Bwnted ta the interests nt the Stelents,
“LABOB OMXIA VINCIT.”
Volume V.	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 27, 1872.	Numbee 21.
Hidden lowers.
The ■world is a grand museum of powers. In the earth are principles of the widest influence, and powers of the greatest force,—some silent as the sparking dew-drop in the chalice of the lovely flower; others loud-toned and fearful as the overwhelming cataract. Every power, whether active or dormant, is hut an echo of omnipotence; yet the greatest of all these is the intellectual creation. Truly, man is God’s noblest work! In him are united all powers, physical, mental and moral. He opens the earth, and it reveals to him the buried history of its creation; he traverses the halls of old ocean, searches the vault of heaven, and discovers their secrets. How wonderful are the powers of the mind!, It can view the world a thousand years hence, and roam through the past until we are transported to the very beginning. The diamond possesses a value equalled by no other mineral; dressed and polished it is admired and coveted a priceless gem, richest among the sparkling jewels that adorn the monarch’s crown; but it has no real value or intrinsic power,—it is a pebble still, helpless as myriads of its fellows lying in obscurity.
But man is a gem immortal, which, polished and purified, is worthy to be placed among the clustering jewels in the crown which glows upon the brow of our Redeemer. This is the intrinsic value,—a value to be reckoned only by the computations of eternity. He has extrinsic power also ; he is not a mere inert creation, moving on in his appointed course, but intelligent and voluntary, moving among others, forming characters and shaping destinies. He may be doing his work as quietly, and perhaps as unconsciously, as some of the powers that are treasured in the bosom of the earth, but doing the work just as surely. It is a law of science that there is never an effect without a cause, and it is equally as true that there is never a cause without an effect. Knowing that an act of ours, or a thought dropped from the lip or pen, may influence perhaps souls unborn, should we not search most diligently for the true powers with which we have been endowed? And, in searching for these, let us not overlook that one which enables us to embolden to action those noble powers which are hidden in the innermost hearts of all.
Mere acquirements will not accomplish this work. The highly-wrought Damascus blade may glitter unproved and in idleness, while many an ungolished sword has been burnished into unfading brightness while striking for freedom. Acquirements and cultivation cannot be too highly prized, yet neither these nor genius will be of value unless, under the control of common sense and a generous heart, they contribute to a worthy end. To be simply a bundle of negatives, a receptacle of passive virtue, a repcllant of vice, is not enough; it requires an active, aggressive power, throttling vice wherever it is found, and rousing into action every waning virtue. The union of the passive and active elements forms the true power. To this must be added faith; faith in God, faith in self, and faith in humanity. He who starts
out in life without faith in God, lacks the key to true life, inward and outward, and has missed the portal of the grand temple of truth erected by God Himself, adorned with the rarest gems of the Infinite Mind, and hung with the richest drapery of His love. Next to faith in God is faith in self— we mean a true estimation of self—which invariably leads to humiliation, and without which he would fail to find his appointed place in the great drama of life.	.
Last is faith in humanity. The world contains living souls, divinely made, and united by the silver links of sympathy.
It is this which binds heart to heart and mind to mind. Never from the glittering iceberg of mental superiority look down with a cold eye upon the less fortunate as your rightful prey, but come in contact with the world—live, act and suffer for all; then you will have taken the first step in the grand road of progress. Beautiful jewels bespangle the wayside, wooing us by their scintillations to delve deep; priceless truths are to be exhumed and restored to their settings in the human heart.
Suffering humanity pleads with outstretched hands for aid and consolation. No power, however obscure, but a cause adequate to disclose it has been provided. Shall we bury the one talent we may possess? The earth is a grand studio, we the artists; materials in profusion are everywhere scattered broadcast—left to us the work. Shall we stop short of a master-piece ? No! Let each picture be worthy a frame of God’s eternal love, and a place on the beautiful walls of heaven.
Miss N. Millard.
St. Alary's Academy,
June 22,1871. -
ERIC; or, Little by Little.
A Tale of Roslyn School.
BY FREDERIC W. FARRAR, Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
PART SECOND.
CHAPTER IV.
MR. ROSE AND BRIGSON.
Haro antecedentem scelcstum
Deseruit pede Pcena claudo.—Horace.
After prayers the next morning Dr. Rowlands spoke to his boarders on the previous day’s discovery, and in a few forcible, vivid words, set before them the enormity of the offence. He ended by announcing that the boys who were caught would be birched,—“ except the elder ones, who will bring me one hundred lines every hour of the half-holidays till further notice. There are some,” he said, “ I am well aware, who, though present yesterday, were not detected. I am sorry for it for their sakes; they will be more likely to sin again. In cases like this, punishment is a blessing, and impunity a burden.” On leaving the room he bade Eric follow him into his study. Eric obeyed, and stood before the head master with downcast eyes.
“ Williams,” he said, “ I have had a great regard for you, and felt a deep interest in you from the day I first saw yon, and knew your excellent, parents. At one time I had conceived great hopes of your future course, and your abilities seemed likely to blossom into noble fruit. But you fell off greatly, and grew idle and careless. At last an event happened, in which for a time you acted worthily of yourself, and which seemed to arouse you from your negligence and indifference. All my hopes in you revived; but as I continued to watch your cour-e (more closely perhaps than you supposed), I observed with pain that those hopes must be again disappointed. It needs but a glance at your countenance to be sure that you are not so upright or right-minded a boy as you were two years ago. I can judge ouly from your outward course; but I deeply fear, Williams—I deeply fear that in other respects also you are going the downhill road. And what am I to think now, when, on the same morning, you and your little brother both come before me for such serious and heavy faults? I cannot free you from blame even for his misdoings, for you are his natural guardian here; I am only glad that you were not involved with him in that charge.”
“Let me bear the punishment, sir, instead of him,” said Eric, by a sudden impulse; “for I misled him, and was there myself”
Dr. Rowlands paced the room in deep sorrow. •‘You, Williams! on the verge of the sixth form. Alas! I fear, from this, that the state of things among you is even worse than I had supposed.”
Eric again hung his head.
“No; you have confessed the sin voluntarily, and therefore at present I shall not notice it; only let me entreat you to beware. But I must turn to the other matter. What excuse have you for your intolerable conduct to Mr. Rose, who, as I know, has shown you from the first the most unusual and disinterested kindness!”
“ I cannot defend myself, sir. I was excited, and could not control my passion.”
“Then you must sit down here, and write an apology, which I shall make you read aloud before the whole school at twelve to-day.”
Eric, with trembling hand, wrote his apology, and Dr. Rowlands glanced at it “ That will do,” he said; “ I am glad you take a right view of the matter. Come to me again at twelve.”
At twelve all the school were assembled, and Eric, pale and miserable, followed the Doctor into the great school-room. The masters stood at one end of the room, and among them Mr. Rose, who, however, appeared an indifferent and uninterested spectator of the transaction. Every-glance was fixed on Eric, and every one pitied him.
“ We are assembled,” said Dr. Rowlands, “ for an act of justice. One of your number has insulted a master publicly, and is ashamed of his conduct, and has himself written the apology which he will read. I had intended to add a still severer punishment, but Mr. Rose has earnestly begged me not to do so, and I have succumbed to his wishes. Williams, read your apology.”
There was a dead hush, and Eric tried once or twice in vain to utter a word. At last, by a- '
/
2	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
spasmodic effort, he regained his voice, and read hut in so low and nervous a tone, that not even those nearest him heard what he was saying.
Dr. Rowlands took the paper from him. “ Owing,” he said, “ to a very natural aud pardonable emotion, the apology has been read in such a way that you could not have understood it. I will therefore read it myself. It is to this effect:
“ * I, Eric Williams, beg humbly and sincerely to apologize for my passionate and ungrateful insult to Mr. Rose.’
“ You will understand that he was left quite free to choose his own expressions; and as he has ac-nowledged his shame and compunction for the act, I trust that none of you will be tempted to elevate him into a hero for a folly which he himself so much regrets. This affair—as I should wish all bad deeds to be after they have once been punished—will now be forgiven, and I hope forgotten.”
They left the room and dispersed, and Eric fancied that all shunned and looked coldly on his degradation. But not so: Montagu came, and taking his arm in the old friendly way, went a walk with him. It was a constrained and silent walk, and they were both glad when it was over, although Montagu did all he could to show that he loved Eric no less than before. Still it was weeks since they had been much together, and they had far fewer things in common now than they used to have before. Eric’s sprightliness, once the delight of all his friends, was now rarely exhibited, except in the company of Wildney and Graham.
“Fin so wretched Monty,” said Eric at last; “ do you thiuk Rose despises me ?"
“I am sure of the contrary. Won’t you go to him, Eric, and say all you feel ?”
“Heigh ho! I shall never get right again. Oh to recover the last two years!”
“You can redeem them, Eric, by a nobler present. Let the same words comfort you that have often brought hope to me—' I will restore the years which the locust hath eaten.’ ”
They reached the school-door, and Eric went straight to the library. Mr. Rose was there alone. He received him kindly, as usual, and Eric went up to the fire-place where he was standing. They had often stood by that library fire on far different terms.
“Forgive me sir,” was all Eric could say, as the tears rushed to his eyes.
“Freely, my boy,” said Mr. Rose sadly. “I wish you could feel how fully I forgive yon; but,” he added, laying his hand for the last time on Erie’s head, “ you have far more, Eric, to forgive yourself I will not talk to you, Eric; it would be little good, I fear; but you little know how much I pity and tremble for you.”
While these scenes were being enacted with Eric a large group was collected round the fire-place in the hoarders’ room, and many tongues were loudly discussing the recent events.
Alas for gratitude: there was not a boy In that group to whom Mr. Rose had not done many an act of kindness; and to most of them far more than they ever knew. Many a weary hour had he toiled for them in private, when his weak frame was harassed by suffering; many a sleepless night had he wrestled for them in prayer, when for their sakes, his own many troubles were laid aside. Work on Walter Rise, and He whoseeth in secret will reward you openly! but expect no gratitude from those for whose salvation you, like the great tender-hearted apostle, would almost be ready to wish yourself accursed.
Nearly every one in that noisy group was abusing Mr. Rose. It had long been Brigson’s cue to do so; he derided him on every opportunity, and delighted to represent him as hypocritical and insincere. Even his weak health was the subject of Brigson’s coarse ridicule, and the bad boy paid in deep hatred the natural tribute which vice must ever accord to excellence.
" You see how he turns on his pets if they offend him,” said Brigson; “why even that old beast Gordon isn’t as bad.”
“Yes; while poor Eric was reading, Rose reminded me of Milton’s serpent,” observed Ball, sententiously:
“ Hope elevates, and joy Brightens his crest.”
“He-e-ar! he-e-ar!” said Pietrie; “side the last fifth form Rep.”
“ I expect Eric won’t see everything so much couleur de rose now, as the French frog hath it,” remarked Graham.
“ Turn him out for his bad pun,” said Wildney.
“ That means you’re jealous of it, old fellow,” answered Graham.
“ I can’t say either you or he rose in my estimation in consequence,” said Wildney, chuckling, as he dodged away to escape Graham’s pursuit.
“It was too bad to stand by and triumph, certainly,” observed Llewellyn.
“ I .say, you fellows,” remonstrated the sober little Wright, who, with Veruon, was sitting reading a book at one of the desks, “ all that isn’t fair. I’m sure you all saw how really sorry Rose looked about it; and he said, you know, that it was merely for the sake of school discipline that he put the matter in Rowlands’ hands.”
“Discipline be hanged,” shouted Brigson; “ we’ll have our revenge on him yet, discipline or no.”
“I hope you won’t though,” said Vernon; “I know Eric will be sorry if you do.”
■ “ The more muff he. We shall do as we like.”
“ Well, I shall tell him; and I’m sure he’ll ask you not. You know how often he tries to stick up for Rose.”
“If you say a word more,” said Brigson, unaccustomed to being opposed among his knot of courtiers, “ Til kick you out of the room; you and that wretched little fool there with you.”
“You may do as you like,” answered Wright, quietly; “ but you wont go on like this long, I can tell you.”
Brigson tried to seize him, but failing, contented himself with flinging a big coal at him as he ran out of the room, which narrowly missed his •head.
“ I have it!” said Brigson; “ that little donkey’s given me au idea. We’Jl crust Rose to-night.”
“ To crust,” gentle reader, means to pelt an obnoxious person with crusts.
“ Capital!” said some of the worst boys present; “ we will.”
“ Well, who’ll take part?”
No one offered. “What! are we all turning sneaks and cowards! Here, Wildney, won’t you? you were abusing Rose just now.”
“Yes, I will,” said Wildney, but with no great alacrity. “ You’ll not have done till you’ve got us all expelled, I believe.”
“Fiddle-stick end! and what if we are? besides, he can’t expel half the school.”
First two or three more offered, and then a whole lot, gaining courage by numbers. So the plot was regularly laid. Pietrie and Graham were to put out the lights at each end of one table immediately after tea, and Wildney and Booking at the other, when the study fellows had gone out. There would then be only Mr. Rose’s candle burning, and the two middle candles, which in so large a room, would just give enough light for their purpose. Then all the conspirators were to throng around the door, and from it aim their crusts at Mr. Rose’s head. Not nearly so many would have volunteered to join, but that they fancied Mr. Rose was too gentle to take up the matter with vigor, and they were encouraged in their project by his quiet leniency towards Eric the night before. It was agreed that no study-boy should be told of the intention, lest any of them should interfere.
The hearts of many beat fast at that night as they observed that numbers of boys, instead of eating all their bread, were cutting off the crusts, and breaking them into good-sized bits.
Tea finished, Mr. Rose said grace, and then sat down quietly reading in his desk. The signal agreed on was the (accidental) dropping of a plate by Brigson. The study-boys left the room.
Crash!—down fell a plate on the floor, breaking to pieces in the fall.
Instantly the four candles went out, and there was a hurried movement towards the door, and a murmur of voices.
" Now then,” said Brigson, in a loud whisper; “ what a wretched set you are 1 Here goes!”
The master, surprised at the sudden gloom and confusion, had just looked up, unable to conjecture what was the matter. Brigson’s crust caught him a sharp rap on the forehead as he moved.
In an instant he started up, and ten or twelve more crusts flew by or hit him on the head as he strode out of the desk towards the door. Directly he stirred, there was a rash of boys into the passage, and if he had once lost his judgment or temper, worse harm might have followed. But he did not. Going to the door, he said, “Preparation will be in five minutes; every boy not then iu his place will be punished.”
During that five minutes the servants had cleared away the tea, full of wonder; but Mr. Rose paced up and down the room, taking no notice of any one. Immediately after, all the boys were in their places, with their books open before them, and in the thrilling silence you might have heard a pin drop. Every one felt that Mr. Rose was master of the occasion, and awaited his next step in terrified suspense.
They all perceived how thoroughly they had mistaken their subject. The ringleaders would have given, all they had to be well out of the scrape. Mr. Rose ruled by kindness, but he never suffered his will to be disputed for an instant. He governed with such consummate tact, that they hardly felt it to be government at all, and hence arose their stupid miscalculation. But he felt that the time was now come to assert his paramount authority, and determined to do so at once and for ever.
“ Some of you have mistaken me,” he said, in a voice so strong and stern that it almost startled them. “The silly display of passion in one boy yesterday has led you to presume that you may trifle with me. You are wrong. For Williams’ sake, as a boy who has, or at least once had, something noble in him, I left that matter in the Doctor’s hands. I shall not do so to-night. Which of you put out the candles?”
Dead silence. A pause.
“ Which of you had the audacity to throw pieces of bread at me ?”
Still silence.
“ I warn you that I will know, and it will be far w’orse for all the guilty if I do not know at once.” There was unmistakable decision in the tone.
“ Very well. I know many boys who were not guilty, because I saw them in parts of the room where to throw was impossible. I shall now ask all the rest, one by one, if they took any part in this. And beware of telling me a lie.”	'
There was an uneasy sensation in the room, and several boys began to whisper aloud, “ Brigson! Brigson!” The whisper grew louder, and Mr. Rose heard it. He turned on Brigson like a lion, and said:
“ They call your name; stand out!”
The awkward, big, ungainly boy, with his repulsive countenance, shambled out of his place into the middle of the room. Mr. Rose swepthim with one flashing glance. “ That is the boy,” thought he to himself, “ who has been like -an ulcer to this school. These boys shall have a good look at their hero.” It was but recently that Mr. Rose knew all
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
S
the harm which Brigson had been doing, though he had discovered, almost from the first, what sort of character he had.
So Brigson stood out in the room, and as they looked at him, many a boy cursed him in their hearts for evil taught them, such as a lifetime’s struggle could not unteach. And it was that fellow, that stupid, clumsy, base compound of meanness and malice, that had ruled like a king among them. Faugh 1
“ They call your name. Do you know anything of this?”
“No!” said Brigson: “I’ll swear I’d nothing to do with it”
“ Oh-h-h-h!”—the long, intense, deep-drawn expression of disgust and contempt ran round the room.
“You have told me a lie!” said Mr. Rose, slowly, and with ineffable contempt. “No words can express my loathing for your false, and dishonorable conduct. Nor shall your lie save you, as you shall find immediately. Still you shall escape if you can or dare to deny it again. I repeat my question— "Were you engaged in this?”
He fixed his full, piercing eye on the culprit, whom it seemed to scorch and wither. Brigson winced back, and said nothing. “Asi thought,” said Mr. Rose.
“ Not one boy only, but many were engaged. I shall call you up one by one to answer me. AVild-ney, come here.”
The boy walked in front of the desk.
“ "Were you one of those who threw?”
AVildney, full as he was of dangerous and deadly faults, was no coward, and not a liar. He knew, or at least feared, that this new scrape might be fatal to him, but raising his dark and glistening eyes to Mr. Rose, he said penitently:
“ I didn’t throw, sir, but I did put out one of the candles that it might be done.”
The contrast with Brigson was very great; the dark cloud hung a little less darkly on Mr. Rose’s forehead, and there was a very faint murmur of applause.
“ Good! stand back. Pietrie, come up.”
Pietrie, too, confessed, and indeed all the rest of the plotters except Booking. Mr. Rose’s lip curled with scorn as he heard the exclamation which his denial caused; but he suffered him to sit down.
When Wright’s turn came to be asked, Mr. Rose said—u No! I shall not even ask you, Wright I know well that your character is too good to be involved in such an attempt.”
The boy bowed humbly, and sat down. Among the last questioned was Vernon Williams, and Mr. Rose seemed anxious for his answer.
“ No,” he said at once,—and seemed to wish to add something.
“ Go on,” said Mr. Rose, encouragingly.
“ Oh, sir! I only wanted to say that I hope you won’t think Eric knew of this. He would have hated it, sir, more even than I do.”
“ Good,” said Mr. Rose; “lam sure of it. And now,” turning to the offenders, “I shall teach you ‘never to dare again to be guilty of such presumption and wickedness as to-night. I shall punish you according to my notion of your degrees of guilt. Brigson, bring me a cane from that desk.”
He brought it.	•
“ Hold out your hand.”
The cane fell, and instantly spilt up from top to bottom. Mr. Rose looked at it, for it was new that morning.
“Ha! I see; more mischief; there is a hair in it.”
The boys were too much frightened to smile at the complete success of the trick.
“ Who did this ? I must be told at once.”
“I"did, sir,” said Wildney, stepping forward.
“ Ha! very well,” said Mr. Rose, while, in spite of his anger, a smile hovered at the comer of his
lips. “ Go and borrow me a cane from Mr. Harley.”
While he went there was unbroken silence.
“Now, sir,” said he to Brigson, “I shall flog you.”
Corporal punishment was avoided with the bigger boys, and Brigson had never undergone it before. At the first stroke he writhed and yelled; at the second he retreated, twisting like a serpent, and blubbering like a baby; at the third he flung himself on his knees, and, as the strokes fell fast, clasped Mr. Rose’s arm, and implored and besought for mercy.
“Huerable coward,” said Mr. Rose, throwing into the word such wringing scorn that no one who heard it ever forgot it. He indignantly shook the boy off, and caned him till he rolled on the floor, losing every particle of self-control, and calling out, “The devil—the devil—the devil!” (“invoking his patron saint,” us AVildney maliciously observed).
“There! cease to blaspheme, and get up,” said the master, blowing out a cloud of fiery indignation. “ There, sir. Retribution comes at last, leaden-footed but iron-handed. A long catalogue of sins is visited on you to-day, and not only on your shrinking body, but on your conscience too, if you have one left. Let those red marks be token that your reign is ended. Liar and tempter, you have led boys into the Sins which you then meanly deny! And now, you boys, Mere in that coward, who cannot even endure his richly-merited punishment, see the boy whom you have suffered to be your leader for well-nigh six months!”
“ Now, sir”—again he turned upon Brigson— “ that flogging shall be repeated with interest on your next offence. At present you will take each boy on your back while I cane him. It is fit that they should see where you lead them to.”
Trembling violently, and cowed beyond description, he did as he was bid. No other boy cried, or even winced; a few sharp cuts was all which Mr. Rose gave them, and even they grew fewer each time, for he was tired, and displeased to be an executioner.
“ And now,” he said, “ since that disgusting but necessary scene is over, never let me have to repeat it again.” But his authority was established like a rock from that night forward. No one ever ventured to dispute it again, or forgot that evening. Mr. Rose’s noble moral influence gained tenfold strength from the respect and wholesome fear that he then inspired.
But, as he said, Brigson’s reign was over. Looks of the most unmitigated disgust and contempt were darted at him, as he sat alone and shunned at the end of the table; and the boys seemed now to loathe and nauseate the golden calf they had been worshipping. He had not done blubbering even yet, when the prayer-bell rang. No sooner had Mr. Rose left the room than AVildney, his dark eyes sparkling with rage, leaped on the table, and shouted:
“ Three groans, hoots, and hisses for a liar and a coward,” a sign of execration which he was the first to lead off, and which the boys echoed like a storm.
Astonished at the tumult, Mr. Rose reappeared at the door. “ Oh, we’re not hissing you, sir,” said AVildney excitedly; “ we’re all hissing at lying and cowardice.”
Mr. Rose thought the revulsion of feeling might do good, and he was striding out again without a word when:	■
“Three times three for Mr. Rose,” sang out AVildney.
Never did a more hearty or spontaneous cheer burst from the lips and lungs of fifty boys than that The news had spread like wildfire to the studies, and the other boys came flocking in during the uproar, to join in it heartily. Cheer after cheer rang out like a sound of silver clarions from the <
Al
' clear boy-voices; and in the midst of the excited throng stood Eric and Montagu, side by side, hurrahing more lustily than all the rest.
But Mr. Bose, in the library, was on his knees, with moving lips and lifted hands. He coveted the popular applause os little as he had dreaded the popular opposition; and the evening’s painful experiences had taught him anew the bitter lesion to expect no gratitude, and hope for no reward, but simply, and contentedly, and unmurmuringly, to work on in God’s vineyard so long as life and health should last
Brigson’s brazen forehead bore him through the disgrace which would have crusht d another. But still he felt that his position at Roslyn could never be what it had been before, and he therefore determined to leave at once. By grossly calumniating the school, he got his father to remove him, and announced, to every one’s great delight, that he was going in a fortnight. On his last day, by way of bravado, he smashed and damaged as much of the school property as he could, a proceeding which failed to gain him any admiration, and merely put his father to ruinous expense.
The day after his exposure Eric had cut him dead, without the least pretence of concealment; an example pretty generally followed throughout the school.
In the evening Brigson went up to" Eric and hissed in his ear, “You cut me, curse you; but, never fear, TH be revenged on you yet.”
“Do your worst,” answered Eric contemptuously ; “ and never speak to me again.”
A Distinguished Catholic Naturalist.
Father Armand David, a French Lazarist Missionary Father in China, and a worthy successor of Hue and Gabet, is one of the most indefatigable of living naturalists. During his many years residence in Pekin, he studied the fauna of the surrounding country, then but little known, and supplied the Jardin des Plantes at Paris with many interesting novelties. Among them was a species of deer with singular horns and a long tail, which has been named the Flapliures Daviaianus, after ita discoverer.
Seeing some new and beautiful pheasants that came from Thibet, sent by Bishop Cheauveau, another Catholic Missionary, he was led to extend his researches into that country so rich in zoological specimens. "While exploring Mauphin, a part of the Celestial Empire, he made a collection of mammalia, birds and reptiles, seldom equalled for extent and variety. There were thirty new species of birds; among them a Passerine, with only three toes. He also found a long-haired monkey, with an unusual development of the nasal organ, and discovered many novelties in the rodent and insectiverous orders, as well as among reptiles and batrachians. Among them was a gigantic aquatic salamander, distinct from the Sieboldia maxima of Japan. P6re David recently returned to France to work out results of his assiduous labors. Thus we see the Catholic missionary of to-day, like the early Jesuit missionaries of South America and the East, who distinguished themselves by able contributionii which they made to many branches of natural science, is adding to our knowledge of nature, at ■ ’ the same time that he labors for the conversion of the heathen.
Pertinent and Impertinent.—A demonlooking chap hailed a charcoal peddler with the query, “Have you got charcoal in your wagon J” “Yes, sir,” said the expectant driver, stopping hia horses. “ That’s right said the demure chap, with an approving nod; “ always tell the truth, and people will respect you 1” and he hurried on, much to the regret of the peddler, who was getting cut of his wagon to look for a brick.—Danbury SitM,
r
4	KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editors Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
One year.................................$200
Single copies (10c) of the publication can bo obtained at the Students' Office.
The bulletins will be sent home next week.
The surveying class will commence early in February.
A class of Hebrew may be taught, should there be any applications.
The written examination in Christian Doctrine will take place on Sunday morning.
The St. Edward’s Literary Association will hold a public moot court on the 12th of March.
The promotions and various changes which occur in the classes at the end of the session will be published next week.
Rev. L. Neyrox will resume giving his lessons in anatomy at the beginning of the second session. The class will be taught from ten to twelve, A IL
lx additition to the drama of “Damon and Pythiasf the Thespian Association will, on the 22nd of February, play the farce entitled “ The Irish Tutor.”
We are glad to hear that quite a number of old friends are returning to Notre Dame for the second session. For the earnest student there is not a better place than old Notre Dame.
“ The Pope’s Brigade ” is the name of a new play from the pen of the talented Mariaphilos. It is intended for the St. Cecilians. We will speak of it at length at the proper time; suffice it to say that it is worthy of the genius of its author. If nothing prevents it will be represented in May.
A concert will be given by the instrumental and vocal departments of music on the evening of the 31st inst. We expect a great grand treat. We understand that the vocal class has quite a select programme for the occasion. The orchestra, of course, and our brass band will enliven the exhibition with their beautiful strains. The programme of the evening will be made known in due time.
The second session promises to open under very favorable auspices; among others, a right good will on the part of all to do in five months the work of a whole year. We have heard from Professors, who are good judges, that during the last three weeks of this session more matters have been studied, a better application manifested throughout the College than during the two months that preceded the holidaj’S. What may not good will accomplish?
The lecture on “ Good English,” delivered one week ago last Thursday, by Prof. T. E. Howard, was a fine illustration of the subject it purported to treat o£ The style of the Professor, simple, yet rich and elegant, has a charm upon the ear of the listener. The originality of thought, and masterly treatment of the subject, render the lectures of the Professor a very pleasing treat. We hope to have the pleasure of listening to several others of his lectures on the same subject.
“La Dame Blanche,” the beautiful opera, the master-piece of Boieldieu, was represented last
year, and in great part sung, by the St. Cecilia Philomatheans, assisted by the Philharmonics, under Prof. Corby’s direction. This year Fra Diatolo, by Auber, will probably be given in May, that is if the principal parts can be filled by good singers. Of course, the plot will have to be somewhat remodelled. Prof. J. Regniers will commence the rehearsal of the principal parts as soon there is a certainty that the representation can be made successful.
An Explanation. .
A certain number of our young readers, it appears, have misunderstood some of our words in the last article on the Notre Dame Choir, in which we stated that, rather than abolish the St. Gregoiy’s Society, we would be disposed to reconstruct it with new members should the present ones be unwilling to continue their membership. They have read these words as if they conveyed the idea that we did not care for the present members. Now, we protest against this interpretation, and positively declare that we wrote thus rather to encourage them and warn them not to credit the reports then circulating to the effect that the Society was about to be abolished; for we were determined to maintain the St Gregory’s Society at any cost, and we meant that, if necessary, we would bring in members of the Community willing and able to sustain us, and thus continue with them the Society. But we had no reason to apprehend that the present members would desert us, as their constant fidelity in the past is a sufficient guarantee of perseverance for the future.
But to remove every shadow of misunderstanding in this matter, we beg our young readers to peruse attentively the following lines.
A Choir is essentially an ecclesiastical institution. Its members may be laymen, as is frequently the case; but the respective pastor or the ecclesiastical Superior is responsible before God for the proceedings and conduct of the Choir. His duty is to see that both the chant and the exterior behavior of the singers be always according to the spirit of the Church. Now, the better to secure this important object, the pastor may select a certain number of persons animated with the same spirit, and form with them a Society, the object of which is to foster and secure the observance of the laws of the Church respecting Church music and the duties of singers. Such Societies exist in Europe, and particularly in Rome, where we find the celebrated Society of St. Cecilia, under the presidency of a Cardinal In our modest efforts we have established here a Society of this kind by making an Association of the members of the Choir, in the hope of being the better able to instill our own spirit in their mind, and thus make them all our faithful cooperators in the great work we have in view.
There is another item which also needs some explanation. Our Choristers are requested to wear the clerical dress. Why not ? Are not our Acolytes requested to do the same? Is there such a great difference between Acolytes and Choristers? Both fulfil in the Church the office of clergymen, whose associates they are in the most important functions of the sacred liturgy. Hence, in Italy, in France, and, I suppose, in every Catholic country, regular singers in the church wear the clerical dress. Owing to the present organization of Choirs in this country, this is not the common practice; but it seems to us that nothing could prevent it from being introduced in Colleges when the members of the Choir are exclusively the Students themselves. We are well aware of the objection raised against this practice; but we do not consider it worthy of an answer. We are simply surprised to find young men ob
jecting to the clerical dress in the church, its proper place, whilst the same would willingly put on the same dress on the stage if the nature of the drama seemed to require it.
In the eyes of faith it is an honor truly enviable, which our forefathers duly appreciated. Hence, in the ages of faith, illustrious personages coveted this honor. Powerful monarchs, laying aside the royal apparel, were seen clad in the modest garb of clerics singing in the choir the praise of God. Our age, we know well, is not an age of faith, but as truth never changes, our sublime mysteries, ever sacred, ever holy, must be surrounded by all possible marks of honor. We maintain, therefore, the rule we have made after mature consideration. But, for reasons of which we are the best judge, we make an exception in favor of the few honorary members of the choir, desiring, at the same time, that they also would conform to the common regu lation.
Oral Examination.
January 26, 27, 29, 30.
Very Rev. W. Corby, S.S.C., President and General Supervisor.
CLASSICAL BOARD.
Rev. A. Lemonuier, S.S.C., presiding.
Rev. F. Condon, S.S.C.
Rev. John Lautb, S S.C.
Rev. J. O’Connell, S.S.C.
Prof. J. A Lyons, A. HL
Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M., Secretary.
Mr. D. Tighe, S.S.C.
SCIENTIFIC board.
Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C.
Rev. T. Vagnier, S.S.C.
Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M.
Prof. W. Ivers, A M.
Prof. D. A. Clarke, B. S., Secretary.
Bro. Gabriel, S.S.C.
BOARD OF LANGUAGES.
Rev. A. Lemonnier, S.S.C.
Rev. J. Lautb, S.S.C.
Prof. M. A J. Baasen, A M., Secretary.
Prof. Deioulme.
Bro. Maurice, S.S.C.
COMMERCIAL BOARD.
Very Rev. W. Corby, S.S.C., presiding.
Prof. L. G. Tong, M. S.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.
Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M.
Prof. W. Ivers, A. M., Secretary.
Rev. J. O’Rourke.
Bro. Camillus, S.S.C.
Prof. D. A Clarke, B. S.
ENGLISH BOARD.
Rev. M. T. Calovin, S.S.C., presiding.
Rev. J. O’Rourke.
Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C.
Mr. F. C. Bigelow, S.S.C., Secretary.
Bro. Albert, S.S.C.	,
Bro. Emmanuel, S.S.C.
Bro. Marcellinus, S.S.C.
Bro. Maurice, S.S.C.
minims’ board.
Mr. F. C. Bigelow, S.S.C., presiding.
Bro. Emmanuel, S.S.C.
Bro. Albert, S.S.C.
Bro. Maurice, S.S.C.
Honorable Mention.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
Fourth Year—hl. Carr, T. Ireland, M. Keeley, J. Shannahan, M. Mahony, J. McHugh. -
Third Year—M. Foote, D. Hogan. *
Second Year—P. J. White.	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
First Year—W. Clarke, F. Chamberlain, C. Dodge, J. Walsh, L. Hayes, D. Malony.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
Fourth Year—N. S. Mitchell, T. F. O’Mahony.
Second, Year—R J. Curran, T. Dundon, George W. Darr, J. D. McCormack, P. O’Connell, H. W. Walker.
First Year—F. P. Leffiugwell, P. J, Murphy.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Second Year—T. Ireland, R. Staley, O. Wing, J. Crummey, .1. E. Carr, R. Lange, F. McOsker, L. McOsker, E. Newton, F. Obert, B. Roberts, George Riopelle, J. Stubbs, J. Spillard, J. Wuest, J. Ward, C. Hutchings.
First Year—J. Bowen, E. M. Barry, V. Bacca, H. Dehner, J, Darmody, C. W. Dulaney, C. H. Hodgson, T. A Philips, J. Poundstone, James Stinson, J. D. Smarr, Joseph Zimmer, C. Anderson, S. Ashton, L., Godefroy, E. Olwill, J. L. Noonan, W. Kelly, F. Phalon, J. Quill, O. Waterman, J. D. Waters, H. Waldorf.
FIRST PREPARATORY.
Second Tear—M. Bastorache, M. Foley, James Hogan, P. O’Meara, J. Rourke, F. Arantz, W. Campbell, A Dickerhoff, E. Sheehan, B. Hughes.
First Year (First Division)—J. Devine, E. Graves, T. Renshaw, G. Wirthlin, H. Beckman, F. Devoto, J. Dunne, T. Garrity, H. Heckert, J. Hoffman, L. Hibben, E. Howland, G. Kurt, A. Klein, V. McKinnon, W. Myers, J. McMahon, W. Nelson, E. Plummer, E. Roberts, H. Shephard, M. Weldon, J. F. Wernert, C. W. Goit, W. R. Goit, J. C. Howe.
First Tear (Second Division)—J. Comer, F. Carlin, B. Drake, W. Easton, T. Hansard, M. Fitzgerald, J. Kenney, J. Karst, W. Gaar, P. Logue, E. Asher, E. Kaiser, H. Angeldron, J. C. Birdsei], H. Bennett, J. Dore, S. Baldez, J. Danz, H. Enne-king, E. Edwards, P. Hennessy, E. Halpin, H. Hoffman, J. Juif, C. M. Karst, J. Kauffman, W. Kelly, G. Roulhac, F. Livingston, E. Milburn, E. Marshall, W. Murphy, D. O’Connell, W. Olhen, T. O’Neil, W. Quinlan, A Schmidt, T. Stubbs, F. Smith, W. Austin, E. Charais.
Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
January 19.—T. Dundon, T. Irelahd, J. Shanahan,^-. Wernert, N. Mitchell, J. Watery T. Renshaw, J. Stinson, L. Godfroy, E. Graves.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
H. Shephard, J. Caren, D. Kaiser, H. Beckman, E. Halpin, W. Lucas, L. McOsker, C. Dodge, B. Roberts, E. Roberts.
D. A. C., Sec.
Literary Entertainment.
Messrs. Editors Scholastic:—Genuine labor ever begets a relish for true relaxation, which is enjoyed only by him who is conscious of having merited it by exertions inflexibly tending to the purpose whose attainment is desired. This proposition is true, and founded upon facts undeniably strong, not only in the physical life and toil incident to human existence, but also is well based in the intellectual superstructure reared by repeated efforts and labors. Acknowledging these stubborn facts of past ages, the Students of the University have ever endeavored not only themselves to enjoy the various and several season of relaxation and short interruptions of their studies, but mindful of their friendsand instructors whose incessant labors require something that may for a time divert thought from the monotonous channel characteristic of a Professor’s life—have sought to amuse and entertain them also, by giving, from time to time, histrionic exhibitions, musical soirees,
etc., in all of which they have entertained and pleased their friends, and given proof of mental powers of an order by no means mediocre.
We question, however, if any exhibition has been given of late that gave more pleasure to the happy inmates of Notre Dame and its environs, or was more creditable to the paticipators than the Literary Soiree given by the members of St. Edward’s Literary Association in the Grand Parlor of the University on the evening of the 16th.
The programme was as follows: Music...........................Orchestra
Essay, “ Beauty of the Christian Religion” J. McGahan Declamation—“The Downfall of Poland.”..T. Murphy Essay—“ Wonders of the Telescope”..J. Smarr Declamation—“ The Fire Worshippers ”... .T. Watson Music..............................Orchestra
Debate—Subject: Resolved, That the hope of reward is a greater incentive to exertion than the fear of punishment.
Affirmative.
Negative...
Music........
M. H. Keeley, W. J. Clarke.
T. F. O’Mahony, N. S. Mitchell.
.......Orchestra
Like on all similar occasions, nothing but praise can be said relative to the excellent music rendered by the renowned Orchestra of Notre Dame, and on this occasion it fully sustained its well-earned and envied reputation.
The essay, on the “Beauty of the Christian Religion,” by Mr. J. McGahan. was well chosen, well composed, and exhibited in fine, chaste periods, the beauty, the refining nature, the ennobling virtues, and the elevating influence of Our Holy Religion. It was creditable alike to the spirited author and the subject.
The declamations, “ The Downfall of Poland,” and “The Fire Worshippers,” by Mr. Thomas Murphy and Sir. Thomas Watson respectively, were all that the most fastidious could desire, reflecting credit on the deciaimers, and exhibiting their truly excellent power of adapting the intonation of voice and gesture to the sublime sentiments expressed by their lips.
The essay, “ Wonders of the Telescope,” by M1 J. Smarr, was good and pleasing, which was evi denced by the continued laughing approbation o the audience whilst Mr. Smarr recounted, in a humorous style, his fancied trip to the regions of the Queen of Night.
The event of the evening’s entertainment was the debate,—we say advisedly the event, not that the other parts of the programme were not good— nay, excellent and highly entertaining,—but because the debate was looked for as the crown of what had preceded, and, indeed, those who so looked saw, and were not disappointed, for it was a rich treat to all who can enjoy and appreciate an exciting, instructive literary contest. Both time and ability prevent us, even if we were so minded, from expressing all we think about the truly masterly effort of the respective young gentlemen engaged in the discussion. Suffice it to say that it was a gem of the kind. Consequently, criticism by feeble us would only tend to mar and obscure the beauties, the soul-stirring pathos, chaste expressions and depths of the power of eloquence divine as used by the debaters of the evening. The question for discussion was the following:
Resolved, That the hope of reward is a greater incentive to exertion than the fear of punishment.
Affirmative, Messrs. Keeley and Clarke; negative, Messrs. O’Mahony and Mitchell.
Mr. Keeley maintained the affirmative of the question in a speech of considerable length, in which he must have surprised and delighted his most sanguine friends and admirers. We unhesitatingly say that his speech would have done honor, yes, honor, to any orator of the land; unquestionably it was a master-piece of eloquence, at times impassionately expressed. Mr. Keeley is
beautifully eloquent, and extremely happy in his choice of words, his reasoning is dose and cogent, his arguments keen and difficult of refutation.
He was followed on the negative side of- the question by Mr. Thomas O’Mahony, who no sooner reached the speaker’s stand than an involuntary movement among the audience spoke volumes in his favor, and gave a silent, yet deeply convincing proof and an unmistakable index that the Prince of Debaters of the University stood before them-Mr. O'Mahony has an influence, a magnetism, an uncontrollable something about his very being that immediately claims, chains and rivets the attention and sympathies of his audience. Few, very few, possess such power in this respect in as great a degree as he; it is the coveted lever by which the orator sways and influences the minds and hearts of millions. Mr. O’Mahony is a natural orator; in his case at least, it can be truly said, orator non, fit sed nascitur; he is a ready, powerful debater, his language is most excellent and pertinent, his reasoning decisive, and he has the happy faculty of permeating his every thought with a vein of wit and humor, which always has a fearfully telling effi-ct on an opponent. If need were, in scathing, withering sarcasm and rebuke he would be without a peer among his fellows; yet his own innate good nature and always gentlemanly, high-toned bearing prevent him from using this unusual power. It must be admitted, however, that he had need of all his manifold powers to meet his talented and unflinching opponent who had entrenched himself in a formidable stronghold, to remove him from which, required all the stragetical skill, experience and power of Mr. O’Mahony. It would be a very difficult matter to say who was the victor, for both contestants fought, bled and— we were about saying died, so valiantly that discrimination became a task from which the audience prudently abstained. Both gentlemen retired amid the plaudits, delight and encomiums of their auditors. We predict a brilliant future for both these young men.
Messrs. Clarke and Mitchell followed their respective champions in speeches in behalf of their position on the question, which reflected to their honor. Their language was good, excellent and beautiful, their reasoning was pointed and effective. It must be borne in mind that they were much the younger, and that they had to glean a field already harvested by their older and more fortunate leaders. We have said that their language was good and well chosen, their arguments pointed, and yet, they had not the effect upon their hearers that the same words would have had, had they been uttered by Mr. Keeley or Mr. O’Mahony.
From this, the young gentlemen may learn that oratory does not consist solely in words; also that the defect was not in the language used nor in the arguments chosen, but arose from themselves. This defect was in delivery, want of earnestness, (at least, externally expressed,) spirit, animation and gesture. However, they will overcome these defects by experience, age and confidence. They already have abundance of language and a depth of thought; all they need is earnestness and spirit. We trust that these last remarks will be received with the same kindly spirit in which they are given; nothing but charity and the desire to benefit others have prompted their utterance. When you wish to convince, boys, you must have fire in your words; fire, however, is not noise and bombast. It was a pleasing and noticeable feature of the evening that all the young gentlemen were remarkably well self-possessed. No decision was given.
At the dose, the Very Rev. President happily expressed his delight, and that of the audience, at the highly interesting and gratifying entertainment of the evening, indeed, the very air seemed impregnated with oratory and eloquence, which became so infectious that the Very ReT. President
6	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
appeared loth to cease his spontaneous words of praise,—spontaneous because they sprung unbidden from a thankful, grateful, fatherly heart, that was big with emotions from witnessing the creditable and justly praiseworthy display of his children, of whom on this occasion he was rightly and nobly proud.
Thus ended an evening’s pleasure, which had brought entertainment, enjoyment and instruction to all who were so happy and fortunate as to be present All had nothing but praise to bestow on the members of the St Edward’s Literary Association, and expressed their decided wish that similar literary contests would frequently call them together, all of which is heartily endorsed by
Semelustus.
St Aloysius’ Philodomic Association.
After the meeting had been called to order, on the evening of the 23d inst., by the Rev. Director, the lecturer of this evening, Rev. J. O’Rourke, was introduced to the many respected visitors who attended, as well as to the actual members of the Society.
The subject that the Rev. Father had selected was “The Crusades.” He eloquently introduced the same by a cursory glance at the origin and object of Mahometanism. Continuing, he stated the ultimate aim of the Crusades to have been the recovery of the Holy Land, which had fallen into the hands of the Mahometans, who were incessantly committing outrages upon the Christians residing there and visiting Jerusalem. Then, besides ennumerating the principal men that moved in these Crusades, he mentioned the most important battles fought by the Crusaders on their inarch to Jerusalem. He concluded by showing that the principal cause why the Crusaders failed in attaining their object, was the want of union between the armies collected from the different parts of Europe. He also, in conclusion, proved the opinion of many to be erroneous in supposing no salutary effects to have accrued from these same Crusades.
After he had concluded, he received the thanks of all present, and, it is almost unnecessary to add, that to the lecture itself was paid the attention due to it for its consummate excellence, and that the Association will ever gratefully remember the favor which was bestowed upon it this evening by the Rev. Father O’Rourke.
On account of the late hour at which the lecture was concluded, all other exercises were postponed to some other evening, whereupon, on motion, the meeting adjourned. T. A Ireland,
Cor. Sec.
The St. Edward’s.
Now that the St. Edward’s have given to an appreciative public a mere foretaste of whatever skill and power they may possess as inexperienced literary youths and unpretentious logicians, they have again retired into the shade from whence the well-intended hints and importunities of some had unwillingly and unpreparedly summoned them.
Satisfied that the lavish encomiums of those who witnessed their exhibition were not wholly uncalled for, nor unmerited, and thus the best index of their success, they are content to pursue their humble path as formerly, and leave the field open to their younger and elder brothers. We premise these remarks, as intended to convey the idea that the St. Edward’s have not of themselves sought publicity, though theirs is a liberal and public-minded spirit, and that rumor, with her thousand busy tongues, affects them not.
The evening of the 23d witnessed their third tegular meeting for the year 1872. All members promptly reported themselves for duty. The
order of exercises, as usual, was introduced by roll-call, etc., and the transaction of an unusual amount of miscellaneous business, and closed by the essayists of the evening. The essayists have come before the notice of the public recently and I therefore refrain from bestowing any remarks upon their productions. Our reverend President filled the chair with that grace and dignity so peculiarly his own, giving lessons of usefulness, as well as monitions, things which are ever acceptable to the boys of the St. Ed’s. Not wishing to disturb the spM which breathed its influence upon and held enchained our friends across the way, we adjourned a little earlier than is our wont.
' M. Keeley, Cor. Sec.
Thespian Cadets.
The second regular meeting of the Thespian Cadets was held on Tuesday evening, Jan. 24th.
At this meeting the following young gentlemen distinguished themselves by the manner in which they delivered their speeches: J. Porter, A. Morton, H. Faxon, E. DeGroot, P. Gall, A McIntosh.
The following gentlemen were appointed de-claimers for the next regular meeting: B. Beck, J. O’Meara, W. Dee, E. Dasher, E. Raymond, M. Farnbaker, C. Clark. .
Having no other business to transact, the meeting on motion adjourned. T. Nelson,
■ Cor. Sec.
Astronomy.—No. 13.
A SYNOPSIS OF ITS HISTORY.
[concluded]. ,
The erection of this observatory formed an epoch in the history of American astronomy, in consequence of the introduction of instruments superior to any which had hitherto been imported. In the hands of Messrs. Walker and Kendall, this observatory became famous both in America and Europe. The observatory at West Point was erected about the same time as that in Philadelphia ; in 1840 Professor Bartlett visited the principal observatories in Europe, and procured a telescope from Lenebours, of Paris, mounted by Mr. Thomas Grubb, of Dublin. It is a refractor of eight feet focal length and six in aperture. There is also a transit telescope by Ertel and son, of Munich, and a mural circle, by Simms, of London. A refracting telescope by Mr. H. Fitz, of New York, fourteen feet focal length, and nine and three-fourth inches’ aperture has replaced the former one; it has a magnifying power up to 1,000. This instrument cost $5,000.
When in, 1838, Captain Wilkes took the command of the exploring expidition, he recommended that a series of observations should be made during his absence. This was entrusted to Mr. Bond, at Dorchester, and Lieutenant Gilliss. In 1840 Professor Bartlett made a report to the engineering department at Washington on the modem improvements of instruments and construction of observatories. In 1842 Congress voted twenty-five thousand dollars for the erection of a depot of charts and instruments for the navy. Lieutenant Gilliss was instructed to furnish the plans and estimates which were afterwards approved by the most eminent astronomers of Europe. The great refracting telescope was made by Merz and Mahler, of Munich. It has a focal length of fifteen feet, and an aperture of nine and one half inches. It is equatorially mounted and furnished with clockwork. The cost of this telescope was $6,000. It magnifies from 100 to 1,000 times. The object glass alone cost $3,600. The transit instrument was made by Ertel and son, of Munich; it cost $1,480. It has an aperture of five and one-half inches, and eighty-eight inches focal length. The mural cir
cle is five feet in diameter, and was made by Simms, of London; it cost $3,550. It is made of brass, five feet in diameter, in a single piece. The meridian circle was made by Ertel and son, of Munich; its object glass has an aperture of four and one-half inches, and a focal length of fiftyeight inches. The transit in prime verticle was made by Pistor and Martins of Berlin. The object glass has a clear aperture of five inches and a focus of seventy-eight inches. This instrument weighs 1000 pounds, and cost $1,750. The refraction circle is by Ertel and son, from drawings furnished by Lieutenant Mauiy. The telescope is eight and one half feet in length, with an aperture of seven inches. The comet seeker is by Merz and Mahler; it has an object glass of four inches diameter, with a focal length of thirty-two inches; this instrument cost $280.
In the fall of 1843, Lieutenant Maury was put in charge of the new “Depot of Charts and Instruments.”* He commenced a systematic series of observations on the sun, moon and planets, and a list of fundamental stars comprising those of the first magnitude to be used as standard stars. In 1849 the electric clock was introduced into this observatory. This institution now occupies a high rank in the astronomical world.
In 1841 Rev. P. M. Jenkins offered a donation to found an observatory in Georgetown, D. C., and Rev. C. H. Stonestreet offered to supply an equatorial telescope. The buildings were finished in 1844. Through the centre of the building rises a pier of mason work forty-one feet high, on which stands the equatorial, made by Simms of London, which was received in 1849. It has a focal length of eighty inches, and an object glass of five inches, with powers up to 408. It is supplied with clockwork, and cost $2,000. The transit was made by Estel of Munich. It cost $1,180, besides expenses of freight. The meridian circle by Simms of London is a very superior instrument, and cost $2,050. The clock is by Molineux, of London.
The Cincinnati observatory owes its origin to the exertions of Prof. Mitchell. To it $11,000 were subscribed in shares of $25 each, Nicholas Longworth donating four acres of ground for a site.-
In June, 1842, Prof. Mitchel] visited Europe to purchase instruments. At Munich he obtained an object glass of twelve-inch aperture, said to be one of the best ever manufactured. This was purchased for $9,437, and ordered to be mounted. It arrived in 1845. In November the venerable John Quincy Adams laid the first stone of the observatory, it being eighty feet by forty. The telescope has a focal length of 17 feet, with a power of from 100 to 1,400. The hour circle is 16 inches in diameter, and the declination circle 26 inches. Dr. Bache, of the Coast Survey, has kindly donated a five feet transit instrument. Prof. Mitchell has devoted much time to the observation of double stars, and has made many important discoveries with this splendid telescope.
The citizens of Boston, about this time, began to be conscious of being left in the rear by such Western villages as Hudson and Cincinnati, and therefore resolved to carry out the favorite plan of John Quincy Adams. Nathaniel Bowditch and others formed an association to erect and furnish an observatory at Cambridge, Massacusetts. Mr. David Sears subscribed $5,000 to the observatory, and $500 towards the telescope. Another gentleman gave $1,000, eight others gave $500 each, eighteen gave $200 each, and thirty gave $100 each; besides, many gave smaller sums each. The Academy of Arts gave $3,000; another Society, $1,000, and several others gave from $500 each down to $200.
Six and a half acres upon Summerhouse Hill were secured, an admirable location, upon which >
* The reader will please recollect the act of Congress of 1832.	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

was erected a splendid edifice. The “ Grand Refractor ” was made by Merz and Mahler. They bound themselves to make two object glasses of fifteen inches aperture, and equal to the noble instrument in the Russian observatory at Pulkova. The object glasses were selected by Mr. Simms and Mri Crunch, of London. These glasses were received in Cambridge, in December, 1816, and the great tube and mountings, in June, 1847. The telescope has eighteen different powers, of from 103 to 2,000. The hour circle is eighteen inches, and the declination circle is twenty-six iuches in diameter. The movement is regulated by clock-work. The focal length is twenty-two feet, six inches, and the cost of the instrument was $19,842.
The performance of this great telescope gives the fullest satisfaction. It even exceeds that of the Pulkova glass. It was with this glass Mr. Bond discovered the eighth satellite of Saturn. Mr. E. B. Phillips, a graduate of the class of 1845, died in 1848, leaving $100,000 to be invested, the interest to be applied annually towards paying the salaries of the observers, or for the purchase of instruments. We must content ourselves with only naming the other observatory.
Sharon observatory is the private property of Mr. John Jackson. Its equatorial, by Merz and Son of Munich, cost $1,833.
The Tuscaloosa observatory was founded in 1843. Its equatorial was made by Simms, of Lony don, and was received in 1849. Its object glass has an eight-inch aperture,'and focal length of twelve feet, with powers from 44 to 1,640. It cost ^800 sterling, or $3,880.
Mr. Rutherford’s observatory, in New York, is a private establishment. Its refractor was made by Gregg and Rupp, of New York, with a power of 600. The price, when fully mounted, was §2,200.
The Friend’s observatory, in Philadelphia, is also a private one, but Mr. M. F. Longstreth has lately distinguished himself by publishing a set of lunar tables.
Amherst observatory, erected in 1847, has a very good telescope, made by Mr. Alvan Clarke, of Cambridge. Its focal length is eight and a half feet; aperture seven and a quarter inches. It was presented by lion. Rufus Bulloch, and cost §1,800.
The Dartmouth College observatory was chiefly erected through the munificence of the late Mr. G. C. Shattuck, M.D., LL.D., of Boston, who furnished the means. The equatorial is by Merz and Son, with aperture of six inches and focal length of eight aud a half feet, and a power of 940 times. Its expense was: lot and buildings, $4,500, the telescope with clock, $2,300, comet seeker, $180, meridian circle, in London, £275 sterling.
Shelby College, Kentucky^, commenced in 1840, and received its telescope in 1850, at a cost of $3,500.
Mr. Van Arsdale’s observatory, in Newark, New Jersey, was erected in 1850. Its telescope cost $1,125, made by Fitz, of New York.
The Buffalo observatory is the property of Mr. W. S. Van Duzee. Its telescope was made by H. Fitz, New York, 11 feet focus, with a nine-inch aperture. In Mr. Campbell’s observatory, Sixteenth street, New York, the telescope is an achromatic refractor, 10J^ feet focal length, and from 60 to 480 powers.
The Michigan University, at Ann Arbor, is a fine and celebrated institution, and its performances, under able professors, are well known over the Union, and over Europe. The citizens of Detroit upon being appealed to by Dr. Tappan, the Chancellor of the University, promptly subscribed §10,000 in 1852. The great equatorial was made by Mr. Fitz, of New York. The aperture is 12J< inches, with 17 feet focal length. It cost §6,000, the building $7,000; total cost, $17,-000. The telescope has a power of 1,200.
The Albany, New York, observatory was founded in 1853. Gen. S. Van Rensselaer donated the
site, Mrs. Blandina Dudley subscribed $13,030, and several gentlemen raised that sum to $25,000. Mrs. Dudley also procured a heliometer of the largest size. This was made by Mr. C. A Spencer, for $14,500. A gentleman in Albany gave $5,000 for meridian circle; another $1,000 for a clock. The transit cost $1,500. This establishment is expected to rival any in America for fine instruments and usefulness to science.
Hamilton College has got a finely furnished observatory, with a refracting telescope, made by Eaton & Spencer, of Canistoga, New York. The object glass has a diameter of 13}4 inches, with a focal length of 16 feet, and a power of from 100 to 1,000. The price of this fine instrument was $10,000.
The observatory at Chicago has one of the finest telescopes in the world. It is the princely gift of Mr. Clark, of that city. The object glass is 20 inches; the cost was $20,000. It is now engaged in conjunction with many others, in various parts of the world, in forming a chart and catalogue of eveiy star in the heavens, even to the most remote that can be reached by the most powerful instruments ever constructed; each astronomer observes a belt of given width round the starry heavens, a labor so vast that it will require ten years to finish ityZ^ /The observatory here at the University'^ 'Notre Dame, Indiana, occupies a small but very convenient building, located for the present in the front garden. The telescope, a fine refractor, the noble gift of the Emperor Napoleon the HI, to this University, is mounted on a portable stand which rests on a column of masonry passing from the ground up clear through the floor. There is a revolving roof eighteen feet in diameter. The telescope is of seven feet six inches focal length and six inches aperture, with a finder on the top. It has a power of 450. It is placed in the care of Professor T. E. Howard.
There is also a very fine telescope in the grand Parlor of the University, mounted on a tripod stand, made by Mr. M. Solomons, Nassau St, Dublin. It has a focal length of four feet, four inches, with an object glass of four inches, and one terrestrial and two astronomical eye pieces. Saturn’s belt and Jupiter’s moons are well shown, and the hour on a clock from 3 to 4 miles distant easily read.
We have now, with great labor and research, reviewed the history of astronomy from the most remote periods of antiquity. Josephus, the Jewish historian, says that longevity was bestowed upon the antediluvians for the purpose of enabling them to cultivate a science that required six hundred years to become acquainted with. For that period, he adds, “ is the grand year,” at which date all things return to the position from which they started. Doubtless this knowledge passed out of the ark with Noah and his family, and that it extended with the increase of the human race.
M. Bailly, in his history of Astronomy, endeavors to show that this science was known and cultivated in Egypt and Chaldea 2,800 years B. C., in Persia, 3,209, in India, 3,101, in China, 2,952 years before our era, or about 5,000 years ago. We have shown that greater discoveries have been made within the last one hundred and fifty years than had been in all previous time, and that future discoveries are limited only by the powers of the telescope, about which we hope to say something at a future time. We have endeavored to produce a minim Almagest, or an abbreviation and collection of all former knowledge upon the subject. We write for the student and those who are anxious to learn. The mere novel or story reader will pass this by for some sensation article; if we can induce the latter to turn from the evil of his ways and reflect upon the wonders his Creator every night places before his eyes in the starry heavens, we shall have received our reward.
Bro. Peter, ne\ J. F.
SAINT MAST’S A CAD MY.
St. Mary’s Academy, ) January 24, 1872. J
The examination commenced on the 20th in the Musical Department. The examination of the:. English classes will begin on the 26th. The 90th' will be given to the languages. Then will follow . promotions and reorganization of classes.
One extra recreation day will be granted, after which will commence the sharp competition for the highest standing and honors at the close of the session.
It is worthy of remark that only a eery few have shown the least disposition to avoid the test of examination. These certainly lose much by their excessive timidity.
Reports of progress, and promotions in classes, will be forwarded to parents and guardians.
Respectfully, Stylus.
TABLE OF HONOR—SENIOR DEP’T.
January 21.—Misses A Woods, L Wilder, M. Letourneau, E. Culver, J. Walker, H. McLaughlin, A. Hamilton, M. Pinney, A St. Clair, B. Schmidt, L. Buehler, M. Armsby.
honorably mentioned.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Kirwan, M. Shir-sland, M. Toberty, M. Dillon, L. Marshall, A. Clarke, A. Borup, J. Forbes, G. Hurst, H. Tindey, K. McMahon.
First Senior—Misses K. Zell, N. Mast, M. Cochrane, M. Lange, A Shea, A Todd, K. Haymond, M. Lassen, K. Brown, B. Crowley.
Second Senior—Misses L. Duffield, N. Duffield, E. Plamondon, L Reynolds^ V. Ball, F. Butters, A Piatt, E. Rollins, L. West, J. Coffey, J. Millis, D. Greene, C. Woods, R. Spiers, I. Logan, H. Tomp-king
Third Senior—Misses A. Lloyd, R. Nelson, M. Prince, R. Devoto, S. Johnson, B. Reynolds, L Edwards, M. Leonard, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, T. Donahue, C. Davis.
First Preparatory—Misses A Emmonds, M. McIntyre, N. Sullivan, C. Latta, J. Walsh, B. Gafihey.
Second Preparatory—Misses M. Mooney, N. Conahan, F. Moore, J. Judy, A McLaughlin, R. McIntyre, M. Goodbody, D. Willey, L. Eutzler,M. Kelly, L. Brandenburg, E. Wade, B. Wade.
Third Preparatory—Misses A Hunt, B. McCarthy, K. Miller, J. Hupp, L. Pfeiffer, E. Drake, J. Valdors, R. Manzanaures, N. Vigil, C. Germain, M-McNellis.
First French—Misses M. Shetland, J. Forbes, L. Marshall, G. Hurst, H. Tinsley, M. Kirwan, A Borup, R. Spiers, M. Toberty, M. Qunn, A Clarke, N. Gross,
Second French—Misses M. Cochrane, M. Letourneau, L. West, M. and J. Kearney, K. Haymond, M. Wicker,
Third French—E. Plamondon. N. Todd, K Culver, M. Lange.
First German—K. Brown, K. Zell, K Miller, E. Rollins.
Second Germam—V. Ball, M. Faxon, J. Millis.
TABLES OF HONOR.—JUNIOR DEP’T.
January 10.—Annie Gollhardt, Katie FuThnan, Mary Carlin, Maud DeLong, Fannie Kendall, Rose Wile, Minnie Walsh, Alice Noel, Addie Walsh.
January 17.—Misses M. Kearney, L. Niel, N. Gross, A. Clark, M. Quan, J. Kearney, L. Tinsley, M. Quill, M. Cummings, T. Cronin, L. Walsh.
HONORABLE MENTIONS.
Second Senior Class—Misses M. Kearney, L. Niel, N. Gross.
Third Senior Class—Miss J. Kearney.
First Preparatory Class—Miss M. Walker.
Junior Preparatory Class—Misses J. Duffield, ' G. Kelly, F. Lloyd, L. Wood, M. Faxon, A Walsh, -M. Reynolds, E. Horgan.
NOTRE D AME SCHOLASTIC
First Junior Class—Misses M. Hildreth, T. Cronin, A. Gollhardt, F. Munn, K. Fullman, IL Carlin, M. Walsh, A. Noel, B. Quan, M. Booth.
AsrusiNG Typographical Blunders.— The amusement afforded by ludicrous typographical errors will be inexhaustible while printers are fallible and editors write with abominable indifference to legibility. One of the most astonishing blunders of this kind was committed some years ago in an editorial in the Bulletin. The writer, who had cautioned his readers against “ casting their pearls before swine,” was amazed and grieved to perceive that the compositor had warned the public against “ carting their pills before sunrise.” This was corrected in the proof; but the reporter who declared of a new store that it had “ sixty fancy windows,” ’ was even more indignant than the storekeeper when he saw in his paper the statement that the establishment contained “ sixty faded windows.” And then there was the poet, in Muncy, who sought to soothe the wounded feelings of a bereaved family by publishing in the local paper a poetical tribute to the deceased daughter, Emily, in which he declared that “ we will hallow her grave with our tears.” He was pursued next morning by Emily’s exasperated brother, because the printers insisted that “ we will harrow her grave with our steers.”
The poets suffer most deeply. Nothing could be worse, for instance, than the misery of the bard who asserted, in his copy that he “kissed her under the silent star,” only to find that the compositor compelled him to “kick her under the cellar stair.” A certain Jenkyns, also, was the victim of an aggravated assault because when, in his report of a wedding, he declared “that the' bride was accompanied to the altar by eight bridesmaids,” the types made it that “the bride was accompanied to the altar by tight bridesmaids.” These things are peculiarly unpleasant when they occur in remarks upon death; as in the case of the editor, who, while writing a sympathetic paragraph, observed that “ Mr. Smith could hardly bear the loss of his wife,” only to find that the printer had made it, “Mr. Smith could hardly bear such a boss for a wife.”
Even more deplorable is the injury done to the journalist who complimented a certain candidate with the observation that he was “ a noble old burger, proudly loving his native State.” Imagine the indignation of the candidate and the horror of the editor, when the paper next day contained the assersion that the said burger was “ a nobby old burglar, prowling around in a naked state.”
But the printers do not make all the mistakes. We remember the laughter and comments provoked by thestatements of a provincial reporter who called the attention of the constable to the fact that “on Sunday last some twenty or thirty men collected in the hollow back of Thomas McGinnis, and engaged in fighting during the whole morning.” Mr. McGinnis’ back must have been uncommonly large. —Exchange.
In our own office, the compositor in attempting to set “ Nothing remained but that preponderous swell which signalizes with such majesty the end of a tempest,” made it read: “ Nothing remained but that preponderous smell which signalizes with such majesty the end of a trumpet.”
UNIVERSITY OF NOTES DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Bailroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States
TERMS:
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing and Mending of Linens; Doctor's Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per Session of five months, -------	-	150 00
French. German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish,
each, -	--	--	--	--	- 10 00
Instrumental Music, - -- -- -- 12 50 Use of Piano, - - - - - - - . -10 00 Use of Violin, --------	-	200
Drawing, -..............................---15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Com'L $5 00; Scienfc.SS 00; Class*!, 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the Col-
lege are charged, extra, -	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationary, etc., at current prices.
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September the Second on the 1st of February.	’
For further particulars, address
Very Hev- W. COBBT, S.S.C.,
President*
Tlic “AVE MARIA,”
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published v eekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of theChurch.
. TERMS:	-	.
Life subscription. $20, paj able in advance, or by installments paid within the 3 ear.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 j ears $5. in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs often subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $25. in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $15. in advance.	.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave M khia tor $50. in advance.
The postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber's post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
^AINT ^ARY’S J\CADEMY,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing town of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and bad disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley still stand in native grandeur; the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
MOTHER M. ANGELA, Superior,
St. Mary's Academy, Fotre Dame, Ind.
OLD, RELIABLE AND POPULAR ROUTE.
Chicago, Alton & St. Louis Line.
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS ROAD IN THE WEST.
(See Classification of Railways by Board of Railway Commissioners.)
The Shortest, Best and Quickest Route
FROM
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS,
■Witliont Change o£ Cars.
^ffRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
LEAVE.
St. Lonis and Springfield Express, via Main Line	*9:15 a.m.
Kansas City Fast Express, via
Jacksont illc, 111., and Louisiana, Mo.	*9:15 a.m.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington
Express (Western Division)	*9:15	a.m.
Joliet Accommodation,	*4:10	p.m.
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,	t6:30	p.m.
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division 49:00 p.m.
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ilf., and Louisiana, Mo. $9:00 p.m.
ARRIVE.
*8:00 p.m,
♦4:30 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
£7:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only.
| Except Saturday. E Daily. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Time, only 11 Hours-
The only Line running Pullman Palace SleepingCars between Chicago and St. Lonis.
Close Connections in St. Louis for all points in Missouri, Kansas, Colorado and California. The Direct Route and the only all rail route to Memphis, Vicksburg, Mobile, New Orleans, and all points South.
Avoid a long Steamboat Transfer of Twcney-Five Miles, and changes of Cars by taking this Route.
Pullman Palace Cars run on this Route only from Chicago to New Orleans, with but one change.
Louisiana, Mo., New Short Route, Chicago to Kansas City via Chicago & Alton and North Missouri Railroads, passing through Bloomington and Jacksonville, 111., and crossing the Mississippi at Louisiana, Mo.
The best Short Route, from Chicago to Kansas City without change of Cars.
Close Connections in Union Depot, Kansas City, with all Western Roads for Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico and California. and in Chicago with trains of all Eastern roads.
Elegant Day Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars run through from Chicago to St. Louis and Chicago to Kansas City
WITHOUT CHANGE.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Carson all day Trains.
The only Line running these Cars between Chicago and St. Louis, and Chicago and Kansas Citv.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. Mc^fULLIN,
. Gen’lPass. and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Superintendent, •
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
SUMMER ARRANGEMENT.
rpRAlNS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 £8 a. m. “	“	12.22 p.	ni.
“	“	9.20 p.	m.
“	“	12.35 a.	m.
EAST.
Arrive at Buffalo 210 a. m “	" 31.00 a. hi
“	M	2 00 p.m
"	“	5.30 p. m
GOING WEST.
Leave South Bend 5 05 p.m.
“	“	315 a m.
M	M	4 30 a. m.
“	“	5.22 p	m.
Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m “	••	6.50 a. m
“	“	7.20 a. m
“	“	9.20	p.m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
4®* For full details, see the Company's posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
£3^ Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
J. H. DEVERLUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio. CHARLES F. HATCH, General Superintendent, Cleveland. C. P. Leland, Auditor. Cleveland, Ohio.
Jno. Desmond, bup’t Webern Dhision, Chicago, HLj J W. Cart. General Ticket Agent Cleveland Ohio.
C. Mobse, General Passenger Agent. Chicago. Illinois.
M. B. Brown, 1 icket Agent, South Bend. *
A. J. White, Freight Agent, bouth Bend.
NEW ALBANY GROSSING.
To Lafayette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 4.20 a.m.,and7:30p.m* Freight, 4:05 p. m.
Going South—Express passenger, 11:13 a. m., and 6:20 p. m.
Freight,4:50 a. in.
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRA0K RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, 1‘ittsbuigh. Philadelphia and Eew Tort without Change.
Direct Route to Baltimore and Washington City.
ON and after June 1,1871, the 9 pm. train from Chicago arrives in New York at II 30 a m. the second day, iLf hour in advance of any other route ; with corresponding reduction to Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington. Leaves Chicago daily except Saturdays and Sundays.
The 5 15 p.m train from Chicago arrives in New York at 6 41 am. the second morning, 1% hour in advance of any other line. This train has an elegant Silver Palace Car running through between Chicago, Philadelphia and New York without change.
The 9 a.m. train from Chicago daily (except Sundav), with Pullman Palace Cars attached. ’1 hrough between Chicago and New York, without change, 3J4 hours in advance of any other route, and in time to make connection for Boston No other Line oilers this andvantage.	’
Trains from Chicago to Cleveland da Crestline and “Bee’* Line, connecting at Cleveland with trains on the Lake Shore Railroad for all points reached by that route.
Connections made at Crestline for Columbus, and at Mansfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
Passage and Sleeping-Car Tickets can be purchased at the Company’s Office, b5 Clark Street, and at the Passenger Depot, corner Madisuu and canal Streets, Chicago. b
'JHOMAS L. bCUTl’, President.
J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Ass't Sup't, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Geu Pass and Ticket Ag’t, PhiJadelnhia F. R. MYEKB, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh. * W. C. CLELAND, Ass't Gen’l Pass. Ag't, chicagv.
DUNBAR’S
BWcrfiil f feromg.
BETHESDA MINERAL SPRING WATER, OF WAUKESHA, WISCONSIN.,
COL. DUbBAR, Director and General Manager of the Bethesda Springs, of Waukesha, Wisconsin has opened a depot tor the sale of this wonderful water at 139 Dearborn street, Tribune Building, Cliica-o Illinois. The efficacy of this water in eases of Bri’o-lit’s Disease, Diabetes, Chronic Diseases of the Liver °Bili ous Affections, Diseases of the Kidney, and its associate organs, Dropsy, and Gouty Swellings, is unsurpassed
It was this water that re-established Chief-Justice Chase’s health.
Call or send for Circulars. Testimonials of cures Directions how to use the uater accompany each nack’ age sold.	1
RICHARD DUNBAR,
139 Dearborn st., Chicago Or EDWARD P. DUNBAK. at the Snrim's ’ v5nl	1 ° ’