Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 1, 1879.
Number 22.
The Minnesinger.
No knightly court, nor castle-hall resounds
With thy pure songs, Love-singer, as of old;
Nor tales of prowess, or of crusade hold
Are heard within the busy world’s far bounds.
Yet as the seasons pace their ceaseless rounds
My soul is stirred with pleasure sweet, untold
From feast to feast, I, pilgrim, in Christ’s fold Pass on, expectant. Wake, my harp, thy sounds!
I’ll sing while journeying to the one I love,
To whom my heart and voice and hopes belong,—
Nor lesser love can my soul satiate.
Here place I—minnesinger’s love to prove— The pure white roses of Devotion’s song, At the Fair Feet of the Immaculate.
Joseph W. S. Norris in the “Ave Maria.”
Geofiroi de St. Hilaire.
During the latter part of the last century natural history reckoned two principal men, Cuvier aud Geoffroi de Saint Hilaire. Both were natives of France, and arose from the multitude during the French Revolution. They distinguished themselves under the Empire, and were among its principal ornaments. They died about the middle of the present century, without leaving after them anyone capable of replacing them. Their death caused a void, which was sensibly felt throughout the scientific world. From Buffon to Cuvier all the great naturalists - succeeded or, so to speak, produced one author. Buffon called Daubenton from the obscurity of his native little village and placed him beside himself; Daubenton patronized Geoffroi de Saint Hilaire, and Geoffroi de Saint Hilaire raised up Cuvier. A beautiful genealogy, as noble as it was liberal. “ Come to my assistance,” wrote Buffon to Daubenton, at the time but a poor physician at Montbard. “ Go,” said Daubenton to Geoffroi de Saint Hilaire, on urging him to enter the museum into which he had obtained access for him, “ and in twenty years caused it to be said that zoology is a French science.” In fine, Geoffroi, having become professor, wrote in his turn to Cuvier, then a simple tutor in a castle of the province: “ Come, and give to France another Linnceus.” A beautiful succession of words and, worthy of being enregistered in history; for, besides being of a nature almost prophetic, they at the same time display a disinterestedness honorable to the French character, which, itwere to be wished, would become more common among the learned. It was, unhappily, in the person of M. Cuvier that this noble chain of genius was destined to be interrupted, for since his demise there has been no one found—not even among those whom he raised to for-tupe-rr-who poyld attain to more ^han a mediocre rank; and in
this respect it seems that to M. Geoffroi belongs the glory of having doubly served the cause of science, since after having given to it M. Cuvier by his patronage, he gave by his encouragement and the influence of his principles the illustrious M. Serres, at one time president of the embryological school.
There is a remarkable and striking circumstance connected with this linking of naturalists, with the exception of the last. It is that each one of these great minds, without intending it, chose an opponent. Hence, looking from a scientific point of view, the diversity of doctrines and, by consequence, dissensionsand misunderstandings in their private relations. The rupture between Buffon and Daubenton for a long time occupied a place in the domain of history; that between Geoffroi and Cuvier also occupied a space. It is well known that the two former, after having labored together in friendly concert for several years, separated, each to contend against the other to a certain extent. Precisely the same thing happened to the other two. At first, one sees with surprise the works of these two celebrated rivals written in common, and bearing, as in the case of Buffon and Danbeuton, their names united; but very soon their lines began to divide in the same way, and after a war of feelings repressed, their dissensions finally burst forth, like that of Buffon and Daubenton, and made the balls of the Academy ring by their memorable discussions.
It would be self-deception to suppose that this curious analogy was the effect of pure chance. For, whoever will take the trouble to examine matters to their foundation will soon discover the secret of this antagonism, because there is in it the counter-stroke of a principal law. As all in nature rests on that principle of unity in variety which Leibnitz has so justly named the base of the universe, it follows that the observers of nature, following the bent of their minds, should be borne onwards to observe it more specially whether as to unity or variety. In Buffon and Geoffroi we see the spirits of unity; in Daubenton and Cuvier those of variety. Hence the hostility of these great men, who, placed in spheres different and metaphysically contradictory, ended by no longer understanding each other as soon as they arrived at a certain point; hence also that spontaneity which, in the beginning, before anything too definite had yet cooled their friendship or separated them from each other, led them on to seek and approach . each other as if the one were a necessary complement of the other. Notwithstanding those apparent divisions, there, is then, between Geoffroi Saint de Hilaire and Cuvier, as between Buffon and Daubenton, a profound cohesion, born in nature itself, in virtue of which they shall always remain associated and united in history. Although the two points of view, unity and variety, are alike indispensable, since patpre generally detnandg bQth, |t does pot
342
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
result that science, following the different epochs of its development, should not more particularly appeal sometimes to one, sometimes to the other. Science, in effect, is like politics, which proceeds by alternative actions and reactions, and the sequel of its progress consists in manifesting at one time the analogies, at another the differences which exist in the system between profoundly simple and varied in the productions of nature. This it is which explains how the school of Cuvier after having dazzled all eyes by its brilliancy till within a few years, fell into a visible decadence, and yielded place to that of Geoffroi de Saint Hilaire which has already taken precedency. The merit of Cuvier is not diminished by stripping it of the false glitter which thoughtless admiration always causes, but that of his rival emerges from obscurity and attains popularity, the surest proof of solid worth. So far, posterity has equally given to each his due. And although Geoffrey de St. Hilaire did not obtain during his life all the praise his works deserved—their time not having yet come—his recompense the other side of the tomb will be only the greater; for the epoch now opening up before us sides with him daily more and more. His time came, and Providence even desired, as a special mark of favor for a life so disinterested and laborious, that he should not leave the earth without carrying with him this consoling certainty. In effect, he had the satisfaction of hearing, at one of the solemnities of the Institute, the successor and last disciple of Cuvier forced to acknowledge by evidence this triumph, and state that in the celebrated debates which took place before the Academy in 1832 between the two rivals, right was not always, perhaps, on the side of him whose speech was most eloquent. “It was only when the contest arisen between these two illustrious rivals was brought before this Academy, that public opinion finally understood the strength and force of the new ideas,” said M. Flourens, Secretary-General, in 1842, while pronouncing the eulogium of M. de Candolles. Then, by attributing with certain propriety M. Cuvier to the 18lh century in opposition to IL Geoffroi in the 19th, he says: “ Each century beheld a brilliant star in science; the 18th laid the foundation of great plans, the nature of which was precision itself; the 19th sought out intimate laws regarding the organization of beings, and carried its experiments to somewhat of a marvellous extent.”
We add to these words some of the most lively and explicit traits mentioned by M. Serres in his eulogium of Geoffroi. “ Consult the numerous works that M. Geoffroi has published,” says this illustrious anatomist; “collect the souvenirs of his lessons, so lively, original and interesting; everywhere you will find the same philosophy, and this philosophy I define by these words, ‘The art of observing in toto.’ ” It is this art that Geoffroi inherited from Buffon, which established his success and opened up to him the new paths which he traced in zoological and anatomical science; that made him investigate all the arbitrariness of classifications founded on the immutability of species, whose nature showed him at each step variability; that made him seek in the action of exterior agents the causes of these variations, and the reason of those zoological zones of the globe to which the different families and genera limit themselves; that made him lay down the marks of that parallel classification of animals, which his son so skilfully drew up, and which takes the lead in the revolution that all the branches of zoological science is today undergoing.	-
But, without too boldly entering into an analysis of the
works of this great naturalist, we shall simply endeavor to narrate his life, and the lessons that flow from it.
Geoffroi St. Hilaire was born at Etampes, April 15th, 1772, and belonged to a family celebrated in the annals of science, for it had already given to the Academy of Science, in the seventeenth century, three members of the same name. His father destined him for the Church, but his natural vocation .predominated. He was formed by the lessons of HaQy, Fourcroy, and Daubenton. His masters, seduced by the charms of his mind and disposition, did not long hesitate to distinguish and attach themselves to him. Scarcely had he attained the age of twenty-one, when, on	,
the proposal of Daubenton and Bernardin de St. Pierre, at that time intendant-general of the Jardin-des-Plantes, the executive council named him under-keeper of the Cabinet of Natural History, vice Lacepede. He was not destined to remain long in this modest position. On the 10th of June in this same year, 1793,- the botanical garden was reorganized by the Convention to its present proportions under the name of the Museum of Natural History, and Geoffroi St.-Hilaire was named by a decree to fill one of the twelve chairs which had been but just instituted, that of the history of vertebrated animals. Our young naturalist, fearful of the charge, hesitated to accept it, but was finally induced by Daubenton, who wrote to him: “ I exercise over you,” said he, “ the authority of a father, and I take upon myself the responsibility of the event. No one has yet taught zoblogy at Paris, and so little attention has been hitherto paid to it, that it can scarcely yet be called a science; undertake it, and cause the world to acknowledge in twenty years that it is a French science.” .	r
It was thus that Geoffroi entered on his career, and it may be said that all his life was consecrated to the fulfilment of Daubenton’s patriotic words. The Museum is indebted to him for immense additions, and they form one of the glories of Paris which one often admires without knowing to whom to attribute it. It was he alone who took the first steps, and at his own expense established a menagerie; so that this institution, now so celebrated and extensive, traces back its origin solely to him. The fine collections of stuffed animals, which finally became too large to find a place in the galleries, were all collected under the administration of Geoffroi, and by his own labor.	j
The registers assure us that when confided to his care the	;
collection consisted of only about a dozen mammiferous and four hundred ornithological specimens. It is well known that these two institutions, after having been for a long time the admiration of Europe, have become its models.
We have purposely begun by touching bn these two	;
objects, because, although being among the least of his labors, they attract the eye more than the rest. To these positive services it must be added that for the space of forty years M. Geoffroi occupied two professorships, one at the Museum and the other in the Faculty of Sciences, and that it was he, by this double office, founded in France, according to Daubenton’s views, the philosophical teaching of zoology, by gradually infusing into the minds of his pupils those luminous principles which now govern and render facile, in all its parts, the difficult and extensive science of the organization of animals. His whole life was devoted to this end. He used to apply to himself the words of St. Augustine: “ Homo unius libri ”—“a man of one book,”—and from his youth he had adopted for a device in all his works, “ UtUitati''—to the benefit, not of * himself, but of others, his country and humanity jn gen-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
343
3
£
■ 1
eral, whom he wished to see increase in happiness and knowledge. Thus when Napoleon, wishing to make his expedition to Egypt as brilliant as possible, proposed to the most distinguished savants to join his retinue, M. Geoffroi did not hesitate an instant to brave the fatigues and dangers of the journey and join his fortune to that of the young General, whose friendship he quickly gained. As has been remarked, his promptitude in this circumstance afterwards turned out singularly to his advantage, inasmuch as his sojourn by the Nile afforded him an opportunity to study the crocodile, and this study was the occasion of inspiring him with some of the most fertile of his theoretical ideas. Young, endowed with activity, energy and perseverance, he greatly contributed to the scientfic glory of that famous expedition. It is even to his firmness of character that is owing the preservation of those precious manuscripts and collections of all kinds which have become the foundation of the revival that has arisen regarding the exploration of Egypt. The commission of the Institute of Egypt, which had sought an asylum at Alexandria, and was given up without defence to the enemy by capitulation, was about to fall into the hands of the English, with all its riches. The latter arrogantly insisted that all the materials which had been amassed by the French savants with so much pains should be handed over without delay I and, perhaps, in the impossibility of offering any resistance, they were going to yield, when young Geoffroi, impelled by indignation and that generous anger which is so often a power that even the strong cannot resist, suddenly changed the state of things by openly daring to apostrophise England in the name of the law of nations which she so often outrages. “ In two days,” said he to the English commissary, “ your troops will enter the place; in two days we shall deliver up to you our persons; but in those two days what you exact of us shall have ceased to exist; your odious spoliation shall never be accomplished; we ourselves will burn our treasures. You seek celebrity! Well, count upon it in the pages of history; you also have burned a library of Alexandria!” The collections were saved, and the great work on Egypt, sole trophy of this expedition, advances towards completion.
In 1808, M. Geoffroi again left France, on a mission of another kind. The Emperor, who had learned to appreciate him in Egypt, commissioned him to organize the system of public instruction in Portugal. Desirous to make his mission equally profitable to that country and his own, he took with him a collection of all the duplicate objects that were in the Museum, hoping to exchange them in Portugal for others more precious and not to be found in the galleries. Endeavoring to accomplish the principal end of his mission, he had succeeded in making a very important collection when the treaty of the evacuation of Portugal again brought him before the English, rendering his position here similar to what it was in Egypt. The English had exacted that the collections should be transmitted to them, and the Duke d’Abrant&s ceded to the demand with but little resistance. The conservators of the Museum, however, filled with gratitude to M. Geoffroi, spontaneously came and declared that these collections were his individual property, that they had been purchased by objects given to the Portuguese collections by him, and by the pains he had taken in arranging them, and that, consequently, Portugal had nothing to claim. The English commissary nevertheless insisted that four cases should be remitted to hirn as tribute, and M. Geoffroi ac-
ceded, leaving him four of little value, which belonged to himself. The generous liberality which M. Geoffroi displayed during his mission received a still more distinguished recompense in 1815. M. de Richelieu having written to the ambassador of Portugal that France was ready to return from its museums all that had been taken from the Portuguese during the Empire, the Ambassador, teaching the French Minister a lesson of dignity, replied by an official note: “We do not, and should not reclaim anything! A meeting took place between M. Geoffroi, General Beresford and Lord Proby, in presence of the Academy of Lisbon and the conservators of Ajuda. The connoisseurs of the Academy and the conservators caused it to be made known that M. Geoffroi declined to avail himself of the authority he had to select unique objects alone; that he only took duplicates, and that what he had received had been given him in exchange for other rare and unknown objects that he bad brought with him from Paris, and for the trouble he had taken to arrange and label the collections left at Ajuda, where it manifestly appeared that nothing was missing.” There are very few Frenchmen who have had, like Geoffroi, the happy privilege of receiving from their conquerors in 1815 testimonies really honorable to them.
M. Geoffroi never quitted France after his return from Portugal. A member of the Institute in 1807, and then successively associated with all the learned societies of Europe, who deemed it an honor to count him in their number, he consecrated the remainder of his long and tranquil life to the improvement of zoology. Disinterested, profoundly serious, devoid of all ambition, except that of aiding science, he well understood, notwithstanding the many efforts made to persuade him to the contrary, that a sarant who has the accomplishment of his duty at heart ought not to mix himself up with politics. These are two careers which cannot be conscientiously followed at the same time, for one of them alone suffices to occupy a man’s strength and time. The gravity of circumstances in the crisis of 1815, however, made an exception to this law, and induced him for a time to swerve from its principles. He took his place in the Chamber of Representatives; but with the exception of the year 1830 he never appeared among that body, nor took his place in the House of Peers, to which his illustrious name naturally called him. “I could not satisfy myself, and perform the functions of a deputy at the same time,” said he at the last elections at Etampes, “ only while the contest lasted, and while it was a question of or ganizing France for liberty and national independence. The position every man ought to occupy is, to a certain extent, dependent on the times in which he lives. I now return to the cultivation of the sciences, conceiving this to be my proper position, and that by which I can render myself most useful to society, even from a legislative point of view; for philosophical study enlarges the realms of thought, adds to the human genius; and, whatever be the knowledge acquired, it is always a germ and a source of moral improvement.” Deep and beautiful words of a virtuous ambition! And are they not the more to be appreciated when we reflect on the irreparable wrong that has been done to genius by the celebrated opponent of M. Geoffroi, in occupying so many of the best years of his life in sterile discussions before the Council of State? Honored by all Europe, seeing with gladness the new principles which he had the honor of producing gradually propagate themselves by giving rise on all sides to discoveries
344
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
that surprised even himself, without, however, rendering him jealous, as is often the case with vulgar souls; universally looked upon as the principal head of the Museum, from which death had successively removed all its other founders, he awaited old age with triumphant serenity. The death of M. Cuvier left no opponent of his ideas, and his intellectual royalty in zoOlogy was undisputed. Each year that increased his age also added a new flower to his ;rown. But a profound chagrin, that he never could have the least presentiment of, was destined to interrupt his tranquillity and fill him with sadness. The menagerie that he had created, to which he had attached his name, which he had superintended for forty years, and which he loved, was tom from him. M. de Salvandy, at that time Prime Minister, cruelly and outrageously deprived him of it to bestow it on a brother of M. Cuvier, a man of mediocre talent whom M. Geoffroi had the kindness to attach to the menagerie in quality of keeper. The illustrious old man felt this odious stroke most sensibly. In vain did they endeavor to repair the act by restoring him his former place on the demise of him by whom he had been superseded. His menagerie was his kingdom; once banished from it, life never more had any charms for him. His strength grew less, his eyes gradually became unconscious of the light, and, with the constancy and magnanimity of a true philosopher, surrounded by his family, who loved him tenderly, and by his friends who admired him still more in his majestic decadence than in the prime of manhood, he awaited for nearly two years an end that seemed imminent every day, repeating: “I am happy.”
A Trip to Colorado.
In the summer of 1875 I started from Notre Dame for a trip to Colorado, where my parents removed after I had entered the Minim Department. I left here in the month of June, and after stopping a while with some friends in Decatur, Michigan, in Chicago, and in Joliet, I made preparations for my homeward journey. As it was my first trip to Colorado, and as some of the young readers of the Scholastic may not have gone over the route, I will try to give an idea of what I saw and some of the incidents I met with.	'
I started from Joliet at 9 o’clock p. m. on Thursday, and arrived in Kansas City the next day. Here I met an acquaintance on his way to Omaha, and so having some one to chat with, I enjoyed the evening very much. My companion told me a story that had somewhat of a twist in it, as I surmised at the time, and afterwards found my suspicions correct. He said that while in Kansas City he joined a number of other boys to hunt a herd of buffaloes which had been seen by the side of the railroad some few days before. The party had travelled some twenty miles, when, about 1 o’clock p. m., they came to a halt, one of the number (not himself, but another boy) seeing a herd of buffaloes ahead. The rest of the party, however, would not go with him in pursuit. The young man (or boy, for he was not much older than myself,) would not lose the opportunity of having a shot at them, so he set off after the buffaloes. Well, when he got them within range, he fired/killing one and wounding another,—a young steer, which immediately turned and commenced an attack. The boy then reloaded, and struck the steer on the horn, the bullet striking the butt of the left horn, glancing down, and entering the heart. The youngster ttien reT
turned to his comrades in great glee, telling them of his good luck, and that he had killed two buffaloes. So all rode to the place, and found, as they had surmised, two fine young steers! As soon as they saw what the greeny had done, they started home immediately, leaving the dead cattle on the plain. Now just think what a greeny a fellow must be to shoot Texas steers for wild buffaloes! This is the way he told me the story, but he did not tell it aright I afterwards learned that it was he himself, and not one of the others, that was the hero of the buffalohunt, and when I told him what I had heard he did not show himself again.	•
After leaving Omaha, I saw hundreds and hundreds of curiosities,—so many that I hardly know where to begin describing them, so will have to let them pass. The second night the train ran into a herd of buffaloes that was crossing the track; the train was thrown off by them, but two hours later it was all right once more, and speeding on its westward way.	,
We arrived in Cheyenne on the third day, about noon, and here I saw for the first time an Indian chief and his warriors. After leaving Cheyenne I saw quite a number of buffaloes, horses, antelopes, etc., etc. It was pleasant to sit and watch all these strange animals, but oh, how I itched to have a shot at them! We were travelling at the rate of forty-five miles an hour, on the level prairie. Once in looking out I saw far ahead what seemed to me to be mountains, and, like all curious young people, I wished to know what mountains they were. So, leaning over, I asked a gentleman the question; he laughed and said they were table-lands or bluffs ! I was exceedingly puzzled to think why such large hills should not be called mountains, for they seemed like mountains to me; I had never seen anything so prodigious before. On arriving at Denver, I took a stroll, in the evening, towards a large creek, called Cherry Creek, which has its source in the mountains, and to my surprise I found I could (if I wished) have picked my way across it on the large rocks or boulders jutting out of the water, they were so numerous. I then went to the top of a church steeple near by, to get a better view of the surrounding country. After working pretty hard I reached my destination, about one hundred and fifty feet above the level ground. Here to my great delight I saw a tall range of mountains capped with snow. I had often heard of snow-covered mountains, but never saw anything of the kind before. What a grand sight it was! I could almost imagine, while standing there in the hot summer sun, that I felt the refreshing coolness suggested by the scene. It looked so natural, so nice and wintry! I would not have missed that sight for anything.
That evening I arrived in Boulder City, Col. It was now quite late, so I could not see much of anything. I went to the post-office, inquired where Mr. F--------lived, and was told his residence was beyond the creek. Shortly after I met uncle C----------------------------------, who took me there, and then I was all right.
The next morning, awaking bright and early, my surprise and astonishment were great at the strangeness of my surroundings. I could hardly realize I should be anywhere else than at Decatur or at the College. After breakfast I went out with Mr. F-----to the planing-mill—for he was proprietor of a planing-mill at the mouth of Boulder Canon. I soon got acquainted with some young gentlemen, and went all over the place. Boulder- City is a very thriving Western tovyn. It had nt thnt time gonje 5,0Q0
5*-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
345
inhabitants, and boasted a planing-mill, grist-mill and sawmill ; these were all the mills at that time (in 1875). But there are three times as many now, besides the smelting works owned by Mr. Boyd. I understand, also, that the population has run up to 12.000. In the afternoon I startec up the canon and could take a good view of the surroundings. The town is built in a beautiful valley at the mouth of the canon; the mountains on either side are very high and steep, and are covered with pine. About four miles up the mountains there is a large saw-mill, at the junction of Boulder and West Boulder Creeks. Here the road branches, one fork leading to Nevada, the other to the ore-crushing mill, or stamping-mill, as it is called. Here I saw about fifteen “ pack-jacks ” coming down the mountain-side from a mine, loaded with quartz. The ascent is too steep for horses. The donkeys carry from five to six hundred pounds of ore. I visited the mill, and, for the first time, witnessed the manner in which quartz is treated.
The next morning I went hunting with some acquaintances; we killed some ducks, etc., and had a nice time. In the afternoon I started for Four Mile Canon, where my uncle A-------lived. He was a horse-raiser. The horses there are small, like Indian ponies; they are about half wild, and very treacherous. They run in herds. These horses are permitted to run loose on the prairie, each person having particular places for his own. They are not apt to go much farther than the bounds of the range. My uncle’s residence is situated at the mouth of the canon, in a very pleasant place. In the rear, a little to the northeast from the house, are table-lands as far as you can see, and to the left rises Hay-stack Mountain, so called because at a distance it resembles a hay-stack. At the foot of the mountain is a prairie-dog town, and another at the western end of the bluffs. Here you can see hundreds—yes, thousands—of prairie-dogs. They are very curious little animals. I will try and give an idea of them, and their subterranean abodes. The habitation of the prairie-dog is a hole about a foot in diameter, and running to an untold distance underground. The soil dug out of the hole is thrown up so as to form a circular wall about a foot high, and surrounding the hole, so as to keep water from flowing in on the occupants. The prairie-dog is about twice the size of a rat, and barks like a young dog. They may be often seen sitting on their haunches at the edge of their habitations; if anyone appears, the nearest barks, whereupon the whole community set to barking. If they are disturbed, the nearest will pop down into their holes. Hence they are not very easily caught. If shot, they will be dragged into their holes almost before the report of the gun is heard. Sometimes they are trapped, and when tamed they make nice pets, and become equal to cats as mousers. They are sometimes worth from five to ten dollars a pair, if properly tamed. If allowed to remain in a steel trap for any length of time, they will gnaw off their legs to free themselves. Sometimes they are “ drowned out,” but this is an uncertain way of catching them, as their holes are often very deep, and run in such curving way, that one might pour water in for hours without filling them. Sometimes three or four barrels will fill a hole, The prairie-dogs will not come out till forced by the water, and then will show fight. Rattlesnakes and a peculiar kind of owl are frequently found living in the same hole with the prairie-dogs. Seldom more than two dogs live in the same hole, and there are scarcely ever two caught at the same time, unless they are young ones. As soon as
their young attain any size they are driven out and forced to “ do for themselves.”
I also visited the coal-mines at South Boulder, but as most people are more or less acquainted with coal-mines, I will not describe these.	H. E. C. (Prep.)
The Harvest Mouse.
The harvest mouse, nearly allied to the meadow mouse, differs from the latter in his way of life. He is smaller, more delicate, more shapely, and, we are tempted to say, leads a more exalted life. The harvest, when it is pretty high above the ground, is his forest; the stalks of wheat his trees, which he ascends and descends, twining his flexible tail around them; he almost equals the monkey or the squirrel in agility.
This pretty little animal, seeming almost conscious of the gentility of his appearance, occupies himself a good deal at his toilet, brushing his ears, and smoothing his sleek coat, and he is also very dainty in the construction of his nest. Being compelled to bury himself in winter in the corn or wheat bin, in summer he seeks to unite the agreeable and the safe; he must have the luxury of a charming situation between earth and heaven. Several standing stalks of grain form the supports and the roof of his hanging house; about half way from the ground he draws them together, and fastens them with straws or strong blades of grass; and it is in the centre of this bundle of stalks that he places the nest for his future family. The least breath of wind rocks the cradle for his little ones.
Let us borrow from an English naturalist a fuller description of one of these nests: “I shall never forget the delight I felt when one day, in my solitary rambles, I came upon one of these delicate nests. It was in the middle of a wheat-field, when the ears were beginning to turn yellow. The little brown nest, as round as a marble, was constructed with such art as to cause me to raise my eyes and my thoughts to heaven. Imagine a sphere about the size of an ordinary hand-ball, woven from blades of grass on three united stalks, and fastened to the living plants about five inches from the ground. Near the centre of the nest was an opening, but so ingeniously concealed (in the absence of the mother) that it could with difficulty be noticed. I did not find it even after one of the little ones fell out. I carried the nest home with me; it contained eight blind mice, destitute of hair. I opened the ball very carefully, so as not to injure too much the labor of the little animal. The interior of the nest, which I felt with my little finger, was spongy and warm. No other substance but leaves and herbs had been employed in this wonderful piece of workmanship; there was no cement, and no substance to hold it together besides the leaves, skilfully cut by the little animal with his teeth.”
T.
—When you hear the phrase, “I may say without vanity,” you may be sure some characteristic vanity will follow in the same breath.
—A country farmer told a friend of his who had come from a town for a few days’ shooting, that he once had so excellent a gun that it went off immediately upon a thief coming into the house, although not charged. “ How the deuce is that?” said his friend. “Why,” replied the farmer, “because the thief carried it off; and, what was worse, before I had time to charge him with it.”
346	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—Dr. H. Briem confirms the opinion that plants grow more luxuriantly when their earliest stages of development are accelerated by heat than if they are subjected to occasional retardations of growth.
—Frubini and Ronchi find that the quantity of carbonic acid thrown off by the hand and forearm in darkness is to the quantity evolved in the light as one hundred to one hundred and thirteen. The amount rises with the temperature, and is greater during the process of digestion than when the stomach is empty.
—Capt. Roudaire is at the present moment busily en-ployed in M. de Lesseps’ enterprise of creating a vast inland sea in Africa in the gigantic natural basin which lies to the north of the desert of Sahara. The country through which the projected canal would be cut is, it appears, entirely free from rocks or other obstacles.
—The Darwinian maxim that the heaviest and finest seeds tend to produce the finest plants has found support in the observations and tests made by Mr. A. S. Wilson on turnip seeds. Large seeds gave a product of two pounds seven ounces per seed, against two pounds one and onefourth ounces in the case of small seeds.
—A clock made entirely of bread has lately been received in Milan, Italy, from Peru. It was constructed by an Indian, who, having no means of purchasing material, saved a portion of the soft part of his daily bread for the purpose. He solidified it with a certain salt which rendered it very hard, and insoluble in water. The clock keeps good time, and the case, also of hardened bread, displays artistic talent
—California cactus is one of the newest articles from which paper is made, and a process has been patented in Germany by a Mr. Nordilinger, of Stuttgart, for rendering the fibre of the hop plant sufficiently tractable for the purpose. The stems and other parts are boiled in water and soap for three-quarters of an hour, thoroughly washed, and then again boiled in very much diluted acetic acid. The fibres are then washed, dried and combed, and are ready for working.
—The electric light is to have a trial in Paris under the supervision of the municipal authorities. For a year the Avenue 1’Opera and the Place de la Bastile and one of the market buildings are to be lit by the electric light at a charge not exceeding six cents per hour for each burner, while the gas company is to light the Rue du Quatre Sep-tembre, the Place du Chateau d’Eau, and another market building in an improved fashion at an extra charge of not more than one cent per cubic metre.
—A. contributor to The British Journal of Photography writes: “Are photographers aware that the electric light can be produced without either a steam or a gas engine? Yet such is the case. It has been found by the aid of a large fly-wheel, which can easily be driven by one man, a degree of rapidity and power can be obtained quite sufficient for utilization in the production of the electric light. A large, machine, requires, of course, a powerful motor; but a machine of moderate power will suffice for the requirements of the photographer who desires to make ■use of it either in the production of portraits or enlargements. I am aware of a machine of this kind having been constructed by an amateur mechanician, and it answeres well. What is now wanted is a machine of similar power, that can be obtained in the usual course .of business ata moderate price, all complete.”
—Prof. Lockyer thinks that human life on the planet Mars may be very much like human life on the earth. Although the light cannot be so bright, yet the organs of sight ot the inhabitants may be so much more susceptible as to make their vision quite as good as ours. Probably the heat on Mars is less than on the earth, as the polar snows extend further towards the equator, but it is by no means in proportion to the lessened power of the solar rays. Several remarkable seas are now definable in the southern hemisphere, where, as in the case of the southern hemisphere of the earth, water covers a much larger area than in the northern hemisphere. One of the southern seas of Mars is very like the Baltic in outline. Another
sea near the equator is one thousand miles in length and about one hundred in breadth—a long, straggling body of water, pretty much the shape of the letter S laid on its back, stretching from east to west.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Herr Wagner is reported to have completed the score of “ Parsifal,” which will soon be published. The version for voice and piano is, it is said, to be executed by Herr Carl Klindworth.
—In Russia a marked impulse was given to the newspaper press by the late war, so that newspapers penetrated into social strata throughout the country where they had been almost or entirely unknown before.
—A new edition of Schliemann’s “Troy and Its Remains,” which “ will have a scientific form, and be very different from the first,” is to be published in London. Dr. Schliemann is about to begin the preparation of it.
—Swinburne, the poet, according to the London correspondent of the Irish Times, is preparing, under the instruction of Fr. Keogh, the Superior of the Brompton Oratory, for his reception into the Roman Catholic Church.
—The Japanese Government never until now has authorized any portion of the Scriptures to be published in that country. Recently it gave authority to a Japanese publisher to print an edition of the Book of Genesis in the Chinese language.
—A new dictionary of English dramatic literature, “ as exhaustive as Collier’s, but more critical,” is in preparation in London. It will serve, when completed, as a book of reference. Of the great dramatists long and elaborate notices will be given.
—Mrs. Grote, widow of the historian of Greece, who lately died in London, wrote a life of her husband, in which the mental qualities shown were considered of a high order. Her letters and conversations are said to have been better than her books.
—A Danish poem called “ Derovrefra Graendsen,” which was the first serious attempt to deal poetically with the disastrous war of 1864, and its recollections, and was published during the past year, went through seven or eight editions in six months. Several composers have set a fragment of it to music, which has penetrated into all ranks of the people.
—The German public is not given to buying books; it subscribes to circulating libraries instead. It is not given to buying newspapers, as the Americans or the English are. Berlin has a population considerably over a million, but its Tag Blatt, the most widely-read journal in the city, has only about one-third the sale of a first-class provincial paper in England. The German burgher, petty official, professional man, and shopkeeper, read their papers in pastry-cook shops and beer-houses.
—The London Times, in a recent leader, spoke of the Hebrew as “a language which possesses but a single volume of literature.” A correspondent points out that there are ten thousand Hebrew books in the library of the British Museum, and that the catalogue of the Hebrew books and manuscripts in the Bodleian Library is a small quarto eight inches thick. It might have been thought that an Oriental language was one of the things the present editor of the Thunderer knew something about.
—Eugene Schuyler says the death last year of the Russian poet, Nekrasof, has left the nation without a poet. There are men remaining who write poetry in their way, but Nekrasof “ was inspired.” “ He had caught the idea of his generation, had expressed it as none but a real poet can, and had instilled it into others.” So great was the feeling toward “ this last great poet ” that he was followed to the grave by a concourse unexampled in recent times in Russia. “ Strange to say, this poet of the people grew rich by literature.”
—The New York Tribune says: “A number of wealthy residents of the city are forming an association to promote the supply of what is termed a ‘ universally-felt want, for popular music at popular prices, free from the restraints

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	347
attendant upon a theatre or concert hall.’ In other words, they propose to erect a large and comfortable concert-garden, where promenade concerts will be given nearly all the year round, and where persons of taste and culture may enjoy recreation of a lighter order than Italian opera or Symphony concert.” The conductor of these concerts will be Rudolph Aronson.
—Anne Brewster writes to the Boston Advertiser: “ The remains of a whole apse painted by Giotto has been discovered lately at Rome. The credit belongs to the well-known Roman archteologlcal painter, Signor Scifoni. He heard a few weeks ago that there was a tradition existing which said that Giotto had decorated a certain old church on the borders of the Campagna, and instantly he began careful examinations of the building. Only two or three persons know the interesting fact; indeed, outside of this little number, there are few to take interest in the matter. The pictures are fast crumbling away. When I mounted the ladder to examine various parts of them, the mere touching of my fur mantle against the wall caused many fragments of painted plaster to fall to the ground.
—Five operas new to Vienna have been selected for performance next year at the Imperial Opera-House: “Die Gbtterdiimmerung,” the only part not yet represented of the Nibelungen Tetrology; “Aennchen von Tharau,” already successfully produced in Hamburg, music by Hoffmann, book by Feis. “Don Carlos,” by Verdi; “Le Roi de Lahore,” by Massenet; and “ Paul et Virginie,” by Masse. In consequence of his having raised his terms, M. Faure’s projected engagement will probably not be carried out. After appearing as Siegfried, Herr Jiger has come forward .as Rienzi in Wagner’s opera of the same name, but not very successfully. “ Konig Jerome,” the first buffo opera from the pen of Ziehrer, a popular composer of dance music, has been produced at the Ringtheatre, and proved a success, notwithstanding a bad libretto.
—Mr. Robert Lenox Kennedy will soon present to the Lenox Library in New York City an art work of extraordinary interest and—if the French critics are to be trusted, as in such a matter they certainly have some claim to be— of distinguished worth, namely, Munkacsy’s large oil painting entitled “ Blind Milton Dictating Paradise Lost to His Daughters.” It measures about eight feet in length by about six feet in height, was one of the “ sensations ” at the late Paris Exhibition, and while hanging there was bought by Mr. Kennedy for the purpose just mentioned. The treatment of light and sunshine are said to constitute one of its technical marvels. John Milton in a comfortable chair in his library, is dictating “Paradise Lost” to one of his three daughters who sits by the table and acts as his amanuensis, while another daughter at another side of the table occupies herself with fancy work of some sort, and the third daughter stands listening near her.
—We are pained to announce the death of Rev. Father Finotti, which occurred at Central City, Col. (where he was pastor), on the 11th ult. He had been in delicate health for some time, but his death was hastened by an accident which he met with some time ago while attending his distant missions. Father Finotti was well known throughout the United States as a learned and zealous priest. He was pastor for many years of Brookline, Mass., and literary editor of the Pilot. He was the author of a “ Life of Blessed Peter Claver,” published by Lee & Shepard, of Boston, and translated the “ Spirit of St. Francis de Sales,” which was published by Mr. O’Shea of New York. He was also a contributor to the Catholic World. His most important work was a Bibliographia Americana, of which only a part has been published. Some years ago he left Brookline and became a professor at St. Mary’s Seminary, Cincinnati. Later on he went to Omaha, and thence to Colorado, where he died.
—John Bannister, the comedian, was presented to an old lady proud of her ancient and noble blood. The lady asked a wit of the day who was present, “ Who are the Bannisters? Are they of good family ?’’ “Yes,” said the wit, “ very good, indeed; they are closely connected with the Stairs.” “Oh,” said the lady, “a very ancient family of Ayrshire, dates back to 1450! I am delighted to see your friend.”
Books and Periodicals.
—The January number of the Catholic Quarterly Review has been received, and is replete as usual with a series of sound philosophical articles. The following are the contents: I, Theories of Education and of Life, Thomas Carlyle; II, Cedmon: His Genius and Influence; III, The Human Soul and Body; IV, The Present Industrial Condition of Ireland; V, An Autumn in the Rocky Mountains; VI, Was Shakespeare a Catholic? VH, How Heresy deals with the Bible; VIII, The Catholic Church in the United States, in the Recent Translation of Alzog; IX, Catholicity and Protestantism in Relation to our Future as a People; X, Correspondence Missionary, Rectors; XI, Book Notices.
—“ The Reality of the World ” is the title of the leading article iu the February number of The Catholic World. “Jasmin,” a delightful sketch of that most charming of characters, the barber poet of the south of France, follows. “ Civilization and its Laws ” is a close review of Funck-Brentano’s interesting work on the same subject. There is a further instalment of the able articles on “Plain Chant.” “ Pere Monsabi 6 ” gives a strong picture of the leading French pulpit orator of the day, and of his work. “The Material Mission of the Church” is a fitting sequel to a recent article on “ Some Barriers between Capital and Labor,” which attracted wide attention. “Protestant Theology in Short Clothes ” is an amusing yet serious examination of Sunday-schools and Sunday-school literature generally. “ Rome under the Popes and under the Piedmontese” is the first instalment of an article contrasting the actual position of the Roman people, financially, socially, and morally, under the two governments. Figures and facts are presented that will go far to change popular opinions on this subject. The “ Roipan Letter ” deals with the fall of the late Italian Ministry and the present drift of politics in Italy, which the writer views with serious alarm. “Pearl” goes on better than ever. There are some sweet verses and some important book-notices.
—Henry Lord Falkland having been brought into the House of Commons at a very early age, a grave senator objected to his youth, remarking that “ he did not look as if he had sown his wild oats.” His lordship replied with great quickness, “Then I am come to the fittest place, where there are so many old geese to gobble them up.”
—At one period of his life Seneca could repeat 2,000 words precisely as they had been pronounced. Gassendi had acquired by heart 6,000 Latin verses, and the whole of Lucretius’s poem, “De Rerum Nalura.” In order to give his memory sufficient exercise, he was in the habit of reciting 600 verses from different languages. Saunderson, another mathematician, was able to repeat all Horace’s odes and a great part of other Latin authors. La Crose, after listening to 12 verses in many languages, could not only repeat them in the order in which he had heard them, but could also transpose them. Pope had an excellent memory, and many persons have amused themselves by looking through his writings and pointing out how often he had brought it into play. He was able to turn with great readiness to the place in a book where he had seen any passage that had struck him. John Leyden had a very peculiar faculty for getting things by rote, and he could repeat correctly any long dry document, such as a deed or Act of Parliament, after having heard it read; but if he wanted any single paragraph he was obliged to begin at the commencement and proceed with his recital until he came to what he required. There was a French novelist, who, being, like our Richardson, a printer, composed a volume in types, and thus the book was printed without having been written. Bishop Warburton had a prodigious memory, which he taxed to an extraordinary degree. His “Divine Legation” would lead one to suppose that he had indefatigably collected and noted down the innumerable facts and quotations there introduced; but the fact is that his only note-book was an old almanac, in which he occasionally jotted down a thought. Scalinger obtained so perfect an acquaintance with one Latin book that he offered to repeat any passage with a dagger at his breast to be used against him in case of a failure of memory.
348
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, February 1, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and. others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above an,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Writing for the Scholastic.
We have often urged upon our students the great advantage of having a field wherein to exercise their pen, in writing for their college paper. Whether our suggestions have succeeded to any great extent in stirring up a praiseworthy emulation in this matter, we are not certain, but if they have resulted in drawing even a few from inglorious ease we will consider ourselves amply rewarded.
We have spared no pains, and have made no little sacrifice of feeling, and sometimes of interest, in order to give the younger students an opportunity of breaking the ice and appearing, in print, but if they do not follow up their first efforts they can never expect to excel in literary composition. Hereafter, when they have taken their place in business or in professional life, many will see—when perhaps it is too late—the advantages they are now neglecting. We know full well the great effort necessary in the beginning; it is not so long since we ourselves made that effort, or rather series of efforts, and we can sympathize with those who are now where we were then; but, we say, and will continue to repeat it, if anyone wishes to excel in literary composition those laborious efforts must be made, and persevered in. It will not do to give up at the first difficulties encountered; in this, as in other things, difficulties, and sometimes great difficulties, will be met; but these should not cause discouragement. If Washington at the sight of the miserable condition to which his army was reduced at Valley Forge—poorly provisioned, poorly armed, half-clad, the frozen ground purpled with blood from the shoeless feet of his soldiers—while the enemy, with more than double his numbers, were well-disciplined and had their every want supplied—if Washington at the sight of such disparity of numbers and means were to have given up in despair, the United States of to-day might still be but an over-taxed colony of England. If the stammering Athenian lad Demosthenes had less energy and persever
ance, the successful rival of the eloquent jEschines would to-day be unknown; if the unknown and humble toiler William Herschel, had not sacrificed hours of well-earned repose from his labors—nay, had not even denied himself the time for his meals—the name of the great optician and astronomer would not have been handed down to posterity. And so with all others of eminence in art and science. The fame which they have earned is the result of persevering exertions—humble at first in their results, but gradually extending until crowned with a success of which the toilers themselves had never dared to dream.
Many a student, although perhaps longing to obtain' renown as a scholar and writer, still cannot make up his mind to undergo the patient toil by which the hill of fame is reached. They possess the talent, and models are not wanting for imitation, but they desire to attain their object without labor. As a writer in the Scholastic once remarked, “ Few possess genius as defined by a celebrated English essayist: ‘A transcendent capacity for taking trouble.’ We overlook one important fact,—that the life of every truly great man has been a life of continual labor. We are satisfied with viewing the great, the exalted position on which they stand, never taking into consideration the bitter disappointments and discouragements they encountered and overcame before they gained their object. We are all willing to be employed in something great—something that will attract the attention of the world, but we have no desire to attend to the numerous small affairs, to remove the obstacles that check our way. What a delusion 1 It is small things that make up the sum of life. They are the stepping-stones by which we attain the summit of success. They are the foundations on which the illustrious of all ages have erected the structures on which rest their fame.”
Therefore we say to those who wish to acquire a good style of writing, attend to the small things; select your models carefully, both for matter and manner, and lose no time in trifling. Write often, but not too hurriedly—trying rather to do well what you do, than to do a great deal in a slovenly manner. When you have chosen a subject, do not immediately sit down to your paper; but con well the matter, turning it over and over in your mind, seeing how it will appear best; then bring together your facts and embellishments, and after arranging these, mentally, in a crude way, you can sit down to your essay with some hope of succeeding. It is not enough to scratch off some crude thoughts, or put together some loose facts. Many thoughts that are new to the essayist are old to others, and when these are presented in a slovenly or shabby dress the effect is anything but pleasing. Great care should therefore be taken in writing an essay. It is stated that one of the most brilliant writers of his day wrote his essays, or whatever else he intended to publish, on widely lined paper. He first wrote without any great regard to the wording of the phrases, and the sentences, and then going over his pages a second and third time, perhaps oftener, he moulded and remoulded each sentence and phrase until he gave it that polish and brilliancy which characterize his writings. After bestowing so much pains on his manuscript, it may easily be imagined that the pages must have been a mass of erasures, and it would have been next to impossible for anyone but himself, who had the clue, to get through the inky labyrinth of words erased and restored, and again blotted out to give place to others.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
349
Now if an historian and essayist of world-wide renown took such pains with his writing, and went over an essay three or four times, or oftener, we think our young tyros at college should not think it amiss, or time lost, to rewrite an essay five or six times—or even twice as often, if they see that they can further improve or polish it. An essay, like a mosaic, is a painstaking affair, if properly done, and its excellence will depend, in a great measure, on the time and pains taken with it. Ideas, language, everything that goes to form or embellish it, should be carefully chosen, and placed to the best advantage. In this way it was that the great masters of English composition wrote; in this painstaking way it was that they made for themselves a name and fame; and without so much painstaking their writings would not to-day command our admiration and be held up as masterpieces and models. Natural genius, it is true, had no doubt much to do with the excellence of their works, but without careful development of their inborn talents they would never have attained the excellence that places them in the first rank of literature.
But it may be said, or rather thought, by some, that if such painstaking and unremitting labor is necessary to excellence in literary composition, they will not attempt it; they will take their ease, and will .be satisfied with mediocrity—nay, will forego writing altogether, for that matter; it requires too much effort. Well, if you will have it so, abide by the consequences. The little acorn may be crushed beneath the foot, and that is the last of it; but if planted in the earth, it forms the embryo of the giant-oak, which for centuries will cast its shade over man and beast; the grains of wheat, if sent to the mill, give something less than their weight in flour, but if sown in carefully prepared earth, and cultivated and tended, they give their weight a hundred times told. So it is with the time spent in youth. Every year at college, after time only for an ordinary development of the mental faculties has been given, is considered as time lost, and the youth is withdrawn just when real mental culture has only begun; he has what is barely requisite, scarcely that,— but nothing of that vigor which continued culture gives, for the mental faculties, like the oak, require time to develop and give them strength. Therefore, before you decide, think of the utility, among other things, of an elegant, forcible style of writing, even when used only as an adjunct in the profession of your choice. Law, for instance ; or journalism; nay, even in business and friendly intercourse. In fact a person cannot be said to have an ordinary English education without it. And young men who held humble and obscure positions in life have often attracted attention and risen into the confidence of the wealthy and opulent by the good taste and general excellence displayed in a letter; so also with many journalists and writers of note.
But persevering effort is not confined to literature; as before remarked, it is necessary to eminence in any of the arts or professions. Take music, painting, sculpture termed the fine arts by excellence. How long must not the tyro in music thrum and thrum, and scrape and toot, before he can evoke from the passive instrument the entrancing strains that hold the hearer spell-bound; hours, days, weeks, months, and years elapse, and we find him still at his practice; so also with the painter and sculptor. The insensate canvas and stone give forth life and beauty only after long years of toil and practice with the brush and chisel. And writing is no less a fine art. Who has not felt its influence ?
It has created saints, and warriors, and statesmen; It has fired with animation the idle, stupid boy or youth, and given him no rest until he reached the pinnacle of fame; the callous, the hard-hearted and worldly-minded are often touched with the tale of woe as it comes from the inspired pen,—their heart again warms with the fire of charity, and their purse-strings open to the wants of the poor; the youth lost to virtue scans, as if by chance, the inspired page from some saintly hand, and the libertine thenceforward becomes a saint. Writing is, in truth, a fine art, and most powerful for good or evil.
Boys, young men,- do not decide hastily. Give not way to selfish indulgence, to inglorious ease, at the time of life in which your mental faculties—those God-given faculties which may be developed to such grand proportions, and with such gratifying results—are still pliant and capable of education. If the Press is to-day the lever that moves the world, it may be assumed that assiduity, determination —persevering industry, in a word, is the fulcrum.
Therefore, boys, cultivate the faculty of writing. It may be of immense service to you hereafter. It is a great accomplishment. We hope also that the young men of the College will not neglect it. The Scholastic is intended for their particular benefit, and we hope they will avail themselves of its pages. And when in after-time the grain or kernel now planted in our humble pages has sprung into a great tree, we feel sure they will thank us for this piece of advice.
Cincinnati Musical Festival Association.
PRIZE OF ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS OFFERED FOR A MUSICAL COMPOSITION.
To the Editor of The Notre Dame Scholastic:
The Board of Directors of the Cincinnati Musical Festival Association make the following announcement:
This Association was organized for the purpose of elevating the standard of music. In the three Festivals already given, it is believed that this object has in good measure been attained. The choral and orchestral works of the great masters have been worthily represented, and honest, healthy musical influences have been exerted upon large numbers of people. New works have been given upon these occasions. The Directors of the Associotion are, however, now convinced, that with the resources of soloists, and orchestra available for the Festivals, this is the proper field in this country for the display and encouragement of native musical talent.
The Association therefore offers a prize of one thousand dollars ($1,000) for the most meritorious work for chorus and orchestra, the competition for which is to be open only to native-born citizens of the United States. This work will be performed at the Fourth Festival, in the month of May, 1880.
Five judges will be appointed to decide upon the merits of the compositions presented for competition. Three of these judges, one of whom will be Mr. Theodore Thomas, will be nominated by the Musical Festival Association. The other two judges will be selected by the three whose appointment is already provided for.
Mr. Thomas will be the President of the Board of Judges.
The works offered for competition must not occupy more than sixty minutes in the performance.
The full score and a piano score of all works must be
350
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
placed in the hands of the President of the Board of Judges in Cincinnati, on or before October 1,1879.
The author of the prize-composition shall own the copyright of his work.
The Association will pay the cost of its publication, having direction over the same, making its own arrangement with the publisher for such number of copies of the work as it may require, which shall be free from copyright. The Association shall have the right of performance at any and all times.
If, in the opinion of the judges, there are two works of nearly equal merit, they shall have the benefit of private performance. The Association will pay the cost of publication of both works under uhe conditions mentioned in the preceding article.
These works will not be signed by their authors, but will bear a title which shall correspond to title in a letter of transmittal. Both composition and letter shall have upon its envelope a return address. The letter of transmittal of the work which receives the prize will not be opened until a decision has been reached, awarding the prize. This decision will be made public at the time of the performance.
No other letter of transmittal will be opened except that of the prize composition.
All other letters and works will be returned to the address upon the envelope.
Board of Directors:
Geo. Ward Nichols, Pres’t. Jacob Burnet, Jr.
Edmund H. Pendleton, Vice-Pres’t. Lawrence Maxwell.
John Shillito, Treas.	Carl A. G. Adae.
Charles P. Taft, See’y.	H. W. Brown.
Peter Rudolph Neff.
THEODORE THOMAS,
Musical Director.
Personal.
—	J. Mclnerny (Commercial), of ’76, is teaching school at Osborne, Ill.
—	W. A. Gray (Commercial), of ’75, is doing well at Des-moines, Iowa.
—	John Hafner (Commercial), of ’78, is attending school in Chicago, Ill.
—	Ed Pennington (Commercial), of ’77, is residing at New Orleans, La.
—	Joe Ott (Commercial), of’74, is in business with John Krebs at Portersville, Tenn.
—	T. J. Cochrane (Commercial), of ’75, is with Vegant, the architect, Chicago, Ill.
—	Frank Walter (Commercial), of ’78, is running a farm near Monroeville, Ohio.
—	John Murphy (Commercial), of’73, is book-keeper for his father at Lake View, Ill.
—	W. J. Cochrane (Commercial), of ’78, is in the City Collector’s office, Chicago, Ill.
—	H. W. Nevins, an old student, visited. Notre Dame on the 29th. His many friends here were glad to see him.
—	Brother Theodore, first prefect in the Senior Department, is laid up with a bad cold.
—	Chas. Ilgenfritz (Commercial), of ’68, is County Clerk of Butler County, Iowa. He was elected on the Democratic ticket.
—	J. L. Lemarie (Commercial), of’77, is in business with his father at New Orleans. His address is Office Letter F, Gallier Court.
—	Prof. Wm. Ivers left for New Orleans on the 27th of January, where he intends spending several days attending to business and visiting friends.
—Austin Cabel (Commercial), of ’67, was at Notre Dame,
on a visit, a few days ago. He, like all old students, received a hearty welcome from all.
/ —Frank Singler (Commercial), of’77, drove from his pome at Plymouth, Ind., last Sunday to have a teteA4ete with some of his old college chums.
/ —Rev. Z. Biever, of the Congregation of Our Lady of Sion, Jerusalem, is spending a few days at Notre Dame, visiting friends. The Order to which Father Biever belongs was founded by the celebrated Abbe Ratisbon.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney, the indefatigable missionary, arrived at Notre Dame last Tuesday afternoon, after having taken a short vacation at Watertown. Father Cooney will soon give a number of missions in various parts of the country.
/ A Fast Little Steam Yacht.
/ [We know that the following letter will be read with interest by the many friends of William Kelly, who attended class at Notre Dame in the year ’74.]
To the Editor of the Scientific American: I have noticed several articles in your valuable paper in relation to steam yachts, and send you the following, hoping that you will give it room .-
Last winter two boys, William and John, aged 17 and 19 years, sons of Daniel Kelly, both of them readers of the Scientific American, commenced work on a steam yacht, and although then at work in the shops of the Chicago Michigan Lake Shore Railroad, they worked nights, and toward spring the work was nearly completed. John, the younger of the boys, now gave his whole time to the boat, and in April she was ready for business. She is named the Susie Watson, and is 25 feet keel, 28 feet 6 inches over all, 6 feet beam, built of oak 1 inch thick, on oak frames 1^ inch by 1)^ inch. She has an upright boiler 24 inches in diameter, 52 inches high, with 90 one inch flues; her engine is 4J£ by 6; her wheel is 28 inches, 40 to 42 pitch, and with 100 pounds steam makes 300 turns per minute; she is capable of running 11 miles an hour, and has room for about 20 passengers. She has been used as a ferry on Muskegon Lake during the season, and from April 1st to December Sth made an average of 80 miles per day. This entire boat, including boiler and engine, was constructed by these boys, who are now building a much larger one for next season.	W. C. Wolverton.
Muskegon, Mich., December 30,1878.
Local Items.
—Classes will be resumed on Monday next.
—The Examination closed yesterday evening.
—Good skating on both lakes last Wednesday.
—Bulletins were made out on Wednesday last.
—Who will have the best percentage next week ?
—There are many good readers amongst the Minims.
—The Thespians are about beginning their rehearsals.
—There was a heavy thaw at the beginning of the week.
—The boys appeared to be well prepared for the Examination.
—The Minims were examined on Friday by a special faculty.
—They have stored away a large quantity of ice at the Novitiate.
—A great number complain of colds, owing to the changes of the weather.
—The “February thaw” came in January this year, as is usually the case.
—The boys had recreation in the refectory during the Examination days.
—Wq noticed that there were very few in the infirmary during the Examination.
—Making large snow-towers seems to be the favorite pastime with the Minims.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC/	351
f
ii -
, / —The Thespians will give an Entertainment on the eve ( of Washington’s Birthday.
\ ’ —There are generally many promotions at this time in the Preparatory Department.
—The students say that the board of examiners were more rigid this year than last.
/ —The cross on the banner at the Manual Labor School was made by one of the boys themselves.
—The walking in the beginning of the week was very disagreeable, owing to the big thaw we had.
—The election of officers in the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society will take place next Tuesday evening.
—The calciminers, painters, etc., have been busy this last week putting the Commercial room in good order.
—The boys at the Manual Labor School deserve great leredit for the beautiful banner which they have procured.
—Pipes for the organ in the St. Cecilians’ room have arrived, and will be put in their proper place in a few days.
—The Thespians will play on the 22d “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” dramatized for them by a member of the Association.
k —The recreations were prolonged a half-hour during the Examination days, and the boys seemed to enjoy themselves well.
—The singing in the church on Sundays is good, but it would be decidedly better if there was a little more effort made.
—The programme of the Thespian Entertainment for the 22d of February will be printed the Saturday preceding the day.
( —A musical soiree will be given next Thursday evening. It will take place in Washington Hall, so as to allow every one of the students to attend.
—We hope that all the students will commence the new session with the determination of studying well and progressing in their various classes.
—We notice a number of new faces in the Junior and Senior ranks. There has been quite an increase in both departments within the least two weeks.
—The psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are of the Purification of the B. V. M., page 125 of the Vesperal. In the morning the Missa de Angdis will be sung.
—Owing to the big thaw on Monday and Tuesday last, there was very little sleighing, and buggies were to be seen for the first time since the beginning of winter.
—The 13th regular meeting of the Society of the Holy Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Sunday, Jan. 12th. The usual five-minute instruction was given.
—The percentage which each student received in his different classes during the Examination will be read this evening by the Rev. Prefect of Studies, in the Senior studyhall.
—We have heard many remark that the answering of almost all the boys during the Examination was remarkably good. All speak of the Examination as having been a grand success.	"
—The St. Cecilians’ room, which has been undergoing a complete renovation for the past few weeks, is now finished and looks very fine. Indeed it is a credit to the Society , whose name it bears.
\ —A meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate ■J Conception was held on the 26th. The ten-minute instruction was given by Rev. J. M. Toohey. Papers were read by A. Caren and J. Nelson.
—The Juniors are bound to enjoy themselves in spite of rain, hail or snow. We stepped into their play-hall during the rain on Monday last, and found the boys as lively as if they were on the Campus engaged in a game of foot-ball.
—The boys enjoyed a fine skate on Sunday last, and undoubtedly many of them thought it would last for a while; but the rain on Monday covered the ice with water and prevented the boys from indulging in their favorite sport.
—Many seem to forget that the box in the corridor, near the Senior study-hall, is intended for all contributions to the Scholastic in the way of essays, personals, locals, etc.
We would like to see the box patronized a little more than it is.
—The 3d regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held January 25th. Master Jos. Courtney read an essay; declamations were delivered by Masters Rhodius, Courtney, Reinhardt, Garrity, Nelson, A. Coghlin, Jas. Courtuey, McDevitt and Hartrath.	■
—This (2%e Scholastic Almanac) is a clever and amusing compilation. Its contributor who affects the long foreign-looking name, and the learned-looking quotations, if he does not fritter away his intellect on such ephemeral trifles as the silver question, is bound to shine; critical disquisition is his forte.—The Catholic Times.
—Sadlier's Almanacs^y3 that the Scholastic is published at South Bend, Ind., and that the subscription price is $2.50! It also says the Ave Maria is published monthly! We do not know where the compiler got his information. Surely the publishers of the Almanac can scarcely expect the support of the public if all its matter is as reliable as the above.
—Professor Lyons has compiled and published the Scholastic Annual and Almanac for 1879. It contains astronomical and ecclesiastic calendars, information about rates of postage and other matters, and twenty-one selections from the pages of that brightest of college papers, the Notre Dame, Ind., Scholastic. It is now in its fourth year, and grows better as it grows older.—Catholic Herald.
—The Examinations closed this morning, and from all accounts a better semi-annual examination has not been held for years. This augurs favorably for the general examination in June, and if the students but do their duty as faithfully during the coming five months as they did during the first session, the June Examination will be a brilliant one, satisfactory alike to both faculty and students, and a credit to the College.
—The 10th regular meeting of the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held Januaty 29th. Papers were read by Masters Spangler and Deehan. The ten-minute instruction was given by Rev. T. E. Walsh. As the banner lately purchased by the Sodality was to be blessed that evening, Father Walsh made it the subject of his instruction, which was listened to with the greatest interest by everyone. After the instruction Very Rev. Father Granger blessed the new banner and handed it over to the Sodality. There were present at the meeting Very Rev. A. Granger, Revs. T. E. Walsh, P. Franciscus, J. Gleeson, and N. Stoffel.
—This {The Scholastic Almanac) is one of the neatest, best printed, and most methodically arranged almanacs that we have as yet seen during the current year. It con’ tains all the practical information about the Zodiac usually found in first-class almanacs, while a full calendar relating to fasts, feasts, saints’ days, etc., make it invaluable to church people. The literary matter is taken from the columns of the Scholastic, a bright, newsy college weekly, published at the University of Notre Dame. These almanacs, four editions of which have been published in as many years, do Prof. Lyons credit. Each one marks an improvement upon its predecessor, though they are uniform in general appearance and make up. Price, 25 cents.—Pomeroy's Democrat.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, M. W. Bannon, J. B. Berteling, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, T. Burns, J. G. Baker, J. F. Buchanan, Thos. Barrett, J. J. Coleman, G. P. Cassidy, Wm. Connolly, W. H. Claggett, C. J. Clarke, D. S. Coddington, Geo. Cochrane, E. Calkins, C. B. Cones, E. Dempsey, P. J. Dougherty, D. Donohue, L. J. Evers, A. J. Hertzog, J. P. Hagan, M. J. Hogan, J. T. Harrison, C. W. Hickerson, J. C.’ Herrmann, J. Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, A. M. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, P. B. Larkin, A. A. Lent, W. Murphy, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, R. P. Mayer, M. J. McEniry, J. J. McErlain, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, Geo. Palmer, Jas. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, Wm. Ryan, M. Reilly, 8. T. Spalding, J. J. Shugrue, Geo. Sugg, R. D. Stewart, T. W. Simms, John Simms, P. Shea, T. 8. Summers,.A. Scheiber, J. S. Smith, F. C. Smith, C. L. Stuckey, Ed Scheiferle, A Schaufert, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, F. X. Wall.
352
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. J. Burns, J. G. Brady, F. Becker, C. J. Brinkman, F. W. Bloom, G. C. Castanedo, H. E. Canoil, A. A. Caren, T. F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, J. V. Cable, G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, J. M. Eisenhauer, R. L. French, H. J. Fenner, E. F. Fogarty, M. L. Foote, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, F. T. Gaffney, H. G. Guynn. J. L. Halle, H. M. Haerly, J. Haney, W. G. Jones, J. Kurz, J. A. Lumley, T. F. McGrath, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, A. S. Manning, J. F. Mug, R. E. McCarthy, J. L. Nelson, H. G. Niles, J.-N. Osher, J. A. O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, R. E. O’Connor, E. B. Fiekenbrock, F. T. Pleins, A. P. Perley, F. B. Phillips, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, D. R. Reidy, A. S. Rock, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. A Seeger, G. M. Sehnull, E. G. Sugg, F. C. Scheid, J. K. Schoby, R. J. Simmes, C. P. Van Mouriek, E. S. Walter, A. F. Zahm, Frank Zeis.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. M. Coghlin, W. A. Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius, O. Farrelly, P. S. Fitzgerald, J. J. Gordon, C. H. McGrath, H. McDonald, W. Reinhardt, F. A. Campau, N. Nelson, F. Brady, G. Knight, J. S. Courtney, J. M. Courtney, J. B. Inderrieden, J. McGrath, C. Garrick, W. A. McDevitt, A. Hartrath, A. F. Chirhart, G. Tourtillotte, C. Crowe, G. Woodson, E. Howard, H. Orner, H. Snee, F. Garrity, J. Garrity, F. Parsons, E. Esmer, A. Schmuckle, T. Williams, A. Van Mouriek, A. Campau, J. S. Inderrieden, C. Welty, J. Crowe, H. Kitz, T. McGrath, J. Chaves, T. Reinboldt, P. Campau, W. O’Malley, F. Farrelly, L. Young, A. Chirhart,
JI. Wolf, 75; R. Williams, 79; F. Weisert, 78; E. Walter’ 64; C. Van Mouriek, 74; A. Zahm, 86; H. Guynn, 66.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. M. Coghlin, 99; F. X. Campau, 96; G. J. Rhodius, 98; N. Nelson, 95; G. Hartrath, 100; O. Farrelly, 99; W. Coghlin, 96; C. Crowe, 97; Jas. JI. Courtney, 95; Jos. S. Courtney, 96; F. Brady, 98; G. Woodson, 90; J. Orner, 93; G. Tourtillotte, 89; G. Knight, 98; W. Reinhardt, 95; W. A. JIcDevitt, 96; J. Inderrieden, 80; A.Chirhart, 97; J. JIcGrath, 95; P. Fitzgerald, 92; H. McDonald, 91; Chas. McGrath, 92; C. L. Garrick, 95; Jos. J. Gordon, 82; H. Snee, 99; H. A. Kitz, 90; W. D. Bachmann, 96; E. C. Esmer, 95; E. Howard. 94; E. Chirhart, 94; A. F. Schmueckle, 90; T . JIcGrath, 94; A. Rheinboldt, 85; Jos. Chaves, 96; A. Van-Jlourick, 90; J. Williams, 87; A. Campau, 92; P. Campau, 93; C. Long, 96; J. Inderrieden, 90; C. J. Welty, 92; W. O’Malley, 90; F. Parsons, 94; F. Farrelly, 90; F. Garrity, 90; J. Garrity, 87; L. Young, 90; J. Crowe, 95; Charlie Young, 80.

Examination General Averages.
(No general averages under 60 are published in the following lists.)
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, 83; W. Arnold, 80; J. Arentz, 63; John J. Baker, 83; J. Berteling, 90; J. Brice, 70; J. M .Byrne, 91; JI. T. Burns, 85; J. Burger, 99; J. Buchanan, 77.; F. Bell, 60; T. Conlan, 89; W. Connolly, 95; George Crawford, 83; A. B. Congar, 94; C. Clarke, 98; G. Cassidy, 96; W. Cox, 60; C. B. Cones, 71; E. Calkins, 77; M. Doty, 76; J. H. Delaney, 82; P. Dougherty, 92; D. Donahoe, 81; Edward Dempsey, 75; L. Evers, 98; JI. English, 78; J. li. English, 73; M. Hogan, 76; J. Herman, 90; J. P. Hagan, 95; Louis Horne, 83; A. J.Herizog, 96; Thos. Hale, 97; J. Harrison, 84; C. W. Hickerson, 71; J. Q. Johnson, 82; J. Krost, 76; Alx. Keenan, 92; R. Keenan, 83; J. P. Kinney, 98; Josehp Kelly, 68; P. Larkin, 91; J. B. McGrath, 86; JI. JIcEniry, 95; JI. J. McCue, 99.4; Wm. JIcGorrisk, 92; R. P. Jlayer, 80; J. McErlain, 75; W. J. JIurphy, 100; R. O'Brien, 95; W. O’Brien, 95; L. Procter, 73; S. Perley, 85; J. J. Quinn, 99.3; John P Quinn, 98; R. Russell, 100*; W. Ryan, 73; JI. Reilly, 75; R. Stewart, 89; G. Sugg, 90; G. Shugrue, 97; T. Summers, 85; A. Scheiber, 68; C. Stuckey, 87; P. Shea, 73; F. Smith, 76; J. Smith, 80; E. Schifferle, 80; T. Simms, 98; J. Simms, 81; S. Spalding, 99; O. Scbaufert, 90; S. Terry, 80; E. Walters, 65; C. Walsh, 91; F. Wall, 85; F. Williams, 80; W. JIegee, 69.
* Was examined in only 3 classes.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Adams, 74; T. Arthur, 85; J. A. Brady, 92; JI. J. Burns, 93; J. Boose, 86; F. Becker, 72; C. Brinkmann, 82; F. W. Bloom, 99.5; J. Casey, 82; B. Casey, 83; P. Crowley, 80; F. Clarke, 73; G. Castanedo, 89; H. Canoll, 69; A.. Caren, 91; W. D. Cannon, 83; G. Donnelly, 80; H. Devitt, 74; J. Devitt, 85; L. Dimick, 77; R. French, 78; H. Fenner, 90,- E. Fogarty, 73; JI. Foote, 85; J. W. Guthrie, 91; F. Grever, 85; F. Glade, 82; E. Gallagher, 60; J. Gibbons, 87; J. Halle, 77; J. Kurz, 93; J. Kennedy, 84 ; J. Lumley, 80; A. JIanning, 79; J. Jlug, 83; A. B. Mer-gentheim, 75; E. JIurphy, 89; T. F. JIcGrath, 80; J. L. Jlorgan, 82; W. J. JIcCarthy, 82; J. Nelson, 88; J. Osher, 81; , George Orr, 87; A. Payro, 74; F. Phillips, 92; J. Perea, 70; F. Pleins, 64; R. Pleins, 69; E. Piekenbrock, 81; P. Perley, 85; D. Reidy, 67; C. Riel z, 86; A. Rietz, 70; W. Rietz, 78; A. Rock, 87; K. Scanlan, 97; J. Scanlan, 73; J. Seeger, 80; G. Sehnull, 97; E. Sugg, 78; J. Schoby, 70;
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
The Examination of the Vocal and Instrumental Classes began on January 20th, and during the entire week gave satisfaction to visitors and teachers. Two hours every day were devoted to the examination; in this way the ordinary music lessons were not interrupted. In the lower grades, good position of hands, precision in time and notes, received the best marks; in the higher grades, technical skill, and phrasing. As the first grade will not be examined until after the general examination of the other classes at the Academy, the average notes, and promotions made are from the ninth to the second grades.
9th Class (composed of the little Jlinims)—Average notes from 60 to 65. Promoted to 8th Class, 2d Division, Jlisses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts, Alice King.
8th Class—Average, 70 to 80. Promoted to this Class, Jlisses JIartha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves.
7th Class—Average, 70 to 80. Promoted to this Class, Jlisses Elize Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart.
6th Class—2d Division—Average, 75 to 85. Promoted to this Class, Misses A. Donelan, P. Wolford, M. Ryan, M. JIcFadden, M. Glasser, JI. Fitzgerald.
6th Class—Average, 75 to 85. Promoted to this Class, Jlisses Hopkins, Maud Casey, A. Orr, E. Cavanagh, E. Dallas, Lulu Wells, JI. Feehan.
5th Class—2d Division—Average, 78 to 88. Promoted to this Class, Misses M. Garrity, A. Moe, A. Jones, M. Birch, L. Fox, JI. Hake, E. Thomas. Classed, Jliss C. Claffey.
Sth Class—Average, 78 to 89. Promoted to this Class, Misses Pam pel, JI. Plattenburg, C. Van Namee, L. French. Classed, Jlisses Hamilton and T. Torrent.
4th Class—2d Division—Average, 80 to 90. Promoted to this Class, Jlisses E. Gerrish, A. Hermann, A. Ewing, Zoe Papin. Classed, Miss Semmes.
4th Class—Average, 80 to 93. Promoted to this Class, Misses JI. English, K. Wells, E. Shaw.
3d Class—2d Division—Average, 84 to 95. Promoted to this Class, Jlisses Jessie Grover, C. Gall, G. Winston, C. Hackett, A. JIaloney.
3d Class—Average, 85 to 96. Promoted to this Class, Jlisses A. JIcGrath, M. Brown, A. Kirchner, M. Campbell, E. Lang, A. Farrell.	'	’
2d Class—2d Division—Average, 90 to 98. Promoted to this Class—Misses JI. Sullivan, H. Rosing, T. Killelea, L. Neu.
2d Class—Average, 90 to 100. Promoted to this Class, Jlisses A. Gordon and H. Buck. •
1st Class—2d Division—Promoted to this Class, Miss E. Keenan.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
853
Promoted to the 1st Class, Miss E. Galen.
The Harp Classes were excellent, and so well graded as to need no further promotion. Their music added to the variety of tone-pictures.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Average, 95-100. Promoted to this Class, Misses Clara Silverthorn, Genevieve Winston, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Average, 85-95. Promoted to this Class, Misses Annie Woodin and Alice Farrell.
4th Class—Average, 80-85. Promoted to this Class, Misses Emma Shaw, Mary Sullivan, Zoe Papin, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath, A. Ewing, Mary Birch.
5th Class—Average, 75-80.
The Examination on the closing day took the form of an Entertainment. Very Rev. Father Superior General, Rev. Father Shortis, Rev. Father Saulnier, Mrs. M. M. Phelan, and Mrs. Fitzgerald honored the young musicians by their presence. The following was the programme:
Song—“ Judith ”..............................(Concone)
Miss Geiser.
Le Rdve.....................................(Wallace)
Miss Sullivan.
Rondo in F................................(Beethoven)
Miss Rosing. Song—“Bird of the Greenwood”....................(Abt)
Miss A. Brown.
Illustrations from “Il Trovatore”.......(Wollenhaupt)
.	. Miss Neu.
“Caprice Hongroise”.....................(Wollenhaupt)
Miss Killelea.
“ Bird Song ”................................(Taubert)
Miss Gordon.
'• Lieder ohne Worte”—Hunting Song......(Mendelssohn)
Miss Welsh.
“Miserere ”..............................(Gottschalk)
Miss Gsselmann.
“ Ernani ”..................................(Prudent)
Miss Dillon.
Autumn Song...........................  (Mendelssohn)
Miss Usselmann.
“Ronclo Capriccioso ” (Op. 14)....  ...	.(Mendelssohn)
Miss Buck.
“ Apotheose” (Grande Marche Solennelle)... .(Gottschalk)
Song—“La Farfalletta ”.......................(Torrey)
Miss Silverthorn.
Overture—“Midsummer Night’s Dream”. ..(Mendelssohn) Miss Keenan.
“El Cocoye” (Grand Caprice Cubain)........(Gottschalk)
—The Roll of Honor, mentions in Languages and Art, are of the usual standing. After the Academic Examination, which began on the 27th, a full report may be expected.
—The Music Faculty of Notre Dame must be prepared to give a little time to j udge of the merits of the First Music Class—although their examination will take the form of a soiree. As music teachers, their criticism will be gratefully received.
—Classes in Christian Doctrine were divided into three bureaus, with Very Rev. Father Corby presiding at the first, assisted by Rev. Father Shortis; Rev. Father Zahm presided at the 2d, and Rev. Father Saulnier at the 3d. The Examination was from the Catechism and Bible History, and to say the whole was a success showed that attention had been paid to this “ foundation ” of all instruction by the Catholic pupils. From such a beginning, there can be no doubt or fear of the result of other studies. Professor Stace gave one of his erudite and instructive Lectures, which was justly appreciated.
—Among the visitors of the week were Mrs. G. G. French, of Milwaukee, Wis.; Mr. Rice, of Hudson, Mich. ; Mr. J. C. Herman, Miss Packard, Mr. Wheelock, and Mrs. Grant, of South Bend; Rev. L. Baroux, of Ecorse, Mich.; Mr. A. Cable, of Washington, Ind.; Mr. Chirhardt, Mr. and Mrs. Dugdale, Mr. and Mrs. Baumbert, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Evers, of Goshen, Ind.; Mrs. Col. Kinsey, of Chicago, Ill.; Miss Keeton, of Niles, Mich.; Miss E. Keene, of Lawrence, Mich.; Mr. I. M. Jerome, of Niles, Mich.; Mr. G. H- Jerome( of J^awrence, Mich-f Mr. tT. Don, of
Mishawaka, Ind.; Mr. F. T. Newton, of Yankton, Dakota; Mr. F. Belknap, of Niles; Miss Rathe, Mrs. J. M. Armstrong, Miss E. Talley, of Chicago.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Hope Russell,‘Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly.	'
1st Sr. Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Mary Danaher, Zod Papin, Anna Maloney, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Birch, Anna Woodin, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Casey.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Mary Brown, Ellen Galen, Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford, Annie Cavenor, Adella Gordon, Mary Piattenbnrg, Harriet Buck, Emma Shaw, Genevieve Winston, Agnes Brown, Alice Farrell, Mary Sullivan, Grace Glasser, Elizabeth Walsh, Elizabeth Sehwass, Catharine Lloyd.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Lucie Chilton, Annie McGrath, Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Emma Gerrish, Alicia Donelan, Ella Mulligan, Annie Jones, Margaret Carroll, Adella Geiser, Mary Mulligan, Catharine Claffey.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Feehan, Marie Dallas, Ellena Thomas, Ina Capelie, Julia Barnes, Caroline Hopkins, Mary Mullen, Kathleen Wells, Minna Loeber, Mary English.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Anna Herman, Teresa Zahm, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Mary Campbell, Mary Feehan, Linda Fox, Della McKerlie, Laura French, Annie Orr, Johanna Baroux, Mary Hake, Mary Ludwig, Mabel Hamilton, Charlotte Van Namee, Margaret Cleghorn.
Junior Prep.—Misses Catharine Campbell, Mary McFadden, Julia Wells, Julia Butts, Marie McN. Garrity, Mary Lyons, Maud Casey, Ellen Lloyd, Ella Cavanagh.
1st Jr.—Misses Ada Clarke, Marv Chirhart, Elise Lavoie, Mary Paquette, Jessie Pampel, Bridget Haney, Julia Cleary.
2d Jr.—Misses Jane McGrath, Martha Zimmerman, Blanche de Chantal Garrity.
3d Jr.—Misses Manuelita Chaves, Alice Esmer, Alice King.
■FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Nellie McGrath, Clara Sil verthorn, Annie McGrath.	’
2d Div.—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie.
3d Class—Misses Jessie Grover, 100 par excellence; Emma Shaw, Grace Glasser, Angela Ewing, Mary Brown, Ella Mulligan, Mary Casey, Elizabeth Kirchner, Zod Papin, Mary Mulligan, Mary Birch.
2d Div.—Misses Genevieve Winston, Louise Neu, Anna Cavenor, Anna Cortright, Annie Maloney, 100; Linda Fox, Julia Butts, Laura French, Agnes Brown, Mary Campbell.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Lloyd, Annie Jones, Mary English, Mary Feehan, Johanna Baroux, Adella McKerlie, Annie Orr.
2d Div.—Misses Ella Cavanagh, Margaret Cleghorn, Elise Dallas, Elize Papin, Sophie Papin, Addie Clarke, Mary Hake.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler.
2d Class—Misses Annie Herman, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon, Martha Pampel, Elizabeth Walsh, Elizabeth Sehwass.
3d Class—Misses Caroline Gall, Minna Loeber, Mary Ludwig, Ina Capelle, Alice Farrell, Louisa Kelly, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Alice Donelan, Mary Fitzgerald, Catharine Ward, Agnes Joyce, Adelaide Bisby, Sarah Purdy, Martha Zimmerman, Julia Butts, Maud Casey, Alice Esmer.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
■ 1st Class—Misses Genevieve Welsh, Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Marie Dallas, Ellena Thomas, Mary Campbell, Elizabeth Sehwass, Angela Dillon, Angela Ewing, Laura French, Mary Sullivan, Julia Butts, Minna Loeber, Sophie Papin, Ellen Mulligan, Maud Casey, Catharine Campbell.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class.—Miss Rebecca Neteler.	•
3d Class—Misses Marie Plattenburg, Agnes Joyce, Jessie Grover, Hope Russel.	-
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses Harriet Buck, Sarah Hambleton.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Slices Teres.a Zahjn, Agnes Brown, Marthg Pginpel, Cpthn
354
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Tine Danaher, Sarah Purdy, Ina Capelie, Jessie Grover, Grace Glasser, Margaret Carroll, Margaret Whealan, Annie Herrman, Adelaide Bisby, Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Alma Moe, Mary English, Minna Loeber.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Julia Wells, Linda Fox, Laura French, Charlotte Van Namee, Maud Casey, Julia Butts, Annie McGrath, Ellen Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Mary Paquette, Margaret Cleghorn, Mary Chirhart, Mary McFadden, Jane McGrath, Mary Lyons, Annie Orr, Marie McN. Garrity, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Elise Dallas, Bridget Haney, Manuelita Chaves, Elizabeth Con-sadine, Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Alice Esmer, Martha Zimmerman, Elise Lavoie, Mary Feehan, Bel Scott.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Annie Herrman, Alma Moe, Linda Fox, Aline Donelan, Agnes Joyce, Ollie Williams, Mary Hake, Della McKerlie, Margaret Carroll, Adelaide Bisby, Angela Dillon, Eleanor Thomas.
2d Class—Misses Grace Glasser, Sarah Purdy, Minna Loeber, Caroline Hopkins, Mary Plattenburg.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sarah Moran, Hope Russell, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan,Rebecca Neteler, Mary Birch, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Zoe Papin, Emma Lange, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Harriet Buck, Agnes Brown. Elizabeth Schwass, Emma Shaw, Genevieve Winston, Annie Ryan, Catharine Danaher, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Jessie Grover, Annie Cavenor, Elizabeth Kirchner, Genevieve Welch, Mary Usselman, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Adelaide Geiser, Emma Ger-rish, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Annie Jones, Margaret Carroll, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Ellena Thomas, Alma Moe, Ina Capelie, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Casey, Caroline Hopkins, Martha Pampel, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig, Mary Hake, Della McKerlie, Mary Campbell, Annie Herrman, Teresa Zahm, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrents, Ella Cavanagh, par excellence. Misses Ida; Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Annie Maloney, Alice Farrell, Catharine Lloyd, Angela Dillon, Minna Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Adelaide Bisby, Louisa Neu.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Ellen Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Maud Casey, Marie McN. Garrity, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary, Amelia Morris, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Mary Paquette, Alice Esmer, Manuelita Chaves, Bel Scott, par excellence. Misses Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn, Mary McFadden, Julia Wells, Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel, Elise Lavoie, Jane McGrath, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Alice King.
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
PUBLISHED DURING TERM TIME
AT
USTOTZRLE ZDJLZLEIE,
Subscription, $1.50 per Annum.
—Exhibits more journalistic industry, taste and skill, than any college publication we are favoredwitn.—Manhattan Monthly.
—We wish some of our professional journalists were half as clever as the Editors of The Notre Dame Scholastic, the beautiful little paper published at the University of Notre Dame, Indiana.— Boston Pilot.
—Our brave little college contemporary The Notre Dame Scholastic enters upon its Twelfth Volume. We wish it twelve times twelve of usefulness and prosperity; some one else can take up the wish at that time.—Catholic Universe.
—The rare ability of its editorial articles, the tact and good sense shown in its make up, and the admirable, even elegant character of its contributions and selections, have challenged our admiration, and we watch for its.visits with much interest.—St. Joseph Valley Register.
—Although The Scholastic is professedly a college journal, yet its columns abound with varied topics of a useful ana enjoyable character which, we are sure, will be just as acceptable to plaope jostling ’mid the crowd in the great world, as to those surrounded by classic walls— Catholic Union [Buffalo).
Among the Essayists whose contributions appear in The Notre DAme Scholastic we are glad to say,that the Elocution’Class and-the St. Cecilia Philomathean Societyjare'well represented.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo^, West Bide, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express..8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation..................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
University of Notre Dame,
Founded 1842.
Chartered 1844
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. 0., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	335
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov- 11, 187'7'.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	*KaL Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m	19 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 25 “	11 10 “	6 35 “	7 40 “	1 15 “
“ Niles 		10 45 “	12 15 p.m	8 12 “	9 00 “	12 35 am
“ Kalamazoo..	12 33 p.ro	1 40 “	10 00 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 45 “	4 05 “	♦Jackson Express.	12 50 a.m	4 45 “
Ar. Detroit		6 48 “	fi 30 “		3 35 “	8 00 “
		♦Day		tPacific	^Evening
	♦Mail	Express.	5 40 a.m	Express.	Express.
		■	8 40 “		
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	4 45 p.m	9 50 p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.n	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 13 p.m	2 38 “	4 30 a.m	2 53 “	12 35 a m
“ Niles		3 05 “	4 07 “	6 30 “	4 24 “	2 38 *•
“ Mich. City..	4 30 “	5 20 “	7 55 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 45 “
Wiles and. South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 -	6 38 *• Ar. Niles—	9 25 “ 715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. JSaturday and Sunday excepted. Henby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gan’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.	
C.	& N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska,'Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAT AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Free, port, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offiees-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Qen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, MaH.
Pittsburgh,	Eeave Rochester,	 Alliance,..".	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 a ji. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A ji. 10.12 “ 12.50 PJf. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 am. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,		7.50 am. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 1225 a ji. 2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “			
Lima,.						
Ft. 'Wayne,	 Plymouth	 Chicago,	Arrive					
GOING EAST.
	No. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Atlan.Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.30 a Jf.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,				2.46 AM.	11.48 “	8.55 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
Lima,.................	8.55 “	420 “	1 30 A.TW.	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.27 “	233 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “		
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 A.M.	605 am.
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,		2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester,			6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	9.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. NYEBS, G- P & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS. NEW YOKE to QUEENSTOWN and LIVEEPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITYOF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.	•
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. SALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York,
Or to JACOB WILE,
' Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent,
oct5-tf LaPorte, Indiana,
356
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for _/A_ St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weeklv Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D.	A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A. VJtU NIA-TITA, a Catholic Journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON* HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. EL x jn N, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
QCATLINGr CARDS-no two alike, with name ZltJ neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
'	Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic
ZiO At.-ma-wac. for 1879. Address J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN TTA-TUVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER	MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
r ■ 1I1OMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at X Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING «fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Hl.
JOHN F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office-65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
OTUVITumi T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61) Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «fc N£IIL,IL4TtT> (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
1	* -T ,T AM J. CL ARKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, V V Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. 0.
TAMES A.. O’REILLY—of ’69,—Attorney at Law el 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN T>. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DANIEL B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of ’70), Attorney
at Law. Special attention given to Collections, 98 Griswold
Street, Detroit, Michigan. '	sepl4-ly
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend follows:
i	GOING EAST.
J 2 35 a. m„ Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11	05 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 pm;
Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12	16 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4 am.
9	12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40 a m; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 50and 4 pm, Way Freight_____ GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 85 a m, Chicago 6am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago, 11 30 a.m.
'7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Haff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.				
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9.55 » 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ ' 6.10 “	3.20 p.m. 2.30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ 1.07 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ j.13 “ a.30 “ 7.25 “	Arrive	Leave. -	- Michigan City, - -- - - - LaPorte, - - -- - - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - -- - - Plymouth, - -- - - - Rochester, - - . -	- - - Denver, - - - -	- - - Peru, - - - -- - Bunker Hill, - - - -	- Kokomo Junction, - -- - - - Tipton,- - - - -	- - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - - -	- - -Cincinnati, - - -- - - Louisville, - - - -	-	Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12.40 p.m 1.17 “ 2.00 “ 2.22 “ 3 00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 p.m 8.55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ . 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 1212 a.m. 12 40 “ 1.01 “ 135 “ 216 “ 3 02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS. Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“	“ 9.00 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 noon. RETURNING Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	“	1110 “	- - -	“	“ 2 55a.m.				
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis I
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
E^”Berths $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis. Gen’l. Manager, Indianapolis
C. POLACK,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DEALER IN
Cigars and Tobaccos,
and a full line of smoker’s articles. Sole Agents for the Columbus 5 Ct. Cigars, warranted Handmade and Long Havanna filled. Give them a trial.
. Sign of the Big Indian.
6$ WwtengUm St,, SOUTH INDIANA,