Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlcturus; vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume IX.
NOTRE DAME,. INDIANA, MARCH 4, 1876.
Number 27..
*	Posthumous Fame.
!	(From “ Phidias to Pericles.”)
j	----
"	By W. W. Story.
What matters it, when I am turned to dust, When all emotions, joys, loves, passions, hope, Are vanished like a breeze that dies away, And all that I am now—these hands, this heart, This spirit—nay, the very friends I own, And all that lent this life its perfect charm, Are past and over; ah I what matters it What in the future men may say or do? Whether, disputing o’er my grave, at last They call me good or bad, honest or vile ? What joy can any verdict give me then, When I myself, and all who love me now, And all who hate or love me as well, Will be but mute insensate dust, whose ear No word of blame can reach, no word of praies ? And yet, even then, although it matters not, Truth, standing by my grave I trust, will say, Honest he was, and faithful to the last, Above low frauds, striving for lofty ends, Friend of the gods, and also friend of man, Doing his work with earnest faith and will; Not vaunting what he did, but knowing well Perfection is impossible in art;
Receiving with humility the praise The world accorded, wishing well to all, And never envious of his brother’s fame.
The Teutonic Knights. .
- The Order of Teutonic Knights, one of the most power-£	ful of the religious military orders, originated, like most of
t	the others, during the time of the Crusades. During the
i	siege of Acre, in the year 1190, the sufferings of the Crusad-
’■	ers were so great that a charitable association was formed
■	in the towns of Lubeck and Bremen for the purpose of
[	taking care of the sick and wounded in Palestine. As the
;	~ members of this society were noblemen, Frederick Bar-
barossa raised it to an Order of Knighthood, and confined ;	it to the members of the German nobility, giving them a
•	rule similar to that of the Templars, Hospitallers, and
others. As the Order was dedicated to the Blessed Virgin, the Knights called themselves also Brethren of the German House of Our Lady of Jerusalem. The dress of the members was black, with a white cloak upon which was worn a black cross with a silver edging. At first the Grand - Master, elected by the members, lived at Jerusalem, but when the Holy Land fell again into the hands of the Turks he resided first at Venice and afterwards, in the year 1297, ;■	' at Marburg.
In the course of time the Order of Teutonic Knights	- .
growing strong and powerful, made a number of conquests - . ' -and amassed much wealth. At the beginning of the fif--	“ :
teenth century it attained the highest degree of its prosper-.	' . <
ity. Its territory reached from the River Oder to the Gulf-of Finland, and its annual revenue amounted to eight hun- . dred thousand marks.	.	.
In the year 1229 the aid of the Knights was sought by the Poles in their encounters with the heathen Prussians,. The aid was given, and for fifty-three years they carried	’ -
on war, at last forcing the Prussians to acknowledge the	_
supremacy of the order and embrace the Christian religion.	’
They also reduced the Sclavonian countries along the	'
Baltic, extending their conquest with more rapidity after	_
the union of their Order with that of the Brethren of the „	-
Sword of Livonia in 1237. In the year 1309 the Grand	- 1
Master fixed his seat at Marienberg, in Prussia. The fame	.
of the Order now spread, and noblemen from all parts of	' .
Europe flocked to Germany to fight under its banners.	-
Among those who warred in the company of the Knights -was the Earl of Derby, afterwards King Henry IV, of England.
In the fifteenth century, internal dissensions, luxury and	~
unjust and oppressive acts threatened the decline of the	- -
Order, and a war with'the Kings of Poland hastened it. .	1
Its oppressions in West Prussia caused a revolt, and the in-	..
surgents called in the aid of the Poles. In the year 1410, in the battle of Grunwald or Tannenberg, the knights were	’
totally defeated by Ladislaus Jagiello; and through the fortune of a subsequent war with Casimir IV, West Prus-siawas ceded to Poland and the Order was compelled to.
hold East Prussia under Polish supremacy. The Order again came in conflict with Poland in 1525, and the result was that it was deprived of East Prussia, which Sigis- -	-
mund I gave to Albert of Brandenburg, as a hereditary - ' duchy, under the sovereignty of Poland. The Order now	" S
became a mere shadow of its former greatness. In 1527	’1 J
the Grand-Master fixed his seat at Mergentheim, in Suabia, -and became a spiritual prince of the Empire. The eleven	“ <;
bailiwicks, or provinces, were divided into commanderies, comprising together eight hundred and fifty square miles and containing about ninety-thousand inhabitants. By	'
the peace of Presburg, the Emperor of Austria became	i
Grand-Master of the Order and obtained its rights and	" •
revenues; but in the war of 1809 Napoleon abolished the „	J
Order at Ratisbon, its widely-scattered lands falling to the	- -i
princes in whose territory they were situated.	.	- 1
———---——, —— . - -:
—A couple of New England surgeons having recently	J
sailed for Europe, some of their fellow scalpel-slingers ‘ went down the harbor to wish them "bone voyage” They saw them off, you know.—New York Commercial Adver- .	.	<
User.
418
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Don Bartolommeo.
The Church has not only encouraged art, but the different religious orders have at times produced artists of high rank. This is more particularly so with the Order of Friar Preachers, in the annals of which may be found the names of many a friar who was skilled in painting. However, the subject of this sketch was a monk in the Carmelite Monastery of the Angeli in Florence.
Don Bartolommeo della Gatta was born in the year 1408. From his youth he was given to miniature painting, and, says Vasari, he “ displayed singular ability in all things relating to design. Of this we have evidence in the miniatures executed by him for the monks of Santa Flora and Lucilla, in the Abbey of Arezzo, more especially in those of a missal which was given to Pope Sixtus, and wherein there is a most admirable Passion of Christ; it is in the first leaf of the ‘ Prayers to be offered in private.’ ” There were in Vasari’s time others of great merit executed by Don Bartolommeo in San Martino, in the Cathedral Church of Lucca; but in our day none of the miniatures executed by him can be indicated with any certainty, because of the shameful manner in which the choral books of the numerous monasteries have been despoiled.
It was not a great while after the completion of these miniatures that Mariotto Maldoli, the General of the Camaldulines, conferred upon the artist-monk the Abbey of San Clemente of Arazzo and he became its abbot, and, grateful for the benefit, he labored zealously for the General of the Camaldulines. In 1468, he began to paint large figures, and, finding that he succeeded with them, he began the execution of various works. Vasari says: “ The first of these was a figure of San Rocco, which he painted on panel for the rectors of that brotherhood in Arezzo; this is now in the chamber of audience, where the members are wont to assemble. San Rocco recommends the people of Arezzo to the Virgin, and in this picture Don Bartolommeo depicted the piazza of the city with the holy house of the brotherhood, and a company of Becchini who are returning from burying the dead. He likewise painted another San Rocco, also on panel, for the Church of San Piero, and in this he depicted the city of Arezzo exactly as it was at that time, when it was very different from what it now is. Another picture on the same subject, but greatly superior to the two before mentioned, was painted by this master for the chapel of the Lippi family in the capitular church of Arezzo, and in this the San Rocco is a regularly beautiful figure, and almost the best that Don Bartolommeo ever produced; the head and hands could not possibly be more beautiful or more natural than they are. In the same city of Arezzo, and in the church of San Piero, where the Servites have their abode, this master painted a picture of the angel Raphael; and in the same place he executed the portrait of the Beato Jacopo Filippo, of Piacenza.”
Some years afterwards Don Bartolommeo was invited to Rome, where in company with Luca da Cortona and Pietro Perugino he painted in the chapel of Pope Sixtus. Afterwards he went back to Arezzo and painted a number of works. Among the best of these was his St. Jerome in Penitence, which he painted for the Chapel of the Goz-zari in the Cathedral Church; and his coronation of Our Lady, which he painted in fresco in the Church of Sant’ Agostino. In a chapel of the same church he painted a picture of the Assumption, and in the'.lunette over the door of the Church of San Donato in the fortress of Arezzo he
executed a picture of .the Virgin with the Child in her arms. In many of the churches and the abbeys in the neighborhood of Arezzo he executed a number of pictures, in one of which he painted his own portrait with those of certain canons of the city. For the Bishop of that city, with whom he was on intimate terms of friendship, he. painted frequently, and designed the Loggia which joined the palace to the episcopal church. This Loggia was, in the eighteenth century, enlarged by a succeeding Bishop.
In all parts of the city of Arezzo Don Bartolommeo executed paintings which were singularly beautiful and which receive high praise from Vasari. Of him, Vasari says: “DonBartolmmeo was a man of versatile genius; he
• was not only a great musician, but likewise constructed	।
organs of lead with his own hands, and in San Domenico he made one of mill board, which has preserved a sweet and good tone to this day. There was, besides, another in San Clemente, by the same master; this was built above the choir, but the key-board is in the choir below—a very judicious arrangement, seeing that the cloister is small, and, having but few monks, the abbot desired that the. or ganist should be able to sing in the choir as well as play the organ. The abbot, Don Bartolommeo, loved his Order he acted like a true minister, and not squanderer, of sacred things; he improved his benefice by various buildings, and bestowed on it many of his paintings. Among other services, was that of rebuilding the principal chapel of his church, which he also adorned with pictures; and in two recesses, standing one on each side of the chapel, he painted figures, one of San Rocco, the other of San Bartolommeo;
but both are now destroyed, as is the church itself.”
Don Bartolommeo died in his eighty-third year, in 1491,
“having added,” says Vasari, “new beauties to the art of s miniature-painting, as is manifest from all his works, and further evidence of which will be found in certain examples from his hand, in our book of drawings. His manner was afterwards imitated by Girolamo Padovano, in the miniature of certain books, which he adorned for Santa Maria Nuova in Florence, as it was by Gherardo, a Florentine miniaturist, and by Attavanie, who was also called Vante.”
Arehangelo Corelli.
A magazine writer has said that out of 1,000 published books, 600 never pay the cost of printing, etc., 200 just pay expenses, 100 return a slight profit, and only 100 show a substantial gain. Of these 1,000 books, 650 are forgotten by the end of the year, and 150 more at the end of three years; only 50 survive seven years’ publicity. Of the 50,000 publications put forth in the seventeenth century, hardly more than 50 have a great reputation and are re-	■
printed. Of the 80,000 works published in the eighteenth	4
century, posterity has hardly preserved more than were	I
rescued from oblivion in the seventeenth century. Men ' ] have been writing books these three thousand years, and	!
there are hardly more than 500 writers throughout the globe who have survived the outrages of time and the forgetfulness of man. The same may be said of musical composi-	i
tions and of musicians who one hundred years ago were distinguished; very few are now known to fame. To a certain extent, the subject of this sketch is among the num-	■
her, for outside the circle of professional musicians the number of those who have so much as heard his name are by no means numerous.	’
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
419
Archangelo Corelli was born at Fusignano, a small town in Italy, in the year 1653. From earliest youth he was distinguished as a composer and performer on the violin, making his studies under Simonelli, a singer in the Papal Chapel. In 1686 an ambassador was sent to Rome by James II of England, for the purpose of cultivating a good understanding with the Pope. His arrival was the occasion of much festivity in that city, and among other entertainments was a grand musical festival given by Christina, the ex-Queen of Sweden, who had taken up her residence there. At this festival a grand allegorical opera was performed. It was written by the celebrated poet, Alessandro Guidi, and set to music by Bernardo Pasquini. The drama, which may be found in the collection of Guidi’s poems, is, according to the taste and style of the times, of an allegorical nature, and the characters are London, the Thames, Fame, a good and evil genius, with a chorus of one hundred singers. The orchestra consisted of one hundred and fifty performers ; Corelli, as the greatest violinist of the time, was selected leader of it. .
Somewhere about the year 1700, Corelli became the leader of an opera band in Rome. He was then and during the remainder of his life in high favor with Cardinal Ottoboni, distinguished as a liberal and enlightened patron of poetry and the fine arts. Every Monday evening Corelli conducted the musical entertainments given by the Cardinal at his palace. Here he became acquainted with Handel, of whom and Corelli the latter’s biographer relates the following anecdote. “ One evening a serenata composed by Handel, entitled. “ Il triomfo del Tempo” (afterwards brought out in London, with English words, under the title of “ The Triumph of Time and Truth”), was
j

ri
1
performed. Corelli in leading the band did not play the overture to the satisfaction of the composer, who with his usual impetuosity snatched the violin out of his hand. Corelli, with that gentleness which marked his character, merely said:—“My dear Saxon, this music is in the French style, which I do not understand.’ ”
The best and most popular of Corelli’s works, his solos for the violin, were first published at Rome in 1700, and dedicated to Sophia Charlotte, the Electress of Branden-burgh. An English musical critic says: Corelli’s concertos are still performed now and then at the concerts of ancient music. Though they are no longer calculated to show off the bow and fingers of the principal violin-player, yet their effect, as symphonies for a numerous orchestra, is excellent, and never fails to delight the audience. Their melody is flowing and simple, and of a kind which is independent of the changes of fashion. The harmony is pure .and rich, and the disposition of the parts judicious and skilful. The eighth of these concertos, composed for the purpose of being performed on Christmas Eve, has probably had more celebrity than any piece of music that ever was written. It is exquisitely beautiful, and seems destined to bid defiance to the attacks of time. The whole is full of profound religous feeling; and the pastoral sweetness of the movement, descriptive of the “shepherds abiding in the fields,” has never been surpassed, not even by Handel’s movement of the same kind in the Messiah. If ever this divine music is thrown aside and forgotten, it will be the most unequivocal sign of the corruption of taste and the decay of music in England.”
The concluding years of Corelli’s life were melancholy. Younger players began to excel,him in power of execution, and the mortification which he suffered on this account so
preyed on his sensitive mind as to shorten his days. He died in the first part of the last century.	.
The writer above quoted says that: “ For many years after the death of this great musician its anniversary was commemorated by a solemn service in the Pantheon, in which pieces selected from his own works were performed by a numerous orchestra. Sir John Hawkins mentions that in 1730 an eminent master of his acquaintance was present at the ceremony, who stated that the third and eighth concertos were performed by a band containing many persons who had been pupils of the composer. These pieces, he added, were played in a slow and distinct manner, without embellishments, and just as they are written, whence he concluded that this was the style in which they had been executed by Corelli himself. This solemnity continued as long as his immediate scholars survived.
“ On Corelli’s personal character all writers agree in bestowing the highest praise. His disposition was mild and gentle, and his life exemplary. He appears to have been modest and sensitive even to a fault: a portion of that firmness and self-possession which ought to be produced by a consciousness of merit would have prevented the cloud which settled upon his latter days. The mildness of his temper, however, did not hinder him, when he felt it necessary, from vindicating the respect due to himself and his art. When he was performing a solo at Cardinal Otto-boni’s he observed the Cardinal himself engaged in talking with another person, on which he laid down his instrument; and, being asked the reason, he replied that he feared his music interrupted the conversation.”
Origen.
Origen, who, because of his inflexible zeal and untiring diligence, acquired the surname of Adamantius, was bom in Alexandria in the year of grace 185. His father, Leonidas, was a zealous Christian, and early instructed Origen in the teachings of his religion and in science, and then placed him in the catechetical school of Clement of Alexandria, and afterwards in the school of Ammonius Saccas, where he distinguished himself. Not only was he instructed in the sciences, but by his father’s command he gave much time to the Scriptures each day, committing to memory a number of sentences from them, which he recited before he began his profane studies. Often, as Origen slept, the father approached the bed where the son slumbered and kissed his bosom with respect as a sanctuary where dwelt the spirit of God.
When Origen was in his seventeenth year, the persecution under Septimus Severus broke out at Alexandria. Leonidas was one of the first to be arrested, and when Origen heard of his father’s imprisonment neither the tears nor supplications of his mother could prevent him from offering himself a captive. What she could not do ' by tears, she effected by stratagem; and the young man, unable in decency to leave his home, could only write to his father and exhort him to remain firm. St. Leonidas was martyred, the property of the family confiscated, and the widowed mother with a family of six children was forced to look to Origen for support. This he did by giving instructions in grammar. Such was his reputation that when but eighteen years old he was invited to succeed Clement in the catechetical school and teach the believers of his city, most of whom were older than he. Males and
420
/THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTICS
females crowded to his school, where, though at first he taught the profane sciences, he afterward confined himself to religious and scriptural instructions. He became ascetic in his manner of life, refused pay for his teaching, sold his library of pagan authors, slept upon the ground, wore but one garment, gave up all stimulating drinks, labored incessantly, and taught not only in the house but as he walked the streets. His sanctity and learning brought him many pupils, many of whom afterwards became distinguished in the Church. This sanctity, learning and success in teaching brought upon him the vengeance of the persecutors, but in spite of the clamor of the rabble he continued his work.
On the death of Septimus Severus he made a visit to Rome. On his return, that he might have the time to write a work on the Scriptures, he divided the work of instructing the catechumens with Heraclas, a distinguished scholar and philosopher, while he devoted most of his time to the study of Hebrew.
In the year 218, the Empress Mammsea, who it appears admired Christianity, having heard at Antioch of the great fame of Origen, sent an escort of honor to Alexandria to escort him to her palace at the former city. He made such an impression on both the Emperor and the Empress that the persecutions declined. On his return to Alexandria he set to work, at the request of Ambrose, a wealthy citizen, to compose his commentaries and also his “Defence of the Christian Religion against Celsus the Philosopher.” He was called by the Greek churches to combat the heresies of the Montanists and of Noct us, which were making great ravages in the East. He responded to their call, and holding conferences in the various cities he confounded the heretics by the clearness of his arguments. Defeated by the eloquence of Origen, they revenged themselves by changing the published reports of the controversies and attributing to the Catholic doctor opinions and reasonings which he had never uttered. The Bishops of Palestine were so charmed by his learning and sanctity that they imposed hands on him and ordained him priest in the fortieth year of his age. This was the source of much trouble to Origen, for Demetrius, Patriarch of Alexandria, took umbrage at the irregular proceedings. After much troubleand long negotiations, Demetrius being dead, Origen returned to his native city, and enjoyed the tranquillity which his learning deserved for him. This was in the year 231. Gregory Thaumaturgus and his brother Athen-adones employed him as their instructor; but the persecution of the Christians by Maximin forced him to remain for two years in concealment. When peace was restored to the Church by Gordian in 237, Origen took advantage of it to travel to Athens. He then repaired to Arabia, to which the Bishops of the province had invited him to refute Beryllus, who taught that the Divine nature of Christ did not exist before His human nature. Such was his eloquence and power of reasoning that Beryllus recanted and thanked him for his instructions. By the same Bishops he was called to a council which they held against certain heretics who maintained that death was common to soul and body. Origen spoke on this subject with such power as to gain them all over to the Catholic doctrine. In a new persecution under Decius, Origen was regarded as a pillar of the Church, and was thrown into prison, where he was subjected to many cruel sufferings. Exhausted by their severity, he died at Tyre in the year 254. His tomb was preserved for many centuries in the city of Tyre, and
was only lost when that city was destroyed, during the Crusades.
The writings of Origen were very voluminous, most of them being lost. Of those now extant, the principal are the “Hexapla” and “Octapla,” commentaries on the Scriptures, “ On Principles,” On Prayer,” “ On Martyrdom,” and his eight books “Against Celsus.” Few men have been so much esteemed and admired, and yet attacked with such virulence, and persecuted with such severity both during his life and after his death. He was accused of having attempted to blend the Christian doctrines with the notions of Plato; particularly in his book “ On Principles,” directed against heretics; but he gives his opinions only'as a possibility, and the heretics of his own time, as he himself says, corrupted his writings.
There has been much contention among theologians as to the orthodoxy of Origen. In the fourth century the Arians appealed to his authority to prove the truth of what they taught, but when we recollect that opinions were attributed to him which he never held, this fact does not argue conclusively against him. The most learned and the most celebrated of the Fathers of the Church have been found both among his friends and his opponents.
The Carnival.
In Italy and some other countries there is a festival which takes place on three days immediately preceding Lent, and which is known as the Carnival. More especially was the Carnival kept in Rome and in Venice, though in other cities it was celebrated to some extent. The name evidently comes from the Latin carni vale, farewell to meat, as from Ash Wednesday, the first day of Lent, a strict fast is observed for forty days. There is much dispute concerning the origin of this festival, but the probable opinion is that it comes down from the Saturnalia of pagan Rome, modified by the early Christians into a feast preceding the great fast of forty days, which is of early origin. The carnival has been celebrated with more or less splendor in all countries, though it is now falling into neglect. The only relic of it existing in England or North America consists in the observance of Shrove Tuesday. An attempt to in-: troduce the mummeries of the carnival has been made in New Orleans, but not with any extraordinary success. It seems strange that a festival which the clergy of Rome have labored for so many years to do away with, should be partially revived in a city in America.
In Paris the carnival begins five or six weeks before Ash Wednesday, and is marked by the frequency of masked1 balls both in private society and in the places of public : amusement. Balls in these latter places, to which the pub- -lie were indiscriminately admitted, were first permitted by the regent duke of Orleans in 1715. A late writer says: “ During the festivities, masks appear in the streets only on the Sunday, Monday and Tuesday preceding Lent, and at Mi-Cardme or midlent Thursday. On these days a number of persons in disguise, many of them masked, and exhibiting * all sorts of folly, parade the streets, principally the northern ■ Boulevards, and immense crowds in carriages, on horseback, or on foot, assemble to witness the gayeties of the scene. The carnival was prohibited in 1790, and no more celebrated until the appointment of Napoleon Bonaparte as first consul. Its restoration was a cause of great joy to the Paris--ians, and for some years nothing could exceed the beauty >
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	421
and richness of the costumes displayed upon this annual festival; but it has now lost many of its charms, and the masks are comparatively few. After parading the streets, the masks repair for the night to the various masked balls of every description which then abound in the capital. The public masked balls take place on fixed days throughout the carnival, being given at almost all the theatres; the most select being at the opera houses, where they commence at midnight and are kept up until daybreak. A motley throng of jaded maskers of both sexes may then be seen ibr an hour or two about the Boulevards, and swarming in the caffis to breakfast. Citizens and strangers have the privilege of going to these balls in plain clothes and un_ masked, although the ladies generally appear with masks and fancy costumes. The procession of the bauf gras (the fat ox) has for ages past been celebrated at Paris, on the Sunday and Tuesday before Lent, when the government prize ox, preceded by music, and accompanied by a numerous train of butchers fantastically dressed, is led through the streets. The ox is covered with tapestry, and his head adorned with laurel. Formerly the ox bore on his back a child, called roi des touchers (king of the butchers), decorated with a blue scarf, and holding a sceptre in one hand and a sword in the other. He now follows the ox in a triumphal car, but without his sword and sceptre.”
In Italy, the carnival is much the same in all the cities, though in Rome it was more brilliantly celebrated than in other places. Of it the same writer says: “ It extends over the eleven days which immediately precede Ash Wednesday, though only eight days are actually given up to its festivities, the two Sundays and Friday not being included, from motives of religion. The festivities are held in the Corso, and the street immediately adjoining, to which the show is confined. The Corso is about a mile long, but very narrow, being on an average only about 35 feet broad, and lined by lofty houses, nearly all of which are built with overhanging balconies, with especial reference to this spectacle ; and where permanent balconies are wanting, temporary structures of wood are frequently erected. Thus persons on opposite balconies are brought within speaking distance, or near enough to exchange bouquets and sugarplums. The street beneath is densely filled with carriages and foot passengers, and all are brought so close together as to act and react upon each other. The sport does not last through the whole of each day, but only from about 2 o’clock until dark, during the short days of February. If the weather is favorable, as much of the exhilaration of the scene depends upon sunshine, a stranger will on first beholding the carnival become madly excited and fully enter into its spirit in spite of himself, solemn as his deportment may usually be. The dull and sombre fronts of the houses seem suddenly to have put on liveries of blooming colors. Pieces of brilliant cotton, cloth, or silk, red, yellow, and blue, are hung over the balconies, while innumerable streamers of the same hues flutter in the breeze. Far as the eye can reach, the balconies are crowded with innumerable spectators, many of them beautiful and gayly dressed women. The course below is thronged with two rows of carriages, moving in opposite directions and filled with gay parties; while crowds of pedestrians mingle among the vehicles, who, clad in every variety of costume that ludicrous fancy can suggest, and masked, play every imaginable prank within the bounds of decency. A dozen masks will sometimes gather together on the back of a carriage, regardless of the occupants, vociferating in a leash of lan
guages, and one and all in the street or on the balconies engage with heart and soul in pelting others far and near with flowers, bonbons, and confetti. For some time before the carnival begins flowers are brought into Rome in exhaustless profusion, and exposed for sale in such quantity and choice as to meet the caliber of every purse; costly bouquets of hot-house flowers being ranged side by side with the wild growth of the Campagna. The bonbons are not so abundant, but still are used extensively; while the confetti, which are nothing but pellets of lime about the size of a pea, are scattered in myriads, and form quite a serious weapon of attack, especially if suddenly dashed into the face, as they often are from the hand, or blown out of a tin tube. The coating flies off these confetti into lime dust, with which persons become so covered from head to foot as to resemble millers.
“ Every day.of the masquerade the Corso becomes more crowded and more animated, till on the last the number and spirit of the masks, the skirmishes of bonbons and lime dust, and the shouts and enthusiasm of all, surpass description. Of the mass which elbow one another through the crowded streets, the greater part are in their ordinary garb, though disguises are common enough not to attract any particular notice. Among the most usual masks are Punchinellos with enormous noses, and protuberant backs and stomachs; harlequins in particolored vestments, with daggers of lath; and pantaloons indulging their usual propensity for thieving by snatching bouquets from the hands of those in passing carriages. Quack doctors are numerous, with catalogues of nostrums for all imaginable diseases, and lawyers in gowns and wigs whose demeanor Portia could scarce excel. Some of the masks carry an inflated bladder on the end of a stick, with which they deal noisy but harmless blows. Beside the carriages such as are seen every day, many are put together for the occasion merely, and consist of frame-work resting on wheels, and made to assume various shapes, such as ships or moving forests. Old dwellers in Rome compare the insignificance of the present carnival with its splendor in the past, and tell of pageants representing eastern monarchs followed by their trains of African slaves; cars of victory with laurel-crowned Caesars; Roman processions copied from those of the ancient city; the triumph of Bacchus, surrounded by Silenus and all his crew of drunken fauns and delirious Bacchanals, which, used to parade the Corso.”
Every day of the carnival there is a race of horses without riders. The animals are goaded by metal balls full of sharp points which are fastened to their trappings. At every motion of the horse they pierce the flesh, and as they . feel them they run the faster. Madame de StaSl, speaking of these horses says: “They arrive with neither bridle nor saddle, their backs only covered with brilliant stuffs, and conducted by gayly dressed grooms, who manifest the most impassioned interest in their success. They place the steeds behind the barrier, and their impatience to be free is excessive. This ardor of the horses, the cries of the grooms, make at the instant of the barrier’s fall a real dramatic act. The horses dash forward, the grooms cry ‘ Room! room!’ with indiscribable transport. They accompany their steeds with gesture and voice as long as they can see them. The horses are as jealous of each other as the men. The pavement flashes fire beneath their hoofs, their manes stream upon the wind, and their desire to gain the prize, thus left to themselves, is so great that some on arrival at the goal drop dead from the fury of the race. One is as
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tonished to see these loose horses thus animated hy per son al passions.
It was in order to do away with the follies of the Carnival that the devotion known as the “Forty Hours” was first instituted at Milan and afterwards introduced at Rome hy St. Philip Neri and since approved hy the Church.
Drawing. '
As a general rule, in this country most persons consider the study of music more important in the education of their children than drawing. This may account in part for so few being occupied with this agreeable study. No one will deny that its influence is refining, and that our homes are beautified by well-drawn pictures. Music is a source of intense pleasure to many, and is said to be the language of the soul; but drawing is a universal language, understood alike by people of every tongue. The eye contributes more to the enjoyment of the soul than the ear, hence it follows that drawing is of more Value than music, and a student by its aid gains knowledge that he could never learn by words.
Witness, for instance, map-drawing, illustrations in natural philosophy, and in all the natural sciences; while in the mechanic arts its use is indispensable. Drawing, generally and thoroughly taught and practiced in colleges, and in schools—in many of which it is never introduced —would lead to much useful thought, and to many valuable discoveries in every department of human knowledge, for the skilful delineator sees and observes much that escapes the notice of others. Hence every institution of learning should have its department of drawing.
The best model for the student to draw from is Nature. It will educate the sense of the beautiful, and open the eyes and soul to the beauties of creation. When drawing comes to be understood and appreciated according to its intrinsic merits, its rank must be first among the most useful and the noblest of studies.
It should no longer be regarded as a mere ornament or accomplishment to be enjoyed only by the few, but as a most useful branch of education, to be acquired and enjoyed by all, and the institutions that take the lead in this noble work will gain not only pecuniary profit, but the sincere approval of all who appreciate efforts that are devoted to the solid advancement of youth.	•
The Novel-Beader.
’ Among all the books that are now read, it will be found that novels exceed any other class in number, and even as novels the greater part of these are of the very worst kind.
The average novel-reader of to day, in looking for a book to read, will never think of taking up an historical or moral novel, such as one of Dickens’ or some other good author No: to such as he Dickens is nowhere compared with Beadle, Frank Starr, and some others of those “blood and-thunder” writers. The book to attract them must have an illuminated cover, with a terrible picture on it; the title also must be as terrible as can be imagined; and as for the plot, it must consist in at least a score of murders, suicides, abductions, etc.
Some idea of the novel-reader may be obtained by a
conversation I overheard the other day. It was as follows i “Joe, what book are you reading?” “ Wild Nate of the Gulch.” “Is it good ? How many men killed so far ?” “ Only eight so far, but I have only read ten pages.” “I’ll bet it’s a good one. Let me take it when you’ve finished it, will you?” “Yes.” Then the enquirer is entirely satisfied when he thinks that in a short time he will be deeply interested in “Wild Nate.”
Novel-reading of any kind is, in most cases, simply a dissipation of the mind, and rarely does the reader any good, and very often unfits him for life as it really exists. All the idea he has of the future is that he shall fall in love with some wealthy heiress, or she with him, and after innumerable confiictsand stratagems, in all of which he comes out victorious of course, he will win her for his bride and then live happy ever after. Our lunatic asylums are now the homes of many just such people, who spent their time in reading just such trash. Literature of this kind does very nearly as much harm to man as whiskey, and it is certainly more hard to work against: for if you should ask many of these novel-readers to take a drink of whiskey they would refuse, and vow that they never would drink whiskey, as by so doing they would injure their brain. Oh no! but they would read a whole library of Beadle novels, and never consider that they had harmed their brain in the least !
Another argument in favor of whiskey versus novelreading is that whiskey is of some use in some circumstances, while novels are of no earthly good to any one in any circumstances whatever. As a general thing, the “ novel-reader” is a lazy, dreamy, good-for-nothing’fellow ; and if he has to work for his living his work is only half done, and he will be continually cursing his bad luck in his being born poor, and his lack of adventures in life. If a young man wishes to get along in life, and be prepared to meet all kinds of fortune, the less novel-reading he does the better it will be for him.
Sullie.
How One Should Write a Composition.
There are two ways of writing a composition, the right way and the wrong way. And as a general rule, the latter is followed by school-boys. For they consider a composition simply as a labor imposed upon them by their Professor they write it simply because they are compelled to do so, and in order to finish it the sooner they immediately treat their subject, without the least reflection, or consideration. It may be well therefore to make a few remarks on the manner in which one ought to treat a subject he intends to write upon.
The first thing necessary is to choose a simple subject, one which he feels he can master to a certain degree, and not one of which he has no knowledge. This being done, he should reflect on its nature and character, and have a particular end in view; for when he has no end in view he is writing simply for the sake of length, and his composition well be devoid of unity, which is the great beauty of a composition. Unity of thought, and likewise of expression, is absolutely necessary, and should always be kept in view. If he is able, he should make use of rhetorical figures, which are, as it were, the ornaments of an English composition. His expressions should be clear and simple, and he should always observe the rules of grammar, for if these are wanting his composition will be worthless. By saying his words

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
423.
should be simple, I do not mean to say that he should not make use of flowing and flowery language. No; all these different things are necessary to render his style agreeable. But he should guard himself against the use of too many flowery words, which would render his composition quite monotonous, and the style would also seem affected. Persons may remark that all these things are good to say, but quite hard to put into execution. This I acknowledge; but I would beg him to remember that the road of Science is like that of Heaven. It requires patience and perseverance; and if he fails sometimes, he should take courage and labor on. And he should always remember the schoolboy’s motto, “ Never give up, but try, try again.”	A. J. H.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The Academy of Fine Arts, Paris, has appointed for the year M. Meissonier president, and M. Francois-Engrever vice-president.
—The French government has authorized the expenditure of two million and odd francs for the restoration of the Cathedral of Rheims.
—The colossal statue of Marschner, the composer of The Jewess, The Templar, and The Vampire, is about to be inaugurated in front of the Royal Theater in Hanover.
—There are at present 614 students at the Catholic University of Innsbruck, of whom 170 are studying Theology, 179'preparing for the bar, 62 studying medicine, and 203 Philosophy.
—A volume on “King and Commonwealth,” a history of Charles I and the great rebellion, by B. M. Cordery and J. S. Philpotts, one of the editors of the “Epochs of History,” is to be published in this country.
•—Longfellow's “Evangeline” has been translated into Portuguese blank verse by Don Miguel Street d’Arriage, a native of the Azores. The manuscript translation has been submitted for correction to Mr. Longfellow.
—An international fine art exhibition is to be held at Brussels in 1830. It is intended to have it of a retrospective character, and to make it represent the artistic movement of the whole world since the last London exhibition.
—Under the title of “Fu So Mimi Bukure—A Budget of Japanese Notes,” Messrs. Trubner & Co. will publish a volume by Capt. Pfoundes, of Yokohama, treating, of the religion, customs, dreams, ceremonies, language, institutions, etc., of the Japanese.
—An unpublished play by Lord Lytton has been discovered, and will be published in the collection of his dramatic works which Mr. Charles S. Kent is now engaged on. An unfinished historical romance by Lord Lytton is soon to be published, accompanied with a preface written by his son.
—Hiram Powers’ great statue, “ Paradise Lost,” was recently sold at auction for §9,000. This was the last work of Powers, his death occurring soon after its completion. A previous statue, “Eve Tempted,” had not satisfied the artist, and in the later work he desired to express the sorrow and remorse of Eve after her sin. The statue gives evidence of much artistic power and originality of idea.— American Art Journal.
—A curious library is to be sold at Vienna. The late Franz Hardinger was a hotel-keeper, inheriting both his business and bibliophilist tastes from his father. He was an authority on German literature, and his library of 21,000 volumes included every edition of the German classics. It was also rich in old German plays, and included a unique and perfect collection of Vienna play bills, etc., from the beginning of the last century to the present day.
—Mme. Gasparin having presented to the library of Boissenoix, France, a copy of her late husband’s book, “The Schools of Doubt and the Schools of Faith,” re ceived from its director, M. Geroal, a letter of thanks, ac companied by the statement that the book had been immediately burned. The letter read: “How pleasant, now
the mornings are chilly, to warm one’s fingers with M. de' Gasparin’s books! They bum splendidly. Once more, thanks, madame.”
—The sixth concert of the Russian’ Musical society, of Moscow took place on the 31st of December. The principal attraction was Anton Rubinstein, who played his fifth, concerto, and, in conjunction with his brother Nicholas, a duo with variations for two pianos, also his own composition. On the 3rd of January Anton Rubinstein gave a brilliant matinee in La Salle de la Noblesse. The hall was crowded and the public manifested their enthusiasm in the most boisterous manner.
—The Roman corespondent of the Philadelphia Catholic Standard says: “ Among the different means of stemming the tide of incredulity, the Oleographical Society of Modena is conspicuous. Its object is to produce oleograph copies of the religious masterpieces, in which Italy is so rich, present them to poor churches, and' also to poor families. _ These oleographs can compete in beauty and accuracy with those of Milan. The Holy Father, in acknowledgment- of a picture received, deigned to address a Brief of encouragement to the Society. ”
—The third international congress of Orientalists will be opened Sept. 1, 1876, at St. Petersburg. The chief attention will be directed to Asiatic Russia, cartography, linguistics, history, and literature being kebt especially in view. Special sections, however, will be devoted to archaeology and numismatics, and to religious creeds and cultus and ethics of the east. All mariners who have mapped the shores of Asiatic seas, residents in Asia who have made notes of the countries, and Asiatic travellers, are invited to take part. There will be an exhibition in connection with the congress, for which objects of interest are desired.
—The Cruikshank art collection has been purchased by Mr. W. W. Robertson on the part of the Royal Aquarium and Summer and Winter Garder societies, London. The collection arranged by George Cruikshank will be exhibited in the art galleries of the society at the first annual fine-art exhibition. Over 200 paintings have already been sent in, and the exhibition promises to be one of great interest. The art galleries will be opened on the day of the inauguration ceremonies, and will continue open until the 13th of May. The drawing for the art union prizes takes place on the 5th of the same month.
—A controversy has arisen concerning recent biographies of Poe. In Mr. Middleton’s “ Memorial Edition ” of his poems the biographical sketch by Mr. John H. Ingram was given, prefaced at Mr. Gill’s request with a statement that a considerable portion of the material was gathered from Wm. F. Gill’s lecture on the poet. Mr. Ingram, who is editing the four volume edition of Poe which A. & C. Black, of Edinburgh, are publishing, now asserts, on the contrary, that he used no material furnished in any way by Mr. Gill, but that the latter made free use, without acknowledgment, of material which Mr. Ingram had forwarded at his request.
—“ The American Art Journal, in noticing the water-color exhibition at the Academy of Design, says:
“ That there is a growing taste for water-color pictures among our art-lovers and connoisseurs was readily proved by the large number of works which were immediately purchased at good prices, the aggregate reaching about §10,000 for some forty or fifty pictures, which were from the easels of our best-known water-colorists. The public is only beginning to appreciate the real value of this branch of art, and the efforts of the Society are to be warmly commended for its noble services to art in introducing and familiarizing the public with its merits, and laying the good foundation for its permanent success. In addition to the old contributors we were pleased to see many new names ’ in the list, and among them a great number of admirable pictures, and which give even greater promise for the future. Mr. J. C. Nicoll, Mr. Samuel Colman, Mr. J. D. Smillie, Mr. Louis Tiffany, Mr. McEntree, Mr. Edwin A. Abbey, Mr. R. S. Gifford, Mr. Winslow Homer, Mr. Henry Farrer, Mr. Bellows, and A. T. Bricher, among our American artists, contribute highly-important works. The for-. eign painters are well represented, and their collection is of more than usual interest.”	.
424	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, ^Postpaid.
THE SCHOLASTIC ALMANAC may now be procured at the Students’ Office, and at Jansen, McClurg & Co.’s, 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago.
jVotre Dame. Afarclx 4, 1876.
Entertainments.
We are not opposed to dramatic entertainments at the College. Perhaps if we were in a city we might be in favor of abolishing them; but as we are removed from all city life we feel that dramatic entertainments are productive of much enjoyment and good to all the students. They serve to enliven the place, and they afford those taking part in the plays an opportunity of acquiring ease of manner and grace of carriage when appearing in public. The great argument that has been used against dramatic entertainments here is that they occupy too much of the student’s time in preparing for them. When we remember that the same boy here never appears in a play more than twice or three times in the year, and when we also remember that the rehearsals take place in the evenings, and that there are not such a very great number of them, we do not believe the argument to be of much weight.
We are not, then, opposed to dramatic entertainments ; let that be understood; but we believe it would be a good move for the different societies here to give us some purely literary exhibitions. We have had but one entertainment of this kind this year. It was quite successful, and we hope that the members of the society which gave the entertainment may favor us again; and not only the members of that society, but of others, for exhibitions of this kind show a higher degree of culture than the dramatic.
The time occupied in preparing for these literary entertainments is open to no question; it is clear that it could not be put to better use. While cultivating system of style and composition, the compositions thus prepared serve as a means of giving a polish and finish to the studies of the student; he will, naturally, take more pains than he otherwise would in preparing his composition or essay, and its delivery calls for a corresponding exercise of oratorical culture in order to give it effectively. Thus ease before a public audience, avoidance of embarrassment, fluency of speech, and ease and gracefulness of manner and gesture will be attained by the student before he is called upon to make his appearance on the great stage of the world.
We should like to see these literary entertainments more frequent; and if the members of the societies will not take them in hand, we hope that the faculty will arrange that the members of the Senior, Junior, and Sophomore classes alternately deliver orations publicly at least everv two weeks. These orations might be delivered on Sunday evenings, either in the Senior refectory, or in Science Hall, where the students of all departments would have an opportunity of hearing them.
Self-Knowledge.
' An ancient philosopher has said “Know thyself;” yet a knowledge of one’s own character, abilities, opinions, virtues, and vices is as difficult an acquisition as it is important. It is no agreeable thing to investigate our faults, out errors and our vices. We are partial to ourselves, and are apt to judge favorably even when we are plainly in the wrong. Besides, to discover our real character is not the work of a few days; it is the work of years requiring habitual attention. Hence self-knowledge is acquired with difficulty.
But if there are difficulties to be encountered in acquiring this self-knowledge, they are more than counterbalanced by the advantages which accrue to us from it. When we know the extent of our abilities we shall never rashly undertake enterprises where our exertions may bring us harm instead of good. Investigating our opinions, we discover those which are erroneous, and which lead us by little and lit-tleinto vice. Scrutinizing our virtues and our vices, welearn what principles should be made strong and what habits should be corrected.
As man is a rational and intelligent being he is capable of improvement and is subject to many vices. If he acts without thought, without examining his principles, he is liable to be led by his passions into great crimes. If he aims at acquisitions noble and valuable, he must have some definite plan of action; he must not do anything without deliberation and forethought. He is not as the tree or the flower, which attain perfection by the workings of external causes; he is possessed of powers within himself which must be used, and used with care and judgment, that the perfection of his nature may be attained. That he may be enabled to exert these powers rightly, he must know what his duty is—and, knowing it, must seriously examine into himself, reviewing his principles and conduct, that he may see whether he is performing his duty, or in what respects he has failed to do so. Should he discover that he has wandered from virtue and truth, and has in aught trod the way of error or vice, he will naturally seek to discover the causes which led him to do so, that for the time to come he.may avoid them. This is the method by which every reformation, whether of the individual or the state, has been accomplished, as it is likewise the method by which the arts have been brought to greater perfection. Without self-knowledge, of that knowledge of our character which is acquired from a comparison of our principles with the true standard of morality, we are unable to make plans, form resolutions, or exert ourselves to do away with any vicious habit we may have contracted. Without it we are wholly unable to strengthen ourselves in those principles of virtue in which we are deficient.
We may learn much from the errors of men placed in situations similar to those in which we now stand; so also, knowing the faults we have committed, we may acquire many useful cautions against them, which, if we will but remember, will prevent our being again guilty of the same vices. This is in the nature of Providence, which evidently intended that man should be guided chiefly by experience. It is by observing what we see transpiring about us or from what we suffer in our own person that we are enabled to form maxims for the conduct of life. The more thoroughly then we attend to our principles, and the more maxims we form, the better qualified shall we become tofattain moral perfection.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
As regards our understanding, it is of great importance to note the errors into Which we may have fallen, either by its natural defects or by negligence; for errors like these are common to men of highest genius and most profound erudition as well as to the weak and illiterate. But strong minds may at length acquire an habitual accuracy if they do but observe their faults and trace them to their causes. Men of feeble minds cannot by knowing their faults rise themselves to the rank of genius; but by this knowledge they may improve their understanding and so learn their own powers as seldom to attempt that which is beyond their strength. This will enable them to become useful members of society; and though they may never dazzle by their abilities, they will be spared the ridicule which is the lot of the vain.
It is by no means easy to give rules for the acquisition of self-knowledge, because the generality of men are d.eeived by fallacies peculiar to themselves. When they shall once rid themselves of that partiality which is the fruit of self-love, they may form a fair estimate of their improvement morally, by comparing the general line of their conduct with the standard of their duty. If there come to them a doubt of the extent of their intellectual attainments, by comparing them with those of some one who has been successful in the same pursuits they will most readily attain the truth. If this occupation shall cause them to have feelings of vanity let them compare what they now know with what is yet to be known, and they will have small cause for vainglory.
Personal.
r	____
—F. R. Stansell, of ’67, is now in the lecture field.
—Romeo Dessaint, of ’61, is residing in Davenport, Iowa.
—George Duffie, of ’71, is travelling in South America.
—Jacob Solomons, of ’58, is in business at Edinburg, Ind.
—John H. Flemming, of ’61, is residing in Fort Wayne, Ind.
—Charles Walter, of ’75, is reading law in Fort Wayne, Ind.
,	—H. 0. Orendorf, of ’58, is, we are told, at Zanesville,
Ohio.
—Brother Simon spent a few days in Chicago this last week.
—Thomas Flanagan, of ’55, is practicing law at Shreveport, La.
—Wm. D. Bunbury, of ’64, is residing at Berrien Springs, Mich.
—John P. Broderick, of ’70, is married and settled at Cairo, Ill.
—H. P. Morancy, of ’70, is in a mercantile house in
'	Memphis, Tenn.
i	—Alfred W. Arrington, of ’70, arrived here on Wednes-
’	day evening last.
I	—William McKernan, of ’70, is in the stock business, in
f	Indianapolis, Ind.
—Rev. T. Sidley, of ’63, is pastor of a Catholic Church
:	in Springfield, Ohio.
—Joseph Kennedy, of ’73, is with the firm of M. and J.
'	Kennedy, Laporte Ind.
—Columbus Marantette, of ’63, is doing a prosperous (	business at Mendon, Mich. •
—Thos. H. Grier, of ’75, is in Geneva, Wis. We have not learned what he is doing.
—John Clifford, of ’60, is living in Chicago. We were [	not informed as to his business.
—Rev. Father Richard Meagher has been spending the past week at St. Joseph’s Farm.
—Prof. A. J. Stace, of ’64, received quite a notice in the South Bend Herald's leap-year list;
—Joseph Bonfield, of ’58, is a member of the Board of Public Works, at Hyde Park, Chicago.
—We are pleased to see Prof. T. A. Dailey, of ’64, at Notre Dame occasionally. Call oftener.
—Charles Duffie, of ’70, is in the commission business, with his father, No. 109 Reed St., Milwaukee, Wis.
—John M. Gearin, of’7L, is now City Attorney of Portland, Oregon. He served a term in the Oregon Legislature.
—John J. Fitzgibbon, of ’61, recently delivered a lecture before the Catholic Library Association of Chicago for which he was highly praised.
Local Items.
—Now, then, fast!
—Classes progress as usual.
—The singing at the Novitiate is really grand.
—The old pulpit has been taken to the Novitiate.
—There is great emulation in the Class of Elocution.
—We are very thankful to all who send us “personals.”
—March came in like a lion. Will it go out like a lamb ?
—It began snowing on Tuesday last, and fell quite heavily.
—Eggs on Wednesday last came to the table without the ham.
—Bulletins were made out last Wednesday, and sent off on Thursday.
—The weather this past week was cheering to the hearts of coal-dealers.
—Now, who’s going to ridicule weather-prophets after this last week?
—“I can’t give you an item, but I can give you something to suggest one.”
—The members of the Orchestra are practicing a potpourri from Belisario.
—Who will put the Botanical Garden in order again this spring, and keep it so ?
—One of the first things to be done in the spring is to remove the old steam-house.
—Every thing looks lively over atthe farm house. There is plenty to do and the men do it.
—The “ sand-burr ” nine is a strong team. Juanitas, and all others, look out for your laurels.
—The Philopatrians have held their regular meetings. Their report will appear next week.
—The Church clock seems determined to keep a time of its own, independent of the sun and stars.
—“The Jew of Verona” is being read or is reading (whichever you prefer), in the Junior refectory.
—We expect shortly to print the new constitution to be submitted to the Associated Alumni next June.
—We would like to receive more “personals” than we do from those who know the whereabouts of the “ old boys.”
—A chess club is talked about by lovers of the game here. It would be a good thing to have one: who wifi start it ?
—There are five pipes laid on a shelf and their owners say they are not to be used until Easter Sunday. We shall see.
—The Columbians will give an Entertainment on the 17th of this month. They claim that it will be a grand affair.
—Though there are a few with slight colds, yet the. health of the students, and everybody else here, is very good.
—B. Francis de Paul, Mr. L. Meahan, and B. Benedict,
426
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '
teach large and excellent classes at the Manual . Labor School.
_____The adjourned meeting of the resident Alumni will be held to-morrow afternoon, at 3.30 p. m. All are requested to attend.
—Any one who does not wish to lend his umbrella at this season need not give a flat refusal, but can simply say “ It’s Lent.”
—The Columbians remembered the “Sand-burrs” on Tuesday evening last, for which the young gentlemen are very grateful.	.
—Ashes were, as in all Catholic churches, distributed on Wednesday last in the College Church. Rev. A. Louage was celebrant.	-
—The mails arriving here are very large. The Notre Dame P. 0., by the wav, is .quoted in the official reports as as one of the model offices.
—The “Forty Hours’ Devotion” began last Sunday morning with High Mass by Rev. President Golovin, assisted by deacon and subdeacon.
—The Ave Maria will commence next week a series of articles by Miss Frances Howe concerning Louise Lateau, the extatica, who died recently at Bois de Haine.
—There, another dog! Now we most decidedly protest. The situation left vacant by “Sport”can’t be filled. We don’t believe that there’s another dog in all creation can eat as much as he.
—Those of the old students who remember the old joke of the “ solanum tuberosum,” will be pleased to learn that it will be brought out on the stage by the Philopatrians sometime next May.
—The following, which we clip from an exchange, isn’t bad, is it ? “ Fresh.—“ I wonder why my mustache doesn’t grow under my nose as well as at. the corners of my mouth?” Soph.—“Too much shade.” (Cries of more.)”
—The fine weather decoyed our gardener out to prepare his hotbeds for early vegetables; but the cold weather this last week spoilt all his plans. Why didn’t he give heed to the weather-prophet who foretold this cold spell ?
—The Columbians return their thanks to Mrs. Geo. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Ind., for kind favors received at their last banquet. Also to Mr. E. Kitz, of the same city, for several plays which he has been kind enough to send them.
—We would suggest that the students revive the old, old custom of having the Union banquet on the 21st of June. In olden times the various societies united together and had a banquet on that day in the woods just west of the upper lake.
—The following are the positions of the Centennials when in the field: P. H. Hagan, capt. and c.; J. French, p.; A. McIntosh, s. s.; A. Ryan, 1st b.; F. Rosa, 2d b ; H. D. Faxon, 3d b.: W. G. Morris, 1. f.; A. K. Schmidt, c. f.; W. J. Roelle, r. f.
—We have received a communication signed “Roger de Coverly” concerning our notice of the Band in the last number of the Scholastic. If in the next three weeks we have any hours of leisure we may correct the writer’s bad English and publish it.
—On Saturday last balls were living in every direction on the Campus, and it looked as though the baseball season was really opening. The rain on Sunday, the freezing weather on Monday, and the snow on Tuesday and Wednesday, however, make it probable that the players will have to wait for some time to come.
—It seems that some of our readers take issue with the writer of the article on the Columbians, which appeared in last issue, in one of his statements, and are ready to maintain that the “Malediction” was the best play given since the “Verdict;” others again claim that the Entertainment on the 22d ult. was the best since that time.
—The Columbians had a truly excellent supper in Washington Hall on Shrove-Tuesday evening. The dishes were got up in the very best style, and all who partook of them were more than .pleased. Quite a number of guests were present, among whom were Rev. President Colovin,
Revs. J. A. O’Connell, T. Walsh, C. Kelly, and others. The Columbians enjoyed themselves.	’
—On Feb. 24th, 1876, a meeting of the Thespian Association was held, and a vote of thanks was returned to Profs. Lewis and Edwards, and Bro. Simon, for favors received. Also to Master A. K. Schmidt, and Messrs. Kennedy, Robertson, Dechant, McKinnon McGrath, Dwyer, Connolly, Hanigan, Evers, French, Hally, McGorrisk, Blackburn, McEniry and McGuire.
—The Minims have been the happy recipients of a lot of magnificent photographs—copies from the works of the old masters, from Very Rev. Father General, who is now in Rome, accompanied by a letter from an accomplished artist, Miss E. A. Starr, late of St. Mary’s Academy. It is the Minims’ intention to have them frimed, and they will finally be taken home and preserved as valuable souvenirs.
—The 22d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Society took place Feb. 19th. A. K. Schmidt, H. D. Faxon, E. Arnold, E. N. Tamble, E. Raymond, J. French, F. Rosa, J. Nelson, A. Burger, W. Roelle, O. Ludwig and T. Flanagan delivered declamations. Vacancies in offices were filled as follows: Corresponding Secretary, James French; 3d Censor, Patrick Hagan; 4th Censor, J. P. Kinney ; and Marshal, A. Pilliod.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1876. Chicago: Jansen, McClurg & Co. This neatly printed book of over seventy pages is compiled by J. A. Lyons, and chiefly made up from the columns of The Scholastic, a weekly published by the students of Notre Dame University, Indiana, which exhibits more journalistic industry, taste, and skill than any college publication we are favored with. In addition to the selections, which are varied and clever, there is the usual calendar and information pertaining to the almanac. We trust the success of this venture will warrant its annual continuance.—Manhattan Monthly.
—The Scholastic is sent to England, Ireland, Italy and France; to New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia, Virginia, West Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee, Lousiana, Mississippi, Texas, Indiana, Michigan,' Illinois, Missouri, Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota, California, New Mexico, Nevada, Colorado, Oregon, and Montana; to the Province of Ontario, Province of Quebec and Province of New Brunswick. There are more copies of the Scholastic sent to Chicago, Ill., than to any other city, which fact speaks well for Chicigo. '
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association of Notre Dame enjoyed their annual banquet ou last Saturday. The dining hall was beautifully adorned, the turkeys were excellent, and the Society, together with many invited guests, numbering altogether about eighty, had such veneration for the above mentioned bird that bones were all that remained when the repast was over. Many choice dishes helped the turkey in making the tables bend. A jollier company seldom sat down to a banquet. After doing more than ample justice to the viands, toasts were proposed, and re=ponded to in graceful terms and beautiful ideas by Rev. Fathers Colovin, Kelly, and Walsh, and Profs. Howard, Stace, and others. Cecilians will certainly remember their banquet for manv years.—South Bend Herald.
—Mr. Jacob Wile, writing from Laporte, Ind., under date of Feb. 21st, 1876, says: “ On the 15th inst.’I received the news that our venerable friend, the Very Rev. Father Sorin, would return in May next. I immediately wrote to the manager of the Inman Line of steamships for a renewal of a complimentary pass, tendered to our friend last year, and this morning received the following reply:
“Inman Steamship Company, New York, Feb’y 18,1876. Jacob Wile, Esq,—Dear Sir,—I have your favor of the 15th, inst., and have now the pleasure to hand you a first-class . cabin pass, available by any of our steamers from Liverpool to New York, for Father Sorin.”
“ I may state, in connection with the above, that the company last year authorized me to issue a round-trip pass to Father Sorin, when he intended to go, but was at that time prevented by Father Granger’s sickness. The steamers of this line are the finest and best-equipped floating palace’s now on the ocean, and for speed, comfort and safety cannot be excelled. The City of Berlin, in September last, made the run from Queenstown to Sandy Hook in -7 days, 18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
hbhrs and 4 minutes, and returning from New York to Queenstown in 7 days, 15 hours and 48 minutes, actual time,—the fastest time on record.”
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received a pamphlet copy of Some Few of the Many Reasons which must Attach a Roman Catholic to his Religion. It is very neatly printed and tastefully gotten up by the publishers, Cramer, Aikens & Cramer, of Milwaukee, Wis.
- —-The contents of the March number of the Manhattan Monthly are even better than usual. Mr. Savage is bringing the magazine up to a high standard of excellence. The contents are: I, Shrovetide; II, The Keepsake; III, The Fear of the Pope; IV, The Past and the Future; V, Sigismund ; VI, Famous Memories of the Month; VII, Sancta Maria; VIII, Mrs. Jameson’s Legends of the Madonna; IX, The Echo; X, Lives of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence: XI, Recollections of Tyrone Power; XII, Gentilism; XIII, Shakespearian Repetitions; XIV, Miscellany; XV, Current Publications.
—The contents of the February number of the Catholic Record are extremely interesting and readable. They are : I, Apprenticeship. Its Importance, Individually and in General; its Relations to Public and Private Prosperity By Hon. J oseph R. Chandler; II, The Step that Comes Not. By Mrs. M. M. Warde; III, The Nun of Kenmare. By Prof. Patrick Mulrenan; IV, “An Ower True Tale.” Mrs. M. M. Warde; V, Memory; VI, Mary Tudor and Thomas Cranmer. Second Part—Thomas Cranmer. By Mrs. J. R. Hoskins; VII, Vai-Maud. A Legend of the Limousin. Translated from the French by Mrs. A. LaCoste; VIII, Friendship’s Requiem. By Hon. J. F. Lizt; IX, Life Duties. By J. Thomas Scharf; X, Charles Emmanuel IV, King of Sardinia. By Daniel Paul; XI, Editorial Notes; XII, New Publications.
—The March number of The Catholic World magazine has an unusually good array of articles. The “ Sequel of the Gladstone Controversy ” is a second instalment of the important papers on that subject. A comparison of the education, wealth and morality of Catholic and Protestant countries shows some- strange and unexpected contrast. “ The Friends of Education ” is a strong defence of the Catholic Church against the popular charge that she is the foe of education. “Prussia and the Church” brings the history of the long religious struggle in the Prussian kingdom up to the latest outcome of it. “ Anti Catholic Movements in the United States” is a timely and well-written article, giving the history in brief of the various outbursts of anti-Catholic fanaticism in this country. “ Louise Lateau before the Belgian Royal Academy of Medicine” gives the medical aspect of one of the most wonderful and interesting cases of our time. “ St.'Jean de Luz” and “ A Search for Old Lace in Venice” are two of those bright and picturesque sketches of foreign scenes in which The Catholic World is particularly happy. That most interesting story, “Are You My Wife?” is rapidly approaching the catastrophe. The historical Romance, “ Sir Thomas More,” and a short, sweet “Story with Two Versions” complete the list of fiction, which, with other features, goes to make up an admirably-edited magazine.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Atfield, C. Atchison, J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, W. Byrnes, F. Bearss, F. Brady, J. Campbell, P. Cooney, F. Claffey, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, J. Cooney, H. Cassidy, T. Carroll, P. Corbett, J. D. Coleman. H. Dehner, I. Dryfoos, W. Dechant, J. Dempsey, L. Evers, J. Evans, J. Egan, P. Flanigen, W. Fogarty, J. Gillen, J. Harkin, J. Handley, J. Hermann, P. W. Hennessy, S. Kennedy, F. Keller, J. Kreutzer, W. Kelly, J. Kelly, J.Krost, J..Lambin, E. Monohan, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, H._Maguire, R. Maas, J.'Miller, S. Miller,P. McCawley, L. McCollum, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, W. MeGorrisk, J. Mc-Eniry, P. McCullough, M. McCue, S. McDonell, P. Neill, J. Neidhardt, H. O’Brien, J. C. O’Rourke, A. O’Brien, W. Pollard,
L. Proudhomme, T. Quinn, M. Regan, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, G. Sullivan, J. Smith, F. Schlink, W. Wells, R. White, E. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, T. J. Byrnes, A. J. Bergck, JI P. Byrne, A. Ji Burger, J. F. Carrer, W. J. Connelly, E. C. Davenport, J. T. Foley, J. French, F. Flanagan, P. Frane, C. Gustine, H. Faxon, C. Faxon, W. Hake, F. Hoffman, J. Healey, A. Hamilton, M. E. Halley, J. Kinney, J.Knight, M.Kauffman, M.P. McAuliffe, W. G. Morris, G. Nester, D. P. Nelson, J. E. Nelson, C. Orsinger, J.. O’Meara, F. Pliens, F. Rosa, J. Reynolds, W. Ryan, C. Roos, G. Streit, G. Sugg, C. Schubert, E.Smith,|P. Tamble, W. J. Roelle, W. Irvine, J? English, J. Treaver, E. B. Hall.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
F. !A. Campsu, A. J. Bushey, O. W. Lindberg, P. P. Nelson, Lee J. Frazee, T. F. McGrath, G-. Lowerey, G. Rhodius, H. Hake, J. A. Duffield, M. Gustine, J. O. Stanton, J. Davis, P. Heron, J. Haney, P. Haney, W. McDevitt, W. Smith, W. Coolbaugh, B. Morris, C. Long, E. Oatman, H. McDonald, W. Van Pelt, -C. Bushey, G. Lambin.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1876..
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Senior Year.—F. Devoto, E. S. Monohan, J. J. Gillen, B. L. Euans, H. L. Dehner, E. Graves, J. Caren.
Junior Year.—J. H. Cooney, N. J. Mooney, H. C. Cassidy, J. A. Brown.
Sophomore-Year.—J. F. Ewing, W. P. Breen, W. T. Ball, R. J. Maas, P. J. McHugh, J. Coleman, M. McCue.
Freshman Year.—A. Hertzog, G. McNulty, J. Campbell, A. K. Schmidt, A O’Brian, J. Cavanaugh, J. M. Rourke.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. W. Lowerey, T. F. McGrath, P. Heron, A Bushey, J. G. Duffield, J. O. Stanton, G. Rhodius, P. P. Nelson, R. Pliens, F. A Campau, O. W. Lindberg, M. Gustine, J. Davis.

Parity.
In the sky what type displays Splendors that proclaim its praise ? Ah ! the star I bright Polar star I Leading,[guiding from afar.
In the air what bears its’form, ’Mid the drifting, rushing storm ?
Ah! the snow-flake 1 silent, white, Softly falling pure and light.
What is like it in the gems Culled for monarchs’ diadems ? Ah! the diamond, flashing light! In the cavern’s densest night.
What is like it in the mines, Where the glimmering metal shines? Ah! bright gold! untarnished gold Doth its radiant type unfold.
What is like it ’mid the flowers, Where the wild bee hums for hours ?
Ah! the Lily! clad iu state, She is like this heavenly trait.
What is like it on the sod?
Where the little violets nod ?
Ah! the Dew-Drop,pure and fair, That is like this trait so rare.
What is like it in the seas, ’Mid the roseate coral trees ?
Ah! the Pearl! pellucid, clear Sign of Purity’s career.
St. Mary’s Academy.
H.F;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. -
,	St. Mary’s Academy, Feb. 29,1876.
- Friend Scholastic .—The Catholic pupils are now participating in the great privilege granted by the Right Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne to the Sisters of the Holy Cross of having the devotion of the Forty Hours’ Adoration in the Convent Chapel at St. Mary’s. Although classes are not suspended each one finds a spare hour in which to enjoy such a high privilege. As no other universal events have transpired in the Academy, we close by inserting the programme carried out on Washington’s Birthday.
. Yours Respectfully.
Programme of the 22d of February. Entrance March.........................Miss B. Spencer
“ Paul Revere’s Ride ”—Recitation....Miss Hope Russell
Song—“Good Night, my Child! ”..........Miss T. Gaynor
CONQUEST OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN IN AMERICA.
..	By the Centennial Graduates.
Recitation—“ Star-Spangled Banner ”....Miss B. Wilson
Song—“ Spring Time ”...................Miss M. Riley
Essay—“Envy”...........................Miss	A. Walsh
Song—“ Blue Danube ”.................Miss L. Henrotin
Centennial Infant’s Speech.............Miss	L. Arnold
Song—“Red, White and Blue”.............Miss H. Foote
Chorus....................................Vocal Class
juniors’ plat :
. “WHY DIDN’T YOU TELL ME IN TIME?”
Solo and Chorus...........................Vocal Class
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
‘Misses A Clarke, H. Foote. M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara, A. Walsh, J. Bennet, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, F. Dilger, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Johnson, M. Brady, B. Wade, AI. Walsh, L. Kelly, L. Henrotin, E. Mann, A Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole, C. Morris, M. Cravens.«A Dennehey, E. O’Niel, A Heneberry, H. Julius, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, M. Murray, R. Neteler, B. Spencer, H. Russell, AL Thompson, E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. Gaynor, E. O’Connor, S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, K. Casey, G. Youell, S. Swalley, N. King, E. Cannon, AL Siler, G. Wells, L. Tighe, S. Cash, D. Cavenor, D. Osborne, H. Hand, M. Usselman, AI? Markey, A. Miller, L. Leppig, F. Gurney, L. Brownbridge, C. Morrill, J- Darcy, N. O’Meara, R. Filbeck, L. Weber, A. Ale- • Cormack, M. Hallinan, L. Ritchie, M. Spier, C. Morgan, I. Alaas, M. Hooper.	•
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Alisses A. Cavenor*, N. AIcGrath*. N. Alann*, AL Hoffman*, A. McGrath*, E. Lange* J. Holladay* AL Hogan*, H. Dryfoos* L. Aferritt*, A Kirchner* N. Johnson*. D. Gordon*, A. Alorgan* L. Chilton* I. Afann*, B. Wilson, M. O’Connor, AL Derby, AL Ewing, A. Aforris, L. Kinsella, AL Schultheis, A. Harris, L-Walsh, I. Fisk, A. Cullen, A. Koch, J. Mitchell, L. Faulkner, AL Brooks, A Peak, AI. Davis, M. Redfield.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Alisses E. Mulligan*, J. Smith*, A. Ewing*, AL Hughes*, E. Simpson*, AI. Fehcn*, AI. Lambin*, J. Duffield*, AL AlcCor-maek* AL AIcFadden*, C. Trull* Annie Morris*, A. Duffield*, C. Hughes*, R.,Goldsberry*, L. Schnurrer*, A Schnurrer*.
ACADEAIIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR IMPROVEMENT IN LESSONS.
Graduating Class—Alisses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Reily, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, E. York, L Reynolds, K. McNamara.
1st Sr. Class—Alisses L. Ritchie, A Walsh, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, AI. Faxon, F. Dilger, AL Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Johnson, AL Brady, B. Wade.
2d Sr. Class—Alisses AI. Walsh, L. Kelly, L. Henrotin, E. Alann, A. Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole. C. Alorris, AL Cravens, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Spier, E. O’Niel, R. Casey, A. Henne-herry, H. Julius, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, M. Murray, R. Neteler. B. Spencer, I. Fisk, AI. O’Connor, B. Wilson, A. Harris.
3d Sr. Class—Alisses C. Morgan, H. Russel, M. and E. Thompson, S. Moran, AI. Gaynor, L Alaas, N. Tuttle, K. Casey, A Cullen, E. Lange.	.
1st Prep. Class—Misses G. Youell, L. Gustine, E. Pierce, L. O’Brien, S. Swalley, L. Aloran, N. King, E. Cannon, AL Siler, E. Edes, G. Wells, AI. Hooper, A. Spangler, S. Cash, D. Cavenor, H. Hand, AI. AIcGrath, J. Holliday, A. Cavenor.
2d Prep. Class—Alisses A. Aliller, L. Leppig, F. Gurney, L. Brownbridge, C. Alorrill, J. Darcy, A O’AIeara, R. Filbeck, L. Weber, A. AIcCormack, M. Mann, A Ewing.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN CLASSES. s
. Jr. Prep.—Alisses A. Alorgan, L. Alerritt, A. Kirchner, A. McGrath, E. Alulligan, AL AIcGrath, C. Hughes, N. Johnson, M. Hughes.	■
1st Jr. Class—Alisses J. Smith, M. Fehen, R. Goldsberry, J. Duffield, L. and A. Schnurrer.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Alisses K. Joyce, F. Dilger, AL and E. Thompson, N. McGrath, B. Wilson, J. Kreigh, E. Harris.
. 2d Class—Alisses A. Clarke, H. Russel, AL Reily, P. Gaynor, L. Arnold.
3d Class—Alisses J. Bennett, A. AIcGrath, A. and AI. Walsh, AL O’Connor.	.	’
LATIN.	.
1st Class—Misses M. Cravens, E. York, N. Foote, K. McNamara, A. Byrnes.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Alisses J. Nunning, N. Tuttle, E. Dennehey, A. O’Connor, AL Faxon, R.Neteler, AL Sehultbies.
2d Class—Alisses AL Dunbar, AL Julius, L. Kelley, A. Kirchner. 2d Div.—Alisses H. Julius, L. Leppig, M. Usselman.
3d Class—Misses M. Spier, L. Johnson, L. O’Neil, Henne-berry, E. Lange, AL Lambin.	_
CONSERVATORY OF AIUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Alisses Foote, E. O’Conner, H. Julius. 2d Drv.— Alisses Spencer, Kreigh and Nunning. -
2d_ Class—Misses K. Hutchinson, B. Wilson, A. Dennehey, AL. Cravens, AL Julius. 2d Div.—Alisses G. Wells, E-. Dennehey, A. Harris, A. Byrnes.
3d Class—L. Henrotin, L. O’Niel, I. Maas, A. Koch, M. Spier, C. Alorgan, A. Duncan, A. St. Clair. 2d Div.—Alisses F. Dilger, A. Henneberry, A. T. Clarke, D. Locke, AI. Roberts, M. Redfield, K. Joyce, M. Usselmann. • '
4th Class—Alisses Thompson, M. Gaynor, E. Thompson, A. O’Connor, D. Cavenor, F. Gurney, A. Gordon, J. Bennett, H. Russel, L. Arnold. 2d Div.—AI. Reily, L. Johnson, A. Kirchner, A. AIcGrath, L. Hutchinson, J. Holliday, E. Lange, A. Cullen, N. Tuttle, AI. Schultheis.
5th Class—Misses L. Gustine, 8. Hole, J. Alorris, AL O’Conner, L. Walsh, B. Siler, L. Kinsella, L. Merritt, L. Leppig, N. McGrath. 2d Div.—Misses AI. Walsh, L. Faulkner, E. Pierce, A. Walsh, N. King, H. O’Meara, J. Alitchell, H. Dryfoos, A. Aliller, AL Siler, A. Spangler, G. Youell, S. Edes, P. Gaynor, L. Moran, H. Hand, Aliss Osborne.
6th Class—Misses Hooper. AI. AIcGrath, A. Alorgan, L. Weber, A. Ewing, N. Johnson, T. O’Brien, M. Brady, AI. Alulligan, E. Cavenor, M. Daily, E. Simpson, L. Brownbridge, A. McCormack. 2d Drv.—Alisses L. Kelley, I. Fisk, J. Pierce, 8. Cash, C. Alorrill, E. York, AI. Alarkey, C. Hughes, M. Hughes, AI. Derby, E. Edes, R. Filbeck, S. Swalley, K. Alorris, R. Casey, K. Casey, AI. Hoffman.	.
7th Class—Alisses R. Goldsberry, AI. Ewing, C. Fawcett, A. Cavenor, A. Alurry, L. Tighe, M. Brook, AL Halligan.
Sth Class—Misses J. Smith, AL Davis, A. Peak, E. Alulligan.
9th Class—Alisses J. Duffield, L. Lambin, C. Trull.
HARP.
1st Class—Miss O’Connor.	.
2d Class—Alisses E. Dennehey, D. Cavenor. g ■ GUITAR.
1st Class—Alisses Devoto, B. Wade.
2d Class—Alisses D. Locke, AI. Spier.
Organ—Miss J. Darcy.
Private Harmony—Alisses Foote, Arrington and Devoto.
Harmony Class—Alisses Nunning, K. Hutchinson, AL Craven, G. Wells, E. Dennehey, I. Alaas, A. Dennehey, E. O’Conner, AL Julius, M. Roberts, B. Spencer, H. Julius, B. Wilson, A. Byrnes, G. Kreigh, A. Harris.	-
Theoretical Classes—Distinguished. Alisses Dilger, M. and E. Thompson, A. Duncan, L. Johnson, A. O’Connor, 8. Swalley, N. Tuttle, C. Alorrill, AI. Hooper, AI. Derby, AL Ewing, T. O’Brien, C. and AL Hughes. E. Alulligan, J. Alitchell.
I !
—The following was a part of a young attorney’s peroration on argument of demurrer in a court recently: —“Alay it please your honor, this is a stupendous question. Its decision by you, this day, will live in judicial history long after you and I shall have passed from this scene of earthly glory and sublunary vanity’; when the tower of Pisa shall be forgotten; when Waterloo and Borodino shall grow dim in the distant cycles of receding centuries; when the name of Eugene Marlborough and Napoleon are no longer remembered ; when the pyramids of the Pharaohs shall have crumbled into dust; when the hippopotamus shall cease to inhabit its native Nile; even then your ruling upon this demurrer will survive in the volumes of legal lore, as fresh, green and imperishable as an antique big Thompson’grasshoppe or Colorado potato bug.” .....	.
n
I
THE NOTRE DAME SHOLASTIC.
429
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL,
Opposite the Post Office,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Rates, $3.00 Per Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland KoxrLe to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows: Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 a.m.	4 fO p.m.
Peru accommodation................... 5	00	pm.	9 30	a.m.
NightExpress.....................-...10	00	p.m.	6 15	a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
“STANDARD” ORGAN
IS ACKNOWLEDGED BY THOSE ACQUAINTED WITH ITS CONSPICUOUS MERITS TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL REED ORGAN NOW IN THE MARKET. THE UNAPPROACHABLE ELEGANCE OF ITS DESIGNS FOR CASES AND ITS PERFECTION OF TONE AND GENERAL MECHANISM, COMBINED WITH THE POPULAR PRICES AT WHICH IT IS SOLD, ARE UNANSWERABLE ARGUMENTS IN ITS FAVOR. EVERY ORGAN GUARANTEED. PRICE LISTS AND CATALOGUES FREE. CEN’L WESTERN AGENTS—THE ROOT & SONS
MUSIC CO.
CHICAGO.
The Naturalists’ Agency
Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of specimens of Natural History an opportunity of buying and selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plants, &c., &c Nearly all the collectors in America, and many of those'in Europe, will visit this city during 1876, so that this will be the best opportunity ever offered for disposing of and purchasing specimens. My store-rooms are within ten minutes’ walk of the Centennial grounds, on the line of the Chestnut-street cars. I shall also have a branch within one minute’s walk of the main building. I have already in stock over $30,000 worth of specimens, including the finest specimens ever found of Amazon stone, brookite or arkansite, perofskite, nigrin, green wavellite, peganite, tellurium ores, feldspar, albite, petrified wood, smoky quartz; the birds and animals peculiar to the Rocky Mountains, &c., &c. I have spent nearly §7,000 during the past year in the collection and purchase of specimens. Special attention given to collections for schools and colleges. Correspondence solicited, with those wishing to buy or sell specimens, at an early date, as an illustrated catalogue will be issued before the 1st of May. I refer to
Prof. GEO. J. BRUSH, Dr. JOSEPH LEIDY, -Prof. ASA GRAY, Prof. J. S. NEWBURY.
A. E. FOOTE, D.,
Fdloio of the A. A. A. S, Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy. _
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
'	Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and.Denver Express via Jack- , sonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.3	10 pm 12 00 pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm ' 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas East Ex. via ,
Main Line.......................7	30 am 9 40 pm
Peoria Day Express.........••"....7	aopm 9 30 am
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....? 50 pm - 9 30 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 10 pm 12 00 pm Joliet Accommodation..............9	20 am 4 30 pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
a. IT. SHEERER, ’
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and. Gents’'Furnishing Goods, Etc., IIO Micliitjan Street, SOUTH ESITZD
SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE -
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE!
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Danie and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent reqnest of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW. CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
_A_ttaclic<I to tile National flotel. andAd-jacent to tile Lake Sliore and
NTicliis?an SoTitliern Depot.	.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen No.re Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot^t sha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mm j’s» I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
F. S HICKEY.
.430
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M. Livingston & Co.,
A T?.~pn THE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Bend
Tliey Have Ilie Best Cutter in tlie City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Clotlis, Cassimcres, "Vestings, and. Gents’ IPurnislxing Goods, is the largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
REMEMBEB THE PLACE.
91 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND
McDonald,
THE PHOTOG-RAPHER,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a Very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, e:c., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For farther information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
TDOTTSONS^ MUSIC CO.
OFFER SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO PURCHASERS—AT WHOLESALE AND RETAIL—OFTFOREICN AND DOMESTIC SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS, THEIR OWN IMPORTATION OF VIOLIN AND GUITAR STRINGS, ACCORDEONS, CONCERTINAS, FLUTES, GUITARS, VIOLINS, PICCOLOS CLARIONETS, HARMONICAS, DULCIMERS, ZITHERS, VIOLAS, VIOLONCELLOS, AND BRASS AND GERMAN SILVER BAND INSTRU- ' MENTS;i ALSO PIANOS AND ORGANS, OR ANY ARTICLE IN THE * LINE, OF MUSICAL MERCHANDISE. ") GENERAL NORTHWESTERN ^AGENTS - FOR THE 8TECK1PIANO AND STANDARD ORGAN? QUALITY GUARANTEED. CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS FURNISHED FREE. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.	‘
156 STATED ST.J
^CHICAGO?
Go to HENRY HELLER, THE CHAMPION' Barber and Hair-Dresser, 87 MICHIG-AN ST.
Work done to satisfaction. Give me a call.
TSE BEST
School Music Books.
HIGH SCHOOL CHOIR An admirably arranged w**w**w. book for Academies, Seminaries, and High Schools. Songs in 3, 3 and 4 parts.
$1.00.
ATTATfiT1 ^75 rtS For 3 Female voices. Full of the wXlUAvXi AXw Uw. best of fine music for Seminaries
$1.00.
AMERICAN SCHOOL
MUSIC READERS
in 3 books, 35 cts., 50 cts., and 50 cts. Find graded course for Primary and Grammar Schools. All the preceding works are compilations of those thorough teachers and composers, L. O. Emerson and W. S. Tilden.
0HEEBFUI. VOICES.
National Hymn & Tune Book, (40 cts.) Contains the best collection of Sacred Music extant for opening and closing schools.
We also call attention to those excellent collections of School Songs: “Merry Chimes,” “Golden Wreath,” “Nightingale,” and “ Golden Robin,” each 50 cts.; to “ Deems’ Solfeggios,” “Panseron’s A B C,” Perkins’ Orphean,” • “ Hour of Singing,” all for the higher schools, Mason’s great Music Charts, S3, and Dr. Streeter’s treatise on “ Primary Elements, 60 cts.
Successful Music Books.
GETZE’S SCHOOL FOB PARLOB OBGAN!
It is already in the hands of 30 000 learners and players on Reed Organs, and deserves this and greater success. Contains 176 graded lessons, including nearly 50 agreeable Pieces, a dozen Songs, and 25 short Voluntaries.	§2.50.
Centennial Coll, for Old Folks Concerts. New. .40

BELLAK’S
ANALYTICAL METHOD FOR PIANOFORTE.
As the very first instruction book, (for the first 3 months on the Piano), nothing could be better. Very easy pieces, nicely fingered and graded. Does away, mostly, with the dryness and drudgery of the first quarter. In Paper, 75 c.
Gems of English Song.
A large, elegant collection of Choice Songs, with Piano or Reed. Organ accompaniment. 232 pages, Sheet Musia size. §2.50 in Boards; §3.00 in Cloth.
All books sent by mail, post-free, for retail price.
OLIVER ZDITSOUST & CO.,
BOSTON.
J. E. DITSON & CO., CHAS. H. DITSON & CO.
Successors to Lee &. Walker, 711 Broadway, REff YORK.
BA ON HEALY, Chicago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.431
St Mattes
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED Bl THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem'- nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements. Every portion of the building is heated by steam, nd hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their eons and daughters.	’
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1874-75, or address
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 21,1875, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.	-	- •
3 40 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 10 30; Cleveland3pm; Buffalo 9 15.
IO 12 a m’, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35p m; Cleveland 10 15.	.
11 55 am, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo! 05am.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1 10pm.
7 53 pm, Toledo Express, Mainline. Arrives at Toledo,2 30 Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 pm.
4: 40 p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 40am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 415p m, Chicago 6 30 am
5 SOam, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45; Chicago 820 am.
3 p m. Evening Express. Arrives at Lapcrte3 55; Chicago, 630
5 43 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45. Chicago, 8 20.
S OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago
11 30 a. m.	■
9 IO a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne 8s Chicago.
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE.
PHILADELPHIA BAZAR.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE. NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Cars to	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp Daily.	No. 4. .Night Ex ExSa&Su
NEW YORK.			
Lv. Chicago:		9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	5 20 a.m
“ Rochester		1 18 a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
“ Pittsburgh		2 20 “	12 15 p m.	7 05 “
Lv. Pittsburgh	-.	 Ar. Cresson		3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
“ Harrisburg		12 05 p.m.	11 05 “	4 13 “
“ Baltimore		6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
“ Washington		9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
Philadelphia		4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
“ New York				7 35 “	6 50 “	1115 “
“ New Haven		11 10 “	10 49 “	3 36 p.m.
‘‘ Hartford		12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	5 55 “
“ 'Springfield		1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
.« Providence		4 25 “	3 48 "	7 40 “
u Boston		5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City. Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. R. HYERS, G. P. & I. A.
97 Michigan St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
A new and complete assortment of Hosiery, Gloves, Fancy Goods, White Goods, Embroideries, Laces, Ribbons, Artificials, Barasals, Sun Umbrellas, etc. - Agents for Domestic Patterns. Large stock of Zephyr Germantown Works’ Yarns.
Gents’ Furnishing Goods A Specialty.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21, 1875.
	♦Ma’J.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t At! anti Express.	t Night Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 01 “	6 35 “	743 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		9 03 “	12 15 pan	8 30 “	8 55 “	12 45 “
“ Jackson		2 12 p.m	4 05	7 00 a.m	12 47 a m	4 55 ••
Ar. Detroit		5 45 “	6 30 “	10 15 “	3 50 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 50 a m	4 00 p-m	5 40 p.m	9 50 “
“ Jackson		10 37 “	12 30 p.m	715 “	9 25 “	12 45 a.m
“ Niles		3 40 p,m	4 19 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 15 “	5 45 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 45 “
Ar. Chicago		7 35	8 00 “	10 20	6 30	8 00 “
Wiles and Sontli Bend llivision.
GOING NORTH.
[THE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.	-
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts ot home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, I
CAPTAIN MILLS, f Proprietors.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. “ Notre Dame—S 22
Ar. Niles— 9 00 “
7 15 p m. 7 23 “
8 00 “
§9 06 a.m.
9 07 “
9 40 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 6 30 a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00	a.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4	56 “	8 32	“
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5	05 “	‘	8 40	‘‘
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “ 7 40 “
§5 00 p.m
5 32 “
5 40 “
♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted i
§Sunday only.
G. L Elliott. Agent, South Bend,
Wm. B. Strong, Gen’l Snp’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dam*.
432
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Antral
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
DR. 0. H. MIDDLETON,
DEKTIST,
109 IZETOSZIG-JLIT STBEET,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
D. W. RUSS & CO
KEEP THE
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS
For Meals, Oysters,
ICE GPvEAM, PIES, ETC-
1MCEAJL.S ALL TIOTJES.
ESTABLISHED 1853.
». Jjt. Kal® & Bw., Dealers in BOOTS AJSTD SHOES, The Largest Re ailing House'in the State Cointrof Wflgtoi sa ana Mgaa Sts., south bend.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
. IMIEYIEEL LTVTNGSTO1T,
60 Washington St.,
THB6 Doors West of Blum’s Cigar Store,	SOUTH BEND, IND
■ p*?-Keons on hand a large stock of Hats, Cans, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
Traukjiayr
KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS AND JEWELRI,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENG-RAVESTG- A SPECIALTY
Repairing Done in the Most Skillful Manner.
69 WASHINGTON, St,,
SOUTH ZBHUSTID.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD,
(Of the Class of ’62).
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONER FOR ALL STATES,
206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special attention Given to Depositions.
A. 0. SHIRE,
WHOLESALE jtato in <ipw; 1O1 Main Street, Two Boors South Of Ei. Gillen’S, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA [Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
TTHTTELY SPETH, Corner Washington and Michigan Sts., (Under Coonley’s Drug Store) SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
CHICAGO, TIjLITTOIS.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER, MERCHANT TAILORS Clothiers'and Dealers in
Gens’ Furnishing Goods, Hats, Caps, etc., 109 Michigan St., south: zbzetstzd, usrJDiA_isrjA.
The Bxmd
A. NEcILay, Prop., □STILES, MICIIIGkATT. Free Hack to ani from all Trains for Guests of the House The Students7 Office,
Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc No. 54= Washington St., SOUTH HHISTZD, INP.