Vain Regrets.
i.
All I could I but my steps retrace, Remembering all I’ve learned, ^My past would wear a different face, And present joys be earned ;
Experience would guide me well Each error to evade,
And each occasion to foretell Of which use could be made.
n.
Thus sadly musing sighs Remorse.
We all have felt the pain ;
In Egotism it finds its source, And yields us little gain.
For calm Reflection answers him : Suppose that it were so,
And Providence should grant your whim, How far, then, could you go ?
in.
Experience could teach you, true, Your first fault to escape,
But then would break upon your view Affairs in different shape.
Your subsequent career would so By this be modified,
Experience could not with you go Nor be your constant guide.
IV.
Such varied forms does Circumstance—
No two alike—assume, That vainly strives Experience The darkness to illume.
The glimmering light that she affords Is mine—’twas dearly bought:
Without a brighter light—the Lord’s— My future will be naught.
S. ■ ■ ..........-
The Church and the Gentile World.
The early history of the Church, the tale of that marvellous conquest which exceeded any other the world has seen or shall see, is one of great, of thrilling interest to all who wish and seek for knowledge as shown, in its most fascinating form, the history of man. Twelve humble fishermen start from the city of Jerusalem to revolutionize the earth. They tell a tale of a God, the All-Supreme, who, through love of man, came in humble guise on earth; who dwelt in poverty and obscurity for thirty years, obedient to His mother and reputed father, a poor carpenter. For three years, the story runs, did this God-man travel o’er the hills and vales of Judea, stand on the strand of the wind-tossed sea, and on the summits of the olden hills, preaching, to all who would hear, a New Gospel of good
tidings, an evangelion to the sons of Adam. It was a doctrine of love, of charity in all perfection, and the deeds of mercy and of wondrous power told of the practice of words then spoken. Suddenly, excited by proud and impious persons, the people arose and demanded and enforced the death of the Most Holy One. He suffered, died, and lo, He rose from death, and, appearing to many, ascended into the heavens whence He came. Such is the tale they relate, and furthermore they said He sent them to found His Church. Men poor in all things, mental and material, were they; and they thought the mighty civilizations of centuries would bow before them! The world laughed in scorn, and spoke of them as the Jews did of their Teacher and God: “Is not this Jesus, the carpenter’s Son? whence therefore has He these things ? ” Strong in the Promise they went, and the nations bowed down before them,— Jew and Gentile, Greek and Barbarian, started at the sound of the strange tidings, and bowed before the stranger messengers of the new faith. All nations soon came to the fountain of life for solace, and the yoke of the Nazarene in a few years sweetened the days of men of many climes.
That victory over the minds and hearts of men, effected by the lowly of earth, was grander and more noble than he mighty deeds of warriors and statesmen. It was a complete subjugation and overthrowal of the belief of centuries, nursed often by the poetic and national feelings of the nations; it was a yielding of the harsh and cruel hearts to the meekness of the Faith which tells of a rule of good to enemies, and friendship for ill-wishes. The victory was won over the individual man, completely subduing his whole life to the teachings of the Crucified. The Fishermen of Galilee had in theirown lifetime moulded anew the then civilized world; their mission, by the power of their Lord, had been most abundantly fruitful.
The history of those early days, when the Church spread over the nations of civilization, is the object of a work we have before us, by Rev. F. Thebaud, S.J. The title is “ The Church and the Gentile World at the First Promulgation of the Gospel.” * The Rev. author has herein shown the marvellous conquering of all nations by the teachings of that new Faith from above. The connection of the olden dispensation with the new is shown, and the great prophecies announced of old are told. Then the writer; approaching his special theme, throws a rapid glance over the world at the dawn of that era of good will. The progress of the Faith in the diverse civilized lands is treated
*Thb Church and the Gentile World at the First Pomulgation of the Gospel. By the Rev. Aug. J. Th<S-baud, S. J. 2 Vols. of 500 pp., Svo., each. New York: Peter F. Collier, Publisher, 24 Barclay-Street. 1S7S.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
most fully and carefully. It is a work of learned research, luminous thought, and graphic pen-painting. It is a monument that will last, giving honor to the name of its learned author.	.
The review of the nations previous to and at the time of the advent of Christianity is most striking, and it brings forth a truth but little recognized among men, that polytheism at the beginning of our era had a stronger hold than ever on the nations. “ It would be wrong,” says F. Thebaud, in his preface, “to believe that polytheism, precisely on account of its disintegration, was giving way when Christianity met it face to face. Its hold upon men was as strong as ever. The civilization of Greece and Rome, the rationalism and philosophy of the Hellenes, the patriotism and high degree of intellect of the Romans, instead of weakening idolatry, which seems to us so absurd, had, on the contrary, rendered the delusion more persistent by connecting it in Greece with all that was valuable among them—art, national life, and literature. In Rome it had become the support of their policy, the pretended warranty of the stability of the State, and the main prop of the dream that promised them an eternal sway. In the Orient, in Palestine, Syria, Egypt, Mesopotamia, Anterior or Western Asia, and farther East, the innumerable systems of polytheism that had ruled over these regions during so many ages, were yet as alluring to those nations as ever. Nay, more, they saw at that very time their superstitions adopted by the most refined nations of the West. Rome, Alexandria, Antioch, had openly adopted the gods of Egypt, of Syria, of Babylonia itself. Yet as soon as the Church appeared in the midst of all those deluded people, she found willing ears to listen to her, and soon she counted children among the most credulous of them. And what is positively incredible, humanly speaking, in a few hundred years idolatry had disappeared in the greatest part of Europe and Asia, and in a good portion of Africa. Few men reflect seriously on this most strange and remarkable fact. In Mesopotamia, for. instance, the infamous worship of Mylitta and Belus, which had prevailed from the earliest Chaldean Empire, from the time of Nimrod, in fact, down to the dominion of the Romans, melted away, no one knows how, as soon as Christ was preached in Babylonia, probably in the apostolic age. We perceive the same fact taking place in Syria with regard to the degrading rites of Astarte, Melcarte, all the Sun-gods, and fish-gods, and unnamed gods of every description. The same in Cappadocia and Pontus with respect to Ma and other goddesses, although their temples were still surrounded and filled with thousands each of Hierodouloi ruled by powerful high priests. The same again in Phrygia, where Cybele received the disgraceful homage of her votaries. The same in Egypt and Nubia, where the wonderful change took larger proportions perhaps than anywhere else. The enumeration to be adequate, would have to embrace all the nations of the East and North and South, without forgetting the West, teeming, as it was, with the superstitions of Hellas and of Rome, and of the barbarous Northwest. All this festering mass of corruption and error, to which hundreds of millions of people had been addicted from the earliest ages, went down with a crash, as it were, and vanished mysteriously; so that it is impossible to assign any precise epoch to the disappearance of each of them in any particular place. If Jn a few spots we have some data to judge of it, and it is found that those relics of the former barbarism lingered longer in the
land, it is precisely where we should least expect it that a greater attachment to polytheism is thus remarked. It was, for instance, in Rome and Alexandria that the former gods enjoyed longer the veneration of the people. This was probably managed by the providence of God, to show that reason and logic and the spread of universal intelligence, ,as they say, had very little, if anything, to do with the ruin of idolatry; since it was precisely in countries where there was more thinking and reasoning and knowledge that this strange anomaly took place.”
After a thorough analysis of the state of the nations, of the relations of religion and philosophy, Father Thebaud says: “ We cannot, therefore, be surprised that in the time of the first Cmsars there was rather an expansion than a decline of polytheism. A great number of magnificent temples were built; the religious festivals were celebrated on a scale of splendor never yet witnessed; the number of victims surpassed what had ever taken place before;—those who pretend the contrary refer to the time of Julian the Apostate, three hundred years later, when Christianity had already triumphed over polytheism. Instead of being less devoted to her religion, Rome then enlarged the circle of her superstitions, and admitted in her Pantheon the gods of Egypt, of Syria, of Persia, of Central Asia. Serapis, Isis and Osiris, Astarte, Helios, Mithra, Buddha itself, it seems, although perhaps a little later, had their devotees in the capital of the world. And most remarkable of all, this ardent religious feeling was chiefly conspicuous in the higher classes of society. The lower orders remained what they had always been, unintelligeutly devoted to a sensual worship in which they found the satisfaction of all their passions. The patrician caste, which alone could have been influenced by the doctrine of Epicurism, became, on the contrary, more fascinated by the pomps of religious festivals and mysteries. They began about that time to attach, in their opinion, the permanence of the Roman State to the preservation of polytheism. Rome, they thought, had been raised to the splendor they witnessed by the help of the gods, and Rome would fall if the gods turned their back on her, on account of her desertion. It is known that this became a serious objection against Christianity in the time of St. Augustine, who took the trouble to devote several chapters of the City of God to its refutation. To resume the whole subject in a few words, it is certain that no one acquainted with the state of the world at the time of the preaching of the Apostles can consent to admit that idolatry was less rooted in Asia, Africa, and a great part of Europe, than it had ever been.”
Such was the state of the world when the Era of Truth was to begin. Such was the end of the long age of man. Naught but sensualism and blind idolatry in every form of degradation. The sublime truths of a Plato and a Socrates, the stern virtues of a Cato, might be admired and looked up to, but they were never followed. The triumph of the Faith came over such a world, and the revolution was complete. The history of mankind is the history of man. In the age of youth and fire, running blindly into pleasure, rioting in the glory of strength, and but at brief moments glancing at the future, thinking of higher aims, hoping and looking for a guide. Such was the world before Christianity came. It was in the ages of the Creation and Deluge led by the hand of its Parent, as it were. Then came the wild fervor of youth, and the nations drank deep of life’s new strength. Bold in their power, confident in their strength, they marched on, and but seldom distrusted their
I— </ I I I U ' <
v // 2 c- . T
93985 * ?HE N0TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
worth. But trials and troubles did they encounter, and the cry of Plato that a God would come and teach them, was the outburst of the higher feelings of the race, which fell to what it was at the beginning of Christianity, a blind votary of idolatry and fatalism. The light of reason and of truth, given of God, fell on the wrong path of the na*ion=, and they stood filled with the grace of Heaven. The era of sober manhood commenced, and strengthened did mankind renew the struggle and toil of life. Since then many a lapse has occurred. As men can and do repeatedly fall, so do the nati ms, and as men always return to the truth, so shall the peoples. The last great fall was that of the 16th century, when for over a century the wars of fanaticism swept over Europe. To-day the nations are returning, and the peoples come back to their allegiance. Slowly and reluctantly, but yet surely and with steadiness, as man when fallen into fault. We do not hold with those who cry out against the present day and age. It is a better one than that of the century of religious warfare, and it is but the stepping-stone to the reconciliation. Many faults has our century, but many and most signal virtues. Men never can be perfect: no more can the nations. Let us but consider that fact. Let us but reflect that we are now reviving from the great fall of the so-called Reformation, and that the return of the sinner is one that can only come through many storms and trials. The danger is but the recoil from the excess of the Reformation, and shall end in the return of the nations. Maybe many such falls from the Way may come, but they shall end, as our author wishes and knows this passing one shall, by returning to that unity when “ the Church of God shall be recognized by all Christians, and there shall be at last one fold and one Pastor, Unum Ovile et Unum Pastor.
Allessandro Volta.
On the 30 th of April the city and University of Pavia inaugurated, in the midst of general rejoicing, the statue of Alexander Volta. Other universities and foreign scientific bodies were amply represented there, and rendered more brilliant the homage paid to the man whose name is associated with those of Franklin and Galvani as a pioneer in the service of electricity. He was one in whom the claims of physical laws, discoveries and phenomena were subordinated to the higher claims of moral and religious truth; and there is happily no reason to think that the real character of his mind in this respect was misrepresented in the discourses that were pronounced on the occasion. Like the great astronomer of Italy, lately deceased, Volta recognized the alliance between science and revelation, as proceeding from the same author, and as intended mutually to supplement and sustain each other. Born in 1745, his lot was cast in a period remarkable not only for the prevalence of incredulity among highly educated men, but for absence of activity of religious thought and depth of religious feeling even among those who were not altogether insensible to the claims of spirit over matter, and of eternity over time. It has been asserted that his devotion to the Catholic religion and his strict observance of the practical duties which it prescribes died down in him to the level of indifference, but to disprove this calumnious statement it will be enough to cite the words which he wrote and printed at Como in 1815:
“ I have always held, and still hold, as unique, true and infallible, this holy Catholic religion, ever thanking the
good God for having infused into me such supernatural faith. I have not, however, neglected means purely human for confirming myself in it yet more, and for dispelling whatever dqubts might arise to tempt me, studying it attentively in its foundations, retracing in the perusal of many books the reasons pro and con., whence arise the most powerful arguments, which render it in the highest degree credible even to natural reason, and such that every well-constituted mind can do no other than embrace and love it. May such a protest, made openly and before all— for I am not ashamed of the Gospel—produce good fruit!”
Such was the testimony which Volta delivered in his seventieth year to the perfection and purity of the Catholic faith, and we hope that the orators of Pavia who so recently joined in honoring his memory, did not merely abstain from misrepresenting his religious character, but gave due prominence to his earnest and well-reasoned attachment to truths of the spiritual order. Pavia has undoubtedly good cause for being proud of his name, since he occupied the chair of Professor of Natural Philosophy in her University during thirty years. Napoleon I made him a Count and Senator of the Kingdom of Italy, and inscribed his name at the head of the list of members of the Italian Institute. When First Consul he invited him to France, where he received the gold medal of the Institut de France. But these were trifling distinctions compared with the discoveries which Volta made, and which were the cause of his honors. It was a happy controversy that he had with Galvani about the convulsions in the leg of a dead frog. Though it turned but that each of the disputants was right—Volta in saying that the convulsion of the crural nerve, whenever it touched the rim of the balcony on which the frog hung by a copper hook, was produced by the contact of the two metals in connection with a fluid, and Galvani in saying that an electricity exists in animals which acts without any other help—yet their difference of opinion, after it was composed, was fruitful in scientific results. Volta was led on to the discovery, then of considerable importance, that two different metals when joined together in contact with moisture, and separated from other substances, produce a current of electricity. To this principle we owe the crown of cups and the less simple and more effectual Voltaic, pile, to which he gave his name, was brought to its perfection by Volta when this century commenced, and every succeeding year had added some stride in the march of electricity. Franklin had proved the real action of electricity. He had shown its identity with lightning. He had brought it down irom the sky. Galvani had led the way to Volta’s discoveries by pointing out the existence of electricity in animals, and Volta actually produced it iu enormous quantities by two metals and acidulated water. He kept up a constant flow, and this flow would travel any distance provided the current were not broken.
This was the first step towards the electric telegraph. The department, indeed, connected with the Voltaic battery may be considered as a separate study, if not science, denominated Current Electricity. Whatever metals be employed, whatever acids, the principle on which the battery acts is the same, and it is that which Volta laid down. In Grove’s battery platinum is used with the zinc. In Bunsen’s a very hard, form of carbon, deposited in the retorts at gas-works. Diluted sulphuric acid is" generally used to act on the zinc, but not always. As yet we have but a faint conception of the vastness of the results for
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
good and for ill on human society which is likely to attend the various developments and applications of current electricity, or, in other words, of the electric action that passes along a conductor from the source where it originated to the reservoir where it is absorbed. However vast these results may be, let it be remembered that they originated in one who feared God and obeyed the precepts of the Catholic Church. His name in this respect must be associated with that of Sylvester II, Roger Bacon, Columbus, Albertus Magnus, Cardinal Cusa, Copernicus, Vesalius, Eustachius, Galileo, Gassendi, Torricelli, who closed Galileo’s eyes, Malpigi, the chief physician of Pope Innocent XII, Buffon, Lavoisier, Laplace, Arago, Ampere and Secchi, of whom we deplore a recent loss. Several of these were ecclesiastics, as well as naturalists and physicists, of high degree. Gassendi was provost of the Cathedral Digne, and wrote the life of Copernicus, the Polish Canon, whose work, “De Revolutionibus Orbim Coelestium,” had been written seventy years before it was, in 1510, published by special desire of Cardinal Schomberg, and dedicated to his Holiness Pope Paul III. That book did for the science of astronomy what Volta and his battery achieved for the science of electricity.—London Tablet. -
Heat and Ventilation.
A LECTURE DELIVERED BEFORE THE NOTRE DAME SCIENTIFIC SOCIETY BY T. A. DAILEY. •
In the course of several j ears of faithful teaching and careful observation in the public schools of the West, I have come into possession of many curious facts relating to the influence of temperature and ventilation on the physical and mental organization; some, and indeed a large number of special cases, were highly unsatisfactory and incapable of reduction to a system by any hypothesis with which I was familiar, yet the greater part were directly traceable to their origin, and I became convinced that the school-room is the great cradle and nurse of that dread destroyer of human vitality—pulmonary consumption. That this statement is perfectly true, I firmly believe, and I shall endeavor to point out the reasons, which came to me from time to time laden with the force of conviction. Starting out with no clearly defined ideas on the subject (if indeed I thought of it at all), and with but a crude and scanty elementary knowledge of the laws of health, by degrees I began to realize the vast responsibility of the teacher, and that to gratify his conscience, if he be an honest man, he must acquire a concise and thorough knowledge of the laws of organic structure, and the physical contingencies upon which health and sickness depend. This I sought to do by attentive reading and practical observation, and although the more I studied and observed the less satisfactory became the result, still I found the subject one of most intense 40161681 and well worthy the labor I bestowed upon it. One fact I early found laid down in the books, that children require warmer rooms than adults, and this statement I soon found to be perfectly consistent with my own observations. I regulated the heat of my room with an accurate thermometer, and by removing it to extreme positions in the room I was enabled to ascertain the average temperature at any given time. Thermometers in this country are usually graded according to Farenheit’s scale, and I learned that a temperature
of 80° was not considered too warm by the smaller pupils, while to those more advanced in years, and taken in connection with their warm winter clothing, it was considered extremely uncomfortable. Our country and village schoolrooms are invariably heated by large cast-iron stoves, placed in different situations, but usually near the middle of the room, and in accordance with the principles of radiant heat I seated the students with the youngest nearest the stoves. This I believed to be the better plan, and I had the satisfaction of observing it had a salutary effect.
Again, students and all persons who subject themselves to severe mental discipline require more artificial heat than any other class of men. We know that carbon and hydrogen enter largely into the composition of organic matter, and that in the human system whatever generates a quickened flow of blood, at the same time increases the deposition of new material, and consequently the displacement of superfluous and indigestible elements. This mutation among the organic elements is necessarily attended with an increase of temperature, for wherever oxygen is introduced into the system its union with the carbon and hydrogen already present produces what is known as animal heat. Now, when the mind is absorbed in thought, with every faculty of the brain bent upon some intricate speculation, the blood-vessels pour their vital currents towards that part of the body needing assistance, the brain, and thus the forehead becomes violently heated at the expense of the other portions of the body; the motion of the lungs becomes less active; heat is generated in greatly reduced quantities, and the extremities become chilled and delicately sensitive to the influence of the surrounding atmosphere. If at the same time any of the vital organs should happen to be diseased, the effect is heightened, and frequently death terminates the brief career of the over-ambitious student. The careless stupidity or gross ignorance of teachers and those who have in charge the heating of rooms which students occupy is the great cause which induces disease—chiefly of the lungs and mucus membrane—and which blights with sickness and death the brilliant prospects of hundreds of the brightest young intellects in our land.
The average temperature of the human body is about 98°, and is maintained in all seasons and climates with a very slight variation while in a healthy condition; and it can maintain this heat without the aid of any artificial assistance, possessing the power of generating more heat when necessary, and through the action of the lymphatics, the skin and lungs removing it when superabundant. There is one other and intensely dangerous method of removing heat from the body, that is by radiation. Whenever the surrounding temperature is very much lower than that of the body the cold air as it comes in contact with the mucus membrane, in order to equalize the temperature, abstracts the active heat from the body and thus reduces its temperature. Now if this action is carried on from all parts of the body at the same time and with equal force no serious inconvenience is liable to ensue, save, perchance, an increase in the action of the organs of nutrition; but should some cold-blooded assassin, filling the position of teacher, fancy the room too warm, and open the door or window at such an angle that the current in rushing in would infringe on only a portion of the body—usually the-head or chest—the equilibrium is destroyed, and inflammation and not unfrequently death ensues. It is likewise dangerous to sit near a window
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5
f
casement or a wall that is broken, for small currents of cold air are constantly rushing through the apertures. A student of mine once slily carved a hole in the wainscotting behind his head, that he might have an opening for the ejectment of tobacco saliva; one windy day he was seized with a violent ear-ache, inflammation followed, and he became perfectly deaf. A student should never be permitted to wear extra clothing, such as shawls, greatcoats, overshoes, and scarfs while in the school-room as they become worthless to protect the wearer from the greater severity of the outside temperature. I have no doubt man was so constituted that he could originally have maintained a satisfactory temperature without any adventitious aids, but modern civilization and the increasing degeneracy of physical force have rendered the production of artificial heat a science in itself.
Wood has always been held in high favor and is preferable to coal, as it absorbs less oxygen and gives off less carbonic acid gas. Numberless experiments have been made with a view to determine the kind of wood which contains the most heat in a given area; many of the tests were conducted with the utmost unfairness, and consequently the tables show an utter lack of uniformity. I assisted in arranging a table of this kind some years ago, and the committee used every means in their power to arrive at an impartial and accurate result. The woods used in the test were such as are indigenous to our forests; were all cut at the same time ; seasoned in the shade, and subjected to the same barometric pressure. The experiments extended to wood cut at six different times, each with an interval of two months, and for each separate experiment the wood was taken from the same portion of the tree, and as nearly as possible at the same stage of development. Green wood was used first, and then, in regular order, woods that were partly, and at last wholly seasoned. The experiments were necessarily very numerous, and extended through two entire years. The report of the committee was voluminous in detail and entirely satisfactory. The preference was given without reserve to the wood of the white or sugar maple, cut in the month of January and tested in July of the same year, and to that portion of the tree growing nearest to, yet without touching, the surface of the earth. This was found to contain less volatile gas and a larger percentage of carbon than any other substance used.
Experiments have also been made for the purpose of comparing the relative advantages of the various kinds of apparatus used for heating purposes. The majority of these tests are very unsatisfactory, and none of them conclusive. The largest preference is accorded to open wood-ranges with vertical flues, and second to them is the hot-air-furnace. So far as I have been able to find, but an ungracious reception has been accorded to steam, and air-tight stoves are everywhere denounced. The experiments have been conducted mainly in the interest of manufacturers and vendors of heating apparatus, and are consequently entitled to but very little weight. The action of the air-furnace is based upon the scientific principle of an equal diffusion of heat, and when properly constructed is most satisfactory in its operation. The common wood stoves that are so nearly universal in their use require an undue amount of oxygen, not only for the purpose of combustion of the fuel consumed, but also for the radiating surface of the heated iron. When cast-iron is very greatly heated it absorbs vast quantities of the oxygen of the surrounding air, thus leaving an undue proportion of nitrogen, and if the vacancy be not
supplied, the air is rendered unwholesome and prejudicial to the health. People who accustom themselves to a high temperature, who sit all day long in close proximity to a roaring wood or coal fire, generate less animal heat, the absorption from the skin and lungs diminishes, and the general tone of the system is lowered. The reason why they cannot withstand the cold is not so much because they are not inured to it as because of the general weakness and debility of the system. The school-boy will sit by a great stove with a temperature around him not far below 98° and feel very happy all day long, and when school is dismised he will rush out into the frosty air where the thermometer marks a change of more than a hundred degrees, and yet he will feel no serious inconvenience. He cannot be said to be inured to cold, for he seems absolutely impervious to heat. He has not nearly the amount of animal heat with which the adult is favored, yet his quick respiration and his rapid assimilation of food seem to more than compensate for the deficit. A high temperature in the school-room is rarely advisable, as we shall see presently when we come to speak of ventilation, and on the contrary a low temperature should never be resorted to on any pretext whatever. The old Latin maxim, “In medio tutissimus ibis''1 is equally true in this as in almost every other case. The best apparatus that can be obtained should always be used—but with this the teacher has little to do—and it is his duty to see that the temperature of the room is kept as nearly uniform as possible. He should never forget that students, and particularly children, require more heat than adults and those who are engaged in some active manual employment. He should be carefully and accurately instructed in the application of the laws of hygiene, and use that knowledge conscientiously, knowing that he is directly responsible to God for the faithful charge of those young lives entrusted to his care. He may have little more to do than to teach, and if so, his responsibility is materially lessened, but in the vast majority of our schools he is the executive officer of the whole building, and the one on whom its management entirely depends. Our school-rooms are seldom, if ever, properly ventilated. The men who build them do not appreciate the importance of pure air in the progress of physical development; or they are actuated by the base, selfish greed for gain that renders them insensible to the higher claims of humanity. They spend thousands of dollars in painting and decoration that please the vulgar eye, and they are praised for their taste and artistic genius, —not one thought is bestowed on the vital sanitaiy arrangements, whereby the temperature is rendered equable and the vitiated, poisonous air is removed from the building.
There are men who are firmly convinced that the ultimate salvation of the human species depends on newer and more approved systems of ventilation. Dr. Holland characterizes them as men of one idea, and he ingeniously remarks that they might as well be possessed of this as any other idea, for they are incapable of but one, and it usually becomes tiresome in their hands. While I disclaim any such abject devotion to the theory of ventilation, I am thoroughly earnest in the conviction that a great proportion of the pains and infirmities of the present generation, —nearly every case of consumption, bronchial affections, contractions of the heart, and ulcerous disease of the skin, can be traced directly to their origin—improper and defective ventilation. Under our present system of school education a large portion of our physical development is car
6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ried on in the school-room. The best part of the day— from nine till five—is passed there, and hence the ^importance of adapting that room to the positive requirements of the human system. It is a well recognized principle in physiology that unless the impure venous blood, through the action of the lungs, be regularly converted into pure arterial blood, the whole system becomes enfeebled and incapacitated to perform its allotted functions: the action of the lungs becomes weak; the bones soft and brittle; the muscles inefficient; the skin rough and covered with humors; and the brain disorganized and subject to nervous headache; the intellect becomes impaired, and confusion of ideas aud loss of memory are experienced, and usually death ensues to terminate the sufferings of the unhappy patient. The importance of pure air cannot be overestimated. One of the chief objects of respiration is to free the system of the carbon and hydrogen found in the venous blood. The lymphatics and capillaries of the systemic circulation convey these useless elements to the large veins, and thence they are conducted to the lungs, the carbon in the form of acid. This acid has a stronger affinity for atmospheric air than for the other elements of the blood, and hence readily unites with it, while, on the other hand, the oxygen of the air readily disengages itself from the nitrogen, for which it has no chemical affinity, and mixes freely with the blood in the capillary vessels of the lungs. The oxygen is conveyed through the arteries to every portion of the body. The chemical union of oxygen with the carbon and hydrogen in the blood—the so-called combustion—is necessarily attended with the disengagementjof heat and the formation of carbonic acid and water. Now on account of the great affinity of carbonic acid and water for air, they readily permeate the thin walls of the blood-vessels and air-cells and unite with the nitrogen there contained, whence they are thrown off from the lungs by the process of expiration. Pure atmospheric air contains about twenty-one per cent, of oxygen to seventy-nine of nitrogen (these two elements, of course, containing very small quantities of carbonic acid and aqueous vapor). From what we have said it follows naturally that the expired air cannot contain as much oxygen as when taken into the lungs, and also that the carbonic acid in the former must be sensibly increased. Such is the case. Of the oxygen inspired,.only about eighteen parts under ordinary circumstances are thrown off, while the carbonic acid is increased nearly five per cent. The nitrogen remains unchanged. Hence the oxygen is the necessary constituent, the nitrogen merely the medium for its conduction. Now it might be questioned, could the same air be breathed again and again and still sustain life*while a particle of . oxygen remained? The theory is that it could not; the atmospheric air will absorb eleven (11) per cent, of carbonic acid, and no more—this is the point of saturation— and beyond it, life cannot exist. The majority of physiologists assert that more than four per cent, of carbonic acid is prejudicial to the health, and as air that has once been breathed contains a little more than double that amount of carbonic acid, it follows that it is unfit for respiration. Of course all men do not absorb oxygen in equal proportion, and without attempting a tedious and useless classification, I will repeat the general principle that strong healthy men and children absorb more oxygen than those who are infirm or in the decline of life. It might also be remarked that advanced students and generally those who lead sedentary lives breathe less rapidly and consequently consume
less oxygen than those who are engaged in more active physical employments.
We have stated that school-rooms are seldom properly ventilated. This' defect arises from two causes, the absence of the necessary apparatus for ventilation, and the ' deplorable ignorance of the teachers respecting the common laws of health. I remember visiting a school, several years ago, taught by a young man who was a graduate of the Ypsilanti Normal School. He had been well instructed in Physiology, and was regarded as a thorough and successful teacher. It was in the afternoon of a warm, close day in January, and the school had been in session about an hour when I entered. The school was painfully quiet; I could hear my watch tick; the pupils were arranged around on the forms, many of the smaller ones asleep, and those who attempted to study or recite acquitted the task in a listless, lifeless manner that was highly distressing. I was surprised and alarmed; never had I seen such absolute and unreasoning tyranny. The temperature of the room was, I judged, about 95°, F. And there was no means whatever for ventilation, save the crevices about the window frames, and even they, I observed, were protected by a rubber moulding. The atmosphere was vitiated to a degree that I would have deemed impossible. It was loathsome and oppressive. The room was perhaps 40x30 feet and ten feet, high, containing, we will say, 12,000 cubic feet of air. Now, allowing ten cubic feet of air to each pupil, of whom, there were 70 in the room, the entire atmosphere would be saturated with carbonic acid in about thirty minutes. And yet those pupils were required to remain perfectly quiet for two ■ long hours. I found it a severe task, and one to which I would not again willingly subject myself. During the three o’clock recess, of fifteen minutes, I observed that no attempt was made to change the air in the room, and I. took occasion to question the pupils and the teacher regarding their general health. I was not surprised to learn from the teacher that his scholars were dull, stupid fellows—“overpowered with laziness,” he said—and from the students, that they suffered continually from nervous headaches and severe colds; indeed, I found myself wondering that they were not all sick. There was no thermometer in the room—the teacher remarked that he could regulate the temperature himself, with perfect precision—a feat which I know to be impossible. Now, when we reflect that those pupils were compelled to submit day after day to such inhuman treatment, and that there are thousands of schools presided over by equally reckless and ignorant teachers, we cannot resist the conviction that to the school-room, in a special manner, are we indebted for the frightful increase of consumption. Unwholesome air kills more men than either the sword or intemperance. There are parents who, recognizing the deleterious effect of the school-room, keep their children at home and endeavor to educate them there. This is the most selfish method they could procure. The true solution of the difficulty is, to provide better apparatus for warming and ventilating the rooms, and to employ teachers who have experience and practical judgement. The temperature of the room should depend upon the condition of the atmosphere, and the ventilation should be such that as much pure air is admitted every minute as is consumed. When the atmosphere is damp and near the point of saturation, less heat is required than when it is cold and dry, but with ventilation the reverse obtains. The influ
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	7
ence of a close, sultry day in mid-winter, when the air is densely charged with atmospheric electricity, is well worthy of observation. Severe mental application is very difficult, and, if insisted upon, cannot fail to have an injurious effect. Strong draughts, or currents of cold air, as we have seen, should be carefully avoided; and hence the common practice of opening the windows on opposite sides of the school room is a direct violation of the rule. In brick buildings, chimneys should be used for ventilation; and for this purpose, should be constructed with two flues—separated from each other—the outer one for the smoke, and the interior, or one opening into the room, for the escape of vitiated air. The smoke and heat from the furnace will rarify the air in the ventilating flue, causing it to ascend, and the foul air from the room will rush in to take its place and thus establish a current. .For this purpose there should be a large opening near the floor and also one at, or near, the ceiling. Carbonic acid gas, on account of its greater weight, settles down to the floor, and if there is not an aperture arranged for its escape it will remain in the room. This fact is seldom recognized and rarely provided for. There should also be ventilation in the ceiling, as near as possible to the centre of the room; and this should be so constructed as to be easily opened and closed, as circumstances may require. Even with the best devised apparatus for ventilation, the air is not sufficiently purified to permit the room to be closed all day, but the air should be entirely changed at least three times during school hours, and this should be effected at the three recesses—while the pupils are all out of the room—which occurs usually at 11 a. m., from 12 to 1, and 3 p. m. The teacher should see that the windows are opened and free currents of air permitted to pass through the room. This the teacher is often loth to do, lest, on account of the insufficient beating apparatus, he may not be able to restore the lowered temperature before the bell rings. But no such consideration should tempt him to neglect this important sanitary precaution. He should not allow himself to judge of the condition of the atmosphere, for we know that when a person has remained a long time in a room he becomes insensible to the vitiation of the air; as we have already seen, the sensibility of the system becomes impaired, and the organs gradually adapt themselves to the diminished supply of oxygen. This can be easily illustrated by a person going out for a brisk morning walk, and then suddenly returning to a room in which a number of people have slept the precede ing night.
Thus we have shown that the perfect development of this wonderful organic structure we call the body depends, in a great measure, on heat and ventilation. The purity of the blood can be maintained only at the expense of tbe oxygen of the air, and this it is the province of ventilation to supply; and it is from the blood that every portion of this complex system—the flesh, the tendons, the brain, the bones and cartilages—all the various organs (which reduce to similar ultimate elements) is manufactured. ...................................     v
—“You would be very pretty indeed,” said a gentleman, patronizingly, to a young lady, “if your eyes were only a little larger.” “ My eyes are very small, sir, but such people as you don’t fill them.”
—“ Do you think,” asked Mrs. Pepper, rather sharply, “ that a little temper is a bad thing in a woman ? ” “ Certainly not, ma’am,” replied the gallant philosopher; “it is a good thing, and she ought never to lose it.”
Archbishop MacHale.
Most Rev. John MacHale, D.D., of the Irish Church, and the pride of Irishmen throughout the world, was bom in 1791 at Tubbernavine, a small village in the picturesque locality at the foot of Mt. Nephin and near the banks-of Lough Conn, in the County Mayo, Ireland. Having learned the rudiments of Greek and Latin at a school in the neighboring town of Castlebar, he entered as a student at the ecclesiastical college of Maynooth, where he became sucessively Lecturer and Professor of Dogmatic Theology. Having held his professorial chair for about eleven years, he was named Coadjutor Bishop of his native diocese (Kilalla), cum jure successionis, and consecrated with the title of Bishop of Marioni in partibus infidelium.
Whilst resident at Maynooth he published under the signature of “ Hierophilus ” a series of controversial letters, embracing the questions of Bible Societies, the Protestant Church in Ireland, and Catholic Emancipation. There, too, he composed and published, in 1827, a work on the Evidence and Doctrines of the Catholic Church, which has been translated into the French and German languages. Dr. MacHale next published under his signature as Bishop of Marioni a second series of letters on the same class of subjects as those of which he had treated in his previous letters. These attracted great attention both among the friends and the foes of Catholic Emancipation. On the death of Dr. Kelly, Dr. MacHale was promoted to the See of Tuam; and during Lord Melbourne’s ministry he published very many letters on the questions of the Church Establishment and Education, under the signature of “John, Archbishop of Tuam.” In 1847, he collected and published in a single volume the entire series of his letters up to that date; and in 1861 he published a further series of the same kind. Dr. MacHale has taken an active and conspicuous and illustrious part, not only in the religious questions, but also in the politics of the day, and is known not only in Ireland and England, but also in Italy. His sermons delivered at Rome in 1832 have been translated into Italian by the Abbate De Lucca, once Apostolic Nuncio at Vienna. • The speeches which he delivered on the hustings and elsewhere in favor of a repeal of the Union between England and Ireland, during the agitation, have been published in a collected form.
Besides compositions in the English language, Irish literature is considerably indebted to the zeal and labors of Dr. MacHale, who has translated into Irish and published the majority of Moore’s Irish Melodies, in the same precise metre as the original. A large octavo volume, comprising six books of the “ Iliad,” with a corresponding Irish translation in heroic metre, by the Archbishop, was published in 1861. Finally the “ Pentateuch” in English, and Irish translation, accompanied with notes and comments, forming the first volume of the Bible, were given to the public by the Archbishop. He also translated into Irish and published the works of Homer. Although now in his eighty-eighth year Archbishop MacHale enjoys excellent health and goes through the ordinary episcopal labors of his diocese. The affection of the Irish people for Archbishop MacHale is unbounded, and well it may be.
—“ Silence—keep silence in court! ” said an angry judge. “ Here we have judged a dozen cases this morning, and I have not heard one of them.” Justice was blind as well as deaf. '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—A paste formed by mixing powdered glass with a concentrated solution of silicate of soda makes an excellent acid proof cement.
—Beaver Falls, Pa., contains several gas wells at an average depth of eleven hundred feet, yielding about 100,000 cubic feet of gas every twenty-four hours. This gas has been introduced into a large saw-tempering furnace at that place in the works of Emerson, Smith & Co. The furnace is 8 feet wide by 14 feet long. It is said to be a perfect success, giving a uniform heat, and there being no sulphur or impurity in the gas the steel is not deteriorated in the operation of heating.
—The year 1878 has already seen more than its share of disastrous earthquakes and similar phenomena. There are slight tremblements de terre in one part or another of the earth’s surface about once in three days, but it is only occasionally that serious outbursts occur which overwhelm cities, swallow up whole islands, or raise up the bed of the sea from a fathomless depth to a dangerous shoal. During the first half of the present year, however, the intensity of the shocks of earthquake and of volcanic eruptions has undoubtedly been on the increase, and if this continues the thousandth anniversary of the destruction of Herculaneum and Pompeii, which will occur next year, wi’l be celebrated in an appropriate, if an undesirable, manner, by the forces of nature itself. This activity has developed itself since June, 1877.—Scientific American.
—The well known fragrant garden favorite, the sweet-scented or lemon verbena {Lippia citriodora), seems to have other qualities to recommend it than those of the fragrance for which it is usually cultivated. The author of a recent work, entitled “ Among the Spanish People,” describes it as being systematically gathered in Spain, where it is regarded as a fine stomachic and cordial. It is used either in the form of a cold decoction, sweetened, or five or six leaves are put into a teacup, and hot tea poured upon them. The author says that the flavor of the tea thus prepared “ is simply delicious, and no one who has drunk his Pekoe with it will ever again drink it without a sprig of lemon verbena.” And he further states that if this be used one need “never suffer from flatulence, never be made nervous or old-maidish, never have cholera, diarrhea, or loss of appetite.”
—Prof. Riley recently appointed Government Entomologist and attached to the Agricultural Department, reports that specimens of insects injurious to agriculture are con-stanily being sent to the department from all parts of the country, with requests for information. In every instance, if a proper examination could be made, an effectual remedy could be found, and not less than $150,000,000 saved to the country annually. Recently a worm entirely new to science was sent to the department by an Iowa farmer, whose orchard of several thousand apple trees had been rendered unproductive for several years by the new depredator. For the interests of Western fruit-growers this insect should be immediately investigated. Professor Riley asserts that the $5,000 recently voted by Congress for the investigation of the cotton-worm, which has sometimes damaged the cotton crop of the South as much as $20,000,000 in a single fortnight, might have been used to better advantage by the department; the salary of the entomologist will use up all the money, leaving next to nothing for experiments for the eradication of the pest.
—According to previous calculations the moon occupied such a position on the 29th of July, 1878, between the sun and the earth, as to throw its shadow upon the latter, causing a total eclipse of the sun’s light throughout a long stretch in this country and a partial eclipse elsewhere. The path of the total eclipse here was 116 miles wide and about 2,000 miles in length, beginning at the northwest corner of Idaho and extending through parts of Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Indian Territory, Texas and Louisiana. Favorable weather prevailed a'l along the line of totality, except to a limited extent in Texas, and all the parties of observation report excellent results. East of the Mississippi no observations of value were made, the sun being obscured by clouds. The English astronomer, J. Norman Lockyer, in a despatch to the
London Daily News, says: “The corona was markedly different from those observed in 1869,1870 and 1871, and this year’s observations have demonstrated the great variation in the structure and condition of the sun’s outer atmosphere, when there are most and fewest spots on his disk.”
—M. Ernest Bisson, in a recent session of the Academy of Sciences, at Paris, announced that he had invented a new method of rolling the wire on the bobbies of electro-magnets. His method (which he has patented) is thus described : At the end of every row he carries the wire back in a straight line to its point of departure, in order to recommence the rolling from the same side as in the preceding rows. He states that he has thus obtained very remarkable results. With the same core- of soft iron, the same pile, and the same quantity of the same wire wound in the old way or according to the new method, he finds an advantage of a third (that is, half more) in favor of his invention. His first experiments were made on bobbins of small size; but he has repeated them upon a core of iron about 22 inches long, covered with 35 lbs. of wire measuring over 2,000 feet, and has ascertained that the magnetism obtained opposed a resistance represented by 3 when the wire is wound in the way he describes, and by 2 when it is wound in the old way. Whatever be the cause of the phenomenon, there is no doubt about the fact, which is easy to ascertain.
Art, Music and Literature. .
—Signor F. Faccio has been elected member of the Paris Society of Composers.
—Of 5,095 books published in England in 1879, 2,046 were new editions of old books.
—Mr. Stanley has returned from America, entirely, we are glad to say, restored to health.
—Sig. Giuseppe Deuasini< composer of sacred music and several operas, died recently at Cairo.
—A young American lady, Miss Anna Bock, has made a favorable impression as pianist at Cologne.
—The Score says that “ Dr. Franz Huefter has succeeded Mr. Davison as musical critic on the London Times."
—Before the end of the present year, the French Normal diapason will be officially adopted throughout Russia.
—Annie Louise Cary, Emma Abbott, and Chr. Fritsch have been engaged for several concerts at Saratoga and Newport.
—The publishers of Dwight's Journal of Music are said to meditate important changes in the character of that periodical.
—Mr. H. C. Eddy, now in the East, gave a recital en route, at St. Peter’s Church, Rochester, N. Y, which was a great success.
* —Victor Massenet, who has been working at Fontainebleau during the last two months, has brought back with him a new oratorio called “La Vierge.”
—The largest college library in the United States is said to be that of Harvard, containing 160,000 volumes. Of the 356 American colleges only 16 have libraries of over 25,000 volumes.
—The London Musical Times pays Patti the following delicate compliment: Mad. Adelina Patti has gone to spend a short holiday in North Wales. We hope the nightingales will hear her sing; even they might take a lesson.”
—The catalogue of the printed books in the Bodleian Library at Oxford University is now finished. It makes 719 volumes, not including the catalogue of Bibles, the slips of which are in the course of being laid down. They will make two more volumes.
—Of late years quite a passion has grown up in Paris for handsome books. Ancient and rare works are sold for fabulous prices, and it is not unusual for a volume to fetch 1,000 or 2,000 francs. Publishers find better sale for handsome editions than for others.
—A site has been selected by the Municipality of Caen for the statue of Auber, who was born in this town. The
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
t
expense is to be defrayed by a subscription, which already amounts to 4,000 francs. The sculptor is M. Delaplanche, who has just gained the itedaiUe de Salon in Paris.
—The London Figaro says that “ Polyeucte”—Gounod’s “Polyeucte”—the “Polyeucte” that already has been so much talked of and even disputed over—is at last very near being given. As soon as the holidays of that great artist Mme. Krauss are over, the rehearsals are to commence.
—The art of chromotype-printing by which maps, bills for railroad companies, etc., are colored, is not strictly printing but is performed in the following manner. A proof is pulled on a number of cards, and each card is cut out for a single color. The card is then registered to the job, and water-colors applied with a fine grained sponge or camel’s-hair brush.
—It is stated that Signor Francelli would like to go with Mr. Mapleson to the United States, but he has heard Signor Campanini is also going, and knowing the talent of his brother artist, and the celebrity he has gained in America, he rather fears comparisons. He has no reason to do so. But still, from motives of timidity, he is at present holding off.
—At the imposing funeral service just held at Madrid for the young Queen, whose untimely death has caused such genuine sorrow throughout the country, the music was exclusively Spanish, of the 16th and 17th centuries. The choir numbered 110 voices, and the chief vocalist was the. veteran Tamberlik. The rendering of the music is admitted on all sides to have been magnificent.
■ —The Clough & Warren organs, represented by Chappell & Co. of London, are rapidly coming into favor. They received an award at our Centennial for their “ good quality of tone, volume and purity, having the character of the diapason in the ordinary organ.” The Messrs. Chappell will soon have the largest and most admirably designed warerooms in London.—American Art Jbarnal.
—A peasant named Vaug, who had exhibited remarkable literary gifts, died in Norway the other day in his 83d year. He never rose beyond a humble office in the village school, but he published, several important collections of folk music and folk songs, and in 1871 brought out a remarkable volume of local legends. He lived entirely among the people and supported himself partly by teaching and partly by breaking stones.
—The English choralists have won golden opinions at Paris, the only objections taken to the programmes provided by Mr. Leslie being that they were of too grave a character for the light-hearted Parisian audiences. It must, however, be borne in mind that Mr. Leslie had a higher aim in view than the gratification of the listeners, as his concerts were intended to represent “English Musical Art,” a result which, as far as vocal part-music is concerned, they most adequately achieved. On the whole, and within its limited range, this exposition of British musical art was a success because, it established two things past all question—first, that there had been, and are, English composers of vocal music not easy to excel; second, that there is at least one English choir as competent as Wellington’s Peninsular army to “ go anywhere and to do anything.”
—A fresh attempt has within the past few weeks been made to induce the Abbe Liszt to go to England, but again without success. Mr. Emile Enoch, the head of the London branch of the well-known music publishing house of Enoch Pfire et Fils, went over to Paris expressly to see Liszt. He was very courteously received by the Abbe in the room.which Madame Erard had placed at his disposal in her house, but to all requests to come to England Liszt gave but one reply, "jamais, jamais, jamais." Mr. Enoch offered him a blank check to fill up with his own amount, but Liszt was inflexible. He has resolved not to play again in public save now and then at charitable performances in Hungary, and, as to England, he would neither cross La JWancTte, nor did he care to revisit the land which thirty years and more ago certainly did not treat him in the most courteous fashion.
—The Chicago Apollo Club are quietly preparing a feast for their patrons next season in the way of large
and important works. They have already underlined Handel’s “ Messiah ” and “ Acis and Galatea,” and the first part of Mendelssohn’s “St. Paul,” besides a very fine repertoire of smaller works for mtennerchor and mixed voices. It is also probable, although it is not yet fully decided, that the Club will produce the “Scenes from the Frithjof-Saga,” by Max Bruch, which is written for msen-nerchor, solo voices, and orchestra, from Tegner’s text. The prospectus shows a new point of departure for the Club, and one so radical that its works will be watched with great interest. The addition of the ladies’ chorus, which hitherto has been known as the Bach choir, an organization of unusual strength and excellence, it is supposed will add greatly to its effectiveness as well as open a new field of labor from which the Club has hitherto been barred.
—All Cherubini’s manuscripts are about to be put up for sale at auction. He was an enthusiastic collector, and got together an enormous quantity both of manuscripts and autographs, in the course of his long life. He had in his possession some of the most curious and interesting pieces in manuscript of Sebastian Bach, Emmanual Bach, Beethoven, Mozart, Weber, Gluck, A. Kreutzer, Meyerbeer, Michael Haydn, Mendelssohn, Alfbechsberger, Fres-cobaldi, Sarti, Scarlatti, Ducante, Pergolesi, il Padre Martini, Cattaro, Sachini, Salieri, Viotti, Spontini, Rossini, Carafa, Auber, Herold, Halevy, Adam, etc. One, especially, a symphony (la ‘symphonie en ut mineur), by Joseph Haydn, is entirely in his own hand, and is inscribed, “ De moi, Joseph Haydn, pere du celebre Cherubini.” The French Government has for some time been in treaty with the present proprietors of these relics for one of the national libraries, aud a most liberal competing offer has been sent from Berlin. Besides a great number of the manuscripts of his known works, Cherubini left several which have never been published. These are also to be sold.
—Among the most trustworthy tests of good home training is placed that of table manners; and no individual can hope to acquire and to keep them who knows any difference in them when in the privacy of the family circle than when in company. The properly trained youth does not annoy those next to whom he sits by fidge;ing in his chair, moving his feet, playing with his bread, or with any of the table equipage. Neither does he chew his food with his mouth open, talk with it in his mouth, or make any of those noises in eating which are the characteristics of vulgarity.. His food is not conveyed in too large or small portions to his mouth; he neither holds his head as erect as if he had swallowed a ramrod, nor does he bury his face in his plate. He handles his knife and fork properly, and not “overhand” as a clown would; he removes them from the plate as soon as it is placed before him, and he places them side by side when he has finished, and not before, as this is the signal which a well drilled butler observes for removing the plate. He does not leave his coft?e spoon or tea-spoon in his cup. He avoids using his handkerchief unnecessarily, or disgusting those who are eating by trumpetlike performances with it. He does not converse in loud tones, nor indulge in uproarious laughter. If he breaks an article he is not profuse in his apologies, but shows his regret in his face and in his manner rather than in words. Some writer has said: “As it is ill-mannered to express too much regret, so it is the essence of rudeness not to make any apology.” Tittlebat Titmouse, when he broke a glass dish, assured his hostess that he would replace it with the best in London. This was rather too practical a form of showing his sincerity. The well-bred youth breaks his bread instead of cutting it, taking care not to crumble it in a slovenly way; he takes his wine holding his glass by the stem, and never drains it. He does not take wine that he does not want because he is too timid to refuse, nor does he hesitate to pass any course of which he does not wish to partake, instead of playing with it, as a writer on table etiquette advises. He swallows his food before he leaves the table, and sees no occasion for astonishment because eating in the street is forbidden. All the details of good breeding are as familiar to him as his alphabet, and he has been taught to think that attention to details in all things is the true sign of a great mind, and that he who can, in necessity, consider the smallest can also compass the largest subjects. —Exchange.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Uame, August 22, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Salutatory.
With the present issue we begin the Twelfth Volume of our little paper. May we not reasonably hope that our friends and patrons will continue to extend to us the same hand of cordial support and encouragement that has assisted us so constantly and faithfully through the vicissitudes of a long and hitherto successful career! We say “long” advisedly, for length of time is measured not so much by the courses of celestial bodies, as by the succession of terrestrial events. “ Better fifty years in England than a cycle of Cathay.”
Turn over your file of Scholastics, and in your first volume you will find mention of the planting of certain Lombardy poplars in the grounds of what was then the Novitiate—now the Professed House. Reader, those poplars sprouted, grew and waxed exceedingly great, so much so that those growing in the marsh could be seen above the roof of the Professed House which standeth on a hill in the midst thereof. And, reader, those giant forms which were infantile in our infancy have reached their maximum height. They grow no more. Decay has already marked them as his own. Behold their skeleton forms stretching their fleshless hands to heaven in proof of our assertion. Reader, dost see ? Now, there's antiquity for you!
The Scholastic, undimmed by the hand of Time, untouched by the finger of decay, cometh out in the apparel of never changing youth, and yearly addeth new gems to the diadem that encircleth her classic brows. Yea, even as the Phoenix riseth from his ashes, so riseth she from her vacational catalepsy.
Vacation, it is true, is not over yet, but the end is near. Already new faces appear at our gates. The chrysalis state is nearly past, the full-fledged imago is about to issue forth. Or shall we say that we hibernate during the summer months ? That would perhaps be a hibernicism.
Eminently useful, and pleasant too in its way, is this chrysalis state. The return of old friends, absent during the ten months of teaching, enlivens us,—refreshes us,—amuses us during the long hours of the hot summer’s day. Hot indeed it has been even here, as in those cities where Apollo has killed multitudes with his arrows; but in our shady groves, by the ever cool waters of our spring-fed lakes, to use the words of the patriotic Davis: “ Who fears to speak of 98° ?” It may be monotonous perhaps, but monotony is not intolerable when it is too hot to think.
And yet vacation has not been without incidents. The visits as well of earthly friends as of the stern Deathangel. The festival of Very Rev. Father Provincial. The Portiuncula celebration. The picnic of the Valparaiso folks. The return of Very Rev. Father General from Europe. The nocturnal alarm of fire. The procession, and blessing of the Grotto, on the Feast of the Assumption. All these and many other events will be found related in detail in our local columns. The eclipse of the sun might have been quite an event here, but was not, for envious clouds cut off the view throughout the whole afternoon. The moon behaved more satisfactorily. She rose in a very flattering state of partial obscuration on the evening of the 12th and remained in an interesting situation for over an hour. The Professor of Astronomy is happy to state that the whole performance was conducted with eminent propriety, and nothing occurred that could call a blush to the cheek of the most fastidious. Moreover, Jupiter, with his concourse of attendant satellites, accompanying his movements with the ever changing figures of their festive dance, has drawn visitors to the observatory almost every evening, when the state of the atmosphere was propitious.
Nor have those terrestrial stars, the flowers, failed in their duty of embellishing this lower sphere. The newly made beds in the neighborhood of the Grotto of Lourdes have been all ablaze with phlox, petunia and portulacca. Our front garden shows more sober hues, if we except its first gorgeous display of hollyhocks, followed by gladiolus and the tiger lily. The hollyhocks were remarkably fine this year, and of colors ranging from the deepest port-wine tint to lemon-yellow and white. This flower was a favorite, coarse as it seems, with many distinguished personages of antiquity, among whom may be reckoned the celebrated Zenobia, queen of Palmyra and the East. She was wont to appear with a blossom behind her left ear, and on occasions of great pomp she even wore the whole plant, arranged so as to stand vertically up above her back hair, an ingenious bracing keeping it in position, for which purpose a sort of Mansard extension was attached to her dress in the position now occupied by the panier. “ This,” says Longinus, her biographer and panegyrist, “was not so much for the gratification of female vanity, as to strike terror into the hearts of the evil-disposed,”—non tam ad 'oanitatem famineam inflandam, quam ad corda mdlignan-Hum terrore percutienda—^Long. de Zenob. Beg., Lib. viii, c. 15). This practice was known as “going the whole hollyhock,” a phrase somewhat debased in modern English.
The late showers have restored the green of June to our landscape, and our friends, on their return, will find Notre Dame in all its beauty. The completion of the great work begun during exhibition time, namely, the grading of the road which forms the main approach to the University, will be a pleasant surprise to our returning students, unless this should meet their eye and forewarn them. Nor does
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
11
the finishing of the church porch with its noble doors add a less charm to our surroundings.
We greet you then, kind readers, with the usual tidings of great preparations made for the influx of new students— preparations not unnecessary, if the reports we hear already of the coming throng be not strangely in error. Letters from many old students have been received, securing their well-remembered places in the study-hall, and letters from other quarters have convinced us that the securing of their places in time has been a measure of commendable prudence.
The administration of the College is still in the hands of /	the same worthy officers who conducted it so successfully
last year. In the Faculty, few changes will be found. Our corps of assistant editors, correspondents and occasionals seems likely to be increased rather than diminished, and we cordially invite the co-operation of all whom the Muse may inspire—Salvetote.
Notre Dame.
In our first issue of a new volume, and at the beginning of a new scholastic year, we give, instead of any explanation of our own of the workings of the University which might be expected by new-formed acquaintances, the following from the pen of a reverend friend—a graduate of the University of Louvain. It is in itself a little old, but new to us, having just come to hand.
From the Laporte Daily Argus of July the 4th.
. Mr. Editor :—Among the institutions of learning which give our youthful commonwealth no mean position in the Republic of Letters must be mentioned the neighboring University that crowns the picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River. Though in its infancy, it is a shrine of science worthy of the genius of liberty, illustrative of republican energy and self-reliance, a living proof that the love of the true, the good, the beautiful, is no less active today in free Columbia than it was in ancient Greece and Rome or the medieval republics of classic Italy. Notre Dame is the fruit of the labor of a few devoted men who, unaided by any endowments, whether public or private, but inspired by Christian faith and animated by the’love of letters, have within the short compass of one generation of mankind built up, as if with a magician’s wand, amid the solitude of primeval forests, a magnificent temple of knowledge and virtue, which has always achieved more than a national reputation, and sent forth from its classic domes thousands of ingenious youth, trained and disciplined to accomplish the destinies of life with credit to themselves, a profit to their fellow-men and glory to their country.
It was my good fortune to be present at the exercises of the late Commencement Day. After gazing on the stately architectural piles, contemplating scenery which art and nature have vied to make a vision of enchantment—after examining the well-furnished libraries and cabinets of Natural History, and above all on witnessing the solid proficiency of the young graduates in the different departments of their scholastic career, I could scarce realize the fact that here, where now stands this proud embodiment of the highest results of modern enlightenment, were, less than half a century ago, virgin forests that sheltered savage beasts and afforded hunting grounds for the scarcely less ferocious children of nature.
To what an extent the institution receives the confidence and patronage of the public is evidenced by halls that are thronged by students from every State and Territory of the
Union. At the close of the last scholastic year, over a hundred of the old Alumni from the most distant parts assembled within the walls of their Alma Mater to greet their old professors, renew the mutual bonds of friendship and revisit the scenes of intellectual trials and triumphs and holiest memories.
Although the scientific, literary and oratorical efforts of the candidates for academic honors were worthy of the ancient seats of learning in the Old World, and deserved special mention, the great event of the day was the brilliant oration of theRL Rev. Bishop of Peoria, the worthy inheritor of the talent and eloquence of his uncle, thelate Archbishop of Baltimore and Primate of the American Church. The written text of his discourse, published in Saturday’s edition of the Chicago Times, will convey to the mind of the reader but a very inadequate idea of the Rt. Rev. gentleman’s rhetorical or logical powers. One of the ablest and most experienced reporters of the Times declared to me that Bishop Spalding, though a young man of about thirty-five, would soon become the facile princeps among our most distinguished public speakers.
Among the day-dreams looked by the passing scene, I could not help reflecting that as we have now time to relax our energies from the task of subjugating the wilderness of a hemisphere to the arts of civilized life, one of our most important duties must henceforth be the establishment or development of centres of learning where American talent and genius may receive the best culture and reach their highest development. It is true the age of great schools like those of Paris and Oxford, which numbered their students by tens of thousands, may have forever passed away—the indefinite multiplication of books, of graded schools and colleges, has to a great extent supplied their place—still the University is a want of the age, and the special advantages it affords can never be compensated by steam-press or public school. Here the teaching faculties are composed of men skilled in the lore of every age, race and clime—men who have watched for years by the midnight lamp; here the rays of every science are concentrated in one bright, burning focus; here the contact of mind with mind in the study of the highest problems relating to man, to nature, and to nature’s God must elicit the brightest flashes of intellectual fire; here the golden links of disinterested friendship unite men of every type of politics, religion and social prejudice. It is true that a few of the brightest stars which adorn the galaxy of Letters have been self-made men—would they not, however, have reflected a brighter sheen on life’s darksome ocean had their powerful minds enjoyed the advantages of these fountain-heads of learning whence emanate
“Those polished arts which humanized mankind, Softened the rude, and calmed the boisterous mind.”
There are special features marking the system of study and discipline in vogue at Notre Dame which serve to give it such a prominence on the list of educational establishments. This institution, being under the control of a body of men whose lives are modelled according to the Gospel counsels, depends not for its success on the personal qualities of the individual; men may change, but the policy, spirit and progress of the University are not imperilled. The realization of the old maxim “Mens sana in corpora sano " is the dominant principle of their scholastic policy. The total withdrawal of the students from the distracting scenes of life’s busy pageant tends to habits of study and the development of attention, the open sesame of knowl
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
edge—while manly sports and pleasant recreations give strength to the body. The discipline is calculated to make young men truthful, honorable, frank and self-reliant, tempering the free manners of American youth with the elegant polish of France. Not only are the reasoning powers cultivated, but the moral sense is trained to duty as the highest goal of existence—and thus only can education reach the ideal of a Plato or an Apostle.
“ Thus stands a mount of God;
Its foot in storms, Its head in sunbeams.”
Among the special aid afforded to rapid and practical progress are the various societies, scientific, oratorical, musical, dramatic, editorial, etc., which exist among the alumni, and in which every grade of talent finds its ready development.
But, Mr. Editor, to shorten my prolixity let me suggest to your readers to go and see and judge for themselves, by making a pilgrimage to this sacred fane of the Muses during a scholastic term. The officers of the Institution are proverbial for their hospitality, especially the President, Very Rev. F. Corby, of the “Army of the Potomac,” whom Mars and Apollo have crowned with equal honors.
Father Sorin, the founder of the University, a native of sunny France, though silvered over with the frosts of many long winters of labor and sacrifice, together with the wisdom and experience which a life-long devotion to study and contact with the ablest intellects of the Old and New Worlds could give, still retains nearly all the fire and vigor of youth. The Very Rev. gentleman is now making his thirty-fourth voyage across the Atlantic wave in the interest of the all-absorbing idea of his life, the University of Notre Dame.	T. S.
The Portiuncula.
The 2d of August, the Feast of Our Lady of the Angels, was a great day at Notre Dame, the little Chapel of Our Lady of the Angels, or the Portiuncula, being the chief centre of attraction, on account of the Indulgence of the Great Pardon, as it is called, attached to the visits there on that day, from the first Vespers of the 1st (about 3 o’clock, to the second Vespers of the 2d (about sunset). This Indulgence dates from the year 1221, when it was granted to St Francis of Assisium by our Lord Himself, and confirmed afterwards, by the Divine request, by His Vicar, Pope Honorius III. It was at first confined to the small Church of Our Lady of the Angels at Assisi, commonly called the Portiuncula, from the field in which it was situated. Here it was that, St. Francis being in prayer, our Lord appeared to him, accompanied by His Blessed Mother, in whose honor the church (or chapel rather, for it was very small) was dedicated, and which was sanctified by the tears, prayers and works of penance of the seraphic Francis—here it was that our Lord appeared to him, surrounded by a multitude of angels, who encouraged him to ask a favor for the salvation of souls. The Saint, thus encouraged, said to our Lord: “I, a poor sinner, ask of Thy Divine Majesty this favor for the Christian people,—that all who, having sincerely confessed, devoutly visit this church, may obtain a general Indulgence, and full remission of all their rins” The request was not immediately granted, but Francis persisted in prayer, asking also the intercession of our Blessed Lady, and it was finally granted, with the provision that he should repair to the Vicar of Christ and have
it formally conceded, asking for it in the name of the Lord. This Francis did. The Pope seemed surprised at the extraordinary petition, and notwithstanding his respect for the Saint he seemed at first inclined to refuse—the more especially as the Cardinals present opposed the grant. However, our Lord moved the heart and enlightened the mind of His Vicegerent, and the favor was granted, limiting it to one day. This day was not settled on, and it was not until 1223 that St. Francis ascertained in a second vision that it was to be from first Vespers of the 1st of August till sunset the following day. All things being arranged, the Pope confirmed the extraordinary Indulgence and commissioned seven Prelates, the Bishops of Assisi, Perugia, Todi, Spoleto, Follgno, Nocera and Gubbio, to repair to the little church on the 1st of August, 1223, and there solemnly proclaim it in the name of the Pope.
Since 1223 thousands of pilgrims visited the Portiuncula every year on the 1st of August to gain the Indulgence. On this occasion all the confessors of the vicinity were -engaged day and night in administering the Sacrament of Penance to the contrite sinners. And thus it is still at present, though the pilgrims may be less numerous. As the little church, or rather chapel, is not able to hold even a hundred persons, the visitors walk through the chapel in endless processions praying and singing. They enter at a door below and leave at a side-door of the upper end. This procession through the church commences with Vespers on the 1st of August, at the moment when the great bell of the Sagro Convento in Assisi (where now rests the body of St. Francis) is rung, and continues throughout the whole night without interruption, until sunset of the following day. At present the cupola of a magnificent dome vaults above the chapel of Portiuncula, yet on the day of this famous Indulgence even the large rotunda is too small for the immense number of pilgrims.
Such is the origin of the Indulgence of Portiuncula, the truth of which no one is able to question without great temerity, as the learned Pontiff Benedict XIV expresses it in his work De Synodo. Now let us see how the Indul-gence.has been conferred also on other churches.
For more than 200 years, this Indulgence could not be gained in any other church than the Chapel of Portiuncula, not even by the children of St. Francis. Pope Sixtus IV. (1480) was the first who granted that all the nuns who lived encloistered and followed a rule of St. Francis might gain this Indulgence in their own chapel in order to prevent the many evils resulting from the journeying of so many religious of both sexes. The same privilege was soon after granted in like manner to the Brothers of the First Order and also to the Tertians. Finally Pope Gregory XV, in the Bull Splendor paierna glories of the 4th of July, 1622, extended the Indulgence to all the churches of the three orders of St. Francis. Hence all the faithful of the secular as well as religious state may gain this Indulgence in said churches, as though in the Chapel of the Portiuncula itself, provided however, that besides making a good Confession, they also receive Holy Communion, which latter condition is not prescribed for those that visit the Chapel of Portiuncula. The same Indulgence has been conferred also by the Sovereign Pontiffs on the churches of the Order of Capuchins, Conventuals (Minorites), Poor Clares and religious women, of the Third Order of St. Francis. In some countries, and first in Bavaria, this same privilege was also extended to many parochial churches in places where there was no church of the Franciscan order.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
13
Our little Chapel of the Portiuncula here is a fac-sitnile (as is that at St. Mary’s of Loretto) of the original chapel at Assisi, and has the Indulgence of the Great Pardon attached to it, with many others obtained from Rome, among which is a privileged altar. Hence it is every year thronged with pilgrims on the 2d of August. The Indulgence of the Great Pardon enjoys a special privilege, namely that it can be gained more than once on the same day, for it may be gained ioties quoties, that is as often as the visit is made and the stipulated prayers said—that is, once for one’s self, . and the rest for the souls in purgatory.
This, then, makes our little Chapel of the Portiuncula a precious and much frequented spot on the 2d of August. This year there was even more than the usual number of pilgrims. Among those present were ladies from Ohio ' and Michigan, some Benedictine Sisters from Minnesota, and other visitors or travellers, who might have been passing at the time, or stopping here or in the neighborhood, From early morning the Chapel was crowded, Masses being celebrated every half hour until 10 o’clock, when a Solemn High Mass was celebrated. Rev. Father L’Etour-neau was kept busy throughout the afternoon giving the cord of St. Francis, blessing crucifixes, etc., and the chapel was crowded almost to suffocation with a continuous throng of visitors.
The Chapel had been decorated by tasty hands for the - occasion, and presented quite a handsome appearance. The 2d of August, 1878, is a day to be remembered, and we hope that succeeding years will leave as pleasing and beautiful a record as this one.
The Feast of the Assumption at Notre Dame.
The 15th of August, the Feast of the Assumption of our Blessed Lady into heaven, was kept in a becoming manner at Notre Dame. The day set in bright and auspicious, but early in the afternoon an occasional cloud and light shower threatened to interfere with the procession, which usually takes place in the afternoon, after Vespers. High Mass was celebrated in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at the usual hour, 10 o’clock, Very Rev. A. Granger being celebrant, Rev. D. J. Spillard deacon, Rev. C. Kelly-subdeacon, and Mr. J. Sullivan, C. S. C., master of ceremonies. The sermon was preached by Rev. Father Reville, of the Order of Friar Preachers, who had come to Notre Dame from Washington to conduct the Retreat of the Sisters of the Holy Cross at the Academy. The subject of his discourse was the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary. The learned aud eloquent preacher showed the fitness of this ending to a beautiful, admirable and unique life by explaining the dignity and prerogatives of the Holy Mother of God, her immaculate conception, her correspondence with grace, her co-operation as representative of the human race in the grand drama of Redemption, and her place in the Divine economy as the representative woman, as Christ was the representative man—the pride, the boast, the rehabilitator and model of her sex—the chosen daughter of God the Father, the Spouse of the Holy Ghost, and the Mother of the God-Man, the Second Person of the Adorable Trinity, who had taken upon Himself our human nature in her womb for the redemption of the world. Father Reville's discourse was one of the most eloquent we have ever had the pleasure of listening to, and we have no doubt that many who had never seriously considered the matter before in the light in
which he presented it were resolved thenceforward to appreciate more profoundly and copy more closely the beautiful models held up before them. Father Revillfi is a fine type of the sacred orator, uniting in his manner the fire of the soldier with the ascetic unction of the Christian scholar. He was in his youth a cadet at the celebrated military school of St. Cyr in France, but after an interview with the celebrated Father Lacordaire decided to join the Order of St. Dominic, or Friar Preachers.
In the afternoon the preparations making throughout the week for the procession began to show themselves in beautiful scenic effect. Numbers of triumphal arches, handsomely draped in various colors, with the blue preponderating, sprang into existence as if by magic along the entire route of the procession; the College and infirmary buildings were hung with pictures; statues appeared here and there in suitable places, with appropriate surroundings-After Vespers, the procession formed in front of the Church, where a combination of decorated arches had been erected, and passed thence around St. Joseph’s Lake. The procession was perhaps a quarter of a mile long, and as it began to show itself at the brow of the hill above the lake, chanting the Litany, a salute was fired from a cannon on the opposite shore. First in the procession, after the cross-bearer and accompanying acolytes, came the College boys, then the Brothers of the Holy Cross, to the number of about two hundred, followed by a long line of seminarians and priests, chaunting appropriate canticles and hymns, conspicuous among the latter the tall and venerable figure of Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, who had but lately returned to the scene of his early labors at Notre Dame after a lengthened stay in Rome and France- Next came the Sisters of the Holy Cross, numbering some four hundred and more, with the twenty-nine newly professed of their number crowned with their profession wreaths. The procession wound up with the visitors and Catholic neighbors. It was a beautiful sight—one well calculated to gladden the Christian heart. Having rounded the lake, the processionists halted in front of the newly erected Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes, which was then blessed by Very Rev. Father Sorin, after which they entered the Church for Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
Taken altogether, the Lady-Day celebration of 1878 at Notre Dame was a memorable one, the preparations for its celebration being second only to those of Corpus Christi, and everything uniting to give fit expression to the joy of Catholic hearts at the commemoration of the triumph of our Blessed Mother.
The Fire.
Saint Laurence’ Festival had reached its close, The sun had set—the twilight too had passed, When Saturn’s* pale, malefic orb appeared Above the forest east of Notre Dame.
The ruler now of Aries’ fiery sign, And working ill to all he gazed upon.
The guardian of the printing house, with care, Made at that hour bis final evening round To see that all was well; and all seemed well, Save that upon the breathless stagnant air,
* On the 10th of August, Saturn being in the First Hour of Aries, rose between 8 and 9 p. m. and culminated between 2 and 3 a. m. on the 11th.
14
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
There lingered odors of a smouldering fire : “ Some brush-heap burns,” quoth he, and dallied not;
But Saturn’s work of hate was going on.
Midnight is past, and wrapt in balmy sleep, The brotherhood repose, and all is still;
But he that bears the name of that great Saint Whose festival was just completed, found No rest upon his iron bed, perhaps His patron’s fiery couch * had on his mind Taken too strong a hold,—perhaps the Saint, While danger threatened would not let him sleep. Howe’er'it might be, from his restless bed He rose, and paced unresting up and down.
’Twas two o’clock and past, and Saturn’s orb Had reached meridian height—ha! what is that ?— That lurid flicker in the printing house ?
Struggling with volumes of outpouring smoke, Seen by the moonlight streaming from the West?
’Tis fire—devouring fire—an outcry soon Arouses all the sleeping brotherhood, And pistol shots are heard, as though it were Detected as incendiary work, But no incendiary was at hand, The pistol only echoed to arouse.
Now at the pumps behold a motley throng, A line is formed, the wave baptismal flows To rescue from the flames. Some on the roof Are forcing entrance; some at the windows try Though oft repulsed by suffocating clouds. They seek to trace the cause of all the ill And fight the evil in its origin.
Meanwhile that moist and watery orb, the Moon + Is forcing to Aquarius her way Where Jupiter awaits her: thus they join To frustrate Saturn’s evil purposes ;
And then the fire is checked, and all retire
To bind their wounds and thank the heavenly powers.
Saumi Lb Goffe.
* St. Laurence was broiled to death on a red hot gridiron.
f The moon was reputed a watery planet by the old astrologers. She was passing through the last degrees of Capricorn during the fire, and entered Aquarius, there forming a conjunction with the beneficent planet Jupiter just as the fire ceased. And yet there are some that refuse to believe in Astrology!
Personal.
—Rev. Father Spillard goes to Austin, Texas.
—Mr. M. Mahoney, C. S. C., goes to New Orleans.
—Bro. Francis Assisi remains janitor at Notre Dame.
—Very Rev. Father General arrived here on the 8th inst.
—Very Rev. W. Corby is local Superior at Notre Dame.
—Bro. Urban remains in charge at Trenton, New Jersey.
—Rev. J. Lauth is pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, South - Bend.
—Rev. Father Tighe, of Chicago, paid us a visit this month.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney has been absent in Canada during vacation;
—Bro. Marcellinus takes charge of the Academy at La Salle, HL
—Rev. Father Paul remained with us a few days during the month.
—Rev. V. Czyzewski remains pastor of the Polish Church, South Bend.
—Rev. E. Lilly is Director of the Musical Department at Notre Dame.
—Joseph Shanks (Commercial, of’70,) is clerking in Milwaukee, Wis.
—Bro. Celestine remains at Notre Dame this year in his usual position.
—Bro. Cyril has been appointed Director of . the school in Springfield, Ill.
—Rev. T. O’Sullivan and Mr. Wile, of Laporte, paid us a visit during vacation.
—Edward Shea (Commercial, of ’70,) is storekeeping somewhere in Texas.
—Rev. Thos. Kennedy, of ’60, now of Brooklyn, N. V., was here in vacation.	v
■=—Rev. Father Toohey has been appointed Superior of the Missionary corps.
—Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, of '66, is Assistant City Treasurer, Milwaukee, Wis.
—Masters Widdicombe, Canoil and Gibbons visited the College during vacation.	__
—William Nelson (Commercial, of’68,) is in business with his father in Chicago, Ill.
—J. W. Nash (Commercial, of’65,) is cashier in the First National Bank of Milwaukee.
—Rev. Father Franciscus remains President of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, Ohio.
—Profs. Ivers, Howard and Stace will occupy the same positions at the College this year.
—Constantine V. Gallagher, of ’67, is prospering in Omaha, where he is practicing law.
—Rev. A. M. Kirsch, Mr. L. Meehan, C. S. C., and Bros. Alban, Paul and Jerome go to Watertown, Wis.
—The University was honored by a visit from Gen. T. T. Torrence, of Chicago, on Monday last.
—Rev. J. A. O’Connell is amongst the number of those who remain at Notre Dame this year.
—Mr. B. Crowe, of Detroit, Mich., paid the College a flying visit on July 18th. He is always a welcome visitor.
—Bro. Remigius has charge of the school at Covington. He is assisted by Bros. Benjamin, Felix, and several others.
—Rev. P. J. Golovin remains pastor at St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., with Rev. P. Lauth as assistant.
—Rev. T. Carroll has been appointed Director of Studies at the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis.
—Rev. Father T. Gunn, pastor of St. Paul’s Church, Burlington, Iowa, favored Notre Dame with a visit-the past week.
—Mr. William Canavan, of’75 and ’76, of Susquehanna, Pa., paid us a visit on Sunday the 11th, accompanied by Mr. Lynch, of Chicago.
—Rev. J. O’Keefe, C.' S. C., has been appointed Vice-President, Director of Studies and Steward at St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati.
—Rev. N. Stoffel, C. S.-C., is spending a part of his vacation at Dubuque, Iowa, and Mr. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., at Watertown, Wis.
—Rev. J. M. Toohey preached the Retreat at the College, and Rev. Father Reville, O. P., of Washington, gave the Retreat at Saint Mary’s.
—We regret to learn that Rev. J. E. Shannahan, of ’70, assistant pastor to Rev. Maurice J. Dorney, of Lockport, Ill., has fallen into poor health.
—Miss Reilly, of Fond du Lac, daughter of the gentlemanly proprietor of the National Hotel, paid- Notre Dame a visit during the month of July.
—Very Rbv. W. Corby remains President of the College at Notre Dame; Rev. T. E. Walsh, Prefect of Studies, and Rev. C. Kelly, Prefect of Discipline.
—Rev. Michael Horgan, class of ’67, and now assistant pastor of St. John’s Church, Chicago, paid Notre Dame a flying visit during the early part of vacation.
—Mr. Joseph McManus, of ’74, paid us a brief visit during vacation. He is studying for the priesthood at the College of the Basilian Fathers, Sandwich, Canada.
—Hon. John M. Gearin, of ’74, accompanied by his bride
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
15
paid his Alma Mater a short visit during his bridal tour. We "wish the newly wedded pair unclouded happiness.
—Rev. Denis Keiley, of Salt Lake City, Utah, and Rev. T. F. Cashman, pastor of St. Jarlath’s Church, Chicago, were among the visitors to Notre Dame during vacation.
—Mr. Henry Kennedy, of Eldorado County, California, whose children had received an education at Notre Dame in years past, paid his first visit to Notre Dame during the past week.
—We were pleased to see Mr. George F. McCurdy, of ’70, among the visitors to Notre Dame, from Valparaiso, on the 3d of August. He is conductor on one of the lines of railway running through Valparaiso.
—Bros. Theodore, Timothy and Emilius have been appointed Prefects in the Senior Department; Bros. Leander, Laurence and Hugh in the Junior Department, and Bro. Albert in the Minim Department.
—Rev. Father P. Creighton, pastor of the Church of Our Lady of Victory, Brooklyn, N. Y., who was here about Commencement time, paid Notre Dame his first visit since he attended class here about twenty or twenty-two years ago.	4
—We regret to learn that John J. Carmody, Jr., of Spring-.field, Illinois, who was a student here during ’73 arid ’74, and left an excellent record—having received a second honor—was killed by sun-stroke during the heated term in July last. Eequiescat in pace.
—Wesee it stated that Mr. C. M. Proctor, of’75, who holds the position of Civil Engineer in Elkhart, Ind., is the Republican nominee for Surveyor at the coming election. We have little doubt that Mr. Proctor will do equal honor and give equal satisfaction as surveyor to that given by him as Civil Engineer.
—Our old friend Rev. James E. Hogan, of’73, whose ordination at Mt. St. Mary’s of the West, Cincinnati, we announced some time ago, has, we are rejoiced to learn, received the appointment of assistant pastor to Rev. P. Farrelly, of Galena, Ill., one of the most zealous priests in the diocese of Chicago.
—Mr. Arthur Hatt, a student at Notre Dame, has returned home to spend a few weeks with his friends. Arthur is evidently becoming proficient in his studies, especially in crayon-drawing, judging from a well-executed portrait from his band which was shown us the other day. —Goshen {Ind.) Times.	■
—Mr. T. M. O’Leary (Commercial, of ’75,) spent a week his alma mate)' during vacation. He is still principal of Rev. Father O’Rourke’s school at Middletown, Ohio, and is in the enjoyment of excellent health and spirits. He professed much surprise and pleasure at the improvements effected here during the last few years.
—We see by an item in_the Terre Haute Gazette that Mr-James W. Bell, of ’77, one of the enthusiastic Nimrods whose gun seldom missed its mark during the excursions to the St. Joseph Farm, has won the gold medal at the first shooting match of the T .H. A. S. Club of Terre Haute, Ind., killing a bird at every shot, six times successively. Quite a large party had assembled on the commons south ot the city to witness the contest.
—Dr. Cassidy, of ’66, one of the best physicians in Indiana, and who has for some years past filled the position of attending physician at the College in an able and successful manner, pays us an occasional visit. Notwithstanding the great heat recently, the general health is so good that the doctor’s professional services are seldom called for, a fact which of course we do not regret, and which no doubt is in a measure attributable to the doctor’s care and ability.
—The Rev. Edward J. McLaughlin, M. A., of ’75, who 'not long ago was ordained priest by Right Rev. Bishop Hennessy of Dubuque, and who celebrated his first Mass on Ascension Thursday at the Cathedral in that city, is now assistant pastor to his brother, Rev. P. V. McLaughlin, of Clinton, Iowa. Father McLaughlin was a solid student, and will, we have no doubt, prove an excellent priest,— one, withal, whose amiable manners must endear him as much to his parishioners as they did to his schoolfellows during his college course.
is —Prof. M. T. Corby, now of Chicago, paid Notre Dame
a visit during vacation. The Professor’s geniality (outside the class-room) flags not in the least, and he is as fond of music and song as in days of yore. He is, we believe, still connected with the Apollo and one or two other high-toned amateur musical clubs in Chicago, with whom he spends an occasional leisure hour. The Professor possesses considerable talent as a teacher in many branches, but he seems to keep the class-room at a respectful distance. To the refractory his eye, like that of the elder Napoleon, spoke volumes, while his lips were mute.
—Of Prof. A. J. Stace, so well known to all the old and late students at Notre Dame,—he having been connected with the College for a number of years,—the South Bend Herald, speaking of the nominees of the late Democratic Convention in that city, says: “ A. J. Stace was renominated as candidate for Surveyor without opposition. This is a deserved compliment to one of the most competent surveyors and engineers that has ever fixed a transit or run a line in St. Joseph County. Mr. Stace has already filled the office for two terms with the utmost satisfaction to the people of the County, and is therefore so well known that he needs no commendation from us. His triumphant re-election is a foregone conclusion.” “ One of the most competent surveyors that has ever fixed a line or run a transit in St. Joseph County” is a strong eulogium, but one that is well deserved; we who have known Prof. Stace intimately for so many years can endorse it, and say that a .better man for the position could scarcely be found.
—Prof. T. E. Howard, who a short time ago was elected to the South Bend City Council, now receives the unanimous choice of the Democratic Convention at South Bend for County Clerk. Prof. Howard’s naturally retiring disposition kept him out of the field of politics until abont two years ago, and the unanimous choice of the late Convention shows that he is becoming more popular as he becomes better known. The South Bend Herald of August 7th gives quite a lengthy sketch of the honored Professor’s career. He was a soldier in the late war, and so severely wounded in the battle of Shiloh that his life was for a time despaired of. Prof. Howard is also a scholar of considerable ability and has written several works, prominent among which are “Excelsior,” one of the best works on etiquette with which we are acquainted, a series of tales for the young, entitled “Uncle Edward’s Stories,” an English Grammar, etc. We wish the esteemed Professor the success which he so richly deserves.
^-Among the visitors at Notre Dame during vacation were Rev. Father Reveille, 0. P., of Washington, D. C.; Rev. A. J. Fischer. East Walnut Hills, Cincinnati; Rev.T.F. Cashman, of Chicago, and Rev. D. Keiley, of Salt Lake City, Utah; Miss M. R. Jamison, of Wheeling, West Virginia; Miss Mary E. Smalley, of Jefferson, Ohio; Miss Addie Alterauge, of Detroit, Mich.; Ignatius Seeger, of Dubuque, Iowa; Dr. J. J. Finley, W. J. Fowler, and Prof. R. King, of Chicago; Mr. and Sirs. Schnelker, of New Haven, Ind.; Sirs. J. Beeley and F. N. Peck, of Toledo, Ohio; Mrs. AT. Perkins, Dr. E. H. Densler, D. B. Sturgis, and Z. SI. Doolittle, of South Bend; Mr. Howard Morgan and Sliss Jane E. Slorgan, of Freemansburg, N. Y.; Milton Allen, of Chicago; Prof. S. Z. Sharp, of Slarysville College, Tenn.; Sir. H. White and Dr. E. Doyle, of Paterson, N. J.; Sir. A. Deering, of Philadelphia, Pa.; Mr. Charles J. Sterling and Sliss Agnes E. Sterling, of Niles, Mich.; Miss Kate Delavan, of Alma, Slich.; Sir. Joseph Kleine and Sir. B. H. Bordker, of E. Walnut Hills, Cincinnati; Mr. T. A Dailey, of Rochester, N. Y.; Sirs. Dr. Cady, of Lafayette, Ind.; Mr. A. J. Clarke, of Washington, D. C.; Sir. T. J. SlcDonough, of New York, and many others whose names we did not receive.	.
Obituary.
—On Slonday last, intelligence of the death of De. Bigelow, father of Rev. F. C. Bigelow, C. S. C., and Sister Blanche, of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, reached Notre Dame. Dr. Bigelow was an old and much esteemed citizen of Detroit, and during a long career had by his edifying life and engaging manners, the offspring of culture and true Christian charity, endeared himself to a host of friends, far and near. Dr. Bigelow had passed the 70th
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
year of his age. His death was caused by a fall, received some months ago, breaking one of his legs and confining him to his bed, which he never again left. He departed this life about 8 o’clock on Sunday evening last. We have as yet received no further particulars. May he rest in peace!
' Local Items.
—“Say, old boy, did you see the eclipse?”
—It behooveth you to remember the third of September.
—Twenty-five students remained at the College during vacation.
—Brother Francis Assisi has been kept very busy showing visitors around.
—There have been many improvements made around the College during vacation.
—We have had several letters from our friend John; he is determined to be here on time.
—Every student should come prepared to join the Le-monnier Circulating Library Association.
—If you wish to procure the best located desks in the study-hall be here when school commences.
—Considerable additions have been made to the Lemon-nier Circulating Library by Prof. Edwards.
.—Brother Alfred has been busy in both study-halls during vacation; they look very sprightly now.	.
—The improvements made on the road leading from the College to South Bend, although not complete, look very grand.
—The masons and carpenters are at work on the extension of the Minims’ play-hall. It will be ready by the 1st of September.	.
—The smallest Minim is pomologist enough to point out the tree in the orchard that bears the sweetest and mellowest apples.
—We have been informed that Bro. Leander is determined to make everything pleasant and comfortable for the Juniors this year.
—Prof. 0. M. Schnurrer has been on a vacation trip as far as the Rocky Mountains, and has had a pleasant time among friends on the route.
—We learn that Rev. Father O’Keefe was very warmly greeted by the people of St. Edward’s parish, Cincinnati, on his return from Notre Dame.
—By a mistake the average of Mr. P. F. McCullough, of the Senior Department, was given as 86 instead of 96 in the last issue of the Scholastic.
—We understand that any student remaining unnecessarily at South Bend on his way to the College, will be deprived of honors; look out, boys!
—The name of Master Willie J. McCarthy, of Booneville, Mo., was omitted through mistake in the list of students receiving prizes on Commencement-Day.
—Several exciting games of hand and baseball were played during the past two months. The Campus presented a lively appearance, especially in the evening.
—We were glad to learn that Prof. Howard received the nomination for County Clerk. The election takes place in October, and we have no doubt as to the result.
—Our esteemed Vice-President, Rev. Father Walsh, was called away to Canada, very unexpectedly, week before last, by news of the serious illness of his father.
—Very Rev. President Corbj’ spent the entire vacation at Notre Dame attending to correspondence, etc., which fact speaks well of the prospect for the coming year.
—The painters are at work in the new Church, on the altars in the wings of the building. We notice also that the students’ office is being brushed up and repainted.
—A number of students have kept up a correspondence with the prefects and the students remaining at the College. The letters are very interesting, giving an account of their travels during vacation.
—Things at the Manual Labor School go on as usual.
Plenty of work in the shops, and deft hands to do it. There has been no change iu the personal of the establishment for the coming year, that we know of.	.
—The students who remained during the vacation amused themselves with boating on the lake, fishing, together with the different field-sports, etc., which go to form	‘
the general stock of amusements throughout the year.
—Rev R. Maher is now stationed in Iowa. He is very well liked by the congregation, and that is what we expected. Father Maher is a very zealous priest, and as	1
such he is- held in high esteem, no matter where he goes.
We wish him every success in his new mission.	i
—There was quite a crowd of Minims here during the vacation. An elderly person might suppose the sudden change from the old busy routine of term-time might	*
after a while pall on the little fellows. But no,—not a bit	”
of it. What with the vacation class, campus pastimes, excursions, etc., the time passed cheerily with them.
—The Minims have a store out on the Campus where they play excursion party and cook the fish they catcli in the lake. They have what they term “A square meal” three or four times a day, not to speak of the regular meals in the refectory. We believe the best cuisini^re in the world could not please the little fellows half as well as their own cooking.	"	•
—Rev. Father O’Reilly, of Valparaiso, Ind., accom-	I
panied by 400 of his congregation, visited Notre Dame on the 3d inst, and held a grand picnic on the Scholasticate grounds. Among the number was our old friend P. Sullivan of ’74 and ’75, who has-charge of Rev. F. O’Reilly’s schools. He is also a member of the brass baud that accompanied the picnic, and which, by the way, we considered very good for a church band.
—Owing to the lately increasing number of pupils in	■
the Minim Department an addition to their play-room is	i
being made. It is intended, we believe, that one of the	&
gables be fitted with offsets outside for a ball-alley for fine	”
weather use. The boys will have similar accommodations inside; so that what with the amusements heretofore enjoyed by these jolly little fellows—and they seem to have been unaware of anything lacking to their enjoyment, judging by their happy faces and manner—they will have	-
plenty of amusements and ample room to swing and	1
tumble around in.
—We are happy to chronicle the safe arrival from France,	;
of Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the Con-	, |
gregation of the Holy Cross. He arrived here on Friday *: morning, August 9th, in excellent health, but somewhat fatigued from his long journey. At 7 a. m. he held a levee,	.,
at which the Community, Professors, and guests then remaining at the University were present. Prof. A. J. Stace, in behalf of the Community, addressed him in a few well-chosen words. An appropriate address was also read by Master Willie McDevitt, from the Minim Department, to which Father General in his usual amiable manner	■
responded.
—Miss Mary Regina Jamison, of Wheeling, West Va.,	’
who paid Notre Dame and St. Mary’s a visit during vaca-	*
tion, says that the fac-simile of the Grotto of Lourdes at St. Mary’s Academy comes nearer the original than any that she has seen either in this country or in Europe.
Miss Jamison resided for some time at Lourdes, during a	I
tour made by her to Europe, and of course her opinion	)
carries much weight. She seemed very favorably im-	1
pressed with the new Church of Our Lady of the Sacred	i
Heart at Notre Dame and said it was one of the nicest she	f
had seen in her travels. Miss Jamison is an ardent client of Our Lady of Lourdes, and has with praiseworthy zeal de-	•
voted much of her valuable time towards raising funds by	।
subscription for the new church erecting at the far-famed Grotto on the banks of the Gave. Those wishing to contribute to the fund may address her at No. 56 Fifteenth St., Wheeling, W. Va.	\
—Rev. Father J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., has been on a	'
European tour for the last two months but will (D. v.) be	‘
here again in time for the opening of classes in September.	i
He is, of course, travelling in the interest of the University,	-
and during his trip has taken in many of the principal Universities and Colleges on the Continent of Europe,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	17
among others that of Strasburg, the Royal Polytechnic of Karlsruhe, the University of Brussels, and the Gymnasium, at Luxemburg, which latter has among its teachers Dr. Wiese, one of the most celebrated scholars and scientists of Europe. Last accounts from Rev. F. Zahm left him in Paris, where he had visited the Exposition a couple of times in appointment with some fellow-scientists and seeing about some apparatus. He says the Exhibition buildings are finer than those of the Centennial, at Philadelphia, but he thinks the exhibits not so fine or extensive, as far as he had seen. After a few weeks in sight-seeing, etc., in Paris, Rev. F. Zahm was to start for London, intending to visit the British Museum, Royal Polytechnic, Catholic University, etc., previous to his return home.
—The number of “ tramps,” as they are called, that make their appearance here almost every day at meal hours is surprising. Where do they come from, and what is the cause of their vagabond life? That we cannot tell. But one thing we do know: this tramping business could be stopped in a way that would prove equally beneficial to all parties, to the tramps themselves, to the civil authorities, and the country at large, if our legislators would take the matter properly in hand, as it is their duty to do, for anything that tends to the welfare of the people lies within the province of those appointed by the people to attend to their affairs. Here in Indiana, for instance, where tramps must receive food and clothing—for they will have it in some other way, if not given to them—they could very well be employed in beneficial public works, at a small salary, besides boarding and clothing them. There are miles and miles of marsh lands that are now not only good for nothing, but are a source of nuisance besides, which, if drained, would perhaps prove equal to any in the State, and the draining of which would conduce much towards health. Look, for instance, at the Kankakee and other large marshes, which if drained would not only raise the head of navigation higher up the Wabash, but would also give land enough to pay the expense of drainage ten times over. This besides doing away with so much that is now a cause of malaria along the banks of the Kankakee and Wabash. We hope some of the Solons in our legislative halls will take the matter in hand and rid the State of a double nuisance.
An Indiana Academy.
From the Baltimore Catholic Mirror of August 17.
Messrs. Editors:—During a recent visit in the West, kind fortune favored me withlhree weeks’ sojourn at Notre Dame, Indiana, amd to my great surprise the University and neighboring Convent so far exceeded public reports that I venture to hope your readers will be interested in a detailed account of these two admirable institutions.
' Let us commence at St. Mary’s Academy with its superior educational advantages—every branch of a fine English education can be acquired here in the most thorough manner ; French and German form part of the regular course, and are properly taught by French and German Sisters. The studio is a larg<*, well-lighted room, liberally supplied with pictures, casts, models and artists’ utensils of every description, under the direction of artists competent to instruct pupils in every variety of drawing and painting, from nature as well as mere copying. No wonder the music of St. Mary’s has gained a far-famed reputation of excellence, for the head of the musical department is an English con-, vert, whose rare abilities, inherited from a gifted musical family, received the highest culture. The museum is quite an interesting collection, though yet in its infancy, and curiosities from the animal, vegetable and mineral kingdoms would be very welcome from any person. Plain sewing, dress-making, cooking, housekeeping, besides all sorts of embroidery and fancy work can be learned in the Academy, so the capabilities of the house are'varied and extensive. The study-halls, class rooms, recreation rooms—in fact, the whole house, is made cheerful and attractive by pictures, flowers, hanging-baskets, etc. Then, this gem of the West is in a naturally beautiful situation, with handsomely'laid-out grounds, abundance of flourishing trees, fine shrubbery, lovely flowers, delightful fountains, pretty pavilions, nu
merous varieties of birds—everything to make the place charming. The St. Joseph River winds around the south and west, and the high bluff on which St. Mary’s stands commands extensive views of the finely cultivated country across the river. To sanctify all these natural enjoyments, there is a spiritual atmosphere pervading the whole place that would rejoice the heart of Father Faber: plenty of beautiful oratories in the house and about the play-grounds, a Grotto of Lourdes, and a fac-simile of the Holy House of Loretto. Although an indoor arrangement, the grotto is the first correct reproduction of the real Grotto of Lourdes that I have seen in America. Many churches and religious houses have so-called grottoes, but they are only handsome oratories, entirely unlike the rocky spot where our Immaculate Mother appeared to Bernadette. The inaccurate pictures sent to this country must, bear the blame of these mistakes; it is difficult to understand why such pictures should be scattered broadcast through the world, when correct copies of the place could as easily be had. Defects in pictures of imaginary subjects may be excused, but it is unpardonable to send forth unfaithful representations' of a sacred place so accessible as the Holy Grotto of Lourdes. At an early date the Mother Superior intends having a grotto in the Academy grounds at a spot on the river bank closely resembling the natural situation of the Grotto at Lourdes. No doubt many devout persons who find it impossible to cross the ocean will then gladly make a pilgrimage to Sr. Mary’s Grotto, and at the same time avail themselves of the great spiritual advantages to be_ obtained by visiting the Loretto Chapel. Every one knows" the history of the Holy House, or Home of the Holy Family; its miraculous transportation from the Holy Land to Loretto, the extra walls piously built around it, the grand Basilica subsequently erected over it, and the rich indulgences attached to it. Now, the chapel at St. Mary’s is a perfect copy of the Holy House as it stands with closely encircled walls in the interior of the Basilica at Loretto. On the Gospel side of the altar is this golden inscription: “ Clement VIH accorded to all who visit the Church of Loretto a Plenary Indulgence. Clement IX, by Apostolic Brief, Sep. 26, 1707, confirmed this Indulgence and made it applicable to the souls in purgatory.” On the epistle side is a corresponding marble tablet bearing these words: “At the prayer of Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the 'Congregation of the Holy Cross, Sep. 20,1860, our Holy Fattier Pius IX accorded this chapel the Indulgence granted to the Santa Casa by Clement VIII.” The lovely statue of our Blessed Mother with the Infant Jesus in her arms, standing in the niche behind the altar, is handsomely decorated with votive offerings; many votive lamps are suspended about the altar, which is neatly and elegantly adorned. Above the tabernacle door is inscribed. “Hie Verhum caro factumest.” Beneath the door, “ Et habitamt in nobis f and on the door is a painting of the Holy House being transported by angels. The chapel is also lighted from above, and there is also a small stained glass window of the Immaculate Conception opposite the altar, and over this window we read that “ The plan of the Santa Casa was brought from Loretto by Rev. Father Gillespie in 1856. This Chapel was built according to that plan, and solemnly blessed in 1859. Rev. Father Gillespie died at St. Mary’s, Nov. 12,1874. Bequiescat in pace." With the Most Adorable Sacrament always in the tabernacle, and a Plenary Indulgence attached to every visit, one can readily imagine the constant, fervent devotion of the community, pupils and other visitors to this favored chapel.
Through the zeal of ths Father General and Mother Superior, many pious confraternities have been established at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. For example, the Confraternity of the Sacred Face in reparation of blasphemies and profanations of Sunday, founded at Tours, enriched with many indulgences and blessed by numerous miraculous favors: the Archconfraternity of the Most Precious Blood, erected in Rome, and highly indulgenced; the Archconfraternity of Our Lady of Lourdes; the Archconfraternity of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart; the Archconfraternity of Perpetual Adoration and Work for Poor Churches. For all these there are numerous indulgences aud other great advantages. Any good Catholic can obtain admission to one or all of the associations by applying
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to Father Granger, the Director at Notre Dame, or to the Mother Superior at St. Mary’s. The attention of Catholic ladies is especially called to the “ Perpetual Adoration and Work for Poor Churches.” Is there not in every city at least one pious lady who will take an active interest in the success of this noble society, which provides vestments, linens, etc., for poor churches that would otherwise be destitute of suitable articles for the altar, and also off rs to God a perpetual reparation for the insults and neglects He receives in the Most Adorable Sacrament ? What a consolation to know that night and day, throughout the w’hole year, consecrated souls are praying before the Blessed Sacrament to avert the chastisements of God, and obtain for us countless favors for soul and body!
Next week you shall have some details about the University, but in the mean time let me urge the westernbound travellers to visit Notre Dame and St. Mary’s on their route, and see if they are not much more interesting than my descriptions* The Convent building is not entirely completed according to the plan, but it is very handsome as it stands, and when the church and northern wing are added it will equal the grandest religious establishments in the Old or New World.	IL R. J.
Wheeling, W. Va., August 10.
*A regular line of omnibuses connects the University and Convent with trains on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern R. R., and the Chicago and Lake Huron R. R. at South Bend, and a short railway branch from the Michigan Central route passes through the convent grounds. So there is no difficulty in reaching Notre Dame from these different points.
—Miss Mary Cooney, a member of St. Malachi’s Church, West Side, and a graduate of the year just closed at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana, presented last Monday to the Rt. Rev. Bishop a beautiful Priedieu to be used in the Cathedral. It is the last work of her schoolgirl days and a beautiful thought that her childhood, which began at the Baptismal font, should end in the Sanctuary. May her after life be ever modelled on her childhood days. Would that more of our young people would think of the beauty of the sanctuary and altar.—Cleveland Catholic Universe.
Books and Periodicals.
Houbs with the Sacked Heart. Translated from the French by A. J. R. Cloth, 128 pp., 32mo. New York: P. J. Kenedy, 5 Barclay St.
This is the title-page of a neat little pocket manual containing Prayers at Mass in union with the Sacred Heart of Jesus, Devotions for the Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament, and Vespers for Sunday. Although the book bears no ecclesiastical imprimatur as a guarantee for its contents —which we hope the publishers will have attended to in future editions, as in regard to devotional works it is of more consequence than at first might be supposed—yet the work is one well calculated to inspire and feed devotion to the Sacred Heart
Sadlier’s Elementart History of the United States.
By a Teacher of History. New York : W. H. Sadlier, publisher, 11 Barclay street.
This is a handsomely printed and illustrated book of 136 pages 24mo., and is admirably adapted to supply a want long felt in our elementary classes of history. The plan of the work is excellent It is divided into five sections, each including the data of a century, arranged on the catechetical plan of question and answer, each lesson concluding with a synopsis, in a continued narrative form, of the matter given in the lesson, a chronological review of the most important events, and a geographical table. Names of persons and places difficult to pronounce are explained parenthetically throughout the work. The work concludes with a list of the Presidents of the Republic from Washington to Hayes, giving birtli place, age, and term of office, and a general review of questions.
The style of writing is easy and attractive, pleasing incidents being so freely interspersed that the pupil may be won’ to memorize the more important matter; this, together with the excellent illustrations, is well calculated to make
the book very attractive to children. In, conclusion we need only remark that this little history is just the book to fill a place long neglected, giving, as it does, important facts connected with the Catholic side of American history, hitherto ignored (designedly or otherwise, but in all probability through honest but ill-founded prejudice) in historical text-books. Therefore we cannot too highly commend it to the teachers of Catholic schools.
—The American Catholic Quarterly Review for July has the following table of contents: I, The Protestant Theory of Church Genesis, by Rt. Rev. James O’Connor, D. D.; II, La Salle and the Jesuits, by Rev. Edward Jacket; HI, The Syriac-Ferial Office, by Very Rev. James A. Corcoran, D. D.; IV, Catholic Poetry of the English Language, by M. F. S.; V, The Plantation of Desmond, by Rev. D. * Murphy, S. J.; VI, Sixtus V, by S. B. A. Harper; VII, Socialistic Communism in the United States, by George D. Wolff; VIII, Book Notices. To those who are already readers of the Catholic Quarterly Review, recommendation from us would be superfluous,—they would not be without it, perhaps for double its price; to those who do not take it, we would say, subscribe for it at once. Nearly 800 pages of matter on choice subjects and from writers of acknowledged ability is a literary treat of which everyone having the means should avail himself. The subscription price is $5 per annum. Published by Hardy & Mahony, 502 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.
—The Catholic World for August is bright as the month itself, yet contains articles that are especially timely and strong. Dr. Ewer, the well-known Protestant Episcopal minister, who has recently been discoursing on “ Catholic Truth and Protestant Error,” is the subject of the leading article, which takes up and expounds the Catholic doctrine and Church as opposed to Dr. Ewer’s Catholic Church and doctrine. The, to many who are ignorant or weak-kneed, stumbling-block of Papal Infallibility is dealt with in a singularly clear and forcible manner. “ The Prussian	1
Persecution Exhibited in its Results” takes up the whole of this important question, from the beginning to its present stage, giving the actual statistics of the persecution in the shape of the number of persons banished, imprisoned, fined, etc.; the various methods adopted to supplant Catholicity; the present condition of the German dioceses; the action of the Catholic laity; the result of the persecution as a whole. “ The Religion of Humanity ” touches lightly yet trenchantly the Feuerbach, John Stuart Mill, 0. B. Frothingham school of religionists. “Voltaire and his Panegyrist ” is bitter and keen on the recent attempt in Paris to glorify the drunken philosopher of Ferney. These	!
form the stronger articles of the number. But for summer readers the new serial begun by Miss Kathleen	'
O’Meara will prove the chief attraction. It is entitled “ Pearl,” and opens brilliantly in Paris during the reign of the late Emperor. A happy offset to this is “Parisian Contrasts,” a bright and gossipy letter contrasting the	;
Paris of to-day in all the glare of the Exhibition, with	I
the Paris of 1871, under the sombre light of the siege.	I
“ Mabel Willey’s Lovers ” is a breezy story of farm-life in	I
the West. “The Venerable Mother Mary of the Incarna-	]
tion” is a valuable contribution to Catholic history in	|
Canada. “Breton Legends of the Blessed Virgin” is	-4
quaint and pleasant. The poetry is varied, and of a high order, one poem, “The Created Wisdom,” being from the pen of Aubrey de Vere. The literary criticisms are unusually full, and of the discriminating character for which The Catholic World is noted.
—The Catholic World for September comes to hand just as we are preparing for press. The contents are: I, The Mathematical Harmonies of the Universe; II, Pearl; ITT, The Espousals of Our Lady (Poem); IV, The Bollandist Acta Sanctorum; V, Tombs ot the House of Savoy; VI, A True Lover (Poem); VII, St. Paul on Mars Hill; VIII, One to One (Poem); IX, His Irish Cousins; X, English Statesmen in Undress; XI, The Created Wisdom (Poem); XII, Lope de Vega; XIII, English Tories and Catholic	=
Education in Ireland; XIV, Lac du Saint Sacrement	!
(Poem); XV, The Three Roses; XVI, The English Press	r
and the Pan-Anglican Synod; XVIII, New Publications.	j
The present number of the Catholic World is a standard	x
one both from a literary and popular standpoint. Anyone	'r-y
that does not feel at home with the heavy articles—if any	s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
19
of these can be called “ heavy ” —may turn to “ His Irish Cousins ” and our word for it he will be well repaid. This morceau is worth the cost of a year’s subscription to the Catholic World. If we are not mistaken it is from the scin-tillant pen of the author of “The Little Chapel of Mona-mullin,” “The Home Rule Member,” “Pearl,” etc.
University of Notre Dame,
Founded 1842*	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.’
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Chicago, B. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern. Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to he the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m Peru accommodation ............... 5	00pm. 9 45 a.m
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 30 a.m
A. IL SMITH, A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES. '
Union Depo', West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, Il., and Louisiana, Mo........3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via -
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Hary's Academy, Notrjs Dame P. On Ina.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend aa follows:
GOING EAST.
2	23 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11	05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12	16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m. Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4 a m.
O 12pm, Atlantic Express,- over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40 am; Cleveland, 7 (‘5 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 50and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a tn.
4 50 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chi* caso 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, 1877.
Northward Trains.	No. 5.* Peru and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago &-Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W.,Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		6.10 P. M 8.30 “ 9.25 “■	12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ 10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte*	 “ Michigan City		9.30 P. M. 11.27 “ 12.55 “ 1.40 A. M.		11.02 A. M. 1.07 P. M. 2.35 “ 3.20 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W„ Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Michigan City.. “ LaPorte	 “ Plymouth	 Ar. Peru		9.35 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 11.47 “ 1.40 “	8.05 P. M. 8.55 A. M. 10.33 “ 12.35 “	
Lv. Peru	 “ Kokomo	 “ Indianapolis....	2.00 P. M. 3.05 “ 5.25 “	12.40 A. M. 1.45	“ 4.00 “	6.10 A. M. 7.05	“ 9.35	“
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
INFORMATION WANTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, aged about 18 years.
Was a Minim in 1864 and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, III.; afterwards in St Louis. Mo.
Please address,	’	“ The Scholastic.”
20
THE NOTkRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Bailway
Time Table-Xoy. 11, 1877.
	•Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson.... Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 31 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m H 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
			♦Jackson Express.		
					
	•Mail	•Day Express.		tPacific Express.	^Evening Express.
			5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 •*	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45
Wiles and. South Bend T>i vision.
•GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m.
“ N. Dame— 852 ••	6 38 '•
Ar. Niles—	9 25 “ 715 “
•GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m
“ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Hbnbt C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska,"Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
& the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown Fond du Laci Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negau’ nee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superio* Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its	,
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Weils and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. EL Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsbuigh,..		11.45 p.m.	9.00 a.m.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 AM.
Rochester. ..		12.53 a.m.	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Allifl.nr.ft			3.10 “	1250 p.m.	535 “	11.00 “
Orrville,'			4 .45 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Afanftfirld				7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	... jLeave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest.			9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,			10.40 “	9.00 “	12 25 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,			1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Pl v month			3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,			.7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,			9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth			2.46 am.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,			8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A M.	
Forest				10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,....	... Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline		....Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield.			12.35 “	7.44 “	500 “	6 55 “
Orrville,			2.26 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	915 “
Alliance,			4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	1120 “
Rochester.			6 W “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 pm.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday. •
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. E. MYEES, G. P. & T. A-
A NEW SYSTEM
0F
German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FR. PUSTET, .
52 Barclay Street, NEW YORK, and 204 Vine street, CINCINNATI.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those (adopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved. '
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
.	Price, 85 cents per Dozen*	'
