rUULISIIEJD WEEKLY AT NOTRE HAME.
f mid to th ^nimoio of ibe ^tn Henio.
■	“ UAHOH OMNIA. VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., APRIL 3, 1869. No. 30.
ILeeture on Astronomy.
THE FIRST ASTRONOMER.
[concluded]
The next instrument was a rude representation of the sphere of the heavens, consisting of a brass ring north and south through the poles, called a meridian, because it passes through the sun at mid-day. This was crossed at right angles by another brass ring represen ting the equator, and by a third representing the ecliptic or path of the sun. On the ecliptic ring was marked the position of the sun every day of the year. Afterwards this imperfect invention was improved by making a solid globe with painted circles instead of the rings. When the position of the stars was afterwards indicated, it became the celestial globe we use at present.
Our astronomer, being unable to make any other discoveries in regard to the sun and moon, now turned his attention once more to the stars. Night after night he watched again, hoping that some law of motion would unfold itself to his craze. Nor did he watch long in vain. The large white beautiful evening star attracted his attention in the west. It was the most beautiful star in the firmament, and he would have been pleased to have it keep him company all night. But it set soon after the sun, and soon he thought it began to set a little sooner than usual. This attracted his closer watch. With intense interest he saw it nearer and nearer the sun every evening, until at last it could be seen no more but was lost in the brilliant light of the king of day. Had it fallen on the sun? He fancied so at first, and believed that in that way the sun obtained its light and heat. Here was food for thought. W ould all the stars, one by one, fall into the sun, and the whole heavens become dark?—'He would watch
and see. Month after month he waited to see if the beautiful evening star would return. Meanwhile, in the morning, another large white beautiful star began to appear in the east, just before sunrise. It came farther and farther west every morning for some time, and then returned again to the east morning after morning, until at last it disappeared in the sun as the evening .star had before done. Had this star also gone to feed the light and heat of the sun? But why did it come west so long before it returned east and fell upon the sun ? Here was a new idea. But while he was yet revolving this question, behold, one evening, his lost star again appeared in the west. At first he could hardly believe his eyes, but evening after evening, it came farther and farther from the sun, until, as before, it commenced to return to the sun and finally again was lost in his rays. Thus, several times, did the evening and morning star appear and disappear. At last the idea came into his mind that these two stars were but one which revolved around the sun, and thus appeared sometimes east and sometimes west of that luminary. Subsequent and continued observation confirmed this view, especially the fact that another bright red star was found to act in the same manner. They both revolved about the sun, and thus at one time appeared, as evening and at another as morning stars. The white one he called Venus, or the beautiful, and the red one Mercury, or the burning.
Afterwards, just at midnight, he noticed a fiery red star just over his head. He had seen it before, but never so large, so flaming red as now. By observing it for a few nights he soon perceived that it was moving westward, that is contrary to the yearly and monthly movement of the sun and moon. This movement, however, was after a time, changed for an eastward motion, so that the star in somewhat less than two years made a complete circuit of the heavens from- west to east. The direct, or eastward, motion he could
234	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
explain, as in the case of Venus and Mercury, by supposing that the star swept around both sun and earth; but the westward, or retrograde, motion he could not explain. That was a problem quite beyond the depth of our simple shepherd astronomer, and one that was not satisfactorily solved for thousands of years afterwards by even the wisest heads. He was forced, therefore, to be content with observing this curious westward motion and with giving the star a name, by calling it Mars, from its blood-red color.
Afterward, he observed a fine large yellow star which moved in the same wandering manner, sometimes eastward and sometimes westward; the direct eastward motion, however, prevailing, so that the star went around the heavens in about twelve years. This, from its magnificence he called Jupiter. Another, too, he observed with these same strange unaccountable motions, moving about the heavens in about thirty years. It was of a leaden white color, and he named it after Saturn, the father of Jupiter.
Long did he scan the heavens to find more of these strange, wandering stars; but he found no more. The rest moved regularly from east to west, always preserving their relations to one another, their distances and their appearances, fixed: hence he called them fixed stars, as we do to this day. Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn—these five different from all the heavenly bodies, on account of their peculiar appearances and their wandering movements, he called by their appropriate name of wanderers, in the Greek language planetes, or, as we call them, planets.
Our unknown astronomer had now nearly reached the limit of his discoveries. One thing more however, he could do, and that he did. Since he could discover no more of the laws guiding the mysterious movements of the worlds above them, he would at least group them into classes, to which he gave names, naming also the brightest of the single stars, so that he might refer to them again in conversing with his friends and pupils. These names have been retained to this day, not so much because they are old names, as because no more convenient means of general reference to the heavenly bodies can be devised.
The most important belt of these constellations constitutes the zodiac, so called from the number of animal forms which it contains. This zone extends around the heavens, eight degrees each side of the ecliptic, within which are the paths of the sun, moon, and planets. There are twelve constellations, one for each month of the year, by
means of which we may refer to the position of any of the planets, or of the sun or the moon. The line of the ecliptic is so called because eclipses can only take place when the moon is in this line.
The first eclipse, especially that of the sun, must have filled the hearts of the lookers-on with unknown terror. To see the sun, as it were, slowly passing out of the heavens at midday was an awful sight, which might well portend the utter destruction of universal nature. But as the light again emerged, the succeeding joy must have been followed by curiosity, to know how such an occurrence had come to pass. It was doubtless long before the truth was discovered.
However, as eclipse after eclipse occurred, it was noticed that the eclipse of the sun always happened at new moon and that of the moon at full moon. The conclusion was evident that the eclipse came to pass in consequence of some joint action of both sun and moon.
A few more observations, a little more thinking, and the sublime but very simple truth was evolved, that the eclipse of the sun occurred in consequence of the passage of the moon between the earth and the sun; and the eclipse of the moon was caused by the sun and moon being on exactly opposite sides of the earth. So the mystery was solved, and the terror removed forever, though the curiosity can never cease.
Now stepped in our astronomer for one last effort. He conceived that, knowing the rates of motion of the sun and moon, it would be possible, by calculating when the moon would be in the ecliptic and opposite or between the earth and the sun, to predict the recurrence of an eclipse. This was a sublime determination, one worthy of the highest effort of the human mind. Tracing, in his mind, the place of the moon from month to month, and also tbe place of the sun, he at length found a day several months ahead when the moon would be in the ecliptic, between the earth and the sun. He therefore boldly foretold that on such a day of such a month there would be an eclipse of the sun. What incredulity, what scoffs and jters, he must have encountered when he made this startling announcement ! To predict the very day, several months ahead, when the sun would again grow dark, and the earth would be plunged into midnight! Confident, however, in his calculations, he waited in patience for the day of triumph. It came, the hour drew near, the scoffing people laughed at him, but he looked up with a knowledge
i □ 1

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR	235
greater than theirs. He -was now old and gray; many a long night had he studied the heavens, many a discovery had he made, but this was the crowning moment of his life; his aged body trembled with emotion, but strong in his faith he still looked up. Suddenly a deathlike pallor came over the earth, it grew darker and darker, the people shrieked in terror as the black pall of midnight covered them. But the old man fell on his knees in thankfulness, while tears of joy streamed down his furrowed cheek. His work was done, nobly done; he had nothing more to live for, and he died thanking God for the noble life He had permitted him to live.
Such was the first Astronomer. His name has been lost. It is not even certain whether he was an inhabitant of China, of India, of Egypt> or of Chaldea. But though his name is no longer remembered, his glory is eternal—the first of astronomers, the father of the noblest of the physical sciences: is not that name and title enough ?
Hereafter we shall speak of the labors and discoveries of those whose names have been handed down to us; but great as we shall find the the results of what they have, we can hardly hope for greater than those we have already chronicled. Let us remember that this first Astronomer worked without any but the rudest instrumemts, that his discoveries were made by the unaided powers which any of us possess, and we shall be ready to assign him a very high place among the astronomers of all time.	H.
The Catholic World.
Prof. Lyons has again placed us under obligations, by favoring us with the loan of the April number of this excellent magazine. This is truly an admirable number, and will be read, we are sure, with singular interest by thousands of readers, besides its thousands of subscribers; nor will it fail to attract universal attention in the republic of letters.
The former articles on Galileo-Galilei, Xiinenes, Problems of the Age, etc., etc., have already, as we are informed, created a very great sensation, even among politicians in our national capital. Profound theological learning, historical essays of the highest order, scientific articles full of actuality, translated from the best European Reviews, joined with elegance of style and moderation of tone, place at once the Catholic World at the head of the miscellaneous literature of the day.
When the Catholic World was first started we frankly confess that we had not the slightest faith in its vitality, although we well knew the zeal and energy with which the Rev. Editor is bountifully endowed; but so many of its predecessors had met with a premature death—had died of inanition—that we did not think our catholic people were sufficiently awakened from their too long and positively disgraceful lethargy, and sufficiently moved to the necessity of supporting a first-class catholic periodical. Now, however, we have a firm faith in its permanency: its ten thousand subscribers and the list of subscriptions increasing daily are guarantees of continued success.
During the first year of its existence we considered the Catholic World as certainly holding a very honorable position among its cotemporaries, but nothing more. The year of novitiate being over, a new life was infused into it in the form of original articles: then appeared those splendid essays on the Patriarchate of Constantinople, The Greek Church, The Christian School of Alexandria, The Mediaeval Universities, and Mediaeval Books and Hymns; followed by The Problems of the Age, Physical Science and Christian Revelation, Pantheism, etc., etc. Such an array of brilliant talent, deep learning and sound criticism, forced us to alter our opinion. We then believed the Catholic World to be surpassed by no publication ofthekind with which we were acquainted, and greatly superior to nineteen-twentieths of them. But what shall we say of it now, that it has secured the best and the highest—and nothing but the best and highest—talent of the country? We do not fear to be contradicted when we say it is the leader in the field of general literature and science, embracing, as it does, Theology, Philosophy, History, Physical, Natural and Mathematical Science, Poetry and Romance.
Go on with your noble and highly meritorious work, excellent and much-deserving Father Hecker; go on! “Exulta ut gigas adcurrendam viam /”
To-day, again, we desire to call the attention of the thoughtful readers of The Scholastic Yeab, and especially of the students of our advanced Classes of History, to the first article in this number. It is a brilliant and very solid essay on the “ Fable of Pope Joan.” It is impossible to read it. attentively and not to be convinced of the truth it forcibly establishes, or rather -of the stupendous and stupid error it utterly demolishes. Those who can read French may also find the same subject most ably and thoroughly
236
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
treated in an excellent work of Ch. BerthSlemy entitled “ Erreurs et Mensonges Historiques. ” The work is in the College Library.
There are several other articles in this number of the Catholic World that deserve special notice, such as the Bishops of Rome, the Influence of Locality on the Duration of Life, (Ecumenical Councils, etc.	J. C. C.
A Leiter from Ohio.
We give below, a letter received by one of our students from his little brother who is just learning to write. We would be glad to appoint the writer our Ohio correspondent; but should he not wish to become a regular correspondent, we will thankfully receive any occasional communication he may send us.—(Ed. S. Y.)
------Ohio . March . — . 1869.
My . Dear . Brother .--.
P-------. and. our. little, baby. are. getting, well. —Michael.* had. a. little, mouse, in. his. mouth, running, around, the. garden.—A. Kitten, ran. after him. to. get. it.—It. bit. his. tail. and. jumped, on. his. back. and. the. way. Michael, did. squeal, and. run. around, the. garden.—The. chickens, and. the. duck. ran. as. fast. as. they, could.—The. duck, pulled, the. kitten’s, tail.—the kitten, rolled, on. his. back.—a. hen. tumbled, over, the kitten.—the. kitten, bit. the. duck. and. it. went, quack! quack! And. away. they. all. ran. to. the. stable, yard. and. the. kitten, after, them. and. all. of. them, squealing, as. hard. as. ever. they, could.—it. was. so. funny.—It is. nice, weather. —It. snowed, last, night.—Every, body, sends, you. their, love.
Your. Dear. Brother.
Frank -------
♦ A Shanghai rooster.
w
St. Cecilia Pliilomathean Association.
At the twenty-second and twenty-third regular meetings of this Society, essays were read and declamations and speeches delivered. Among those deserving of special mention for composition were Masters Coppinger and Burdell, and for declamation, Master G. McCartney. Master J. Coppinger’s essay on “ Letter-writing ” was well written, showing that the writer had prepared it with a great deal of care. Master Bur-dell’s, on “ Try, Try again,” proved that the composer had tried more than once at essay writing. Master McCartney’s “Warren’s Address” was well delivered. R. J. McCarthy, Bec. Sec.
CoLLEGE BuiiLETm.
Arrival of Students at Notre Dame.
March 25ih.
Charles Dexter,	Evansville, Ind.
March 30th.
John R. Orff,	Fort Wayne, Ind.
March 31st.
Thomas Harley,	Dowagiac, Mich.
April 1st.
William Taylor,	Chicago, Ill.
April 2d.
James McMurphy,	Erie, Pa.
Joseph F. Cassella,	Louisville, Ky.
-------------
Holy Week at Notre Dame.
From the creation of man until the present day, religion has existed in the world; and from that time until this, ceremony has been inseparably blended with it. This is but natural, for the awe with which man looks up to his God, the reverence with which he addresses Him, is necessarily accompanied by some outward mark of adoration. Hence we find that with every religion, true and false, many external rites were mingled. In the case of the Jewish religion we see that even God Himself designated these ceremonies. This being the case, they could not be useless; and hence the Catholic Church has always made frequent use of them, not only for the purpose of proclaiming faith and love towards God, but also to instil this faith and love in the breasts of others.
Holy Week is the last week of Lent, during which all the great events connected with the Passion of our Lord took place, and, consequently, the ceremonies of the Church are then more numerous and expressive than at any other time.
Palm Sunday.
About nine o’clock the bells rang for Mass; and in a short time the students had taken their places in the church. After the palms had been blessed, Very Rev. Father Granger explained the ceremonies, saying that on this day the Church commemorates the reception of our Lord by the Jews, who with palms in their hands went out to meet Him, singing His praises, and showing Him every mark of honor.
Immediately after the sermon a procession, consisting of the fathers, seminarians and altar-boys,
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
237
was formed, which was to remind us of the procession. of the Jews when Jesus made His entry into Jerusalem.
At Mass, the Passion of our Lord was sung'by three priests, assisted by the choir. This ceremony is a very beautiful one, and could not but have made an impression on those "who understood it. Vespers were sung as usual in the evening.
Mauxdy Thursday.
On this day the Church celebrates the Last Supper and the institution of the Blessed Eucharist. The ceremonies are such as recall most vividly the love of our Lord in giving Himself to us for our daily nourishment. On Wednesday evening many of the students were present at the Tenebrce, which consist in chanting the Matins and Lauds for Thursday. I have heard some remarks in respect to the extinction of the lights during this ceremony. Persons have asked why these candles were put out with so much “ style /” What could be the meaning of this ridiculous ceremony? Well; although a question put in this ungentlemanly way scarcely deserves an answer, I will say that by this extinction of the lights the abandonment of our Lord during His Passion is typified. Our Saviour Himself is represented by the candle which is not extinguished. When it is carried behind the altar His death is denoted, and the noise made at this time is to recall to our minds the noise and confusion that occurred when the great God was crucified by His creatures. On this day only one Mass is said, the Mass of the Holy Eucharist. At it two Hosts are consecrated, one of which is reserved for the day following; because on Good Friday there is no consecration. After Mass a procession was formed and the Sacred Host conveyed to the receptacle prepared for it in the chapel in the basement of the church. To designate the desolation of our Lord and the sorrow of the Church, the altars were stripped of all their ornaments. Immediately after this, Vespers were read. In the afternoon the students assembled to see the Washing of the Feet, which is always performed on Maundy Thursday in commemoration of the washing of the feet of the disciples by our Divine Lord. The water and towels being brought, Father Granger proceeded to wash the feet of twelve of the students. During the ceremony, beautiful anthems were sung by the choir; the burden of these anthems was resumed frequently by the following: Ubi charitas et amor, Deus ibi est Oongregavit nos in unum Christi amor.
After the conclusion of this ceremony all retired in silence.
Good Friday.
On this day eighteen centuries ago, Jesus Christ, the all-powerful God, suffered Himself to be put to death by the hands of the wicked, shed His last drop of blood through love—through love of His executioners. On this day all mankind was redeemed from the chains of sin; and hence the Church celebrates this day with particular fervor. At Notre Dame the ceremonies began about 10 o’clock A. M. After the prophecies and Passion had been sung, prayers were said for all men, Christians as well as pagans. By this it was signified that the merits of Christ’s death are applicable to all.
Holy Saturday.
The Lauds and Matins of this day represent our Lord in the Sepulchre. Before Mass the altar was again adorned with the ornaments of which it had been divested on Maundy Thursday. The new fire and the paschal candle were blessed. Then the prophecies were sung and prayers said for the benefit of those who should wish to be baptized. After the baptismal font had been blessed the Sacrament was administered to Master Eddie D wyer, of C hicago. At Mass all wTas j oy, for then our Saviour was represented as coming from the tomb. The altar was brilliantly illuminated, the bells were rung, and the choir poured forth joyous notes of praise to the Almighty, expressive of the happiness experienced by all. On Holy Saturday the senior catholic students went to confession and prepared for their Easter Communion.
Easter Sunday.
On Easter morning the sun rose ’mid clouds of gold: and, although no one could perceive thatit danced, it almost made us dance for very joy. The soft balmy air reminded us of Spring. The birds made their first appearance, to swell the chorus of praise that was ascending from all nature to the throne of Heaven, proclaiming the joyful tidings that Christ hath arisen. Before breakfast, the senior catholic students went to the chapel in order to receive Holy Communion. The juniors had already made their Easter Communion on the Thursday previous, and consequently the chapel was not crowded as on previous years. High Mass, at 10 A. M., was celebrated with great pomp. Many people came flocking to the church from all parts of the country. Prof. Girac’s 3d Mass was sung. This Mass was so ably criticised last year, and its beauties so

238	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
nicely shown, that I think it is unnecessary and vain for me to attempt to say anything more.
R.
A Presentation,
TO BEV. FATHER COBBY, PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
On the morning of Thursday, April 1st, Rev. Father Corby, President of the University, was waited on by a committee of students from the three departments of the College, and invited to the front portico. At first, Rev. Father Superior thought of April fool, and was about to refuse; but his good nature at last gained the day and he accompanied the committee at the risk of being made the object of a good laugh. Arrived at the portico, he was not a little surprised to see a strange horse dressed out in ribbons, et catera, held by Mr. J. Grieb, and surrounded on all sides by the students and Faculty. Mr. W. A. Walker, of of Malden, West Virginia, then stepped forward, and read in a distinct and earnest tone the following address on behalf of the Senior Students:
Reverend Father Superior:
In behalf of the students of the Senior Department I tender you our most sincere and heartfelt thanks, on the occasion of this outward display of our esteem and affection towards you as our President, for having exercised towards us as students of this excellent University a mild yet rigid jurisdiction. Truly, Reverend Father, we can say of you what an ancient historian said of his hero: “Nec Uli quod rarissimum est, autfacilitas auctoritatem, aut severitas amorem diminuit." For in the enforcement of the necessary rules you have not only secured a proper decorum among the students, but you have also gained from them universal regard and esteem by the kindness you have shown to them both collectively and individually. Although the members of “ Holy Cross ” are not accustomed to accept presents, nevertheless Very Reverend Father Provincial, knowing our motives were to show outwardly to you our good feelings, has kindly consented to depart from the general custom in this particular instance, and has given us permission to present you with this noblest of animals, a horse. As rays of the sun seem to concentrate in a glass of concave surface, so to-day rays of esteem and love from the hearts of all the students concentrate in you, as it were the concave glass. We hope, also, Reverend Father, by our good conduct, to be able to repay
you for all your kindness, and to enable you by our manly actions to say that the students of “The University of Notre Dame du Lac” are perfect models for the students of any University of the kind in the United States. That you, with your horse, may enjoy a long and happy life, is the sincere hope of
The Students of the
Senior Department.
Notre Dame, April 1st, 1869.
At the close of this address, Mr. J. W. Coppinger of Alton, Ill., delivered the following, on behalf of the Junior Department, in a very pleasing style:	z
Dear Reverend Father, we also take part,—
Or present a part rather,—and wish from our heart That whenever he draws you—(the charger of course)
You always may find.him a very good horse.
We hope, unlike others—(we mention no name)— He won’t smash the buggy and make himself lame, Nor cut up any didoes, nor get on his ear, Nor otherwise put you in bodily fear.
We hope on a journey he’ll never prove balky, And instead of Elkhart, stop at old Mishawaka, But always convey you wherever you want, Whether going on business or out for a jaunt.
We believe he’s a good one, his coloris gray;
You can use him for riding, for buggy or sleigh, His pedigree’s famous (’tis certain I am)
As you’ll find by inquiring concerning his dam.
Now, Father, we join with our Senior friends
In all the big words that their eloquence tends; But, believe us, no words elocution employs Can express the good-will of
Your Junior Boys.
Next, Master Ernest Lyons, of New York city, known as the “Little Orator of the Minims,” gave the following, in his usual earnest style, on the part of bis companions:
Dear Rev. Father :
As our big friends, the Juniors and Seniors, seem to fear that you would not know you had a horse, unless they told you, we thought as we had just as good a right to make speeches as they, that we would take advantage of the present opportunity of expressing our good wishes in behalf of the noble charger here presented.
We hope it may possess the best qualities of


THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	239
all the good horses that ever lived, and none of their bad ones.
As you are pretty well acquainted with the evil propensities of this portion of the animal kingdom, it is, we suppose, unnecessary to warn you to be on your guard; for although it may be good, we are told that there is scarcely anything here below entirely faultless. (We beg pardon of the Seniors if we are encroaching on their rights by using bigwords.)
We hope above all things that his nagship is not nervous, for good Brother Jerome seems to be in a perfect fever during our recreations, lest by our loud talk we frighten the horses and prevent them eating and sleeping, and we cannot consent to forego our recreations although we must confess we bear this horse an unusual amount of respect on account of its being your property.
Wishing you, dear Rev. Father, all the pleasure that can be desired from a good horse,
We are, affectionately,
Your Little Minims.
After the addresses, which speak for themselves and explain the whole matter of the presentation, Rev. Father Corby accepted the gift then offered him by the Faculty and students, and responded in his usual brief but impressive style, in substance as follows:
“Respected members of the Faculty, And beloved Students of Notre Dame :
“ This is such a great surprise that I certainly would consider myself the victim of a joke—this being the first of April—did I not have the unmistakable proof of the presence of a magnificently caparisoned horse as the object of your generous donation. This gift is a pledge of friendship and esteem which will ever make me remember the year of 1869 with particular pleasure and honest pride. Such presentations are usually made in testimony of some superior merit; but, unfortunately, I can claim no such quality. I have done nothing to merit such a spontaneous move; it is simply the laudable expression of your good will and generous hearts; I accept, therefore, this splendid gift at your hands, as a proof that the magnanimous spirit which ever characterized the inmates of Notre Dame is not wanting in the memorable year of 1869. I accept it as President of Notre Dame rather than as a thing altogether personal, because it shows that you are particularly pleased with, and love your alma mater, its rules and regulations,—which were administered, as you are pleased to term it, with mild yet rigid jurisdic
tion. May I not say therefore, in the well-known classic phrase: “ Olim hoc meminisse juvdbit.” For my part, this occasion will form one of the brightest spots on the tablets of my memory, as I call from their sweet resting-place the remembrances of the past, concerning cherished friends and happy days. Let me add: as you have done for me to day, so do for your dear parents when you return to their embrace: surprise them by your good deeds, your knowledge, manliness, and virtue —copious draughts of which you may drink, furnished in these halls dedicated to the sacred purpose of training youth to be ornaments of society. Listen, then, to the voice of your alma mater, and you will always be proud of the happy days spent at Notre Dame.
“Accept my sincere thanks, my dear friends, and be assured that I will try more than ever to merit your esteem by fidelity to the work of education to which long since I have consecrated my life.”
When the Rev. President had ended, the assembled throng uttered three hearty cheers, with a “ Long life to Father Corbythe Band struck up one of its liveliest tunes; the horse which had so lately changed masters expressed his entire satisfaction by dancing to the music of the Band, and all went “ merry as a marriage bell.”
After the presentation was over, the Rev. President received the members of the Faculty and the members of the Students’ Committee in the large parlor of the College, where they were hospitably entertained.
The following young gentlemen were members of the committee whose exertions among their fellow-students and the Faculty procured the means of purchasing this beautiful present:
Messrs J. Cunnea, W. P. McClain, T. W. Ewing, J. Grier, D. A. Clarke,' J. Dickinson, W. A. Walker, A. W. Arrington, J. O’Reilly, J. Edwards, M. Ryan, D. Tighe, J. Coppinger, J. Dooley, C. Marantette, F. Ingersoll.
A Barmecide Feast.—A gross violation of the rites of hospitality having been perpetrated by a certain Literary Society, which shall be nameless, under the shade of the First of April, it has been decided that the only reparation that they can make is “ oysters all round ” for the same crowd. Stomachic jokes are “no joke.”	S.
The fine horse presented to Rev. Father Corby has been named Donatus.
240
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
First of April.—The first of April passed off this year with unusual quiet. The weather was exceedingly disagreeable during the whole day, and this no doubt interfered greatly with the fun generally enjoyed on April fool’s day. A few tricks were played on the “unsuspecting.” We heard of some receiveing dispatches from honest correspondents, and “ the miscreants ” used the Telegram’s envelope to deceive genuine people. We had the pleasure of receiving some callers who “ didn’t think of it.” As a general thing, all the jokes were well meant and occasioned the laughter. The best were gotten up at little expense and redounded greatly to the credit of the perpetrators. Others were very tame and practised on such as are willing at all times to be fooled. Others, yet, showed a great want of tact and good taste in the actors, who, besides having the satisfaction of “fooling” many, had the consolation of making asses of themselves.
St, Edward’s Literary Society.
Tuesday evening, March 23, the above association held its regular session, at which the question, whether “ Was it the love of country, or ambition, that caused Napoleon to pursue the course he did,” was debated. The'afilrmative was sustained by Messrs. - T. Ewing and D. Clark, and the negative, by Messrs E.Fitzharris and J. Shannahan. The life of Napoleon was reviewed in a brief manner, and from the weights of the arguments advanced by the negative, the decision was given in its favor.
Messrs L. B. Logan and S. Ryan then delivered declamations, which were excellent.	Reporter,
-------**—:-----
Star of the West Base-baH Club.
Rev. Mr. Editor:—Will you please insert a few lines for us in your excellent paper? Ata meeting of the club, held on the 21st of last February, a new schedule of officers was chosen, consisting of the following:
Director—Brother Florentins.
President—Frank Ingersoll.
Vice-President—John Broderick.
Secretary—David J. Wile.
Treasurer—Charles Marantette.
Censor—Austin Cabel.
Field Captain 1st Nine—Michael Branock.
Field Captain 2d. Nine—James Dooley.
During last session the club was in excellent order, and succeeded. by their fine play, in winning laurels of championship from their Senior brethren. The financial condition of the club was in good standing; and to make a long matter short, it was and is the best organized club around, a fact conceded by all hence it is no boast on our part.
At the last regular meeting, held March 21st., Mr. James Ryan was unanimously elected an honorary member, and a committee ordered tonnform him: This was on account of his returning to his home in Cincinnati, and of-lus. having been a leading member of the club.
It is greatly to be regretted that one who had so nobly dis-
tinguished himself among its here, should have been called away before his just dues could have been paid him: “Honor to whom honoris due.” We wish Mr. Ryan a happy passage on the broad sea of life.
Yon will hear from us anon, Mr. Editor, and no bad report shall disgrace us.	Yours truly, . .
Baser allibt.
liase-Ball.
Quite an exciting little match game was played between the Second Nine of the Excelsior B. B. C. and the First Nine of the Young America B. B. C. Although the Young Americans were quite inferior to their opponents in size, still they did not prove so in ball-playing as the score appended will show:
Young America. .	O		Excelsior	o	B
Foot, c		3	4	Rvan, c		3	2
Haves, p		3	4	Cressner, p 		4	0
R. Hutchings, 3. b		2	4	Johnson, 3 b.. .	2	1
Thomson, 1. b. 		o	4	Ilannaher, 1 b....	5	o
Mahonv, 2. b		2	4	McHugh, 2. b. ...	3	1
Fletcher, s. b 		4	2	Wellington, r s.. .	o	2
C. Hutchings, c. L		2	5	Combs, s. f.		3	2
Dngdal, 1.f.			....	3	4	Lnffertv L f . .	2	o
Hug, r. f.		3	3	Arrington,r. f....	3	0
Total,....................24	34 Total,.................27	8
In the ninth inning the Excelsior gave up before they had put their opponents out, thereby forfeiting nine scores. The catching of Hayes and Thomson, of the Young Americans, and of Ryan and McHugh, of the Excelsior, also the batting of Hayes, Mahony, Cressner and Ryan, were considered the best. From what we saw we will not be surprised if we hear some day of the First Nine (Excelsior) meeting the same misfortune.	An Eye-Witness.
A Cockney in Parliment was reading a badly written document, when, after vainly trying to decipher an obscure letter, turned to his nearest co-legislator, and asked, “Is that a hem or a hen ?” “ Oh,” replied his neighbor, “call it a hen and move it lay upon the table.”
M. §. & K. I. RAILROAD.
Going East :
Leave South Bend, 8:35 a. m. “	“	11:10 a.	m.
“	“	8:06 p.	m.
“	“	12:19 a.	m.
Arrive at Toledo, 4:26 p. m.
“	“	5:00	p.	m.
“	“	1:55	a.	m.
“	“	6:15	a.	m.
Going West :
Leave South Bend, 6:12 a. m. I Arrive at Chicago, 10:00 a.m “	“	6:40 p. m.	|	“	“	10:00 p. m‘
“	“	2:42 a. m.	I	“	“	6:30 p.	m.
“	“	4:10 a. m.	|	“	Laporte,	5:48 a.	.m