i
Notre Dame Scholastic.
L	-
I>Isce quasi semper vloturtis; vlve quasi eras moritums. / - - • »
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 3, 1877.	Number 10.
To an Early Field-Flower.
Little flower, why so early ?
See, the winter scarce has gone,— And beneath the cold gray shadows, Driven snow yet lingers on.
Has some wild and wayward sunbeam Falsely lured thee with his love ?
Ah, thy golden petals tell me,—	’
Whisper that a star above,
Midst the glory of the heavens,	•
Kissed thee kindly with his rays—
Then in trust, in joy and beauty, Up thou glanc’d and fix’d thy gaze.
Then, I’m sorry I have plucked thee, Yet perhaps ’twas for the best;
Fiercely would the wild winds toss thee,-Now thour’t safe upon my breast.
There, I see thou dost reproach me, And dcst say in language mild, I should trust my fellow-brothers, As thou dost the whirlwinds wild.
Well, I’ll try to—hut I’m thinking, How, like thee, I might have been Resting on my Father’s bosom, Safe from sorrow and from sin.
April, 1877.	 .	E. J. M.
The Papacy.
The word Pope is derived from the latin Papa, which is of uncertain origin, but is by some supposed to have been formed from the union of the first syllables of the two words Pater Patrum, meaning Father of Fathers. It is now used among the faithful to designate only the successor of Saint Peter, because he is the Father of all the other Fathers, that is, Bishops and priests of the Church, and therefore in religious matters the visible head of the Christian people.
There have been 262 Popes in legitimate succession from Peter, who was chosen by our Lord Himself, to Pius the Ninth, now reigning (and whom may God long preserve), who was elected by the Cardinals of the Holy Roman Church on the 17th of June, in the year 1846. This series of Pontiffs is called the Papacy; and there has never been a line of princes so lengthy, so unbroken, so singular for its vicissitudes, so glorious for its victories, so venerable for its piety, so illustrious for its learning, so famous for great and noble deeds; neither has there ever been another that so frequently and so ipuch against all human
expectations has survived the deadliest conflicts. The Papacy must surely be the subject of a special providence of God. Let us look back eighteen hundred and fifty years. There stands Rome—Rome, the mighty Rome, the Queen of all nations—Rome, to whom all peoples bowed in subjection or enforced alliance. How many monarchs have entered that imperial city with the pomp and the parade of long triumphal processions! with them were the laureled fasces, the golden eagles, the shouting legions, and notes of martial music; with them came royal captives, and before them were carried the trophies of battle and the richest spoils of conquest: but all soon vanished from the scene of time; their marble palaces and porticos are now crumbled to decay, and their memory has died away like a sound. Q how different the destiny of St. Peter and his successors! One day in the 42d year of the reign of the • haughty Claudius, who was then Emperor, there entered Rome by the Ostian gate a poor man carrying a rugged staff in his hand; alone and afoot, covered with dust and travel-worn, he soon mingled with the seething crowd, one of the least apparently of the subjects of the Emperor. He pssed along unrecognized, unhonored, unobserved; but he came to dethrone the devil from the hearts of men, and plant the Cross above the diadem of Caesar. He was mightier than Caesar, for from being a simple fisherman of Galilee he was become the Prince of the Apostles, and bore in his lowly person the Vicarship of Christ and the power of those God-given keys which can bind and loose whatsoever both in heaven and on earth. He took possession of Rome, and made it the seat of a spiritual kingdom whose limits are the bounds of the earth, whose duration is eternity.
In studying the fortunes of the Papacy, we find five epochs distinctly marked, each with its trials, and four with their final and decisive triumphs; nor can we doubt but in the fifth, which is now revealed, and in any others that may follow, the Popes will sooner or later raise their heads above their enemies.
Let us briefly review these epochs, as they stand out from the page of history. First there is the Age of Martyrs, during which almost every one of the Popes was put to death for the Faith, in the bloody persecutions of the Roman Emperors. It lasted for three hundred years, and came to an end only with the conversion of Constantine the Great. This Emperor soon afterwards removed the scat of government to Byzantium, which thenceforth was called the New Rome, and named Constantinople, after its second founder. Rome—old Rome—Rome the Eternal City, was left to the Popes: thus early did it appear that the dread and awful majesty of religion, expressed as it can only be in the person of the Pope, overshadows the ambition of the civil Power and dwindles the throne of the
146
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Cassars. We should not for an instant doubt that Rome was abandoned to the Popes through a mysterious design of God, in order that in one part of the world, at least, the Christian law should ever be supreme, the Head of the Church be free from all force or restraint in the exercise of His sublime prerogatives, and the Cross of Christ be raised high above the symbol of any earthly sovereign. This terrestrial quasi-independence of the Popes of that day was the beginning of that Temporal Power of which we have heard so much in these times, and of which the present Pope has been so unjustly, so sacrilegiously, so brutally and faithlessly deprived by crowned revolution under King Victor Emmanuel, the self-proclaimed King of Italy; and yet this Temporal Power is absolutely necessary, in the present state of the world, for the free and convenient discharge of the duties which devolve upon the Roman Pontiff.
Next came the Age of the Barbarians. Then the Popes had to meet and subdue with the persuasive weapons of sanctity and wisdom the hordes of countless savages who issued forth from North and East to execute the Divine judgments against the magnificent city of Rome, which had been for so many centuries the chief seat of idolatry and the very heart of pagan pride. When their work was done, the sceptre indeed had passed away from Rome, the authority of the Caesars was forever broken; but although she ceased to exercise coercive dominion over the nations of the earth, Rome still retained the mightier influence of Religion.
Anarchy shook the world; and a new order of things arose out of the confusion—new dynasties, new laws, new languages, new titles; and amidst them all emerged the Christian Church at whose portals stool the Pope, undaunted and erect, the representative of the living God, and the living link that joined the ancient to the modern world. If the Papacy had been a human institution it must certainly have been buried beneath these successive barbaric inundations; but being a Divine institution, whose deep foundations rested upon the Rock of Ages, it remained unshaken, and when the waters abated it alone appeared unchanged amidst the ruins of the Roman Empire. The heathen world was gone, and now began the formation of Christendom, which was effected in the year 803, when on Christmis Day of that memorable year Charlemagne piously received the imperial crown from the hands of Saint Leo the Third, the 11th successor of Saint Peter. Never before or since was there a coronation so august; never before or since is there such an example of the mutability of human events. At this period began the Middle Ages, and with them the third epoch in the Heaven-directed fate of the Papacy. Then the Popes, having reconstituted society and civil government, were not only the acknowledged heads of the Church but also the undisputed superiors of Christendom or the union of all Christian nations under the gaurdianship of the Roman Pontiffs. This epoch lasted until the beginning of the 16th century, when took place that politico-religious revolt known as the Reformation, which was a defection from the Church of nearly one half of her members in Europe, who took the name of Protestants because they protested against and rejected certain dogmas of faith and practices of piety which the Popes taught to the faithful, although all of the former and all of the essential parts of the latter were from the earliest times heard and used in the Church of God. This was the epoch of Heresy'. It continued down to the end of the
last century, when the horrible French Revolution, making war upon the altar and the throne, inaugurated the era of what are called Modern Ideas, which, under the name of Liberalism, mean the absolute power of the State —no matter what its form of government—over the Church, no matter how carefully she adhere to her legitimate authority over the souls of men. Every Government in Europe and America is infected in a greater or less degree with this virus of Liberalism, the ultimate effect of which-will necessarily be (if God allow it to work out its iniqui-, tous results) a speedy return to paganism and a revival of. the spirit of active persecution. The last, as was the first, age of the Church will doubtless be an age of martyrs— just as our Blessed Lord, of whom she is the Spouse, and the phases of whose life she portrays in her own most sacred person, was sought to death as an Infant by Herod, and crucified when a Man by Pontius Pilate. This 5th epoch is the era of Apostasy. At other times, the Church in her sore distress found some champions to defend her rights, but now there is not a single State that upholds them. She is deserted by all the rulers of the earth: but she can do without them, but woe to those who have betrayed their trust and turned against their mistress and their mother. Our perfect reliance is on God, whose word shall never pass away.
Industry.
By industry is meant an habitual and serious application of mind, as also diligence in any employment either bodily or mental, joined with a steady and vigorous exercise of the active powers in prosecution of any specific object or end that is honest, reasonable and useful, so that thereby some considerable good may be attained. The duty of labor has been imposed on man ever since his fall, and therefore it is incumbent on each and everyone of us to perform well those works, whatever they may be, that are particular or special to us according to our position in life. It is the industrious man, it is the industrious nation that is pleasing to God. Success in every art and in every station in life, whatever may be the natural talent, is always the reward of industry. • The humble peasant, with limited education, the great monarch with all his wealth, pomp and attendants, the daring man that stands where cannons roar amid the smoke of battle, the student and meek clergyman-all must be zealous, energetic and industrious if they wish to attain an end—anything of importance.
Industry is a duty required of all, but more especially of youth; for no matter with what abilities we are endowed they profit us nothing if we want energy in exerting them, and all directions given by teachers will be unavailing if we do not put them into practice. Habits of industry should be practiced in youth, for at this time the motives to it are stronger, from ambition, duty, and all the bright prospects which the beginning of life presents. There is nothing more against the true pleasure and enjoyment of life than that of passing our precious time in a state of indolence, as “ he who is a stranger to industry may possess, but he cannot enjoy.” The youth of our large cities who, by passing away their time, live in idleness, will at manhood find themselves without education or sufficient knowledge to be employed in any respectable business. When young we may not be fully able to realize the value of time, and how important it is to be serious in whatever we undertake to accomplish; for surely if we do not while
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
147
young make good use of our time, we will repent of it sooner or later. Let us not for a moment imagine that any affluence of fortune or any elevation of rank will exempt us from being industrious; it is the law of our being, of reason, and of God. Let us remember that the years which pass over our heads leave permanent memorials behind them, and that these memorials are in the memory of One who never forgets, and with whom there is no past or future; that at the last day they will bear testimony either for or against us when called to give a strict account of our lives. It is. then, our duty as good Christians to be persevering, to be industrious, for an industrious man is not only a credit, but also an ornament to society. Let us follow a man of this stamp for a few moments and see how he acts: he never falters, nor succumbs to difficulties, but calmly removes them from his path and glides quietly on to the accomplishment of the end in view. Poverty, so discouraging to the idle, proves but an incentive to the industrious. The lack of genius (we mean uncommon intellectual power) serves but to make such men redouble their efforts to supply that which nature, to a certain degree, has denied them. Go where you will, look where you will, you will find that the industrious man is the prominent man Look but for a moment at the “ Hill of Science,” and you will see its surrounding valleys and vales covered by a multitude of people of all ranks and conditions aspiring to its summit, on which is placed the “ Temple of Truth,” whose 'majestic pillars cast a shadow of benign influence over the face of the earth, and continually spur on the young, the fair, and the gay to the acquisition of knowledge. Out of this multitude a few may be distinguished from the rest by their steady and ever onward course, diligently removing each and every obstacle that may be in their path; climbing the steep and not unfrequently rugged ascents; never deviating or stopping to listen to the many evil seducers that constantly harass them and endeavor to draw them away from the pursuit of knowledge and truth. But in spite of all this they persevere, and in due time arrive at their destination, the summit of the “ Hill of Science ”; and now those who at first derided their slow' and toilsome progress are obliged to look up to them in silent admiration and astonishment. Those who have accomplished the end proposed are the industrious and the persevering, who do not spend their time in idleness or folly, but make good use of it in accordance with the will of God. Whereas, on the other hand, those who -waste their time, who are carried about by every breeze, who laugh at their neighbor because of his slow but sure progress in the path of science, who stand to listen to the warbling of pleasure, who by the force of an eccentric and flighty mind are forced into devious ways and untried paths, losing ground at every step ; those, no matter what their talent may be, no matter what their genius may be, will be outstripped by their industrious companions. Hence it is that even in the lower walks of life we can easily distinguish the man that is industrious from the man that is not. Take, for instance, the industrious farmer: five o’clock in the morning does not find him in the arms of Morpheus, and six is sure to find him at his work, no matter what that work may be. He prospers, and prosperity follows in his train. But on the other hand, the farmer that is not industrious, what does he do? He is a burden to himself. The winds of the hills can carry everything belonging to him to the furthest ends of the earth and it does not cost him a thought. He rises late in the morning, he goes to bed late at night, his dwelling-house and
out-houses are a spectacle to the passer-by; his lands are in the same condition, because of his neglect and slothfulness.
Let those who wish to be enterprising and prosperous men learn to be industrious, as industry begets wealth and peace, happiness and contentment, if accompanied by virtue. Let them make good use of every moment as it passes, for time is a sacred trust committed to us by God, of which we are the depositary. A part of it is allotted for this world’s concerns and a part for those things pertaining to the world to come. Let each of these occupy that space which properly belongs to it. Let not hours of recreation and pleasure interfere with those in which are discharged the common duties of life; and let not what may be called worldly affairs encroach upon the time due to devotion. If we delay till to morrow what ought to be done to-day we burden to-morrow with what does not belong to it; we overload the wheels of time and prevent it from carrying us along smoothly. Manhood is not unfrequently disgraced by the consequences of neglected youth. Old age oppressed is bowed down with cares that properly belong to a former period of life, and a premature grave is the natural result of time misspent in our earlier days. The premises which from the foregoing may be legitimately drawn is that if the moral and intellectual training of a youth be neglected, the foundation of his manhood is never built, and therefore when he arrives at man’s estate he has nothing to lean upon for support, and consequently will easily fall either by following his own evil inclinations or by being a tool in the hands of some crafty individual that very easily accomplishes his ruin. Again, as the employment, no matter what kind it may be, which by the common consent of mankind forms the basis of prosperity is neglected and unperformed by a youth, he must on arriving at manhood strive to make up in some way for these follies, and instead of going on smoothly and calmly, laying up those things which are necessary for the maintenance of old age, he is obliged from necessity jto become young again, as it were, and build in some way or other a foundation upon which he may stand for the remainder of his life. This foundation, of course, is not very solid, and hence it is that so many are badly off in their later years, and in place of, as we have already said, being prosperous, they are what we may call the opposite.
Idleness is the root of every evil; it prevents man from developing the natural faculties of the mind, thereby prohibiting him from fulfilling the end for which he was created; it perverts the judgment, and subjects reason to vicious affections; it undermines society itself, and carries anarchy, confusion, and poverty into the very heart of that government and country which we as citizens of the Republic are bound not only to uphold but also to do what we can for the promotion of its prosperity and welfare, and thereby promote that cause for which our grandsires fought and bled. This is the duty of every citizen. How far it is faithfully performed can be very easily seen. The intelligence of a people may be said to be the security of a nation, and industry is the security of this intelligence, which may again be termed the bulwark or rampart on which the other deficiencies, whatever their nature maybe, can have no effect. When the people of any country have sufficient understanding to distinguish truth from falsehood, and to adapt the proper means to the end which they may have in view; sufficient judgment to judge rightly and wisely what they ought to judge; and wl^n they are distinguished for prompt decision of character,
$
<1
148
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
invincible determination to adhere to whatever may appear proper, right and just; and inflexible resolution in carrying out whatever may be determined by the mind, either for future contingencies or for the events that have passed or are now transpiring, then the only requisites are industry and perseverance. So that when at the last day they are called to give an account of their stewardship here below, it will be pleasing to them to look back and see that they have done well their duty, that they have acted well their part. For, as Pope says,
“------There all the honor lies.”
C. C.
Painting.
Painting is that art of design which imitates objects by coloring on a uniform surface. Painting as compared to sculpture is more extensive in the range of subjects of which it is capable of treating, and more various in the modes in which it affords pleasure by such representations. Those subjects which require but few accessories and which are sufficiently defined in outward form without color, are well fitted for sculpture, and their accessories, must be such as are in reach of the chisel. For instance the sculptor wishes to represent a human form: he cannot give to it that natural appearance and that beauty which the brush of the skilful painter gives it; he can only give us the bare outline and nothing more. The painter not only delineates the form, but gives light and shade and color, while the sculptor pleases only by the beauty of form.
Painting is supposed to have originated in Egypt. In its infancy it consisted in painting statues and other figures, and like all other arts or sciences was at first of a rough kind, the coloring being free from shadow, and consisting of mere local tints. Many paintings were executed on the walls of the tombs of the Egyptians, representing different subjects, such as battles, triumphs, and scenes of domestic life. There are several specimens of these first paintings in the British Museum. Homer makes mention of garments woven with figures, the coloring of ships, and the coloring of ivory.	•
Some writers ascribe the origin of the art to Corinth or Sicyon. Cleanthcs of Corinth is said to have made the first outline; Ardices, of the same city, and Telephanes of Sicyon introduced into the outlines other lines; Cleo-phantus colored them with a single color, and thus became the first monochromata.
The legend of Cleophantus having been brought into Italy by Demaratus from Corinth about the year 657 B. C. probably points to the connection of Grecian and Italian art, and this is, furthermore, proved by the number of vases on which are illustrations of Greek stories and inscriptions now found in Italy. There are very curious paintings, worthy of mention, on the walls of the Etruscan tombs. Pliny speaks of ancient works existing in his time in a temple at Ardea, and at Ctere and Lanuvium.
Painting advanced greatly in Greece from the year 580 to 450 B. C. There are some historical pictures of very early date mentioned, one of Bularchus, who lived in the year 715 B. C. The first perspective picture is ascribed to Cimon of Cleon®, and is called a “Catagrapa,” that is, figures to be looked at obliquely from above and below. The peculiarities of paintings of that period are best studied from the vases of those times.
The first Grecian painter of note is Polygnotus of Thaos, who lived in the year 463 B. C. and was the founder of the Athenian school. Aristotle calls him “successful in the expression of character.” Pliny speaks of him as having abandoned the old stiffness and of giving movement to the features—“Instituit os adaperire, dentes ostendere, vultum ab antiquo vigore variare.” Apollodorus investigated the principles of light and shade in the year 404 B. C.
From the Athenian school sprung the Ionian, in which illusion seems to have been more aimed at, as may be inferred from the story of the grapes and linen of Parrhasius. He is celebrated for his roundness of figure and exquisite form and expression. He was overcome by his contemporary, Timanthes, in one of the contests be. tween painters which were very common in Greece and said to have been instituted at Delphi. Another school arose at Sicyon, in which the most celebrated were Eu-phranor of Corinth, Pausias of Sicyon, and Pamphilius of Amphipolis. Euphranor is also classed among the great sculptors of that age, being very proficient in that art. Each of these excelled in a particular part of the art—one in the shades, another in expression. The ancients possessed their painters of low and domestic subjects, and Pliny speaks of their rhyparographi, of whom Calades and Antiphilus were members. Rome received many of her finest pictures from the sack of the city of Corinth by Mummius, in the year 146 B. C., and the first foreign picture publicly shown at Rome dates at this time. From the ' accounts handed down, it seems the victors did not at that time fully appreciate the real worth of the paintings. Many great artists, however, are mentioned at a later period in Rome, of whom Laudius, in the time of Augustus, -painted different scenes on the walls of rooms, such as may be seen on the walls in the ruins of Pompeii and in the ruins of Nero’s'palace. In the time of Caesar a school of some eminence existed at Cyzicus. The forced bloom of art which characterizes the age of Hadrian would seem to imply a momentary revival of painting.
We will now say something of the materials and general qualities of ancient painting. The painting of ancient Greece remained dependent on architecture longer than did sculpture, and it seems always to have been strongly influenced by the latter art. Thus the composition of ancient pictures was very simple, and resembled the order of a bass-relief. A very good instance of this is the well-known Aldobrandini marriage. “Spatiis distinguuut ne umbrae in corpora cadant.” (Quintilian, Inst. viii). The most remarkable of these is perhaps the complicated and picturesque Bittie of Isus, found at Pompeii. But the few pictures which have survived the ravages of time can scarcely give us a very good idea of ancient painting.
The ancients had only four colors down to the time of Apelles. They were white, red, yellow, and blacks, probably including blues. The early Christians appear to have abstained from the use of paintings and from the practice of the art, being circumscribed and too closely confined by the heathens. Very little of Christian art can be found before the time of Constantine, that is when the new religion was not only tolerated but became the superior of paganism, and could therefore make use of what had before been denied it.
The art of painting did not flourish to any great extent until the fifteenth century, when a new impulse was given to it in Florence. The school of Florence produced some very fine masters for the time, of whom Filipo Lippi
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	149
painted, besides many small pictures, the frescoes in the choir of the Cathedral of Prato. Many other painters of note appeared during this century, but in the sixteenth there appeared one of the greatest that has ever adorned the list of painters, Raphael Sanzio. He was born in the year 1483, in the city of Urbino. He was the son of Giovanni Sanzio, a painter. No master has ever rivalled the tenderness of his female forms, nor surpassed the power shown in his larger works. Raphael lived only thirtyseven years, but it is remarkable how many grand works he produced in this short lifetime. From the school of Raphael came some of the finest artists, of whom may be mentioned Giulio Pippi, Francesco Primaticio and Giovanni da Udine, who was Raphael’s assistant in his principal works. Finally among the pupils of Raphael may be reckoned the Netherlander Michael Coxis, who painted some very fine pictures. He was one of Raphael’s pupils, and endeavored to imitate his master in some of his best works.
The Roman school had cultivated the beauty of form and composition, Coreggio perfected chiaroscuro, but it was in Athens that coloring attained its highest pitch. It was a characteristic of the Athenian school from an early period to have brilliant local tints. Giorgione was the principal artist of the Athenian school; he was very fond of a steep glow of mellow light, and those full forms of Venetian beauty which hold the middle place between the clumsiness of the Flemmings and more slender outlines of the Italian schools. The most eminent of Giorgione’s pupils was Sebastian del Piombo, who was born in the year 1485 and died in 1547. He was very fond of historical paintings; the most successful of his works is the Raising of Lazarus. He combined the design of Michael Angelo and the Venetian color. We have now arrived at the end of the fifteenth century, when from the schools of Ghirlandaio, of Perugino, and Bellini, came a galaxy of the most illustrious artists that ever lived—Michael Angelo, Leornardo da Vinci, Giorgone, Titian, and Raphael, of whom I have spoken before. I think it not out of place to say a few words on these men with reference to the general history of the art. Leonardo da Vinci was born in the year 1452, and died the year before Raphael, 1519. In the eagerness with which Ke explored the anatomical and scientific ground work of his art he anticipated Michael Angelo, as he rivalled him in the varied application of his genius. It is in Leonardo we first find roundness of figure and greater breadth and simplicity in the masses of light and shade. Michael Angelo Buonarotti was born in 1474 and died in 1563. He was at once painter, sculptor, architect, poet, and musician. He was educated in the school of Ghirlandaio, and during a course of twelve years’ study he attained a thorough knowledge of the human form. The first work which attracted any great notice of him as a painter was the cartoon of the war of Pisa, executed in rivalry with Leonardo. He has left some very fine frescoes in the Sistine Chapel, and simple grandeur characterizes his prophets and sibyls. Some of the ceiling frescoes do not possess so much merit; but in general the work is such as could only come from the hand of a painter and architect. Michael Angelo executed very few cabinet pictures—perhaps only one or two. The best memorials of Titian are perhaps those now in England in the National, Bridgewater, and Fitzwilliam Galleries (at Cambridge). The brilliancy of his high lights, and the ruddy transparency of the skin in his flesh tints are wonderful. He executed mostly in oil, instead of frescoes, as may be seen
from his compositions at Venice. He had many proficient pupils also, but none to compare with their master.
We have now arrived at the time when art began to decline. Venice seems to have been an exception; but elsewhere art was on the decline. Many endeavored to imitate Michael Angelo, but their pictures were exaggerated in anatomical display, and hard opaque colors fire the characteristic of these artists. The so called Reformation at the end of the sixteenth century, which somewhat checked the progressive energies of the Roman Church, was in same measure hurtful to the arts also. In time, however, the Jesuits fast recovered the ground lost during the Reformation, and Carracci revived to some extent the art of painting. The Spanish Netherlands, rescued from Protestantism by Don John of Austria and the Prince of Parma, witnessed, in the commencement of the seventeenth century, also a revival of painting more striking than that of Carracci. Among some of the principal artists of this time may be mentioned Peter Paul Rubens and P. Veronese, who studied particularly the works of Titian. Many minor schools have existed since then, as the German, French, and English schools, but they have produced no works that can in any way compare with those of Raphael, Michael Angelo, Ti=-tian, and Leonardo da Vinci. Nevertheless there ai'e some very fine painters at the present day.
The art of painting has done much for religion and civilization, of which my space at present forbids me to speak. In former times,—before the discovery of the art of printing,^-when few could read and books were exceedingly scarce, and altogether beyond the reach of the poorer and even the middling classes, the walls and ceilings of the churches had portrayed upon them in beautiful colors the great mysteries of Redemption, sketches of the heroes of Christianity, important events from their lives, etc., thus holding up for imitation the example of those Who had gone before and inciting others to emulate them in deeds of virtue. Thus did painting portray the glorious deeds of the past as in a book, open to everyone and capable of being read by the illiterate as well as by the learned.
L. E.
Scientific Notes.
—Forest and Stream notes the discovery of a puff-ball at Ferrisburg, Vt., which measured fifty-eight inches in circumference, and weighed twenty-two pounds.
—An international Congress of Botany and Horticulture will be held at Paris during the International Exposition, beginning Aug. 16th, 1878, and continuing a week.
—The public places of Paris are adorned with 104,900 shade trees; and the care of these, and of the shrubbery and seats in the boulevards and gardens of the city, costs an annual sum of nearly $400,000.
—The scientific survey of Western Palestine, by a party of English explorers under Lieut. Kitchener, has been completed. The laborious work has occupied five years, and there now remains but to work out the map of Palestine.
—Dr. F. A. Forrel, of Geneva, proposes the application of natural selection for healing certain diseases of silkworms, and also for rendering the European species of vines proof against the attacks of Phylloxera. Experiments of the kind have been partially tried with silkworms, and with success so far as they were pursued.
—Prof. Piazza Smith, Astronomer-Royal for Scotland, calculates, from the weather-observations computed at the Observatory of Edinburgh during the last thirty-nine years, that a wave of extreme cold will strike the earth about the close of the present year. The next visitation of extreme heat, he concludes, may be looked for in 1879.
150	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Prof. Wirchow of Berlin, as the result of a series of observations upon 2,114,153 German children, finds that in northern Germany children with light hair, blue eyes, and fair skins are far the most numerous, while the brunette type preponderates in southern Germany, attaining its maximum at the southwestern and southeastern portions.
—How and where prairie dogs in their villages, far away from rivers, get 'water, was not found out until recently when Mr. F. Mercer, a frontiers man of experience, learned by observation that the dogs dig their own wells. Each village has one, with a concealed opening. He knows of one 200 feet deep, with a circular path or staircase leading down to the water.
—The geological survey of Brazil, under the direction of Prof. C. T. Hartl, has resulted thus far in the discovery within the Empire of the Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous, Triassic, Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Post-Tertiary formations. A. large number of fossils from these different formations have been secured. The existence of the Tertiary formation in Brazil has not yet been definitely determined.	.
—The white whale which was lately sent from America to the Westminster Aquarium, in London, died of inflammation of the lungs the third day after its arrival. During its journey of twelve days it was without food, and grew much emaciated; but it regained flesh rapidly on a diet of eels. It was placed in a tank (fifty feet by twenty-five) of fresh water, but, although thriving in appearance, it survived only three days. The specimen measured nine feet and six inches in length.
—A writer in Nature suggests that the immediate source of attraction that flowers have for the birds which visit them, lies in the insects sipping nectar in their cups, and not so much, as has been supposed, in the nectar itself. It is the habit of the sun-birds and flower-pickers to hover a few inches in front of a flower, as though to discover if any insect-prey are within before they thrust their bills into the corolla. And often they depart without touching the flower, or having, apparently, satisfied themselves that no insects were to be had by dipping into it.
—The society formed in France a year or two ago for the purpose of surveying for a canal to unite the Atlantic and Pacific by the Darien route, is making progress in its operations. Its explorers are busily at work in the United States of Colombia, under the direction of Lieut. Wyse, w’ho reports his confidence that an interoceanic canal by way of Colombia will soon be an accomplished fact. He specially favors the Colombian route, because it will not require such expensive locks as the Nicaragua route, while the lowest gradients and the narrowest isthmuses are also found in Colombia.
Art, Music and Literature.
h
t;
•I
J 'f
’I 4
—The new opera, “ Atahualpa,” by Signor Pasta, lias utterly failed at the Milan Dal Verme.
—A translation of “Hamlet” into Portuguese by the King of Portugal has lately been published at Lisbon.
—Miss Alcott’s works are understood to have sold in England to the number of five hundred thousand copies.
—The splendid musical library of the late Dr. Julius Rietz has been added to the collection of the royal library at Dresden.
. —M- Gounod has set the dialogue of “ Cinq-Mars ” to recitative, and has added an air. The book has also been translated into German.
—The Comte de Paris, it seems, is still hard at work upon his “ History of the American Rebellion,” which is to extend to eight volumes.
—Early next month the Abbe Liszt will resume his duties as principal of the Pesth Conservatoire. He will remain at Pesth until Easter.	.
—The Swedish University of Upsala celebrated the four hundredth anniversary of its foundation by a choral performance by four thousand voices.
—“ How We Raised Our Baby” is the title of an anony-
mous book now in press. John Habberton has contributed an introduction, in which he commends it.	'
—It is said by the German papers that Herr Johann Strauss intends to take a dance band to France and Eng: land for a series of performances next season.
I —The Saturday concerts at the Crystal Palace in London and the Gewandhaus concerts of Leipsic have begun, and the Vienna Philharmonic concerts begin at the end of the month.
—Two grand concerts, at which Niemann will assist, are to be given at Brunswick, in honor of Franz Abt, who has entered upon his twenty-fifth year as court capellmeis-ter at that place.	’
—Official notice has been given that the khedive, for economical reasons, has decided to discontinue to support the Italian opera at Cairo. Consequently, the usual season has been abandoned.
—The Italian papers give us the startling piece of information that “ex-President Grant has been elected an honorary member of the Philharmonic Society of Scotland, in quality of first trumpet-player.”
—Wagner’s “ Walkure,” which was to have been brought out at the beginning of the Berlin season, will not be given for some lime yet. Wagner is said to be somewhat indignant at the delay of its production. .
—Prof. G. A. MacFarren’s new oratorio, “ Joseph,” which was recently produced at the Leeds festival, has produced no inconsiderable discussion in England, but the impression it created does not seem to have been very favorable.
—Mr. Watts has nearly completed a portrait of the Prince of Wales, which is said to be a striking likeness, and a fine piece of work. The same artist has also nearly concluded a colossal equestrian statue of Hugh Lupus, Earl of Chester, which is to be erected in the old city of Chester.
—The Duc de la Tremoille has presented a rare and costly illuminated manuscript to the Bibliotheque Nationale. It is a volume of eighty-seven pages, containing the life of St. Denis, and illustrated by thirty beautiful miniature paintings. The work was executed at the Abbey of St. Denis, in 1250.
—An exhibition of the drawings of the Old Masters is to be held at the Grosvenor Gallery, London. Many of the owners of treasures of this class, from the Queen downward, have signified their willingness to contribute loans to the collection.
—The proposed celebration at the Berlin Imperial operahouse of the hundredth anniversary of the production of Gluck’s “Arimde,” in Paris, has been prohibited by the intendant general of the royal theatres, who assigned as his reason that Berlin had no business to occupy itself with what had been done in Paris!
—The French sculptor^ F. L. Bogino, has lately exhibited at Paris his bronze reliefs designed for the monument of Mars-le-Tour, dedicated to the memory of the soldiers who fell in the battles between Aug. 16 and 18,1870. The works are declared to be worthy of the sculptor, who has heretofore achieved high honors in his profession.
—The Society of St. Gregory, whose object is to promote the cultivation and use of the Gregorian Chant, has among its honorary members one Cardinal, four Archbishops, seventeen Bishops and four mitred Abbots. And among its regular members it already counts twenty-eight priests, and a large number of organists and choir singers.
—Herr Hans von Bulow lately paid Baden a visit, after making a stay of nine weeks at Kreuznach, where he met a medical friend who discovered what was really the matter with him, and told him what was the proper treatment for his case. Herr von Bulow leads a very retired life, and avoids all society. Whether, or when, he will resume his professional career, is still very uncertain.
—Mr. Sims Reeves is now in Italy on a visit to his eldest son, who has for the past twelve months been studying in the land of song. It is not at all unlikely that young Mr. Reeves (who had a tender voice) may make his debut in Italy next year, and afterwards go to England. Another son of Mr. Sims Reeves has a baritone voice, but at present it is not intended to bring him forward in public.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
151
—The collection of the late M. Sensier, which is to be sold in Paris this winter, is especially rich in the early works of painters of the modern French school. M. Sensier was for many years landlord of Jean-Francois Millet and Theodore Rousseau, when it was easier for them to pay rent with pictures than with money. He was also a friend of a number of the leading artists, and thus became possessed of an inportant assemblage of paintings, sketches, and drawings, which illustrate the rise of the present school of art in France.
—Mr. A. M. Sullivan’s long-announced work on Ireland will appear in about a fortnight. Critics who have had a glimpse of the volumes in proof speak very highly of the manner and matter of the most ambitious, as it is likely to be the most popular, literary labor yet performed by the talented, member for Louth. The book is said to be as racy a picture of Ireland in its social, political, and other aspects as any sketched by Lever, while, of course, carrying the enchanced value of a serious purpose and a fit treatment of affairs important as well as interesting.
—The Marquis d’Ivry has written a new opera, “ Gli Amanti di Verona” (“Romeo and Juliet”). This makes the thirteenth opera composed on this subject, which was first selected by Shakspeare for stage purposes. The predecessors of the marquis have been as follows: Benda in 1772; Schwemberg in 1782; Mareschalki in 1789; Rumbling in 1790; Dalayrae in 1792; Steibelt in 1793; Zingrelli in 1796; Guglielmo in 1816; Vaccai in 1826; Bellini in 1836; Marchetti in 1867; Gounod in 1867. None of these works have been successful in any marked degree.
—Von Bulow has been appointed by imperial decree conductor of the Royal Opera of Hanover. He takes the place of Herr Jean Jos. Bott. The Hanover Gourrier says: “ Under his direction our opera will not only improve but prosper, and likewise the‘music of the future.’ When Bulow abandoned the profession of the law in 1850 he became a pupil of Liszt, and in 1854 married the daughter of his teacher. He accepted a position as professor of the piano at the Conservatory of Music in Berlin, remaining there until 1858, when he was created court pianist. In 1867 he was called to the directorship of the music school at Munich, which position he resigned in 1869. Being a most enthusiastic follower of the Wagner-Liszt school, he has modelled his compositions accordingly, and may be called its most illustrious disciple.”
Books and. Periodicals.
—We are under obligations to Mr. M. I. J. Griffin, editor of the I. G. B. V. Journal, for a copy of the “Proceedings of the Ninth Annual Convention of the Irish Catholic Benevolent Union” held at Richmond, Va. The “ Union” is in a most prosperous condition, and is doing a good work. It commands the good wishes of everyone desirous of advancing the interests of Irishmen and Catholics, and has ours. American Finance. The Errors and Want of the United
States’ People in Money Matters. Necessity for Legal Tender Greenbacks, and Destruction of Bonds. Mark M. Pomeroy, •Author and Publisher, Chicago: 1877. Price, 30 cents by mail, or four copies to one address for $1.
This little work of 160 pages expounds in a thorough and pleasing manner the.theory of the Greenback doctrine, which seems destined to prevail in all the States as it has done in the West. Though we do not agree'in all the statements of the author, yet in the main we approve of his work; and on the issues he treats, with exception of the payment of the bond in greenbacks, and the non-elasticity of the greenback itself, we heartity concur with him. We must pay the bonds in gold, because they have changed hands, on the faith of the Act enacted in ’69 by the Republican party, and the repeal of that Act would be a practical breaking of the nation’s faith. And in the second place, “ we must have just the amount of currency in the country which it needs, no matter whether it be a hundred millions more or a hundred millions less than the present volume of currency. For there ismo other rule for the quantity of money than the demand of legitimate business.” We heartily recommend this’ work to all desiring knowledge of the nation’s wants, and their practical and certain | remedy.
Salutations.—The Jews said “ Shalum ”—peace. The Greeks, “Chaire”—be glad. The Romans, “Vale” and “ Salve”—be strong and healthy. The Genoese said,“ Sanite e guadagno ’’—health and gain. The Neapolitans, “ Cres-cete insanita”—grow in piety. The Russians say“Rab-vash ”—your slave, and “ Kholop vash ”—your serf. The French say, “ Comment vous portez-vous?”—how do you carry yourself? The Germans, “ Wie geht’s how goes it? “Leben Sie wohl”—live well. The Italians,“ Come sta?”—how do you stand? The Chinese, “How is your stomach ?” The Egyptians,“ How do you sweat ?” The English, “ How do you do ?” The Yankees," How d’ye do ?”
—The first watch was about the size of a desert-plate. It had weights, aud was used as a “pocket clock.” The earliest known use of the modern name occurs in the record of 1552, which mentions that Edward VI had “ one larum or watch of iron the case being likewise of iron gilt, with two plummets of lead.” The first watches may readily be supposed to have been of rude execution. The first great improvement, the substitution of springs for weights, was in 1550. The earliest springs were not coiled, but only straight pieces of steel. Early watches had only one hand, and, being wound up twice a day, they could not be expected to keep time nearer than fifteen or twenty minutes in the twelve hours. The dials were of silver or brass; the cases had no crystals, but opened at the back and front, and were four or five inches in diameter. A plain watch cost the equivalent of §1,600 in our currency, and after one was ordered it took a year to make it.
—The immense stones used in the erection of the pyramids of Egypt were obtained from the quarries in the Arabian hills, and were carried to the river over a bridge of boats. They were then brought by means of a causeway, which of itself took ten years to consruct, and which is said to have been a fine work, with its polished stones and figures of animals engraved upon them. One hundred thousand men were employed at a time, and these were relieved by the same number at the end of three months. A long time was spent in the levelling of the rock on which the edifice stands, and twenty years for the erection of the edifice itself. The stones were raised step by step by means of a machine made of short pieces of wood, and last of all, commencing from the top, the stones were cemented together by layers of cement not thicker than a strip of paper, the strength of which is proved by the age of those enormous memorials.—Ex.
—The opposition of Mars in August, 1877, occurred when the planet was very near its perihelion. - The body was, therefore, in the best possible position for close examination. At the approach of this favorable epoch the new twenty-six inch refractor of the Naval Observatory at Washington, under the skilful direction of Prof. Asaph Hall, was turned upon the planet. On the night of August 11th a small star was observed near the disk of Mars, but its true character was not then suspected, or at least not determined. On Thursday night, the 16th, at 11"’ 42“., Prof. Hall again noticed a star of the thirteenth or fourteenth magnitude, very close to Mars, and measured its apparent distance from the planet. On the same night, about two o’clock, he again examined the planet, and to his great surprise found that the small star had moved in company with Mars. He had therefore discovered a Martial satellite. On Friday morning the observations were submitted to Prof. Simon Newcomb, who, from the data furnished by a watch of five hours, calculated the time of revolution, which he fixed as a first approximation at 31 or 32 hours. This showed that the satellite must pass behind Mars some time during the following night. It was accordingly invisible when first looked for in the evening, but, as predicted by Newcomb, it reappeared about one o’clock. On Saturday morning the discovery was made known to Admiral Rodgers, the superintendent of the Observatory. . It was determined, however, to wait for another observation before formally announcing so important a discovery. On Saturday evening the satellite was again found very nearly in its predicted place, and its exact position was measured by several astronomers.—Prof. Daniel Hirkicood, in Popular. Science Monthly for October.
152	THE NOTRE DAME SCfiOLASTlC*

jNotrc Dame, November 3, 1877.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year. '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Lit crary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Irreligion in Literature^
There is little question of the fact that we live in an age and country emphatically godless. It is the fashion to leave the sovereignty of a loving and all-wise Creator entirely out of consideration, even in grave matters, and the consequence is that very few, comparatively speaking, really believe in the God whom Christians adore. What great wonder is it, then, that our popular plays and our popular literature respond to the universal taste, and not only utterly ignore the precepts of Christianity, setting them at defiance, but even hold them up to the contempt and scorn of the world? The only wonder is that Christian people do not discover this fact, and guard those placed under their charge from becoming the victims of godless plays and godless literature.
True, the young must be amused; all must be amused; indeed as a nation we are mid for amusements. To attempt their banishment would be a puritanic folly of which no wise man would be guilty. Our only hope is to encourage the better class, and improve upon those if we can. To make people good, -there is no doubt that we must render them happy, and to effect this we must furnish them with suitable pastimes. Let us not be understood, however, by happiness to mean the mere gratification of the senses, the satisfaction of the selfish, the animal and intellectual propensities. This is very far from our intention, for this idea of happiness is the shoal upon which the destiny of millions is wrecked. By the word happiness we desire to convey the idea of something infinitely above pleasure. We wish to be understood to mean the exercise and development of the nobler capabilities of the human soul; and since amusements have so large a share in the moulding of the unformed mind, to disregard their moral tendency is to expose the young to peril, for the most insidious moral corruption may pene
trate the pure young heart through the agency of what is believed to be the most harmless recreation.
The young must be amused; but in a professedly Chris-tian country is there no alternative but to serve them disgraceful exhibitions like those of “ Undine,” the “ White Fawn,” the “ Black Crook,” and those of similar stamp ? But, setting aside those openly vicious and completely unintellectual displays, what can be said in favor of theatrical representations claiming higher pretentions, those which essay to entertain the mental powers, but which conceal under the specious garb of refined and elegant diction the deadly poison of depraved sentiments?
We may admire the fine talents of Schiller, the great German, and accord the meed of praise to the poet, while we are constrained to admit that the bosom friend of the infidel Goethe, who lived and wrote when the entire atmosphere of Europe was rife with impiety and hatred to religion, is quite unworthy to lead the mind and instruct the heart of youth. To successfully represent human nature is not the acme of play writing; nor is dramatic effect the sole object to be sought in the preparation of a tragedy. To elevate the standard of thought and encourage the pursuit of virtue is the only honorable end. To misrepresent virtuous historical personages can scarcely be forgiven. Were Mary Queen of Scots alive, she would shudder at the caricature of herself eliminated from the brain of an author who, though capable of appreciating much that is noble in nature, had not the slightest conception of the restraining and elevating power of divine grace. Accepting a false history of his heroine, he gives to us, not Mary Queen of Scots, but a passionate, revengeful, vain creature of his own imagination. The integrity of sublime Christian faith put to the most severe and cruel test, which, had the author possessed the faintest idea.of the Catholic religion, would have added grandeur to romance in the personation, is actually turned into an insignificant farce.
Upon plays of another class we need pass no comment save to express our regret that dramas of a nature to extenuate wickedness and throw a halo of plausibility and beauty over crime, are encouraged by a class from whom we should look for better things: men and women who ostrich-like hide their poor heads under the sand of wilful ignorance, and by this means hope to escape the fierce simoom of retribution which must sooner or later overtake them for their temerity and levity of example.
Joseph Addison ranks as first among our standard English writers; but, notwithstanding this, when he presents ■ a vivid picture of the patriotic Roman, enlists our sympathies in his cause, invests him with all the charm of every natural virtue, making him appear to the susceptible imagination of the young as a kind of demigod, but closes up the drama of this wonderful life by making the hero commit the dastardly act of suicide, who can defend the morality of his plays? Alas, must we be driven back to pagan times to find in pagan history models for our imitation ? Has Christianity afforded, no heroes, no events capable of enlisting the interests and kindling the enthusiasm of the dramatist? Certainly she has, and Cardinal Wiseman and other Christian writers have already written some noble Christian plays; yet “very good people” often prefer the delineation of the evil passions, shrugging the shoulder, it is true, at the portrayal and triumph of vice, yet encouraging by their criminal silence that which they would blush to commend by their lips. Are they not blind leaders of the blind ?

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
153
May we be pardoned a slight digression ? Above we _ would have naturally written “ sons and daughters,” for to keep the heart of a young man unsullied is really quite as important as to maintain purity in that of his sister. We could never see the consistency of excluding one half the human race from the advantages to arise from the mastery of evil passions, and have good reason to believe that the effeminacy, and want of real independence and vigor which ' is so common among men of the present day, results from the small value placed upon the innocence of young men, even by so-called pious parents. We need some salutary lessons from the ages of faith, when the most heroic and . daring warriors were always counted among those who were most pure. The vile slave to his animal nature was regarded as unworthy the Christian name.
Some one in days past has said, “Let me make the songs of a nation, and I care not who makes her laws.” Alas I were we to-day to substitute “literature” for “songs,” startling and painful as would be the assertion it would be equally significant. Our literature is the fountain of our immorality as a people. Victor Hugo, whose translations are read with such avidity by “ the more refined classes,” like many of his compeers strives to make suicide appear as a sublime act, when every Christian should know that there is no greater insult to G-od than to lay violent hands on one’s self. Charles Dickens, who by some weak-minded persons is believed “to have done more to elevate the masses of England than any man who has ever lived,” makes it a point to embellish and render praiseworthy the breach of matrimonial constancy; and he is followed by a countless train of flashy writers, like himself without a Christian conscience, but eager for the same object, namely to glut the market with mental poison and to render vice attractive and irresistible. The two points of defiance to religion which we have mentioned are simple examples, a drop in the ocean, since there is not a commandment of the Decalogue or of the Church not subject to the contempt and ridicule of our fashionable writers, and our assertion can be abundantly proved. If so, where is the prudence in leaving the young to decide their selection of authors? If to appear well-informed, a lady or gentleman must be subjected to the ordeal of imbibing deadly corruption, better a thousand times to be ill-informed. But this is not necessary. Irreligious writers are invariably shallow. We positively gain nothing in the perusal of their works. Their science is false, their sincerity affected, and their syle often mere verbiage. Not so with our Schlegel, our Lacordaire and Montalembert, our Balmes, our Faber, our Kenrick, Spalding, Hecker, and numberless others who write or have written to instruct and elevate their readers, and not (as in the other case) for the purpose of enticing them to destruction. We are not destitute of safe lighter reading. Lady Georgiana Fullerton, Mrs. Dorsey George H. Miles, and even his Eminence Cardinal Wiseman, have all generously contributed to this important fund of literature, and others are constantly adding to the list. There is indeed no valid excuse for reading irreligious authors, or encouraging immoral plays. Ignorance or levity on the part of parents and guardians are answerable when children and youth are exposed to the danger in question; and where the immortal souls of those under their charge are at stake, this ignorance and levity can scarcely be less than criminal.
—Who is to blame for the blanks in our lists?
Personal.
—Edward McSweeney of ’74, is practicing law in Oil City, Pa.
—Mrs. C. Walsh and her son Charles, of ’61, visited Notre Dame last week.	‘
—Isaac and Nathan Dryfoos (Commercial, of 76,) are residing in Cleveland, Ohio.
—John P. Flaherty (Commercial, of ’75.) is clerking for F. C. Bentley & Son, Beloit, Wis. He subscribes for two copies of the Scholastic, which shows him to be a young man of sense.
—On Tuesday last, Oct. 33th, John D. McCormick, B. S., of ’73, was married at St. Mary’s Church, Lancaster, Ohio, to Miss Lizzie McManamy, of that city. We tender our sincere good wishes for the welfare of the young couple. Mr. McCormick is Mayor of the city of Lancaster.
—Rev. D. Tighe, of ’71, came over from Chicago last week to attend the funeral of his sister, a religious, who died at St. Mary’s. We sympathize with him in the sorrow which this death has brought upon him. Rev. Father Hannon, of Toledo, was also here at the same time.
—Lawrence and James Wilson (Commercial, of ’71 and ’73.) both of whom are in business with their father, and doing well, write to us that they “ cannot get along without the Scholastic,” and they wonder how. any others of the old students can. Well, we have certainly met with few strictures, so far, regarding the conduct of our paper; everyone that we meet, or hear of, has a kind word for it, but if all its well-wishers among the old students acted as have Messrs. James and Lawrence Wilson its subscription list would at least be twice as large as it is.
—The Cathedral of the Holy Name, on North State Street, was the scene of a pleasant social event on last evening, the occasion being the marriage of Mr. James Ward to Miss Agatha St. Clair. The parties are well known in the city, and the spacious Cathedral was filled with friends and acquaintances of the young people. The crowd waited patiently for the arrival of the party, which appeared about 7 o’clock. The bride was attended by Miss Mary Cochrane and Miss Hannah Corcoran as first and second bridesmaids, Mr. John Clearwell and Mr.-Theodore Amberg acting as groomsmen. The ushers were Messrs. Charles M. Ford, William Sweeney, S. J. Klare, and W. F. Mahony. The party stepped up to the altar-rail, and Bishop Foley read the service and pronounced the sacred words which joined the couple till parted by death. The ceremony over, the party returned to the carriages and drove to the residence of the bride’s aunt, No. 806 Wabash Avenue, where a spread was laid out and the guests received.—Chicago Times of Oct. 25.
—The people of this community received a fearful shock on last Sunday evening in the news of the death of James Dore. The news of his severe illness had been pretty generally spread during Saturday and Sunday, yet but very few, even of his own family, realized that his end was so near. Mr. Dore had returned from Chicago about a week previous to his death, and from the time of his return until the Tuesday previous to his death he was not feeling in good health, but kept about his business. On Tuesday, Oct. 9th, he went home, but from that time until Saturday morning did not seem to be dangerously sick. At this time, however, his parents became alarmed and called in additional medical assistance, in the person of Dr. Cowen, and on Sunday Drs. Ellinger and Oliver, Dr. C. M. Duncan having been first called. During a part of Saturday and until his death Sunday evening at six o’clock, the patient was fearfully wild, it requiring the strength of two or three strong men to keep him in bed. His sufferings were intense until the hour above stated, when his spirit passed gently away. We have not had an opportunity of consulting the attending physician, or any member of the family, but from what we hear we are of the opinion that the patient was suffering much more than his friends supposed when he arrived home from Chicago, but from the nature of the disease (brain fever) he was not altogether rational at the time, and hence did not complain. Young Dore was a little past 18 years of age, had received a good education, having graduated at Notre Dame, Indiana, and had
154
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
for the past two years, principal charge of the books and business of his father’s store. He was a young man of good habits, generally liked by all his acquaintances; his untimely death is an irreparable loss to his father, and will cause an aching void in the hearts of every member of the family, and also of his many friends, that time cannot heal. The bereaved have the sympathy of the entire community. The funeral took place last Tuesday from the Catholic church, and was one of the largest we have ever witnessed in Hennepin. Father Quigley, of Henry, Ill., conducted the services.—Putnam Record of Oct. 19.
Local Items.
—Last Wednesday was Hallow Eve.
—The baseball season will soon be over.
—Racket is considerably played by the Juniors.
—The Senior ball-alley presents a lively scene every recreation.
—The Reading-Room Association was organized Thursday, Nov. 1st.
—The Life of Daniel O’Connell is now being read in the Senior refectory.
—On last Wednesday the Juniors paid a visit to the far-famed Bertrand.
—The heavy frosts the past week brought to the ground most of the leaves of the forest.
—All Saints’ Day was celebrated at Notre Dame with the usual religious ceremonies.
—In the Junior refectory the readers are engaged on “The Martyrs of the Colosseum.”
—Joe is fixing up the Junior study-hall with flowers. The boys say he is a boss gardener.
—Now that much of the scaffolding in the church is taken away, the paintings look grand.
—We have a few bound volumes of last year’s Scholastic which we will dispose of at a low figure.
—The Office of the Dead was chanted on All Souls’ Day, after which a Solemn High Mass of Requiem was sung.
—Rev. Father Ford presented the Juniors with a young canary bird, for which they return their most sincere thanks.
—There are five German classes in good running order here. Some of these classes are more than ordinarily good.
—Work will soon begin on the skating-rink. It don’t do to depend on the lakes for one’s skating during the winter.
—Signor Gregori is painting a large portrait of Very Rev. President Corby, which he intends giving to the College.
—Parties wanting cards are referred to the advertisement of Mr. E. A. Wilkie, under the head of “ Visiting Cards.”
—The double windows have been put up in the College building—a preparation for the reception of the coming winter.
—The regular weekly meeting of the faculty took place this week on Tuesday instead of Thursday, because of the holyday.
—The number of students in the Senior Department this year far exceeds the number that were in that department last year.
—The cases for the collection of skeletons have been finished. For the present, the old Museum will be used for keeping them.
—We had the usual number of games of baseball, football, etc., this last week. One scrub game of baseball was entirely one-sided.
—Now that classes go along smoothly, the recreations 'quiet, and everything settled down in peace, it is no easy job to get items for this column.
—There is a great rush of work in the tailor-shop at the Manual Labor School, and excellent suits of clothes are daily turned out by the energetic workmen.
—Every day the Rev. Director of Studies visits some of
the classes to see what progress is made by the Students. So far, he has had very little to complain of.
—There are now between four and five thousand volumes in the Circulating Library—some two thousand more than the types made us say in our last number.
—There is no decrease in the number of visitors to Notre Dame. Every day carriages arrive hour after hour, and the occupants are shown over the grounds by the affable porter.
—The St. Cecilians of former years ought to be delighted to think that “The Upstart” is now printed by Fox, of St. . Louis, and that they can get a copy of it for twenty-five cents.	~
—The psahns sung at Vespers to-morrow are Dixit Do-minus, page 15, of theVesperal; Confitebor, page 15; Beatus Vir, page 2; Laudato, pueri, page 16; and Memento, Domino, page 19.
—Every Catholic student should attach himself to some one of the religious societies. The meetings of these so cieties will be most interesting and profitable to all the members.
—Brainard's Musical World, which ranks among musical journals as first-class, says: “ The Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind., is one of the best college papers we have ever seen.”
—The course of lectures has now begun. Lectures will be given by Rev. Fathers Walsh and Zahm, and Profs. Howard, Stace, Schnurrer and Ivers, and, it is hoped, by a number of strangers.
—The Society of St. Gregory publish their bulletins in the Catholic Review. From the first bulletin we see that Gregorian music has already been introduced iuto quite a number of churches in the United States.
—It looks as though winter would soon be upon us—at least it looks so now, at the beginning of the week, while we are writing. It may, however, at the end of the week look as though we were to have summer over again.
—Signor Gregori is drawing a design of an “Assumption ” for Father DOhmig’s Church in Avilla. By the way, Fathers Diihmig and Noll dropped in to see us last Tuesday, in company with Mr. John Koonz, of Union City.
—On account of the holydays, which prevented manual labor this last week, we were forced to close our columns earlier than usual. As a consequence, many society, baseball, and other items have to lay over until our next issue.
—The game of Lacrosse is becoming a very popular game. We understand the Juniors are about to introduce it into their department. Several of the Juniors are acquainted with the game, and say that it is more interesting than foot-ball.
—The 9th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Oct. 28. Essays were read by Messrs. Luther and Fischel, and a declamation was given by C. Nodler. By request, Mr. L. D. Murphy gave several fine readings.
—The classes of Penmanship in the Commercial Department are quite large, and the students are making great progress. Since John Lambin and T. Quinn, the two late leaders, do not attend the classes this year, quite a general rivalry has begun.
—Under the supervision of Bro. Paul, a number of the plants have been transplanted in the Junior study-hall and a new supply added. They were presented to the Juniors by the Sisters of St. Mary’s, and for them the Juniors feel very grateful.
—Last Sunday being the third auniversary of the death of Rev. Father Lemonnier, his grave was profusely decrated with natural flowers, myrtle vines and geranium leaves. Directly over his head was placed a crown of white flowers surmounted by a cross of tube-roses.
—It was found necessary to postpone the annual retreat of the Catholic students for several weeks, when it will be preached by Rev. Wm. F. O’Mahoney. The fact that he is to preach it, is a guarantee that the retreat will be successful in attaining the results for which it is to be held.
—The Sth regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society was held Oct. 29th. A spirited debate took place, the principal speakers being Messrs. Scanlan and
5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
155
McCarthy; Messrs. McNellis, Abrahams, Lang, Haffner, Pennington, Pleins, A. J. Burger and Gibbons also took part.
—In looking over the past records of students, we find that James Dore, lately deceased, stands second to none. He was a student at Notre Dame for three years, and during that time his name was never missing from the Roll of Honor. We trust that his record is as good on the Book of Life, and let it be an example for all.
—We call the attention of all the old St. Cecilians to the advertisement of “ The Upstart.” The play will be sent to any address on the receipt of 25 cts., by P. Fox, the publisher, St. Louis, Mo. “The Upstart” was a great favorite at Notre Dame, and all the old students remember the fine acting of C.‘ A. Berdel in the role of “ Mr. Jourdain.” We understand that the St. Cecilians will reproduce it some time this year, when we hope it will be given with the same eclat that always accompanied it.
—The ninth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association took place on the 27th ult. Mr. Coddington was elected a member of the Association. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. C. Cavanagh, C. Hagan, C. Walsh, R. Keenan, R. Mayer, C. Walker, J. Perea, F. McGrath, J. A. Burger, G. Sugg, J. Healy, W. Jones. Essays were read by Messrs. F. Cavanaugh, G. Cassidy, and C. Clarke. A remarkable debate is going on in the Society, an account of which will be given in the next report. Very Rev. Father Ccrby was present, and complimented the members; Bro. Leander was also present at the meeting.
—There is no dearth of good Catholic weekly papers. There is the Pilot, the Catholic Review, the Tablet, the Catholic Standard, the Catholic Columbian, the Catholic Telegraph, the Catholic Union, the Catholic Universe, and many others which we have noticed in these columns. If, however, our readers wish another sprightly paper filled with good editorials and fine selections, we can recommend the Catholic Mirror, of Baltimore, which is a most readable paper. With the facilities which the publishers, Messrs. Kelly & Piet, have for obtaining literary news, we trust that they will add to the value of their paper by giving us every week a resume of the Catholic literary news of Europe. If our readers wish a good Western paper we can recommend to them the Western Watchman, of St. Louis, the editor of which is a man of great ability. In the Northwest, the Northwestern Chronicle supplies its patrons with a live paper. On the Pacific slope the Monitor rules supreme, while for the South the Catholic Advocate, of Louisville, is all that could be desired.
—Among the many means of acquiring general knowledge there is perhaps none better than lectures on subjects judiciously chosen and carefully placed before the mind of the student. We are glad to be able to announce that there will be a spirited course of lectures given here during the year, in Phelan Hall, for the benefit of the students of Notre Dame. The students who have the privilege of attending this course will no doubt reap great benefits therefrom. The Very Rev. President introduced the subject of lectures on the evening of the 25th, and urged all who could to attend, and promised a highly interesting treat to the students during the lecture season. He also spoke on Paganism, which, in the light of Christianity, seems so absurd, but found it a matter of great surprise to find men of the present day, in our own country, and in the full blaze of the enlightened nineteenth century, falling back into the old, stupid, materialistic doctrines of blind Paganism. Many who had never before given this subject serious attention found in the explanation of Paganism food for reflection.	.
—It was proposed by some one, some weeks ago, that the Juniors have a “speelling-bee ” partly for the purpose of testing their knowledge as spellers, and partly to amuse. Chas. Hagan came out victor in the contest, spelling down all the boys in the Junior Department, and was awarded a prize by Very Rev. President Corby. The affair passed off so pleasantly—and, we trust, profitably—that Friday day was appointed for a second contest. Hagan and Cassidy, the two last that were spelled down in the first match, were appointed captains. ■ They chose sides according to the usual method, and it was plainly to be seen when the two sides were drawn out in file that they both were ac
quainted with the best spellers. All being in readiness, the Rev. Director of Studies made a few appropriate remarks, and then requested Prof. Lyons, who is a great favorite with the Juniors, to give out the words. The boys showed their appreciation by a hearty round of applause. The Professor stepped to the front and gave out words to each side respectively for three quarters of an hour ,when it was found that Hagan’s side had missed thirteen words and Cassidy’s twelve. Then came the spelling down, which was far more exciting. After twenty minutes there stood but four boys, an Ohio and an Illinois boy on one side, and an Illinois and Missouri boy on the other; viz.: George Sugg and W. Walker, of Cassidy’s side, and George Orr and Frank McGrath, of Hagan’s side. After a lapse of five minutes the two Georges stood alone. The Professor’s vocabulary of test words was very nearly exhausted when Sugg missed, Master George Orr smiled and spelled the word correctly, and, of course, was acknowledged the hero of the evening. He also received a prize similar to that given to Hagan. Honor to George Orr, of Steubenville, 0.! It was a very pleasant affair, and no doubt will be repeated soon again.
Roll of Honor.
[In the folio wing list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given sat-istaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SEXIOK DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, E. Anderson, J. Bell, T. Barrot, P. J. Cooney, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, E. Chatterton, B. J. Claggett, J. Carroll, W. L. Dechant, E. C. Davenport, E. Dempsey, J. M. Devine, P. J. Dougherty, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. J. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, F. Fulkerson, R. Francis W. C. Farrar, J. Feuerstein, E, Gramling, A. Ginz, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, A. 3. Hertzog, P. Hagan, J. J. Houck, VV. Hoyte, M. Hogan, L. Horn, J. Hoffman, F. Hoffman, O. Hamilton, A. Hettinger, J. Q. Johnson, A VV. Johnson, F. Keller, J. Kuebel, A. Keenan, B. Krautzer, Jas. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. VV. Mattimore, L. D. Murphy, W. J. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, V. T. McKinnon, H. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, J. J. McEniry, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, 0. McKone, 3. McConlogue, T. O’Grady, W. L. Prudhomme, J. L. Perea, E. Poor, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Qninn, M. J. Regan, J. Rice, T. Summers, G. Saxinger, J. J. Shngrue, C. L. Stuckey, S. T. Spalding, F. Walter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arentz, F. W. Bloom, M. Burns, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, A J. Burger, J. Byrne, H. E. Canoil, J. Carrer, F. T. Clarke, C. J. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, F. E. Carroll, G. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, G. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, J. Cassard, W. Doyle, G. H. Donnelly, R. French, P. Frain, L. Garceau, 3. A. Gibbons, H. A. Gramling, A. Hatt, J. L. Healy, G. Heitkam, J. E. Halloran, A. Hamilton, G. L. Ittenbach, J. Lumley, J. L. Lemarie, VV. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, A. A. Miller, Thos. Nelson, T. O’Hara, G. Orr, F. T. Pleins, S. 8. Perley, E. J. Pennington, A. Reitz, K. L. Scanlan, J. K. Schobey, F. J. Singler, C. Van Mourick, E. S. Walter, W. A Widdicombe.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. A. Scanlan, W. McDevitt, M. Herrick, W. A Coghlin, J. Courtney, Jas. Courtney, J. A. Seeger, W. J. Coolbaugh, John Inderrieden, F. M. Gaffney, A. Hartrath, R. Costello, G. Knight, O. Farrelly, F. Berry, C. Herzog, J. McGrath, H. Kitz, H. Snee, C. Garrick, E. Herzog, C. Welty, J. Devine, Jos. Inderrieden, J. Crowe, C. Long, I. McGrath, P. Fitzgerald.
------------------------ ■
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. G. Ewing, Jos. P. McHugh, Jno. Coleman, Wm. Dechant, J. McEniry, A. Hertzog, H. Maguire, L. Evers, M. J. McCue, J. P. Kinney, J. A. Burger, J. P. Quinn, J. J. Quinn, J. D. Montgomery, A K. Schmidt, P. W. Mattimore, P. F. McCullough, J. J. Shugrue, F. Bloom, A. Widdicombe, G. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Joseph Courtney, A. M. Coghlin, P. P. Nelson, J. M. Scanlan, W. McDevitt, A. 3. Bushey, M. Herrick, G. J. Rhodius, W. A. Coghlin, C. Crenncn, J. Courtney, J. A. Seeger, W. J. Coolbaugh, John Inderrieden, N. Nelson, F. Gaffney, A. Hartrath,
156
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
R. Costello, G. Knight, O. Farrelly, C. Crowe, H. Snee, J. Inder-rieden, C. Bushey, J. McGrath, I. McGrath, E. Herzog, F. Farrelly, C. Long, C. Welty, J. Devine.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
Philosophy—John G. Ewing, Jos. P. McHugh; Latin—J. G. Ewing, A. Hertzog, Jno. J. Quinn, J. McEniry, W. A. Widdi-combe; Greek—J. P. McHugh, J. G. Ewing, H. Maguire, A Hertzog, L. Evers, F. Bloom, M. Regan, Jno. Healy; History -----; Rhetoric—P. McCullough; Composition----; English Literature—H. Maguire; Physics—J. A. Burger, J. Coleman; Chemistry—J. A. Burger; Mineralogy—W. Dechant; Physiology —J. Fitzgerald, J. P. Kinney; Botany—W. A. Widdicombe, J. A. Burger; Zoology—L. Evers, J. McEniry ; Astronomy------; Calculus----; Trigonometry—J. A Burger; Logic—E. Arnold,
J. J.Quinn,V. McKinnon; Algebra-----; Geometry-----.
* No reports have been handed in from the above classes.

—Aii assistant Chaplain has taken up his residence at St. Mary’s, Rev. Father Sulnier, C. S. C. He has lately arrived from the distant mission of Bengal. We hope the climate of America will form a pleasing contrast with that of his former home.
—The musical execution of Miss Pleins at the soiree on Tuesday, the 23d ult., was greatly admired, as was also the exquisite vocal duett sung by the Misses L. and A. Kirchner. Rev. Father Shortis, C. S. C., made some very interesting remarks at the close of the soiree.
—The instruction at Loreto on Monday was on the Apostolate of each Child of Mary and each member of the Holy Childhood then present. The efficacy of prayer, and its potency in the hands of even a child, no matter how young, was treated of in eloquent language. The profound attention of the crowded audience was the most perfect proof of the deep impression made.
—The meeting of the St Cecilians in the Vocal Hall on Saturday, the 27th ult., was signalized by the Directress of Music in the reading of a treatise which elicited the warmest praise. An immense advantage is given to the pupils in music by these entertainments, as information on musical topics is imparted in such a manner as not only to store the mind with musical facts, but to cultivate the taste, directingitin theproper channels, and teachingyoung ladies discrimination in judging musical authors, performances, etc.
—Miss M. Letourneau, niece of Rev. L. J. Letourneau, C. S. C., and a former esteemed and beloved pupil of St. Mary’s, bade good-bye to her old friends at the Academy last week, after her visit paid in honor of the Feast of St. Edward. She is always welcome, and a new interest attaches to her friendship since the sad catastrophe of L’ Amer-ique. Miss Letourneau was one of the passengers on board during that memorable voyage when the shaft of the steamer was broken in mid-ocean, and the darkest fears were entertained that its precious freightage would never reach the shore.
—On Sunday evening, the 28th, the first No. of “Rosa Mystica,” volume fourth, was read in the study hall after the distribution of points. The editresses were the Misses M. O’Connor, M. Spier and M. Harris. Very Rev. Father General, who was present, commended the paper very highly and praised the manner in which it was read. The columns are furnished with original compositions. No selected pieces are admitted. Many articles full of sound thought and superior diction, on important subjects, were contributed by the young ladies, but there was a constant vivacity maintained by witty paragraphs and spicy poems,
so that even the least intellectual of the pupils present did ot weary of the more profound portions.
—Very Rev. Father General took occasion on Sunday evening to thank publicly the young ladies who gave the beautiful Entertainment of the 13th in his honor. He enlarged upon the advantages accruing to the young ladies themselves from participating in dramatic representations of a refined and ennobling stamp like that which they had presented. He also thanked them for their beautiful letters of congratulation, and said there were many, especially in French, which he should preserve as models of epistolary elegance. He said he felt assured that when the feasts of their own parents at home should arrive, each one would -manifest the same devotedness as they had exhibited in honoring his festival, and their affection would prove to their parents that money had not been thrown away on them.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses J. Cooney, E. O’Neill, A. Hen-neberry, M. Spier, A Harris, M. O’Connor, A Piet, B. Reynolds, P. Gaynor.
1st Senior Class—Misses C. Boyce, H. Russell, M. Ewing, B. Wilson, I. Fisk.
2d Sr. Class—Misses B. Thompson, C. Silverthorne, M. Way, L. Kenna, N. Keenan, S. Hamilton, M. Birch, N. Davis, M. Luce, E. Kirchner, N. McGrath.
3d Sr. Class—Misses L. Otto, J. Burgert, F. Crcgier, E. Shaw, K. Hackett, M. Brown, C. Ortmeyer, L. Hoag, K. Schwass, M. Wagner, K. Riordan, A. Brown, M. Halligan, M. O’Neil, M. Plattenburg, H. Millis, L. Papin.
1st Prep. Class—Misses J. and M. Winston, A. Farrell.
2d Prep. Class—Misses L. Neu, E. Miller, E. Thomas, M. Whiteside, J. Barnes.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
3d Sr. Class—Misses A. Ewing, A Kirchner, M. Mulligan, A. Gordon, A Morgan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses L. Chilton, A. McGrath, A. Geiser.
2d Prep. Class—Misses J. Kingsbury, F. Fitz, M. Lambin.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses M. Hake, A. McGinnis, F. Sunderland, L. Fox, L. French, M. Lyons, L. Van Namee, M. McFadden.
1st Jr. Class—Miss J. Butts.
2d Jr. Class—Misses M. Lloyd, L. McFarland, L. Walsh, B. and T. Haney, M. Ivers, P. Felt.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Latin Class—Misses J. Cooney, A. Piatt.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Luce, M. Plattenburg, O. Franklin, H. Hoag.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st French Class—Misses A Harris, H. Russell, N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne.
2d Class—Misses J. Burgert, N. Keenan, H. Millis, A. McGrath, M. Ewing, S. Moran, A Geiser.
2d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, I. Fisk, M. O’Neill, M. Winston, M. Brown, M. Birch, T. Whiteside, M. Wagner, E. Mulligan, A. Ewing.
4th Class—Misses E. Shaw, A. Dopp, M. Casey, M. Danaher, Z. Papin, L. Chilton, L. French, L. Fox.
GERMAN.
2d Class—Misses A Kirchner, M. Usseiman, A. Gordon, E.' Walsh.
2d Div.—Misses C. Ortmeyer, A. Reising, S. Rheinboldt, L. O’Neill, A. Henneberry, K. Barrett.
3d Class—Misess M. Way, E. Miller, 8. Hamilton, F. Cregier, C. Boyce.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
3d Div.—Misses C. Silverthorne and A. Geiser.
2d Class—Misses N. Keenan, L. Kirchner, A. Harris.
2d Div.—Misses M. Spier, L. O’Neill, E. Miller.
3d Class—Misses H. Buck, T. Whiteside, A Henneberry, M. Usseiman.
2d Div.—Misses L. Neu, A. Gordon, J. Burgert.
4th Class—Misses M. Brown, A. Kirchner, E. Lange, L. Walsh, A. and N. McGrath.
2d Div—Misses P. Gaynor, A.Farrell, K. Hackett, A. Morgan, C. Ortmeyer, J. Cooney.
5th Class—Misses B. Anderson, M. Donahoe, H. Hoag, M. Winston, M. Mullen, A. Woodin.
2d Div.—Misses K. Barrett, M. White, M. Way, M. Cleary, K. Riardon, E. Papin, E. Shaw, L. Otto, L.~ Hoag, B. Thompson, J. Winston, L. M. French.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .
157
6th Class—Misses E. Thomas, M. Mullgau, M. Ewing, 8. Rheinboldt, O. Eranklin, A. Ewing, C. Boyce, N. Hackett, C. Van Namee, M. Halligan, A Thomas.
2d Div.—Misses M. Hake, M. Plattenburg, M. Lambin, L Fisk, B. Parrott; A. Peak. E. Wright, F. Brazelton.
7th Class—Misses M. Birch, L. Fox, A. McGinnis.
8th Class—Misses L. McFarland, L. Ellis, E. Mulligan, J. Kingsbury.
9th Class—Misses M. McFadden, E. Wooten.
Guitar—Miss B. Anderson.
Private Thorough Bass Class—Misses B. Wilson, T. Pleins, A. Geiser, K. Kirchner.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, M. Usselman, A. Kirchner A. Reising.	•
3d Class—Misses A. Gordon, L. Otto, A. Brown, K. Hackett.
4th Class—Misses J. Winston, M. O’Neill, K. Riordan, S. Rheinboldt, A. Farrell, M. Casey, A. Geiser.
5th Class—Misses B. Anderson, L. Schwass, M. Mulligan.
General Class—Misses B. Thompson, N. Hackett, M. Hake, J, Butts, L. Van Namee.	-
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3d Class—Miss L. Kirchner.’	.
4th Class—Miss M. Spier.
5th Class—Misses T. Whiteside, N. Davis, 8. Rheinboldt, M. Plattenburg, A. Kirchner, A. Farrell, E. Mulligan, L. French, E. Thomas, L. McFarland, J. Butts, S. Hamilton.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR department.
Misses J. Burgert, L. Otto, C. Ortmeyer, 8. Rheinboldt, M. Way, A. Brown, B. Thompson, H. and L. Hoag, T. Pleins, J. and M. Winston, A, Dopp, B. Parrott, E. Miller, E. Shaw, M. Brown, H. Buck, L. Papin, M. Mullen, K. Hackett, L. Kenna, M. Danaher, N. McGrath, L. Walsh, M. Wagner, M. Cleary, F. Brazelton, J. Barnes, B. Anderson.
junior department.
Misses D. Gordon, L. Chilton, A. Morgan, A. Kirchner, L. French, A. McGiath, M. Lyons, L. Ellis, M. Lambin, A. Ewing.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Miss S. Moran. .	OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses P. Gaynor, E. Lange.
3d Class—Misses B. Reynolds, M. O’Connor.
Tablet of Honor
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, A. Reising, B. Reynolds, A. Piet. H. Russel, M. Ewing, S. Moran, C. Boyce, C. Silverthorne, L. Keena, L. Kirchner, M. Luce, M. Danaher, L. Tighe, K. Riordan, E. Shaw, M. Halligan, M. Brown, T. Pleins, M. Wagner, K. Hackett, M. O’Neill, L. Schwass, F. Brazelton, L. Papin, M. Winston, S. Rheinboldt, M. Mullen, JI. Cleary, A. Farrell, T. Whiteside, L. Neu, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Harris, E. O’Neill, P. Gaynor, E. Lange, B. Wilson, A. Dopp, N. McGrath, N. Keenan, B. Thompson, M. Way, M. Casey, N. Davis, S. Hamilton, M. Birch, K. Barrett, F. Cregier, H. Millis, L. Otto, J. Winston, H. Buck, M. Plat, tenberg, A. Brown, L. Walsh, J. Burgert, K. Lloyd, C. Ortmeyer, B. Parrott, A. Woodin, M. Usselman, M. Hayes, O. Franklin, E. Wright, E. Miller, E. Thomas, J. Barnes.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses D. Gordon, ■ A. Kirchner, L. Chilton, A. Geiser, J. Kingsbury, L. Fox, M. McFadden, A. McGinnis, F. Sunderland, L. Van Namee, L. McFarland, E. Mulligan, M. Lyons, B. and T. Haney, M. Ivers, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Mulligan, A. Morgan, M. Lambin, E. Hackett, M. Hake, L. French, P. Felt.	.
JANSEN, McCLURG & co., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STREET, ' CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
A NEW DRAMA.
“THE UPSTART;”
A Comedy in Three Acts, adapted from the French of Moliere’s
LE BOURGEOIS GENTILHOMME,
and arranged for Male Characters only,
By A. J. STAGE; and Edited by JOSEPH A. LYONS.
This play is dedicated to the Members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association,—the former, present and yet to be.
Price 25 Cents.
“The Upstart” has been played at Notre Dame a number of times. Pairls in this drama have been taken by Messrs. Berdel, Dodge, Ashton, Roberts, Foote, Dwyer, Wile, Foley, W. Dodge, Clarke, Mahony, Staley, Dum‘ Hutchings, Cochrane, Spillard, Nash, McHugh, Brown, Reilly, McGinnis, McOsker, Rumely, Goodhue, Shanks, Hunt and others. Hence	-	.
Every Member of the St. Cecilia Philomathean
Association,
PAST AND PRESENT,
should procure a copy.
gsT” Sent post free on receipt of price.
P. FOX, Publisher,
14 SOUTH FIFTH ST.,
ST. KO L IS, KO.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attornevs at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BROWN «fc IIABVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpiIOMAS B. CEIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. B. Cor. Clark and Randolph Sts., Chicago, 111.
JOHN EY AIcTITJGU [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J„ Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CTIAYIDEILJUAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, S3 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’63), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
\ A 7 1LLIA JMC J• CL A RKE (of ’74). Attorney at Law,
V V Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus, O.
JAMES A. O’REILLY—of ’69.—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Time Table-June 34, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	9 23 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		10 46 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 am
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 35 “	4 05 “		12 50 a.m	4 55.“
Ar. Detroit		6 25 “	6 30 “		3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	3 15 p.m	9 50 p.m	6 05 p.m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m	6 10 “	2 45 a.m	9 30 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	9 CO “	12 53 “	12 16 a.m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	7 00 a.m	4 24 “	2 35 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 10 “	5 47 “	4 05 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 30 "
Niles and Soutlx Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 30 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 37 “	6 35 “ Ar. Niles— 910 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N, Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Ill.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
OM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of’61], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
rpIIE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, pub’ished _L weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clares, of ’70.
THE AVE M ARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by.a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, §2.50.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND EEBAED, published weekly by Chas. Murray <fc Co, (T. A.'Dailey, of ’74) §1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was putlnto my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1,500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections are labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.

GIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodins, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
r I iLiE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-_L igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, III. All _Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Number of Specimens
25	50	100
inbox inbox inbox
Crystals and fragments....	§ 50 §1 §1 50
Students’ size, larger....	1 50	3	6
Amateur’s size, 2% in. x 1%..................
High Schoo] or Acad, size, 2^x3 J4 in. shelf specimens
College size, 3%x6 in., shelf specimens......
100
§ 1 5 10 25 500
200 300
S 2
10
25
50
100
§ 3
25
50 100 300
Visiting Cards.
CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZitJ neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association .for the Advancement of Scienc Life Member of the Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sde-ences and of the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park, New York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
159
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	"
GOING EAST.
2 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 33 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 50 p m; Cleveland 10 30 pm; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 IO pm. Special New York Express,! over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 10 56 p m; Cleveland 144 am; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
O 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40 a m; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05 p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
fj 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 20 a m.
4= 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago, 11 30 a. m.
8 4=5 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’I Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’I Supt.
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED T1NLJE TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No. 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 P.M. 12.53 “ 3.10 A.M. 4.46 " 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.30 “ 440 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “ 5.35 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,	 Lima,	 Ft.Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.45 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 A.m. 6.30 “	9.55 p.m. 11.15 “ 1225 a.m. 2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “		
GOING EAST.				
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive	9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6 55 “ 8 55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M. 248 “ 4.25 “	
Crestline	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,		 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.30 “ 4.05 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.21 A.M. 2.30 “	1.40 A.M. 205 “ 3.40 “ 5.03 “ 69	“ 70 p.m.	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. BUYERS, G. P. & T. A.
ZP-A-TZRTOS: ‘SHICKEY,
rBOEjnETOB OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE!
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Muy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CL ARK ST., opposite Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIG-AIRS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,’’
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND
TOWLE & ROPEB, wholesale dealers in CIGARS 5 TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, .	-	- TTiTiTZTOIS.
send for price list.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks,
J Hl WELR Y. )f Engraving* Done.
All Kinds
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
M. Livingston & Co.,
ABE TSH
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 91 MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND,
160
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
(One Milo West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED B¥ THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. AU the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. * Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction. '
' Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution. -
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirements of the day. and furnished with all modern improvements. Every portion of the building is heated” by steam, and hot and cold baths'are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charmng seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.'
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at bothjwhen they visit their sons and daughters
For farther particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentv-Secoad Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1877-8, or address
St. Mary’s Academy,
‘	Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison,connccting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to Califoi’iiin.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m.	3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation................... 5	00	p.m.	9 35	a.m.
Night Express........................10	00	p.m.	6 50	a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE, ’
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
C. & N..W, LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its	'
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and Tor Madison, St; Paul, Minne apolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its .
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	‘
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Free-' port, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE ’
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
arc run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to .	_
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KA^SAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo', West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City - nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo........3 40 pm 12 30 pm Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm -12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-ebed, coal-house young trees,grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For farther information, address P. O. Box 35, No. Notre Dame, Ind.	.	•

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
INDIANTA.
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advance, ment of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken-by those students whose time is limited.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C-, Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.