Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disoe quasi semper vlcturus; vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 15, 1877.
Number 3.
To E. G.
On the Death of Little Gelsomina.
"Be strong, and He shall comfort thine heart."
i.
Happy little Gelsomina, Blessed child of Paradise, Like a tiny fresh-piuek’d flower, Blossom of a morning hour, Wafted gently to the skies.
ii.
Never cloud of care or sorrow
Dimm’d her fair young innocence,
—Wherefore mourn the joyous creature ? Naught of evil now can reach her, Sheltered hy Omnipotence.
in.
Wear her image, weeping brother, Evermore upon thy breast:
Into Life’s corrupt arena Take the thought of Gelsomina, Like a lily pure and blest.
iv.
Wheresoe’er the future lead thee, Whatsoe’er thy lot may be, (Far from those whose hearts have miss’d her) Ever keep thine angel-sister
Close and closer still to thee.
v.
With her pure eyes looking on thee, In thy soul no sin shall lurk ;
In thy rest and in thy labor
Thou shalt serve thy God, thy neighbor, Pure in thought and word and work.
vi.
Ever striving to be worthy Of that angel-sister fair, When the ties of earth are riven, Thou shalt happy be in heaven, Meeting Gelsomina there!
Eleanor C. Donnelly. Philadelphia, Aug. 25th, 1877.
Grasshoppers.
When during the hot days of summer we pass through fields and flowery meadows and hear in the fresh grass and the waving corn the grasshoppers singing from morning to night, we hardly think that under the frail shape of these little insects there is a human soul hidden so particularly favored by fortune that they can live on singing without ever experiencing either hunger or thirst. It is true that naturalists say nothing in their books about the wonderful existence of these privileged souls, so that one may almost venture
not to believe it, but we find the statement in history, coming from the Greeks, whose lively imaginations clad in poetic garb the mysteries of nature. And if La Fontaine, who is also a great authority in such matters, seems to contradict them on this point in his fable where the grasshopper comes crying with hunger to his neighbor the ant, this must undoubtedly come from the fact that at the time he wrote this fable, which is, as we know, the first of his collection, he did not yet know Plato and so many other trustworthy authors who have so admirably related and embellished the history of the grasshopper.
In the Phaedrus of Plato we find Socrates and Phaedrus, his young friend, entertaining themselves on the tufted grass at the source of the Ilissus, in the shade of flowering trees which embalmed the air with their perfume. It was a charming and solitary place, where the silence was only interrupted by the animated song of the grasshopper. Socrates had already read, discussed upon at length, and partly refuted an oration of Lysias, and the hour had come for repose. It was midday, and the heat invited sleep. Socrates, however, entered into a discussion on the form of Lysias’ discourse. “We have time,” said Socrates; “ and, besides, do you not hear the grasshoppers sing, as they generally do when conversing, above our heads ? Be sure that they see us, and note our actions; and if they saw us sleepingin the middle of the day, as many people do, and through want of occupation yield to the influence o f their somniferous voices, they could with reason laugh at our laziness, taking us for slaves'that had come to their asylum to sleep near the fountain, like sheep taking their rest in the middle of the day. But if they see us continue our entertainment, without letting ourselves be lulled by their voices, perhaps they will reward us with the gifts which the gods have granted them to bestow upon men.” Phaedrus then asked what these gifts were, for he had never heard of them, and Socrates continued: “A lover of the muses should not ignore their history. It is said that before the birth of the muses the grasshoppers were men. When the muses came into the world to teach men the art of singing, many of them were seized by such a passion for song that they lost the sentiment of life, and died without even perceiving it After their death they were changed into grasshoppers, and under this new form received Wn the muses the privilege of living without nourishment. Hence it comes that the grasshoppers sing, without either drinking or eating, from the moment of their birth until the end of their lives. After this they go to rejoin the muses, and make known to them those by whom each of them had been honored on earth. ........These, then, are sufficient reasons why we should continue our conversation rather than give way to slumber. Therefore let us continue.”
But as some may question this account, and look upon it
34
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
as a mere fable, a story from a crackbrained philosopher, I would answer them that Plato was not a fool, and that his story was but the expression of a truth believed by all the Greeks. They always considered the grasshoppers as having a close relation to the muses, and found their greatest delight in their music. They preserved them in jars and in small cages for the pleasure of hearing them sing, and there is mention made of a monument which had been erected in Locconia to the beauty of the grasshoppers’ song, with an inscription descanting on the merits thereof. Even old Homer compares the sage old men of Troy, seated at the Scaean gates, to grasshoppers, on account of the sweetness of their eloquence. And Plato, at the beginning of his Phaedras, says: “By Juno, what a charming restingplace! let us taste a little of the good air which we here breathe; how charming and sweet! We hear as it were the hum of summer, the harmonious murmur which accompanies the choirs of grasshoppers.” And Anacreon, the famous lyric poet of Teos, who has been admired by every age and country for the uncommon sweetness and elegance' of his poetry, has consecrated one of his most beautiful odes to the grasshopper, saying so many good and wonderful things of it that we cannot but give the ode in full, as it has been translated by Thomas Bourne:
Happy insect! all agree .
None can be more bless’d than thee; Thou, for joy and pleasure born, Sipp’sc the honey’d dew of morn.-Happier than the sceptred king,	■
’Slid the boughs we hear thee sing.
All the seasons’ varied store, All thy little eyes explore,	-
Fruits that tempt, and flowers "that shine, Happy insect! all are thine.
Injuring nothing, blamed by none, Farmers love thee—pretty one ! All rejoice thy voice to hear Singing blithe when summer’s near. Thee the tuneful muses love, Sweetly chirping in the grove;
Thee the great Apollo bless’d With a voice above the rest. Thou from wasting age art free, Time has naught to do with thee. Skilful creature, child of song, Though to earth thou dost belong, Free from nature’s woes and pains, Free from flesh, or blood-filled veins, Happy thing ! thou seem’st to me Almost a little god to be!
And this ode also, exaggerated as it may seem, expresses clearly the popular veneration which the grasshoppers enjoyed in olden times. The Athenians especially regarded them as a sign of nobility, and all those who boasted the antiquity of their race and pretended to be autochthones, that is to the manor born, wore a golden grasshopper in their hair. The Locrians had their coins stamped with the figure of a grasshopper. It was fabled that the bank of the river where Locri was situated was remarkable for the abundance of grasshoppers and their delicious music, whereas on the opposite bank, where Rhegium was situated, they were never heard. A popular fable pretended that Hercules one day, wishing to sleep on that side of the stream, was so tormented by their continual noise that he burst out in imprecations against them and obtained from the gods that they should never sing on that bank any more. The rest of the Greeks, however, were gifted with a finer
taste, and could better appreciate beautiful music. Among them the grasshopper had become the emblem of music, and was represented a sseated on the guitar. When Eunome and Ariston one day contested with each other for the prize on this instrument, and a string was broken on Eunome’s guitar, a grasshopper placed itself on the instrument and replaced the missing string with such skill and success that Eunome obtained the victory. The Egyptians also traced the figure of a grasshopperin their hieroglyphs to represent music.
The Latins are a little more moderate in their estimation of the grasshoppers. They held their song in a rather middling esteem, and found in it but a hoarse and disagreeable sound. Virgil cries out in his Bucolics: “ And the noisy grasshoppers will shake the shrubs by their song.” The greater the heat of the day, the livelier and more continued is their lay. This is precisely the time when the reapers quit their work to take their meals and repose. The more then, so the ancients used to say, they saw men laughing, drinking, and singing, the better were they pleased, and with the greater vivacity redoubled their song. Virgil alludes to this hour of the grasshoppers’ concert, when he says in his second eclogue: “Even the cattle pant after the shades and cool retreats; now the stormy brakes shelter even the green lizards; and Thestylis pounds the garlic and wild thyme, strong scented herbs for the reapers spent with the violent heat. But to the hoarse grasshoppers in company with me the thickets resound, while under the scorching sun I trace thy steps.” Such then was the opinion which the ancients held of the grasshopper.
The Latins may not have been so forward in admiring them, but still they hold them worthy of notice, and mention them as adding to the beauty of nature. In Greek authors not less than twenty passages are found expressive of the greatest admiration for the divine insect. If after this account, and all these quotations, anyone should still refuse to believe in the wonderful origin and existence of the grasshopper, and its relation with men and the sacred choir of the muses, I must give up, having no further proof to present of the truth of my history. But if we take it for a fable, we must at least appreciate the beautiful invention and admire the elevated moral which it contains. Socrates mixes here with the religious belief of the populace his lofty and noble ideas on God, whose Eye, always open on men, sees their conduct and penetrates their thoughts. He teaches his fellow-men to constantly guard against yielding to evil temptations, as being always in the presence of this severe Judge of their actions. And these men of Greece, who were so passionately fond of music as to forget all concern for the necessaries of life, aud who so admirably portray the character of the true artist that lives but for his art, these men, I say, may so well be compared with the German monk, who, as the legend goes, listened' for a few minutes to the sweet melodies of a bird in the convent-garden and at his return did not recognize one single person in the monastery—his few minutes were a hundred years. The German legend expresses that state of revery in which the soul forgets itself, and, plunged and lost as it were in the enjoyment of earthly beauty, becomes the sport of the illusions of the senses and imagination. In the Greek fable, however, the song of the muses, which first taught men poetry and philosophy, is for them, in the ignorance in which they live, exiled from heaven and strangers upon earth, a consoling revelation of their divine origin and of the invisible beauties of heaven, their ancient
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	35
home, from which they had fallen and of which they had lost even the remembranc!. But as soon as they received back their memory and saw all those beiutiful things that delighted them before they had fallen to earth, they were yet penetrated by. a pleasure so pure, and at the same time so powerful, that they could not cease from contemplating it. They no longer see, no longer hear; the scenery of earth no longer charms them. Recollected in themselves, and entirely given up to the muses, that is to song, poetry and to philosophy, they are enraptured and truly enjoy the sight of heaven. For such is, according to the ideas of Plato, the explication of this popular myth, which, half religious and half philosophic, expresses with an admirable poesy the happiness of those who honor the muses, that is, who apply themselves to wisdom and the knowledge of the beautiful and true. And who does not see in this traditional tale of the ancients the consciousness which they had of the fall of their race, of the subsequent loss which they incurred, and of the great importance of one’s tending to the rehabilitation of the soul in her former dignity?
This beautiful tradition, then, is well worthy of our attention, and assuredly if Socrates were to come back upon earth and see the systems of the philosophers of our times and the verses of our poets, he surely would say that the grasshoppers, disregarded among us and without honor, have brought their complaints before the Muses, who, to punish our disregard, have withdrawn from us the gift of inspiration and luminous thought.	N.
J. Boyle O’Reilly.
Something over a year ago we published a critical notice of “ Songs from the Southern Seas,” and as many of dur readers mav desire some account of the life of the author of the work, we herewith give a sketch of his life which we take from a Boston paper entitled the Times.
The Boston Pilot mav fairly be said, taken altogether, to be the leading weekly newspaper in the city. It addresses and influences more people, circulates over a larger field, and has a greater revenue than any other weekly published in the city, not excepting any. So far as Boston alone is concerned, this statement of its position would not hold good, for its prosperity rests on national and, indeed, on international celebrity. It is an organ, and a powerful one. It represents the Irish people more fairly, probably, than any other newspaper published in America, and assuredly enjoys their support more largely than any competitor in the same field. It is not of the rampant, roaring type of Hibernian journals, whose sole stock in trade is blatant abuse of the hated Sassenach, and the advocacy of all sorts of wild, impracticable schemes for the conquest of Ireland and the annexation of Canada. It is a sober, sensible, high-toned, and dignified spokesman of Irish-American sentiment and opinion, and is an honor to the great race for whom it speaks. It has literary merits which put jt alongside the most intelligent journals of America, and not unfrequently its columns contain finely-written prose articles, bearing favorable comparison with any that find a place in the great newspapers of New York or London. In its poetic columns are constantly to.be found gems of song which, by their equal strength and grace, extort the tribute of wide quotation on both sides of the Atlantic. That the Pilot has’earned this enviable reputation is mainly
due to the talented man who occupies its editorial chair, and impresses on its pages from week to week the impress of his vigorous individuality. John Boyle O’Reilly is one of the most remarkable figures in the entire journalistic ilk of Boston. He was born at Dowth Castle, County Meath, Ireland, June 28,1844. His father, William David O’Reilly, was a distinguished mathematician and scholar, and was for thirty-five years master of the Netterville Institution, Dowth Castle, a British charitable institution; and his mother, Eliza Boyle, was a lady of fine -literary attainments, and a very near relative of Colonel John Allen, the patriot soldier of 1798, who ten years subsequently led his company of Yoltigeurs of the Irish Legion up the bloody breach at Astorga, and under a concentrated fire of two thousand men planted the tricolor of France on the ramparts of that important fortress.
He received a liberal education, which he improved by the most persistent self-culture. When a mere boy, he developed a taste for the newspaper profession, and became acquainted with the use of type and printer’s ink in the office of the Drogheda Argus. As a typo, he worked at the case in Dublin and various English cities. He had early mastered the art of short-hand writing, and varied his work as a compositor with reporting. When the Irish revolutionary movement of 1863 began, young O’Reilly was a compositor on one of the first-class English dailies. It was at this point that his patriotic impulses led him to take a step which may be said to have turned the whole current of his life into a new channel. He conceived the daring idea of enlisting in one of the crack royal regiments of the line, and, as a private in the ranks, sowing the seeds of mutiny among the soldiers. He accordingly returned to his native land and joined the Tenth Hussars, known by the historic name of “The Prince of Wales’s Own,” and at once set to work to propagate republican principles among his comrades. He worked so zealously that he became one of the first victims of the informer’s skill.
He was tried in the summer of 1866, convicted, and sentenced to penal servitude for life. Subsequently this sentence was changed to a twenty years’ term. During the last six months of 1866, and the greater part of the year following, he was an inmate of different convict prisons in England, working in the chain-gang, with all the accompanying humiliation of a felon’s treatment. In November, 1867, he sailed for the convict settlement in West Australia —one of England’s many Siberias—ns one of a batch of . three hundred and forty condemned prisoners. On board this vessel, crowded with doomed men, he again discovered his love for the pen, which with him is certainly mightier than the sword. In company with one of his fellowvoyagers he issued a weekly paper which bore the unique name of The W Goose, and published seven numbers of this curious journal before the ship reached the Antipodes^ early in January of 1868. On landing he was put to work as member of a gang of roadmakers, and endured all the . hardships of convict life until the 18th of February, 1869, when the wheel of his fortune took another, and for him lucky, whirl. On that day he managed to obtain a boat through the kindly offices of good friends, and made good his escape to the open sea. There he had a narrow escape from death by starvation, but just in the nick of time, when death was literally staring him in the face, he was picked up by Captain David R. Gifford, of the whaler GazeUe, belonging to the port of New Bedford and bqpnd to the Cape of Good Hope. Captain Gifford treated
36
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the daring fugitive with great hospitality, and on land ing him at the Cape of Good Hope advanced him §100 to assist him on his way to America, whither he had now decided to go. Taking passage at the Cape for England, he found himself in October, 1869, once more on English soil, under very risky circumstances. Leaving Liverpool at once, he reached Philadelphia on the 18th of November, 1869, in the sailing ship Bombay, having prudently avoided taking passage on one of the great steamships, all of which are vigorously watched as they leave the other side for fugitives from the law. On this soil a new career was ready for him, but not until he had undergone some hard struggles. He made for New York, and arrived there without money, knew not a soul in the city, and had no clothes save the rough suit which had served him in his adventurous voyaging across the two oceans. He applied, without success, to the New York newspaper editors for employment as a shorthand-writer. He eventually managed to find a market for a sketch and some poems’ the proceeds whereof enabled him to purchase more presentable apparel. He then procured Cooper Institute for an evening, and delivered an address to the Irish Nationalists, and his receipts for this effort were enough to suport him in his continued quest for work. On the 3d of January, 1870, he entered Boston, with a small valise, and about thirty dollars in money. Again he was, for a time, unable to join the grand procession of workers, and was glad, for awhile, to obtain a small situation in the office of one of the large steamship lines. In May of that year the Fenians organized their raid on Canada, arid John Boyle O’Reilly got his first chance to .show his powers as a journalist in the capacity of a correspondent, from the Canadian border, of the Pilot. For a short time after the capture of O’Neill he led the Irish forces, and himself barely escaped capture. His letters to the Pilot displayed remarkable talent, and soon after his return to Boston he became the editor of the paper. His direction of its policy has amply justified his selection for the post. If the paper first lifted him into luck, he has since lifted it into fame and made it the success it is. As is pretty well known, Mr. O’Reilly is a poet of no mean order, and many of his lyric productions will, unless most competent critics are mistaken, outlast their first transitory fame and live permanently in liter ature. It is worth mentioning that one of the most select of English magazines, the Dark Blue—Anca deceased— accepted several poems from his pen. The Dark Blue was a Tory monthly, deep dyed in loyalty and conservatism, and when its editors found that they had admitted a convicted rebel to their list of contributors it is said they were highly incensed. One volume of his poems was published by Roberts Bros, in 1873, entitled “Songs from the Southern Seas,” and is full of beautifully drawn pictures in verse, inspired evidently from his adventurous life on the other side of the world. A few months ago Mr O’Reilly became part owner as well as editor of the Pilot. A more eventful career falls to the lot of few journalists. Within eleven rapid flying years he has served the queen as a private dragoon, worked on Australian roads as a convict, labored at the compositor’s case, as a reporter, a lecturer, a poet, and finally emerged as the editor and owner of a large and profitable newspaper.
The Boston Pilot was founded forty years ago by Patrick Donahoe, and was launched as a paper for the Irish people m Boston. Mr. Donahoe was a practical printer, and worked on the) Transcript before he ventured- upon
this enterprise. The paper grew steadily from the start, and in the course of twenty years reached its present quarto size and a world-wide circulation. The circumstances connected with the change of the Pilot's ownership from Mr. Donahoe to its present proprietors, Archbishop Williams and Mr. O’Reilly, are too recent and fresh in the public recollection to need rehearsal here. The Pilot of to-day is a vastly superior sheet to that of twenty or even ten years ago. It is not fairly described to-day when it is called exclusively an Irish or a Catholic paper. It is rather an Irish-American newspaper, while, as to its religious hue, its columns are open and are frequently used by Protestant writers. It differs from the purely Irish papers in this important particular, that its policy is never at variance with the fundamental principles of American government, and all its arguments are strictly within the lines of the Constitution. It is a paper which does not outrage our national sentiment, and is read with pleasure by many Americans as well as Irishmen. It has been the aim of Mr. O’Reilly to bring to its columns distinguished Irish writers from all parts of the world. It has contributors literally in all the four quarters of the globe. Among the best known names of the writers in the Pilot are those of Lady Wilde, Alfred Percival Graves, and Percy Fitzgerald of London, and Gavan Duffy of Australia (for some time Governor of one of the English colonies there).
Ils success is therefore the result of an accident, but is fairly proportioned to its high standard of excellence as a newspaper and as a literary weekly. It has well earned the commendation of its contemporaries, and the general opinion will sustain the verdict of a writer in the Daily Advertiser who epitomized its merits by calling it “the best influence with the Irish in America.”
SehiHer’s Ode on the Bell.
One of Schiller’s most remarkable compositions is his “ Ode on the Casting of the Bell.” In this grand and beautiful ode, philosophical ideas are happily combined with the spontaneous movements of inspiration. It, is a variegated tableau, where everything is painted in a plastic form. Various painters have drawn inspiration from this poem, illustrating it with admirable intelligence, while men of genius have transferred it into their own languages; but painters and writers have but copied and imitated, while Schiller remains herein unsurpassed that he has invented the whole.
Around the furnace from which the bronze is about to pour forth into the mould prepared for it, the master gathers his workmen, and with words full of hope calls upon them to be ready for their work. At the thought of the bell soon to be founded, he recalls to mind all the emotions that the sound of the bell calls forth from the bottom of the heart, and goes through, one after the other, the different scenes of life in which the bell sounds as a song of joy or as a hymn of complaint and sorrow.
It is the bell which celebrates with its harmonious sounds the day when the infant comes into the world and reposes in the arms of slumber. For him good and bad fortune is yet concealed under the veil of the future, and the solicitous tenderness of a mother watches over his golden morning. But years fly on with the rapidity of a flash, and with pride the boy leaves the circle of the young. Impetuous, he precipitates himself into the storms and turmoils of life. With his walking-cane in his hand he meas-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
37
ures the world, and then, returning a stranger to his fatherly-hearth there beholds a young girl graced with all the splendor of her age, timid and vigorous, like unto an image of heaven. Then an unspeakable desire arises in his heart; he shuns the boisterous sports to follow the traces . of her who now is his only desire, his tenderest and sweetest hope. Soon he leads her to the altar, and it is again the bell that anounces to his friends this union so longed for. King of his household and father of a family, he is seriously concerned in the welfare of those that surround r him. He tills his fields and prepares his harvest, whilst his sedulous spouse manages the household. Success crowns their efforts; the sun ripens their corn; the horses bring home wagons heavily l^den with grain, and the trees are bending under the burdens of their fruits.
But alas 1 alas! when in the midst of this increasing prosperity, suddenly the bell sends forth a sinister sound; its wild alarm calls the inhabitants of the village to the assistance of those at the farm-house, which is being consumed by fire. In the thick shades of night are to be seen the huge tongues of fire which have already devoured a whole house and threaten ruin all around. The poor father of the family beholds with anguish the ruins of his fortune. But, still, in the midst of this disaster one consolation is left him: he counts the heads of those that were dear unto him and, behold! there is not one wanting.
But a new calamity awaits him. From the heights of the church-tower the bell sighs heavily and sounds a requiem; ■ its complaining sounds accompany a pilgrim to his last 5 repose. Alas! it is a cherished spouse, it is a well-beloved mother whom the dreadful queen of the shades has snatched from the arm of her husband and from the midst of her children, so oft carried on her heart and whom she
• . saw with sweet smiles grow up about her. The bonds of this family are forever broken, for the mother of it has departed for another world; her assiduous cares and her .	vigilant watchings will always be regretted, and the stranger
who is to replace her, to take charge of the orphan children, will bring no joy when entering the house,—she is with out affection, she is not the mother.
After these scenes of sorrow the bell strikes again and awakens a peaceful feeling in the heart. How sweet ■ its sound in the evening, in the silence of the valley, when the hour of rest approaches, or on Sundays, when it calls the inhabitants of the village to the church; but what a dreadful sound, when the lion of discord breaks out in the heart of cities, and when the people, breaking | their chains, arm to defend themselves. Then the rebellious take hold of the bells and give them a sound of terror. The metal consecrated to peace and harmony becomes the instrument of force. Liberty, equality! such is the cry that resounds from all quarters. The villager . takes up his arms, the crowd invades the streets and public places, and bands of rebels go out in every direction. “ Dangerous it is to awaken the lion; terrible is the tooth of the tiger, but the most terrible of terrors is man in his fury.”
* Come up, come up, companions! let us baptize the bell and give it the name Concordia! Let it assemble the community in peaceable and affectionate reunions. High above the turmoils of the earth, let her in the regions of thunder proclaim the praises of the Creator, and let her metal mouth, though senseless itself, accompany the
< changing scenes of life and so realize her motto: Vivos voco; Mortuos plango; Futgurafrango.	N.
Scientific Notes.
—Prof. Frederick Wahlgren, who has occupied the chair of zoology for twenty years in the University of Lund, died during the month of J une, in his fifty-eighth year.
—The papers relating to the transit of Venus, as observed by the British observer, are now in the hands of the printers, and it is hoped that it will not be very long before they are published.
—There was a volcanic eruption in Ecuador June 26th. The eruption was accompanied by an enormous and destructive flood of mud and water which swept down the rivers Cutuchi, San Felipe, and Yanayao.
—Prof. Marsh, in continuation of his investigation of the fossil remains of the Rocky Mountains, announces a new genus and species of toothed bird, which he calls Baptomis adnenus, basing it upon a tarso-metatassal bone.
—The Central Pacific Railroad Company are doing a good work in tree-planting, having purchased forty thousands Eucalyptus trees to plant along the line of their road. Let other institutions follow the example and improve the climate of the different States. •
—The last eclipse of the moon, which occurred August 23-24, attracted considerable notice among physicists and aeronauts in France. A balloon ascent was made during the night to ascertain whether independently of clouds the eclipsed moon has a bloody tinge.
—The scientific press of Paris lost one of its most useful and respected members in the person of Dr. Henry Mon-tiucci, a G-erman by birth, but a Frenchman by naturalization. He was the author of several scientific works, the last of which is “ Theory of Progress.”
—In the famous Kathkeller of Bremen visitors are shown wine which is over 1600 years old. The celebrated French chemist, Berthelot, recently exhibited to his colleagues in the French Academy of Sciences some wine about 1600 years old, and he even succeeded in extracting the alcohol from it.
—Some weeks ago two living specimens of the Colorado beetle were found in the Liverpool docks. They were transported along with some fodder which was taken aboard for the maintenance of cattle transported to England. They were picked up and given for identification to Mr. Moore, of the Free Library and Museum. Credit is due to that same gentleman for the promptitude with which he at once telegraphed to the Privy Council the occurrence of both these specimens. It is only by such prompt co-operation that the Privy Council can expect success in their efforts to exclude this dreaded pest.
Art, Music and Literature.
—“His Grandmothers” will be John Habberton’s next.
—Hon. A. G. Riddle has completed a comedy in five acts based upon society at Washington.
—M. Camille Saint-Saens will write an opera, “Etienne Marcel,” for next winter’s season in Lyons.
—A horrible instrument called a “ Dactylomonocordo,” of one string, and played with one finger, has been invented by Guida, of Naples. It appears to be a sort of guitar.
—FAe Dublin University Magazine for September will contain a biographical sketch from original sources, of Henry Irving, illustrated with a “ permanent cabinet photograph ” of the distinguished tragedian.
—A work with the title of “ Illustrious Irishwomen,” by Miss Owens Blackburne, has been issued in England. It will contain the true story of the Ladies of Llangollen, taken from the original letters and diaries now in the possession of the family.
—The pupils of the Japanese Academy of Fine Arts at Tokio have learned to paint in the European style, after only seven months’ instruction by European professors, during which course they produced 1,500 clever works now on exhibition.
—The German singing societies of San Francisco purpose having a grand Stengerfest the latter part of this month,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
j	to which competitors from all parts of the country are to be
’	invited. It will be the first SaSngerfest held on the other side
*	of the Rocky Mountains.
—A curious periodical is projected by the Historical ;	society of Berlin. The Fortschritteder Geschichte is to ap-,
;	pear at intervals of years, containing an account of all that |
;	has been done in the field of history, and a criticism of the
]	general progress of historical study.
’	—The statue of Gen. Philip Kearny, ordered by the
1	State of New Jersey and meant for the Capitol at Wasb-
ington, remains in an out-of-the-way niche in the State
;	House at Trenton, where it was placed when finished.
■	No one seems to care what becomes of it.
'■	—The Society of St. Gregory, which was formed in
New York last winter under the presidency of Rev. A. Young, C. S. P-, and vice-presidency of Rev. J. P. Trucg, O. S. B., and which has for its object the cultivation of Gregorian Chant, is meeting with much success.
■,	—A marble bust which has been at Hoikham Hall, the
;	property of the Earl of Leicester, since the middle of last
century, has ju=t been identified by Prof. Michaelis of Strasburg, as a portrait of Thucydides; more than that, as a ;	much finer portrait of the historian than the only hitherto
■	known example in Naples.
—The Gazette of Cincinnati, glorying over the success of Theodore Thomas in that city, says: “ Cincinnatians don’t do things by halves, as has been abundantly proved in the past If there is on record an instance in which t	fifteen concerts in succession have been patronized by an
average of 4,000 people each, and this, in the present case, is unexaggerated fact, a reference would be timely and interesting.”
—The London correspondent of the Dublin Freeman i	says:—“I have been informed that Dr. Newman and sev-
eral other eminent divines have been asked to undertake a new English translation of the Holy Scriptures to replace /	the Douay version, which is couched in an excessively
Latinized style. Dr. Newman is widely known as au in-;	comparable master of pure English, and to no better hands
could this most important work be entrusted.
—The Council of the Society for the Preservation of the Irish Language have received an earnest letter and a subscription of £100 from his Grace the Archbishop of Tuam in support of their project. The Archbishop complains of ‘	the exclusion of the study of the Irish tongue from the Na-
tional schools, and explains it. The Irish language and literature are so interwoven with Catholic spirit that no British Government ever yet cared to encouiage a revival or even a preservation from total disuetude.
—The recent death of the grandson and last male relative of the poet Schiller has led to the statement that '	there is not now living a'single descendant in the male line
1	of Chaucer, Shakespeare, Spenser, Milton, Cowley, Butler,
Dryden, Pope, Cowper, Goldsmith, Scott, Byron, Moore, Sir Philip Sidney, Sir Walter Raleigh, Drake, Cromwell, Hampden, Monk, Marlborough, Peterborough, Nelson, Stafford, Ormond, Clarendon, Addison, Swift, Johnson, .	Walpole, Bolingbroke, Chatham, Pitt, Fox, Burke, Grat-
I	tan, Canning, Bacon, Locke, Newton, Davy, Hume, Gibbon,
I	Macaulay, Hogarth, Sir Joshua Reynolds, David Garrick,
i	or Edmund Kean.
,	—The musical arrangements for the Universal Exhibi-
tion of 1878, in Paris, will be of more than ordinary interest, as the Minister of Public Instruction and of the Fine Arts has issued a decree for performances to exemplify Art in its highest forms, composition, and execution; for which purpose a Commission has been nominated, under the Presidency of M. Thomas, Principal of the Conservatoire; amongst the names of the members are those of MM.
1	Gounod, Jules Cohen, Deldevez, Dubois, Guilmant, Guiraud,
‘ Halanzier, Massenet, Saint-Saens, Weckerlin, and the lead-
■	ing members of the Academy of Fine Arts. The sum of
;	250,000 francs (§50,000) has been assigned to meet the out-
:	lay for what is intended to be a musical exhibition on the
I	grandest scale. The concerts will take place in a vast sa-
!	loon of the edifice now being erected on the heights of the
!	Trocadero. The Exposition is not to be exclusively French,
I	it is to be essentially international as regards music, and
i	foreign composers are to be invited to confer with the Com-
mission as to competition and as to the acceptance of works already written.
Books and Periodicals.
—The September number of Brainard's Musical World is on our table, and contains the usual forty pages of choice new music and interesting musical reading. No one interested in music can afford to be without the Musical World. The publishers offer to send it this month, from September, 1877, to January, 1879, for the yearly subscription price— §1.50. This will give the subscriber four months/?’^, and is a rare chance to secure a large amount of elegant new music at a trifling cost. Send for sample copy, or remit §1.50. to S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland, Ohio, and receive the World sixteen months'postpaid, containing over §30. worth of music and an immense amount of interesting matter.
—We have received the sixth number (for September) of The Penman's Art Journal, a publication devoted to the practical and the ornamental in penmanship. It is published monthly by D. T. Ames, Editor and proprietor, from 205 Broadway, New York, at §1 a year. The Penman's Art Journal seems now to have become a thoroughly established fact, and provides an excellent medium of communication between penmen. Taking the present number as a sample, it is evidently edited by one who understands his business, who is not only a calligraphist himself, but who also knows how to get up matter for a really interesting paper for bis brother penmen. The low price of subscription should secure it a large circulation.
Catechism of Christian Doctrine for Academies and High ■
Schools. With the Approbation of Most Rev. J. Roosevelt Bayley, D. D., Archbishop of Baltimore. Intermediate No. III. St Louis, Mo.: Benziger Brothers, Printers to the Holy Apostolic See. 1877.
The series of Catechisms prepared by Rev. M. Muller, C. SS. R., has already achieved a success worthy the name and learning of the Rev. author. It has received the approbation of the Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith, and has been introduced with the consent of many Bishops into several schools and academies throughout the country. Thoroughly Catholic, Father Muller seeks to make pupils like unto himself, and this he does in a plain, popular manner, devoid of all affectation or conceit. ■ -
The Standard Arithmetic. In Two Numbers. By James E.
Ryan. New York: The Catholic Publication Society.
■ This work is exceedingly practical and concise, and has evidently proceeded from the brain of a live 'teacher. The suggestions to teachers are in themselves a valuable lesson for the whole fraternity. In the bands of a good teacher, who is himself a student, as every teacher should be, this Arithmetic will be found worthy of all praise; but for a teacher who is himself at all deficient, or tor an indolent teacher, this is a very unsuitable work. It is too brief for such teachers, lacks that fulness of explanation and illustration which, renders an abstruse subject clear to the ordinary mind. For the same reason it is not suited to the wants of a student who is dependent upon himself. It is a good work in the hands of a good instructor.
A Full Catechism of the Christian Religion, (preceded by a Short History of Religion,) from the Creation of the World to the Present Time. With Questions for Examination. Translated from the German of the Rev. Joseph Deharbe, S. J., by the Rev. John Fander. Revised, with Additions, by an American Ecclesiastic. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, 9 Barclay Street. 1877.
Deharbe’s Catechism has been before the public for many years, and has met with general favor not only in Germany but also in England and America. In Germany it is the standard Catechism used in most of the colleges, gymnasiums and academies,and in the higher classes in the German Schools of this country. This English edition of the work might be introduced into the higher schools and accomplish much. good. It is in truth an excellent work, elegantly written, and interesting to the pupil. We would be delighted were the publishers to issue Deharbe’s larger work for the use of teachers. It is a matter
$HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	39
of regret that we have in the English language no large catechisms for teachers, such as Deharbe’s, Guillois’, Gaume's and other standard works possessed by the German and French Catholics. We understand that Rev. J. AI. Toohey, of Cincinnati, Ohio, has the whole of Deharbe’s larger Catechism translated, and we know of no one who could do it better.
The Grammar School Speller and Definer: Embracing graded Lessons in Spelling, Definitions Pronunciations, and Synonymes; proper names and Geographical terms; a choice selection of sentences for dictation; and a condensed study of English Etymology. By E. D. Farrell. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Company.
We have no hesitation in pronouncing this a superior work. It is not only a spelling book, for the class-room, and one of the best that we have ever examined, but it is a useful companion for every one that reads, writes or speaks the language; and most students would find it of more value on their desk than even a dictionary. The book, however, needs close scrutiny on revision for future editions. The chief deficiency is in the means taken.to indicate pronunciation. A work that aims to do so much, should be more exact in this particular. It is not enough to mark the accented syllables. In cases of doubt the vowel sounds should be carefully indicated. This our author does not always do. How, for instance is an inexperienced pupil to know the correct pronunciation of the following names of places as marked iu this speller: Saha'ra, Neva'da, Chica'go. It is evident that the sound of the accented vowel should have been marked. In such cases as the following the correct pronunciation should be given in brackets: Reading, Antie'tam, Terire Haute, Bow'doin, for no one unacquainted with the places indicated could guess the true pronunciation. In the case of Terre Haute the accent itself is incorrectly placed. In some cases incorrect statements are made. Deaf, for instance, is correctly pronounced deef as well as def. There is no such titles as “ the Emperor of Prussia." Airs. Browning was a poet. John Lingard was a Catholic, but to call him the “ Catholic Historian ” of England is liable to make a false impression. As Daniel Webster said, he was the only impartial historian of England, Catholic or Protestant. It is not quite fair to stigmatize Edgar Allan Poe as a sensational writer, and mis-spell his name besides. But these are all minor faults, which can be easily corrected, while the plan and general execution of the work are worthy of high praise.
The Anglo-American Primer. Deziend tu teech a proper speling and Pronunsiashon ov the English Langwej, and ta serv az a direct gied tu the reeding ov ordinery English print. By Elieza Boardman Burnz.
Bully for Elieza! After a course of philosophy under Josh Billings we are competent to read her Primer, and,, we hope, also, to appreciate its merits. As she kindly informs us: “Reezon iz the coeheesiv power ov nolej, and reezon is hoeelly wonting in the prezent English orth'ografy.” Observe the Greek colon in the middle of “orth’ografy.” It is not, as the cursory reader might perhaps imagine, a delicate reminder that the word is of Greek origin, but it simply indicates that the th is to be sounded as in “ thin ”—a very proper word to select as an exemplification of the whole system. But why does she write “English” with an E? We all pronounce it with an I, as “ Elieza ” might have seen with half an I, but perhaps she thought it would look too egotistical. She does not want to be too radical, and she thinks she can carry out her peculiar views with the aid .of only two entirely new characters, for which she turns an m and an h upside down, so: in, q, to represent two sounds of the vowel u. She helps us out too, very considerably, with pictorial illustrations. There was a painter once who used to assist his admirers by writing under his pictures the names of the various things there represented, as “ This is a cow,” “ This is a rosebud,’’ etc., so that they might have no difficulty in distinguishing one from the other. Elieza pursues an analogous, though opposite method. She gives us pictures whose subjects can be recognized at sight, and then spells the names of the subjects in her own style below, so that there can be no mistake; although it beats us how “bulk” can spell “photograph album” or “cqb” “tea-chest,” even on the
most consummately digested, boiled down, and reduced method of phonotypy. Perhaps she meant to suggest a little pun with her tea-chest, like the man who once wrote “ tu dooes," and everybody wondered what mysterious lesson was intended to be conveyed. Elieza, I am afraid thou art a punster! Thou teachest us at least how differently our vowels sound to different ears. Thou spellest “ grass,” gras, iu a manner which implieth that its "vowel sound is the same as that in grab. We know there are those who think it stylish so to pronounce it. ‘Others there be who think it exquisite to call it “grauss,” but .the majority choose to preserve the happy mean. In fact, with regard to the prounciation of the English vowels, there is no way of determining what is the best. The Boston folks won’t give up their way, and they won’t endorse the fair Elieza,s “ orth'ografy.” And again. if she veers around to sui t them, New York will go back on her; and New Orleans will not uphold either. Circumstances of climate and education necessarily modify the vowel sounds in different parts of the country, and in matters of delicacy there is no “best usage.” Take the words “poor,” “pour,” “pore.” Some of our Southern friends pronounce all these alike. Around here, we pronounce “ pour ” and “ pore ” alike, but some highly educated persons contrive to give “pour” an intermediate sound between “poor’’and “pore.” We have heard them say it, and it’s very nice; if we could only all do it. It belongs properly to pulpit oratory, and it should be given slowly with a slight roll of the eyes, to afford the proper expression. The solemnity with which a word is uttered considerably modifies its vowel sounds. Those who read “ Paradise and the Peri ” with due sense of feeling, find the rhyme in the first two lines absolutely perfect, the rhyming words being “gate” and “disconsolate,” but our friend Elieza, if we interpret her system aright, would spell the latter word “ disconsolet ” and spoil the rhyme. We may, perhaps, wrong her; but she certainly does write “ aspiret.”
Elieza I one word before we part. Attend to your knitting, and don’t attempt to reform the spelling of the English language. Alany wiser heads than yours have labored uselessly in the same unprofitable field, and have had their labor for their pains. Old Webster compassed sea and land that he might cast the superfluous 1 out of “ traveller ” and it has got back again in spite of his efforts. If we can keep the kfrom getting back to the end of “ music” and “arithmetic” we shall do well, but I doubt it. I saw a Southern newspaper with “musick”and “arithmetick’’in the time of the war. They were determined to give way to no Northern innovations, and I shouldn’t wonder if they are keeping up the same old way down there yet.	S.
—The instability of equilibrium among forces brings in an element of uncertainty, or rather incalculability, which renders prediction extremely difficult in many fields of scientific investigation. Prof. Balfour Stewart, in a most instructive essay on “ Solar Physics,” gives us some illustrations of this. He supposes a stratum of air in the earth’s atmosphere to be very nearly saturated with aqueous vapor; that is to say, just a little above the dew-point; while at the same it is losing heat with extreme slowness, so that if left to itself it would be a long time before moisture were deposited. Now, such a stratum is in an extremely delicate state of molecular equilibrium, and the dropping into it of a small crystal of snow would at once cause a remarkable change of state. For what would happen? The snow would cool the air around it and thus moisture would be deposited in the form of fine mist or dew. Now, this deposited mist or de w being a liquid, and as such much more radiant than vapor, would send its heat into empty space much more rapidly than the saturated air; and therefore it would become colder than the air around it. Thus, more air would be cooled, and more mist or dew deposited; and so on until a complete change of condition should be brought about, resulting perh.tps in a shower of rain. Now, in this imaginary case, the tiniest possible flake of snow has pulled the trigger, as it were, and made the gun go off—has changed completely the whole arrangement that might have gone on for some time longer as it was, had it not been for the advent of the snow-flake.—George Iles, in Popular Science Monthly for June'	-	.
46
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, September 15, 1877.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and. of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Danae, Indiana.
Congregational Singing.
The congregational singing introduced at Notre Dame last year was a source of enjoyment to everybody whose’ fortune it was to attend Divine service here. Although it was simply intended as a beginning, it was sr successful that at the end of the scholastic year the students had acquired such proficiency that anyone not cognizant of the fact would have imagined it had been practiced for years and was no new thing here.
As is well known, the branch of music, vocal and instrumental, forms no mean portion of the lateral studies which the admirably arranged system at Notre Dame presents to such students as wish to take them up in connection with their regular studies. It is supplied with a corps of skilful teachers for the various instruments, who devote their attention to these exclusively, and if students do not become proficient musicians it must be either because they have not sufficient talent, because thejr do not apply themselves as they should, or because they devote themselves to other more practical studies and take music only as a recreation. Therefore, as may be supposed, among so many youths attending the College, there must be considerable vocal talent also more or less developed, but to utilize it for church services has heretofore been no easy task. Duty in such services being altogether voluntary, one or another might or might not attend, just as it suited him, and the'little sacrifices of recreation time required for practice proved a great bar to success. Therefore a sort of apathy gradually manifested itself, as few were willing at all times to devote even a small portion of recreation to vocal practice, and when congregational singing was introduced it was received rather coldly at first. Gradually, however, it began to develop in results, until in a few months it became quite popular, and the church resounded with the grand choral strains that filled it on Sundays and festivals. Indeed such was the success of
the movement, and so great were the good effects resulting from congregational singing, that the authorities have determined that under no circumstances will any other mode of singing the praises of God be allowed to usurp its place in the church here. Since it was then so popular, and evidently such a decided improvement on the singing of former years, it is to be hoped that the students will continue to join in singing the hymns and psalms prescribed by the liturgy of the Church at Mass and Vespers. Yet we would have them all remember that it is left to themselves; if they wish to sing, all right; if they do not wish to sing, they need not do so. There is no compulsion.
Singing in the church is a sort of vocal prayer iu which all who attend Divine service have a right to join, and when it is done in a proper spirit it is both pleasing to God and edifying to the people. Too long have the occupants of the organ-loft debarred the congregations of American churches from the privilege of joining in chanting the praises of God. The choirs of our churches have heretofore deprived the congregations of one of their highest privileges-but to judge from the signs of the times the people are awakening to their rights. No wonder, then, that this pious practice of singing the praises of God, used in the Catholic Church for centuries, is now reviving where it had been abandoned for a while, and introduced where heretofore it had never been in use. It is with feelings of great pleas ure we record the fact that some of the principal churches in the United States, as the Cathedrals in Baltimore and Boston, have lately introduced congregational singing. - The energetic Paulist Fathers have, we believe, for a long time past accustomed their congregation in New York toThis mode of singing, and it is the great aim of the Society of St. Gregory, established in New York last spring, and noticed by us several months ago, to foster the study of Gregorian Chant in order to bring into more general use this mode of singing the offices of the Church. We. trust that this Society may flourish, and that before long in all our churches hymns and canticles of praise may ascend to Heaven from the whole congregation, and the exclusive choir be known only as a thing of the past.
But that this may be brought about it is necessary to train the people; and how can this be done other than by accustoming children to it? Hence it is of the greatest importance that children in the parish schools should be educated in the sacred chant, and that students in colleges be taught to take part in the singing. This is what it is aimed to do at Notre Damp, and as it has become a matter of pleasure to the students we can have no fear for the result. If congregational singing was a success here last year, how much more so ought it not to be the coming one ? With the active co-operation of all concerned in the matter, we might naturally expect a success far exceeding that of last year, and such as may convince everyone that the'simple but beautiful melodies of the Ecclesiastical Chant are the best adapted to promote piety and devotion. Yet, as in everything else, a little earnest and persevering study is necessary to insure success, and we trust that the competent teachers appointed to instruct all who can and who desire to sing the praises of God in the manner most highly approved of by the Church herself will receive the encouragement their efforts deserve. It is but right that we should show our gratitude to God for the talents He has conferred upon us, and those who have been blessed with good voices should think it a great favor to be allowed to take part on earth in the songs of praise continually ascend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	41
ing from the heavenly hosts to Him who has made them what they are, and who has given us here below everything of good that we possess.
Heal Thyself.
of our own small vices ? Indeed all mankind have their faults, we among the rest, and if we but exercise a little charity towards others and severity towards ourselves? our little world will be made much happier, and we will succeed in endearing ourselves to the hearts of our comrades.
In order that a student may succeed in getting along well with his companions, it is necessary that he act in all things towards them as he would have them act towards him. This is the golden rule essential to the success of all men. and which must govern them in their conduct through life, College-life demands that it be filled to the letter. And more: in order that we may in all things suceeed in passing through college-life with serenity, making friends with all, and cultivating the kinder feelings of companions, we must study ourselves, and, having discovered our failings and weaknesses, endeavor to overcome them, or at least to avoid such occasions as would be likely to bring them into action.
If we do not study our own selves, and become acquainted with the weak points in our character, we can never'better ourselves or strengthen that character. If a . man is in ignorance that the seeds of consumption are in his lungs, how can he be expected to make any effort to work them out? It is only those who feel their sickness that endeavor by proper remedies to counteract it. So it is with us, if we do not discover what our weaknesses and failings are, we cannot make any effort to overcome them. And the fact is that most of us are blind to our bad points. We flatter ourselves that we are possessed of innumerable good qualities. We imagine that our dispositions are belter than those of any student on the campus, that our social qualities are perfect, and that if any misunderstanding occurs it is by no means our fault. But were we to seriously examine into ourselves, we would discover that we have our failings; that our disposition is not always the best, that we are wanting in those little social qualities which endear men one to another, and that our passions are too often allowed to attain a complete mastery over us.
It is true we may sometimes admit that we have these faults, but instead of seeking to overcome them we merely attempt to make apologies for them. These faults, we say, are a part of our nature. We were provoked, we were led away by anger, and if indeed we have not been as courteous as we should have been—if indeed we were rude, if we were annoying to our neighbor, if we idled away our time, it was because we followed the example set us by others. Alas! if we do but discover our faults only to excuse them, our self-examination is of but little use, and we will never succeed in gaining the mastery over them.
But while we are thus lenient to ourselves, what is our conduct in regard to our companions? If we discover in any of them a disposition in nowise mild, a hasty temper, and disagreeable manuer, we stand ready to condemn him. If his manner of acting is not precisely in accordance with our ideas, we are ready to form a rash judgment and condemn not only that which he does, but also his intentions. If then we are such severe judges of the acts of others why are we lenient to ourselves when we discover ourselves guilty of the very faults which we condemn in them, Ought we not to refrain from viewing the mote in our neighbor’s eye, and attend to the beam that is in our own ? Would not college days pass by more pleasantly to ourselves and companions, were we to be to our neighbor’s faults a little more forbearing, and endeavor to purge ourselves
Personal.
-—	/ '
—Wm. P. Breen, of ’77, is residing at Fort Wayne.
—James Caren, of’76, is in business at Columbus, Ohio.
—Thomas F Grier, of 75, is farming near Geneva Lake, Wis.
—Carl Otto, of ’77, is to attend the Law School at Harvard.
—T. A. Daly, of ’66, is practicing medicine at Rochester, N. Y.
—Thomas Murphy, of ’75, is teaching school at Ravenna, Ohio.
—Henry L. Dehner, of ’76, is teaching school at Cascade, Iowa.
—Edward S. Monaghan, of ’76, is farming near Louisville, Ky.	■
—John J. Gillen, of’76, has resumed his theological studies at Troy, N. Y.
—John D. McCormick, of ’73, is Mayor of the city of Lancaster, Ohio.
—Henry C. Cassidy, of ’77, is about to enter business at Youngstown, Ohio.
—Florian Devoto, of ’76, is teaching school at Ogden City, Utah Territory.
—Charles Walters, of ’75, completes his law studies at Fort Wayne, this year.
—Edward J. McLaughlin, of ’75, will be ordained, we learn, some time this month.
—Thomas F. Gallagher, of ’76, completes his law studies at Lynn, Mass., during the coming year.
—A. W. Arrington, of ’70, is practicing law in Chicago. He is in partnership with Hon. James Root.
—John F. McHugh, of’72, is practicing law at Lafayette, Ind. His advertisement may be seen in another column.
—M. B. Rafier (Commercial) of ’73, is one of the bookkeepers at Field, Leiter & Co.’s establishment, Chicago-Ui.	\
—James E. McBride, of ’68, whose advertisement appears in another column, is practicing law at Grand Rapids, Mich.
—N. S. Mitchell, of ’72, as may be seen by his advertisement in another column, is engaged in the practice of the law, at Davenport, Iowa.
—Wm. T. Ball, of ’77, has been spending the summer at Fruitport, Michigan. It is his intention to return to Chicago this fall and enter business.
—Among our visitors the past week were Mr. Charles Orr, Steubenville, O.; Mrs. Oliver Tong and daughter, Columbus, O.; Mr. J. Arautz, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Mr. Giddings and lady, South Bend; Mrs. Taylor, Burlington, Iowa; Mrs. A. Hazlett, Hudson, Mich.; Win. Hake, Grand Rapids, Mich.; John Vanvalkeuburg, Huntsville, Ala.
—Bro. Philip, who visited New York lately to arrange / with Mr. F. Pustet, the publisher, for the printing of his new series of German copy books, expresses himself highly pleased with the courteous manuer iu which he was received. by the Marian Brothers, at the Church of the Holy Redeemer; No.J73 Third Street. He hopes to return • the kind treatment received whenever any of the excellent Brothers honor Notre Dame with their presence.
Iiocal Items.
—The young telegraphers now have their lines in work ing order.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The astronomers have been making good use of the telescope.
—The two crews will soon begin their practice prior to the fall race.
—The number of students learning music is greater than in former years.
—Baseball, football and alleyball are indulged in during recreation hours.	•
—Several scrub games of baseball were played on Wednesday afternoon.	.
—A crowd of Juniors took a tramp around the country on Wednesday last.
—Students shold be careful to notify us of the arrival of any of their friends.
—Has the well which was intended to be dug for the Minims been given up ?
—There are now thirty more students in the Senior Department than last year.
—There will be a full report of the reorganization of of the Philopatrian Society next week.
—Large water-pipes are being laid from the cisterns near the new church to the steam-house.
—So far there are very few cases of homesickness and those cases are not very aggravating ones.	•
—Every one should remember that under the rules of the house he must take a bath at least once a week.
—Most of the societies reorganized during the past week. We wish them all uninterrupted success.
—By George! George Sugg and George Cassidy have been appointed to take charge of the Juniors’ hall.
—We expect to be able to give the positions of the players in the different clubs in our next week’s edition.
—The warm weather about the middle of the week gave us to understand that summer has not yet left us.
—There has been some pleasant rowing on the upper lake. The two crews will be chosen the coming week.
—Washington Hall, is, we understand, to be lighted with gassoline. li will be a good thing to get rid of the lamps.
—The Mutuals beat the young Americas on Wednesday last by a score of 21 to 12. Only seven innings were played.
—We trust that our present subscribers will not only renew their subscriptions but will interest their friends in the paper.
—It has been said that there will be a declamation given every week in the Junior Refectory just after the evening meal.	'
—When writing anything for the Scholastic please remember that you should write on one side only of the paper.
—The walks on the Campus have been put in very neat trim; the grass has been mowed, and everything looks lovely.
—In a week or two Very Rev. President Corby, and Rev. T. E. Walsh, Director of Studies, will begin the visitation of classes.
—“I’ll be 17 next month,” is what quite a number of the members of the Juuior department, anxious to enter the Senior, now say.
—We are sorry to hear that the Juanita B. B. Club intends changing the name of the club. We trust that our information is erroneous.
—Next week we will begin the publication of the regular class honors. Let everyone endeaVor to have his name appear on this list.	'
—The first Entertainment of the year will be given on the 13th of October, when it is expected that the Thespians will give us a rare treat.
—Mr. Shickey has been doing a good business, the last two weeks, running bis ’bus between Notre Dame and the Lake Shore depot in South Bend.
—Every day a number of students arrive, and many more are expected. The large number of students here is a surprise to the authorities themselves.
—Gregorian music is,to be sung at St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, instead of the figured triusic which heretdi fore has been used during Divine service.
—The new chapel at the Novitiate is going up rapidly and will before long be occupied. It will be quite a pretty chapel and one calculated to inspire devotion.
—It seems that there was an electoral commission of 8 to 7 the other evening in the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association. As usual, the philibusters did not succeed.
—The Academia will be reorganized some day next week. This is the boss society of the house, and we trust the members will more than distinguish themselves the coming year.
—It is expected to have the large organ in the church pumped by steam before long. This is what, is needed; for it is hard work on half a dozen men to pump the organ during Mass or Vespers.
—We understand that Prof. Lyons intends issuing his Scholastic Almanac about the first of December. As in former years, the reading matter of the volume will be taken from the Scholastic.
—Apples are very scarce on the trees at Notre Dame this year. The youngsters will not like this much, but it can’t be helped. Many of the trees have no fruit, and others but a very poor kind.	.
—Letters sent to students at Notre Dame should he addressed simply “ N. N., Notre Dame, Ind.” Nothing' else is needed. There is a post-office here, so that no fine' need be alarmed lest his letters go astray.
—The Cornet Band has been reorganized, and we may soon expect to hear it out serenading. It is to be hoped that the members may find it convenient to enliven the the Campus frequently with soul-stirring strains.
—The Campus is being put in excellent order. The skating rink, of which we made mention last week, will be located at the west end of the Campus, and we hope to see work commence on it before the cold weather sets in.
—This week we begin our regular weekly roll of honor on which appear the names of all who distinguished themselves by their good conduct during the week. It should be the aim of every student to have his name figure on it.
—A large number of Juniors, accompanied by B. Lawrence, traversed 640 acres of land last bunday. They ar. rived home a little tired, but pleased with their walk. They report apples scarce, watermelons and nuts average yield.
—Hereafter the regular carriers will distribute the Scholastic every Saturday at half-past three in the afternoon. Everyone desiring to get the paper should subscribe tor it at the students’ office. Extra copies may be procured at the office.
—It has been nip and tuck between the two departments as to which will have the largest number of students. Thus far the Senior Department leads the Junior by about ten. However, the Juniors expect to pull up before the end of the month.	,
—The patent cutter attached to our press has excited much interest amqng newspaper men. It is the cheapest one in the market, its actual cost being not more than fifty cents, while it does its work as well as a hundred dollar cutter can do it.
—To morrow is the Feast of the Seven Dolors. Vespers will bethose of the Blessed Virgin. There will be no sermon in the morning, but after Mass the new Stations painted by Signor Gregori will be solemnly erected. The Mass sung will be Missa Regia.	.
—The silver maples are among the prettiest and cleanest of the shade trees at Notre Dame. The maple is far preferable to the abele or white poplar, as it does not throw up suckers to spoil the walks and disfigure the lawn.
—Although cold weather will not be on hand for a long lime yet, the plumbers, taking time by the forelock, are getting the steam-pipes in good order, so that when Jack Frost does come he will be met by such a bountiful supply of steam as to drive him precipitately from the College building.	•
—There has been no fishing parties out yet. However, we would not be surprised to see the youthful Junior pre
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	43
s/' yn!r"^«7«i"”*,‘”v	f r ,"	* '■ •, 'J’’ '“	'■
paring his tackle for next Wednesday. If the Juniors only make for the lake we would advise the fish to give themselves up at once, and not give the boys the trouble of baiting.
—We have read of the rat who in need of prayers climbed up a rope for the want of stairs, but a certain rat in need of prey climbed up to the bird-cage in the Junior study-hall. He was seen by Master Champlin, who courageously went to the rescue of the pet canary, and dispatched the rat in quick order.
—We expect next week to be able to give a list of the members of the Orchestra, with the names of the instrument which each one plays. There is no more deserving organization in the College than the Orchestra, and we hope that all the members will take that interest in it which it deserves, and make it a success in every way.
—Won’t there be a jolly time next month? just think of it! Half-a-dozen preps, will then celebrate their birthday, so they say, and attaining the age of sweet 17, will pack up their baggage and over the fence to the Senior department. By the way, doesn’t Josh Billings say that people born in October are great lovers of pumpkin pie?
—The number of students entered this year is far in excess of that of last year, and as there are many who were unavoidably prevented from entering the first week there is every appearance of having an extraordinarily large number with us the coming year. Everything is in a most prosperous condition, and everything will be done to have them remain so.
—There are already more students in the Minim Department this year than there was at any time last year. As students enter the department at any time during the year, it looks as though the Minims would be double the number of last year.
—May we not expect our friends to assist us in increasing our circulation this year? Instead of printing one thousand Scholastics for our subscribers, we would like to have our subscription list of over two thousand. We can do it if our friends will assist us. Will they do it?
—Last July we printed an edition of twenty-eight hundred copies of the Scholastic containing accounts of the Annual Commencement and the whole edition was exhausted. Next year we must do better, so that we may have on hand through the year some extra copies to supply friends asking for them.
—At a meeting of the Boat Club, held Sunday, Sept. 9, the following officers were duly elected: Director, Very Rev. Wm. Corby; Assistant Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh; President, Rev. John A. Zahm; Commodore, W. Mattimore; Secretary John G. Ewing; Treasurer, V. J. McKinnon; Captain of Hiawatha, P. J. Mattimore; Captain of Minnehaha, L. D. Murphy.
—Ata meeting of the St. Aloysius Philodemics, held Sunday evening, Sept. 9, the lollowiug officers were elected for the ensuing session: Director, Rev. John A. Zahm; President, Rev. Thus. E. Walsh; Vice-President, Nat. J. Mooney; Rec. Secretary, L. D. Murphy; Cor. Secretary, John G. Ewiug; Treasurer, J. J. Quinu; 1st Censor, A. J. Hertzog; 2d Censor, P. J. Cooney.
—We would respectfully announce to our readers that by special arrangements made with Mr. D. A. Clarke, of ’70, we are enabled to furnish the Catholic Columbian, of whcih he is the business manager, and the Scholastic at the rate of §3 00 per annum. We feel that many of the old students will be happy to avail themselves of this oppor-unity of procuring these two papers at such a low rate.
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt of a fine collection of marbles from Mr. Frank Cannon, of Philadelphia, Pa. Among them are several fine specimens of onyx, Spanish, French, Italian, and American marbles, etc. He also returns his thanks to Masters A. Widdicombe, of St. Paul, Minn., and Byron Kratzer, of Peru, Ind., for donations to the Cabinet of Zoology and Mineralogy.	.
—This week we send out our blanks, which all who desire to subscribe for the Scholastic the coming year will please fill up and return with tbe price of subscription. If by mistake anyone whose subscription may not yet have
expired should receive one of these blanks, we hope he will pay no attention to it. If his subscription has run out, he will do us a great favor by giving it his prompt attention.
—There were fifteen hundred copies of the Commencement Oration of Hon. Frank H. Hurd printed by us last July, and all of them have been taken. We are sorry that we did not print five hundred more copies at the time, notwithstanding that the oration'was printed in all the leading Catholic papers and in the Scholastic we have demands for the pamphlet edition of the oration and we are only sorry that we cannot supply them.
—The baseball clubs have nearly all been reorganized, and after a few practice games the struggle for the fall championship will begin. We understand that there is a disposition among some of the Juniors to change the names of their clubs. This is not right. The clubs should keep their old names; we would never feel satisfied, were the championship to fall to the Juniors, if any club other than the Excelsiors to possessed it. Let each club keep its own old name.
—Very Rev Father Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, arrived at Notre Dame, from France, yesterday morning. He was received in front of the College by the students and members of the community, where a number of addresses were read, to which he responded in fitting terms. The Band made its first appeareuce this year on this occasion, and furnished some excellent music. The Very Rev. General looks to be in the best of health..
—The Columbian Literary and Debating Club met on Sunday night, Sept. 9th, reorganized, and elected the following officers: Director, Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.; Promoter, Bro. Theodore; Hon. President, Prof. J. F. Edwards; President, Prof. J. A. Lyons; Vice-President, J. Prudhomme; Rec. Secretary, J. Fitzgerald; Cor. Secretary, Guy Williams; Treasurer, A. Keenan; 1st Critic, T. Fis-chael; 2d Critic, J. Stewart; Marshal, G. S. Walters; 1st Censor, L. W. Prudhomme; 2d Censor, Thus. Barry; Prompter, R. Rutledge; Curator, E. K. Anderson. •
—Thealtheas (Rose of Sharon) in the garden in front of the College are just coming into flower when so many other shrubs and flowers are making their retiring bow after regaling us with sweet scents during the heat of the summer. It is a pity there are not more of them for variety at this season of the year. In a few years we hope to see some choice specimens of the grand and beautiful EscuLus (Horse-chestnut) as the hitherto slow growing trees of this kind are of late pushing into more rapid growth. Scarcely anything in the horticultural kingdom looks so beautiful as a fine grown horse chestnut wnen in flower, presenting as it does a beautiful cone of flowers and foliage from top to bottom.
—The reopening of the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, as we learn from the excellent little journal published tiiere, the Notre Dame Scholastic, is marked by the appointment as President of the .Very Rev. William Coiby, of Watertown, Wisconsin, who has been connected with various offices in Notre Dame, or some of its missions, for nventy years. During his labors in Watertown, Wisconsin, he established a branch of his Order, organized a college, and built one of the finest churches in the Northwest. Under his direction the institution cannot fail to prosper. The various professors’ chairs are ably filled; and Notre Dame is quite harmonious with the energetic pulsations of “the Great West.’’—Boston Pdot.
—A meeting was held by some of the students of the Se nior department for the purpose of reorganizing the old En terprise B. B. C., which existed in 1869 and several years previous. At this meeting the following officers were elected: Director, Bro. Theodore, C. S. C.; President, P. H. Hagan; Secretary A. K. Schmidt; Treasurer, W. H. Ohlman; 1st Cen->or, Virgil J. McKinnon; 2dCensor, J. P. Quinn; Field Captain, Jose L. Perea. After the election, the chair appointed a committee of inree to draw up a constitution for the Club and present it next meeting. The captain then picked out his nine as follows: W. Ohlman, c.; P. H. Hogan; p.; J. L. Perea, s. s. and captain;. A. K. Schmidt, 1st b.; J. P. Quinu, 2d b.; V. McKinnon, 3d b.; M. E. Cross, 1. f.; J.E. Wright, c. f.; J. O. Hamilton, r. £;
THE XOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
:	—“Whar yon gwine, Sam, wid dat ar Bible?” “Dis
is none ob your Bibles, Wash.; dis yar is a cycopidee, whar you can find eberyting from Moses to Washin’ton. You see, Wash., we edicated colored gemmen’s gwine to hab a debatin’ s’ciety, and I am gwine to make a speech.” “What am de question, Sam?” “The question is—Dis-r	solved—What kind ob an animal would de mule be wid-
,	out de ears?” “Why, ob course, Sam; it would be—it
would be-^of course—” “Why, you niggers what has no edication can’t talk about such high questions, Wash.;
,	but; you see, I is on de dissolved side. I has dis book to
git de big words to show dat de ears is as necessary to de mule as de mule is to de ears, and when I has convinced de meetin’ I’ll finish wid de best question last, and ax what kind of animal would de ears be widout de mule ? ”
—On Wednesday morning the Unversity Band held a meeting for the purpose of reorganizing. The-following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Director, Very Rev. Wm. Corby, C. S. 0.; President, Rev. E. Lilly, 0. S. C., Vice-President, Joseph P. McHugh; Secretary, Jas. J. Quinn; Treasurer, A. K. Schmidt; Censors, L. Evers and L. D. Murphy. The following are the members and their instruments: E. Flat Soprano, L. Evers, J. P. Quinn; B Flat Cornets, A. McGuire, J. J. Quinn, A. K. Schmidt; Solo . Alto, J. P. McHugh; Baritone Solo, Bro. Basil, C. S. C,:
E. Flat Alto, Messrs. Pembroke, Waters, and Perea; B .	Flat Tenors, N. J. Mooney, J. Hauck, T. Fischael; 1st B
Flat Bass, Bro. Paul, C. S. C., A. Keenan, M. Regan; B. ;	Flat Contra Bass, A. Barry, G. Williams; E Flat Bass, P
,	J. Kollop, C. S. C.; Bass Drum, L. D. Murphy; Snare
'	Drum,---------; Cymbals, M. Williams.
—The first reguar meeting of the St. Ceclilia Philoma-;	thean Association for the scholastic year 1877-8 was held
,	last Saturday for the purpose of reorganization and election
;	of officers. The following officers were elected: Very Rev.
!	Wm. Corby, Director; Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, Assistants	Director; Rev. F. C. Bigelow, Dramatic Critic; Prof. J. A.
1	Lyons, President; Prof. A. J. Stace, Dramatic Reader;
Prof. L. G. Tong, Judge of the Moot Court; Prof. T. EHoward, General Critic; Br. Leander, C. S. C., and Prof. J. F. Edwards, Promoters; A. J. Burger, 1st Vice-President; A. Widdicombe, 2d Vice-President; F. Carroll, VicePresident of the Orpheonic Branch; J. Healy, Recording Secretary; G. F. Sugg, Corresponding Secretary; G. CasE	sidy, Historian; .A. Cavanaugh, Treasurer; C. Hagan, 1st
[	Censor; C. Walsh, 2d Censor; G. Crawford, 3d Censor;
R. P. Mayer, Sergeant at-Arms; R. Keenan, Librarian; F. Nelson, J. Perea, and F. M. Grath, Costumers; G. Donnelly, Marshal; J. Bloom, Prompter; A. Sievers, Assistant Libi arian; M. Bannon, Clerk of the Moot Court.
—A meeting of the Thespians, for the purpose of reorganization, was held on Saturday, Sept. Sth, and the following officers were elected for the ensuing session: Director, Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C.; Assistant-Direc-
.	tor, Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S- C.; Dramatic Instructor;
Rev. F. C. Bigelow, C. S. C.; President, J. A. Lyons, LL. D.; Vice-President, John G. Ewing; Promoters, Jas. F. Ed wards, LL. B.; Bro. Theodore, 0. S. C.; Secretary, Jas. J. Quinn; Corresponding Secretary and Monitor, Joseph P. McHugh; Treasurer, Nath. J. Mooney; Censors, Ambrose J. Hertzog, Logan D. Murphy, Augustus K. Schmidt; Librarian, P. J. Cooney; Prompter, E. F. Arnold. Messrs. Quinn and Hertzog were appointed to wait on the Rev. Fathers and gentlemen and inform them of their election. Messrs. Quinn, Hagan, Perea, McKinnon and McGuire were unanimously elected members of the Association. A second meeting was held on Tuesday, the 11th inst. Messrs. Hagan and J. P. Quinn declaimed. Messrs. Regan, Kinney, and Ohlman were elected members.
—We hope that all our subscribers will promptly renew their subscriptions. This journal not only opens a field for young aspirants to literary fame who might otherwise, for want of a proper medium, allow their talents in this line to remain inactive, but it also contains many articles of an instructive and literarj’ character from writers of mature and acknowledged ability, thus rendering the Scholastic a valuable publication for all who desire variety and instruction in their reading. During the past scholastic year there have appeared in its pages nearly a hundred interesting biographical sketches of men of note in
literature, science, painting, sculpture, etc., essays in prose and verse, and notes on art, music and literature, gleaned from the best sources. It will be the honest endeavor of the Editor, during the coming year, to merit the encouragement given the paper during the past, and the high encomiums bestowed upon it by first-class papers among the weekly press. In addition to its literary features; the Scholastic attaches to itself a local importance to students, to their parents, and. to all who have in former years attended class at the University, by a weekly summary of events transpiring at Notre Dame, by personal notices of the old students, weekly Rolls of Honor; Class Honors, and lists of excellence. Reports relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic students, etc., will also find a place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately informed on all that concerns their children.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, J. W. Bell, T. Barry, J. Booeh, W. Cannon, B. J. Claggett, J. Carroll, J. Devine, J. G. Ewing, F. 0. Ewing, L. Evers, F. Eisenman, J. Fitzgerald, F. Fnlkerson, R. Francis, E. Gramling, A. Ginz, E. Gooley, A. Hertzog, P. Hagan, F. Hellman, J. Houck, R. Hazlett, W. Hoyte, M. Hogan, T. Hale, J. Johnson, L. D. Murphy, P. W. Mattimore, J. Murphy, W. J. Murphy, V. T. McKinnon, H. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, F. McMullen, W. Ohlman, J. L. Perea, W. L. Prudhomme, J. Phillips, E. Poor, R. Price, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, O. P. Rettig, J. Rothert, J. Rogers, J. Price, R. Routledge, A. K. Schmidt, T. Summers, G. Saxinger, C. H. Taylor, M. Williams, H. Whitmer, G. Walters, F. Walter, E. Ward, P. J. Cooney, F. Keller, B. Kratzer, J. P. Kinney.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arntz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. Burns, J. A. Burger, A. J. Buerger, G. H. Crawford, Harry Canoll, J. Carrer, T. F. Clark, W. D. Cannon, F. E. Carroll, C. E. Cavanaugh, G. P. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, G. H. Donnelly, R. French, L. Garceau, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, H. Gramling, R. E. Keenan, F. Lang, J. Lumley, J. Larkin, J. McNellis, W. McCarthy, J. Mun-goveu, R. P. Mayer, F. T. McGrath, A Miller, T. Nelson, T. P. O’Hara, G. Orr, E. T. Pleins, R. P. Pleins, S. 8. Perley, J. Perea, R. W. Reynolds, A. Reitz, J. Shcoby, G. E. Sugg, A. Sievers, F. J. Snigler, W. H. Vander Heyden, C. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, E. S. Walter, S. Welty, F. Weisert, J. E. Halloran, J. P. Hafner, H. E. Hadlieh, J. L. Healey, J. F. Herrick, G. A. Heitkam, C. L. Hagan, G. Ittenbach, J. B. Ittenbach, A. Widdicombe.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Coolbaugh, A Coghlin, A. J. Bushey J. Scanlan, W. McDevitt, P. Nelson, G. Rhodius, J. Seeger, M. Herrick, G. Lambin, W. Coghlin, John Courtney, F. Gaffney, J. Inderrieden, N. Nelson, Joseph Courtney, C. Long, H. Snee, H. Kitz, A. Herzog, C. Herzog, Joseph Inderrieden, F. Berry, C. McGrath, I. McGrath, C. Crowe, J. Crowe, C. Urennen, J. Garrick, C. Welty, C. Bushey, S. Bushey.
I

—There will be lectures and musical soirees every Monday and Tuesday from 7 o’clock to 8% p. m.
—Friday and Saturday evenings are given to French and German conversations in their respective classes.
—The pupils pass their recreations in pleasant picnics. They seem determined to make good use of the fine weather.
—A beautiful wire-stand, destined for votive lamps, has made its appearance at Lourdes. The lamps are to be surrounded by mosses.
—The various flower-plots about the Academy are very brilliant at present. The Juniors’ circle is rivalled by the richly adorned crescent in front of Loreto.
—The exquisite appearance of St. Angela’s dormitory, with its white drapery, counterpanes, etc., set off by blue fastenings, is very much praised by new comers.
—Saturday the 8th inst. was the anniversary of the re-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

moval of St. Mary’s Academy to its present location. Many interesting recollections of early days were called to mind upon this occasion.
—St. Mary’s gives her most hearty welcome to Miss E. A. Starr, who has long made her home in its sequestered shades. Her vacation trip has evidently afforded the rest from her manifold labors which she naturally required.
—Ou Thursday the young ladies, little girls and all, took a ramble. The main point was the apple orchard, The day was much enjoyed, and former pupils' of St. Mary’s made this an opportunity of becoming better acquainted with the late arrivals.
—The Rosary Circle, in addition to the usual profusion of floral treasures, presents a very pretty feature. It is the golden colored fruit of the arbor vitas. These brilliant clusters, with the crimson berries of the mountain ash, are greatly admired by visitors.
—The Toner Gold Medal has been established in the Art Department this year by the distinguished Dr. Toner of Washington City. Hence the “Toner Art Medal” will be awarded to the young lady who exhibits the greatest proficiency in drawing aud painting.
—The Minims’ recreation-room affords a very pretty tableau. Pictures, birds and flowers impart beauty and music, fragrance and cheerfulness to the place, while the choice toys, so dear to little girls, give a homelike aspect which charms the newly entered Minim before she has the chance to be homesick.
The Association of Perpetual Adoration and Work for Poor Churches.
On the occasion of the last visit of Mother Superior to Europe, she obtained the power of having the “ Archconfraternity of the Perpetual Adoration and Work for Poor Churches” canonically established at St. Mary’s. The lady members of the Society have been quietly but zealously doing this good work during the past year. A most gen-enerous lady, Madame Maitland, of New York, donated material for eighteen complete sets of vestments and a cope; Madame Piquette, of Detroit, beautiful laces, silks, etc., and many others have sent in subscriptions and donations.
The aim of this Society is: 1. To make known, and to love and adore perpetually, Jesus Christ in the Most Holy Sacrament of the Altar. 2. To repair the outrages committed against Him in this august Sacrament. 3. To aid poor congregations, by providing them with vestments, church linens and ornaments.
•Those wishing to become memberswill send their names, and select an hour every month to adore the Blessed Sacrament. This hour may be spent either in the church or at home.
They assist in making vestments or church ornaments for poor churches, or donate material. Everything will be thankfully received and carefully employed.
Any one may become a member by paying fifty cents a year.
Those whose circumstances or generosity will permit may give more.
Every member has a special part in the prayers of the Association wherever it is established, and of those of the poor.
Hereafter, in July of every year, a printed report will be sent to every member of the Association, giving a detailed list of donations received, and vestments donated to different parishes.
Below we give the circular letter of approbation.
Joseph, By the Grace of God aud Favor of the Apostolic See, Bishop of Fort Wayne.
We are solicited to erect canonically the pious Association already established at the Mother House of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind., which has for its object the Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament by day and by night, at regular hours, and also to furnish to poor Churches vestments, altar-linens and ornaments. The object of this appeal is to make the members of the Association participators in the indulgences granted by the Apostolic See to the Arch-Association established at Brussels. This demand was very agreeable to us; and in our desire to propagate, as far as lies in our
power, the good work, whose object is the glory of our Divine Saviour, we have, therefore, judged it good, in virtue of our power as Bishop, to erect canonically the said Association, and we erect it by the present letter.
4« Joseph Dwexger, Bishop of Fort Wayne.
Aug. 80,1877.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
nSTZDIJAJSTJA-
Founded 1842*	Chartered 1844*
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advance, ment of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.',
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Scholastic Almanac FOR 1877.
Price 25 cts., postrpaid.
Contents.
Introduction—Astrological Predictions—Eclipses—Days of Obligation—Fasting Days—Time—Calendars—Festina Lente—Student’s Triumph—Il Ciriegio—What the Church has Done for Civilization—Peanuts—Alanus de Insulis— The Old Church—Have We a Climate—Commencement Ode—A New French Novel—Sunshine Glistens after Rain —Sidney Smith—Leap Year—Batchelor Sketches—Count Von Gutzendorf’s Ghost—The Miser—Building Castles— Hodie Mihi; Cras Tibi—Building a Bonfire—The Cake of the Dismal Tramp—Meeting of the Waiters—Plato on the Immortality of the Soul—On the Wide Atlantic—Cowper —Dante and Pope Celestine V—A Model Student—Have we Deponents in English—Geology and the Development Theory—Oration of W. J. Onahan—Haunted House— Answer—Squeamishness—Republic of Plato—Father De Seille.
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOG-TAFHEK, Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH BE3STD, ITSTZDIA-JSTA-.
46
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attornevs at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BROWN & HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady Si., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS GE TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Beal Estate Agent, Room No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
THOMAS I?. CEIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.	'
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, At-
torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOLTIN' LT. McHlJ &TI [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.	-
DODGE DODGE [Chas. -J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVIEEE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office. 93 Main St., Elkhart, Did.
McKFtTOJD «& JMCrX.IjA.ItI> (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WIXTuT A NX J. CL A TtKJE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JA1MLES A.. O’KErTjTuY—of ’69.—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN JO. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office. 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend. Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLFMBTAIN.published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
Til is A."V"E MARTA, a Catholic journa1 devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.5". .
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cfs. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
'	Abthub C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BETNJO HERALD, published
weekly by Chae. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74' §1.50 per annum.
Time Table-June 24, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Dav	*Kal.	It Atlantic! t Night	
		Express.	Accom.	Express.	Express.
Lv. Chicago....	5 00 a m	6 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm.
“ Mich. City.-.	9 23 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles ..	10 46 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 25 p.m	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson. .	3 35 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit .. ..	6 25 “	« 20 “	8 40 “	3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	5 (io a.m	6 05 p.m	9 50 p.m
“ Jackson....	10 20 “	12 15 p.m	S 00 “	9 30 “	12 45 a.m
“ Kalamazoo..	1 16 p.m	2 40 “	5 CO a.m	12 16 a.m	2 53 “
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	7 00 “	2 35 “	4 24 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 10 “	4 05 “	5 47 “
Ar. Chicago....	6 55 •*	7 40 “	10 30 “	6 30 “	8 00 “
IViles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 30a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 37 • ,6 35 *• Ar. Niles— 910 “	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Ill.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Minera'ogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the tab’e of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Tne large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and’use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.	’
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1,500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
to
Hotels.
Crystals and fragments. Students’ size, larger...
CIRCLE TTOTJSJE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodiue, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
THE ROND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop.,Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THEMATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Bl. AlLNotre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Number of Specimens
25 inbox	50 inbox	100 in box
§ 50	$1	§1 50
1 50	3	6 1
100
§ 1
5
. ..	______ ___________ ______ . 10
High School or Acad. size,2%x3J4 in. shelf specimens ) 25
College size, 3}4x6 in., shelf specimens ...... |	500
Amateur’s size, 2J4 in. x 114.
200 300
§ 2
10
25
50
100
25
50
100 3T0
Send for the bnlletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy, fellmo of the American Association for the Advancement of ScienceLife Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.	Zc
$ 3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	47
THE “AVE MARIA,”
.A. CATHOLIC J’Otrmsr^.I.
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Name, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS IX., ABD MABY EMBEBT PBELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS :
One Year............................................$	2 50
Five Years.........................................  10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each)......20	00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 39 & 41 Chamber St. New York.
jansen, mcclurg <& co., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STREET, CHICAGO, lULUSTOTS.
Organ for Sale.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass C. C. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, C. C. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address
Very Bev. A. GRANGER, 0. S.C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
St, TBatif 8
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank, of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All The branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Mnsic, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religions instruction of Catholic pnpils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirements of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot. and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, behutifnlly adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For farther particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees,grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This -is acknowledged Sy the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren ana Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 0O a.m.	3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation.................. 5	00	p.m.	9 35	a.m.
Night Express.......................10	00	p.m.	6 50	a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, H ., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars,selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a coyy.
48	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.	•	.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 22 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 50 p m; Cleveland 10 30 pm; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 IO p m. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 10 56 p m; Cleveland 144 am; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40am; Cleveland, 7 C5 a m; Buffalo, 1 05p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.	-
GOING WEST.
3 413 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago
6 am. ■
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 20 a m.
4 38'p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 4,5 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.	’
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). . On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 P.M.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 P.M.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,		12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,	3.10 A.M.	12 50 p.m.	535 “	11.00 “
Orrville, .....		446 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 P m.
Mansfield,				7.00 “	440 “	920 “	3.11 “
Crestline,.	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,		9.25 “	7.35 “	11.15 “	
Lima,.................	10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,		1.20 P.M.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
	bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive	9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 P.M. 9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M. 248 “ 4.25 “	
Crestline,	Leave! Mansfield,	: Orrville,	- Alliance,	 Rochester,	1 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.30 « 4.05 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. n AA u 938 “ 11.15 “ 1.21 AJt. 2.30 “ 1	1.40 A.M. 205 “ 3.40 “ 5.03 “ 69	“ 70 P.M.	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Puixman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F.B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
T’Jk.TTdlOK: SHICKEY, PBOPBIBTOB OP THE NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE I For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P, S HICKEY.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST-, opposite Bierman House, Chicago, Illinois.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS § TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, cmc_A.G-o, . . . ziiUisrois.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, -A-ITTZD
JE WELK/’Y.
All^Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. n
M. Livingston & Co.,
JAT&HJ THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 94 MICHIGAN ST., SOOTH BEND, IND