The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disco quasi semper -victurns; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE, 12, 1875.	Number 38.
JNO. HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG,
City Judge.	Notary Public.
JJAGERTY &3TONG,
ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE "and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED. .
9 Odd’Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
.	o24-ly
'.I
r
Before going elsewhere, go to
ES. PECKS, . .
.	_ Dealer in
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
J) J. HOLLAND, & Co.,
*	Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES. ' 1OO MICHIGAN St.. - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST,
No. 9G Michigan Street, :	- South, Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m
Do you want a drive ? Go to
J^EN COQUILLARD’S .
LIVERY STABLES
Comer of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana. o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUSE
Niles, -	-	-	-	- Michigan.
McKAY, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house, nov 28-% tf.
P NICAR & Co.,
’ HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
HEADQUARTERS FOB
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., o24-tf
y NICAR,
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc —ALSO—	1
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. o24-tf
J. STAGE,
* COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
Orders expeditiously attended to.
Office OVER COONLEY’S DRUG STORE, nov 23-% tf.
jy’RS. C. S. STOVER,	•
MILLINER,
129 Michigan Street, South [Bend, Indiana.’ .
deai.ee in	■	.
Millinery Goods, Hats, -Bonnets, Laces, &c.
^^“The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	apllT
QEORGE HEHR, FASHIONABLE TAILOR, AND GENEBAI* DEALEB IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. . (Up Stairs.)	%o24-tf
The Students7 Office!
Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc. Bio. 54 Washington St., SOUTH BEISTID, END. aplSi
562
THE SCHOLASTIC.
NATIONAL HOTEL Soixtli Bend, Indiana At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rpHOSE -who patronize the National Hotel will find during their I stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
ENG-EL,
THE CLOTHIER,
Invites your attention to his Merchant Tailoring Establishment, No. 90 Midiigan. Street, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Only First Class Work Made Up
At Very Reasonable Prices.
Garments Warranted in all Respects.
READY-MADE CLOTHING-
In Fine Selection, Very Cheap.
If Desired, Will Bring Samples and
Take Measures at the College,
We keep constantly on hand a full line of
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER.
CLOTHIERS,
Merchant Tailors,
AND DEALERS IN	■
Gents’ Furnishing Goods,
Hats, Caps, Etc.,
109 MTOETTG-AJST STBEET,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING, SHAMPOOING, ETC. TZETTTdY SPETH, Comer NVasIiington and Michigan Sts., ' [Under Coonley’s Drug Store] SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
my-22
. MEYER LIVINGSTON, CO "Waslxingtoii. Street, [Three Doors West of Blum’s Cigar Store] SOUTH BEND, HTTDIA-JSTA.. '
B^“Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give nim a Call.	ai?
A. KLINGEL & SONS,
69 Washington Street.
SOUTH BETTD, TIST^T^TTA..
Keep constantly on hand a complete assortment of
MEN’S AND BOYS’ FINE BOOTS AND SHOES
MACDONALD,
TTZE LFTTOTOGrTLATNHIIEZR,,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
L. E. ATA.YEL,
DEALER IN
AND SILVERWARE.
PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER, JEWELER AND ENGRAVER.
W o.’lOS Michigan St., South JBend, Ind.
OF THE
Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and Bracket & Boydek’
Hand and Machine Sewed Goods.
THE
LARGEST STOCK
IN THE CITY.
Give us a Call and See the .Nobby Styles,
LADIES, We would call your attention to our immense stock of FINE
SHOES of all the standard makes.	all
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific K. K.
Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, "	Grand Pacific Hotel.
Trains.	eeave.	abbive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and	.
Atchison Express,	10.13 a m	3.30 p m
Peru Accommodation,	5.00 p m	9.30 a m
Night Express,	10.30 p m	6.15 a m
MB
The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disce cpiasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE, 12, 1875.
Number 38.
Cyrion the Chorister.
A LEGEND OF THE MIDDLE AGES.
[The following poem, by Mr. A. A. Brown, then at Notre Dame, but now’a’Priest of the Congregation of St. Paul the Apostle, in New York, first appeared in the Scholastic March 21st, 1871.]
In an old mediaeval city, near the Rhine’s majestic flow, Stood a gray and moss-clad fabric, many centuries ago: From the alms of pious Christians it had been erected there, Sanctified and blest forever, as God’s house of praise and prayer. Unto Michael the Archangel dedicated was the fane, And to all the Holy Angels who in glory ever reign;
O’er the altar high was graven, with his falchion raised to smite Michael’s self—beneath his mailed foot, trampling down the prince of night.
’Tween the windows’ tracery shining, angel forms depicted were, Angels stood o’er every doorway, hewn from marble rich and rare,
Cherubim adorned the corbels, carved in costly cedar wood, Seraphim of gold encircled, and upheld the holy rood.' Glorious was that old Cathedral, in the saintly days of yore ; And full many a legend hath it, handed down in monkish lore, Poring o’er some volumes ancient, this I found within their store:
Once within that olden city, dwelt a widow and her child, A gentle lad of fourteen summers, Cyrion the boy was styled. High and noble was bis forehead, large his eyes, of violet hue, Whilst his hair in golden masses round his head a glory threw: In the choir of the Cathedral, Cyrion the young boy sang, And his voice, so pure and flutelike, ’neath the sacred pile oft rang:
Wondrous was that voice, melodious as a silver trumpet clear, Lifting up men’s hearts to heaven, as it fell upon the ear.
Oftentimes, as midst the rafters Cyrion’s sweet notes upward soared,
Mingling with the pealing organ in harmonious accord, Murmuring a low “ God bless him ” from her prie-dieu stationed nigh,
Cyrion’s old and widowed mother brushed a tear-drop from her eye.
She loved him for that glorious voice that quivered through the air,
Still more because he served his God in holiness and prayer. From all this poor world’s empty joys the boy had turned away; In God’s fair temple, Samuel-like, he lingered night and day: Full many a time, as Cyrion sang, he, praying, upwards glanced, And visions of the angels saw, in ecstasy entranced.
Glorious the morning sun shone o’er the waters of the Rhine, Bright and verdant in the sunbeams rose the spring leaves of the vine.
’Twas the choristers’ great feast-day in that church so old and grey,
Which each returning year with splendor kept they on St. Greg ory’s Day.
Stoled priest and mitred Bishop ’fore the golden altar stood, Acolytes with twinkling tapers, monks in scapular and hood. Midst the rich tall Gothic pillars, midst the angels carved in. stone,
Tinted by the morning sunlight that through painted casements shone,
Clouds of fragrant incense floated to Jehovah’s throne above: Bearing on their shadowy bosoms prayers and praises interwove. “ Esca, esca angelorum ” through the church’s transept rang, “ Jesu, nobis miserere,” Cyrion’s voice it was that sang, And as reverent hands and holy, high the Food of angels reared, Lo I within that vast Cathedral, what a wondrous sight appeared.
Angels clad in sheeny raiment, all arrayed in phalanx bright, Swift descended to the pavement, filling all the church with light.
Gleaming stars shine on their foreheads, harps of pearl each spirit brings,
Set with sparkling gems of heaven, filled with tuneful golden strings.
Unto Cyrion approached they, and in sight of each one there, Stretching out their snowy pinions, they upraise him in the air. Then their harp-strings loudly striking, all the bright celestial throng
Join with him their heavenly voices in a new and unknown song. All the faithful stood amazed, and bewildered in surprise, But the saintly Bishop paused not, in the Holy Sacrifice.
When the Heaven-learnt song was ended, lo 1 the angels winged their fl.ght,
And as swiftly as they entered vanished out of mortal sight; Silently to earth then floated Cyrion the youthful boy, All his countenance illumined with a radiant smile of joy. As he touched the marble pavement, swift his mother to him sped,
Cold and lifeless was the body—Cyrion’s pure soul had fled: Fled, along with those bright angels, to the Eden far away, Fled to the Celestial City, there to keep St. Gregory’s Day.
The Snow-Plant.
Of the many wonderful sights of Arctic lands, perhaps none strikes the eye or excites the curiosity of the traveller more than the phenomenon familiarly known as “red snow.” A beautiful sight the little plant must he, scattered over the snow in patches, sometimes crimsoning the hills and plains for miles around. The phenomenon of red snow has for many years attracted the attention of eminent scientists, and its place in nature was for a long time undetermined. Some contended that it was of animal, others of vegetable origin. Many great names have been arrayed on both sides of the question; but it now seems to be considered as an established fact that it is of vegetable origin.
The history of this little plant, the “snow-plant,” called
564	THE SCHOLASTIC.
by Agardh Protococcus nivalis, dates from an early period. Aristotle mentions it, and says that it was well known in his time. But our accurate accounts of it date from 1760, in which year it was carefully examined by Laussure, who had procured it from the Apennines. He discovered in'the red snow a vegetable substance, which he supposed was the pollen of some plant. The next account which we have of an examination of red snow was by Robert Brown and Francis Bauer. Sir John Ross in 1819, when he had returned from his Arctic exploring expedition, sent some red snow that he had collected to Brown and Bauer. Brown’s opinion was that the snow-plant was an unicellular plant of the order of Algae. Bauer contended that it was a species of fungus, Uredo nivalis. Bauer also made many curious experiments with the snow-plant. One was an attempt to propagate it. Having filled a glass vessel with snow, he mixed with it some of the red snow, already white from exposure to the air. It was in the month of December, which that year happened to be unsually cold. Having exposed the vessel to the open air for some time, he found that the snow changed from white to pink, and then regained its original color, having increased in quantity. He also placed a small quantity of the plant over some snow, and watched the result. The temperature being low, the same changes took place, although the plant increased more in bulk. On the strength of these experiments he concluded that before maturity the young plant became green; that a certain degree of cold was necessary for its growth, and that, if exposed to the air alone for any length of time, it would lose its red color.
Baron Wrangel, who carefully analyzed the plant in 1823, denied the conclusions arrived at by former observers, and placed the plant in the lichens, calling it Pc-prasia Kermesina. The question was again mooted in 1825 by Agardh and Dr. Grenville of Edinburgh. Both agree with Brown. Sir William Hooker confirmed their views, but styled the plant Palineda instead of Protococcus nivalis. So for some time the algic nature of the snowplant seemed decided. During the year 1838, many eminent scientists on the Continent, among whom may be mentioned Kunge, Unger and Martins, wrote many elaborate accounts of the snow-plant, but brought forth nothing new. Thus far we have had to deal solely with those favoring the vegetable origin of Protococcus. But there are as many eminent names ranged on the other side.
Mr. Shuttleworth, an Englishman residing in Switzerland, having heard in August 1836, that red snow had been found in the vicinity, set out to examine it. He discovered animalcules present in the snow, by the aid of the microscope. He also described two species of low animal or. ganism, and so proclaimed the animal nature of the snowplant. Prof. Agassiz of Neufchatel, who in 1840 made a tour to the glacier of Aar, having found there the red snow, after carefully examining it, presented his views to the British Association of Glasgow. He confirmed the conclusions of Shuttleworth, and adding four other species to those enumerated and described by Shuttleworth. He considered that former observers had mistaken the ova of animalcules for the spores of plants. After the confusion attendant on the expressions of such contrary views had subsided, the true nature of Protococcus was decided. It holds no middle place between the animal and vegetable kingdom, but is in every sense of the word an alga, as Brown, Agardh, Grenville, Hooker, and many other authorities have declared.
The appearance of animal substances in the snow-plant is due to the immense quantity of low animal organisms that are found floating in the air, even in the coldest climates. Mineral substances are also found in the red-snow. The snow-plant is placed by botanists in the family Palmellacese, the lowest of plants. It is propagated like the other members of this family by a kind of germination. The plant, dilating at the extremity, shoots forth a tube-like process. A cell is found at the end of this tube, which then begins to contract until the new cells lose all connection with the parent-plant, and become distinct individuals. The Protococcus is very minute, in fact microscopical. It has the appearance, under the microscope, of brilliant garnet-colored disks resting on a matrix of gelatinous matter. These disks resemble the red globules of the blood in color and size. They are each made up of seven or eight cells, filled with a liquid probably containing the color matter of the Protococcus. This liquid, ac-according to Brocklesby, is filled with great numbers of animalcules. The color of the Protococcus, according to Dr. Kane, is a dark-red. Placed on paper, it produced a cherry-red stain, which becomes brown on exposure to the air. If red-snow be dissolved in water, it will give it a muddy claret-color. If it rests on snow which is damp, the snow beneath will be found to be of a beautiful pink color.
The Protococcus is found as far north as 63° of latitude, and it extends south as far as New Shetland in 70° south latitude. According to Sir John Ross the cliffs on Baffin’s Bay now bearing the name of Crimson Cliffs were covered for the distance of eight miles, and sometimes to the depth of twelve feet, with the Protococcus. It was found far from land, by Perry, upon the ice-fields of Spitzbergen. Kane procured it fifty miles from land, upon floes of ice. It is also known to exist on the tops of high mountains, about the snow-line. It has long been found in the Apennines and the Pyrennees. It has been found upon the tops of the Sierra Nevada, 10,000 feet above the level of the sea. Damp places, near the ocean or fresh water, seem to favor its production. The specimens examined by Dr. Grenville were from the shores of Lismore, off Scotland. It is found on reeds and stones, but grows best on calcareous rocks. Other varieties of colored snow have been mentioned, that are confounded with Protococcus. One is “ brown-snow,” which is due to the discoloration of snow by earthy matters washed down by mountain streams. There is also a kind of red snow mentioned by Arctic observers which produces a species of little auks which gather there in immense numbers. But, notwithstanding all that has been said to the contrary, Protococcus declares its vegetable origin. “And yet, why it should prefer to make the snow its habitat, or how it can find its way into those regions of frost and infertility, remains a question which still perplexes the naturalist and philosopher.”	Fairfield.

—Men who never do wrong seldom do anything.
—Browsy Bunker, of Carmel, loafed around all day trying to get the highest bid for his vote. He wanted three dollars, but just as they were about to compromise on two dollars and a half, the sun went down and the inspecter declared the polls closed. All he remarked was, “Great Cassar! is it possible I’m not in time to vote for the Constitutional amendment prohibitng bribery at elections ! ”
THE SCHOLASTIC.
565
Amsrioaa Artists.
EOKATIO GREENOUGH.
If America has not been, slow to give the vigor of her youthful imagination to painting, neither has she been backward in giving the same vigor to the plastic arts. Indeed, sculpture seems to be a characteristic medium of expression for her patristic ideas, and is one so favorable to perpetuity, that we have reason to rejoice in the national bias. Sculpture is one of the greatest aids to painting, by the severe accuracy required in its forms, and by the opportunities given by it to the student of painting for the quiet study of these forms. Niccola Pisano did more for the revival of art in Italy than Giotto himself; and a pure school of sculpture has always been one of the bulwarks of a pure school of painting. The religious schools of Siena, Umbria, of Rome itself, and with Raphael as a culminating point of their perfections, were more remarkable fur purity and nobleness of form than for color; and for the credit of preserving the traditional types of noble forms, the great sculptors of those periods are entitled to their full meed of praise with the painters. Strong, manly, earnest, are the faces of all great sculptors as they come down to us in the outlines of engraved portraits; and we can never help feeling that the idea of eternity is necessarily one akin to the imagination of a sculptor. To put into enduring marble, or in-corruptable bronze, what is unworthy to live, has a cool wickedness about it which distinguishes it from, the hasty . sins of the colorist; in the same way as a premeditated murder is different from one perpetrated in the heat of anger. What moralists affirm should be, is rendered natural by the very slowness of the processes in modelling and sculpture; so that the world has fewer statues, and groups in marble and bronze, to weep over, than paintings, whether on the wall or on canvas. We may, then, give a hearty welcome to our American sculptors, and with our admiration for what has been already accomplished by them for patriotic monuments, let us hope that like Niccola and Andrea Pisano, and like Ghiberti and Don and Lucia del Robbia, they may be called upon to adorn the sanctuaries and altars of the living God. No one but God knows how the aspirations, the religious aspirations, of youthful artists—painters and sculptors—have been stifled in America by the character of their patronage. While an American youth is longing to give original work to some chapel or cathedral in his native land, he sees copies brought from abroad whenever a marble altar is to be erected; and he must take Government orders, or orders for busts, instead of devoting himself to ideal art, or— simply starve. The question which our own generation is likely to settle for many generations to come, is—whether . we shall have native schools, like Siena, like Umbria, like Florence, like Venice, or whether we shall stifle home creations in order to sustain those abroad. The Government has solved the question so far as itself is concerned, . and American artists will not lack American Government commissions. Shall we see the same among those who are building churches and raising altars? If we do see the same encouragement given by them, we shall see ideal art, and religious art, blossoming anew in what was called fifty years ago the “wilds of America.”
Horatio Greenough was born in Boston, September 6th, 1805. He was surrounded, from his birth, by everything that could favor intellectual development, or stimulate a
noble ambition. When he entered Harvard College at the age of sixteen, he had already modelled in clay, and attempted sculpture. A French sculptor, named Rinon, who resided in Boston, was his first master. During his college career, he enjoyed the friendship and advice of Washington Allston, and produced the design from which the present Bunker Hill monument was erected. Before completing his college course he sailed for Marseilles, and thence proceeded to Rome, where he arrived in the autumn of 1825. Ue had letters to Thorwaldsen, and profited by his conversations with this distinguished sculptor; although he remarked that in the mechanical part of his art he learned more from fellow-students than from masters. He returned to Boston in 1826, and after modelling the busts of John Quincy Adams, Chief Justice Marshall, and others, returned to Italy and fixed his residence in Florence. His first commission was from James Fenimore Cooper, for whom he executed his “ Chanting Cherubs,” suggested by a portion of one of Raphael’s pictures. Of this first patron he says: “ Fenimore Cooper saved me from despair after my second return to Italy. He employed me as I wish to be employed, and has up to this moment been a father to me in kindness.” This was the first original group from ■ the chisel of an American sculptor.
There is a pathos, to ears accustomed to the sighs of young artists aspiring to celestial subjects for brush and chisel, in this declaration of young Greenough, “ Employed as I wish to he employed" ; and the pathos grows deeper when we look over the list of his works and see how seldom this was allowed to him.
In 1831, he went to Paris to model the bust of Lafyaette, that friend to America in her hour of sorest need, and whose memory will always be dear to every American. Upon his return to Florence he received liberal commissions from his countrymen, principally for busts, for en-couragment to which the example of Mr. Cooper gave a prestige. To the same active friend he was indebted for the commission from Congress to execute his colossal statue of Washington, which was finished in 1843, after many years of labor, and now stands in front of the national capital; a work of which we have reason to be proud. During these years he also he executed among other original works, “ Midora,” for Mr. Gilmore of Baltimore, the “Angel Abdiel;” and the “Venus Victrix” in the gallery of the Boston Athenaeum. A second commission from Congress (only one angel wanted after the chanting cherubs—the work he delighted in!) employed him for some years after this, and in 1851 he returned to the United States to superintend the placing, in its destination at Washington, of his group of the “Rescue,” in which the triumph of civilization is symbolized. Many vexatious delays retarded the arrival of the work from Italy, and Mr. Greenough, whom long absence had rendered unaccustomed to the turmoil of American life and the variations of American climate, was attacked by a brain fever soon after he had begun a course of art lectures in Boston. After a short but severe illness, he died at Somerville, near Boston, December 18,1852. A “ Memorial of Horatio Greenough,” published in 1853, contains a collection of his papers on art and other subjects, preceded by a life of the artist by H. T. Tuckerman.
Thus died, at the age of 47, one whose aspirations and ideal went far beyond the wishes of his patrons. Imaginative men can die of unsatisfied ideals, just as men die of physical thirst. When will our rich Americans ask at the
560
THE SCHOLASTIC.
hands of their sculptors something besides their own like nesses in marble, and when will the marble altars in' America consecrate to God the aspirations of American genius?	* * *
A Good Idea.
tip to the present time, we have, on many accounts, been prevented from noticing a proposition which, we believe, originally appeared in the Scholastic. This proposition is to the effect that the Presidents of the different Catholic colleges assemble together and organize an association for the better government of their respective institutions. We have consulted on this matter our Very Rev. President, and he favors the project. In fact, he looks upon a frequent intercommunication between our Catholic colleges as most essential to compass the ends which they, individually and collectively, have in view.
For ourselves, we have often wondered at the lack of unity which there seems to be among our Catholic higher educational institutions. When we say lack of unity, we mean that there exists no general bond of union such as would result from a well-concerted plan of action common to all. Such a plan of action cannot be devised unless the rulers of these institutions meet in council, and, by a mutual interchange of opinion, agree in choosing certain measures, and in laying down certain laws Which will serve as the future basis of the policy upon which all our Catholic colleges shall be conducted. Unanimity of action and oneness of purpose would thus be obtained.
As things are, each institution is progressing in its own way, and each is guided by a legislation peculiar to itself. This is, no doubt, satisfactory to all concerned, but, as nothing human is without its imperfections, it may with a great deal of justice and truth be asserted that each mode of government would bear some improvement, admit of some retrenchment, or suffer beneficial amendment. Desultory talk will never effect their object. There must be a thorough examination, calm yet earnest debate, a charitable pointing out of defects in each system.
A convention such as has been proposed would, most assuredly, discuss all these matters, and, after sufficient pertinent inquiry, would fix upon some general regulations which would meet with universal approbation. Thus there would be established an authority whose decisions would be final, and from whose dictates there could be permitted no unwarranted deviation. The scheme of Catholic colleges would be brought much nearer to perfection, and the influence of these institutions, proceeding from invariable principles, would become far more extended.
It is a noticeable fact that the course of study laid down by each Catholic college varies considerably from that which its coworkers have individually adopted. No doubt each looks upon its own curriculum as complete; but when we contrast or compare it with that of some, of its more advanced, and perhaps more liberal contemporaries, a wonderful lack of completeness becomes at once apparent. With some, the classics—Greek and Latin—engage chief attention; with others, mathematics and philosophy are principally taught; and again, the study of the English language and of every branch of modern science are, in a few, pursued with commendable zeal. Whereas in our own Seminary all are so happily blended, much is not left to be desired, yet with the majority of our Catholic colleges a like praiseworthy distribution of the branches of study is not a characteristic feature, and it is owing to this circumstance that s) many of their graduates are strikingly deficient either in math ematics, or in English, or in the classics. The students themselves are not to blame. They have studied what was presented ; they have mastered so far as four or five years’ college course permits mastering, whatever was embraced in the curriculum of their instituition, and if, having left the scene of their labors, they find themselves unable to work but a simple arithmetical or algebraical problem, to construe a sentence cor
rectly, or to embody their thoughts in elegant language, the fault is not theirs. We may have gone to extremes in this ’ll ustration. Notwithstanding what we have said, the graduates of our Catholic colleges compare favorably with those that have taken degrees from the higher sectarian or quasi-sectarian institutions of the land, but the comparison would be still more favorable if our colleges were, one and all, regulated according to some fixed, universal standard.
It seems to us that the forming of such a standard would naturally come within the sphere of the proposed Convention’s duties. Besides this, there are many other points of minor importance which would come up for consideration. In fact when we look more closely into this matter, and view its various bearings, the advantages likely to be derived from the holding of such a Convention as that referred to, and the higher tone which, through such a means, would be given to our Catholic colleges, we are almost forced to acknowledge the necessity of such a step.
We are in favor of a Convention of the Presidents of all our Catholic colleges. To say more than this, to dictate when or how such a convention is to be assembled, belongs not to us. We desire, however, to see some immediate move made towards the development of an idea which contains so much good sound sense. Let the question be agitated in our college papers for they are the mediums through which much good has already been effected. We are willing to do our share towards the bringing about of a speedy settlement of a matter which will undoubtedly result in the conferring of untold benefits upon the Catholic colleges of America—Niagara Index.
Perseverance.
Perseverance is the foundation of the success of every great and difficult undertaking, and no great object has ever been accomplished without this impulse, which does not let its possessor give up in despair it foiled in his first attempts alter the object he has in view. If we study the history of the great inventions, we find that they were not perfected at once, but their originators had to persevere against obstacles, which a man endowed with less hope and perseverance would have deemed insurmountable.
The telegraph is one of the results of perseverance. The persons who first conceived the idea that intelligence could be sent over the country by means of electricity were thought to be insane on the subject; and when a bill was laid before Congress asking for aid, it was ridiculed by many who thought the whole thing to be a foolish undertaking. But ridicule and poverty did not prevent the grand thought from taking a definite shape. The originators kept on with their work until they perfected the system, and their success was as great as their obstacles had been difficult, for they have not only covered the earth with telegraph wires, but have also laid cables under the ocean. The telegraph is not the only great scheme which has required perseverance to carry it through. The same thing might be said of railroads, steamboats, and of every other great improvement. For it required a long time and a great amount of perseverance to perfect these great inventions, which have proved such a benefit to mankind.
It is also perseverance that makes the great scholar and statesman. A man may be talented, and possess every accomplishment, and yet not succeed if he has not the perseverance to go on and use the knowledge and power he already possesses. Many who are endowed with great intelligence become indolent and careless alter they have reached a certain point, and suffer their less gifted but more persevering associates to surpass them in the lace after the great objects for which they are all striving.
They should remember the maxim: “ There is no true excellence without great labor;” and continue to work with untiring perseverance until the object which they have in view is attained.	M. L. K.
—We should accustom the mind to keep the best company by introducing it only to the best books.—Sidney Smith.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
567

Literature.
—A “Life of Robert Nicoll,” the poet, by Mr. P. R. Drummond, of Perth, is to be published along with a complete edition of his poetical works.
—Mr. Linnaeus Bank’s collected poems are being prepared for simultaneous publication in England and America, under the title of “ Songs and Odes on the March of Life.”
—Sir W. G. Armstrong is writing a treatise on the “ Gyroscope.” The Rev. W. Graham, son of the late Sir James Graham, Bart., M. P., is writing an account of “ A Visit to Norway.”
—In the course of a few days there will be published some further portions of the journals of Charles Mayne Young, and of those of his editor, the late Rev. Julian Young, containing many anecdotes of his contemporaries.
—A memoir of General Burgoyne, from the pen of Mr. Barrington de Fonblanque, nephew of the late Albany Fonblanque, will shortly appear. It will contain many unpublished letters of the most eminent English and American statesmen of the time.
—A correspondent, writing from Paris (May 9) states that all the copies of the first edition of the French translation, published by Messrs. Hachette, of “Young Brown” (“ Le Jeune Brown ”), a novel published in London some months ago, have been bought up by order of Prince Bismarck and despatched to Germany.
Memories: A Story of German Love. Translated from the German of George P. Upton. Chicago : Jansen, McClurg & Co., 117 and 119 State Street. 1875. pp. 173. Price §1.50. Jansen, McClurg & Co. have issued with much taste this translation of a sweet German prose Idyll. It is not necessary to speak at length of the story itself. It is prettily told, and loses nothing in the translation, which is truthful and elegant.
Mary, Star of the Sea ; or, A Garland of Living Flowers, Culled from the Divine Scriptures, and Woven to the Honor of the Holy Mother of God. A Story of Catholic Devotion. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, No. 9 Warren Street. 1875. pp. 340.
This is a new edition of a beautiful tale which we remember reading with great pleasure a number of years ago. This edition is elegantly gotten up, and will answer nicely as a premium book.
Otto’s French Conversation Grammar. Revised by Ferdinand Bocher, Instructor in French at Harvard University. New York : Henry Holt & Co., F. W. Christern. Boston: 8. R. Urbino.
This is the best French Grammar that it has been our fortune to come across. The lessons in the book are so graded that the pupil must necessarily learn as he advances on through the book; and he learns many difficult things for persons to learn, overcoming great difficulties without being frightened by them.
A Pilgrimage to the Land of the Cid. Translated from the French of Frederick Ozanam, by P. 8., a graduate of St. Joseph’s, Emmittsburg. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, No. 9 Warren Street. 1875. pp. 192.
Ozanam was one of the most charming of French writers and we rejoice to see his works translated into English. The above volume is an account of a Pilgrimage made to some of the celebrated shrines in Spain, and will be excellent reading during vacation time. The volume is well bound in cloth, and printed on good paper.
Poems of the Farm and Fireside. By Eugene J. Hall, Author of “Stories of a Winter Night;” “Caleb Comerford;” “Footprints in the Snow;” “Won at Last;” “Mankind in General,” etc. Chicago: Jansen, McClurg & Co. 1875. pp. 114., price $1.75.
Many of the poems of Mr. Hall belong to that class of which Mr. Will Carleton’s are, perhaps, the best known; however, he does not confine himself to this style, but gives us in his volume a number of charming stanzas, and of which poets of a more extended reputation than Mr. Hall might be proud. Messrs. Jansen, McClurg & Co. have issued the book in a most creditable manner, equal to that of any Eastern firm.
The Life of Our Lord Jesus Christ. By Louis Veuillot. Translated into English by the Rev. Anthony Farley. From
j the Seventh French Edition. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, No. 9 Warren Street. 1875. pp. 509.
When Renan published his infamous book, entitled “ The Life of Christ,” there were many able refutations of it printed in France. Of these replies that of Louis Veuillot was by no means the weakest Renan’s book has seen its day, and will never more be read. This will not be the case with this reply of Veuillot Written in that style so characteristic of him, it will always maintain itself before the public, and be read by all who delight in good doctrine told in terse and pithy sentences. The more books like Veuillot’s Life of Christ that we have in English, the better off will the Catholic student be.
The Baker’s Boy: The Life of General Drouot; or the Results of Industry. New York: Benziger Brothers, 311 Broadway. The Holy Isle, or The Lives of the Most Notable Irish Saints;
as a sequel to the Life of St. Patrick. New Edition. New York: Benziger Brothers, 311 Broadway. 1875.
Bertha ; or the Consequences of a Fault. Translated from the French by Mrs. Mary Huntington. New York and Cincinnati: Benziger Brothers, Printers to the Holy Apostolic See. 1875.
These three volumes belong to three different series of Catholic books to be used as premiums in parish schools. In binding and general get up they are similar to the books used for premiums in France. The series of which Bertha is a sample cost 50 cents; that of which the Holy Isle is one, are 35 cents; and the other series costs 15 cents. Of course the reading in the books is unobjectionable, and though we do not like so much cheap gilt, yet probably the persons for whom the books are intended may be more highly pleased with it than with more elegant bindings.
—Queer practices in the West. It is said that visitors who penetrate to the editorial offices of Western newspapers are astonished at the decorations which are appended to the walls. Diagrams of enormous feet, labelled “Foot of Cincinnati lady, 18 by 6 inches,” or “Foot of Chicago lady, by 8 inches,” are drawn in colored chalk upon the whitewashed walls; while oyer the editor’s desk are displayed in large letters the memoranda: “ Susan B. Anthony, bom B. C.---------” (we suppress the actual date) ,sand scattered over the table are plaster models varying from six to thirty inches in length, and labelled “Ears of the editor of”—whatever newspapers are regarded by the occupant of the room as rivals to his own.—Few York Republic.
—Mr. W. S. Gilber has written a burlesque in Fun entitled “Rosencrantz und Guildenstern,” which is full of point and humor. Here are a few lines apropos of the different styles in which the much-played “Hamlet” is presented to the public :
Ohelia. Alas, I am betrothed!
Rosencrantz. Betrothed ? to whom ?
Oph. To Hamlet!	-	.
Ros. Oh, incomprehensible!
Thou lovest Hamlet!
Oph.	Now, I said not so—
Oph.	Well, there again
Opinion is divided. Some men hold
That he is the sanest far of all sane men— Some that he’s really sane, but shamming mad— Some that he’s really mad, but shamming sane— Some that he will be mad—some that he was— Some that he couldn’t be. But on the whole (As far as I can make out what they mean) The favorite theory’s something like this: Hamlet is idiotically sane, With lucid intervals of lunacy.
I said we were betrothed.
Guildenstern.	And what’s he like ?
Oph. Alike for no two seasons at a time;
Sometimes he’s tall—sometimes he’s very short. ’ Now with his black hair—now with his flaxen wig— Sometimes an English accent—then a French— Then English—with a strong provincial “burr.” Once an American and once a Jew— But Danish never, take him how you will!
And strange to say, whate’er his tongue may be, Whether he’s dark or flaxen—English—French— Though we’re in Denmark, A. D. ten—six—two—	.
He always dresses as King James the First.
Guild. Oh, he is surely mad!
568
THE SCHOLASTIC.
. - . : ~ '1
Th® Schulastic*
Published, every Week during Term, Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TSBMS:
One year......................................$1 00
Single copies (Sets.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
The Scholastic for the 2nd Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 "months is fifty cents ; besides which all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
■ Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
—We print in another page the views of the Niagara Index in regard to the proposed Convention of the Presidents of Catholic Colleges. The Index is heartily in favor of the movement, as we had every reason to believe it would be; for it is difficult for us to suppose that any persons who desire the advancement of Catholic educational interests could be otherwise.
The New York Nreeman's Journal devotes in its issue of June 5th two columns to the matter, giving many suggestions as to what should be brought up before the Convention. The Editor also agrees “to receive and transmit to all Presidents of leading Institutions, propositions for consultations,—on condition that no matter not proposed, and accepted, as for discussion, is to be brought up at the meeting.” It would of course be well, as the 'Freeman's Journal proposed, that the delegates go to the Convention well informed as to what will be brought before the meeting. If during the convention other matters should suggest themselves to any of the delegates, these may be proposed for discussion at the next meeting. We have not the space to give in full the article of Mr. McMaster, and do not like to give it in parts.
That it is the hope of many that great things may result from this Convention if held, we transcribe from the Owl, < published by the students of Santa Clara College, an insti- tution conducted by the Fathers of the Society of Jesus, the following:
“ Two Good Suggestions. In commenting on the article entitled ‘ Our Colleges,’ which graced the last number of Brownson's Quarterly, our contemporary the Scholastic, which is always keenly alive to the interests of American Catholics, takes occasion to endorse the learned doctor’s demand for a great Catholic University. We recollect throwing out the same suggestion ourselves, in a bygone number of The Owl-, though the idea, as we put it forth, formed only a part of a wider plan, viz., the substitution of denominational for ‘ State ’ Universities; in which event, one or more Catholic universities would, of course, take their places among the rest. It was rather as a thing ‘which might hare been than as a thing which could now be, v that we suggested this; for we were well aware that there were very few quarters in which such a plan would now find favor. But if the movement be limited, as now proposed, to Catholics, and if all hope of State assistance be discarded—as of course it must be—the idea becomes straightway eminently practical. Our English cousins indeed, urged by that far-seeing wisdom which distinguishes their great Prelate, Cardinal Manning, have already reduced it to practice—on a comparatively small scale, it is
true, but with the germ and promise of an indefinitely great development in the near future. What then should hinder Americans from doing the same ?
“ The second suggestion comes from the Scholastic itself, and seems to us equally good in its way, whilst it is perfectly and immediately practicable, and (what is more) is by no means unlikely to lead to the adoption of the first. It is that the Presidents of the different Catholic colleges should hold a Convention, to discuss matters relating to the conduct and standing of those institutions, and to form plans to promote the interests of Catholic collegiate education. We do not pretend to be inspired by the Faculty of Santa Clara College in our remarks on this or on any other matter; and our opinion must therefore be taken for just what it is worth, and no more; but, looking at the matter from our own point of view, we must acknowledge that we think the proposal well worthy of consideration. We think, with the College -Message, that such a convention would be productive of an immense amount of good; and that the formation of an association among the Presidents of Catholic colleges, having regular meetings and consultations, would not only prove highly beneficial to each institution, but would immeasurably advance the interests cf the cause we all have so much at heart.”
The Visit of the Papal Ablegates to Notre Dame,
As we announced that they would, in the Scholastic some time since, the Papal Ablegates, Mgr. Roncetti and Padre Ubaldi visited Notre Dame on Monday last, June 7th.
The distinguished visitors left Chicago in the morning train on the L. S. & M. S. R. R., in company with Rev. Fathers Oakley and Riordan of Chicago, and Cooney of Notre Dame. At Laporte, Rt. Rev. Dr. D wenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, and Fathers O’Sullivan of Laporte and Lauth of South Bend, joined the party. The train arrived at South Bend about half-past twelve o’clock, where the visitors were met by Rev. Fathers Golovin and O’Connell of the College. The Notre Dame Cornet Band was at the depot, and as the party made their appearance the members struck up one of their finest pieces. The Ablegates, with the Bishop and other clergymen, entered the carriages, and with the Band in front of them started through town for the College, where they arrived at about a quarter past one.
The great,distance of the College from the depot alone prevented the students from going in procession to the depot to meet the visitors; as it was, they formed in ranks in the road in front of the College and awaited their arrival. The carriages drove up the road between the open ranks -of the students, and stopped at the garden gate, where they alighted and were received by Very Rev. Fathers Sorin, Sup. General, and Granger, Provincial. All then moved up the garden walk to the College, and passed into the grand parlor. Dinner had been prepared for the guests in the Junior refectory, and to it after a short rest they repaired.
At three o’clock in the afternoon, the Students, Professors, and all, assembled in the new, unfinished church. Prof. Falk of Chicago executed a grand march on the organ, during which the guests repaired to the seats prepared for them. When the strains of music had died away, Master Colley Clarke, Mr. E. McLaughlin and Mr. Louis Oliver each read well-written addresses to Mgr. Roncetti, which
THE SCHOLASTIC.
569
were received with rounds of applause from the students. A short organ concert was then given with Profs. Falk and Paul alternately at the organ. There was some excellent singing, and also music by the Band and by the Orchestra, with organ accompaniment. The singing of Mrs. Falk was especially fine. •
When the concert was concluded, Monsignore Roncetti arose and in Latin addressed the students for some twenty minutes, thanking them for the welcome they had extended to them, as the Envoys of the Pope, and expressing the pleasure and surprise given to him by his visit to Notre Dame. Then all the audience kneeling, he gave the Apostolic Benediction, and accompanied by the Bishop, Father General and others, left the church. The evening was spent by the envoys at the presbytery, where they remained until the next morning. On Tuesday morning the party drove over to St. Mary’s Academy, where .they remained for some time, and left in the afternoon train for Chicago. We understand that the distinguished visitors expressed themselves as highly delighted with Notre Dame.
The College, during the stay of. the Ablegates, was tastefully decorated with American and Papal flags.
The Exhibition.
The Seventeenth Annual Summer Entertainment of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society was the excitement Tuesday evening, June 8th, and proved, as St. Cecilian Exhibitions always do, a very pleasant affair. We always liked the St. Cecilians, always attended their Exhibitions, confident of having a good time, and we have never been Disappointed. The Entertainment on this occasion was ■ complimentary to Very Reverend Father Granger, who, together with Very Rev. Father Sorin and Rev. Father Golovin, occupied the position of honor in the Hall. The Cecilians had such a short time for preparation that they were unable to invite all their friends from abroad, and hence the audience was not so large as it would otherwise have been.
The programme (a model of typographical beauty, from 'the Scholastic Office) being distributed and the audience seated, the Band, instantaneous with the arrival of Very Rev. Father Granger and party, struck up the grand entrance march, and exhibited, as they are wont to do, their accurate musical training. After a well-rendered overture from the Orchestra, Mr. D. J. O’Connell appeared on the stage and in a well modulated tone of voice read the address of the evening and the prologue to the play. The address was poetical, and we do not hesitate to call it the most finished and scholarly production of its kind that we have had the pleasure of hearing this year. It was greeted with enthusiastic applause. Master J. P. McHugh then declaimed “ The Baron’s Last Banquet.” Mr. McHugh is ac tive; yet at ease, on the stage, and exhibits a good conception of his authors. He was succeeded by Master E. Arnold, who recited in a well modulated voice and with appropriate gestures “The Battle of Waterloo.” Mr. Arnold is moderate and graceful on the stage, and his effort was well received by the audience. Master A. K. Schmidt next appeared, in a most difficult exercise, “The Maniac,” and won the unqualified admiration of the audience by his passionate and lifelike personation. We have heard the poem declaimed many times by both professional elocutionists and amateurs, and among the latter we are dis
posed to give to Mr. Schmidt the palm. He was encored, and this time recited in good style an “Apostrophe to the Sword.”	.
The University Cornet Band then played a quickstep,’ and the curtain rolled up, displaying scene first of “ The Malediction.” The play is a drama in three acts, trans* lated from the French expressly for the St. Cecilians. The plot is laid in Spain during the Mahometan wars/ Don Alonzo, son of Don Vasco de Gomez, a princely nobleman, is persuaded by ambition and the evil counsel of his confidant, Don Lopez, to abandon his father, his country, and his God. He becomes a prince among the Mahometans, and in the progress of the war his father, •with all his soldiers, falls into the hands of Tarik, the Mahometan commander. Tarik commands Don Alonzo to visit his father and endeavor to win him to the faith of the Prophet, assuring him that if he fails his father shall die, Alonzo obeys; and his father, with righteous indignation, repels him, and pronounces upon him a terrible malediction, beneath which he withers and loses his reason. Don Vasco and his vassals escape from the Turks and return to the Christian camp, where they find Don Alonzo, who, beneath his father’s care, returns to reason and is afterwards killed in a sanguinary conflict with the Mahometans. Pedrillo, the peasant, is a man of many words and few actions. He excites a great deal of merriment, but in the last scene shows'his skill as a swordsman by killing Tarik in a scientific manner.
Don Vasco was well represented by J. W. Minton. Don Alonzo, as acted by A. K. Schmidt, was in the highest degree emotional. It is a difficult rale, and Mr. Schmidt was fully equal to it, portraying the continually changing emotions in a manner that quite won the admiration of the audience. Mr. J. P. McHugh, as Don Lopez, the crafty and interested friend, played his part to our entire satisfaction. T. McNamara (Tarik) as the proud and wily Mahometan, the brave commander, and the skilful swordsman, was while on the stage our beau ideal of a Turk. J. E. Wood (Pedro) was a kind-hearted old peasant,—easy, dignified, and natural on the stage. His son Pedrillo was ably personated by R. J. Downey. Mr. Downey had one of the best parts in the play, and he acted it with credit to himself and the Society. He was applauded by the audience at almost every move he made. J. D. O’Hara (Fabrico) made an excellent waiter, but a very impatient listener to his brother’s long stories. He took his part in the best possible manner. Mr. J. P. Dore (Ibrahim) made a grand old Turkish nobleman; and Mr. E. F. Arnold (Abdallah) was a Mahometan officer of merit and distinction; he looked every inch a follower of the Prophet. Mr. Weisenburger was a polite and affable waiter. The Spanish soldiers who figured in the play, J. D. McIntyre (Marietto) J. L. Perea (Basilia)T. J. Solon (Sancho) W. C. Byrne (Virginio) M. A. Kramer (Leon) M. J. Murphy (Leandro) all under the command of F. E. Foxen (Mendoza), performed their parts well, and contributed largely to the success of the play. The Turkish soldiers, Messrs A. Leitelt (Melgig) J. C. Golsen (Tchad) F. Frazee (Ugani) A. H. Mitchell (Pain-Tchad) R. Norris (Abdul); the peasants, H. D. Faxon (Gensaro) R. J. Walker (Dion); C. W. Hake (Virgilio), E. F. Riopelle (Ruisco), F. M. Smyth (Madrido), all performed their parts in a manner that was highly creditable. It often happens that the success of the play is marred by those having inferior parts not receiving sufficient attention, but nothing of the kind in
570
THE SCHOLASTIC.
this case; the support without exception played their parts as well as those having the longer roles. Uy the way, in looking over the programme we observe we have omitted Juanino (Mr. L. P. Best) and we might conclude right here by saying Mr. Best was good, but Mr. Downey was better, and, as a friend at our elbow suggests, Mr. Schmidt was best.
When the curtain went down on the final tableau, Very Rev. Father Granger rose and gave the closing remarks in his kind, unostentatious way, the Band played the march for retiring, and thus terminated what was called on all sides the most pleasing and successful Entertainment of the year.
The length of the Entertainment was another thing that pleased us. It was just right—2% hours—aud we sincerely wish it may form a precedent for the other Societies —one which they can be induced to follow in the future, for nothing is more wearisome than a long Exhibition.
Art Notes.
—James Jackson Jarvis, the art critic, is in Florence.
—Mr. Samuel Conkey, the sculptor, has gone to Detroit. He has a medallion,head, a companion to his “Juliet,” in progress.
—Rouse, of Boston, executes crayon portraits at $400 a head. The charming little pictures of children for sale in the art stores, photographs from crayons, mounted on bluegray paper, are his.
—Dore’s great picture of “ Christ leaving the Pretorium ” with his other pictures in the Dore Gallery, and Fortuny’s latest picture, “ The Antechamber,” stand among the regular advertisements of exhibitions in the Athenaeum.
—M. Gerome, the distinguished French historical painter, has received a special invitation from the Sultan to paint a series of pictures for the Palace, and is expected to arrive in Constantinople towards the middle of the present month.
—Thornycroft’s statue of the late Lord Mayo was cast May 21st at the new foundry of Messrs. Cox, the ecclesiastical fitters at Thames Ditton; the figure on horseback will be fourteen feet high and erected opposite the Government House, Calcutta.
—The works of art admitted to the French Salon of this year are about 2,200 in number. These are additional to about 2,000 of the “exempt.” The total is unusually large. The capacity of the galleries in the Palais des Champs Elysees is said to be practically unlimited, and would admit 10,000 pictures if the authorities chose.
—In Massachusetts the law requires that free industrial drawing-classes shall be established in all cities of over 10,000 inhabitans. Last year twenty cities complied with the law and three disregarded it. It is now proposed that the law shall be amended so as to include all towns of over 5,000 inhabitants, which would include forty-three more. There is difficulty in obtaining competent teachers.
—Johann Adam Klein, the German artist who died at Munich May 29th, was 83 years of age. He studied art under the directions of Ambroise Gabler and went through a complete course of study for four years at the Academy, Vienna,, while the great wars of Napoleon were in progress, of which he made numerous sketches. After a visit to Hungary, Styria, and cities and towns on the Danube, he returned to his native town in 1815, and there continued his studies. He visited Italy a few years later and enjoyed the patronage of the crown prince of Bavaria. He next gave to the world his pictures of scenes of the bivouac, the transports, military trains, and battle episodes. He was particularly happy in sketching popular types, and as a horse-painter he had no rival in Germany. He soon reached the foremost rank in his profession. In engraving he was equally fortunate in reaching a high
position. The Germans have always regarded him as one of their best artists.
—At Pompeii, “ H. W.” writes from Naples on the 27th of April, in the atrium of a small house was found, about a week ago, a wooden casket, and in this casket there were contained two Lares, two Penates, figures of Isis and Anubis, all four of bronze, and a third Penates of silver. There were found, moreover, a winged Harpocrates, small but very precious on account of its extremely fine work; a silver spoon, and some cornelians, aud an amber vase, besides other vases of glass. The excavation was still more remarkable for the discovery of a little figure of Venus is marble, a small amphora of Greek glass, and a terra-cotta, representing a woman lying on a couch, colored, and of very fine work. The amphora is of colored glass, and is marked with tortuous and undulating lines. In Greek tombs it is said to be common, but not so in Pompeii, and hence it is concluded that it was not for daily use, but was retained as a precious object of art. The Venus, too, though very indifferently worked, is important, as around the wrists and arms are still preserved ornaments of gold, and a chain of gold around the neck. Yet more recently, on the 23rd, was discovered a painting which is regarded by competent judges as one of the most interesting that has been brought to light. It represents Laocoon according to the description of Virgil; and as the colors are well preserved, it is hoped that it will be transferred to the Museum.—Athenaum.
1
Musical Notes.
—Signor Ardeyanni was tendered a farewell concert in New York on the 25th of May.
. —Mr. William Crowther Aloyn is engaged on an opera founded on the nautical drama of “Black-Eyed Susan.”
—Marseilles has a new tenor, Fournie, who, says a local paper, sang brilliantly the part which he took in “Robert Le Diable.”
—Johann Strauss has returned to Vienna, highly pleased, with the manner in which the Parisians received his “ Reine Indigo.”
—Van Bulow is to receive two hundred thousand francs for his series of one hundred concerts in the United States. He will be over in the Fall.
—Gilmore, with his band of one hundred performers, is delighting his audiences at the Hippodrome, which he has converted into a garden of exceeding loveliness.
—The tenor Poggi, the husband of Trezzolini, died lately at Bologna. Verdi wrote for him “I Lombarde’.’ and “ Giovanni d’Arco;” and Donizetti, “ Torquato Tasso” and “Pia de Tolomei.”
—A new quartet has been formed, which is one of the best male quartets of voices ever organized in this country. Mr. W. H. Fessenden is tenor, and Mr. J. F. Rudolphsen basso. The names of the other artists will appear shortly.
—Mrs. Moulton, the singer, has been as great a star this winter in the Quirinal circles as she was in the St. Cloud set. Her luscious, entrancing voice, according to a Rome correspondent who terms her “orientally handsome,” has charmed everyone.
—Alfonso Redano, the young Neapolitan pianist, has met with great success in his tour through Italy and Germany. The Gazette Jlusicdle says that if this progress continues as it has begun he will take rank as one of the chief pianists of the day.
—M. Maurice Strakosch has been unable to secure the services of his sister-in-law, Madame Adelina Patti, for the Italian Opera in Paris, which he is again to direct next winter, as the lady is engaged, first for St. Petersburg, and afterwards for Vienna.
—Max Strakosch, now in London, is said to have a dramatic project on hand which, if he succeeds in completing, promises to compensate him for his losses last season. There is a rumor afloat that Maurice Strakosch is organizing an Italian troupe for Paris for next winter, and that he has already secured the Salle Ventadour. He has
THE SCHOLASTIC.	571
engaged Mlle. Zara Thalberg, by special treaty with Mr. Gye.
—Mr. Dudley Buck has gone to New York to take up his permanent residence there, and not, as lias been stated in many quarters, merely to conduct Thomas’ Garden Concerts during the absence of Mr. Thomas. He has entered into au engagement with Mr. Thomas, and will do his share of conducting, but incidental to his other professional avocations, which he will follow hereafter in New York, instead of Boston.
—The Dusseldorf correspondent of the London Times, writing under date of the 17th ult., says: The Lower Rhine Whitsuntide Musical Festival, which we are now celebrating at Dusseldorf, is the fifty-second of a long and illustrious line. Held by turns at the three towns of Cologne, Aix-la-Chapelle, and Dusseldorf, they may remind us of our own Three Choir Festivals; and if they have not attained such a venerable age as their English parallels, I fear it must be added that they are of greater musical importance and pretensions.
—A Paris correspondent of the Amateur writes: “ Auber died rich, covered with years and with glory; Mozart, at the age of thirty-six, poor and neglected. Auber will soon possess a tombstone; but Mozart will never have one, for this reason: He died in the morning of a gloomy winter’s day; the same evening his body was carried to the common vault, accompanied by a few persons only. In. the following night there was a terrible storm, the cemetery was inundated, devastated, * * * * and since then no one has ever been able to discover the spot where he has been interred.
—Mr. Louis Dechauer, the well-known composer and organist, is about to publish a work, which promises to be of great interest, under the following title: “History of the Pianoforte Manufacture, its beginnings and developments up to date, in the United States of America. The work is naw going through the press and will be ready by the Fall. It is the only work of the kind published here. Its contents will'be, 1st, A Universal History of the Pianoforte Manufacture; 2d, All the Patents taken in the United States up to date, with plates and explanations. It is a work which cannot fail to interest a large circle of readers.—Watsons Art Journal.
—The Cincinnati Gazette of the 30th says: Pike’s OperaHouse was filled last night with a brilliant audience to welcome Miss Julia Rive, after her brilliant success in New York and elsewhere. It was a splendid ovation to a Cin^ cinnati artist by her friends and acquaintances, and by those who have an interest in her as a pianist of more than ordinary ability. It is pleasant to be able to record that the audience was obliged to find itself indebted to the pianist before the concert closed. There was a revelation of ability, of extraordinary musical power, such as to make all feel that they were in the presence of a great artist, and, though their presence was appreciated as highly complimentary, yet what they gave was much less than what they received, and their part of the account was on the debtor side. Miss Rive was generous in her offerings on the programme. She had no less than four numbers out of the ten, and she twice responded to encores. She played a scherzo B minor, by Chopin; Campanella, by Liszt; Schumann’s Fantasie Bilder, allegretto from Beethoven’s Eighth Symphony; a waltz, by Tausig, and, with Mr. Henry G. Andres, a rondo for two pianos, by Chopin. This certainly was a fair amount of labor to be undertaken for one night. It was all faithfully done and more, and the last effort lost none of the vigor that marked the first. Miss Rive does not seem to know what fatigue is, when at the piano. Her first number, the Schubert scherzo, and Liszt’s Campanella, gave a fair exhibition of her wonderful manner of playing. In both, but especially in the scherzo, were passages of reverie in which she seemed to delight. In these the piano, under her touch, becomes a living instrument, speaking as she directs. Nothing more tenderly beautiful can be imagined than the exquisite feeling she infuses into the faultless tones that come from her touch. She sits as if she were composing, her eyes fixed on the key-board, and her mind apparently deeply absorbed in the work before her, and the music is produced as if it were her own thought.
'	Personal.
—Rev. Father Oakley, S. J., came over to Notre Dame with the Papal Envoys.
—Prof. Falk and lady, of Chicago, spent a few days at the College in the beginning of the week.
—Rev. Dan’l Riordan, of Chicago, visited Notre Dame with Mgr. Roncetti and Padre Ubaldi on Monday last.
—Rev. Father Maximilian, O. S. F., of Mishawaka, attended the concert given the Papal Ablegates on Monday last.
—Michael Keating, at one time a student at Notre Dame and a resident of South Bend, was accidentally killed in Chicago a few weeks ago.
—Rev. Father O'Sullivan made a flying visit to Notre Dame on the 5th; he remained with us longer when he came on Monday with the Papal Envoys.
—Mr. E. P. Ederer, of the Chicago Wochenblatt, spent a few days at Notre Dame this week. Mr. Ederer is not only an editor but is also an excellent musician.
—Mr. M. Schlaudecker, of Chicago, the gentlemanly General Agent of the Derrick & Felgemaker Pipe Organ Co. for the Northwest, called upon us on Monday last.
Local Items.
—Examinations next week.
—Mr. Bonney is kept busy.
—Nothing but organ these days.
—Rev. Father Zahm sang his first Mass on Sunday last.
—The Grand Centra Hotel will be opened on the 21st.
—The Concert on the 7th was superior to that on the 6th.
—The premiums will be given on the 23rd, in the new Church..
—The new Stations were a theme of praise during the past week.
—Week after next, and the Band will play “Home sweet Home.”
—100 Students in the western study-hall got No. 1 for notes last week.
—Capt. Ben was on hand at the College during the excitement last Monday.
—On the 4th inst. the Quicksteps beat the Red Necks of New Lowell to the tune of 20 to 4.
—Joe says that his sore throat alone prevented his play ing an organ solo last Monday afternoon.
—The College was handsomely decorated with American and Papal flags on Monday and Tuesday last.
—The next number of the Scholastic will be issued on Wednesday, June 23rd—the Commencement Day.
—Lost, a post office key. The finder will confer a favor on the owner by leaving it at the printing office.
—The group photographs of the St. Cecilians and Philo-patrians look splendid.
—The Columbian Literary and Debating Club has more than a quorum on the roll of honor this week.
—We understand that the “Bear-dance music” is being rehearsed for an outside performance on Commencement Day.
—No, John, no; we can’t afford to take the contract for shaving you. Cats are not numerous just now, and milk is scarce I
—The Editor of the Scholastic thanks Mr. McQuaid, the floral gardener of South Bend, for two handsome fueshias.
—Mr. Bonney took a photograph of the members of the St. Cecilians on Tuesday last. They were dressed in the costumes of their play.
—Our friend John wants to know whether the new organ over in the new church is the novum organum of Bacon of which he hears so much?
572
THE SCHOLASTIC.
—The thanks of the Office are tendered to Thomas Geghan, Esq., for ice, which was kindly given by him. He is the person of whom you should buy your ice.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean and St. Stanislaus Phil-opatrian Societies have an equal number of names on this week’s roll of honor—26 of each.
—Mr. Bonney having had the honor of a sitting from the Papal Envoys, Mgr. Roncetti and Padre Ubaldi, when they visited Notre Dame, can now furnish photographs to all who desire them. They are, 8x10, 50 cents each; cabinet size, 25 cents.
—We were told, the other.day something which, as probably some of our readers have never heard, we give, making the spelling give the pronunciation as near as possible. An orator out West in a speech said that Skypio descended into Ahfrycah and wagged war with Hannibawl.
—At the 39th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, held -June 10th, a unanimous vote of thanks was tendered to Bros. Marcellinus, Celestine M. J. Oliver, Profs. Howard and Edwards, the members of the Orchestra and N. D. IT. C. Band,—and to Bros. Columb-kile and John Climacus for services rendered In preparing the Exhibition on Tuesday last.
—On last Wednesday afternoon the members of the Archeonfraternity assembled in the Infirmary and there partook of a feast given to them by Rev. Rather Golovin. Everything was served up in the best style, and reflects much credit on Sister Passion and her assistants. Rev. Father Golovin and Father Granger honored the Society by their presence. The members beg leave to return their sincere thanks to Rev. Father Golovin, and also to Sister Passion and her assistants for preparing it.”
—We were reminded that in our last number we made no mention of the tree just east of the old church which was blown down one day during the week. We own up to it; we missed saying anything about it; but as it is about the only local we have let slip during the year we plead that in mitigation. Our reporters keep their eyes and ears open, and generally let nothing escape. As it may be news to our readers not at Notre Dame, we now state that the storm on the 3rd was very great, but save the blowing down of the tree no damage was done.
—We are indebted to Mr. L. C. Watson, of ’72, for alate copy of the Detroit Free Press, fronTwhich we clip the following: “ Commencement Exercises at Notre Dame. •—The annual commencement exercises of the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, will take place this year on Tuesday and Wednesday, the 22d and 231 inst. A number of old Students and other Detroiters will be present at the grand exercises of this old, well-known and popular institution—one of the greatest universities of the Northwest, and which is noted for its imposing exercises on the annual commencement.”
—The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association held the 10th regular meeting of this Session last'Tuesday evening, Pmf. T. A. Dailey presiding. Many of the members who were to take part in the exercises being absent, the debate, essays, etc., were postponed, and the business of the evening consisted in arranging the affairs of the Society. There were committees appointed for various dudes, and matters relative to the welfare of the Society were discussed at length. It was decided to close the work of the year at the next meeting, when all the members of the Society, it is hoped, will attend, and when the officers will report. On motion of Mr. E. G. Graves, a vote of thanks was returned to Mrs. Sadlier for her kindness in sending to the Society the New York Tablet.
—It has been proposed to build in addition to the new steam house a building adjoining it, which will be large enough for a kitchen and a general refectory for all the students. If this building is erected it will extend back to the place now occupied by the stables, which will be torn down. By putting up this building the two large rooms now used as refectories will be then left at the disposal of the authorities. We do not know what will be done with them, but we have heard it said that one might beoccu-pied bythe General Library, and the other divided into two or three rooms to be used for the Circulating Library, the Museum, Reading-room, etc. In that case the present
library room could be used for an Art Gallery. The many beautiful works of art here at Notre Dame could then be displayed to much greater advantage. As it is, they are scattered around in so many rooms that is impossible that visitors see all of them.
—We have reeived from W. L. Kizer, Esq., Secretary of the South Bend Trotting Association, a ticket programme of the races to be held June 16th, 17th and 18th. The' first day’s purses are: No. 1, §700—for horses that have never trotted better than 3 min—1st premium, §350; 2nd premium, §200; 3rd premium, §150. No. 2, §750—for horses that have never trotted better than 2:30—1st premium, §400 ; 2nd premium, §200; 3rd premium, §150. No. 3, §300—running, mile heats, free to all—1st premium, §150; 2nd premium, §100; 3rd premium, §50. On the second day the purses are: No. 4, §1,000—for horses that have never trotted better than 2:25—1st premium, §550; 2nd premium, $300; 3rd premium, §150. No. 5, §400—pacing, free to all—1st premium, §225; 2nd premium, §125; 3rd premium, $50. No. 6, §250—running race, mile heats, best 3 in 5—1st premium, §125; 2nd premium, §75; 3rd premium, §50. On the third day the purses are: No. 7, §500—for horses that have never trotted better than 2:40—1st premium, §275; 2nd premium, §150; 3rd premium, §75. No. 8, §700— trotting, free to all—1st premium, §350; 2nd premium, §200; 3rd premium, §150. No. 9, §400—running, mile heats, weight for age—1st premium, §250; 2nd premium, $100; 3rd premium, §50. The races will no doubt be enjoyable affairs. ,
—June 2d a game of baseball for the championship was played, resulting in the following
Score:
JUANITA.
Gulliton...........
Logan..............
Campbell........... Seibert............ Busch.............. Lyons.............. Cruminey........... O’Brien............ Graves.............
Total...........
o.	B.	B.H.
3	4	1
3	4	0
1	4	1
2	3	0
2	2	1
5	1	0
3	1	1
4	2	0
4	2	3
27	23	7
STAR OF THE EAST.
Marks..............
Lonstorf...........
Monahan............
Soule..........-..
Devoto.....<......
Ratigan............
Ball................
Ryan...........i...
Watson!.............
Total..........
O. It. B.jH.
4 0 0
—The second game between the Star of the East and Jnanita nines for championship was played Tuesday, June 8th, with the following result:
Marks, r. f........
Lonstorf, 1 b......
Monahan, s. s......
Soule, 3 b.........
Devoto, c..........
Ratigan, 2 b.......
Ball, c.f..........
Ryan, p............
Watson, 1. f.......
Total..........
JUANITA.
0.	K.	B.H.
5	1	0
3	1	0
6	0	0
2	g	o;
3	2	0
2	2	0
1	3	2
2	3	0
3	1	0
27	16	2 1 ** •
STAR OF THE EAST.
o.	B.	B.H.
3	3	2
5	2	0
2	3	2
o	3	0
4	2	1
1	4	2
1	2	2
5	1	0
3	1	1
27	21	10
Culliton, lb... Logan, s. s.... Campbell, e. f, Seibert, c...... Busch, 2 b...., Lyons, r. f.... Cruminey, 1. f.. O’Brien, p..... Graves, 3 b....
Total
Umpire—J. S. Hayes, of Excelsior B. B. C.
Scorers—T. F. Hansard and J. M. Grace.
Time of game—2 hours, 40 minutes.
—The Junior picnic was a most delightful affair. At ten o’clock on Wednesday morning the whole Department formed ranks in their yard, and, preceded by the Band, they marched in procession around the Upper Lake and off to the “bottoms,” just south of the old brick-yard. There a long row of tables had been erected and everything prepared in order that the boys might recreate themselves to their hearts’ content. The boys enjoyed themselves hugely the few hours before dinner, and when dinner-
THE SCHOLASTIC.
573
i:
, time came they had appetites well sharpened for the meal The table was fairly loaded with good things: there were ham, and veal, and sandwitches, and all kinds of substan-tials; there were cakes, and pies, and ice-cream and any amount of dessert; and there was good, cold lemonade to wash them down, for the picnic was a strictly temperance one. After the boys had as much as they desired, and our friend John had eaten so many sand witches that “ then was the old man happy,” the picnickers betook themselves in all directions to amuse themselves either with baseball, fishing, or as they liked. Towards evening a grand lunch was spread and demolished; the “ bear dance ” was chanted, the Band played, and all started for the College with their hats decorated with beech or oak leaves. They reached home about half-past seven o’clock, all well pleased with their day of fun. Rev. Fathers Toohey and Hudson, Bro. Alban, Profs. Dailey, Edwards, and others, spent some time with the boys and were handsomely ■ treated. Rev. Father Golovin was unable to attend, but sent a letter of regret which was read on the grounds and greeted with applause.
The students desire us to return their thanks publicly to Bros. Marcellinus, Leander and Alexander, and indeed to all who had anything to do with the getting up of the picnic, for the great amount of enjoyment which they received. We are glad to see that the students are coming back again to the old custom of having picnics for the , whole Department and not for select crowds. There is 1 more enjoyment in these, and we hope that they will be given in this manner always.
—There is probably no book house in the West to which the people are more indebted for choice literature, than '	that of Jansen, McClurg & Co., of Chicago. This firm has
a national reputation, and the press all through the West have made their readers acquainted with its worth and character. Long ago, when Chicago w’as but a mere frontier town, in 1848, this house was established, under the ;	firm of S. C. Griggs & Co., and though many times burned
■	out, it has steadily progressed until to day it stands as the
:	largest and most popular of all in the West. Prior to the
?	destructive fire of 1871, they occupied what was conceded
by all to be the palace book-store of the continent; but in a few minutes that monument of wealth and luxury gave way to the destroying element, and was gone. But in the short space of one week the firm was again in operation, i this time in the fine private residence of Mr. Jansen, which ; alone was saved to him. When Booksellers’ Row again s rose in all its majesty they returned to their old quarters. Then it was that Mr. Griggs retired, and the firm name changed to Jansen,.McClurg & Co. A change of name signified but little; the old members were there, and ready to welcome the thousands who flocked to them with their patronage.
During a recent visit to their mammoth establishment, we were kindly shown the rooms by Mr. Jansen, who is ever ready to give any information desired by visitors and customers. Entering the main entrance, one is presented with' a busy scene, clerks and customers almost without number. This room is 50x150 feet in size, with lofty ceiling, literally filled with books, books, books. Great floods r' of light that pour in from the great plate-glass windows penetrate far down the store and light up the fiices of the - busy clerks, the thronging customers, the great piles of rich and many-colored wares on the counters, and glance along the overburdened shelves and the galleries above. Directly facing you, as you enter, is a very inviting little reading-room, railed off from the store, nicely carpeted, furnished with sofas, easy-chairs and tables, so that ladies can ex-amine at their leisure, books and articles they intend buying. A little to the right of this, is a showcase of albums. It is believed that not in this or any other country can be shown a line of similar goods surpassing this in richness. From the quality of the articles that meet your eye on every hand, you at once divine that fine, rare and costly goods occupy a prominent place in the transactions of this firm; and it is so.
—The concert in the new Church at Notre Dame, on the 6th, was very successful. There were quite a number of persons present from Niles, South Bend, and other places in the neighborhood, who enjoyed the treat given them.
The music was well rendered—indeed the whole concert was much more successful than was anticipated. Prof. Falk> of Chicago, executed a number of beautiful morceaux, bringing out all the fine qualities of the organ. Prof. Falk is a first-class organist, a graduate of the Conservatory of Leipsig.. His style is beautiful, his pedal execution truly wonderful, while his judgment in combining the different stops was excellent. Mrs. Falk sang the “Nightingale’s Trill,” by Ganz, in excellent style, and received the first round of applause. She possesses a high, clear soprano voice, which though not powerful is well trained. Her trills and cadenzas were in good taste and well executed. She afterwards sang, by special request, Schubert’s “Aoe Maria." The singing of Messrs. McLaughlin, O’Leary and Robertson was very good. The choruses were much better rendered than any other we have heard this past year; especially was this noticeable in “The Heavens are Telling.” The Band, with organ accompaniment, played the overture to “ Light Cavalry ” by Suppe, and “Ye Pretty Birds” by Gumbert, one of the most beautiful of the many pretty German songs; the organ rotes in both pieces, it is needless to say, were well rendered; the Band has been heard before in “Leichte Cavalerie,” which it gives very well for an amateur association, but “Ye merry Birds” was decidedly its best. The Orchestra, with organ accompaniment, played the Overtures to “Cenerentola” and “Zampa,” and appeared to better advantage than at any other time during the year. Prof. Paul of Notre Dame played the “Coronation March,” by Meyerbeer, in good style. The. Concert was very enjoyable, and every person who attended it expresses his pleasure in decided terms.
The following is the programme:
PART FIRST.
Overture—“Leichte Cavalerie,”—Suppe—Cornet Band and Organ.
Gloria—Gounods—Choral Union and Amateurs.
Organ Solo—Prof. Lewis Falk.
Song—“The Nightingale’s Trill,—Ganz—Mrs. Falk.
Overture—“ Cenerentola,”—Bossini—Orchestra and Organ. Organ Fugue—Bach—Prof. Falk.
PART SECON?.
“ Ye Pretty Birds,”— Gumbert—Band and Organ.
“ Sanctus,”—Gounod— Choral Union.
“ Ave Maria,—Schubert—Mrs. Falk.
“Coronation March,”—Prophete—Meyerbeer—Prof. D. Paul.
“ The Heavens are Telling,”—Creation—Haydn—Choral Union.
Overture—“ Zampa,”—Herold—Orchestra and Organ.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, W. Ball, G. Crum-mey, T. Carroll, W. Canavan, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C.Favey, J. Flaherty, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, H. Hunt, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, W. Hughes, A Hertzog, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, G. Kelly, P. Lawrence, J. Larkin, G. McNulty, W. McGavin, E. McLaughlin, P. Mc-Cawley, J. Marks, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, T. Murphy, J. Mathews, E. Monahan, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan, E. Marshall, J. Ney, T. O’Leary, C. Proctor, J. Betz, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, W. Schultheis, P. Shaul, W. Stout, J. Soule, J. Thornton, J. Whalen, F. Wilhelm, C. Walters, R. White, C. Welty. '
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, A. Buecker, A Betcher, W. Byrne, A. Bergck, G. Budd, J. Buckels, A. Burger, J. Crummey, J. Colton, J. Dore, J. Del Vecchio, N. Dryfoos, R. Downey, F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F.E.Foxen, G. Frauenknecht, J. French, F. Frazee, W. Edwards, J. T._ Foley, G. J. Gross, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, E. D. Gleason, F. Hoffman, W. Hansard, C. Hake, H. Harvey, J. Haffey, C. H. Hitchcock, M. Kramer, J. P. Kurtz, M. Katzauer, H. Korty, F. Kleiner, W. Kreigh, H. Kinson, C. V. Larkin, C. E. Leonhardt, G. J. Lonstorf, J. Lynch, P. McBride, A. H. Mitchell, J. McIntyre, T. McNamara, R. - McGrath, J. P. McHugh, H. McGuire, J. Minton. W. G. Morris, M. J. Murphy, W Nicholas, W. P. Nelson, R. Norris, C. Ottoway, D. J. O’Connell, C. Peltier, C. R. Post, L. Pilliod, J. L. Perea, H. W. Quan, E. F. Riopelle, A. Reinke, W. Stich-tenoth, E. Stichtenoth, J. A. Smith, A. Schmidt, E. Sugg, G.
5U
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Sngg, T. J. Solon, P. Schnurrer, H. Sickel, N. Vanamee, C. "Walsh, H. "Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. R. Willis, R. J. Walker, J. E. Wood, G. Woodward, F. J. Weisenburger, E. Washburn, J. K. Jones, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, J. D. O’Hara, O. Meyers, G. R. Serrill, W. Roelle, A. Pilliod, O. Ludwig, W. Smith, J. Nelson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Walter Cunningham, Edward Raymond, Colly Clarke, Ralph Golsen, Michael McAuliffe, Colly Campau, Samuel Goldsberry, Francis McGrath, Francis Carlin, Otto Lindberg, Clement Moody, John Duffield, Louis Goldsmith, Albert J. Bushey, Harley McDonald, Francis Campau, Willie Coolbaugh, Charlie Bushey.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JUNE 10.
MODERN LANGUAGES AND FINE ARTS.
Law—P. H. Skahill, J. Crummey, R. Staley, E. Seibert.
Medicine—E. McPharlin, G. Crummey, J. O’Connell.
Civil Engineering—C. M. Proctor.
German—G. Roulhac. A. Schmidt, A. O’Brien, W. Schultheis, C. Whipple, J. Golsen, E. Sugg, G. Sugg, W. Nelson, C. Welty, J. Soule, I. Dryfoos, J. Marks, A. Leitelt, W. Ball, H. McGuire, M. Katzauer, M. Kramer, P. Shaul, C. Robertson, H. Korty, N. Dryfoos, E. Stichtenoth, C. Larkin, F. Hoffman, C. Walsh, J. Berringer, R. Norris, J. Leitelt, E. Ratigan, W. Roelle, F. McGrath, E. McPharlin, J. Lyons, R. McGrath, T. McNamara, J. Grace, W. Byrne, R. Golsen, E. Washburn.
French—A. Hertzog, W. Morris, G. Gross, J. Minton, L Best, J. Del Vecchio, F. Smyth, J.F. O’Connell, J. O’Hara.
Drawing—J. Kurtz, J. Carrer, E. Graves, R. McGrath, P. Lawrence, A. Schmidt, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, J. Lambin, C. M. Proctor, G. Sugg, G. Frauenknecht, J. Lynch, J. Duffield, H. Kinson, R. Golsen,-E. Raymond.
Telegraphy—J. Wood W. Stout, W. Hughes, T. Carroll, J. McIntyre, T. Logan, H. Korty, R. Norris, J. Retz.
Music—N. Dryfoos, E. Stichtenoth, H. Cassidy, W. Ball, G. Serrill, W. Schulthies, W. Nelson, C. Otto, F. Schlink, J. Campbell, A. Reinke, G. Frauenknecht, E. Sugg, G. Sugg. A.Lonstorf, C. Leonhaidt, H. Quan, T. O’Leary, C. Clarke, T. Quinn, J. Thornton, F. Kleiner, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, W. Stichtenoth, W. Morris, C. Robertson, H. Sickel, G. Gross, M. Regan, J. Colton, J- Lynch, I. Dryfoos, R.Maas, F. Hoffman, M. Murphy, J. Del Vecchio, A. Schmidt, G. Roulhac, O. Ludwig, J. Lyons, C. Welty, W. Byrne, J. McHugh, N. Watson, J. Berringer, E. Maas, A. Pilliod.
Band—G. Roulhac, T. O’Leary, E- Maas, G. Crummey, H. Hunt, J. Kennedy, F. O’Brien, J. Crummey, E. McLaughlin, T. Cochrane, J. Campbell.
Vocal Music—N. Mooney, G. Kelly, E. Riopelle, T. O’Leary, J. Brown, T. Quinn, F. Foxen, F. Devoto, A. Pilliod.
minim department.
Tommie Hooley, Albert Bushey, Francis Campau, Hugh Colton, Willie Lindsay, Willie Van Pelt, Harry Ordway, Willie Cash, Louis Goldsmith, PeterNelson, Willie Coolbaugh, Harley McDonald, Sylvester Bushey, Charlie Bushey, Frank Schwuchou.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
—Miss Katie Zell, a graduate of 1873, is on a visit to St. Mary’s.
—The great Chicago organist, Mr. L. Falk, and his accomplished lady, were at St. Mary’s on Monday evening.
—The competition in orthography which took place in the exhibition hall on Tuesday the 2d inst., resulted in the triumph of Miss Josephine Locke, who bore off the prize— a pretty volume of “ Fleurange.”
—For the beautiful white marble table, or pedestal for the parian statue in the Academy front parlor, St. Marv’s tenders her most sincere thanks to the gentleman (Mr. . Schultheis, of Detroit, Mich.) who so skilfully carved and so kindly presented the most acceptable and pious gift. May the Queen of Heaven, for love of whom it was given, impart a rich return.
—On Friday, the fourth inst., the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Ft. Wayne, accompanied by Rev. Father Borg, came to St. Mary’s, the Bishop giving a beautiful sermon atjthe Benediction of that evening. On Saturday morning he said Mass in the Chapel of the Immaculate Conception, and
• administered Confirmation to thirteen young ladies. He
also gave another eloquent sermou, illustrating the nature of the Sacrament, in a most lucid and attractive manner.
ABT NOTES.
—A few weeks ago, when Mr. Schultheis of Detr^ visited St. Mary’s, he noticed a statuette of the Blest Virgin, in marble, standing on a small table in the Aca. emy parlor, and which he said was really not as nice as i should be for the Blessed Virgin, although it had a marble top. On the 7th of June Mr. Schultheis again visited St. Mary’s, bringing with him, as the work of his own hand, a beautiful round table, wholly of white marble, absolutely spotless, on which to place this statuette of the Immaculate Conception! A more beautiful or appropriate gift could not have been devised for the Blessed Virgin as she stands in the Academy parlor, and we trust it will bring to Mr. Schultheis—what every mark of affection and respect to the Blessed Virgin always brings, a rich blessing and many spiritual favors. The stone which supports the polished top is adorned with religious symbols. On one is an I. H. S. in monogram, and a cross; on another, the Sacred Heart, with a cross ,• on another M and rays of glory from above; and on the fourth, the Lamb of the Holy Sacrifice and the sacrificial chalice, with rays of glory—the whole stem encircled by a wreath of ivy clasped with an I. H. S. It is a work of Catholic art and of Catholic devotion. We are happy to add that Mr. Schultheis’ little daughter has a place in St. Luke’s Studio, and bids fair to paint something in honor of the Blessed Virgin by the time she is a Child of Mary; perhaps a banner!
—If anyone wishes to know: “ Of what use is art in the world, excepting to give the world pictures ? ” he should have been at St. Mary’s at the reception of the Papal Envoys. From the beginning to the end it was an illustration of the manner in which art ideas enter into every occasion and beautify every event. The very arrangement of a procession like the one which was seen winding among the trees and shrubbery on the morning of the 8th ■ of June at St. Mary’s, is a work of art. It was not a K mere matter of chance that two little girls in white, one B; with a rose-red and white sash, the other with a blue and K white sash, walked at the head of the procession, carrying B-banners of white silk on which were paintings from hands B. at St. Mary’s; on one of these, banners the Papal arms in B-the Papal colors, on the other the arms of the United B States in the colors of the Union, with the eagle for itt B ; crest, and bearing in one set of strong talons the arrows B i of war, in the other the olive-branch of peace, while hold- B i ing aloft in his beak the wreath of victory. Neither was is B i a matter of chance which arranged in such graceful lines the B j pupils of all the departments; with the novices and Sis- B: ters giving dignity to the long train. This slowly moving B (: line of fair colors and grave, looked, among the foliage, as B > seen from above, like a ribbon or illuminated scroll in the B i midst of this smiling landscape so rich in sunshine, in Ki verdure, in the blue of the water and the blue of the sky. The dew had only dried from the grass when the long-ex- B• pected and ever to be honored Envoys of the Father of ■■; Christendom were met, as we have described, where the two roads leading to the Academy divide the domain be-tween them, and where two very beautiful arches wished long life to the Holy Father and welcomed his Envoys 11s The distinguished guests were accompanied by Rt. Rev Bishop Dwenger, Very Rev. Father General, Very Re- ■Kj Father Provincial, Rev. Fr. Daniel Riordan, Chancell.
to Rt. Rev. Bishop Foley of Chicago, Rev. Fr. Sulliv? Hj of Laporte, Rev. Fr. Cooney, C. S. C., and Rev. Fr. Vag, B, ier, C. S. C., the Rev. Chaplain at St. Mary’s. As th<. B procession, on its winding course, hit the southern gate oi B the Rosary Garden, it turned through a festive arch into " ■ -the pleasant walks, past Trinity arbor and the fountain in ■> full play; and just at this point of most artistic proprieties -W.. the double line of the procession parted to either side ■ leaving the group from which gleamed the Roman purple to pass through these lines towards the grand entrance to	IJ
the Academy. Over this door, the benignant face of Pio	I
Nono, with a “ Welcome” in letters of gold, and draped on	1
one side with the Papal colors, and the other with the col-	I
ors of the Union, looked down on his own messengers of	1
peace, of good will and of blessing to his children in the	I
United States, and in one moment more those messengers z
€
THE SCHOLASTIC
575
1:
stood within the walls, and were sheltered by’the roof of St. Mary’s.
It was with a feeling of untold exultation and gratitude -.that we saw these Envoys of the Fisherman in our midst. Thirty-three years ago, on the Sth of June, not one belonging to the Order of the Holy Cross had set foot on a domain with only the first sod, as it were, of the pioneers broken in advance of them: and to-day, hundreds of fervent religious, of enthusiastic pupils, go forth to receive and to bring to their spacious halls the Envoys of Rome herself, who have turned directly out of their route of travel to pay this mark of good will to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s! Should we not have had hearts less than human not to have felt them swelling with gratitude and exultation at such a scene?
„ After a pause in the Academy parlor, which allowed an opportunity for a special presentation to the Envoys, and a special blessing, they were conducted to the Exhibition Hall, which we found really beautifully decorated. The festoons of fine cedar-twigs were relieved by wreaths made of large leaves, in a way to produce an agreeable contrast, and the rude work of the pioneer building was so draped as to be pleasing to the eye; while upon this scene also looked down the same benignant face of Pius IN. Music, addresses in French as well as English, and from Juniors and Minims as well as Seniors, greeted the Envoys to America and to St. Mary’s, and eloquently expressed the lively sympathy felt by Catholics in America for the sorrows of the Holy Father. To these, Monsignor Ron-cetti replied in French, in a manner to delight everyone. Indeed nothing could exceed the urbanity of the Italian ecclesiastics.
The addresses, when handed to Monsignor Roncetti, were found adorned not only with beautiful penmanship, but with exquisitely painted designs. Everything had been the work of devoted hands, and of devoted hearts, which could not do too much to express the joy which was felt at this visit. Every inscription, every cover for the addresses, and every banner had been painted for this occasion, and if St. Mary’s is to go on with such artistic welcomes, she will need a corps of finished artists such as belongs to no mere academy corps of teachers. She has plumed herself for a flight which must now be sustained ; and, if sustained, St. Mary’s will have a School of art, in that sense of the word in which Umbria had hers, although a small state among the mountains of Italy. It will be, if true to what it shows itself capable of, and if due accessions
73 . L'fi
1
are made to its band of artists, a religious school of art to which we can look for windows and banners; banners that will give us all the Mysteries of the Rosary for some procession, and all the mysteries of the Liturgical Year. The singular advantages for a school of art possessed by St. Mary’s would seem to make it a work of obligation, as it can certainly be esteemed one of piety. We hope, sometime, to see a Child of Mary painting a banner for that Virgin Mother under whose patronage they pass such peaceful years at St. Mary’s, in whose honor they now sing so many canticles of praise, and under whose protection they will soon pass out to the labors and duties of a life in the world. Let some of these children of Mary put before themselves such a work of devotion to the Blessed Virgin as was given to the Holy See and the Successor of St. Peter in the banners and addresses of to-day; remembering that through all the eighteen hundred years of ■ Christianity no science and no art has laid so many offerings at the feet of the Church, of her Divine Founder and of His Blessed Mother, as the art which has built a nest for itself in St. Luke’s Studio, and the Community Studio and Scriptorium at SL Mary’s; while the festivities of to-day prove that the germs of this art are all at St. Mary’s. When shall we see an efflorescence worthy of the happy combination of circumstances which certainly exists here ?
We take it as a blessing on the Art Department that the Papal Banner was formally blessed by Monsignor Roncetti. After this it will be our own fault if the flowers of art do not come forth to drink in the sunshine and the dew of Papal favor.
With all these pleasant incidents to record, we can never cease to regret that the beloved Mother Superior, did not have her usual place in this picture cf innocent happiness at St. Mary’s on the 8lh of June, 1875.
CONSERVATORY OP MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Foote, E. O’Connor, Henrotin and Haggerty.	.
2nd Div.—Misses B. Spencer and J. Riopelle.
2nd Class—Misses Cavenor, Wicker, Kearney, Riley.
2nd Div.—Misses Smith, Locke, Arnold, Dougherty and West.
3rd Class—Misses Morgan, T. 'Gaynor, Kirchner, S. Edes, E. Eles, I. Edes, A. Walsh, M. O’Connor.
2nd Div.—Misses Cash, Bennett, L. Walsh, King and Koch.
THE ART SCHOOL.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRAWING.
1st Class—Miss R. Neteler.
4th Class—Misses A. Cullen, E. Lange, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, E. Lappin, A. Koch, P. Gaynor ana M. Schultheis.
5th Class—Misses M. O’Connor, L. Kirchner, J. Kreigh, E. Colwell.
WATER-COLOR PAINTING.
3rd Class Miss L. Ritchie.
4th Class—Misses B. Wade and C. Morgan.
5th Class—Misses L. Henrotin and N. McAuliffe.
•	TABLET OF HONOR.
For the Week Ending June 5.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	‘
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct. Deportment and strict observance' of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled:
Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, L. Dragoo, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, M. Daily, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, M. Brady, L. Kelly, S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Pritchard, R. Neteler, P. Gaynor, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, A. Byrne, M. Roberts, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson, E. Mann, E. Poquette, S. Hole, M. Sheil, M. Gaynor, C. Morgan, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, E. McFarlane, D. Cavenor, S. Raising, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, L. Johnson, D. Allen, N. King, C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, S. Swalley, L. Ryan.
—The memory should be a storehouse, not a lumberroom.
—The Chicago Public Library has 26,000 volumes. The National Library of Paris has 2,000,000 voumes. It is estimated that the public libraries of the United States contain 20,000,000 volumes.
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Conmnub at
P. L, GARRITY’S
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-
Pine Mixed Candy -	-	-
Choice Mixed Candy -	-
Caramels -	-	-	-	-
Molasses and Cream Candy -
15e.
■ 25c. 35c.
- 35e 35c
Proportionately Low Prices to AVLioIe-sale Casli Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass tlie Door.
’	o24-tf
576	THE SCHOLASTIC.		£
pALMER & Vanwinkle, Dealers in	JRELAND & SON,	’ proprietors op LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,	F
(JOIN Jd’KCTLOlSI Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.	No. 54r MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH SEND, IND., (.Opposite the Dwight House). HACK JLHN3S To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	^o24-2m	%
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf	“THE NINE CENT STORE!” DROP in at “THE MME CENT STORE!«	
p DUBAIL,	- * BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER, 71 Washington St., -	-	- South, Bend, Ind.		■ I it
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College at 9 o’clodk A. M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf	See the Curiosities. No. 114 Michigvn Stbbet, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.	.'•I L
	THE OLD «RELIABLE ” DWIGHT HOUSE, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. "1\ 4"ESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the JYL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling pnblic may rely on finding the best accommodation. Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre D wne and St. Mary’s wil find here all the comforts of home during their stay, JERRWKNIGHT,) Prnri„;ntn ' Captain MILLS, [Proprietors. o24-tf	
JJR. C. H. MIDDLETON, , DENTIST,	. 109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana. o24-tf		■
^DWARD BUYSEE, “■	Dealer in	. WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,		
76 Michigan Street, .	South Bend, Indiana.	POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE! 	o		-	
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. J^-tf
HANAUER,
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan’ Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ BURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
M. LIVINGSTON & C01, 91 Mlcliigaii St., So\itli Eeml, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock o FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
FURNISHING GOODS,
All goods sold are guaranteed,
o24-tf
JAMES.BONNEY,
[PHOTOGRAPHER,
. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., Over Coonley's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the
University, members of the College Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring I
■	o24-tf
E. MAYR, .	'
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old gnglish, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
decl-^tf.
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always he found on our shelves. Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce hut Clotliing is Clieaj*. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our NLereliaiit Tailoi’ing Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Glottis, Cassi-meres and ‘Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
•	For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT, 99 MAIN STREET, - -	- SOUTH SEND, INDIAN A
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!
0^" Fresh Candies Made Daily.