Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 2, 1878.
Number 23.
Wanderings of a Mind.
i.
I've been roaming, wildly roaming
Where the Lion hath his lair, And the Western Winds are combing—
Combing Berenice’s Hair;	■
Where fierce Ursa Major rageth,
And Orion’s hands are full, As unceasing strife he wageth With the zodiacal Bull.
ii.
I’ve been stalking, gravely stalking
Up and down the Milky Way,
Where the Asteroids are talking ’
Of obtaining “rec. ” to-day;
But I calm their mad commotion
With a mild paternal frown, And they lay aside the notion, • As I’m bound to put it down, in.
I’ve been ranging, gaily ranging
Through the backward flight of years, And I hear the never-changing
Solemn music of the spheres ;
Andromeda and Centaurus
And Bootes with his aunt, All are joining in the chorus
Of that grand Gregorian chant.-
IV.
I’ve been snorting, fairly snorting
Like a war-horse in the field—
In the field our fathers fought in
Till they forced the foe to yield;
Upon old Ticonderoga,
And likewise Tippecanoe, And Tyler too with his toga—
They are looming into view.
N. B.—The writer of the above is unfortunately still at labge.
Shall it Ever be Thus?	.
A Moral Tale.
CHAPTER THE FOURTH AND LAST.
Carpets were soiled, and housewives discontented;
They wept their wrongs through slow revolving moons, Until some heaven-born genius invented
Spittoons.—Cornelius d Lapide.
The catastrophe which we hinted might be possible in a previous number of the Scholastic has been realized. The author of the tale has been removed to an asylum for the insane, and it now devolves upon us to finish up the story in the best way we can.
The editor of a newspaper has no more ungracious task than to have to finish the work rashly undertaken by some incompetent contributor. In such cases as this especially, where the contributor, through an unexpected recovery of the use of his reasoning faculties, may perhaps return to active life and find a cherished tale concluded by a denouement the very opposite to that which he had intended, how fierce will be his rage against that child of necessity, the editor! And in this ungodly wrath all the readers of the paper will unite. They will all blame the editor for being so’precipitate. Oh! why is it that the value of an editor is not appreciated as it was in the days of genial old Horace? Listen to the glowing enthusiasm with which he speaks of The Weekly Maecenas, the periodical in which his beautiful poems first appeared, and whose editors he regards as fitting ancestors for kings:
Macenas atoms edite regibus, 0 et presidium, et dulce decus meum.
Yes: in those times an editor was not a mere slave! But to our task.
The reader will easily enough perceive that the entrance of the Orientalist would naturally explain the ambiguities which surrounded the position of Von Lunchengrab. As for Foxenthaler, we do not know precisely what to do with him, as his story about., the diamond sausage is certainly very plausible, and he can make it evident that he killed Wolfgang in self-defence. Let us hope that the Mayor also did not know what to do about it. The best way of providing the necessaries of life in future for Von Lilnchengrab, would be to have a rich aunt die and leave him all her wealth. But our readers may do as they see fit about this. We do not intend to make the editorial chair a synonym for tyranny or despotism, nor would we rashly condemn an innocent, though wealthy, aunt to death, unless with the unanimous support of our readers.
The great difficulty, it seems to us, is to bring in the moral. It is evident that the intention of the unfortunate author was to bring in the moral sooner or later, and as this is our last chapter, it must be now or never. Perhaps it is enough for us to know in general that this is a moral tale, as its title imports, without seeking too curiously after the special moral to.be conveyed. Works like this should be read in a submissive spirit. They will make a moral impression somewhere, although we may not be able to lay our finger on the exact spot. Only let us peruse it humbly, attentively and thankfully, taking a great deal on faith, and remembering that we cannot always utter our deepest feelings in mere verbiage.
Now with regard to Von Schrinckenbach, he would evidently be sent for from the police office as soon as the story of Foxenthaler was heard, and the diamond sausage would be returned to him, minus the diamonds secreted by the
1
354
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
legerdemain of those through whose fortunate hands it passed. Still, there would be quite enough left to secure his maintenance for the term of his natural life, and the Mayor would say, as he handed back the booty: “ Now, sir, I hope experience has taught you never again to assume a disguise.” And Von Schrinckenbach would perhaps cast out this base passion of fear from his breast, and recalled by adversity to nobler ends and aimg, would become a worthy and honored member of society. The Shadder would pass imperceptibly away, taking advantage of the popular excitement occasioned by the development of the Von Schrinckenbach affair.
When it was all over the Mayor would naturally invite the Orientalist to come in and take a smoke, and talk over the matter. And then they would repair to the newly carpeted and furnished Blue Room, where everything would soon look bluer than ever. For the Orientalist, taking a cushion from the sofa, would place himself crossed-legged thereon, and filling his many-convoluted pipe from the Mayor’s la-takieh would begin to smoke, gazing about him in a dreamy manner, oblivious of the present, and contemplative of the vicissitudes of human affairs as exemplified in the events of the previous night. And when that excitation of superfluous saliva which is the natural result of smoking would supervene, regardless of his surroundings, he would simply discharge it at random in a beautiful parabolic orbit—beautiful in all but its termination.
And the Lady Mayoress rustling restlessly with anxiety for the fate of her new furniture, would thereupon sign to an obsequious attendant to arm himself with a costly vase —costly and rich in exterior, but inwardly devoted to the receptivity of expectorational deposits—and by dextrous dodging to intercept the offensive objects in their parabolic flight, ere the carpet bore the brunt.
But the Orientalist, fixing his attention on the splendor of the vase, would suppose that the obsequious attendant was exhibiting it as a work of art, and would admire it at first, until the incessant, and apparently purposeless movements of the obsequious attendant would have excited his animadversion, and then he would naturally exclaim:
“ May it please your worship, Herr Mayor Von Schmall-beer, much as it grieves me to reflect invidiously upon any of your domestic arrangements, yet I must say that if that obsequious attendant does not stop dodging so pertinaciously around me with that elegant vase, I shall certainly __”
And here an earthquake must occur and engulf the whole city, for we know of no other way to avert the recurrence of a stale joke, and that, of course, is not to be thought of for a moment.
This might be a very good conclusion for the tale; but if our readers think it ought to be extended a little, we might have the Shadder come in and make a few remarks by way of soliloquy over the ruins. We are sorry to restrict our readers’ choice to the Shadder, but as the other characters are all engulphed, what alternative have we ? It might do here too, to have some reference to the name of the story, which might be effected by having the Shadder, standing on the brink of the abyss and gazing down into it, ask:
“Shall it Ever be Thus?”
To which Echo, being in an unusually discursive mood, might reply:
Ah, ever thus, from childhood’s hour I’ve seen my fondest hope decay ■
I never loved a tree or flower But ’twas the first to fade away.
I never nursed a dear gazelle, For very obvious reasons why, But if I had, I know too well, Sooner or later, it would die.
Now, if any of our readers are not satisfied with this affecting conclusion, we can only recommend them to finish the story their own way. That is all.
The End.
The Catholic School Question.
[It is with more than ordinary pleasure we publish the letter given below, written by the pastor of one of the most flourishing parishes in this diocese. We willingly grant the use of our columns to the clergy of the diocese for the discussion of the question treated in the letter, and second the suggestion contained in its closing paragraph. —Ed. Scholastic.]
Diocese of Fort Wayne, Ind., Jan. 23,1878. Editor “Notre Dame Scholastic ”:
Dear Sir:—Our brief conversation on the 24th of last June in regard to the need of system in the general direction and government of our Parochial Schools has suggested many things to my mind, that daily, more and more, impress me with the necessity and importance of establishing some organization which would be able to deal successfully with this neglected subject. The rapid multiplication of our parochial schools, whilst a source of great satisfaction to our Bishops and Priests, as it is at the same time an exponent of their wonderful zeal, necessarily demands corresponding exertions and corresponding resources in government to enable them to execute effectively the sacred duties entrusted to their charge.
Through the inspiring influence of Holy Church we possess a unity of purpose that cannot be diverted from its object; but, for some mysterious reason, we possess no similar unity of action. We have numerous Catholic schools throughout the land, but no system of Catholic schools, and while our forces are so disjointed the great work of Catholic education cannot even be appreciated by ourselves. The money and labor exhausted, so productive of good as far as applied, are adequate for much more valuable results. We leave our work half done—or rather we resemble the farmer who clears away the rubbish from the rough soil, who'plows and sows and labors, but neglects to gather in the rich fruits of the harvest—always working and always poor.
So far there has not been enough offered the public,to warrant us in saying that the want of a central body for the general government of the schools, which we may call a Diocesan School Board, is extensively felt. We are still in the dark as to how the subject has been considered by the parties most interested. Hence we feel that any remark of ours may be “inopportune” and verge on presumption, since the subject continues to draw so little expression from those whose influence and responsibility should make them the leaders in an enterprise of this kind, were there a pressing need for such an organization.
But since you have so kindly opened the pages of The Scholastic for the discussion of the matter, and since also some very valuable suggestions have been already offered, which show that this want is felt by more than one party and in more than one locality, I do not hesitate to offer my
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
355



views, simply for what they are worth, however crude they may be.
Before going further, let me endeavor to put in form what we mean by a Diocesan School Board. We mean a sufficient number of competent persons acting entirely under the authority of the Bishop, with power granted by him to supervise and direct all the general affairs of the schools of the Diocese. For such a board there lies open a broad and useful field, now totally unoccupied. At present the several pastors provide for the support and government of their separate schools. This is as far as they can go. These duties must still devolve on them. But besides the support and local government of schools, a large opportunity exists for improvement outside of and beyond the detached labors of the pastors, which never can be attempted, much less accomplished, without a central body, possessing the required authority and capable of giving united and solid direction to the work of all the schools of the diocese.	-
Were it not for the superior intelligence of the pastors, which now supplies so largely the deficiency of systematic government, our schools would stand in about the same position as the public schools would be, were there no higher provision made for their control than the appointment of local school directors. We can easily imagine how soon our orators would be obliged to drop the glowing paragraph on public schools from their Fourth of July orations Were this all that is done. But “ the children of this world are w'iser in their generation than the children of light.”
The appointment of a Diocesan School Board would furnish us the means of executing a large amount of valuable and necessary work, for the benefit of our schools, that cannot possibly be done in any other way. The most prominent of these duties that present themselves to my mind at the moment are:
I	.—The examination of all teachers, both religious and secular.
II	.—The collection and publication of an annual report, condensed from the reports of all the schools of the Diocese.
III	.—The gradual introduction of a uniform series of Catholic text-books to all the schools of the Diocese.
IV	.—The uniform and general introduction of the best methods of teaching the several branches, and the development of a uniform system of public examination of pupils.
V	.—The arbitration of any difficulties between teachers and parties, that might be referred to them.
VI	.—The plan of creating, preserving and disbursing a Diocesan School Fund, etc. Also whatever else might appear to be for the general good of the schools, which cannot be done by pastors in their separate capacities. It certainly should not be a very difficult matter to convince all pai'ties interested that the examination of teachers ought to be considered a matter of the utmost importance. If it adds nothing to their teaching capacity, it will certainly give them a feeling of dignity and authority that will increase their influence in dealing with the people. Besides, there is no reason to think that our teachers as a body are so much superior to all other classes of mankind that responsibility to an examination board would not contribute to their improvement. But
the loss of time and money, the labor and inconvenience, both to teachers and members of the board, arising from a system of examination, might be considered insurmountable obstacles in its way. We think that the work can be done with more limited expenditures of these valuable possessions than might at first sight be imagined. The examination of religious teachers might take place at their respective homes, at the end of their annual retreat; that of secular teachers might be held at different points in the diocese, where the least expense possible might be incurred in reaching the place. The trite axium, “ Where there is a will there is a way,” will prove itself correct in this case as in so many others. These examinations, in a short time, could be so improved that it would become a high honor, both in the Church and out of it, to be a licentiate of a Catholic School Board.
The publication of the report, which should be presented to the Bishop each year, could be made a most valuable auxiliary both to Bishop and pastors, and a source of great edification to the people. Enough copies might be published to supply all the schools, and, besides, enough sent to each congregation to be distributed to the more intelligent and interested of the laity. Nothing could tend to create a more laudable emulation amongst our schools than a reliable report of this kind. Whilst it would enlighten the people on that which they so greatly need, it would be also a compendium of all the facts required by the Bishop and the School Board for the improvement of the whole school system. To the report might be added the rules. and regulations adopted by the Board; plans and suggestions for the better government of schools; a synopsis of the different methods pursued by the various pastors for the support of their schools, so that, being generally known, an improvement might be made in some particular cases, or a better plan than any might be developed. If the Board did nothing more than produce a complete annual report, even as our schools now stand, it would be a work of the utmost value. Can our Bishop know the true state of our schools under the present want of system and in the absence of all reports ? He cannot. It would be an absolute impossibility. Do all the pastors exert themselves to their best in providing, supporting and improving schools? We feel quite safe in saying that all . pastors think they do their best, but we are none the less convinced that had they, every year, a full report of the diocesan schools, many would see how far they are behind; that they are equalled or surpassed by men of less ability than themselves, and by congregations of less means than their own.
A uniformity of Catholic school-books, and their introduction to all the schools, are matters of no small consideration, both as to economy and the means of sound instruction. A numerous class of our people move from place to place to seek employment and better their condition ; but, met by a diversity of school-books wherever they go, a useless and grievous tax is imposed upon them.
The Catholic school that attempts to impart a good Catholic eduation by the use of the ordinary readers, geographies and histories used in the public schools, must to a great extent fail in its mission. The child that is taught to read in a book replete with lessons of sound morality, true history and the correct biography of the great Catholics of former times, must have a far more valuable quality of information than the child who is taught in a book expressly prepared to exclude everything of a religious nature.
I
356	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Any judicious attempt to improve the methods of teaching must always be attended with practical benefits. We are far behind the public-school managers iu making these efforts. Nothing is done to arouse our teachers to selfimprovement. A few years in a parochial school very often renders the teacher unfit to conduct any school. The same could be said of the public-school teachers, did not the public examination and the public institute keep before the teacher’s mind the necessity of study and labor, in order to keep up, at least, to the required standard of a teacher’s qualifications. Besides this: In the same congregation, where schools are divided and conducted by different religious orders or different secular teachers, the children of the same family meet around the table for evening studies with incongruities of method that can be of no valuable advantage, but in some cases may be a downright detriment.
Perhaps nothing would contribute to the elevation of our schools more than a system of public examinations, the results graded and published in the annual report, so as to bring the standard of proficiency in all the schools face to face.
Such a state of perfection in the direction of our schools as this would imply, may not be reached at once, but it is no harm to hope for it.
When we say that the arbitration of difficulties between pastors and teachers might be referred to the Diocesan School Board, we do not wish to infringe on any of the rights and powers given the pastors by the statutes of the Diocese. While the pastor must always have full control in the government of his schools, and in the employment and discharge of his teachers, there yet may arise cases wherein it would be a great relief, both to pastor and teacher, could difficulties be settled by a competent, disinterested outside party.
The plan of creating a Diocesan School Pund must be of slow operation, yet it must enter any system contemplating general superintendence on the very outset. Time, study, perseverance and a more general interest on the par-of clergy and laity in school affairs may solve the problem. At present we are required to look only for our immediate wants. Prom the Catholic Directory of 1877 we learn that there are fifty-three parochial schools in our Diocese. It would be a moderate average to say that each school equals one hundred pupils. The small sum of five cents per annum for each child now in school would give two hundred and sixty-five dollars; a sum sufficient to pay the necessary expenses of stationery and postage, and leave enough besides to pay for the publication of a very fair edition of the first annual report of the Diocesan School Board.
The next consideration is, how to put a plan of this kind into operation. The first step to be taken is to find whether it be desirable or necessary. Perhaps we are only dreaming, influenced by an imaginary want. It would be a very easy matter for all who feel any interest in the undertaking to express their opinions to you. Should a favorable expression be received, steps must be taken to lay it before the Bishop, whose judgment on the general wants of the diocese must be more exact than that of any one else. Should it appear to him useful and necessary to provide a Diocesan School Board, his authority alone can give it existence. A committee can be appointed by him to complete an outline of the system to be adopted.. When a satisfactory result is reached, he can appoint the mem
bers of the board and grant.the authority to discharge their duties. At the same time a circular can be issued by the Bishop, having the force of a diocesan statute, presenting in brief the duties to be discharged by the Board and defining the extent of its jurisdiction over the schools, and also making it of obligation on all parties:
I.—That all teachers in parochial schools must have a certificate of qualifications from the Diocesan School Board.
II.—That each pastor shall send to the Board a full report of his school on or before a fixed date.
III.—That each pastor shall remit to the treasurer of the Diocesan School Fund the sum of----------cents for every child who attends his school that school year, on or before the---------------------------------day of-.
IV.—That the Diocesan School Board shall hold an examination of teachers, etc. (Time and place to be determined.)
V.—That the Diocesan School Board shall present a full report of all the schools in the diocese to the Bishop on or before the------day of------each year.
VI.—That the obligations imposed on the laity (whatever they may be) to send their children to Catholic schools, when possible, must be carried out, and put in force by all pastors.
Besides these duties, others of grave importance present themselves, which cannot be met without a united effort. Something must be done to interest the people more strongly than heretofore, in the care of the schools. Should the clergy and religious orders cease their exertions, what would be the consequence? Yet the people, engrossed by their own anxious affairs, are not so much to blame for their indifference. What has been done to arouse the interest of the people in the improvement of their schools ? We have nothing established to arrest their attention or challenge their respect. Our parochial schools have grown to their present proportions from a few children around the priest’s knees in some private house after the monthly Mass, or gathered in the vestry of a congregation fortunate enough to possess a little church, by the constant and unfailing labors of the priests themselves. They have been supported by the contributions of the more Catholic spirited and generous of the people, by the reduced compensation of the teachers, whose charity in many noble instances should not be forgotten; but most of all, by the sacrifices of the pastors, who have frequently expended their own hard-earned and meagre salaries in support of the parish schools. Whilst our people were poor and disorganized no other course could be pursued, but the time has at least partly arrived when the Catholic laity must be led to take a more active part in the care of their schools.
Your remarks in the Scholastic of Jan. the 19th, that the Catholic press of the country should agitate the question of which we treat, are timely—and, if observed, would contribute largely to the instruction of the people; but must we wait until the country is aroused before anything can be done to improve our schools ? Why not say at once : Let all who feel any interest in the organization of a board of government for the schools of this Diocese, express their opinions to the Editor of The Scholastic ? Should enough favor the enterprise, let a meeting be called at a convenient place, a committee appointed to lay the case before the Bishop, and should he concur and grant the required authority and make the required appointments,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	357
the board can set to work in preparing the many preliminaries preceding active operations.
After the above was in print, we received the following from another zealous and energetic priest of the Diocese:
Editor “Notre Dajie Scholastic”:
With the greatest joy I have read your article on the Parish School question, and I sincerely hope that it may meet with the general approval which it so richly deserves from the Catholic clergy and laity. I cannot understand how this grave question can be looked upon with any other than the deepest interest. The late Bishop von Ket-teler, of Mentz, one of the greatest men of the present age, said, when offered a more important diocese than the one he held: “ My diocese is the smallest in all Germany: yet I would not exchange, because it leaves me just so much time that I can visit annually each parish, examine each school, and question every child in the Catechism.”
Now this Parochial School question should be kept continually before the eyes of the Catholic clergy and laity till the interest in it becomes so strong that it develops into action. The four propositions which you made in regard to the establishment of a Diocesan School Board are eminently practical. They point out the only way. upon which we shall find it possible to establish a truly Catholic school system. In regard to the second point, examination and visitation of schools, I would like to call attention to the plan followed in Prussia before the advenfof the so-called “ Kulturkampf,” when Church and State worked together in peace and harmony in the great cause of education. Each diocese was divided into districts, which were under the supervision of a priest chosen by the ordinariate from the pastors of the respective districts. It was his duty to visit semi-annually, or at least annually, every school in his district, examine the children in all the different branches, inquire into the method of teaching used by the teachers, etc., and to send in an explicit report of his inspection. This office was regarded as one of honor, and had no pay attached to it. Suppose our dioceses would be divided into such school-districts, not too large, say for instance of five or six schools each; and a priest who lives in the most convenient locality or who is most able and willing, be appointed inspector ? I believe the plan would work well.
In regard to the third point, uniformity of text-books (a thing devoutly to be wished for), I have noticed that in nearly all our series of readers there is too great a distance between the lower and the higher; besides, lessons on abstract themes, as, for instance, “friendship,” “hypocrisy,” etc., may do very well for college text-books, but are not suitable for those used by boys and girls of ten or eleven years of age, as we have them in our parish schools at present.
In the discussion of the school question, Normal Schools should not be forgotten. They are as essential and necessary for a sound educational system as the seminaries are for the priesthood. School Boards may govern and direct, but the Normal Schools form the teacher. They not only supply the teaching body with recruits, as it were, but they are the centres from which method, uniformity, pedigogical tact and the absolutely necessary esprit de corps are spread through the ranks of our teachers. As high schools are becoming the rage of all our cities and towns, we can find graduates enough who can teach spelling, ciphering, reading, writing, etc., but pedagogy is far more
than this; it is for the teacher what pastoral theology is for the priest.
Now this pedagogical training can be given only, and alone, in the Normal Schools, as a rule. They will give । us professional teachers, men and women who look upon {their profession as a real vocation, as a sacred work, bringing glory to God, salvation to innumerable souls, and security and happiness to the commonwealth.
Normal Schools, when conducted in a truly Catholic spirit, will create a representative body of Catholic teachers «that will be successful co-workers in the missionary labors of our priesthood. I am convinced that the importance of Catholic normal schools is not sufficiently appreciated by our clergy and laity; nor are those we have sufficiently known. Rev. Dr. Salzmann has established such a school for male teachers at St. Francis’ Station, Milwaukee Co., Wis., and it Is in a flourishing condition. Mother Angela, with her admirable foresight and energy, is the foundress of a Normal School for female teachers at Baltimore. I believe there are others which have not come to my knowledge. Our American Episcopate would add another leaf to the laurel wreath of their pious zeal if it would direct the attention of our Catholics to these institutions, which rank in importance next to our seminaries. That Wesphalia, in Germany, is to-day one of the most Catholic countries on the European continent is owing to the immortal Overberg, the friend of the famous Princess Gallitzin who was the founder and director of the two great Normal Schools of Munster.
Another most important means for the improvement of our teaching bodies are conferences of the teachers and priests of each district, to be held semi-annually or at least once a year, for the discussion of educational matters. The advantages arising therefrom are obvious: encouragement of the teachers, new ideas, reforms, in short infinite good would arise and keep us from stagnation.
Finally we ought to have a weekly or at least a monthly paper for school matters, at a low figure so that every teacher and priest could take it and make the subscription obligatory. This is done almost everywhere. The German Catholics have such a paper in Cincinnati.
I conclude my remarks by thanking the editor of The Scholastic for bringing up this great and important question for discussion, and I hope that abler pens than mine will take it up and continue till the desired end is attained. Videant consults.	L.
The two foregoing letters, from pastors of parishes who stand high in the esteem of everyone for their ability, and. devotedness to the manifold duties of their sacred office, will, we feel sure, add no little weight to the measure advocated by us in The Scholastic. Every feature indicated in them is the result of experience, from practical and energetic men, and no one can know better than the pastor of a^parish, unless it be the Chief Pastor of the Diocese, what is wanting to place our parish schools on a successful footing. We have no hesitancy in saying that their views will meet with the cordial approval of the Bishops and the clergy in general, though whether it be considered opportune to urge the measure at present is a question upon which diversity of opinions may arise. We think it is opportune, at least as far as the School Board and text-books are concerned. Those measure carried and in full operation, the Normal Schools will undoubtedly follow in due time, for the views of our last correspondent are sound and to the point.
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—M. Polyakoff has added four new species of fishes, taken in the Lakes Ala-Kul and Bdkhash, to the seven species previously known in the Central-Asian fauna. One of the fresh discoveries is a fish the flesh and caviare of which are poisonous.
—It is announced in the London Times that Col. Mason, one of the officers on the staff of Col. Gordon Pasha, Governor-General of the Khedive’s dominions in Central Africa, has circumnavigated the Albert Nyanza in a steamer, and finds it, as has been said, a landlocked lake.
—A new species of Chimasra—a genus of cartilaginous fishes—has lately been discovered in American waters. A specimen was sent to the Smithsonian Institute, which had been caught off the La Hare bank, in lat. 42 deg. 40 min. north, and at a depth of 350 fathoms. The species has been named Chimmra plumbea.
—A ripe strawberry was gathered in Cornwall, England, Dec. 29,—the thermometer indicating at the time 50 deg. in shade. Many common wild flowers were still in bloom, such as lychnis and geranium. On southern hillsides in Western New York, the dandelions in full blossom spread their golden sheen over the verdure in the same month of winter.
—The Captain of 4he Danish vessel “ Lutterfield ” publishes the statement that, on Dec. 10,1876, while on a voyage to Valparaiso, his ship encountered, about 140 miles from Magellan's Straits, an island where none was down in the charts. It was a conical rocky mass, too hot to admit of landing, and slowly sank out of sight, so that, an hour after its discovery, his vessel sailed over the spot which it had occupied.
—Prof. Edwin 11. Lewis, of the Syrian College at Beirut, made a collection of fossil fishes from strata on Mt. Lebanon, which surpasses, in the number and fine condition of the species, any ever before known. Prof. Lewis was engaged but two weeks in exhuming the fossils, yet secured in that time 5,000 slabs of stone, in some of which were hundreds of superb specimens. Many new species have been brought to light by this “ find,” as well as many perfect specimens of species hitherto known only by fragments.
—The Department of Agriculture announces that the climate and soil of Florida, Lower California, and portions of Texas are well adapted to the growth of the coffee plant. Great warmth of climate is not essential to its development. It thrives best in regions where extremes of heat and cold are not experienced. In Lower California, and Florida wild coffee, with many characteristics of the cultivated plant, is very abundant Tne importations of coffee into the United States during 1876 were nearly 340,000,000 pounds, at a cost of nearly §57,000,000.
—M. Nefedoff, who has been engaged in researches in Kasimov District, under the auspices of the Moscow Society of Friends of Natural Science, has discovered and excavated ten interesting koorganes (mounds). The objects which were brought to light comprise eleven human skeletons, and a quantity of ornaments, some of which are in bronze, and represent snakes, herds of animals, etc. A comparison of the shells and ornaments thus recovered with those found in the Moscow and Merich mounds, proves that these belong to a quite different people.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The “ Order of the Holy Grail,” a Wagnerian society at Munich, is about to give a concert of the meister's works.
—Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly, the accomplished poet, has become the literary editor of the Philadelphia Catholic Standard.
—Wagner’s new poem, “ Parsifal,” has been published by Schott & Sons, in Mayence, as well as the sketch for a sonata by the same master.
—The Royal Library at Berlin, the largest in Germany, contains over 700,000 volumes. An effort is being made,
headed by Profs. Mommsen and Virchow, to secure the erection of a new building to accommodate it.
—The demand made upon the French Government for the support of the Fine Arts during the coming year amounts to 7,516,190 francs. An application for 7,426,530 francs, or nearly the whole amount, will be made to the Chamber.
—The French balloonist, Gaston Tissandier, has printed a book entitled “ History of My Ascensions; the Story of Twenty-four Aerial Voyages.” The author’s personal experiences in military ballooning in the Franco-Prussian war are extremely interesting.
—Sarah Bernhardt, in spite of her arduous engagements as an actress, does -not neglect her chisel. Besides her bust of Felician David, which is to go to Versailles, she is at present occupied in modelling a pretty piece of statuary, representing a child playing on a flute, which will probably be exhibited at the Salon next year.
—The Revue et Gazette Hfusicale states that at the grand international concerts to be given during the Exhibition in the Palais du Trocadero, M. Colonne will perform Berlioz’s “Messe des Morts,” a work which, owing to the exceptionally large orchestra it requires, to say nothing of the difficulty of the music, is but seldom to be heard.
—The first number of the London Athenceum was issued the 2d of January, fifty years ago. Mr. Silk Buckingham was editor of the new sheet, and with Mr. Colburn, a joint proprietor. At the end of the first year, it was claimed by him that the Athenceum was “ the largest weekly literary jour-nnl ever issued from the English press.” In 1830, Mr. Dilke became the editor and chief proprietor of the paper, maintaining the position until 1846.
—A folk-lore society has just been formed in England for the purpose of preserving the fast-fading relics of popular fictions and traditions, legendary ballads, local proverbial sayings, superstitions, and old customs. The new society will gather together the folk-lore articles scattered through English literature, and such communications on the same subject as may be forwarded direct to the society, and it will print such accounts of the folk-lore of the colonies and also of other countries as may serve to illustrate and explain that of England.
—It has been decided, by appeal to the Civil Tribunal in France, that sketches, drawings, and studies made by an artist preliminary to his production of a portrait, cannot be exhibited or sold without the permission of the sitter, or of friends acting for the sitter. The case in which this verdict was lately rendered was one in which the heirs of Ingres were sued for offering at a public sale a portraitsketch of the beautiful wife of M. Moitessier, whose portrait was painted by Ingres twenty-five years ago, and was considered one of his best works.
—Mr. T. Alfred Spalding, a member of the New Shak-speare Society at London, divides the first group of Shak-speare’s Sonnets into three parts: I, from Familiarity to Friendship, 1-25; II, Clouds (the friendship being gradually obscured and the friends separated), 26-96; HI, Reconciliation, 97-126. Mr. Spalding believes the first group of Sonnets were all addressed to one friend, but rejects the idea that either Lord Southampton or Tembroke was this friend. In his opinion, study should be devoted to the Sonnets themselves, rather than to this insolvable question.

—The Georgetown (Col.) Miner says: “At the Catholic Church, on Sunday morning, before the service, an unassuming little spider can be seem curled up in his gauzy bower—probably -wrapped up in his morning prayer. Let the lady organist but touch the keys, and with eager feet he will creep a couple of feet down the wall; and there his artistic soul will revel in the musical sounds produced by choir and instruments. When the service is over the dying echoes lingering in his predatory soul, he retires, it is hoped, with regenerate heart. The fact that the lady organist had a faithful and cherished auditor of this kind three consecutive years, who would crawl ou to the piano, shows that this is no isolated case. And whatever may be the opinion of the unfeeling world, to the choir of the church he is endeared by months of association and musical appreciation.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
359
Books and Periodicals.
—The contents of the January number of The Catholic ' Record are: I, Will Mohammedanism Outlive the Turkish Empire ? II, Two Vocations; III, To-Day; IV, A Plea for Plain History; V, Dishonored; VI, Literature and the Arts and Sciences in the Dark Ages; VII, Poetry and Philosophy; VIII, How Professor Gaster Lectured a ,	Ghost; IX, Natural Science in its Highest Aspects; X,
Bury the Dead; XI, Powers of Calculation; XII, Editorial Notes; XIII, New Publications.
—The following are the contents of the February num-pf	her of the Popular Science Monthly, published by D. Ap-
1	pieton & Co., 549 and 551 Broadway, New York: I, Evolu-
tion of Ceremonial Government; II, Geysers and how they are explained; III, The Hygienic Influence of Plants; IV, Counting by the Aid of the Fingers; V, Modern Life and Insanity; Vl, The Growth of the Steam-Engine; VII, The Magnetic Observatory at Madison, Wisconsin; VIII, The Chemistry of Fruit-Ripening; IX, Addresses of President Eliot and Professor Marsh; X, Spontaneous Generation; XI, Sketch of Walter Bagehot; XII, Correspondence; XIII, Editor’s Table: Literary Notices; Popular
,,	Miscellany; Notes.
i	—The Catholic World for February is exceptionally rich
I	in the interest and value of its articles. It opens with a
I	long and very beautiful poem by that sweet and pure
singer, Aubrey de Vere. The poem is based on the simple old legend of Ceadmon the Cowherd, England’s first poem It is full of quaint beauty and delightful pictures of Old-World life, scenery, and character. The number contains other minor poems, some of which possess quite exceptional merit. The article that will probably attract most attention is that by Monsignor Capel. Mgr. Capel discusses, with singular calmness, candor, and good sense, a - question of great present interest in England—“ Confession in the Church of England.” “A Final Philosophy ” is a Z very keen yet just review of Dr. Shields’ recent book, which has attracted so much attention and excited no little ,	controversy. “Christianity as an Historical Religion”
i	brings to a worthy close a noble subject taken up in the
I	preceding number of The World. “ Preachers on the Ram-
|	page ” is bright and timely, bearing on certain side-issues
of the Chinese question now agitating the country. These constitute the strong articles. Of the lighter sort, “The Isle of Lerins ” is a sunny sketch of a sunny, quaint old spot, half forgotten in our busy modern world, yet full of history and fame. “Michael the Sombre,” by Lady Herbert of Lea, is startling enough for fiction, though it happens to be true. “ The Old Stone Jug ” is a capital short story. We had almost missed mention of one of the best articles in the number—“A Great Bishop” which gives a strong and appreciative review of the life and works of the noble and chivalrous Mgr. Ketteler, Bishop of Mayence, who died only last summer.
—The celebrated poet Racine^ having one day just returned from Versailles, where he had been on a visit, was waited upon by a gentleman with an invitation to dine at the Hotel de CondG. “ I cannot possibly have the honor to go there,” said the poet. “ It is a month since I have been with my wife and children; they are delighted to have me home again, and have provided a fine carp, so that I must dine with them.” “But, my good sir,’’•replied the gentleman, “several of the most distinguished characters in the kingdom expect yqur company and will be very glad to see you.” On this Racine brought out the carp and showedit to his visitor, saying: “Here, sir, isour little meal; then say, having provided such a treat for me, what apology could I make for not dining with my poor children ? Neither they nor my wife could have any pleasure in eating a bit of it without me; then pray be so obliging as to mention my excuse to the Prince of Conde and my other illustrious friends.” The gentleman did so, and not only the prince but all the company present professed themselves infinitely more charmed with this proof of the poet’s faithful tenderness as a husband and a father than they possibly could have been with his delightful conversation.
—Herodotus relates that a certain king of Egypt, anxious to know which was the most natural and consequently the most ancient of human languages, caused several infants to be raised by nurses who had previously been deprived of their tongue. When these children came to the age of speaking, their first words were carefully looked for; and on a certain day, after the poor little ones had been subjected to an extraordinary fast, they cried out, “Bekos! Bekos!" It was then discovered that Bekos meant in the Phrygian language, bread, and hence it was concluded by them that this language was the most ancient in the world.
—A statistical abstract relating to British India, just issued by order of Parliament, shows that the area under British administration is 909,834 miles, with a population of 191,065,445. The native States comprise 573,052 miles and a population of 48,233,978. Including the French and Portuguese possessions, the total area of all India is, 1.484,-150 square miles, with a population of 239,978,595. Of the 191,000,000 inhabitants of British India the religious denominations are given as follows: Hindoos, 139,343,820; Sikhs, 1,174,436; Mohammedans, 40,867,125; Buddhists and Jains-2,832,851; Christians, 897,682; others, 5,417,304, and “ religion not known,” 532,227.
—Wells, Fargo & Go’s, statement of the production of precious metals in the states and territories west of the Missouri river, including British Columbia and the west coast of Mexico, during 1877, shows an aggregate yield of §98,500,000 dollars, being an excess of §7,500,000 over 1876 the greatest previous annual yield. California gives §15,-250,000 gold and §1,250,000 silver, Nevada §460,000 gold and §44,320,000 silver bullion. This so-called silver bullion, however, is about 45 per cent. gold. California also gives §1,750,000 base bullion, and Nevada §6,750,000 of the same, which contains about 28 per cent, of gold. Arizona gives for the year §2,390,000, of which §123,000 is gold, §500,000 silver bullion, and the remainder ores and base bullion. The exports of silver from San Francisco to India, China, and the Straits, are given approximately at §19,000,000.
—In the little work Why J. Catholic in the Nineteenth Century? by William Giles Dix, we find the following eloquent appeal to all believers in Christ: “In the Catholic Church you will be working in harmony with the plans of God from all eternity. You will there find, an ample field for all the various powers with which God has endowed you. Are you orators ? Where are more sublime themes for your eloquence than the glories of the Christian Church, the glories of the Gospel of grace and salvation adapted by her ministrations to every want of the souls of men? Are you philosophers? The noblest system of philosophy which the world has ever known is the plan of redemption and its attendant truths that cluster around it like stars around a central sun. The. deepest thinkers have not sounded the depth of that divine philosophy. The loftiest thoughts have not soared to its highest height. Are you poets? Christianity can entrance yout souls with holier visions, with more impressive mysteries, than seer or sibyl ever sang. In power to move the heart and refine and exalt the imagination, to set forth figures of divine beauty and grandeur before the minds of men, Parnassus yields to Calvary, and the nine muses to the innumerable choirs of saints and angels around the eternal throne. Are you painters or sculptors or architects ? Catholic art. and Catholic art only, has built upon earth structures as firm as the rocks on which they stand, yet as aerial in beauty as if they were about to soar into the air; in which “thoughts that wander through eternity” seem at home, where worship seems spontaneous and intuitive, and religion an instinct of the soul. Where, except in Catholic art, will you see portrayed the sorrows and the triumphs of the Christian Faith—the martyr looking, like Stephen, into heaven with his dying eyes; the agonies of Him who lived on earth in conflict that men might die in peace, and died in ignominy that men might live forever in honor and joy; the sinless Mother looking with unutterable tenderness upon her infant God, her Saviour-Son, reposing in her arms, or looking with unutterable sorrow upon that Saviour-Son extended on the Cross ? ” Why a Catholic in the Nineteenth Century is a book which deserves a large circulation because of the beauty of its style and the cogency of its reasoning.
360
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, February 3, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the.University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
• Feast of St. Francis de Sales at Notre Dame.
The Feast of St. Francis de Sales, the patron saint of Catholic journalism, was celebrated by the writers for The Scholastic by an agreeable reunion and banquet in the college. It is to be hoped that in future years the contributors to this paper will follow in the footsteps of those of the present year, and honor the patron of journalism in a similar manner.
The banquet was spread in the Senior refectory, and was one worthy the occasion. When the dishes were uncovered, at 7.30 p. m., there were to be seen turkeys, oysters in various forms, and side-dishes, desserts, etc., in abundance. As most of our contributors are blessed with excellent health, the good things set before them were done full justice to. About an hour and a half afterwards the toast-master, Mr. P. J. Cooney, arose, and the sentiments so beautifully expressed in the toasts were drunk to in cider, for which excellent beverage thanks are due to our friend, Mr. Chirhart. The first toast was:
Popb Pius IX—the great, the good, the glorious, yet humble servant of Christ. May he long continue to rule the One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church of God upon earth, and be the living exemplar of all virtues to all the nations of the earth.
Very Rev President Corby, in responding to the sentiment, first alluded to the many trials and difficulties encountered by the Holy Father from the time of his election up to the present day, and how the story of his life in itself showed plainly that God was with him, sustaining and Upholding him. He then dwelt at some length on the great interest displayed by the Pope in journalism, and his blessing the work of all those who by their writings en-' deavor to advance the cause of religion and morality. Father Corby’s remarks were received with great applause.
The next toast was:
The University of Notbe Dame. Days spent under her care form the brightest pages in the history of our lives
and their recollection will always find a sympathetic echo in the hearts of her children. May her life be long, to lead the youth of this country through the paths of virtue, scattering her blessings broadcast over the land: and when time ends, may the seeds she has sown blossom in a happy Eternity.
This was responded by Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, who proceeded for some time in a humorous vein, causing many outbursts of laughter; then, becoming serious, he told how in all truth and reality the time spent at college was the happiest and merriest of our lives, and that in future years all the young gentlemen now gathered around the board would turn with pleasure to the thoughts of college days.
The third toast was:
The Day we Celebrate—the Feast of the learned and amiable St. Francis de Sales, the latest Doctor of the Church and Patron of Catholic Journalism. May his Christ-like virtues be emulated wherever the music of his name is heard, and may his sublime example be a guiding star to Catholic Journalists for all time.
In the absence of the Rev. Editor of the Ave Maria, Mr. John Rogers, C. S. C., responded to the sentiment. He said that in St. Francis de Sales, whose feast we to-day celebrate, we find all the qualities that go to make a meek, generous, amiable, and noble soul—a man of eminent sanctity, fidelity, and charity, whose whole life was nothing else than one heroic act of virtue, ever laboring for the spiritual and temporal welfare of those over .whom Providence had placed him, edifying them by his example, and teaching them lessons of morality and virtue by his zeal for the promotion of religion both by deed and word. Of the many saints that Holy Church sets before us for our edification and emulation, there are few whose virtues are so pre-eminently ennobling, and whose characters are so harmonious and so generally attractive as that of this sainted Doctor of the universal Church. St. Francis de Sales has beep recently appointed Patron of Catholic Journalists by the Sovereign Pontiff, Pius IX; so that in him those who devote their pens to the cause of religion and truth,—who as members of the press render invaluable services to the universal Church by the dissemination of good and pious, solid and instructive literature,—literature properly so-called,—may look up to him as their guide and protector in the meritorious work in which they are engaged. The family from which Saint Francis de Sales sprung was an ancient and noble one, and he inherited all those sublime features that rendered his predecessors for years so much respected and esteemed both at home and abroad. In early life he showed signs of a brilliant future, and under the careful training of his pious mother he laid the foundation of a virtuous life—a foundation that was never to be undermined by the false principles and notions of the world. Notwithstanding the brightest worldly prospects, which his position and talents would undoubtedly have turned to the greatest advantage, he resolved, on reaching maturity, to embrace the ecclesiastical state, for which from his earliest years he had a strong inclination; and after completing that thorough course of studies which afterwards so distinguished him as a scholar, he received ordination. Of his career as Bishoprof Geneva I need say nothing, as it is well known to all of us; and of the virtues which gave him such prominence even among other holy ministers of God, language fails to give even an idea. He was meek, amiable, unassuming,—a profound scholar, thoroughly conversant with many languages, and a champion of the cause of truth. His mind was endowed with everything that goes to make the man; and, in the language of song,
His thoughts were as a pyramid up-piled, •

361
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4,
On whose fai top an angel stood and smiled, Yet in his heart he was a little child.
His name is great on earth, but it is far greater in heaven. On earth, “ many will praise his wisdom; bis memory shall not depart, and his name shall be in request from generation unto generation; the nations narrate his wisdom, and the Church declare his praise.”
When Mr. Rogers had finished, Prof. T. E. Howard was called for, and, rising, he read the following poem, founded on an incident in the life of St. Francis de Sales:.
f'	OUR PATRON.
I	St. Francis of Sales, with a priest by his side,
Through the streets of the city once taking his way— Now winning with meekness some creature of pride,
Now lighting with truth some child gone astray—
By a lawyer was met, as the Christ was of old,—
Cunning, malicious, and venomed with lies:
Full oft was their combat, the meek with the bold, Love pleading with hate, for a soul was the prize ;
But the lawyer long worsted, and now raging with shame,
1	' Lifts the hand of the assassin to cover defeat:—
St. Francis is spared, but the priest without blame,
A martyr of charity, dies in the street.
Next the culprit in chains, and waiting to die,
Lo the Saint seeking respite and life for his foe !
From palace to prison 0 now see him fly,—
The murderer is pardoned, the prisoner may go !
Did love win the soul, then, for which love had so yearned ?
R ,	Not so: the man spat in the face of the Saint !—
f \	“God judge thee, my friend,” said Francis, and turned
And sought new work, nor made complaint.
0 Catholic Press, with the Priest by your side,
Ready to bless you, or ready to die,
Behold yonr exemplar, and learn from your guide
Gently to conquer and never to fly !
Not passion can triumph, nor force, nor deceit;
But let intellect intellect meet, and the heart
Gain over the heart: ’twere but wretched defeat
To win by a brutish or demon-like art.
And should reason not reach some case-hardened mind,
Nor charity melt some heart iced with cold,
Unruffled continue; new work you will find,
Your reward, like St. Francis’, more precious than gold.
Ye knights of the press, ’tis an age that should cheer us: Forces titanic are out for the battle,
Men, angels, and demons led on by their heroes;
And the challenge of arms sounds a glorious rattle.
Not Saladin wielded a keener blade,
Not Saladin came with a prouder boast,—
Not the Heart of the Lion more boldly stayed
The infidel onset and shattered his host.
On, courteous knights, without fear or reproach !
Sir Calidore leads, and the Red Cross is there;
No right will they yield, and on none will encroach, And every true knight in their glory will share.
When the applause had died away, the toast-master read the fourth toast, which is as follows:
Our Country. May she ever survive, proud and unrivalled. She has followed the safe and middle way between the despotism of the one and the despotism of the many. She has opened a harbor for the poor and persecuted of all nations, whither they may fly for refuge, and where an equal justice is meted out to all. May she, the home of the free, always stand firm in the love and obedience of her many children.
Mr. N. V. Brower, of the South Bend Register, in response to the toast, began by tracing the history of our country from the beginning of its existence, and then after portraying her power, said‘that the only way in which she could remain firm in the love and obedience of her many children was to have them truly educated. This education was given by institutions like Notre Dame, and was kept up afterwards by a press truly moral and patriotic. Mr. Brower expressed his pleasure at meeting so many young gentlemen now at work in a school of journalism, and he trusted they would profit by the lessons they had received. Mr. Brower’s remarks were highly appreciated, and .were received with applause.
The next toast was:
The Press: The lever by which the world is moved. May it crush out evil, establish the right, always do justice, cultivate the beautiful, advocate the good, and uphold the true.
To this toast, Mr. John G. Ewing responded. He said that some are born to be leaders, and others to be led. The vast majority of mankind but follow as others lead. So have we been created with unequal gifts of mind and mind culture. Civilized man always seeks the guide of reason. Even when in error does he appeal to reason to aid him in the step he may have taken. Right and wrong, justice and injustice, all urge reason as an aid and an advocate for their cause. Men persuaded will follow guidance, and they will not follow with their whole mind and heart unless their whole mind and heart are in the work. If they are not, they will kick against ’the goad which drives them, and, if a chance may come, gladly do they rid themselves of the tyranny, and plunge to the opposite extreme. One excess always engenders another. Tyranny receives its meed in uncontrolled license and anarchy. Men can be led willingly only when they are persuaded, and this truth in our day has received its due consideration. We argue, and do not force. Better to have an open enemy than a lukewarm adherent. In this endeavor to .lead men by their reason does the Press find its work, and here does it show its power and its force. Truly can it be called the lever which moves the world, since it governs and controls the minds of men. For good or evil, for right or wrong, for honesty or fraud does it plead and does it labor. All now read, and by their reading are their opinions moulded, and their ideas formed. In days gone by the newspaper was, as its name purports, but a chronicle of daily occurrences; now it is a commentator thereon as well. In this day of the steam-engine and the telegraph, of almost marvellous progress and improvement in science and art, men must have a guide to their judgments which shall be equal to their.daily needs. This guide is found in the Press, which, in our land at least, controls the people and leads their judgments. Men may talk and men may think, but the Press sits as censor on their words and thoughts, and renders judgment on them. Over 6,000 papers scattered over our land control the mind of our people, for they express the opinion and judgment of the master-minds of our day. The merchant in his store, the mechanic at his .bench, the banker at his counter, the farmer at his fireside, the man of letters at his studies, all turn to it for mental food and nourishment. Passed by by one, another reads, and leaves it to a third to go on in its ceaseless round of good or evil. A drop of carmine in a gallon of water will infuse its color through the liquid mass. A drop of poison in a spring of purest crystal may bring death to many. A glance at the.thoughts expressed in a newspaper item shall influence a mind to good or evil. Reading in our day is a mania, and of it man
362
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
never tires. Our mental as our bodily frame is built of little things. A word here and a word there, a chance thought, a chance expression, all go to build up our mental life. In • this work of mind building nothing is more potent than the Press, always present and unceasingly working. Every glance imprints a new impression on the mind. It may take years to show itself and develop, but the thought remains and affects for life. Where may the thought thus expressed in words lodge, no man can tell. Will it bring forth weeds or whole grain? Good or bad harvest? See that it expose not the innocent to ruin, the’ trusting to falsehood. Let the work be pure, true, good and wholesome. Let it lead to reason’s true end. As the Press is the lever moving the world, it may sink the nation in falsehood and shame, or raise it in truth and honor. If it acts the latter part, it will be the lever moving the world to good. It will then fulfil its true and God-sent mission to crush out evil, establish the right, cultivate the beautiful, advocate the good, and uphold the true.
The last toast was:
Oub Club,—Composed of the contributors to the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is bur three years ol'd, yet during its existence it has numbered among its members the elite of the College. May those who have entered upon the great world outside the college walls attain the object of their noble ambition, and may their pens, in the future as in the past, be ever devoted to the cause of Justice, of Truth and of Patriotism.
Mr. Joseph P. McHugh, in response to the sentiment said that three years ago the zealous editor-in-chief of The Scholastic organized the Academia, the object of which is to cultivate a journalistic taste and love for truth, virtue, and freedom. Since its organization the Academia has been composed of the young men of our great University, and has always been an honor to it. Our old contributors are scattered far and wide, yet when we think of them what a gush of gentle fiiemories steals over us! We long once more for the happy days we spent together to our mutual advantage, and drop a silent prayer for their success. This is not school-boy nature, but human nature in its truest type. Of our members, some have entered all the different professions. Some have chosen the priest hood, and are most fortunate in their holy work; others still, equally as useful, now with great success “ teach the young idea how to shoot.” Many have, with busy spirit, entered upon a mercantile life, and enjoy well-deserved prosperity. More have chosen the profession of the law, and no doubt we will in the not distant future see them shine brightly in the profession of their choice; while some others, with a taste the germs of which were developed in the Academia, have entered the field of journalism. Gladly, however, on all sides, do we hear the most gratifying reports of their success and enterprise, equal to that which they achieved and displayed in our own little world. May it ever be thus, and may they always in the future give forth the same sentiments of love for justice and right which are so deeply imprinted in their hearts, and which they displayed in all the effusions from their pens. May the future of the Club be what it has been, an honor to its founder and to the noble University to which it belongs, and may its future members at such gatherings as this have a thought and a prayer for the success of the members of our Club, old and new, as well as for the increased prosperity of the Notre Dame Scholastic, in which we take so much pride.
Letters of regret were read from Mr. Harold V- Hayes, of ’74, of Chicago; Mr. William Hoy nes, of ’69, of Pomeroy's Democrat, Chicago; C. N. Fassett, of the South Bend Tribune; Chas. T. Murray, of the South Bend Herald; the editors of the Salesianum, the College Message, the Luxemburger Gazette, and other journals. Mr. James A. McMaster, editor of the New York Freeman's Journal, sent the following telegraphic dispatch:
“Fraternal greeting. Thanks, and regrets at necessary absence from the beautiful and touching celebration of the Feast of our editorial patron saint by the young gentlemen editors of Notre Dame.
*“ James A. McMaster.”
Mr. John O’Kane Murray, the talented author of “A Popular History of the United States,” “Poetry and Prose of Ireland ” etc., wrote as follows:
’ “ Gentlemen:—Your most friendly invitation to mingle
with the writers of The Notre Dame Scholastic at the carving of a turkey, on the Festival of St. Francis de Sales, is received. I thank you very warmly for this kind remembrance of one so far away; and I only regret that as hitherto the scientists have failed to furnish a means of travelling by telegraph, I am obliged to s’ay at home in the ‘ City of the Sainis.’ To the bright minds that reflect their light on the pages of the excellent Scholastic I am indebted for many a hearty laugh and much sound instruction. If thanks and good wishes are to any purpose, I send you my whole stock; and I hope that the grand and kindly St. Francis himself—the Doctor without fear and without reproach—will not fail to look down on your beautiful labors, and obtain a blessing for the Editor and writers of The Notre Dame Scholastic.
“ Believe me, gentlemen,
“Yours very truly and gratefully,
“John O’Kane Murray.’’
The music, really excellent, was furnished by the Senior Orchestra, which more than surpassed itself in the selections furnished. A beautiful guitar solo, given by Mr. Claggett, gave diversity to the gathering. When the banquet was over the young gentlemen of the Club repaired to Washington Hall, where with music and conversation an hour was pleasantly passed. Taken altogether, the contributors to The Scholastic may feel proud of their reunion and banquet, and we hope that all future celebrations of the Feast of St. Francis de Sties may be as happy and pleasantly successful as that of 1878.
Personal.
—Prof. Lyons was called to Cleveland, 0., on business on Tuesday last.	|
—Rev. Fathers Noll, of Elkhart, and Maujay, of Besan-9011, visited us on Wednesday.
—We were pleased to se-i Mr. N. V. Brower, of theRcy-ister, South Bend, on the 29th. Mr. Brower is one of the readiest and racyist editors in Northern Indiana.
—James Browne, of ’76, is still on his father’s ranche near Brownsville, Texas. Our informant was mistaken in our last issue when he said that Mr. Browne was studying medicine.
—James H. Ward, of ’74. and his wife, vi-ited Notre Dame on the 25ih. Mrs. Ward is a graduate of St. Mary’s Academy. We are pleased to know that Mr. Ward is succeeding well in his profession.- His law office is Room No. 40, Metropolitan Block, 163 Randolph Street, Chicago.
—We learn from the Ohio State Journal that Joseph A. Roberts, who served his apprenticeship to the printing business in the office of the Nctre Dame Scholastic, died at St. Francis’s Hospital in Columbus on the 25th of January. While at Notre Dame, Joe took an active part in field-sports, and he will be remembered with a kindly feeling bjr the members of our baseball clubs of former years. The funeral took place from the residence of his uncle, Mr. John Carens, on the afternoon of the 26th. May he rest in peace.
.	Local Items.
—The Examinations occupied the whole of the past week.
—On the 27th Prof. Howard celebrated his birthday, and on the 28th Prof. Stace his.
—The second session has now begun, and we trust that everyone will do his level best during the coming five months.
—We notice some students go to church without any books. Everyone ought to take a prayer or hymn-book with him.
—We are in receipt of numerous letters from editors of papers regretting their inability to be present at the banquet on the 29th.
—The banquet of the members of the Academia last Tuesday, the Feast of St Francis de Sales, was a most enjoyable affair.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
363
. —The Minims very frequently have singing in the evenings after supper. There are a great number of good voices in that department.
—The display made by the members of the Elocution Class on Monday eyeing will without doubt add a number to the Class during the present session.
—The psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are Dixit Do-minus, Confitebor, Beatus vir, Laudato pueri, and,Memento Domine David. The Mass is Missa Parmilorum.
—It has been proposed that the Cannon be brought out to shoot the Rabbit.—Last week’s Scholastic. One of the Cannons “ went off” last week, but did not hit the Rabbit.
—On account of the space given to the report ot the banquet of the contributors to the Scholastic on the 29th we are unable to give a great deal of local and personal gossip this week.
—As the ice was found some three or four inches thick on Wednesday, the cutters immediately set to work cutting ice for summer use. After all, we will not have an icefamine in July.
—The teacher of Fourth Grammar offered a prize to the one in his class that would receive the highest percentage at the Examination. It was won by Walter Cannon, tightly contested by John Guthrie.
—The weather became cold on the 29th, and on the day following, Wednesday, the ice was found in good condition. Of course the boys took advantage of this fact and spent most of the day skating.	.
—We think if the editors of some Catholic papers would look over some of the anti-Catholic stories in the New York Weekly World, they would not recommend that political journal so highly as they do.
—The music, speeches, etc., at the banquet on Tuesday evening were first class. We hope that our contributors will do good work between this and June when the Scholastic fete champetre will take place. ■
—The 18th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held January 28th. Declamations were delivered by K. L. Scanlan and A. J. Burger. A.debate was announced for the next meeting.
—,l Into and over” do not mean multipliedby and divided by; and yet we heard the words so used several times during the Examination. Mathematics is called an exactscience. Use correct English then, 0 ye mathematicians!
—We have received the Scholastic Almanac for 1878, published at the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and edited by Prof. J. A. Lyons. It is neatly printed and contains a vast amount of useful information for Catholic readers.—St. John, N. B., Herald.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1878, compiled by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame College, Indiana, has 102 pages of as interesting reading as one could desire, and much more valuable than one anticipates finding in an “ Almanac.”—I. G.B. U. Journal.
—The Saint Cecilia Philomathean Association held its 20th regular meeting Sunday evening, January 27th. At this meeting declamations were delivered by C. Hagan, T. Nelson and George Cochrane. Essays wete read by G. Sugg, J. Healey and C. J. Clarke.
—It is a fact that in every place one goes he finds some people who are regular born asses. Such are those people v.ho in the Infirmary building throw their slop out of the windows without looking to see whether anyone is passing beneath or not. Whoever does a thing of this kind shows his bad breeding, no matter what excuses are made.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Compiled by Professor J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Indiana. Price 25 cents. This is one ot the many excellent annuals issued by Catholic publishers, and we commend it for its literary merit and the fund of information it contains. Its articles are compiled from the Notre Dame Scholastic, one of our best exchanges.—The Weekly Visitor.
—A. very neat little volume comes to us from the Notre Dame Scholastic, being a compilation of their interesting “ Almanac” for the years ’76, ’77 and ’78 by Prof. J. A. Lyons. It abounds with instructive and amusing matter,
and is marked with the same scholarly finish which characterizes the weekly issues of the able College journal of Notre Dame.—Catholic Standard.	.
—The result of the Examinations the past week proves this, that there are many competitors in the Junior department for the highest per cent., and that there will have to be good and earnest work during the coming session if any one wishes to stand at the head of the list. Let those who came out first best endeavor to keep what they have won at the examination, and those who have failed work the harder.
—On the 25th the Columbians held a sociable in Washington Hall. Oysters, etc., were served, after which the members and invited guests enjoyed themselves in dancing and conversation. Mr. P. Hagan recited “ Shamus O’Brien,” and Mr. Cougar, “The Ride of Collins Graves.” Mr. Spalding made a neat little speach. The music was furnished by the Senior Orchestra, which, by the way, gives first-class music.
—The habit of cigarette-smoking appears to be rapidly increasing in this country, to the general alarm of physicians, who are convinced that it is much more injurious thau the use of the cigar or the pipe. The reason is that the smoke is generally inhaled, producing bronchial and throat diseases, as well as vertigo and dyspepsia. Some claim that the chief mischief is m the paper wrapping, whose imperfect combustion produces dangerous acids.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1878, from the office of the Notre Dame Scholastic, partakes so much of the excellent character of that publication that it cannot fail to be good. We will stake our reputation that the astrologer this year will not receive a leather medal—unless he deserves it. We congratulate all concerned in this upon the neatness of their work—and the astrologer in particular upon the care with which his predictions are framed.—Northwestern Chronicle.
—A meeting of the Philodemics was held Jan. 30th, and the tollowing officers were elected for the ensuing session: Director, Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C.; President, Rev. T. E, Walsh, 6. 8. C.; Vice President, J. J. Coleman; Rec. Secretary, J. J. McEniry; Cor. Secretary, J. G. Ewing; Treasurer, P. F. McCullough; 1st Censor, A. J. Hertzog; 2d Censor, H. Maguire. Messrs. Ewing and Quinn were appointed to wait on the Director and President, and intorm them of their election.
—The members of the Calisthenic Club closed its first term by a social in Washington Hall on last Wednesday evening. The Senior Orchestra furnished the music, and Prof. W. Ivers had the general management in his hands, which fact is a guarantee that a pleasant evening was the result. Atjhe close a vote of thanks was returned the Professor for his zeal in the interest of the Club, and to the Orchestra for their kindness in furnishing the excellent music of the evening. Prof. Ivers speaks in the highest terms of the gentlemanly deportment of all concerned.
—Examination of the Elocution Class took place last Monday evening in the presence of Very Rev. President Corby, the faculty, and a large number of students. Selections were given by Messrs. P. J. Dougherty, T. F. McGrath, E. F. Arnold, F. W. Berteling, J. Perea, P. J. Cooney, K. Scanlan, C- Hagan, A. Widdicombe, A. Con-gar, F. Carrol), T. Nelson, R. Keenan, G. Donnelly, and J. P. Hogan. All the pieces were given in a pleasing manner. Selections were rendered on the piano by Mr. G. Cochrane, and some excellent music was given by the Senior Orchestra. We hope to see a large increase in the number of those attending the class the coming session.
—The Scholastic Almanac for the current year, compiled by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University ot Notre Dame, Ind., has been received, and we have uo hesitation in pronouncing it the best that we have thus far seen. In addition to giving all the information that a first-class almanac is expected to afford, about eclipses, mutationsof the seasons, movable festivals and days of fast and abstinence, together . with a full and accurate calendar, etc., it contains a great variety of interesting, instructive and entertaining original articles from the pens of professors and students at Notre Dime. The almanac is quite large, containing not less than 102 pages of valuable information and choice miscellany
364
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Printed upon the University press, under the eyes of Prof. Lyons himself, the typography is as neat as it well could be, while the paper is of the best quality, making this the most beautiful almanac that has thus far come to our table. Price, 25 cents. Copies can be had at leading bookstores, or upon .application to Prof. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.— Pomeroy's Democrat.
From the South Bend Daily Register.
Press Banquet.
HOW SOME LITERARY GENTLEMEN ENJOYED A SOCIAL HOUR.
Yesterday was the anniversary of St. Francis de Sales, patron saint of Catholic journalism. It was duly celebrated by the gifted editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic, the contributors to that model of college papers, the faculty of the college, and a member of the South Bend press gang, a Register' representative—other members of the South Bend press sending their regrets. The number was about thirty. The occasion was one of unalloyed enjoyment, as occasions of a similar character always are at Notre Dame, hospitable and genial old Notre Dame. At half-past 7 o’clock, after a short season of very pleasant social intercourse in the spacious parlors, the party were invited down to the banquet hall, where was spread as fine a feast as we have looked upon in a long time. Grace was said by the Very Rev. Father Corby, President of the college, and then commenced the rattle of knives and forks. After the good things had been disposed of and the cloth had been removed, letters of regret were read from those who had received invitatious but could not be present, among them letters from Mr. Hoynes, of Pomeroy's Democrat, Chau. N. Fasset and others. P. J. Cooney, toastmaster, then announced the first toast of the evening.—
“Pope Pius,” responded to in an earnest and able manner, by the Very Rev. Father Corby, President of the college.
Then came toasts in the following order:
“The University of Notre Dame,” by Rev. T. E. Walsh, who was very happy in'his remarks.
“The day we celebrate,” being the anniversary of St. Francis de Sales, patron saint of Catholic journalism, by J. Rogers, C. S. C. Mr. R. acquitted himself well.
Poem, by Professor T. E. Howard, which, like most of this learned gentleman’s productions,, was a gem, appropriate to the occasion, in that it treated of the patron saint, whose memory was being honored, and of journalism.
Then came a guitar solo, a very fine selection, given with much skill, by Mr. Claggett.
“ Our Country,” etc., responded to by N. V. Brower, of The Register.
“The Press,” ably responded co by John G. Ewing, who did himself much credit. His production evinced thought and care.
The exercises closed with the toast: “ Our Club,” by J. P. McHugh, who spoke in a feeling and earnest manner of the pleasant relations of the past, and of hope for the future. He may be congratulated on his effort. The “ Club,” meant the association formed by the editor of the Scholastic and his contributors, comprising members of the faculty and students of the senior classes of the different courses.
A,“string” band, composed of the students, furnished very acceptable music for the evening.
The Scholastic, it is not flattery to say, ranks among the best college papers of the United States. Many of its editorials and communications are of rare merit from a literary point of view, and others are of much worth for their gleanings and light upon different historical subjects. Take it all in all, it was an evening of rare social enjoyment to all present. Long live The Scholastic, its accomplished editor and talented corps of correspondents.
—When we know how to appreciate a merit, we have the germ of it within ourselves.—Goeth.
■	Semi-Annual Examinations.
General Averages.
seniors.
[In this list are not included the names of those who were sick during the Examinations or who received an average less than 65-]
E. F. Arnold, 94; W. Arnold, 95; J. Boehm, 84; T. F. Barry, 76; T. Barrett, 70; M. Bannon, 92; I. Chatterton, 90; B. J. Claggett, 81; J. J. Coleman, 99; J. E. Cooney, 82; W. L. Decbant, 98; P. Dougherty, 89; E. Dempsey, 77; L. Eisenman, 86; L. J.Evers, 97; J. English, 73; F. C.Ewing, 89; J. G. Ewing, 99; W. C. Farrar, 79; J. Feuerstein, 89; T. Fischel, 77; K. Francis, 69; J. J. Fitzgerald, 89; A. Ginz, 83; G. Goble, 69; E. Gramling, 83; F. Hoffman, 85; J. Hoffman, 74; A. J. Hettinger, 95; A. J. Hertzog, 96; F. Hellman, 90; J. Houck, 92; T. Hale, 83; L. Horne, 92; M. Hogan, 85; P. Hagan, 95; O. J. Hamilton, 85; F. Keller, 85; P. Krueper, 90; J. Krost, 86; J. Kuebel, 83; J as. Kelly, 70; J. P. Kinney, 85; A. Keenan, 91; J. J. Kotz, 75; F. C. Luther, 78; H. Murphy, 85; O. McKone, 84; J. H. McConlogue, 81; F. McMullen, 85; C. F. Mueller, 75; M. J. McCue, 100; J. P. McHugh, 100; V. F. McKinnon, 98; J. D. Montgomery, 97; H. Maguire, 97; P. W. Mattimore, 82; W. J. Murphy, 98; P. F. McCullough, 98; J. McEniry, 98; C. Nodler, 81; W. Ohlman, 83; E. Poor, 83; J. Pembroke, 87: J. B. Prudhomme, 82; L. Prudhomme, 80; R. Price, 84; J. Rithert, 79; R. Routledge, 82; E. Robinson, 85; O. Rettig, 80; M. J. Regan, 97; J. Rice, 84; J. Rogers, 89; C. L. Stuckey, 87; A. K. Schmidt, 72; G. Saxinger, 82; J. J. Shugrue, 85; J. Smith, 80; J. J. Quinn, 99; J. P. Quinn, 98; S. T. Spalding, 92; C. H. Saylor, 82; W. Von Volken-burg, 71; F. Walter, 84; G. Walters, 81; E. A. Walters, 76; F. Winkler, 65.
JUNIORS.
J. Arentz, 83; A. Abrahams, 85; R M. Anderson, 90; F. Bloom, 100; J. Berteling, 85; A. J. Burger, 100; M. Bm-non, 88; J. Baker, 89; A. Burger, Jr., 93; M. Burns, 86; J. Byrne, 87; C. Brinkman, 88; G. Cassidy, 95; C. Clarke, 88 ; F. Clarke, 84; J. Carrer, 70; W. Cannon, 86; G. Crawford, 68; H. Canoil, 83; W. Cox, 64; J. Cassard, 78; F. Carroll, 81; C. Cavanaugh, 82; F. C. Cavanaugh, 85; G. H. Cochrane, 86; D. Coddington, 78; W. Doyle, 73; G. Donnelly, 82; E. Dmnelly, 62; P. Frain, 65; R. French, 75; L. Garceau, 84; J. Guthrie, 93; J. Gibbons, 89; H. Gramling, 83; J. Hafner, 82; J. Healy, 93; J. Herrick, 82,; A. Heitkam, 83; C. Hagan, 83; A. Hatt, 70; J. Halle, 77; W. Jones, 84; J. Lumley, 81; F. Lang, 83; J. Larkin, 77; J. Lemarie, 80; W. McCarthy, 88; J. McNellis, 80; R. P. Mayer, 76; F. McGrath, 79; A. Miller, 70; T. Nelson, 67; H. Neumark, 87; G. Orr, 87; T. O’Hira, 87; J. O’Donnell, 60; S. Perley, 80; J. Perea, 68; F. Pleins, 67; R. Pleins, 50; E. Pennington, 84; K. Reynolds, 81; A. Rietz, 84; W. Rielz, 88; M. Roughan, 40; J. Schoby, 80; G. Sugg, 88; K. Scanlan, 93; A. Sievers, 89; F. Singler, 74; W. Stang, 70; E. Walters, 83; S. Welty, 81; F. Weisert, 77; W. Walker, 86; C. Walsh, 87; W. Vander Hayden, 74; C. Van Monrick, 88; J. Kelly, 76; J. Ittenbach, 83; G. Itteubach, 89; J. Matthews, 91; R. Keenan, 78; A. Widdicombe, 99.
MINIMS.
A. Coghlin, 99; G. Lambiu, 97; P. P. Nelson, 95; O. Farrelly, 96; A. Bushey, 95; W. McDevitt, 98; J. Scanlan, 95; G. Rhodius, 94; J. Seeger, 90; J. Courtney, 100; W. Coolbaugh, 99; C. McGrath, 80; R. Costello, 90; N. Nelson, 100; M. Herrick, 85; G. Knight, 80; W. Coghlin, 98: C. Grennan, 75; A. Hartrath, 94; J. Inderrieden, 96; Joseph Courtney, 98; F. Gaffney, 90; C. Crowe, 100; H. Snee, 96; H. Kitz, 95; Jos. Inderrieden, 94; S. Bushey, 92; C. Bushey, 95; T. O'Neil, 98; C. Long, 96; J. McGrath, 95 ; C. Herzog, 93; C. Garrick, 95; C. Welty, 94; E. Herzog, 96; J. Crowe, 94; E. Enner, 75; P. Fitzgerald, 96; J. Devine, 95; F. Farrelly, 94; I. McGrath, 94.
—Reproaches, unsupported by evidences, affect only the character of him who utters them.—Horace Walpole.
—A woman was offered a thousand dollars if she would remain silent for two hours. At the end of fifteen minutes she asked:. “Isn’t the time most up?”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
365
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the'past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, J. Boehm, T. Barrett, M. W. Bannon, P. J. Cooney, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, I. Chatterton, B. J. Claggett, F. Cannon, P. Crueper, J. Carroll, W. L. Dechant, E Dempsey, E. C. Davenport, A. Dorion, C. K.. De Vries, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, R. Francis, J. Fuerstein, E. Gramling, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, F. Hellman, A. Hertzog, M. Hogan, J. J. Houck, J. 8. Hoffman, F. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, J. Q. Johnson, A W. Johnson F. Keller, J. Kuebel. J. J. Kotz, B. Kratzer, J. Kelly, J. Krost, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, J. J. Murphy, H. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, H. Maguire, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, V. F. McKinnon, J. P. McHugh, J. J. McEniry, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, E. McMahon, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, Wm. O’Brien, J. Pembroke, E. Poor, J. J. Quiun, J. P. Quinn, E. W. Robinson, J. Rogers, J. dothert, J. Rabbitt, T. 8. Summers, G. Saxinger, J. J. Shugrue, 8. T. Spalding, C. L. Stuckey, F. Williams, F. Walter, F. Winkler, J. 8. Smith.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arentz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, A. J. Buerger. H. E. Canoll, F. E. Carroll, C. Cavanagh, G. P. Cassidy, G. H. Cochrane, C. J. Clarke, R. French, L. Gar-ceau, J. W. Guthrie, J. A Gibbons, H. A. Gramling, J. F. Herrick, G. L. Ittenbach, J. B. Ittenbach. R. E. Keenan, J. Lumley, J. A. Larkin, W. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, A. A. Miller, T. E. Nelson, F. T. Pleins, S. S. Perley, E. J. Pennington, K. W. Reynolds, H. Rietz, W. Rietz, M. Roughan, K. L. Scanlan, W. Btaug, G. E. Sugg, A. Sievers, F. J. Singler, C. Van Mourick, E. S. Walters, W. B. Walker, W. A. Widdicombe, F. Weisert, J. O’Donnell, E. Donnelly, J. L. Lemarie, D. S. Coddington, J. Matthews, J. Cassard, J. R. Lawton, C. Brinkman, J. Halle, P. Frain, J. E. Halloran, W.D. Cannon, R. M. Anderson, C. Walsh, S. Welty.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, J. Scanlan, G. Lambin, J. A. Bushey, G. Rhodius, J. Seeger, W. Coghlin, Jos. Courtney, Jas. Courtney, W. J. Coolbaugh, J. Inderrieden, A. Hartrath, R. Costello, G. Knight, O. Farrelly, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Crowe, C. Garrick, W. McDevitt, C. Long, P. Fitzgerald, C. Herzog, E. Herzog, J. Crowe, J. McGrath, I. McGrath, J. Devine, S. Bushey, C. Bushey, T.
O'Neill, E. Esmer, H. Snee, F. Farrelly.

—The Examination in music has closed. The promotions are given below.
—On Wednesday evening Professor Stace delivered his able lecture on Astronomy in the study-hall.
—The Examination has so far proved very interesting and satisfactory. Notes will appear next week. '
The Semi-Annual Examination in music closed on Feb. 1st, 1878. We give below the average notes and promotions :	-
First Class—To graduate next June: Misses B’. Wilson and T. Pleins. Promoted to First Class: Misses C. Silverthorn, A. Geiser, L. Kirchner.	.
Second Class—Average notes, from 95 to 100. Promoted to this Class: Misses M. Spier, L. O’Neill, E. Miller, N. Galen. Second Div.—Average, 98 to 100. Promoted to this Division: Misses A. Gordon, H. Buck, M. Usselman, A. Henneberry, G. Welch.
Third Class—Average, 98 to 100. Promoted to this Class: Misses L. New, J. Burgert. Promoted to the Second Division: Misses C. Ortmeyer, W. Dudley, A. Farrell, A. Kirchner, M. Brown, L. Walsh, E. Lange, A. McGrath, N. McGrath. .
Fourth Class—Average, 95 to 100. Promoted to this Glass: Misses A. Morgan, P. Gaynor, B. Anderson, J. Cooney. Second Division —Average, 95 to 100. Promoted to this Division: Misses M. Winston, E. Richardson, M. Way, M. Mullen.
Fifth Class—Average, 90 to 100. Promoted to this Class: Misses M. White, J. Winston, K. Barrett, L. Papin, E. Shaw. Second Division—Average, 90 to 100. Promoted to this Division: Misses N. Hackett, L. Wood, C. Van Namee, M. Plattenburg, A. Ewing, M. Halligan, C. Boyce.
Sixth Class—Average, 85 to 95. Promoted to this Class: Misses I. Fisk, A. Brown, M. Lambin, E. Tighe, A. Peak, L. Fox, M. Casey. Second Division—Average, 80 to 90. Promoted to this Division: Misses M. Birch and L. Chilton.
Seventh Class—Average, 75 to 90. Promoted to this Class: Misses J. Kingsbury, L. Ellis, E. Mulligan.
Eighth Class—Average, 80 to 90. Promoted: Misses M. McFadden, E. Wooten.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A Henneberry L. O’Neill, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, H. Russell, M. Ewing, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, W. Dudley-, A. Dopp, C. Silverthorne, M. Casey, L. Kirchner, L. Keena, M. Luce, M. Danaher, G. Welch, K. Riordan, E. Shaw, M. Halligan, L. Otto, M. Brown, M; Wagner, T. Pleins, M. Plattenburg, J. Burgert, C. Ortmeyer, L. Schwass. F. Brazelton, M. Sullivan, M. Galen, A. Farrell, M. and J. Winston, S. Rheinboldt, M. Hayes, E. Parrott, M. Loeber, E. Wright, J. Barnes, M. White, M. Mullen, E. Kelly, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Harris, P. Gaynor, E. Lange, N. and M. McGrath, M. Way, N. Keenan, 3. Hamilton, L. Tighe, A. Brown, A. Thomas, L. Walsh, T. Papin, M. Cleary, L. Neu.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Kirchner, F. Kingfield, A McGrath, J. Kingsbury, L. Fox, M. Hake, A. McKinnis, M. Ivers, B. and T. Haney, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Mulligan, A. Ewing, A. Gordon, A. Morgan. L. Chilton, A Geiser, M. Lambin, F. Fitz, L. Ellis, L. Wood, N. Hackett, M. McFadden, F. Sunderland, L. French, L. Van Namee.
Chicago, E. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Ttovite to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express...................10 00 p.m.	6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintenden
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lows Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm	'
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
•I. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.	.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST-, opposite Sherman House, Chicago, Illinois.
366	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C-, Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South. Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 am. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 pm; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am. -
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
0 12 p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 240 am: Cleveland, 7 <5 a m; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 a m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. ArnvesatLaporte5 50am; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 pm. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago 11 10 a. m. '
8 45 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
frofribtor of the
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
f. S HICKEY.
irWrfto, TYPE FOUNDERS,
CHICAGO,
Have the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from vest quality of metal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type, manufactured by Marder, Luse & Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.	jan 5-3m
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
•	CONTENTS:
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Grouudhoggery, Calendars,
The Months—description, etc.,
January, February, March, April, May, -June, July, August, September, October, November, December,
The Two Rules, •
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women,
Pio Nono,
A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q,
In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer, The Duty of our Young
Men,
Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ?
Sonnet,
Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella,
Aerolites.
Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
Address,	J. A. LION'S,
Notre Dame, Ind.; or, The Scholastic Printing Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
SAMVEL
MANUFACTUKEB AND DEALER IN
AMATEUR TOOLS,
FOB
Amateurs, Boys and Girls.
Turning- Lathes,	Scroll Saws,
Hand Saws,	Saw Blades,
Fancy Woods,	New and Handsome
Small Engine Castings,	designs for Brace-
Small Tools of all Kinds, lets, etc.
Also, Publisher of
The Amateur Mechanic,
A Monthly Journal of Practical Information for Amateurs, Boys and Girls. 50 Cents per Annum.
Send Stamp for sample Copy. Address
SAMUEL HARRIS,
dec8-tf 15 South Canal Street, Chicago, III.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
.367
Attorneys at Law.
BRONV1N <fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «& NIITCITTHLILi IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rnllOMAS R. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJVDJIIVG & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor..Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOIIiV F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVIEEE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a* Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Math St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLI A IMC J. CL A RK.E (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TAMES A.. O’RRIILILY—of ’69—Attorney at Law, eJ 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOIITM D. McCORMICK-«f ’73-At’orney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Bailway
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	i Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 28 “	11 10 “	6 20 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles ....	10 45 “	12 15 “	8 14 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 40 p.m	10 00 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson....	3 45 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit .. ..	6 45 “	o 30 “		3 35 “	8 <0 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a in		9 5o p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson....	10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.n	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	4 00 a.m	2 53 “	2 25 a th
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	4 24 “	12 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	7 50 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago. .	6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 45 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame—8 52“	6 38 “ Ar. Niles—	9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager. Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [Of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian.punished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per a, num.
D. A. Clarks, of ’70.
TUHIIU A. V fcj M ARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the I Blessed Virgin, pub’ished every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
THE SCUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74)'$1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best In the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk. rpHTE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-I igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THEMATTESON II OU SUE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. VJLYjNIN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CALLING CARDS—no two alike, with name ^t_) neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
QK CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic XfD Almanac for 1S78. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Minera’ogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed Cree to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the speci es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenie-1 location. This has been ft und at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, tty cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of loo illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections giveDana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Dlustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens
25 inbox	50 inbox	100 in box
$ 50 1 50	$1 3	$1 50 I 6
Crystals and fragments.... Students’ size, larger..... Amateur’s size,2^ in.x 1)4_______ . _____________
Hteh School or Acad, size,2)£x3)4 in. shelf specimens College size, 3)4x6 in., shelf specimens.........
ICO - ■ —	200 — ■ ■	300
$11$ 2		$ 3
51	10	25
10	25	50
25 I	50	»0
500	100	3<0
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D„
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Scienc fife Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sdf-ences and of the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park, New York.
368
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, 187V.						
Northward Trains.		No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.		No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.	
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru			4.35 P. 31 7.10 “ 8.10 “		12.25 P. 31. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. 31. 9.52 “ 10.47 “	
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte	 “ Michigan City			8.25 P. 31. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. 31.			11.10 A. 31. 1.14 P. 31. 2.45 “ 3.30 “	
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.		No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.			NO. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis.... “ Kokomo	 Ar. Pera		5.30 P. 31. 2.55 “ 1.50 “		4.10 A. BL 1.50 “ 12.38 “			9.10 A. BL G.33	“ 5.37	“
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. 31. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. 3L		12.33 A. 31. 10.25 P. 3L 8.50 “ 8.05 “			
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.	Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.						
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 345 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 131 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.	‘
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holv Cross.	4
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academi-	•
cal and Preparatory Deoartments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music. ,
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.	?
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a
special course.	.	A
Special terms for two or more members of a family.	;
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.	'	<
For Catalogue, address:	•	■	\
MOTHER SUPERIOR, .	*
St. Hary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.	, i
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
. JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.				
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, MaH.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 P.M.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 AM.
Rochester,		13.53 “	1015 “	258 “	745 “
Alliance,				3.10 A-AT.	1250 pm	5 35 “	1100 “
Orrville,		4.46- “	230 “	712 “	
Mansfield		7.00 “	440 “	920 “	311 “
Crestline,.	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	945 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 am.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,		9.35 “	7.35 “	1125 “	
Lima,.		10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 am	
Ft.Wayne,		1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	3 40 “	
Plymouth’,		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,.	Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	I
GOING EAST.	i				
	ho. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,	Leave	9.10 P.M.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.		 r
Plymouth,		3.46 am.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.10 P.M.	11.35 “	
Lima,. I...’		8.55 “	4.05 “		
Forest,		10.10 “	520 “	348 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.35 “	
Crestline,	Leave'	13.05 p.m.	7.15 p M		6 05 a m
Mansfield,		13.35 “	744 “	500 “	6 55 “
Orrville,....			3.30 “	9 38 “	710 u	915 “
Alliance,		4.05 “	1115	9 00 “	11 20 «
Rochester,		6.32 “	121 A.M	11 06 u	
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	13.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily.		Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh		
daily except Saturday.	Train No. 4 leaves Chicago dailv ex- “			
cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.				
THIS IS THE OXLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEES, G. P. & I. A.