Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper vietiiTus; vive quasi eras moritturos.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 27, 1879. Number 4.
Two Singers.
A singer sang in the halls of fashion—
Noble, gifted, and highly bred— He sang of pleasure and love’s soft passion, And frivolous souls on his dainties fed;
He lent to Folly his splendid powers,
His song survived but the summer’s day, When Winter came to destroy the flowers, With bloom and fragrance it passed away.
A singer sang ’mid the lanes so lonely,
Where the Master’s poor ’neath their burdens trod— Sang Hope and Trust with a fervor holy,
And souls were lifted in love to God— Were raised and saved by the poet’s teaching,
And light illumined the darkness dim ;
And the song from earth to the heavens reaching Was played on the harps of the Seraphim.
Thus, take the moral to heart, my neighbor, Whether worker or singer, the false or true
Shall blend with, and mar, thy life’s long labor, Or crown with grandeur sublime to view.
The gloss and tinsel, without the merit,
E’en man’s weak judgment will fail before ;
But that which breathes of Truth’s fair spirit
Shall live when the changes of Time are o’er.
—P. Carpenter in “The Pilot.”
Sixes and. Sevens.
The verification of cyclical periods by experience is a work that requires time. Among the ancients, before the exact length of the year was known, it was roughly estimated that twelve revolutions of the moon would equal one of the sun; and, again, that the time of a lunar revolution was thirty days; hence the length of a year was first fixed at three hundred and sixty days. We still divide the circle into 360 equal parts, which we call degrees—that is our historical memorial of the first rude attempt to get at the length of a year. When the number 360 was fixed upon, a series of meteorological circumstances may have favored it, but a generation of attentive observers could not have passed away without establishing the fact that the true year was at least five days longer than the hypothetical year. Five days were added by some fearless innovator, and the world was satisfied until the age of Julius Caesar, when it was again found that the year as by law established was about a quarter of a day too short. The silent witnesses in the heavens still refused to obey the mandate of Caesar. Centuries after, the Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church made a final correction which subsists to our own day. He found that the allowance of one day
every four years was a little too much, enough to gain a day in three centuries out of four. And so at last, after thousands of years of study and observation, we have found the length of the most important unit of time.
Now here comes a man—an F. R. A. S., if you please, who thinks he has determined a meteorological cycle by a course of observations extending over—2700 ? no—270 ?— no, but over 27 years. Hear ye him!
“A NEW WEATHER THEORY.
[h. BOE, F. B. A. S., IN “LONDON TIMES.”]
“ When the number representing any given year is even, and exactly divisible by three, that year is the middle one of three cold and wet summers.
“ When the number representing the year is odd, and divisible by three, then that year is the middle of a triad of dry and hot summers.
“ For example, 1860 is even, and divisible by three, and the prevailing characteristic of the three years 1859,1860, 1861 was wet, or wet and cold; and again, 1863 is odd, and divisible by three, and everybody remembers 1862,1863 and 1864 as bright, hot and dry summers.
“Taking now a range of twenty-seven years over which, my own personal observations extend, and applying the rules just given, the wet and cold triads were 1853-’55> 1859-61, 1865-67, 1871-’73 and 1877-’79, while the dry and hot triads were 1856-58,1862-’64,1868-’7O and 1874-’76; and without claiming that no single year broke loose from this very order of seasons, I fearlessly maintain that all the markedly wet or dry summers of the past twentyseven years fall accurately within some wet or dry period as given above; so that no very wet year falls in what should have been a dry period, nor any very dry year in what hypothetically was a wet period.
“The number 1881 is odd, and divisible by three, and, if there is anything in my theory, that year ought to be the middle one in a triad of hot and dry summers. I am looking forward, therefore, with much confidence to a good summer in 1880, followed by similar good ones, in 1881 and 1882, and for the sake of every interest in the country, I earnestly hope my expectation may not be disappointed.”
Mark well the crudity of this six years’ cycle. In the first place, he knows of no world beyond the British Islands. Our summer of 1878 was remarkably hot.
Secondly, he recognizes only two kinds of weather: cold and wet is one, and hot and dry the other. He does not observe the possible combination of cold with dry or of hot with moist. In speaking of two summer months of the present year, we might characterize July as having been hot and moist, and August as cold and dry. The summer as a whole it would be difficult to characterize at all.
Ages ago a meteorological cycle of seven years was
50
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
formed by the Egyptians from actual observation, and some of our almanacs are still guided by it It has been disregarded by modern science, because it smacks of astrology; but let me here remark that science is beginning to re. consider her rashness in throwing astrology overboard. The old astrologer saidjsimply. “Jupiter rules the weather”; the scientist of our own day says, 1, “ The various positions of Jupiter influence the spots on the sun.” 2, “ The spots on the sun have an effect on the magnetic currents around the earth.” 3, “The magnetic currents produce the different changes in the weather.” You see it takes the modern man a little longer to say the same thing. The old astrologer gave in a few words the result of ages of observation. The modern man casts away the experience-of ages, and strikes out a wild theory of his own. He thinks because the ancients would not give the reason for their theories that they therefore had none. Now here is the Egyptian cycle of seven years, as supposed to be governed in rotation by seven of the heavenly bodies arranged in the order of their distance from the earth.
(1)	Saturn—cold-and dry—an unfortunate year.
(2)	Jupiter—warm, moist and genial—the best of all years.
(3)	Mars—very hot and dry—oppressively so.
(4)	The sun—hot and dry, but not oppressively so. A genial year.
(5)	Venus—warm and moist.
(6)	Mercury—changeable.
(7)	The moon—cold and wet.
Now this cycle may be fanciful enough as far as the assignment of the years to the planets is concerned. But the character of the weather in each year was established by a long series of observations. It was found for example that a particularly cold, dry and miserable year was followed by a year of abundance, and that again by a hot and dry one, and that after seven years the cold and miserable year would come again, and so on. Not that every year of Saturn was equally cold and dry. No two years are precisely alike; that they knew as well as we. But the eighth year had the same general character as the first. Saturn was not in as malignant an aspect at some times as at others—he was “afflicted” by the other planets, and restrained from the full exercise of his power.
What is very remarkable is that the six-year cycle of H. Roe may be reconciled to some extent with the seven-year cycle of the Egyptians. Suppose the first triad of “ wet and cold” years that he struck to be those of the moon, Saturn and Jupiter. Jupiter’s year, though not cold, would be moist enough for Mr. Roe, who is evidently not over particular. Then Mars, the sun, and Venus, would be the hot years. Mercury, the moon, and Saturn, a cold triad. Jupiter Mars and the sun a hot one. Venus would be sufficiently moist to come into the wet triad with Mercury and the moon. Then Saturn would be dry enough to be called one of the hot triad with Jupiter and Mars. The sun’s year is not so hot as that of Mars, nor so dry; hence, with liberal construction, he might be placed in a wet triad with Venus and Mercury. Here are twenty-one years throughout which the six-year cycle corresponds tolerably with the seven-year one. Mr. Roe only needs six more to complete his twenty- seven years of observation. Now the next triad, consisting of the moon, Saturn and Jupiter, should be a dry triad. Saturn’s may be regarded as the central year of the three, and is dry, although not hot. The moon’s year must be one of those which, as Mr. Roe says,
has “broken loose.” So must the year of Mars in the next triad, which should be cold and wet. For eighteen years, while the moon is passing through Mr. Roe’s dry triads, and Mars at the same time is passing through the wet triads, there would be a difficulty in reconciling the two cycles; when, however, the sun became the first year of a dry and hot triad, the cycles would agree tolerably for 24 years, when the same triad of the sun, Venus and Mercury would have to be taken as a wet one, as above. Mars and the moon are the only planets whose character is sufficiently prononce to conflict seriously with Mr. Roe’s system. Jupiter and Venus can be placed in the “hot and dry ” triads by reason of their warmth, or in the “ cold and wet ” triads on the score of their moisture. Saturn also, will be dry with the “ hot and dry ” ones and cold with the “ cold and wet.” The sun is hot and dry, but following Mars, so much hotter and drier, may be deemed cold and wet by comparison. Mercury is the most accommodating of all.	.
But we are far from thinking that any cycle will ever be satisfactorily constructed to suit the eccentricities of the weather. The earth, in common with the whole solar system, is drifting rapidly through unmeasured regions of interstellar space. Attenuated masses of cosmical matter, encountered in this never-ending journey, become visible as comets, and swing around our sun as a temporary centre. Other masses, without becoming visible, may influence our atmosphere and magnetic currents in entirely different ways.
It is impossible to say whether the vast track which the solar system traverses in its passage through interstellar space be a straight line or the arc of a curve. If it be a curve, it is possible that it may be retraced a second time, but its cycle will be measured by figures compared with which the fabulous myriads of Hindoo mythology will • be trifling. And even if it returns upon the same track, the same cosmical bodies will scarcely be there to meet it, and if there be any connection between these and the weather, there will be no cycle of the weather.
The great question in all these cycles is: How much similarity must exist in order to warrant us in saying that two years are “alike”? No two years—no two days—no two hours are precisely alike. Still some days are very much alike, and then other days are entirely different. There are days without a cloud—many of them in our fine climate; and then again there are days on which the sun is not to be seen at all. These will form two classes. Rainy days another. Can we form the years into such classes at all ? That is the question.
The old Egyptian method is still handed down in some of our almanacs, and the present year is assigned to Mercury. The changeable character of the weather, passing rapidly from one extreme to the other, seems to bear out the old doctrine.
—“Colleges in Rebellion,” is the heading of one of the dailies. There are several “unsectarian” institutions in this country, just now, trying to solve the question of how	4
to make moral young men and women without the influence of religion. We read of no such troubles in Catholic y institutions, where everything connected with discipline moves along with the ease and precision of clock-work.
The time is coming when infidel education will demonstrate more clearly that America has been nursing a viper.
—Catholic Columbian.
THE NOTRE DAM®. SCHOLASTIC
51
Nature and. Man Regarded as Agents of Change, fibres and timbers, or decked' our gardenswith flowers as-
Nothing more beautifully or more forcibly demonstrates the accord and harmony of the natural laws than the modi-

fications of the forms of life by the change of conditions, j Europe, and subsequently into the New World. They are We clear a forest, and as soon as the timid browser loses carried still further nowadays, even into the zones of the



1
Y
>
his shelter so in like manner does his food disappear; the wild beast is chased from its covert and deprived of its prey, and is seen no more; in like manner do birds migrate to districts and regions where insects and berries abound. We cultivate a plain, and the grub and chafer soon appear, to commence their havoc with the corn, while the worm appears in the under-tillage, until our common birds, attracted by their presence, are seen, and gradually we have a balance of vegetable and animal life restored. In Russia, until the last century, the sparrow was unknown; in like ■manner in our own country; but the rapid progress of corn culture and the signs of the progress of civilization has emboldened this bird to stay and spread. In the former country they may be found to have penetrated as far as Siberia. Partridges, whose food is principally corn, are to be found almost everywhere that that product is cultivated. Food, therefore, may be regarded as the connecting link between the fauna and flora of the climatic zones.
Space does not allow us here to trace the relations existing throughout the earth between the geological conditions and mineral produce, between the climate and soil on the one hand, and organic produce on the other. Experience teaches that physical facts modify exceedingly both climate and soil, and as a necessary consequence animal and vegetable produce. We know, still more, that a study of the geology of any region is a great help to the acquirement of a knowledge of the things it is capable of producing. In the New World there is no barrier between the equator and the poles, as the Himalayas and their adjuncts in the Old World, hence the dispersion of plants and animals is limited by more elastic conditions and boundaries.
Geological study and researches afford sufficient evidence that the zones of the earth have been subject to change both in climate and produce. These changes undoubtedly are effected by nature and man.
The analysis of the coal raised in the beds of the Arctic regions indicates a climate corresponding to that of midEurope, thus proving that at some period of the earth’s physical history, the poles, whose frosts we call eternal, have borne excessive heat.
The vibrations of the earth upon its axis, slow though they be, are nevertheless persistent; and although intervals of thousands of years are needed to make a perceptible comparison, yet the equilibrium of our planet undergoes a constant succession of changes. From the law established concerning central gravity we account for the continual rising of the coast of the Arctic Ocean and on the other hand the sinking of the bed of the Pacific. Man, guided by his intelligence and diligent labor, can modify the minor aspects of nature, and obtain from her bounty a vast increase of enjoyment. What are the limits of our power, and how are we to use it best and most profitably, are questions which it will not be expected that we should solve here.
By our acquaintance with the nature of the soil of a floral region we are able to judge when and where we can introduce plants into a country or transfer them to another. Thus it is that we have diffused the useful food plants, fruits,
sociated with the thoughts of home.
The vegetable kingdom is full of striking examples. The fruits of Asiatic origin were removed westward, into
southern hemisphere. The vine may now be found flourishing in South Africa and Australia. Grain peculiar either to the tropical or northern climes has gone with man into every habitable clime. Maize has been known now all o'ver the three continents of the East, and rice has been spread almost as widely in the West. To Chili we owe the potato, which has become the most ordinary food of more than millions. We find the pine-apple as plentifully grown round the Mediterranean as in its native soil, in the Bahamas and Bermuda. But what shall be said of tobacco ? Although unknown till the sixteenth century, it belts both sides of the equator far beyond the tropics. Cloves and pepper though natives only of the East, are as well adapted for the climates of either India. Coffee, in like manner, although belonging to Arabia and Abyssinia, has sped throughout the tropical zone. Thus also is nature aided by the mutual exchange of forest productions,. and each zone enriched by its corresponding representative species.
The wild horse and the cattle of South America seem destined to exterminate and supplant the native llama. The English sheep in Australia have driven the kangaroo inland, and almost completed its extinction. The happy effect of introducing our domestic animals into other countries has been to increase our resources for food and clothing, to add to our wealth and to the duration of human life.
Nature, again, has arranged the climatic zones in a manner whose simplicity and unity of working afford our minds an exalted pleasure. Between the continents, neeana intervene which obstruct the passage of certain forma of life: yet, many thousands of miles distant, we meet representatives of the same species of plants and animals Every class of animal has its representative animal in the Old and the New World respectively.. In America the puma represents the Asiatic and African lion, and the jaguar is known as the American leopard—all members of the same class. In like manner, the camel, the horse and the ass are the representatives of the llama and alpaca. The emeu in Australia and the rhea in the plains of South America hold a place similar to that of the ostrich coursing with the fleetness of the wind over the Arabian and African deserts. The feathered skins of the arctic regions, so much prized for warm winter trimmings, are matched by corresponding ones peculiar to the antarctic. Australian rivers have their analogous reptiles. The gavial of the Ganges and the crocodile of the Nile are generally allied with the alligator of the Mississippi and the cayman of South America. The fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammals of the East find their representative species in the West Indies.
In vegetation a similar divergence in unity pervades. The surfaces of Europe and America differ in the same zone, yet there is a strong resemblance. There is an impression of immensity, of vastness, in an American forest which a European one cannot convey. There are oaks and beeches and maples and wood-nuts, although differing both in magnitude and species. Nor is it otherwise with the fertile plains of India and groves of the Amazon. There are rich

52 V M /; :TSe':.NiOTM ’D:AME" SCHOLASTIC.
—	t ’ c «	’ *
palms in South'AmeijcJi as w^lVsin'in^i'p.ye^ different. So also ffle*sa‘g6 anS'thearica against the coquella and vegetable ivory; neither region second to the other. Similarly, the gum trees, and all harsh, leafless plants which grow in the three great peninsulas of America, Africa and Australia cause these countries to be regarded as a continuation of Asia. Lastly, the countries situated at antipodes possess in common not a plant identically the same, yet the trees in the one country find their counterpart species in those of the other.	P. J. M.
Rural Life and. Study.
Mr. Editob:—While coming from my paternal home in the crowded city of New York, to Notre Dame, my loved Alma ITaier, I felt completely charmed by the incomparable beauties of the rural sceneries through which I passed. A rural life always had many endearing and irresistible charms for me; so much so, indeed, that my fellowstudents often called me a “greeny.” I trust, however, that you will exonerate me from the unjust charge when you hear what I have to say on this sublime and ennobling subject.
I must confess, however, that at the age of fifteen, when I first arrived at Notre Dame, I was green enough to enquire of the dairy-man, whether it was the old cows or the young ones that gave the butter-milk. Until then, I never saw a cow milked, nor any useful vegetables growing, except in a flower-pot; and I assure you, Mr. Editor, there are thousands of boys and girls in our large cities in the same blissful ignorance.
The country is the natural abode of man. There he is in constant communion with nature; there, undisturbed by the turmoil of trade and commerce, unenslaved by the tyranny of fashion, unpolluted by the vices of promiscuous populace, the diligent student reads and studies, walks and recreates himself day after day, among bills, woods, and valleys, green meadows, and cultivated fields, and all things else that are calculated to inspire studious habits, as well as gratitude and devotion to the Giver of all good. There the student has frequent opportunities, nay, invitations, to look 'into his own heart, to commune with his own spirit, to develop and strengthen his native powers; in a word, to train and discipline his whole physical, moral and intellectual nature.
The woodland songster’s tuneful throats a thrilling chorus keep, While from the fairy crystal lakes, ambrosial breezes creep; On either hand the landscape spreads magnificent and wide, And fragrance sweet perfumes the gale from flowers on every side.
If you would allow youth unfettered to become what they are really capable of attaining, you must never throw them into the giddy mazes of city life; for there is something in the very quiet and solitude of the country which wonderfully elicits thought, develops character, and inclines people to holiness. It fostered the piety of Jerome, matured the labors of Augustine, and gave imperial Charlemagne religion for ambition; it is that which Scipio praised, that which Alfred practiced; which quickened zeal, matured genius, found out the secret things of science, helped repentance, shamed folly, and comforted the good with peace. To all men just and wise, to all men pure and perfect, how truly, Solitude, hast thou been the fostering, nurse of greatness!
"jt is not my intention tp dispute the services which are
’rendered to a country by the military art, mercantile pursuits, and other honorable employments; nor would I deny that very great enjoyments are derived from them; however, I am of opinion that a rural life, the life of a husbandman, surpasses them by far. Let the conqueror roam after a transient and perishable fame, let the incense of flattery be offered upon the shrine of his ambition, let him boast of the battles and the seiges that he past; but for my part I prefer, by far, the sweet and peaceful life of that man who awaits his country’s call and flies to her defense, offering, as a bulwark to her invaders, a body hardened by constant and unwearied labor. The merchant who is the slave of a thousand cares, who is rich to-day but may be poor to-morrow—the pampered youth, enervated by luxury, outraging nature by turning night into day, and vice versa—these may think they enjoy life, whereas in reality they are but killing time; they have not the shadow of true enjoyment, even though they possess the means. But the lord of the soil is the true prince, nature’s nobleman; the ruddy glow of health is on his cheek, and he is capable of enjoying the bountiful gifts of nature, the beauties of hill and dale, of forest and lake.
I admire the simple habitant of the country who gives himself up to the culture of the fields, and who reaps a hundredfold reward in golden grain, and fruits, and flowers. His rejoicings are peaceful and pure, his ambition is hurtful to no one, his labors diffuse happiness and abundance around. The simple child of nature, he delights in the charms of a rural life. Spring comes in upon him, crowned with flowers of every description, which exhale delightful odors, to regale his olfactory organs. The tender herbs spring up beneath his feet, and the warbling of the birds, so delightful to the ear, is heard on every side. When opening Spring bursts Winter’s bonds, the farmer’s heart
is glad,	-
His forest trees, like giant men, all smile with beauty clad; The lilies fair are budding forth, beneath the genial skies ; Their pefume sweet, as Adam felt, while yet in Paradise.
I would now ask my young friends, who idolize city life and fashion, what possible pleasures of the city can compare with those enjoyed in the country? What more pleasing picture can there be seen than that which we have often beheld from the lofty summit of the old University, the smiling, flowery landscape lighted from heaven by sweetest sunshine ? or looking towards that evening sky, beneath the hues of whose inimitable touches one could almost dream that there floated isles of paradise, whereon the spirits of the blessed were rejoicing?
Krom rural heights at set of sun, When his victorious course is run, ’Tis sweet to view him from afar Descending from his fiery car, To kiss the hilltops he has blessed Ere slumbering in the golden West.
The clouds, like courtiers, round him press To get their monarch’s last caress;
All anxious to obtain his bright And last loved smile, ere sable night	"
Dispels their brilliant, gaudy show, Which to himself they really owe.
It thrills my soul to gaze upon
. That liquid sea of setting sun,	.
Amid whose hues of rich device You’d dream were isles of paradise, Whereon the spirits of the blest Rejoiced in an eternal rest.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	53
Then let me live among the hills, Secure from care and city ills; Let my young steps forget to roam Or seek a better, happier home: Where I have passed such happy hours, In Alma Mater's fragrant bowers.
A Student.
r
h
b
<■
A
V
i
'r
r
The Drama.
The importance of this subject will be easily admitted by every right thinking man—by all who understand the wants of a people in their social relations—from the fact that it pertains to the happiness and to the principal and honest amusement of society. What is right and lawful lays claim to our consideration, and what is wrong merits our disapprobation and disapproval in proportion to its evil nature and demoralizing influences. It is, then, the aim of the writer of this article to show that the drama deserves patronage„that there is nothing in it, strictly speaking, at variance with righteousness, reason, and common sense.
It is evident to all, that every human being has in his or her nature something of the playful and joyous; and hence it is that the life of man is more or less influenced by the share possessed by those natural acquirements. It is, we think, a sign of anything but a good-natured man not to be able to give and take an innocent joke; to be dead, as it were, to everything lively; to be unable to participate in nothing of a cheerful and joyous character. “Laugh and grow fat,” is an old and vulgar saying, but nevertheless a truthful one, bearing on its face a certain degree of wisdom, and inviting all to follow its dictates. True laughter proceeds from the heart, and merely indicates the pleasure which the soul experiences from its relation to the senses when influenced by whatever is pleasing and mirthful. If we compare the laugh of a corrupted heart to that of an innocent child, or of one not conscious of moral wrong, we will find that there is a vast difference between them: the one is forced and unnatural; the other is clear and hearty. A person whose conscience is darkened, whose heart is weighed down with feelings of remorse, by the recollections of dark deeds, will seldom free himself so much as to be able to take part in innocent pleasure, mirth or laughter. When those things are present, such a man is out of his element, uneasy, and longs to separate himself from these soul-stirring and joyful amusements. While, on the other hand, the innocent heart, the good conscience, when free from sorrow or sickness, is free and unrestrained in its action, so far as pure mirth and joy are concerned; and the natural consequence is a ringing laugh as an appreciation of the pleasure that is afforded by the present surroundings.
But in order to excite laughter—which is, after all, a pleasure—there must be some amusement adapted by its nature to this incitement of laughter; and hence it is that a worthy amusement must have been considered and thought of long before the drama was instituted for the pleasure and amusement of mankind. At all times and in all places some kind of amusements were in vogue, although, as was the case with ancient Borne, some of these amusements were inhuman and cruel. We have at the present day, however, many kinds of enjoyments, but principal among these is the drama when everything of an immoral tendency is extracted therefrom. We know that many things that are blameworthy take place in theatres, but it is the abuse and corruption of the drama.
Yet, notwithstanding this, the theatre is not unfrequently the stronghold of much that is good and praiseworthy, and many a one has left its portals filled with good intentions—a love of the good and beautiful, and a hatred of evil.
All will admit that our standard plays are of an en nobling character, and well adapted to bring out whatever is good in the heart; the effort of the actor to enter into the spirit of his role, to paint the actions of the hero, claim the admiration of the audience. It is indeed too bad that the tendency of the present age is towards the sensational, thus forcing the dramatists to compose in that style and tenor to suit the public taste: the people want such and such, and there is, as it were, a compelling on their part to the reception of what they desire. The public cry for something, and it is given them; the fault therefore lies mainly with themselves. Put a moral and wholesome play upon the stage, and the run is very likely to be short; while, on the other hand, something which is all show, and full of startling effects, is sure to be a success. Yet we cannot but to some extent blame the managers who deal with the public in this way, and it is simply a question of the lawfulness of those exhibitions and the culpability of the leaders. They say they cannot make anything if they put solid and moral influencing plays upon the boards; but why not be content with what they can make by this healthful course of action, and not be, indirectly at least, the cause of a social evil?
The plays of Shakespeare, Sheridan, etc., are brought forward now but seldom, yet it is surprising how they are listened to and applauded, and the many brilliant “ stars ” who travel from one large city to another and give delineations of the mighty characters formed by those great playwriters are always respected as artists and as men to whom the people owe much. This, after all, goes to show that were nothing but respectable theatres allowed—were the civil authorities more zealous in guarding the morals of the people, and were all places of an evil import discountenanced, and the guilty party punished by law, the tone of the drama would be improved; it would assume a healthy appearance, and the result would be beneficial to mankind.
But now the question arises whether the drama is to be condemned on account of the abuse that attends it, or the bad use that is made of it, the dissemination of immorality ? There is no doubt but that so far as it is bad and of an evil tendency it should be severely censured, and condemned; while on the other hand, in so far as it is good and has a moral tendency, it should receive the support and patronage of society. Take, for instance, the Shakespearean play of “King Lear,” and who can listen to it without a heart softened by filial love and a horror of disobedience ? Will not the breast of a disobedient and ungrateful child be filled with grief at the great sins he now sees in their true aspect, but which when done by himself he regarded as of little or no consequence; and the maddened grief of the heart-stricken old father at the disobedience of his two daughters, and the reversion of all his fatherly love to the daughter whom he had cast off, warns fathers to be kind and partial alike to all their children, as, perhaps, the children they most favor will prove serpents nourished by their own partial hand, while the poor unfavored child may bear in his or her breast a love undiminished by the hate of such a father.
The influence of the drama can, therefore, be wholesome; and what is needed to improve it is, to banish from the
54
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
stage everything of the sensational, mechanical effects, etc., and place in their stead the moral and self-reliant plays of our great dramatists. In this way, then, good and beneficial results would follow. The theatre should be made a school of wisdom, wit, laughter, and elocution—an honest place of amusement, where many good and lasting lessons of virtue and morality could be learned.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mr. Longman, the last of the founders of the cele. brated publishing house which bears his name, died lately.
—“ Lord Beaconsfield as a Sham ” is the title of a pretty plain-spoken article in a late number of the London Mayfair.
—Ackermann, of Munich, has issued a catalogue of all literature relating to the Faust legend between the years of 1519 and 1879.
. —Mr. Henry O’Meara, editor of “ Catholic Church Notes” in the Boston Herald, is writing a history of the Catholic Church in New England.
—Justin McCarthy’s History of Our Own Times” is to be completed in four volumes, and the first two have already passed to a tenth edition.
—Gustave Hippolite Rogets, the famous French tenor, who made a tour with Jenny Lind on her first visit to England, is dead, aged 64.
—Mr. A. Mackenzie, editor of the Celtic Magazine, Scotland, is going to make an autumn journey through parts of Canada, and will have a volume on it in due time.
—Moondyne, by Mr. John Boyle O’Reilley, is so popular that a third edition is almost exhausted. The author is to dramatize the work for representation on the New York stage.	-
—M. Zola tolerates Shakespeare and Ben Jonson, but has no liking for Dickens. He has read fifty English novels of the past few years, and thinks them, without exception, very bad.
—Mme. Julia Rive King, assisted by Miss Anna Drasdil, the well-known contralto of New York, is engaged to give a series of concerts, beginning in October. A treat for those who will attend.
—The death of Mr. Severn, the devoted friend of Keats, in whose home, and indeed in whose arms, the poet died, has led to the announcement that Dr. Valerian!, of Rome, who was a friend of Mr. Severn’s, possesses some very interesting manuscripts of Keats.
—The various Catholic Student Associations of Germany held a general meeting at Bonn from the 1st to the 4th of August The festival began with a Solemn High Mass in the Church of the Sacred Heart, at which about seventy members of the associations were present. Many more arrived by trains in the course of the morning, until the number of representatives amounted to about two hundred. Excursions were made to several of the beautiful and historic places in the neighborhood. There was a banquet, and on the Sunday several old members of the associations joined the students, and assisted in their deliberations on the common weal.
—To think of a book which tells of a nation’s history for 3,500 years may almost frighten one, with its dry, and dreary, and dusty records; but it may be of some interest to know that such a book is to be found. More people could tell of the Seven Sages of Greece, or perhaps of the Seven Sleepers, than of the Four Masters, and yet the Four Masters flourished nearer to our own century. The first of them, by name Michael O’Clery, was born in County Donegal, about 1580, A. D. He became a Franciscan monk at Louvain, and was sent to his own country to search out the history of Irish Catholicity and of Irish saints. Perhaps his Superiors perceived how the lights of the old faith were burning dim in the cold, blighting atmosphere of Elizabeth’s reign, and the reigns of her successors. But whatever their motive, Michael O’Clery worked honestly, humbly, and faithfully for ten or fifteen years in various parts of the country, among documents, martyrologies, genealogies
and records. He employed colleagues, and they produced three “Tracts,” the first on the Kings of Erin, the second on the Saints of Eriu, the third on the Inhabitants of Erin, from the year 268 after the Flood, to the year 1171 A; D. It is supposed that during the course of this work the idea was conceived of compiling the Annals of the Kingdom of Erin, telling of the general history, exploits, discussions, conflicts, and battles; and these writings in manuscript, completed by four monks, who were eminent masters in antiquarian lore, are called the “Annals of the Four Masters.” Father O’Clery was able to gain the patr mage of some of the old native chiefs, among them the Prince of Cuil-o-Finn, or Coolavin, who was one of the two Knights of Parliament sent to Dublin at that time for the county of Sligo. The work was finished in August, 1636 in the “reign of King Charles, King over England, France, Alba, and over Erin.”
—Talking of Mr. Tennyson’s “ Thomas 5. Becket,” says the Liverpool Catholic Times, reminds one of Mr. Aubrey de Vere’s “ St. Thomas of Canterbury,” and of his latest work, “Legends of the Saxon Saints,” already alluded to in this column. This noble Catholic poet possesses all that understanding in matters concerning the faith which the Laureate lacks; and he makes its presence felt in every line that he writes. This being so, the circulation of his works among Protestants, and the cordial reception given to them by the Protestant press, are welcome manifestations of the growth of Catholic feeling. The Athenaeum, for instance, though it thinks that the devotional interest of these Saxon legends is not “ in keeping with the present tendencies of thought,” and hints that it places the. school of Mr. Swinburne above that of Mr. Aubrey de Vere, nevertheless admits that the blank verse is vigorous, picturesque, and dramatic, and that “ whether the reader regards the spirit or the form of these legends, the feeling with which he lays them down is precisely indicated by the word respect.” The Daily Telegraph says that “the verse of Mr. Aubrey de Vere is among the most polished of his time”; and the Leeds Mercury, in a notice of a column and a quarter long, pays Mr. de Vere the high compliment of expressing a fear that his poetic excellence may be “ perilous ” to the Protestantism of his readers. And even the Church Review is “glad that the Saxon saints have been thus commemorated.” We trust that Mr. de Vere will go on adding to the Catholic literature of England ; and, to encourage him on his noble mission, there ought not to be a Catholic library in the kingdom without a complete edition of his works.
—Mr. Tennyson, in some of his shorter poems—such, for instance, as “St. Agnes’ Eve”—has beautifully wedded Catholic sentiment with immortal song; but it cannot be said that in his recent drama, “ Queen Mary,” he distinguished himself by either accuracy or fairness in dealing wiih Catholics and the Catholic Church. He called the work “ an historical drama,” if we remember the title-page aright; but the “history” was all second-hand from the page of Mr. Froude. The Laureate was, we believe, firmly persuaded,- when he published the poem, that no Catholic had been put to death in the reign of Elizabeth for religion alone; and, as may be inferred, he had never read Lingard, nor turned over the pages of Chailoner. Since then, however, these works have been placed in Mr. Tennyson’s hands by some of his Catholic friends, with the happy result of making him more careful in his treatment of another and a greater Catholic, whose career is the subject of a new drama, not yet in the possession of the publisher’s— viz., “ Thomas it Becket.” Of course it cannot be expected that a Protestant poet will see in the great Archbishop a saint of the Church; nor is it likely that he will entirely take for his text such a passage, for instance, as this, which occurs in a sermon preached by Cardinal Manning at Salford in 1874: “ St. Thomas gave his life for the liberties of the Church of God; he died for the laws of the land; he died in resisting the most unrighteous tyranny over the consciences of men; he died for the cause of justice; and, finally, he died for the inheritance of the people of England —freedom of faith, freedom of conscience, freedom of worship, that which Englishmen, Irishmen, and Scotchmen all professed to hold dearer than life itself." But it will be an advance on the old lines of Protestant tradition if Mr. Tennyson depicts, as we understand he does, Thomas
4
-<
1
4
1
4
- I

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
55
fi Becket as a true hero, and shows him in the light of that historian who says that through the whole of his career Saint Thomas was “ the darling of the people.” It need only be added that Mr. Tennyson is desirous of seeing his new drama put upon the stage, and has communicated with Mr. Irving to that effect.
i'
>-
i
4-
<
l
Scientific Notes.
—Commander Gorringe, U. S. N., has gone to Egypt to ship Cleopatra’s Needle, No. 2, for New York.
—Dr. Schliemann, the famous excavator, will finally come to America to reside permanently, as his property is almost all in Indiana.
—A company has been formed in Paris for the manufacture of unbreakable glass. It is claimed that it will crumble to pieces under great heat, but that it will not break.
—A. person in an upright position faints sooner from loss of blood than one who is lying down; when faintness comes on, a little cold water and a perfectly flat position are the best restoratives.
—A patent has been taken out in Germany for wicks for oil-lamps made of glass thread and also of a mixture of cotton and glass thread. They are said to add to the brilliancy of the light and to be virtually indestructible.
—To secure economy in electric lighting by diminishing the waste of the carbons, Delaurier purposes to guard the carbon poles from air currents, and thus favor the formation of an atmosphere of carbonic acid around them.
—In the tombs of Ancient Egypt women’s shoes have been discovered having soles of wood, to which are affixed four round props—a sort of foot-stool fixed to the feet, and raising the wearer about a foot in height. The shoes were laced in front.
—Carrier-pigeons flew the other day from Penzance to London—two hundred and seventy miles—in about five hours and a half. It is suggested that they be taken by outward bound vessels and sent home with reports of the weather. These reports might be of great service to mariners about to start on voyages.
—In a report made by the Department of Agriculture of the Italian Government, it is stated that borax used instead of salt in preserving butter imparts to the butter no flavor whatever, while it is entirely innocuous. Samples of fresh butter, in which much of the buttermilk was purposely left, have retained their natural fine flavor without change for three months after having been salted with borax.
—There has been a great deal of confusion, not only as to the height, but the spelling of one of the best known of the volcanoes of Iceland, which is Hekla. “ Hecla ” is wrong. Hekla is Icelandic, meaning hooded, in allusion to the snow or cloud which rests on its summit. The height of Hekla is 5,170 English feet, and it is not the highest volcano, though the most frequent in eruptions. Orsefa Jokull is the loftiest of the volcanic chain, having a height of 6,426 feet.
—The last notable application of papier mache was in the manufacture of a revolving dome for the astronomical observatory of the Polytechnic Institute, Troy. It only weighs a ton and three-quarters, and can be revolved without the assistance of any apparatus. The paper is on a light framing of wood, and is fully as hard and rigid. The dome has an internal diameter of twenty-nine feet, and if constructed in the usual manner, would have weighed five or six tons, and required powerful machinery to move it.
—A singular experiment in agricultural methods has lately been tried in France. A savant took two tobacco plants, each weighing the same and being in an equally healthy condition, and placed them side by side in a locality favorable to their growth. One was supplied with an electric conductor, and the other left in its normal state. In four months the plant under the influence of electricity attained a height of three feet five inches, and weighed about 44,000 grains; the other measured two feet four
inefces, and weighed about 22,000 grains, about one half. Fertilization by electricity is certainly a new and startling notion.
—The removal of the Jesuits from the Observatory of the Boman College—a removal effected in the most arbitrary manner—has produced the results that might have been anticipated. The calculations of time are all going wrong. The Fanfulla in a recent issue although inimical to the Jesuits, admitted the sorrowful state of the case in the following terms—“The descent of the ball on the Aa-tronomical Observatory of the Roman College, which should indicate with the greatest exactitude the hour of midday (mean time), and should serve for the regulation of chronometers, for some time past has occurred with such irregularity that it really becomes useless for this purpose. It was well worth the trouble of sending away Father Ferrari in the mode in which he was sent away to obtain this fine result” The reproduction of this note in a number of journals has awakened Signor Tacchini, the new director, to the necessity of regarding more keenly the accuracy of his calculations. He writes to the Fanfuda to remove the blame from his own shoulders. He accuses the artilleryman of the Castle of S. Angelo of not firing the time-gun at the proper moment, forgetting that it is the descent of the ball which gives the signal to the artilleryman. He also desires a telegraphic communication between the Observatory and the Castle of S. Angelo, so that the descent of the ball at the former may be contemporaneous with the firing of the gun at the latter. The other day the difference between the true time and the fall of the ball of the Observatory under Tacchini’s direction was 40 seconds.—Rom. Gor. Catholic Telegraph.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Catholic World for October opens with “Pearl,” which is concluded in this number. “ Maguelone ” is a readable Provencal sketch, and “Ireland a Hundred Years Ago” is well calculated to dissipate at least one of the many prejudices that have been created by falsified history in regard to that country. The second and concluding part of “The Major’s Manoeuvre”—a racy story—winds up happily, as might have been expected. Among the other papers of the number—exclusive of the Encyclical of our Holy Father the Pope, to which a special importance attaches—the best are: “ Our Lady of Ostra Brama,” one of the many beautiful incidents in which the intercession of our Blessed Lady works wonders in favor of those who in the hour of need invoke the benign Mother of our Lord; “Catholic Emancipation and its Results” which pays a fitting tribute to the memory of one who has done more for Ireland than all the hot-headed scribblers and talkers who attempt to throw odium on his memory; and “The Need of a New Dunciad,” a capital article. The department of “Current Events” in this number is more than usually interesting.
—The Western Citizen,, published at Indianapolis, Ind., comes to us this week in an enlarged form and replete with State and diocesan news. The paper shows material improvement. Mr. Clarke, of the Columbian, last week fired a shot in the direction of the editor of the Citizen, but if he would battle for his rights our Indianapolis friend will not be the only target for his sharp-shooting. It is strange to see such a penchant for literary cribbing among editors, who of all others should know what an effort it requires to write something that is worth reading, and that if an article -or piece of any considerable length is worth reprinting, it is but just to give credit where it is due. As if the credit at the head ot an article, or at the end of a shorter piece, detracted from its merit! It seems to us that credited pieces reflect a double honor—one for strict honesty, the other for discernment—provided there be not too many of them, so as to exclude matter that should be worked up by each particular paper. For our part, we take special pleasure in scanning the Catholic Standard's chat with its exchanges, and the Standard is one of the best of our Catholic family papers, having excellent correspondence and abundance of good editorial matter.
56
THE NOTRE DAME.. SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, September 37, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid..
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
• Notre Dame, Indiana.
Litera Seripta Manet.
The general spirit of zeal manifested by all connected •with pur institution in its re-opening, presents the most encouraging prospects of success. Everyone seems to have imbibed the same spirit of prompt and energetic action that impelled our superiors in the erection of the new college building, and all seem desirous and determined to take hold of the work in each particular branch and department, and accomplish it in the same style in which the building has been presented to us, viz., upon an improved plan, so that we may have, if not entirely new, at least an improved College in all its parts and points. Now the Scholastic claims an important part in this grand task, and would join the labor with the same zealous spirit and show the same improvement in its work.
But in order that this may be accomplished, we must have some assistance. All hands must join, and take an interest in seeing our college send forth a journal that will will be deserving of respect, an honor' to its name. At time all must stand ready to lend the helping hand, for upon this depends the question of success. We realize the fact that it is to the kind assistance of our many friends we owe our past success, and far, from complaining, we feel grateful to them for it. But improvement is the motto now, and we only aim by our words to keep up the -spirit of the time. To past contributors, an invitation to continue their favors would be entirely unnecessary. They know full well that all their contributions will be appreciated and well attended to, but to all that have so far never engaged in writing for the Scholastic, and especially to all the new students, we take this occasion of extending a hearty invitation to join in our work, and, while we shall feel thankful to you for all efforts in our behalf, we really believe that the favor will be fully returned and your labors amply rewarded by the great benefit you will receive
by its practice. For, “ practice makes perfect” in this as in all other accomplishments, and a complete knowledge of all the rules of rhetoric combined, would oe entirely useless in acquiring a good style unless accompanied by occasional practice in composing and writing. This should be done, too, with perseverance and industry. A refusal of one essay sent in should by no means prove a discouragement to the student, but, on the contrary, an incentive to try again and excel his first attempt; by this means he will in time succeed, and finally become a writer whose articles will be anxiously expected.
Let all the students, then, accept of our invitation and utilize the benefits to be derived from it. Our box will be placedin the hall, next to the Seniors’ study-hall door, by the first of the week, and all contributions placed in it will receive our prompt attention. Two rules, however, must be remembered by all who desire their contributions published, viz., to write only on one side of the paper, and to give the name of the writer. This rule will be broken for no reason. Tiie name will not be published, nor mentioned to anyone unless desired, but the name of the writer of even the smallest item must be known to us, or otherwise it will be thrown into the waste-basket.
In conclusion, we should like to suggest that, in accordance with the general spirit so far shown in reorganizing the College societies, no time be lost in bringing together the members of the Academia, a society which, for the time it has been established, leaves a record second to none. The members of the old Academia have everything to remember the organization by, in years to come. The time they have devoted to furthering its ends, which after all were their individual advancement, has been productive of the best results and leaves a record in the bound volumes of the Scholastic of which they may justly feel proud. We would therefore advise such young men of talent as have lately joined us, to follow their example, remembering that the spoken word may perish but the written word remains.
K
9
- 4
-I
First Annual Report of the Diocesan School Board.
[The following communication from a zealous and hardworking parish priest of this diocese is well worth the perusal of all interested in the welfare of the parochial schools—and who should not be? If such neglect as he speaks of happen in a diocese far better supplied with schools, in proportion to the Catholic population, than most of the dioceses of the United States, and pass unnoticed until the organization of the School Board, what might-not a Diocesan Board do in other places? The wants known, the next thing is to supply them—a matter in which school boards can often render service not otherwise available.]
Editor “Notre Dame ScholasticThe first Annual Report of the Diocesan School Board of the Fort Wayne diocese has just made its appearance. It is, without doubt, an important document, even apart from any intrinsic merit that it may possess, inasmuch as it represents a new departure in a very important matter, and one from which, if we mistake not, the greatest good is likely to accrue. Therefore we hail its advent with pleasure.
The parochial schools are, beyond a doubt, the bulwarks of the faith. In them the great mass of the people
■» I
(I il
A ■
1 I
-/|
I
-s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	57
4
are formed for their life work, therefore it is of the utmost importance that they he conducted upon the most approved principles, both as regards efficiency and economy, and this step of a Diocesan School Board is one in the right direction. Hitherto, the best has been done that time and circumstances permitted parish priests to do; but circumstances have become so altered that a wider scope is needed, and, also, a more systematic method, in order to give the schools all possible efficiency.
To the young diocese of Fort Wayne (scarcely twenty years established) belongs the honor of taking the initiative by organizing a Diocesan School Board, and thus beginning the work of placing the parochial schools upon a solid foundation. The reports before us of the different schools furnish much interesting information on various matters, and from the details here given, the Rt. Rev. Bishop and the rectors of the several parishes can learn a great deal that might not otherwise reach them, but with which it were well they should he acquainted. For instance, what shall we say of the place with from 100 to 180 children having no school; nay more, only one half hour of Catechism taught each Sunday! What wonder if the children thus neglected should, when a little older, perhaps only a few years after their Confirmation, desert the Faith and fall into heresy, or worse! Take fifty-two half hours, making only twenty-six hours all the year round, devoted to the most important affair that could engage the attention of man, and what wonder is it that such children should, through ignorance, go to swell the number of fallen-off Catholics who curse the land with their presence! And who is to blame ? Must we not involuntarily exclaim: “ Omnis per-ditio ex Israel!” Who will answer for the loss of the immortal souls thus gone to- ruin ? Here, then, is room, ample room, for improvement and true reformation in capite et membris.
Another important item we can draw from the reports, is that there are many places (25) with no Catholic school. Of this I will not now speak, but wait further action of the respective authorities, who no doubt can give us better reasons why there are no schools than we can infer from the neccessarily limited remarks in the report.
Again, from many places (12) no report whatever has been sent in. The School Board is certainly right in expecting, and I know our Rt. Rev. Bishop will insist on it, that the delinquents report the next time.
If an annual financial report is expected by the Bishop from each congregation of the diocese, how much more should not this of the schools be insisted upon, inasmuch as on it depends the salvation or perdition of immortal souls! This is certainly a matter of vital import, not one which might be put on the last page of a report, or shoved into the background; it should have the first place in all reports. Upon the school depends the welfare of those who are to take our place on the arena of life, and wo to us if through our neglect they prove unfit for the work appointed them by God. To this end, a true and sound education is necessary, is exacted at our hands, and for it we—pastor and congregation, fathers and mothers, rich and poor, young and old—will be held responsible in our measure. All have a duty to fulfil in this regard. None are exempt—none will be exempted in the final reckoning. The school is the important question nowadays, and we see that in Europe the great battle is for the right to hold and govern the school. On this, however, more at another time.
For the present I will dose, but I intend in a future communication to call attention to other items in the reports.
In closing this article, I cannot forbear expressing my satisfaction that the articles oh the necessity of a Diocesan School Board, published in the Scholastic a year or so ago, have at last resulted in some good. Now let us hope and pray this work, so well begun, will be bravely and perseveringly continued until our parochial schools are what they should be.	M.
The Singing in Church.
It is about time now that the students turned their attention to the matter of singing on Sundays and holydays. Those who were here in former years know the fine effect produced by the congregational singing on Sundays, and especially during the month of May, when Seniors, Juniors, and even the Minims joined in it; and, with a little effort on the part of all, a similar or even better effect can be produced now. As it is, the singing is comparatively poor, but this is generally the case at the beginning of a scholastic year. As previously announced, books for Mass and Vespers can be had at the students’ office by depositing the publishers’ price, which will be refunded when the books are returned in good order. This course has been deemed necessary owing to the manner in which books were defaced or carelessly lost in former years.
All the Catholic students should join in the singing— nay more, they should take a special pleasure in doing so, for they have thus the privilege of joining the heavenly choirs in the canticles of joy sung before the throne of God. Who, then, that has a good voice should not take pleasure in glorifying God with it, who gave him this and all the other favors that he enjoys. Let one and all, both inside and outside the sanctuary, unite in the grand chorus of praise and prayer.
As for the students who have good voices but do not understand music, they should attend the classes at which singing is taught. By doing so they will spend their time both pleasurably and profitably. We hope a holy emulation will be felt in this matter, and that each one will spur on his neighbors both by word and example, and especially the latter. “ Non mortui lauddbunt Te, Domine, negue omnes gui descendunt in infernum. Sed nos gui vivimus, benedicimus Domino, ex hoc nunc, et usque in scectdum.— The dead shall not praise Thee, 0 Lord: neither all they that go down into hell. But we who live, bless the Lord : from this time forth and forever.”
Personal.
—Lewis Roth (Commercial), ’68, resides in Cincinnati.
—Wm. J. Onahan, LL. D., ’77, is secretary of the Irish Colonization Board.
—M. 8. Kelly, ’74, is book-keeper of the Hamilton Bank of Fort Wayne, Ind.
—Father Stoffel went to South Bend Sunday to assist the parish priest of St. Patrick’s.
—D. A. Clarke, ’70, is still the editor of the Catholic Columbian, one of the very best of our religious journals.
—Joseph Beegan, ’76, is reading law with Myer L. Graff, Esq., at-Fort Wayne. He wiU soon be admitted to the bar.
—John Baker and John Arentz, (Commercial) '79, are
L
58	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
assisting their fathers, who are lumber merchants at Fort Wayne, Ind.
—John A. Arentz, ’74, and Jas. C. Peltier, ’59, are both merchants of the city of Fort Wayne. The first in the grocery, the latter in the undertaking business.
—W. A. Walker ’68, makes an energetic sheriff of Reno, Neb. Will, when here, was one of six who conducted a manuscript journal known as the Two-Penny Ga-
—Rev. M. M. Hallinan, D. D., late assistant at St. Mary’s Church, Lafayette, paid us a visit during the past week. All his old friends and pupils of former years were glad to see him looking so well.
—Hon. Augustus C. Dodge, LL. D., has the thanks of the Lemonnier Library Association for sets of the Congressional Globe from the beginning of the 30th to the end of the 35th Congress, and vols. of the 25th and 27th Congresses.
—The Rev. Alfred Perkins, of South Bend, was out yesterday to say good-bye to his friends at the College. He expects to leave on Wednesday for Oregon. We regret Mr. Perkins’ departure very much. He is a most estimable gentleman. No wonder the people of South Bend have become so much attached to him.
—F. E. Bodemann, ’69, after his departure from Notre Dame was clinical assistant in two .London (Eng.) hospitals, spent three years in a medical and surgical institute in France, was nine months surgeon in the Servian army in the Servo-Turkish war, with the rank of captain, and at the conclusion of the war was honorably discharged, with a complimentary promotion, and decorated with the Order of Takova. He was also clinical assistant in surgery in Michigan University, where he has taken the degree of pharmaceutical chemist and M. D. He now resides at Ann Arbor, Mich.
Local Items.
—How do you like the gas ?
—Strive to excel in your classes.
—The boat crews are in excellent trim.
—Fine prairie chickens on the St. Joseph Farm.
—Seven buildings are now in course of erection here.
—There is room for improvement—ample room—in the church singing this year.
—Father Stoffel teaches three Greek classes, one Latin class, and a German class.
—Chickens and turkeys are counting the days to Oct. 13th. Executions ahead.
—Father Condon expresses himself well pleased with the discipline of the house.
—Thanks to kind friends, the Lemonnier Library numbers two thousand volumes.
—The Professor of Philosophy is hard at work on a translation from the French.
—Let us remember that “ we are all created solely for what we cannot here possess.”
—The sermon last Sunday on the Seven Dolors of the Blessed Virgin was an admirable one.
—The Juniors, according to all reports, are the liveliest crowd of boys that have been at Notre Dame for years.
—Some of our friends never send the Scholastic to their parents except when their names figure on the Roll of Honor.
—“Old Reliable” still enjoys the dolce far niente of vacation life. No one seems desirous of cultivating his acquaintance.
—We regret very much to say that there is no improvement in the condition of Father Lilly, who has now been ill several months.
—The students’ office has been moved to the spacious room north of the rotunda, facing the principal entrance to the main building.
J —Father Stoffel has received a new addition to his Gov
ernment reports, for which he thanks Senator McDonald and the Congressional representative from this district.
—Mr. Barrett, who has been managing the steam-fitting for the Infirmary building and Minims’ Hall, finished up on last Tuesday by connecting with the boiler-house.
—Very Rev. Father Granger has started an ecclesiastical library for the Professed House. He lately received a valuable collection of books from a clerical friend in Baltimore.
—We are glad to see that many of the new students are following the time-honored custom of lifting their hats in honor of the Blessed Sacrament whenever they pass the church.
—The Monthly Bulletins will be made out for the first time on Wednesday next. The Faculty will meet in the Commercial room at 8 a. m. sharp, and all are requested to be punctual in attendance.
—The Diplomas awarded after the fire were signed last week, and are now ready. Absentees will please write for them; but pupils present, to whom they were awarded, will receive them in public in the near future.
—The large main pipe supplying the steam-heating apparatus in the College took the place of the temporary one on Thursday last. Judging from its size—6 inches in diameter—there need be no lack of steam hereafter.
—There is a rumor that a literary society is soon to be organized among the students of the different German classes. The idea is one of which every one must heartily approve, and we hope soon to see it carried into execution.
—To-morrow, the Missa Parvuiorum, page 38 of the Kyriale, will be sung. Vespers will be of the Dedication of St. Michael’s the Archangel, page 196 of the Vesperal. The Ifagnificai will be found at page 226; the Salve Regina at page 237.
—All items for these columns should be given to the local editor before Thursday morning of each week, otherwise they will not appear in the Scholastic until the week following. Matter for the literary editor should be handed in on Monday or Tuesday.
—The second regular meeting of the Thespian Association was held Sunday night. Mr. J. B. McGrath, of New York, was elected a member. After an instructive discourse by the President, Mr. Hagan favored the Society by reading selections from standard authors.
—The readers of this week, in the Juniors, have not as powerful lungs as their predecessors of last week. Gentlemen, pitch your voice a little higher; read slowly, enunciate clearly, and then perhaps we may be able to catch a word or two about the subject-matter of the reading.
—Rev. Father Stoffel, assisted by Mr. J. B. McGrath, has > succeeded in manufacturing a library-table, which he proudly speaks of and points to as a masterpiece of ingenuity and skill. This opinion, however, is as yet not shared by a very large number of persons, and is gaining adherents but slowly.
—The 22d regular meeting of the Sorin Literary Association was held Saturday evening, Sept. 20th. Masters Garrity, G. Woodson, T. Van Mourick and W. Coolbaugh delivered declamations. Masters H. Snee and J. Mattes entertained the Society with comic songs.. The Society is in a flourishing condition.
—On the evening of Saturday, Sept. 20th, on descending to the solid, comforts of me refectory, we were all delighted with the effulgence which burst upon us through the pipes of the newly erected establishment for gas manufacture. No more sore eyes! Farewell, base oleaginous liquid! inflammable air supplies thy place.
—The 2d meeting of the Columbian Literary Club was held Tuesday night. Essays were read by Messrs. P. Larkin, R. Campbell and F. Bloom. Mr. T. Campbell delivered a good declamation, after which several of the members took part in an extempore debate. Messrs. Conlan and Noonan were elected members.
—Competitions will be held in all the classes of the Preparatory Department during the coming week. All ' should do their best to start out with a good record; As an incentive to the students to strive hard for good places,
-1 »-
X’’
TH^E NO^RE DAME SCHOLASTrC.	59
it need only be said that the monthly competitions decide the prizes at the end of the year. •
V' —Rev. Father Louage has the grateful acknowledg-v ments of the Lemonnier Library Association for the books ’ in the accompanying list. Life of Sheridan, Thos. Moore, 2 vols.; Manual of Ancient History, Thalheimer; Miss Gilbert’s Career, Holland; Lorenzo Benoni; Le Tour du Monde, 3 vols., profusely illustrated.
—We are glad to notice the zest with which the students of the different departments enter into the sports of the ' season. Football, handball and baseball count a greater . number of more devoted patrons than ever before. It •A	speaks well for the energy of a department when a game of
football began on Sunday is finished only on Wednesday afternoon.
—Class-notes were read on Thursday and Friday for the -- first time during the present session. The notes were in general very satisfactory, and we are confident that the Monthly Bulletins will have pleasing news to convey home. So long as eight students out of nine continue to . have excellent notes for discipline, we need have no fear for the classes.
• -	—Those of our readers who visit South Bend, in passing
to or from the College, will find choice brands of cigars {	and smokers’ articles generally at Mish’s, Odd-Fellows’
?	Block. Don’t forget the place; the Scholastic thinks one
; good turn deserves another, and as Mr. Mish’s establishment is honored by a place in our advertising columns we ? hope our friends will patronize him.
/	—On Sunday, September 21st, the Festival of the Seven
;	Dolors, the students' Mass was sung by Very Rev. Father
‘ Granger, assisted by Rev. Father Kelly as deacon and - Rev. T. D. Collins as subdeacon. Rev. Father L’Etour-neau was celebrant at the parish Mass, Rev. Father Gleeson deacon, and Rev. T. D. Collins subdeacon. The sermon at both Masses was preached by Rev. T. E. Walsh.
‘	—The Philodemic Debating Society held its first regular
meeting Tuesday evening, September 23d, Rev. Father Walsh, the President, in the chair. The following officers were chosen for this session: Vice-President, A. J. Burger, _ Sr.; Recording Secretary, R. Russell; Treasurer, W. Mc-r Gorrisk; Censors, J. P. Kinney, and W. H. Arnold. Messrs P. J. Hagan and J. B. Berteling were unanimously ’ elected to membership.
!	—The regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean
' Association was held Sept. 23d. The various reports having been heard, Masters M. J. Burns, J. A. Gibbons and F. Quinn read essays. Declamations were delivered by W. J. McCarthy, F. Phillips, W. Rietz, A. Mergentheim, Elmer . Otis and G. L. Morgan. Public readers of this week are W. J McCarthy, F. Quinn, C. Tinley, E. Otis, A. Mergentheim, E. Orrick, and A. J. Burger.
—The musical faculty have for the present taken up quarters on the third floor of the College. Quite a number of pupils have announced their intention to take lessons in the art divine, and the classes are now in good working order. The musicians will perhaps have to put up with 1 some slight inconveniences in their temporary quarters, - but let them wait with patience for a short time and the new Music Hall will more than repay them.
^The reorganization of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary took place Sunday evening, Sept. 21st. The following officers were elected: Director, Very Rev. A. Granger; President, Rev. T. E. Walsh; 1st Vice-President, M. J. Burns; 2d Vice-President, J. A. Gibbons; Rec. Secretary, W. J. McCarthy ;• Cor. Secretary, A. S. Rock; Treasurer, G. A. Orr; 1st Censor, A. Caren; 2d Censor, F. Grever; Sergeant-at-arms, F. Cl Scheid; Standard-bearer, R. J. Semmes. •
•	—In his address to the students after the fire on the
. memorable 23d of April, Very Rev. President Corby, after ) announcing that classes had to be suspended for want of necessary room, stated that he expected all the old students to report at Notre Dame the 1st of the following Sept., J and bring others with them, promising to have ready for ; them a new building and better accommodations than be> fore. Many, we know, departed with misgivings about the / matter, but the 2d of September, when classes were re
sumed as usual, showed them that Father Corby was as good as his word.
—The'St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society, whose object is the study of elocution, English composition and debate, held its first meeting September the 9th, to reorganize. The following are the officers for this session, confirmed at the second meeting, held September the 16th: Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Director; Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Gen. Critic; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M., Dramatic Reader; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Moderator; Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., Musical Director; Bro. Leander, Promoter; 1st Vice-President, E. Castanedo; 2d Vice-President, M. A. Vedder; A. Coghlin, Rec. Secretary; G. V. Cable, Cor. Secretary; J. A. Seeger, Treasurer; J. W. Devitt, Librarian; E. Croarkin, 1st Censor; F. Becker, 2d Censor; H. G. Guynn, Sergeant-at-arms; H. Devitt, Marshal; J. Gordon and 0. Farrelly, Monitors; J. A. Larkin, Prompter.
—From Mr. Chas. H. Rockwell, the General Passenger and Ticket Agent of the Indianapolis, Peru and Chicago Railway Co., we learn that half-fare rates will be given from all stations on the line of the I. P. & C. Co. to the Indiana State Fair at Indianapolis, which opens Sept. 29th and closes October 4th. The half-fare tickets are good on all regular trains. Three passenger trains run daily from Laporte, and two from Michigan City. Fare for round trip from Laporte and Michigan City $4.25, with a proportionate reduction at intermediate points. Trains leave Laporte daily at 4.05 and 10.20 a. m.; 8.55 p. m. and Mich. City at 9.35 a. m., and 8.05 p. m., reaching Indianapolis at 11 a. m., 5.25 p. m., and 4 a. m. respectively. The Indianapolis, Peru and Chicago Co. deserve great credit for making the above handsome reduction and increasing the accommodations for those visiting the Fair.
—The Lemonnier Library Association return thanks to the following gentlemen for donations: To Luke Evers, of Sing Sing, N. Y., for Plutarch’s Lives and Cobbett’s History of the Reformation; to M. S. Foote, Esq., Burlington, Iowa, for Life and Speeches of Henry Clay, 2 vols.; Don Quixote, Illustrated; Josephus, 2 vols.; Thucydides’ History of the Peloponnesian War; Poetical Works of Coleridge, Shelley and Keats; Vanity Fair; Recollections of a Lifetime, by S. E. Goodrich, 2 vols.; Boat Life in Egypt and Nubia, Wm. C. Prime; Tent Life in the Holy Land, Prime; Knickerbocker; Burns’s Poetical Works, and Jefferson’s Manual of Parliamentary Practice; to Rev. Father Gunn, of Burlington, for The Peoples’ Library; Ingersoll’s Mistakes; Irish Settlers in America; Robert’s Wife, Mary Lee; Zoological Science, or Nature in Living Forms; Spiritual Conferences; Strayed from the Fold; Fabiola; Life of St. Dominic; Catholic Crusoe; to M. M. Foote, of Burlington, for Hogarth’s Works; Centennial History of the U. 8.; Enoch Arden; Rise and Fall of the Mustache, Burdette; Elbow Room, Max Adeler; Dick Rodney, or Adventures of an Eton Boy; to Father Kinsella, of Burlington, for Cathechismus aiParochios ex Decreto Concilii Tredentini Editus, Paris 1661, and three other volumes, two hundred years old: to R. W. Washburne, of London, England, for Industry and Laziness, A Tale by Franz Hoffman; Allan Akbar, or God is Great; to J. Haemers, Lyons, France, Ferguson’s Rome; Gibbon’s Rome, 6 vols.; to Master G. Edwards, Toledo, The Complete Writings of George Washington, 12 vols.
—The magnificent telescope donated to the University by his late Imperial Majesty Napoleon III was a sufferer, to some extent at least, by the fire; not so much, indeed, by being burned as by being “saved,” which unnecessary process jarred it slightly to the manifest injury of its nervous system. By the kind care of Brother Wilfred, however, it was braced up with the desired tonics, and the gentlemen of the astronomy class rallied round it for the first time on the evening of Sept. 21st in great hopes of seeing the “purple spot on Jupiter’’which our scientific cotemporaries are going wild over. Jupiter, however, did not think fit to present his spotty side to their earnest gaze. His belts were a trifle darker than usual, particularly the northern one, and three of his satellites were visible, two unusually near together, and out of the usual plane of the ecliptic. Those who keep themselves posted in celestial movements will decide at once that the time was 8 p. m.
60
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The class had already interviewed the moon, and determined that what she didn’t know about extinct volcanoes was not worth knowing. She was “ afflicted ” by the infamous constellation Scorpio, however, and looked red and worried. After paying their respects to Jupiter, the class turned their attention to his sire, jolly Saturn, the planet that bears the ring, unjustly stigmatized by the astrologers of the Middle Ages, but revered by the ancients as the presiding genius of the age of gold. Saturn was sulky, owing to the clouds which girt the horizon, but Mr. Bloom fetched him, amid the cheers of his delighted fellow-students. The class decided not to sit up for Mars, as he would rise behind the old sycamore tree that used to shade Bro. Peter’s original Notre Dame Post Office, and goodness knows when he would emerge from leafy seclusion.
—The “ Blues ” and “ Reds ” of the Junior Department played on the 22d inst. one of the most stubbornly contested games of football that we have ever witnessed. The game was for a barrel of sweet cider, and was witnessed by the students of the Senior Department, some forty or fifty workmen, and several members of the Faculty. Frank Grever, a Cincinnati boy, captained the Reds, and Charlie Rietz, a Chicago boy, did like service for the Blues. Both used the same tactics, and it was hard for a looker-on to say which handled his men to the best advantage. As for the individual players, they proved to be about equal in strength, as will be seen by the result of the game. At p. m. the members of both clubs donned their respective colors and soon appeared on the Campus in their gayest attire. After a few preliminary remarks by the umpire, the ball was started by the captain of the Reds, kicking it in the direction of left field, but it was neatly stopped by a member of the Blues, sending it in the opposite direction; the struggle continued for fifty minutes, when it was kicked within the goal by a member of the Reds. First bout claimed and allowed for the Reds. After a breathing spell of ten minutes the ball was again tossed into the air; it swerved to and fro for twenty minutes, and then was kicked within the goal of the Blues. The excitement was at fever heat when the third and deciding bout was commenced. It took one hour and forty minutes to decide it, and a cheer went up from the victorious Reds. In regard to individual players, we noticed that New Orleans was well represented by Messrs. Ie Bourgeois and Payro; Cincinnati, by Messrs. Hellebusch, Grever and Rheinboldt; Chicago, by W. and C. Rietz, C. O’Connor and S. Dering; Lafayette, J. and R. McCarthy; Galveston, J. Brown and J. Schoby; Burlington, A. J. Burger; Grand Rapids, M. J. Burns; Wheeling, J. Larkin Caton; Mississippi, E. Orrick and R. J. Semmes; Salt Lake City, Utah, P. O’Neill; Evansville, Ind., H. Rose; Dubuque, J. Seeger; Fort Lincoln, Dakota, Elmer A. Otis; Steubenville, Ohio, G. Orr; Covington, Ky., C. A. Tinley.
Boll.of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOE DEPAETMENT.
A J. Burger, J. B. Berteling, W. Boulger, T. J. Byrnes, F. Bell, J. P. Brice, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, B. J. Claggett, B. Casey, J. Casey, Geo. Clarke, F. Clarke, T. B. Campbell, R. S. Campbell, W. E. Carpenter, D. Donohue, Geo. Donnelly, H. Deehan, L. Dimick, L. H. Duginger, H. B. Dulaney, J. Delaney, J. Carter, M. English, M. B. Falvey, J. P. Hagan, J. Halloran, F. Humbert, T. Hindeling, D. Harrington, J. H. Jorden, R. Johnson, J. Dempsey, J. P. Kinney, J. R. Kelly, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, J. Keena, A A Lent, P. B. Larkin, J. B. McGrath, W. B. MeGorrisk, Ed. MeGorrisk, J. J. McErlain, J. R. Marlette, P. F. Maguire, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, P. McCormick, E. Molitor, C. F. Mueller, M.jMaloney,^J. Malone, J. Norfleet, J. Noonan, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, Geo. Pike, R H. Russel], J. Ryan, Geo. Sugg, S. T. Spalding, R. D. Stewart, T. S. Summers, P. F. Shea, J. Solon, L. Smith, W. Schofield, S. P. Terry, P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, C. B. Van Dusen, F. X. Wall, C. Whalen, W. Wilson, G. Wittwer, Ed. Gooley, A. F. Zahm, T. Zeien, C. Zarley, W. Megee.
JUNIOB DEPAETMENT.
A J. Buerger, J. M. Boose, C. J. Brinkman, J. F. Brown, A
A. Burmeister, A A. Bodine, M. J. Burns, E. Croarkin, G. C. Castanedo, J. V. Cabel, F. L. Carter, A. A Caren, A. M. Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, Lou Cole, H. P. Dunn, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, Fred Glade, A. J. Hintze, J. A. Hermann, J. T. Homan, A. F. Hellebusch, F. A Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, L. R. Le Bourgeois, A. B. Mergentheim, F. McPhillips, C. McDermott, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, E. C. Orrick, E. A. Otis, A. G. Payro, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, F. A Quinn, A. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, W. Rietz, J.SRuppe, P. H.Rasche, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, C. A Tinley, C. H. Theile, M. A Vedder, 8. T. Dering, A. S. Manning, A’ S. Rock, E.H. Gaines, J. B. Wilder, W. T. Weny, T. F. Devitt, T. D. Dever, S. E. Meredith, F. R. Johnson, G. A Orr, H. 3. Rose, C. F. Rose.
Omitted last week through mistake, G. Orr, C. and H. Rose.
MINIM DEPAETMENT.
D. W. Taylor, J. S. Courtney, J. N. Courtney, L. J. Young, C. J. Young, J. S. Garrity, F. J. Garrity, G.E. Tourtilotte, W. J. Coolbaugh, G. Van Mourick, A Van Mourick, L. J. Spalding, C. J. Droste, J. Chaves, H. A. Kitz, C. L. Garrick, F. J. Leach, Guy Woodson, E. N. O’Donnell, A. J. Kelly, H. C. Snee, E. F. Howard,'J. Bannister, C. Welty, W. Hanavin, F. Farrelly, C. O’Mally, A. Schmiiekle, J. H. Dwenger, J. J. Johnson.
r
_ <

—Hammock swings are to be put up for the use of the Juniors.
—Mental Philosophy engages the attention of the graduates at present.
—St. Mary’s is celebrated the world over for her beautiful autumn leaves.
—There is no small amount of “ logic” this week in the letters of the First Seniors.
—The theoretical classes in the Conservatory of Music were organized on Saturday.
—Miss Bridget O’Neill, graduate of ’71, accompanied her sister to the Academy on the 23d.
—That “time-honored” fabric, the Exhibition Hall, is melting away. It is to be replaced by one of brick.
—The tidy little misses who wear pink in the summer time are making very pretty buff and pink veil-cases.
—The Minims have delightful surprise entertainments; and well they may, for they have many fine toys.
—The maple trees are showing some rubies in their emerald crowns already. What will they be in October ?
—It is said that the competitors for the gold medal to be awarded for excellence in Christian Doctrine are numerous.
—By mistake the name of Miss Rebecca Neteler was left out of the honorable mention in the Academic report of last week.
—On Sunday, the Feast of the Compassion of the Blessed Virgin, Rev. Father Saulnier preached on the “ Sorrows of Mary.”
—The plain wooden panels now used in the Studio are bringing out some fine. work. One of grape clusters is admirable. More of this in future.
—Mrs. Beilligmann has just brought her grand-daughter, little Adelaide Geiser, whose musical talents evoked such praise at the late concert in Chicago.
—The wooden picnic plates in St. Luke’s Studio are exceedingly pretty. They are quite the fashion. The young artists are to be complimented on their success.
—A Centennial graduate addressed a friend at St. Mary’s not long ago. The delicacy of conscience cultivated in Dakota -is wonderful, as the document cited amply proves.
—The St. Agnes Literary Society recently held a meeting for the election of officers. Approbation of the choice was manifested by clapping of hands and like demonstrations.
2
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
61

—The venerable figure of St. Mary’s constant friend, Rev. Father Baroux, looks quite at home before the altar of Loretto. The smallest of the Minims is the Rev. Father’s niece.
—The best letters are those which do not reveal the efforts of the writers to make them long. Good letters never close with the declaration that the writer “ has no fnore to say at present.”
—The Juniors’ flower-plot has been stripped of its glory, “and roses, geraniums, heliotropes, tube-roses, fuschias, ver--benas, etc., now decorate their study.-hall and the western Lourdes class-room.	.
—Visitors admire the statue of St. Joseph in St. Luke’s Studio. It is from a design by the young American sculptor, Wm. Starr. Mr. Starr is a nephew of the celebrated writer and artist, Miss Eliza Allen Starr.
—The medal for Domestic Economy is the “ bright particular star ” of commencement day in the estimation of a large number. The Seniors of ’79-’8O mean to be good house-keepers, as well as good readers and writers.
—Mr. Smith, of the firm of Wells, Smith & Macon, Denver, Colorado, placed his daughter at the Academy on the 21st. The daughters of Judge Wells are glad to welcome recruits from their distant place of residence. Mr. Smith is a Georgetown graduate.
—St. Catharine’s Literary Society,—Sister M. della Puri-ficazione, Directress—held its annual election on Wednesday. Miss Annie McGrath was elected President; Miss Angela Dillon, Vice-President; Miss Catharine Claffey, Secretary; Louisa Neu, Treasurer.
—The visit of Mrs. Gavin, of Lafayette, is a notable feature of the last week. This lady is a prominent and efficient friend of all religious institutions. She has contributed largely, towards the support of the Orphan Asylums at Renssalaer and Lafayette.
—St. Angela’s Literary Society—Sister M. Ignatia, Directress ; Sister M. Teresa, Assistant—reorganized on Wednesday. The new officers are: Miss Teresa Zahm, President; Miss Daisy Caliinan, Vice-President; Miss Mary Campbell, Secretary; and Miss Sallie Purdy, Treasurer.
—The first regular session of St. Agnes’s Literary Society-Sister M. Eutropia Directress—took place Wednesday. Votes were taken, and the following are the elections: President, Grace Taylor; Vice President, Annie Orr; Secretary,Catharine Campbell; Treasurer, Annie Hackett; Librarian, Annie Leydon.
—The parterre, known as the Rosary Circle, bears no idle or romantic title. It is what it purports to be. Trinity Arbor, which marks the centre, corresponds to the Crucifix usually attached to the rosary. The circle contains three grand divisions, answering to the three chaplets composing the Rosary, and they are subdivided into five parts, corresponding to the decades. The Fifteen Mysteries are consequently represented.
—The Society of the Children of Mary met on Sunday, at 10 o’clock p. m., in the Confraternity room to organize for the scholastic year. The election resulted as follows: Miss Nellie McGrath, President; Miss Rebecca Ewing, Vice-President; Miss Teresa Killelea, Secretary; Miss Nellie Galen, Treasurer; Miss Teresa Zahm, Librarian; Miss M. Usselman, Sacristan. The Society is under the direction of Sister M. della Purificazione.
—Another graduate, Mrs. E. McMahon, of Jefferson, Wis., has placed her daughter in the institution. Mrs. McMahon was the valedictorian of I860. Years seem scarcely to have left their mark; and former friends, who received so much pleasure from her visit, find it difficult to realize that so much time has intervened since she was a pupil, as her daughter is now. May Providence deal as gently with the latter as with the former!
—The instruction to the Children of Mary in the Chapel of Loretto, by Very Rev. Father General, was a beautiful tribute to Our Lady of Compassion. He said that the birth of the Church was at the moment when mankind, in the person of St. John, was bequeathed to Mary, and Mary, by the testament of her Divine Son, was made the Mother of all Christians. The Church dates its origin at the foot of the Cross on the first Good Friday.
—St. Teresa’s Literary Society held its first meeting Wednesday, September 17th. The officers elected are as follows: Directress, Mother Mary Annunciata; President, Miss Rebecca Ewing; Vice-President, Miss Catharine Hackett; Secretary, Miss Clara Silverthorn; Treasurer, Miss Angela Ewing; Librarian, Miss Eleanor Keenan. Alter the election, the Misses Keenan and McGrath read some fine selections from the life of John Dryden.
—The visitors of the week were: Rev. L. Baroux, Glorieux, Mich; Mrs. E. McMahon, Jefferson, Wisconsin; Isaac Winston, U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey; Charles Scribner & Son, New York; C. I. Durand, Chicago; Mrs. George G. French, Milwaukee, Wis.; Mr. H. L. Lewis, Hyde Park, Ill.; Mrs. Beilligmann, Flora J. Stanfield, Miss Rosa P. George, South Bend; P. C. de Vol, Council Bluffs, Iowa; Mr. Smith, Denver, Col.; Mrs. J. A. Williams and Mrs. A. C. Mead, Sydney, Neb.; Miss Mary Lee, Limerick, Ireland; Mr. and Mrs. Meisner, Miss Ada Meisner, Mr. Walter Meisner, Mrs. W. D. Badger, Mrs. Heitzman, Charles and Mrs. T. Julius, Mrs. Eismer, Mr. and Mrs. Abbott, A. Wile, Niles,; Ritta Thomson, S. B. • Thomson, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs Matthew Cullen, Frisco, Utah; E. E. Bare, Sumption Prairie; Lucia Woods, Andover, Ohio; Mrs. Wm. Miller, South Bend; Mr. and Mrs. E. D. Manning, Cincinnati; Mrs. W. S. Lindsey, Detroit; Mrs. D. Ypsilanti, Mich.; Martha A. Watkins, Alice M. Watkins, Minnie Shanabrook, South Bend; John B. Berteling, Mrs. R. Reil”, Cincinnati, Ohio; Lizzie Fuson. Goshen, Ind; Mrs. Reinhardt, Mrs. S. B. Cavenor, Miss E. S. Herrick, Chicago; Eva B. Slough, South Bend; Mary P. Hatch, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mrs. E. Redick, Bourbon, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Reynolds, Hartford, Mich.; Mamie Giddings, South Bend; F Jefferay, Hillsdale, Mich.; Kate A. Augustine, New Carlisle, Ind.; Mrs. E. J. Leonard, Hamilton, Ohio; Martha Gerbrich, Niles; Alice and Ellen Richmond, Mankato, Minn; Mrs. I. T. Burch, M. I. Burch, Eaton, Ohio; G. H. Burch, MaryW. Burch, Jackson Clay, Nancy Clay, Delphine Merrill, L. L. Merrill, Lakeville, Ind.; Miss B. O’Neill, Peoria, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Paul Populorum, and Professor Duplessis, Chicago.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
honorably mentioned in the
Graduating Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Teresa Killelea, Ellen McGrath, Annie Woodin, Sarah Hambleton, Rebecca Ewing, Eleanor Keenan, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Maloney.
1st Senior Class—Misses Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Harriet Buck, Ellen Galen, Angela Ewing, Anna Cort-right, Henrietta Rosing, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cavenor.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Catharine Lloyd, Catharine Claffey, Angela Dillon, Annie McGrath, Jessie Herrick.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Mabel Roys, Elizabeth Bruiser, Bertha Julius, Caroline Banister, Clara De Lapp, Agnes Dillon, Caroline Gall.
2d Preparatory Class—Misses Catharine Campbell, Lillie Lancaster, Jennie Keys, (Elizabeth Caliinan, Teresa Zahm, Ethna O’Connor, Frances Murphy, Mabel Hamilton, Angelique Taylor, Margaret Piersol.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Lulu Hammond, Dora Homer, Minnie Salomon, Margaret Fishburne, Maud Lewis.
3d Prep. Class—Misses Emma Maxen, Catharine Edelen.
Junior Prep. Class—Misses Mary Dnncan, Cecilia Gibbons, Bertha Legnard, Mary Chirhart, Jane Barlow.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Clara Ginz, Martha Zimmerman.
FRENCH.
1st Class—English Translation—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Annie McGrath, Henrietta Rosing.
2d Class—Reading and Translation—Misses lorantha Semmes, Marie Dallas, Celestine Lemontey, Angela Ewing, Edith Alden, Mary Elizabeth Caliinan.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Cavenor, Annie Maloney, Louise Neu, Julia Butts, Annie Oortright, Mary Campbell, Mary Cox, Jennie Keys, Kate Lancaster.
3d Class—Misses Mary Feehan, Sabina Semmes, Annie Ryan, Ollie Williams, Nellie Kinzie, Sophie Papin, Clara de Lapp, Elise Dallas, Ellen Hackett, Johanna Baroux.
4th Class—Miss Jessie Herrick, Lillie Lancaster, Angelique Taylor, Grace Taylor, Katie Lloyd, Kathleen Wells, Maria Paquette, (Elise Papin, Maggie Semmes, Lulu Hammond, Angela Watson, Jennie Barlow.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Caroline Gall, Mary Usselman, Dora Horner, Minnie Salomon, Flora Reinhardt, Bertha Julius, Mary Bishoff,
62
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
2d Class—Catharine Claffey, Catharine Hackett, Minnie Loeber, Alice Farrell.
3d Class—Mary Fitzgerald, Catharine Ward, Agnes Joyce, Mabel Hamilton, Maud Casey.
4th Class—Agnes Dillon. Catharine Quinn, Elizabeth Bruser, Margaret Piersol, Catharine Campbell, Clara Stitzel, Cecilia Gibbons, Catharine Harrison, Minnie Carter, Mary Hutcheson, Mary Reutlinger, Mary Duncan, Mary Flemming, Mary Chir-hart, Elizabeth Considine.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
2d Class—Miss Marie Dallas.
3d Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Lola Otto, Catharine Wall, Lillie Lancaster,* Catharine Lancaster, Linda Fox, Mary Feehan.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Sarah Hambleton, Teresa Kill el ea, Angela Dillon.	'
3d Class—Misses lorantha Semmes, Sophie Papin, Mary Sullivan, Julia Butts, Sarah Purdy, Catharine Campbell, Mary Loe-ber, Maud Casey.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Miss Rebecca Neteler.
2d Class—Misses Harriet Buck, Sarah Hambleton.
3d Class—Misses Anna Cortright, Angela Ewing.
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
■ Misses Lillie Lancaster, Oliva Williams, Catharine Hackett, Annie McGrath, Edith Alden, Sarah Purdy, Mary Campbell, Mary Fitzgerald, Lolo Otto, Genevieve Tailman, Caroline Bannister, Clara de Lapp, Mary Bishoff, Margaret Semmes, Ellen Hackley, Catharine Donnelly, Elizabeth Bruser, Mary E. Callinan, Margaret Piersol, Mary Mitchell, Ethna O’Connor, Anna Keenan, Frances Murphy, Angelique Taylor, Elizabeth Taylor, Mabel Roys, Louise Hamond, Jessie Herrick, Catharine Lloyd, Catharine Quinn.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Grace Taylor, Annie Leyden, Agnes Dillon, Genevieve Barlow, Cecilia Gibbons, Catharine Ryan, Ellen Ryan, Rose McCloskey, Mary Feehan, Catharine Harrison, Angela Watson, Catharine Claffey, Maud Casey.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Clara Silverthorne, Teresa Killelea, Ellen McGrath, Annie Woodin, Rebecca Ewing, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Cave-nor, Mary Sullivan, Catharine Ward, Annie Ryan, Annie Cortright, Henrietta Rosing, Catharine Quinn, Ellen Galen, Alice Farrell, Catharine Danaher, Harriet Buck, Adelaide Kirchner, Annie McGrath, Angela Dillon, Agnes Joyce, Edith Alden, Jessie Herrick, Lola Otto, Annie Jones, Josephine Mitchell, lorantha Semmes, Sarah Winston, Mary Fitzgerald, Catharine Donnelly, Caroline Bannister, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Isabella Tweedale, Marie Dallas, Mabel Roys, Kathleen Wells, Mary Bischoff, Mary English, Laura McMahon, Teresa Zahm, Margaret Piersol, Mary Campbell, Ethna O’Connor, Jennie Keys, Frances Murphy, Lillie Lancaster, Margaret Simms, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Hatch, Ellen Kinzie, Clara Stitzel, Angelique Taylor, Stella Gillen, Annie Keena, Ellen Thompson, Adella Dessaint, Catharine Wall, Agnes McKinnis, Caroline Gavin, Lulu Hammond, Mary McFadden, Dora Horner, Jennie Tallman, Sarah Purdy, Minnie Salomon, Anna Rasche, Mary Mitchell, Mary Halloran, Catharine Edelen, Emma Maxen, par excellence. Misses Eleanor Keenan, Annie Maloney, Saran Hambleton, Catharine Hackett, Angela Ewing, Catharine Lloyd, Louisa Neu, Minnie Loeber, Mary Usselman, Clara De Lapp, Bertha Julius, Elizabeth Bruser, Elizabeth Calliman, Ellen Hackley.
Junior department.
Misses Catharine Claffey, Agnes Dillon, Catharine Campbell, Julia Butts, -Marie McN. Garrity, Celestine Lemontey, Sabina Semmes, Ellen Hackett, Maud Casey, Annie Leyden, Margaret Fishburne, Maud Lewis, Julia Wells, Elise Dallas, Angela Watson, Grace Taylor, Rose McCloskey, Catharine Harrison, Mary Hutcheson, Ellen Ryan, Catharine Ryan, Minnie Carter, Cecilia Gibbons, Mary Paquette, Elizabeth Considine, Catharine Lancaster, Mary Flemming, Mary Duncan, Mary Reutlinger, Emma Joseph, Mary Chirhart, Jane Barlow, Bertha Legnard, Ada Clarke, Ida Moll, Martha Zimmerman, Blanche Garrity, Clara Ginz, Minnie Fisk, Isabella Hackett, Mary Fitzgerald, Mabel Wilkins, Lillie Robinson, Lillie Johnson, Virgina Orr, Margaret Baroux/par excellence. Misses Mary Feehan, Annie Orr, Sophie Papin, Ellen Lloyd, Elise Papin.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO-and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LODIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tlxe Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Chardton,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.
W. C. Van Horne,	J. C. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Manager.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
63
£
*1
Jr
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES, j Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices ' at Depot and 122 Randolph street.	;
-	Arrive. Leave. I
Kansas City and Denver Express via Jack-	|
sonville, Ill., and Louisana, Mo.3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Sringneld, St. Louis and Texas East Ex. via
Main Line...........................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex....7 30 am g 00 pm Chicago and Paduch Railroad Express.8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator, Wenona,Lacon and Washington Ex3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation..................9	20 am	500 pm
J. C. McMullin ,Gen.Manager. J. Charlton,Gen. Pass. Agt.
r
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12 16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 240 a.m: Cleve'and, 705 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4= p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 4=3 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4= 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago. 8 p.m.
8 03 am. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Ratt, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
RAILROAD.
X
r
Depots, foot of Lake St., Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St., and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St. and at the depots.
Leave. Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger.........*7:25 a.m.	* 7:30 p.m
Nebraska and Kansas Express.........*9:30 a.m.	* 4:05 p.m
Rockford and Freeport Express.......*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Dubuque and Sioux City Express......*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Pacific Fast Express................*10:30 a.m.	* 3:40 p.m
Kansas and Colorado Express.........*10:30	a.m.	* 3:40 p.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation........* 8:25 a.m.	* 1:35 p.m
Aurora Passenger....................*3:15	p.m. *7:55 a.m
Mendota and Ottawa Express..........*4:35	p.m. *10:40 a.m
Aurora Passenger....................* 5:30 p.m.	* 8:55 a.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation........* 6:15 p.m.	* 7:15 a.m
Freeport and Dubuque Express........* 9:30 p m.	* 6:35 a.m
Pacific Night Express for Omaha.....19:05 p.m.	16:55 a.m
Texas Fast Express..................*9:05	p.m.	I 6:55 a.m
Kansas City and St Joe Express......19:05 p.m.	J 6:55 a.m
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleeping Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.
X
k
*Sundays excepted. ^Saturday excepted. ^Monday excepted.
For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations, apply to
C. W. Smith, Traffic Manager, Chicago.
James R. Wood, Gen. Pass. Agent, Chicago.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect JUNE 8, 1879.
Going-	North.	STATIONS	Going-	South.
		Arrive	Leave		
1.40 a m.	3.20 p.m.	- - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m.	8.05 p.m
12.55 “	2.30 “	- - - - La Porte, - - -	10.25 “	8.55 “
12.28 “	2 08 “	- - - Stiillwell, - - -	10.45 “	9.20 «
12.07 “	1.44 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.10 “	9.47 «
11.27 p.m.	1.07 “	- - - Plymouth, - - -	11.47 “	10.33 «
10.31 “	12.10 “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12.40 p.m.	11.32 «
9.55 “	11.26 a.m.	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.17 “	12.12 a.m
9.25 “	W.47 “ 1	- - -	- Peru, - - - -	2.00 “	12.40 “
9.03 “	10.26 “	- - Bunker mil, - - -	252 “	1.01 «
8.33 “	9.56 11	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	3.00 “	1.35 “
7.52 "	913 u	- - - - Tipton, - - -	3.38 “	2.16 “
7.10 “	8.30 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4.25 “	3.02 “
6.10 “	7.25 “	- - Indianapolis, - - -	555 “	4.00 «
		- - - Cincinnati, - - - -	10.00 “	8.15 “
		- - Louisville. - - -	10.45 “	850 «
		- - - Saint Lonis, - -	7.30 a.m.	5.00 pjn
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 7.45 a.m. - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 11.00 a. m. “	“ 6.40 pm. - -	“	“	9.50 p.m.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p.m,- - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	“	11.10 “	- - -	“ .	“ 2.55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
I^Births §1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l Manger, Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Paes, and Ticket Agent.
GREAT SOUTHED EAXLWAY^LINE.
C. 1*. ATMORE,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(
WAIN BUILDING.)
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1843, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together, finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Revj W. CORBY, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.