Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 8, 1881.	Number 5.
Robert Southwell.
It is pleasing and captivating to find a poet animated with love of a supernatural tendency as well as with the fire of poesy. With both of these the charming subject of my essay was filled to an eminent degree. That he possessed the fire of poesy is evident from those beautiful lyrics which are read with such delight by all the lovers of the old Elizabethan poets. That his heart burned with divine love is proved by his glorious death. His writings were of such note that they became the favorites of all creeds and professions. Even more: we are credibly informed that the great arch-persecutor herself, the stern Elizabeth, she whose hand signed the poet’s death-warrant, was a devoted admirer of his productions, and carried a copy about with her; and in spite of her characteristic parsimony she caused an edition of his poems to be printed at her private expense.
Robert Southwell was descended from an ancient family, distinguished in the annals of his country. He was born at St. Faith’s, in Norfolk, in the year 1561. It is related that when he was yet an infant a gypsy, or vagrant, stole him from the cradle, substituting for him her own child. The theft, however, was soon discovered, and the vagrant was arrested a short distance from the house. In after-years, when speaking of this circumstance, he was frequently heard thanking God for his deliverance from what might have proved a career of turpitude and vice. His early youth is represented as giving promise of future excellence. Obedience to his parents, docility to his instructors, and gentleness to all, won him every heart. The liveliness of his manner was at the same time tempered by a gravity beyond his age. At the age of fifteen, he was sent to Paris to complete his education, where he progressed wonderfully, both intellectually and morally. Sir Robert Southwell, his father, after the death of his first wife, had married one of the Ladies of Honor to Queen Elizabeth. This brought him in contact with a court in the looseness of whose morality and in the contagion of whose bad example he had everything to fear for the integrity of his faith. The consequence was such as there was too great reason to apprehend: Sir Robert fell away from the faith of his fathers, and accepted an appointment in the Queen’s household. Nothing could exceed the grief of his son Robert when he heard of his father’s apostasy. Not content with pouring forth daily prayers for his return to the truth, he addressed a letter to him which is a model of that eloquence which goes directly to the heart. His father had but to read it in order to enter into himself, acknowledge his error, and atone for the past by amendment of life.
In Paris, Southwell was placed under the care of Mr • John Cotton, a member of the distinguished family of that name. His turn of mind becoming known to this gentleman, he was closely watched, and every obstacle thrown in the way of his following what he conscientiously considered to be his vocation. He, however, found means to elude the vigilance of his guardian, and not having money enough to defray the expenses of a journey to Rome, he travelled the greater part of the way on foot. A college, for the supply of missionaries to his native country had, by the pious zeal of the good Cardinal Allen, been recently established in the capital of the Christian world—Rome. Anticipating, as it were, the crown of martyrdom that was to be awarded to his zeal, our young enthusiast felt ambitious to enroll his name among the members of the Society of Jesus, into which he was received on the 18th of October, 1578, being then in his eighteenth year. In this retreat, he was enabled to satisfy that thirst for knowledge which seems early to have taken possession of his heart. His assiduity was unbounded, and he successively outstripped his competitors in the classes of poetry, rhetoric and theology. He at the same time applied himself closely to the study of his native language,—an acquirement that was, in general, but too much neglected by those educated abroad. What degree of proficiency he made is abundantly proved by his numerous productions, both in prose and verse. But a new scene was opening for his labors. He was to quit the shade of academic bowers, and to bear the heat and burden of the day in a trying field of action.
In the year 1584 Southwell was ordained priest, and on the 20th of February of the following year he addressed a letter to the Superior-General of the Jesuits, in which he expressed a desire to devote his life to the care of souls in England. It may be well to pause for a moment and take a view of the state of English Catholics at this period; we shall thus be able to form some idea of the position of things when Southwell entered upon his mission. Upon the promulgation of the penal statutes, many of the Catholics sought, with their families, an asylum beyond the sea; their lands and property were immediately seized by the Crown, and given or sold at low prices to the sycophants of the court. The Catholics who remained may be divided into two classes: first, those who, to escape the penalties, attended occasionally at the established service, and endeavored to elude the charge of hypocrisy by maintaining, from the words of the Queen’s proclamation, that such attendance was with them nothing more than the discharge of a civil duty, an expression of their obedience to the letter of the law; and secondly, those, and happily the far greater number, whose conscientious scruples were not content with such an evasion. They kept aloof
58	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
from a worship which they disapproved, and were in consequence compelled to pass their lives in solicitude and alarm. They lay at the mercy of enemies, or ill-disposed neighbors; they were daily watched, and liable at any moment to be hurried before the courts of high commission, whose decision for Catholics was invariably death or imprisonment for life.
Such was the social situation of England on the arrival of Father Southwell and his companion, Father Henry Gartnet We can imagine the danger which those men incurred by landing in a place in which the word “ Catholic ” was synonymous with death. Our zealous|missionaries, however, escaped for some time the officers of the law, and were welcomed by Lord Vaux. It chanced that shortly after this the confessor of the Countess Arundel died, and our poet was appointed domestic chaplain and confessor to her ladyship. It was while in her family that he composed for the use of the Earl of Arundel (who was confined inthe Tower) the work “Consolation for Catholics.” One of the first things which occupied his attention, however, on his arrival in England, was to cause his father to return to his religious duties. His father was at this time a person of considerable wealth, and had married a lady, as has been mentioned before, who had formerly been the instructor of Queen Elizabeth in the Latin language. Both of these circumstances made him a time-server; and though he never doubted any of the articles of his old Catholic faith, yet they caused him to absent himself from his religious duties. The poet-priest strove to bring his parent to the practice of his religion, and in this he happily succeeded. For six years Father Southwell resided with Lady Arundel, ministering to the wants of the Catholic neighbors, and following the object of his mission with great success. It was during these years that he wrote his poems, “ St Peter’s Complaint,” “ Mary Magdalen’s Tears,” and others. His career as a missionary was brought to a close in the year 1592. In that year he was most basely betrayed into the hands of his enemies. The circumstances of his betrayal are thus related by Turnbull :
There was resident at Uxenden, near Harrow on the hill, in Middlesex, a Catholic family of the name of Bellamy, whom Southwell was in the habit of visiting and providing with religious instruction when he exchanged his ordinary close confinement for a purer atmosphere. One of the daughters, Ann, had in her early youth exhibited marks of the most vivid and unmistakable piety, but having been committed to the Gate-house of Westminster, her faith gradually departed and along with it her virtue; for having formed an intrigue with the keeper of the prison, she subsequently married him, and by this step forfeited all claim which she had by law or favor upon her father. In order, therefore, to obtain some fortune, she resolved to take advantage of the Act of Elizabeth, which made the harboring of a priest treason, with confiscation of the offender’s goods. Accordingly, she sent a messenger to Southwell urging him to meet her on a certain day at her father’s home, whither he, either through ignorance of what had happened, or under the impression that she sought his spiritual assistance, went at the appointed time. In the mean time, she apprized her husband of this, as also of the place of concealment in her father’s house, and of the mode of access. The implacable persecutor, with a band of satellites, surrounded the premises, broke open the house, arrested Father Robert, and carried him off in open day. He was in the first instance taken to the
persecutor’s dwelling, where, during a few weeks, he was	1
put to the torture ten times with such dreadful severity	;
that Southwell, complaining to the judges, declared that	;
death would have been preferable. Afterwards he was transferred to the Gate-house; there he was kept in close confinement for some time, until taken to the Tower, where he was thrown into a most filthy dungeon. For three years our poet was confined in the Tower. Towards the end of this time, he wrote to the Lord Treasurer, Cecil, begging that he might be brought to trial. The request was granted, and, on the 21st, he was placed at the bar before the Chief Justice to answer the charge of treason.
Father Southwell pleaded not guilty, but stated distinctly that he was a Catholic priest, and that, prompted by charity for his countrymen, he had returned to his native land simply to administer the Sacraments to his fellow-	i
Catholics and to perform the usual duties of a Catholic priest. When the evidence had closed, Coke rose and addressed the prisoner in a long and rambling discourse, in. which passion claimed a far greater share than either reason or charity. When he had declaimed as long as he thought
fit against the servant of Christ, with reproaches, and jeer-	1
ing him upon his sacred profession, to which he offered no other answer than meekness, and that silence which is sometimes more eloquent than speech, the jury retired to consult about their verdict. They were not long in delib-
erating, and their verdict was “ guilty.” This return of	?
the jury was accepted with Christian resignation by the	>
innocent poet, who took his revenge for the unjust sentence by praying for his persecutors. On the morning of the 21st of Feb., 1595, the keeper of the prison came to his cell to announce that the day had arrived on which he had to
suffer for the priesthood. He embraced him in a trans-	'
port of joy, and returned thanks for the happy tidings.
Immediately after, he was placed on a hurdle and drawn to Tybnrn, the place of execution. His countenance being covered with dust from the journey, a friendly hand presented a handkerchief to wipe his forehead; it was Father Gartnet, the partner of his studies in Rome and of the dangers that beset his journey to England. Below the gibbet stood a cart in which the blessed martyr was	,
placed. Then, making the Sign of the Cross, he addressed the multitude, commencing with the words of the Apostle : “ Whether we live, we live unto the Lord; or whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Therefore, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord’s.” The crowd testi-	I
fied their admiration by their silence and decorum during his short speech, which was calmly delivered, and moved the audience to pity. The horses then started and the car.
moved from under his feet. In a short while after, the poet exchanged the harp for the palm.
Thus died Robert Southwell, a Catholic priest, a member of the illustrious Society of Jesus, leaving to us an example of a noble poet and a holy man. His poems are most beautiful, and were highly appreciated during his time. Everything he wrote, either in prose or verse, is marked by a deep moral pathos, illumined by fervent piety. There is something singularly simple, chaste, eloquent and fluent in his diction on all occasions. The longest of his works, “ St. Peter’s Complaint,” is a solemn poem in which St. Peter bewails his denial of Christ—in which the remorse and shame, the sorrow and repentance of Peter are depicted in a graphic and really poetic manner, and has justly been a favorite with all lovers of religious poetry.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
59
Dr. Hall, the Anglican Bishop of Norwich, undertook to ridicule the sacred poetry of his time, and wrote two years after our poet’s martyrdom: — .
“Parnassus is transformed to Sion Hill, And jewry-palms her steep ascents doon fill; Now good St. Peter weeps pure Helicon, And both the Marys make a music moan.”
But Marston came to the rescue of our glorious poet, and struck back the following:
“ Come dance, ye stumbling satyrs by his side, If he list once the Sion must deride.
Ye Granta’s white nymphs, come, and with you bring Some syllabub, whilst he doth sweetly sing ’Gainst Peter’s tears, and Mary’s moving moan, And like a fierce, enraged bear, doth foam
At sacred sonnets.”	'
Duttenhoefeb.
Art, Music, and Litertaure.
—Miss Louise Sylvester, the actress, has made an excellent bust of President Garfield, which is on exhibition in New York.
—Muller, the sculptor, whose statue of “Prometheus Bound ’’ has been purchased by the German Government for sixty thousand marks, was at one time assistant cook of an inn.
—One of the iron poods forged by Peter the Great at the celebrated forge of Muller in Istria, and from the labor of which he purchased a pair of shoes while he was yet on the throne of .Russia, is now on exhibition in the cabinet at St. Petersburg.
—Miss G. M. Griswold is winning golden opinions at the Grand Opera House, in Paris. Americans- there say that she is the coming American prima donna who is destined to surpass her predecessors. Her worth, both as an artist and a true woman, in every sense of the word, is highly spoken of by all.
—Mr. S. G. Pratt’s new opera, “ Zenobia,’’ will shortly be issued by Messrs. Oliver, Ditson & Co., Boston. The chief role is written expressly for Miss Annie Louise Cary, who will create the part next season. This will be the first grand opera in English written by an American and published in its entirety by an American firm.—American Art Journal.
—M. Zola has made an original discovery in the ethics of literature which he reveals in his last Figaro essay. He is profoundly convinced that “ realism ” purifies the heart, and that what is supposed to be a characteristic evil of French society can be traced directly to the baneful influence of ideal romances like George Sand’s “Indiana ” and Octave Feuillet’s “Romance of a Poor Young Man.”
—The editor of the Western Watchman says that the late Archbishop Henni was “ the founder, and for many years editor, of that sterling German Catholic paper, the Cincinnati Wahrheit's Freund (Friend of Truth). He was the oldest Catholic editor in the United States. It would be a good idea to hold the long-promised Catholic editors’ Convention on the first anniversary of his death, say in the city of Milwaukee.”
—The originator of the art of plate printing was Tomasso Finiguerra, a goldsmith of Florence, Italy, who, in 1452, made an impression on paper from a silver pyx he had engraved for the Church of San Giovanni in Florence, the subject being “ The Crowning of the Virgin.” This pyx is now among the treasures of the Church of St. John, and the print from it is in the French National Library at at Paris, where it was discovered in 1797.—Paper World.
—Several precious engravings by Albert Durer have been stolen from the library of the University of Bologna. A person employed in the library has disappeared. The authorities placed seals on the library, which is now closed, and an inquiry will be held. The inquiry into the robbery of books and manuscripts from the Victor Emmanuel library in Rome has ended in nothing. The frauds and robberies are notorious, but the threatened prosecutions have been abandoned.
—Mr. Austin Dobson gave a correspondent of the Phila
delphia Press the following “twelve good rules of familiar verse: 1. Never be vulgar. 2. Avoid slang and puns. 3. Avoid inversions. 4. Be sparing of long words. 5. Be colloquial, but not commonplace. 6. Choose the lightest and brightest of measures. 7. Let the rhymes be frequent, but not forced. 8. Let them be rigorously exact to the ear. 6. Be as witty as you like. 10. Be serious by accident. 11. Be pathetic with the greatest discretion. 12. Never ask if the writer of these rules has observed them himself.”
—Miss Jane Lee, daughter of the Archdeacon of Dublin, is one of the most learned ladies in Europe. The late profound scholar, Professor Beufey, was her teacher, and before his death he charged her to put into English the whole of the great Sanskirt epic, the Mahabharata, 80,000 lines, as only fragments of it had been translated before. Miss Lee has begun her task, and she will also help Professor Atkinson with his “ Old Irish Dictionary ” for the Royal Irish Academy—Irish American.
—Clara Bell says that while the Venus of Milo is regarded as the perfection of shapeliness in woman, if you were to put her in clothes and start her off down Broadway, she would attract attention by her ungainliness, and not by her beauty. She would do well enough in statuary, but had better not get down from her pedestal, for she would surely be guyed if she attempted to pass as a fashionable woman. She would be compelled to wear a thirty-two-inch corset and No. 9 shoes; and would absolutely have no style about her. We go in for curved lines more than the Greeks did, and far greater delicacy. There is no use in saying that they were right and we are wrong, because that will not alter the matter. Centuries of tight lacing have molded the civilized female form into its present hour-glass proportions, and it is enough that the men of the period like it so. Those who want Venuses must go out among the Indian squaws for them. The real Venus shape isn’t appreciated in refined society.—American Art Journal.
—Poets do not die young. Here is Martin Farquhar Tupper, who is seventy years old, and as chipper as a schoolboy.—Few Haven Register.
And who ever accused that somniferous old proser of being a poet? What does he know about the tuneful sisters ? Did he ever sip mountain dew in the rosy dawn with the sacred daughters of Jove ? Did he ever try to spur his broken-winded pegasus up the classic steeps of Helicon or Parnassus? Did he ever entwine with roses the golden hair of the fair Erato, as she complacently gazed on her virgin charms in the pellucid waters? Did he ever chase butterflies in the Elysian Fields, or dine on ambrosia and nectar with the gods and goddesses on Olympus, as the gentle Hebe passed the dishes? No? Then is Mr.Martin Farquhar Tupper the veriest of poetic shams—yea, verily, a proverbial old humbug, whose poetic faculty—if he ever had any—has long since been swallowed up in plethoric roast beef and plum pudding.—Bufalo Catholic Union.
Scientific Notes.
—David Brooks, of Philadelphia, has been offered for the right to use his patent underground telegraph system in Great Britian and Ireland the sum of half a million of dollars.	•
—Mount Lapwai, one of the range of Blue Mountains in Idaho Territory, has suddenly developed into a volcano. From Cawas Prairie, which is two miles distant, a column of smoke can be seen reaching far up into the sky. The flames shoot upward to a considerable height, and the flow of lava is continuous, and has already covered a large portion of ground to the extent of a mile. The air around, for quite a distance, is filled with a strong sulphuric, sickening odor, which makes it next to impossible to remain in the neighborhood for any length of time.
—When people leave their houses for a time, in summer or winter, and the rooms get damp, the furniture, wall-paper, etc., are liable to injury. Such dampness can be prevented by the following simple precaution: Before leaving the house, the rooms containing furniture ought to be well fastened up, to exclude as much of the outer air as
60
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
possible; a dish with dry chloride of lime should then be placed in the middle of the apartment, and inside another larger empty vessel, intended to receive the water flowing out of the former. The well-dried chloride of lime has such an affinity for water that it will attract all the moisture contained in the room and keep the air perfectly dry, so that no harm can occur to furniture, books, paper, etc. . Care must only be taken to open doors and windows when the apartments are to be occupied, as this dried air is not good for breathing.
—In further research on the subject, Dr. Le Bon finds that collidine, the new alkaloid existing in tobacco smoke (with other aromatic principles, and prussic acid, as well as nicotine), is a liquid of agreeable and very penetrating odor, and as poisonous as nicotine, the twentieth part of one drop sufficing to paralyze and kill a frog. It is the prussic acid and various aromatic principles that cause headache, giddiness, and nausea in smoking certain tobaccos that contain little nicotine. Other tobaccos, rich in nicotine, have no such effects. The tobaccos containing most prusssic acid and collidine are those of Havana and the Levant. The dark semi-liquid matter which condenses in pipes and cigar-holders contains all the substances just named, as well as carbonate of ammonia, tarry and coloring matter, etc. It is very poisonous; two or three drops of it will kill a small animal. The combustion of tobacco destroys but a small part of the nicotine, and most of this appears in the smoke. The proportion absorbed bjr smokers varies according to circumstances, but hardly ever falls below fifty centigrammes per one hundred grammes of tobacco burnt About the same quantity of ammonia is absorbed at the same time. Naturally, more of the poisonous principles are absorbed where the smoke is breathed (as in a room) less in the open air. A frog placed in a receiver containing a solution of nicotine, with about one drop of that substance to a little water, succumbs in a few hours. Tobacco smoke contains about eight millilitres of carbonic oxid per one hundred grammes of tobacco burnt. The poisonous properties of tobacco smoke are not due to this gas, as has been maintained in Germany.
New Publications.
The Catholic Family Annual for 18S2. With Calendars Calculated for Different Parallels of Latitude, and Adapted for Use Throughout the United States. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street. 144 pages. 25 cents.
This handsomely gotten up Annual is now in the fourteenth year of its publication, and with a circulation of upwards of 30,000 annually it should now be well known throughout the United States. That it is so we can have little doubt, but instead of 30,000 copies a year there should be a demand for 500,000 copies at least. The CatholicFamily Annual is scarcely excelled by anything of the kind in any language; this is saying a great deal in its praise, as anyone knows who is acquainted with the annuals or yaarbuchs issued in Germany—the Marian Calendar, the Hinsiedeln Calendar of the Benziger Bros, and others. The following is an alphabetical list of the contents: An Ingenious Evasion; Archbishops and Bishops, List of; Area of the U. S.; Astronomical Calculations; Beton, Cardinal (with portrait); Blanchet, Most Rev. F. N., D. D, (with portrait); Boaster Outboasted, The; Calderon de la Barca, The Rev. Pedro (with portrait); Calendars; Catholic Missions in San Antonio, Texas; Census of Ireland in 1881; Constantine the Great (with engraving); Days of Abstinence; De Vere, Aubrej' (with portrai’); Digby, Kenelm Henry (with portrait); Fasting Days of Obligation ; First Colony in N. J. and Long Island; First Organ in France, The; Fruits ye shall Know Them, By their; Galileo (with portrait); Gopd Old Plough, The Grianan of Aileach, County Donegal; Guesclin, Bertrand du (with engraving); Holydays of Obligation; Hermann von Mallinckrodt (with portrait); Little Sisters of the Poor; McAuley, Catharine, Founder of the Sisters of Mercy (with portrait); Oakeley, Very Rev. Canon (portrait); O'Cal-lagban, E. B., M.D.? LL. D- (with portrait); Olier, Rev. F.,
Founder of the Order of St. Sulpice (with portrait); Pauline von Mallinckrodt (with portrait); Rhode Island Bigotry; St. Benedict and his Order; St. Catharine of Sienna; St. Patrick’s Chair, Altadaven Glen (with illustration); St. Patrick’s Church, Dublin (illustration); Strassburg Cathedral (illustration); Young, Very Rev. Nicholas Dominic, O. S. D., (with portrait).
Exchanges.
—We give a most cordial greeting to The Valparaiso Herald, a new venture in journalism at Valparaiso, Indiana, under the editorial management of Mr. P. O’Sullivan (of ’73). The Herald is a neatly-printed paper, and after glancing over its editorials, news items, and miscellaneous articles, we have come to the conclusion that Mr. O'Sullivan has not made a mistake in entering the journalistic arena. His motto, “Independent in everything; neutral in nothing,” is admirably chosen. We wish the Herald success.
—The current number of McGee's Illustrated Weekly contains the following engravings: I, Funeral Obsequies of the late President Garfield; II, General Arthur Taking the Oath of Office; III, Christianity, by Gustave Dore, and IV, Taking the Carmelite Habit, by Rougeron,—both of the latter pictures being taken from the paintings on exhibition in the Paris Salon; V, The Ascent to Mount Washington; portraits of the late Senator Burnside and M. Roustan. Rougeron’s Taking of the Carmelite Habit depicts a most affecting scene—the three veiled Sisters, personating Faith, Hope, and Charity—Faith in the centre, upholding a heavy plain cross; Hope and Charity at her right and left respectively, each holding a lighted taper; the kneeling postulant taking the symbolic taper; the celebrant, in' his pontifical robes, giving the benediction; attendant priests and acolytes, all evidently much affected; the group of male and female relatives standing by, with various shades of emotion depicted on their countenances, a sister with head bowed down in sorrow - at the parting, another weeping on the shoulder of the mother— all this, finely portrayed, is indeed a most affecting picture. The heroine alone seems unmoved by human feeling— with eyes slightly raised to heaven, she consummates the willing sacrifice, the holocaust of her pure life laid, like Magdalen of old, at the feet of her Redeemer. The subscription price of McGee's Illustrated Weekly is $3 a year. Address, P. O. Box 2120, New York.
—We regret that time and space do not permit us to make frequent mention of our many Catholic exchanges, both English and German. The only representative of the Portuguese language that we receive is O Jornal de Nb-ticias, published by John M. Vincent’s Sons, Erie, Pa. Although the general character of the Jornal is in keeping with its name, it is not devoted exclusively to news, for ably written articles in prose and verse, and of a very unexceptionable character, find a place in its pages. The only French exchange that we have received, so far, is Le Moniieur Acadian, doubly welcome to many here on account of the news from our sister college at Memramcook, N. B. Somehow, whenever we see Le Moniteur Acadien we cannot help recalling to mind the pathetic story of Longfellow’s “Evangeline.” Prominent among our German exchanges are the Wahrheitsfreund, the oldest German Catholic paper in America, published by the Benziger Bros, Cincinnati, Ohio; Calholische Volkszeitung, Kreuzer Bros., Baltimore; Wochenblatt der Amerika, daily and weekly, St. Louis, Mo.; Katholisches Wochenblatt, F. X. Brandecker, Chicago; Waisenfreund, Columbus, Ohio; Katholisches Volksblatt, New York; Herald des Glaubens, St Louis, Mo ; the Volksfreund, Cincinnati, Ohio; Luxemburger Gazette, Dubuque, Iowa; Michigan Volkszeiting, Detroit; and many others. The names of the English exchanges would be “too numerous to mention” in one list, so we will have to give them in batches as time and space permit. With the exception of a few, each paper has its own peculiar feature or features which give it interest even to one who is accustomed to scanning a large pile of exchanges. Here, for instance, is the New York Freeman's Jcarnal, with ap able leader on certain rules—new to us--
F i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
61
governing State Legislatures in general and the U. S. Senate in particular, bearing upon the election of a president for such bodies in certain contingencies. And this is but a sample of many such articles that appear in this paper. The veteran senior editor of the Freeman's Journal seems to be perfectly at home in the regions of philosophy, theology, canon law, and politics, so it is not surprising that his utterances on general topics have a certain weight. The associate editor of the Freeman, Mr. Maurice F. Egan, although a young man, is already so well and favorably known as a magazine writer and poet that it is unnecessary to say further than that, unlike many distinguished writers, he is a vigorous, matter-of-fact newspaper editor. Next comes The Pilot, Boston, Mass., edited by the hero poet, John Boyle O’Reilly, a man of good, sound practical common sense, as the contents of his paper prove. Mr. O'Reilly, Mr. Manly Tello of the Catholic Universe, Cleveland, and Mr. McCormick of The Monitor, San Francisco, seem to be newspaper editors to the manor born. The Catholic Standard, Philadelphia, is a family paper both in size and in matter; its editor, Mr. Geo. D. Wolff, is a scholar whose pen has often contributed to the American Catholic Quarterly and the magazines. The Tablet, New York, is also a mammoth affair; we called attention to it a short time ago. The Catholic Sentinel, of Oregon, which drooped for a while after its former editor’s departure, has regained all its former prestige and is nowagain in the van of Catholic newspapers. Of the True Witness, Montreal, we have hitherto spoken at some length, and if we were to add anything it could be only in terms of greater praise; it is a live paper and can hardly fail of being appreciated. The Catholic Review, which comes from the same publishers as the handsome Illustrated Catholic American, is full of excellent matter, news and miscellaneous articles; the learned lectures, from all parts of the world, which the editors take special pains to preserve, insures its preservation and makes it valuable for reference. The Catholic Columbian is noted for its Pungent Paragraphs on all manner of subjects. The leading feature of the Catholic Mirror, Baltimore, is its excellent Washington letter and general diocesan news; those who hail from Baltimore or Washington look upon it as almost equal to a letter from home. The Irish-American, New York, is second only to The Pilot as a medium-of Irish news; and speaking of news, we think the Catholic Telegraph, Cincinnati, and the Weekly Visitor, Providence, R. I., as models in their manner ot condensing it. A little more news in the Visitor would be an improvement, and if other papers followed the Telegraph, Visitor and Catholic Herald in regard to news, their value to subscribers would be very much enhanced. The Western Watchman, St. Louis, seems to have flagged in energy during the warm weather, but is up and doing again; the keen wit of the editor adds spice to the editorial notes. The next on our pile is the Cincinnati Catholic Telegraph, now in the 50th year of its publication, the Freeman's Journal coming next in age. The Telegraph is edited by—well, we find no name given ; but whoever he may be, he is evidently possessed of real editorial grit; he it was who first trotted out those “ pesky varmints” the O. A. U. and so-called “American Alliance” from their holes and hiding places. The editor of the Telegraph is evidently a scholar, and, if we judge correctly, must be a master of seven or eight languages, and seems to be quite familiar with Latin, Greek, French, Italian, German, Spanish, etc. (Why dosn’t he place his name at the head of his editorial columns ? Palmam qui meruit ferat.) We have gotten to the bottom of our pile for this week, and are glad of it; if the reader isn’t tired, we are.
College Gossip.
—Two graduates of Yale have offered to erect a physical laboratory for the use of the college.
—On account of the ill feeling caused by the elections, Dartmouth has made an end of class-day exercises.—Oberlin Review.
—“ Learning,” says a down-easter, “ is well enough; but
it hardly pays to give a five-thousand-dollar education to a five-dollar boy.”
—Only 20 candidates out of the 40 who recently presented themselves for admission to study medicine at Quebec passed successful examinations.
—The new Roman Catholic Theological Seminary for the archdiocese of Boston, to be built at Brighton, will contain rooms for 200 students, and will cost $300,000.
—To make the recent innovation in student attire exclusively distinctive, gowns will be necessary. The “supes ” at Barnum’s Own and Only Greatest Show on Earth wear mortar-boards!—Princetonian.
—Goldwin Smith denies the report that he has accepted a professorship at Oxford. He pronounces himself as being too well contented with his Toronto home, and the associations he has found in this country, to again make England his home.—Argo.
—A despatch from Rome announces that the Pope has given his decision in the Laval University question, refusing to interfere with the charter of the University of Laval in its stand maintained against the pretension of the extremists of Montreal.—Montreal True Witness.
—In Germany, Dr. Windisch, ofthe University of Leipsic, has published an Irish grammar with Irish texts for advanced students. Dr. Limmer, who came over from Berlin to preside at some of the council meetings of the society last year, still continues his Irish class in the University of Berlin, and in Australia a flourishing branch of the society has been formed.—Irish American.
—His Grace, the Archbishop of Quebec, received a special cablegram from Bishop Racine, at Rome, announcing that his Holiness the Pope has highly approved of the new Laval scheme for Montreal. It is certainly a great victory for those who stood by the Bill, and Hon. Mr. Chapleau, who gave it his undivided support. The Laval University authorities of Quebec are to be congratulated over their achievements at Rome.—Quebec Telegraph.
—All but one of the Churches of Ithaca in last year’s Era Church directory advertise with us again this year. We would dislike to advise the students not to patr mize the church, as that might hurt the boys more than the church, but still if the pastor should change his mind and come back to us, we could truthfully, religiously, and righteously say we rejoice “ more over that sheep than over the ninety and nine which went not astray.” We hope our subscribers will note our intimate knowledge of the_ Scriptures. Also the pastor of the church.—Cornell Era.
—Honor men, they all remind us
We can also have a shine;
And departing, leave behind us Ponies for the future time.
Ponies that perhaps another, Who cannot his place retain;
A forlorn and flunking brother Seeing shall take heart again.
Let us, then, be up and doing, With a heart for any fate;
Still translating, still construing, Expect a ten and get an eight.
—G. G. F. V. Argus ’
—President Porter, of Yale College, lately gave the following advice to students of that institution: “ Young men, you are the architects of your own fortunes. Rely upon your own strength of body and soul. Take for your star self-reliance, faith, honesty and industry. Inscribe on your banner ‘ luck is a fool, pluck is a hero.’ Don’t take too much advice; keep at your helm and steer your own ship. Assume your own position. Put potatoes in your cart, over a rough road, and small ones go to the bottom. Rise above the envious and jealous. Energy, invincible determination with a right motive, are the levers that move the world. Don’t drink. Don’t chew. Don’t smoke. Don’t swear. Don’t deceive. Don’t read novels- Don’t marry unt il you can support a wife. Be in earnest. Be self-reliant. Be generous. Be civil. Read the papers; advertise your business. Make money, and do good with it. Love God and your fellow-man, truth, virtue and your country.”
-J
62
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, October 8, 18S1.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of form er students.
All the weekly loca’ news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, SI.50 j>er Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—Two essays were printed in the Scholastic, week before last, without any credit. The article bn “American Antiquity ” was from the pen of T. F. Clarke; the one on “Vocation” was written by J. P. O'Neill,—both of last year’s Staff.
In Memoriam.
JOHN D. Jl'CORMICK, LANCASTER, OHIO.
It is our sad task this week to chronicle the sudden death of an alumnus of this University, Mr. John D. McCormick, of ’73. Those who kne v Mr. McCormick as a student here speak of him in terms of the highest praise, and his many classmates throughout the Union will hear with a pang of regret that his promising life has been cut short even before it had reached its prime. While at col. lege, Mr. McCormick not only took a prominent place in his studies, but was also a leader in manly sports on the campus and elsewhere, a member of the Boat Club, and a frequent contributor to the Scholastic, under the nom de plume of “ Me.” In the Catalogues of ’72 and ’73 we. find his name among the officers of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin, the N. D. Scientific Association and St Edward’s Literary Association. Rev. D. A. Clarke, editor of the Catholic Columbian, a classmate of Mr. McCormick’s at college, says of his departed friend: “ Throughout his life, his purity of morals, integrity of character and noble Christian bearing made him friends everywhere. John McCormick was ever whole-souled, generous-hearted, high-minded, affectionate, and reliable. The writer knew him as a fellow-student, and loved him for his worth. All the old students of Notre Dame, as well as the Faculty, will
be pained to hear of his sudden and early demise. May God give eternal rest to his soul. Amen.”
The Lancaster Eagle, of the 29 th ult., gives the following memorial, under the title
“Gone to His Rest.”
“ It is with the keenest sorrow that we are this week compelled to announce the death of our friend, John D. McCormick, County Prosecuting Attorney, which occurred suddenly at his residence on Saturday morning last.
He was a brilliant, talented and accomplished gentleman, and most highly esteemed, not only in this city and county, but wherever he was known, and his death, in the very prime of his manhood, will cause an aching void of sorrow in many hearts-He was born in Cincinnati, February 27, 1848. In 1870, John entered he Sophomore Class at Notre Dame University, and graduated as Bachelor of Science, in June, 1873. In June, 1875j he took the Master’s degree in science’ from this University, studied law under Kinnis Fritter, Esq., was admitted to the bar September, 7, 1875, by the District Court of Vinton county, began the practise of law in this city, and met with success from the beginning. In the year 1877, he was elected Mayor of Lancaster, and served two years most acceptably. A year ago he was elected Prosecuting Attorney, and discharged the duties of the office faithfully. He was an honest, conscientious man, a good neighbor, a kind husband, and a good citizen.
His funeral took place on Monday at 10 o’clock, and was the largest seen in this city since the death of Mr. Ewing. The funeral cortege left the house for St. Mary’s Church in the following order: City Police, Knights of St. John, Knights of St. George, Lancaster Bar, Mayor and City Council, Fire Department, St. Joseph's Society, of which he was a member, hearse and carriages. The following gentlemen acted as pall-bearers: George Matt, Peter .Miller, T. J. Hanson, John Cain, Frank Winter, Benjamin Dunn, James Scallan and John H. Zink. The services at the church were conducted by Revs. Fathers Schmitt, Clarke and Montag. Father Cady, of Logan, was also present. The remains were deposited in the vault at the Catholic cemetery.
The following members of the bar from abroad attended the funeral: W. J. Clarke, Prosecuting Attorney of Franklin county, and a classmate of deceased; J. H. Buerhaus, Prosecuting Attorney of Hocking county; John Furguson and Col. Lyman Jackson, of New Lexington ; and Hon. Lewis Green and Harry Ambrose, of Logan; also Frank McKenna, A. J. Ward, and a num. her of relatives and friends from Perry county.	’
Meeting of the Lancaster Bar.
At a meeting of the Lancaster Bar, held at the office of Wm. Davidson, Esq., on Saturday evening, Sept. 24th, 1881, Judge P. B. Ewing was called to the chair, and George L. Sites, Sr., was appointed Secretary. On motion of Mr. Reeves, it was
Resolved, That, as a mark of respect to the deceased, the members of the Lancaster Bar, on Monday, September 26th, 1881, at 10 o’clock a. m., attend in a body the funeral of our late brother, John D. McCormick.
On motion of Jos. S. Sites, the following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That the Chairman of this meeting, and four other members of the Bar, to be appointed by the Chairman, shall constitute a committee of five to draft and present to the Court of Common Pleas, on the first day of its next term, an address and resolutions, suitable to the occasion, and expressive of the feelings of the Lancaster Bar in this their great bereavement.	■
Whereupon the Chair announced the Committee as follows: Messrs. C. D. Martin, J. 8. Sites, Davidson, Fritter, and P. B. Ewing.
On motion, it was ordered that a copy of these proceedings be presented to the widow of our late brother, and be furnished for publication to our county newspapers.
When on motion of Mr. Fritter, the meeting was adjourned,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
63
to meet at the Cloak Room in the Court House, in Lancaster, at nine o’clock a. m., on Monday, Oct. 17,1881.
P. B. Ewing, Cha’n.
Geo. L. Sites, Sec’y.
Resolutions of St. Joseph’s Benevolent Society, of Lancaster.
Whereas, it has pleased Almighty God, in His inscrutable Providence, to call to Himself our lamented brother, John D McCormick, who departed this life on the night of September 23d, A. D. 1881, therefore,
Resolved, That in the death of John D. McCormick the Church has lost a true and consistent son; the State an upright, honorable and useful citizen, and this Society a trusted and faithful member.	.
Resolved, That while in the death of our near and dear associate our Society feels our great and heavy loss, still we bow in humble submission to the will of our Divine Father, who has seen proper to remove him from our midst.
Resolved, That to his sorely-afflicted wife and family we tender our heartfelt and sorrowing sympathy in this hour of bereavement and grief, and that we beseech our Heavenly Father that in this sad affliction He would grant them His aiding trace.
Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of this Society, and be publishod in all the city papers, Catholic Columbian, J. C. 13. U. Journal and Notre Dame Scholastic, and that a copy be transmitted to the bereaved widow of the deceased.
I Thomas Scanlan, Beni. F. Dum, Committee -< John G. Ewing,	M. A. Daugherty,
( John Weigel, John Cain.
The Lancaster Gazette, of September 29th, has the following item:
Death of John D. McCormick.
The community was terribly shocked on Saturday morning last by the intelligence that John D. McCormick, Prosecuting Attorney of this county, had been found dead in his bed. He had evidently died of a congestive chill*of heart trouble* While Mr. McCormick has been more or less indisposed for weeks past, with a touch of malarial fever, he has never been so sick as to occasion alarm. A man of splendid physique, hearty, robust and healthful, as a rule, his sudden death came like an electric flash from the clear skies. He was a good citizen, kind, affectionate, charitable, and enterprising, and was in a fair way to make himself a name in his profession, as a lawyer. He was elected Mayor of the city in 1876, filling the office with efficiency for one term, and in the fall of ’80 he was elected Prosecuting Attorney, in which capacity he displayed much zeal and activity. John D. McCormick was the sole remnant of his father’s family, and was born in the city of Cincinnati, in 1848. At an early age his parents died, and he was thrown upon his own resources for a livelihood. He was honest, industrious and upright; attained a good education, being a graduate as Bachelor of Science from Notre Dame University, and led up to his final hour a useful life. His wife, who was doubly afflicted by her absence in Cincinnati at the time of his death, is inconsolable at her loss, while scores of friends regret and mourn his early death.
The funeral, which was a very large one, composed of all the official bodies of the city, and hundreds of friends, took place Monday morning, at 10 .o’clock, from St. Mary’s Church, under the auspices of the Knights of St. Joseph, Father Montag, assisted by Father Dennis, of Columbus, officiating.
—Those who have had any experience in civil engineering in the far Western wilds will appreciate the narrative embodied in the lines that follow. We have heard the incident before, and, if rumor speaks truly, the experience was the writer’s own, and not the cook’s,—unless, perchance, the engineers had no servant at the time and had
to do the cooking by turns. It is sad to think that “ civil ” young men have to go to college for several years to become “ civil” engineers, and be forced to take up a wandering life among such un-civil people as the Utes:
Villa Grove P. 0., Saguache Co., Colorado, . Sept. 20,1881.
To the Editor of the Scholastic:
Dear Sir:—We arrived here last night after dark, and have pitched our tents with the intention of remaining in the neighborhood a week or so, as we have orders to relocate the line from this place to Saguache, and ^perhaps as far as Alamosa; so I should like to have you send me your paper to this address. I sent you a few lines when we were on the Pacific Slope, which I hope were duly received. I now enclose a dififerent sort of poem, although of an Indian character, which I submit to your judgment for insertion in your paper, if thought up to the mark. Many kind regards to all friends. I should like to know , you—that is, to know who you are this year; but I feel that I shall not miss the mark very far in subscribing myself -
Your affectionate friend,
A J. Stace.
THE BALLAD OF THE FEROCIOUS UTE AND THE CRAFTY COOK.
The Ute got up on his high,* high horse
And struck the Gunnison trail:
The dread design of his reckless course
- Was death to the faces pale:
At the whoop he whooped, without remorse The stoutest hearts might quail.
The cook alone in the Railroad camp
Is cooking the evening meal;	-
He hears afar the horse’s tramp
And the Indian war-whoop peal, And he knows too well that with men of that stamp It is nasty to have to deal.
Then swift ran he to the office tent, While the war-whoops louder grew;
For the red, red ink he quickly went, For the red ink and the blue,
And the colors he mixed and skilfully blent To a shade of purple hue.	'
He speckled his hands—he speckled his face With blotches both many and wide, • Until he resembled a sad, sad case
Of small-pox putrefied;
Then under his blankets he crept apace, His enemy’s wrath to bide.
The Ute descends the beetling rocks, Intent upon scalps is he;
But the cook’s appearance rudely shocks His dreams of barbarous glee;
For much he dreadeth the small, small pox E’en more than the old Harree.
He gazed on the cook’s empurpled skin And he briefly muttered “How!”
Then sudden turned he from the ways of sin And was off with troubled brow;
But the cook arose with a gratified grin— He was safe from the Indian now.
From this a lesson we ought to learn, (As we listen with due surprise) How good in evil we may discern,— So ever have done the wise,—
* Figurative. The Ute ponies are quite small.
64	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
For man can even, to serve his turn, The small-pox Utilize.
Personal.
—Julius Le Barth, of —, is express agent in Peoria, Ill.
—James Bell, ’72, is engineering on the Illinois Central Railroad.
—George V. Burbridge, ’74, is one of the city fathers of Alton, Ill.
—J. A. Gibbons (’79), of Keokuk, Iowa, is studying medicine.
—Joseph Fenlon, of Leavenworth, Kan., is here visiting his nephew.
—John F. O’Connell, ’73, is in the lumber business in Springfield, Ill.
—John H. Rothert (Commercial), ’78, is keeping store at Huntingburg, Ind.
—Wm. Connolly, ’80, now holds a responsible position in Cook Co. Hospital Chicago.
—I. R. Catterton, ’74, is owner of the finest opera house in Springfield, Ill., and has also a large music store in the city.
—We had the pleasure of a call this week from Mr. F. W. Tuerk, of the firm of Tuerk Bros. & Johnston, Chicago.
—G. F. Sugg is studying law at Union College in Chicago. He expects to pay his old friends here a visit on the 13th inst.
—Rev. Fathers Tynan, of ’68, Horrigan, ’68, Rev. Father Waldron, and Rev. Hugh Maguire—all of Chicago, paid Notre Dame a flying visit last week.
—Among the names of the speakers at the Grand Army Reunion in South Bend we notice those of Col. E. A. Olis, U. S. A., and Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C.
—Right Rev. Stephen V- Ryan, Bishop of Buffalo, N. Y., favored the University with a visit last Monday. He left or home on the 9 p. m. train Tuesday evening.
—Rev. Fathers. Corby, Condon, and Kelly are getting along nicely. They have on hand more applications «for missions than they can fill in the next five months.
—Right Rev. Joseph Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, arrived here on Tuesday last and spent the day. His kindly presence is always hailed with pleasure both by students and Faculty.
—J. E. Putnam, Manager, and Philo. Warner, assistant, of the Western Telephone Company, South Bend, visited Notre Dame during the past week. Both are genial, whole-souled gentlemen. Call again.
—Mr. F. Arantz, ’72, gave up a fine railroad position at Fort Wayne, Ind., about two years ago, and went to Alabama, where he engaged in the lumber business. Since then he has recuperated his health and is advancing rapidly to Fortune’s goal.
—Mr. W. Darst (Commercial), '75, is in business in Peoria, Ill. One of his old college friends called upon him there this vacation, found him hale and hearty, married, and doing well. Will has three promising boys, all of whom are to enter Notre Dame as soon as old enough.
—Mr. F. G. Brown, Manager of the Western Union Telegraph Company, South Bend, was called to Cleveland to take charge of the Company’s wires during the obsequies of President Garfield. No one more competent could have been selected by the Western Union Company to fill so important a position.
—We are in receipt of a very interesting letter from our esteemed friend Robert Pinkerton, of the famous Pinkerton Detective Agency. He speaks feelingly and pleasantly of his old college days here at Notre Dame, and rejoices at the advances made in the news line since the days when 11 The Progress” was started, which is now known by the name of the Scholastic.
—Inmates of Notre Dame wishing to have a pleasant
time should never pass by Joliet, Ill., in journeying westward. This one of the prefects demonstrated to his great pleasure during the past vacation, in meeting such old students as Eugene Fishburn, Jos. C. Braden, Charles H. Zarly, and last, but not least, Warren Fishburn, all of whom are most agreeable and sociable gentlemen.
—Mr. E. Asher, ’76, who is a clerk in the U. S. Naval service, paid Notre Dame a visit this week. Vennor may predict weather as cold as he pleases, but it will not scare Ed. a cent’s worth; he has been in Alaska for some time, and is no doubt able to stand it. Since leaving school, Ed. has travelled a great deal, and seen all parts of the world, Europe, Asia and Africa, North and South America.
—In a copy of the Lorain County Times which has fallen in our way we find the following item:
“ Mr. Joseph Farrell left last week for the Notre Dam e (Indiana) College, where he will take a Civil Engineering course. Since graduating from the High School here he has been connected with the resident engineer Corps of the N. Y. C. <fc St. L. Ry. He wisely concluded that a complete course in engineering would be the thing for him, hence his removal to Notre Dame. Joe’s many friends here wish him success.”
Local Items.
—Still they come.
—Who stole the flute ?
—Send us some personals.
—D. Lexington is again with us.
—Stuffy and Bob got 3 for rheumatics.
—The Elocution Class is well attended this year.
—Moses and Henry Foote are to be here this week.
—Monthly Bulletins were made out last Thursday.
—Another representative of Nashville arrived last Friday.
—Colfax has again returned, after a short visit to his home.
—Sam has returned, and the “ trio ” is again in working order.
—The Seniors have a Mark Anthony now among their number.
—Gallagher’s boat caused quite a flurry on last Sunday evening.
—Bishop Ryan paid the Band quite a compliment last Tuesday.
—“Rec. day” has been changed from Wednesday to Thursday.
—There is a thirteen-year-old Prep, that balances the scale at 162.
—During the rainy recreation days the Seniors pass their time in dancing.
—An “ Ohio man” claims the honor of being the strongest man in the College.
—The genial D. Danahey, we are pleased to note, is among the late arrivals.
—What two boys came down from the Infirmary when they heard there was “ rec ” ?
—The Preparatory Classes were visited during the week by the Rev. Prefect of Studies.
—Rumor has it that a certain Prep, is writing a story entitled, “Zeke Before the Mast.”
—“Tige” was sadly missed by the Law Class while on a visit to his personal friend, Hayes.
—What has become of the baseball nines? Has the national game died out at Notre Dame?
—Our “Marshal ” should remember that in public reading “ Discretion is the better part of valor.”
—Did you see “our Vicksburg friend ” in the shell, Sunday afternoon ? He was immense. Beware!
—The Elocution Classes are very well attended, and Pro£ Lyons takes delight in imparting the art of action.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
65
—There is something wrong in the north east corner of the Senior study-hall. “ ‘ Fatty,’ look to your feet, my lord! ”
—Such is the number of students that Bro. Leander is compelled to use some of the old desks until the arrival of ; new ones.	|
—Col. Otis, U. S. A., and Rev. P. P. Cooney occupied seats in Mayor Ham’s carriage, in the veterans’ procession, last Friday. -
—Over three hundred students in the College already. Everything bids fair to make this a most promising and successful year.
—The public readers in the Seniors’ refectory are Jas. Solon, E. A. Otis. M. F. Healy, J. P. O’Neill, E. C. Orrick, and C. A. Tinley.
—Nine Juniors were seen to have hold of the “strong man” at one time, in the game of football between the Juniors and Seniors.
—Geo. E. Clarke has returned. He will enter the Novitiate of the Holy Cross in a few days. We wish you every success, George.
—Some one has taken a copy of Graham’s Student's Journal from the Phonography class-room. He will confer a favor by leaving it with Bro. Leander. .
—The Minims have an occasional drill now in the evening after supper. They are greatly delighted, and go through the exercises in a very creditable manner.
—It is now said that the unearthly sound heard in a certain locality last week by some one crying out “ Fi-i-ire! ” did not come from any one of the declamation class.
—A reunion of the soldiers of Northern Indiana and Southern Michigan took place in South Bend last Friday. There were about two thousand veterans registered, and it is said to have been the most successful reunion ever held in this vicinity.
—The Notre Dame Telegraph Department is under obligations to Mr. F. G. Brown, Manager of the Western Union Telegraph Company, and Will Borden of the South Bend Office, for prompt transmission of official Bulletins during the illness of President Garfield.
—The arrival of Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger on Wednesday was a cause of great rejoicing to the small boys. He had a kind word and a pleasant smile for each of his young friends. He was obliged to leave on the evening tnjin, but will return on the 13th to celebrate the Feast of S lint Edward.
—It appears that the remainder of the department who were badly beaten by the Juniors at foot-ball, cannot bear with their defeat. If they wish to retrieve their poor playing, and still worse judgment, the same club are prepared al any time between this and June 23d, 1882, to play them on t heir own or any other grounds.
—At the fourth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, held October 1st, J. Fendrick read a composition on Columbus; declamations were delivered by G. J. Rhodius, H. Sells, G. Castenado, J. Grever, A. Browne, C. Rose. S. Murdock was [elected a member. Public readers for this week are as follows: G. J. Rhodius, E. Fishel, J. Grever, G. Castenado, J. Fendrick, A. Browne.
—A meeting of the Staff was held Saturday evening, Oct. 1st, for the purpose of reorganizing. But five of the old members were present, namely: Messrs. McGorrisk, Arnold, Fleming, O’Neill, and Clarke. The election of officers resulted as follows: Mr. Toomey, Director; Mr. W. B. McGorrisk, President; W. H. Arnold, Vice-President; T. F. Clarke, Secretary; R. Fleming, Treasurer. Sir. E. 0. Orrick was elected to membership.
—At the fourth regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatriau Society, held September 30th, Masters W. Mublke, J. Powell, G. Cassell, G. Tourtillotte, P. Yris-nrri, and H. Snee were unanimously elected members. Declamations were delivered by Masters F. Fishel and P. Yrisarri; songs were sung by Masters Devine, Snee, Sa-viers, F. Campau, and Gibert. Selections were given by D. C. Smith, W. Hanavin, L. Florman, J. Devine, and P. Archer,
—The thanks of the Senior students are due Mr. Jas. Marlett for the beautiful Mississippi mocking-bird presented to one of their prefects, and which is destined for the Senior study-hall after it has learned the “ Sweet by and by.” This proves the interest Jim takes in his College home—as with grip-sack in one hand and bird-cage in the other, he arrived at Notre Dame from his Vicksburg home. The bird has been appropriately named the “ Triple-tongued Warbler of the West.”
— The 2d regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on Sunday, September 2d. Declamations were delivered by Masters J. S. Chaves, J. H. Dwenger, M. Devitt. Francis I. Otis read a Composition. Compositions were assigned for the next meeting to W. Devine, B. Powell, G. Ruppe, E. Nash, J. J. McGrath, W. Miller, P. P. Johnson, and P. Campau. The President made a few remarks, and after some songs from J. H. Dwenger and D. E. O’Connor, the meeting adjourned.
—The eighth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Wednesday evening, Oct. 5th. Master Schaefer presented himself for membership, and was unanimously elected. Master E. Fishel was elected Historian; G. Castanedo,Recording Secretary; J. Ruppe and C. Murdock, Censors. The Historian was appointed to represent his branch at the next meeting, by a synopsis of the History of the State of New York. Compositions were assigned to Masters Rhodius, Rose, Castanedo, Fendrick, Ruppe and Fishel for the next meeting.
—Bishop Ryan, of Buffalo, paid a visit to the Minim Department on Tuesday. He expressed his pleasure at seeing such a crowd of Minims, and was surprised to find that some had come from such distances as Montana and Wyoming Territories, Kansas, Washington, etc. He praised their beautiful study-hall, and remarked how bright and happy they all seemed. He repeated in substance the recommendations made them by Very Rev. Father. General, advised them to make good use of their time, for now they were enlarging the little cells in their brains, and filling them with useful knowledge.	'
—The remaining clubs of the Minim Department are as follows: The St. Edward Nine: Ed Chirhart, Captain; Albert Roberts, Treasurer; Jno. Kelly, Secretary; Ed Chirhart, catcher; Hubert Ackerman, pitcher; Mark Byrne, 1st base; Jno. Kelly, 2d base; Geo. Price, 3d base; Albert Otis, left field; Albert Roberts, right field; Claude Brandom, centre field; Harry Hynes, short-stop. The St. Aloysius Nine: Willie Miller, Captain; Michael McDevitt, Treasurer; Louis Young, Secretary; Jas. Rose, pitcher; Michael McDevitt, 1st base; Louis Young, 21 base; Jos. BeaU, 3d base; Chas. Young, right field; Frank Coad, left field; Wm. Miller, catcher; Jno. McGrath, shortstop ; Harry Dirksmyer, centre field.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Ryan, of Buffalo, visited the College this week. On Tuesday morning, at o’clock, the students assembled in the rotunda of the College to pay their respects to the distinguished visitor and to listen to the address which they were informed would be delivered. When the Rt. Rev. Bishop made his appearance, he was received with applause, and the Band, which was stationed above, played “Up Vine Street-.’’ When the music had ceased Rev. T. E. Walsh, President of the University, introduced the Rt. Rev. gentleman to the assembled students. He spoke of the advantages of a Christian and classical education and complimented the Faculty on their success in establishing such an advanced course of studies in the University. After the address, all knelt to receive the Bishop’s blessing.
—The second regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held last Sunday evening, October 2d. The following gentlemen were present at the meeting: Rev. Fathers Granger, Toohey and Stoffel; Bros. Marcellinus, Leander, Philip, Thomas and Basil, and Col. E. A. Otis. Bro. Basil kindly acted as organist. In the absence of the Rev. President, Father Stoffel occupied the chair. The ten-minutes’ instruction was given by Rev. Father Granger. Master N. H. Ewing explained the Sacrifice of the Mass. The following named were appointed to take part in the next regular meeting; Master G. J. Rho-
66
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
dins, who will give a sketch of the life of St. Edward; Master N. J. Nelson will instruct us how to prepare for confession; and Master J. Guthrie will explain the devotion of the Rosary. Master J. Grever was unanimously elected to membership. After a few remarks by the Rev. gentleman who presided, the meeting adjourned.
—Postmaster Pfleger, of South Bend, published a card in the Evening Register, a few days ago, stating that on account of lack of proper support by the General P. O. Department at Washington he is compelled to dismiss some of the necessary employes, and begs the patience and kind indulgence of the public under the circumstances. The Register informs its readers that the South-Bend post-office is first-class in its receipts, and last year turned over to the Government $12,000, after paying all expenses, yet in the matter of appropriations it is ranked only second-class. For some years the postmaster has been paying out of his own pocket for the extra labor needed for the accommodation of the public—in the hope, it might be, that the Department at Washington would in due time recognize the necessities of the case. Postmaster Pfleger asserts that the amount now allowed him for clerk-hire is $500 less than it was ten years ago, notwithstanding the growth of the city and the increased business. The Register complains of the manifest injustice done South Bend by the General P. O. Department. No one certainly can blame Postmaster Pfleger for any want of attention.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has giver entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. E. Bourbonia. F. M. Barron, W. H. Bailey, E. J. Bryant, F. Baker, Joe. F. Browne, W. B. Berry, J. M. Boose, F. M. Bell, W. S. Bolton, R. Becerra, Jas. Barry, Jno. C. Armijo, W. Arnold, Edward Bentz, 8. G. Clements, M. J. Carroll, C. V’ Chelini, Jas. J. Conway, W. A Connor, C. Coughanowr, J. C. Concannon, W. Cleary, F. Dever, A. D. Dorsey, Jas. Drury, J. P. Delaney, Byron Eaton, E. J. Eager, Frank Ewing, R. E. Fleming,* Jos. Farrell, T. F. Flynn, James Falvey, Mark Fai vey, C. L. Fishburn, H. A Gramling, F. W. Gallagher, W. W. Gray, A. J. Golonski, H. A Hagan, T. D. Healy, M. T. Healy, A. Jones, A T. Jackson, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella, F. E. Kuhn, J. Kindle, A Kuntsman, J. C. Larkin, G. Metz, J. R. Marlett, G. E McErlain, A. Myer, F. X. Murphy, W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, C. J. McDermott, J. A McIntyre, H. W. Morse, Ed. McGorrisk, W. McEniry* W. McGorrisk, Jno. Nash, H. Noble, John B. O’Reilly, Jos.P. O’Neill, W. J. O’Connor, F. O’Rourke, E. C. Orrick, A. F. Zahm, E. A Otis, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, S. Pillars, 8. 8. Perley, L. Proctor, F. A. Quinn, W. E. Ruger, A. P. Schindler, J. E. Schalk, R. Schofield, W. Schofield, J. Solon, A Schiml, H. Steis, C. A. Tinley, E. J. Taggart, W. M. Thompson, G. S. Tracy, L Treon, C. B. Van Dusen, Frank Wheatley, F. Ward, J. E. Walsh, F. 8. Weber, J. A White, E D. Yrisarri, J.-V. Zettler.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. A. Browne, W. J. Byrne, W. F. Bacon, W. H. Barron, G. L. Castanedo, F. X. Campau, A J. Campau, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, W. J. Cavanaugh, J. L. Castillo, A. M. Chirhart, J. A Devine, M. Dolan, H. F. Devitt, J. E. Drendel, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, Ed. Fishel, Fred Fishel, J. TT Frendrick, R. French, F. C. Felix, J. Friedman, J. M. Flynn, H. Fisher, F. B. Farrley, N. F. Florman, L. G. Gibert, H. E. Gilbert, M. 8. Gooley, G. J. Grever, E. B. Gerlach, E. F. Gall, A A. Gall, P. G. Hoffman, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, F. G. Hurley, E. A. Howard, G. J. Haslam, J. L. Heffernan, John Halligan, W. E. Jeannot, J. M. Kelly, C. C. Kollars, O. Kempf, J. F. Kahmann, W. D. Keenan, Harry A Kitz, S. Lipman, F. C. Lund, Joe Livingston, J. T. McGordon, J. 8. McGrath, T. E. McGrath, F. McPhillips, 8. Murdock, C. Murdock, W. McCarthy, J. C. Ruppe, J. T. Neeson, N. J. Nelson, J. E. Orchard, J. P. O’Donnell, F. Orsinger, W. Pinkstaff, J. Powell, H. Porter, C. Porter, D. G- Paul, A L. Richmond, C. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, Fred Ryan, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, H. C. Snee, Geo. H. Schafer, E. J. Schmit, E. G. Tappan, D. G. Taylor, G. E. Tour-tillotte, A. T. Taggart, D. Thomas, M. J. Wilbur, P. J. Yrisarri, J. E. Zaehnle, Charles Ziegler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. T. Berthlet, Donn A. Piatt, R. P. Nash, E. A. OConnor, W. Welsh, O. P- Di}lon, F. J. Otis, J, J. McGrath, W- P. Devine
M. "E. Devitt, C. Metz, F. P. Nester, J. F. Nester,C. H. McGordon, D. L. McCawly, W. Prindiville, L. J. Young, J. H. Dwen-ger, R. P. Papin, J. A Frain, H. J. Ackerman, H. Pynes, P. P. Johnson, C. D. Brandom, J. Beall, G. Gibson, T. Ellis, J. A. Ruppe, C. 8. Milburn, J. L. Rose, G. Price, P. E. Campau, E. S. Chirhart, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, J. Kelly, A. P. Roberts, F. J. Coad, H. C. Dirksmeyre, L. P. Graham, A. Otis, J. Tong, M. F. Byrne, P. Gibson, C. Quinlan, D. Prindiville, C. Campau.
Class Honors.
Jos. Courtney, O. Kempf, L. Gibert, P. Yrisarri, A. Browne, J. Nelson, Jas. McGordon, W. Jeannot, F. Campau, W. O. Pinkstaff, H. Gilbert, Jos. Zalhule, Thos. Williams, Jas. Devine, Ed. Fenton, H. Hibbeler, 8. Lippman, F. C. Lund, J. Livingston, M. Dolan, F. Fishel, C. F. Porter, H. Metz, E. Howard, Jas. McGrath, Thos. McGrath, Jos. Warner, C. Warner, Ed. Fishel, Geo. Haslam. E. Orchard, A Richard, 8. Murdock, W. Freyermuth, Jos. O’Donnell, E. Gerlach, W. Bacon, J. Ruppe, F. Felix, M. Murphy, A. Gall, 8. Katz, John Halligan, A. Golonski, W. Browne, L. Calligari, J. Larkin, A. Morse, J. Schalk, A Schindler, Jas. Drury, C. Coughanowr, C. Roberts, G. Clements, A. Jackson, F. Murphy, W. Johnson, F. Martin, C. Murdock, F. Paquette, H. Steis, W. McEniry.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. A O’Connor, W. T. Berthlet, J. H. Dwenger, W. T. Prindiville, W. Welsh, J. F. Nester, Donn A. Piatt,' C. H, McGordon, F. P. Nester, C. Metz, R. V. Papin, F. I. Otis, J. J. McGrath, B.P. Powell, J. 8. Beall, J. A. Frain, H. J. Ackerman, P. P. Johnson, T. Ellis, J. A. Ruppe, O. P. Dillon, C. D. Bran-dom, G. Gibson, J. L. Rose, P. E. Campau, C. Campau, H. C Dirksmeyre, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, M. Y. Byrne, J. Tong’ P. Gibson, A. J. Otis, L. P. Graham, F. J. Coad, ,E. 8. Chirhart,’ A. P. Roberts, C. 8. Milburn, G. Price J. Kelly, H. Hynes.
List of Excellence.
Reading and Orthography-------q Grammar—E. Fenlon, D. Smith, 8. Hantz, F. Campau, A. Hagan, E. Bryant, F. Paquette, S. G. Clements, M. Anthony, G. Haslam, J. Hurley, E. Orchard; Geography and History—E. Fenlon, E. Howard; Arithmetic— W. Jeannot, A. Richard, E. Fenlon, P. Yrisarri, F. Orsinger, G. Clements, I. Treon, J. Nelson, C. Warner, J. Warner, J. McGordon, F. Farrelly, J. Schalk; Algebra—A. Brown, C. Kolars, E. Fishel, F. Weber; Latin—J. A. McIntyre; Greek—F. Murphy, F. Clarke.
O’Coimor & Co.,
CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS
Royal Eliarmacy, PRINCE ARTHUR’S LANDING, LIKE SUPERIOR, ONTARIO, CANAOA, Dealers in
Amethysts, Agates, Chlorastrolites, Catseyes, Thompsonites, Native Silver, and Copper
Specimens, Quartz, Dog-tooth Spar, Indian Bark Work, etc.
Persons ordering any of the above from a distance will have their orders carefully attended to.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
67
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—8125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department. \
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address'
Rev. T. E. WALSH, 0. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, AND
J- Hj W Hl L Y.
All Kinds of Engraving Doi».
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
St. Mary’s Academy.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTIJiG and SCULPTURE.
(Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,)
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic. and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large music-hall,jand twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, ana organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition.—A large musical library in French. German. English, and Italian. Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING, AND SCULPTURE
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life’and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Miss De La Barre, from Paris, a sculptress and artist of acknowledged superiority, has been engaged for three years as an addition to the regular corps of teachers in the School of Painting and Sculpture.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Gars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for eeate in the final NecUning Chair Bataa Can to the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KAN SAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the Eorth and South, and, to and, from Kansas Lands and, Colorado Health Resorts and Minings districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Oflce in the United States and Canada, or to
James Charlton, J. C. McMulux, General Passenger and Ticket Agent,	. Gen*l Manager.
210 Dearborn st, near cor. of Adams, Chicago.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address	.
.	J. F. EDWARDS.
Notes Dane, Indiana.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems, BY MAURICE F. EGAN. Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, $1, postpaid..
A HHrfiRR
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOU1HERN RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 14,1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.	.
2.25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. m.: Cleveland 2.30 p. m. Buffalo, 8.50 p. m.
1105 a. m., Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. m.; Cleveland 10.10 p. m.; Buffalo, 4 a. m.
9.12 p. m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m
12.16 p. m„ Special New York Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. in., Cleveland, 10.10 p. m Buffalo, 4 a. m.
6.21 p. in., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p. m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a. m.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a. m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3.35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m. -
5.05 a. m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.50 a. m., Chicago 8.20 a. m.
0.931. m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9.05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. m.; Chicago, 11.30 a. m.
116 p. m. Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.12. p. m.; Chesterton, 2.52 p. m.; Chicago, 4.40 p. m
4.50 p. m.,., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.38; Chesterton, 6.15 p. m.; Chicago, 8 p. m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.
EASTWARD.	2 MAIL.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Express.	8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Express.
Chicago	Leave Grand Crossing	   “ Miller’s	 “ Chesterton	 “ Otis	 u	7	35 a.m. 8	09 “ 9	10 “ 9	32 “ 9	47 “ 10	06 “ 10	08 “ 11	05 “ 1115 “ 1140 “ 5 25 p.m. 4 50 “ 10 10 a.ni.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. / 10 56 v 12 05 a.m. 12 32 “ 12 52 "	3 30 p.m.
					
					
		1102 “ 1120 “ 1122 “ 12 16 p.m.	7 32 “		
Laporte	    .Arrive Laporte	Leave South Bend	 Mishawaka	 “ Elkhart	Arrive Toledo	 “ Cleveland	 “ Buffalo	 “ New York	 “ Boston	 “					
			8 20 “ 9 12 “ 9 20 “ 9 45 “	1 20 “ 2 25 “ 2 35 “ 3 00 a.m. 9 50 “ 2 55 p.m. 8 15 “ 10 30 a.m. 2 40 p.m.	5 38	u 6 21	“
		12 50 “			6 45 “ 10 50 “ 2 00 a.m. 7 40 10 10 p.m.
		10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m. 9 45 “	7 30 “ 1 25 p.m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “		
					
					
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend. .	.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l. Manager. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
I