I;	*	'
Notre Dame Scholastic.
.Disce Quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 28, 1878.	Number 4.
A Lily.
[The following exquisite lines, which we find going the rounds of the’ Catholic press, were originally written by a nun for a young girl’s album.]	.
A maiden said to a lily, “I go to the dance to-night; Wilt thou nestle among my tresses, 0 lily, so pure and white? ”
But the lily answered: “0, maiden,
I should droop in the heat and glare, And die in thy shining ringlets;
Place the glowing carnation there.”
A bride saw the lily blooming:
“I go to the altar to-day;
In my bridal garland, sweet lily, r. _	I will twine thy pale, beautiful spray.”
“Why sadden thy bridal, lady,
I	By wearing my cold, white flowers?
Sweet roses and orange-blossoms
Should gladden thy joyous hours.” •
A mother wept o’er the lily: “In thy pallid beauty rare, Thou shalt lay on my dead child’s bosom, For surely thy place is there.”
“ Oh, mourning, sorrowful mother, Thou hast seen one blossom fade, On the shroud, on thy broken lily, Be a wreath of immortelles laid.”
A young girl whispered: “0, lily, Let me place thee on my breast, For the sweet Lord Jesus cometh
To-day in my heart to rest.” And the lily answered: “Yes, maiden, On thy heart l$t my blossoms be, to*	That my pure white petals may wither
■	Near the Lord of purity.”
;	The Office of the Blessed Sacrament.
St. Thomas of Aquin is not only the author of the Pange lingua but of the whole Office of the Blessed Sacrament, ,	• which he composed in 1262 or 1263. This hymn cannot now
< date back as far as 1260,—since the Feast of the Blessed J Sacrament was established two years later, and celebrated for the first time in the whole Church on the 19lh of June, 1264. The history of this Office we find in the French, and cannot resist the temptation to give it in English.
■	When Urban IV had decided upon instituting the Feast
of Corpus Christi, he wished that its office be composed by ijrtf the most learned and pious men. He ordered before him two of the greatest geniuses of the age, the angelic Thomas
and the seraphic Bonaventure. “ Brothers,” said he, “ I wish to establish throughout the whole Church the grandest and most touching solemnity: the festival of the Sacrament of love and mercy.” Immediately he made known his plan to the two monks, and ordered them to set to work. The humility of these men of God was astounded at the choice of the Pontiff; they resisted, but in vain. At a fixed time they were to submit their work to one who, better than any other, was capable of pronouncing judgment.
On the day fixed by Urban IV, Thomas and Bonaventure appeared before him, modesty in their appearance and distrust in their hearts. “Begin, Brother Thomas,” said the Pope.
The holy religious read first the antiphons of the different parts of the Office, the lessons and the responses, all taken from the Sacred Scriptures, and admirably selected Urban was silent; Bonaventure could not restrain a gesture of approbation, soon repressed through respect.
Thomas passed to the hymn of matins, Sacris Solemniis, and came to this beautiful strophe:
Panis angelicas fit panis hominum;	■
Dat panis ccelicus figuris terminum.
O res mirabilis ! manducat Dominum Pauper, servus, et humilis.
Tears came to the eyes of Bonaventure; the tearing of paper was heard, and the fragments fell to the ground.
What majesty in the opening of the hymn at Lauds:
Verbum supemum prodiens Nec patris linquens dexteram. Ad opus suum exiens Venit ad vita vesperam.
What faith, what sweetness in this verse:
O salutaris hostia!
Qua cceli pandis ostium ;	.
Bella premunt hostilia, Da robnr fer auxilium.
Qui vitam sine termino, Nobis donet in patria.
Brother Bonaventure could with difficulty restrain his rapture; other small pieces of paper fell at the feet of the Saint.
The reading of the Prose seemed to fix the attention of Urban. Himself a learned theologian, he found in the Lauda Sion a complete treatise of the highest and most sublime theology on the mystery of the day.
Thomas finished by the Pange lingua, the fourth and fifth verses of which were a resume of the Sacrament of the Eucharist. He ceased speaking; still they listened. Finally the Pope said:
“Now, Brother Bonaventure, it is your turn.”
The religious threw himself at the feet of the Pontiff, and cried out:
54
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“Most Holy Father, when I listened to Brother Thomas it seemed as if I heard the Holy Ghost He alone could have inspired such beautiful thoughts, revealed to Brother Thomas through a special grace of the Most High. Holy Father, I would have deemed it a sacrilege did I permit my feeble work to be placed beside such wonderful beauties. Behold what remains.” And the monk showed the Pope the pieces of paper that covered the floor.
The Pontiff admired the modesty of Bonaventure as-much as the genius of Thomas. Such were the grand figures of those middle ages, so often depreciated; such the saints of that divine Church which has civilized the world in causing the true light to shine before its eyes.
“ See what took place in the thirteenth century. Six hundred years have passed away, and the wonderful work of St. Thomas still adorns the Roman Breviary. Perpetuity belongs only to the works of God.”
The following are the names of the performers who took part in the representation of this drauft on the two different occasions upon which it was produced on the stage of
Washington Hall:
Lord Aubrey,
Thespians, Oct 12,1869. Judson A. Fox,
Columbians, Dec. 22,1873.
William Gavitt.
Aloysius, "	- J. C. Eisenmann, H.^CJJassidy.
Peter, the Poor Scholar, R. L. Akin, ’	’’ T. Watson,
Bill, the Blacksmith, Tom, the Drover, Jack, the Butcher, Joe, the Gardener, Jim, the Forester, Teddy, the Tinker, Landlord, Melancardios, Mysticus,
H. P. Morancy, P. Clarke, T. Dillon, L. Wilson, James Deehan, James Wilson, L. B. Logan, G. McAtkinson,
J. F. Wolfe.
P. G. Lilly.
F. C. St. Aubin.
J. S. Gregory.
L. B. Sanders.
W. Van’t Woud. G. W. Crummey. P. O'Sullivan.
J. B. Crummey. A. Horne.
The Enchanted Hostelry; or, The Seven TraveHers.
The Enchanted Hostelry.
_	PREFACE.	_
The “Enchanted Hostelry ” was written in the fall of the year 1869, at the request of Mr. Francis X. Derrick (since Sead), then Director of the Thespian Society at Notre Dame University. It was produced by the same Society on the eve of the festival of Very Rev. Edward Sorin, but not in such a manner as to satisfy the author, who was present. In the Umbrella Dance, which is one of the most effective accessories of the drama,’ ouly four umbrellas were used, thereby diminishing the grotesque appearance of the dance by more than half.* “ Mysticus ” was a black spirit, not a fiend in angelic form, as was intended, and he was not made to descend from above, but he simply walked in and out like the other characters. As so little in this drama depends on the declamation, and so much on stage effect and acting, it will be seen at ouce how these defi-cienciee must have marred the whole performance. The Columbians, in their Exhibition at the beginning of the Christmas holidays in 1873, did much better. They showed that it was quite possible to go through the figures of a quadrille correctly with eight open umbrellas, and the effect was pronounced splendid. The “ Mysticus ” of Mr. Alfred Horne was sylph-like and altogether satisfactory. The spirits in the temptation scene were excellent dancers also, and all the performers contributed to achieve a grand success. The drama was also produced in Valparaiso, Indiana, by the pupils of St. Paul’s School, under the direction of Mr. P. O’Sullivan, on the occasion of the celebration of St. Patrick’s Day, 1876. The school not being exclusively for either sex, young ladies were introduced as fiends in the temptation scene, -it is said with a very pleasing effect. .
For the due performance of this drama, great attention should be paid to the scenery and properties. “Aloysius ” snould be able to sing and play the guitar; “ Teddy ’’ also should be a good singer of the comic order. All the travellers, with the landlord, should practice the quadrille, with umbrellas, so as to need no “calling off.” The landlord should Ee a good jig-dancer, and the spirits for the various temptations should be trained in the schottische, varso-vienne, polka and waltz respectively. “Aubrey” and “ Melancardios ” should be good swordsmen, and practice their fencing scene diligently. As for the performance on the Jews’-harps, it may be any medley of simple tunes, played in unison. If these details, trivial as they may seem, be carefully attended to, and the scenery and costumes selected with judgment, this little play will not fail to be well received.
*In a comic opera, entitled the “Brook,” which made its appearance in the spring of 1877, an umbrella dance is introduced at the conclusion. The idea originating with the Enchanted Hostelry is there introduced with no further modification, except that the umbrellas are of various colors—scarlet, yellow, purple, etc., as they might be in the present play. The author hereby claims whatever merit there may have been in originating the idea.
A Mellow Dbama, in Three Acts.
Dramatis Personas:
Lord Aubrey,
Aloysius, his page, Peter, the Poor Scholar, ’ Bill, the Blacksmith, Tom, the Drover, Jack, the Butcher, }-The Seven Travellers. Joe, the Gardener, Jim, the Forester, Teddy, the Tinker, _ Landlord of the Hostelry.
Melancardios, the Enchanter.	.
Mysticus, Spirit of Unreality and Hallucination. Evil Spirits and Ghosts.
COSTUMES.
[Age of Louis Quinze.]
Lord Aubrey: Splendid crimson suit. Cap and feather. Sword, etc. Second dress: A brown habit of sackcloth. Hood and cord.
Aloysius: White and Gold. Cap and feather. Sword, etc.
Peter: Rusty Black suit. Formal cut. Satchel of Books.
Bill, the Blacksmith: Red and Black suit. Flowered vest.
Tom, the Drover: Drab Corduroy suit. Long whip. Top boots.
Jack, the Butcher: Light Blue and Silver suit.
Joe, the Gardener: Green and Flesh color. Large Bouquet.	’
Jim, the Forester: Olive Velveteen suit. Alpine hat and feather. Hunting horn.
Teddy, the Tinker: Dirty Rags. Kettle, etc.
All the travellers carry umbrellas. Teddy’s nearly worn out.
Landlord: Very corpulent. Red vest. Yellow breeches. No coat.	•
Melancardios : Black and Red robes. Wand. White hair and beard. Second dress: Purple Velvet suit. Cap and feather. Sword, etc.
Mysticus: Light gauzy drapery. Butterfly wings. Starry crown. Trident.
Spirits, as Sylphs in White and Gold; as Gnomes in Black and Gold; as Fiends in Red and Black, and as Parasites in Purple and Gold.
Ghosts in White sheets, with lighted tapers.
. PROPERTIES.
Eight umbrellas. Seven Jews’-harps. Purse. Satche of books. Pistol. Wallet containing Lord Aubrey’s second dregs, and a knotted discipline. Three swords. Offerings of fruit, flowers, money, and a royal crown. Guitar. Large barrel or hogshead. Thunder, lightning and rain.
PROLOGUE.
(Enter, before the curtain, Tom, the Drover, cracking his whip.)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	55
Good friends, we come in simple phrase, Our simple tale to tell, Our story is of former days When faith did not rebel
But looked with awe struck, wondering gaze On heaven, earth and hell.
The nineteenth century no more A place for these can find— These tales of horror that of yore Disturbed, yet pleased, the mind.
No cannibals infest our shore To prey upon their kind.
No vampires ply their ghastly trade, No spirits roam at will,—
Unless we deem the “rappings” made By more than earthly skill, Nor”do the words by these conveyed Our expectations fill.
Some room for skepticism there Is always to be found;
No more does superstition dare To tread on reason’s ground.
And yet there was enjoyment where These stories passed around I
When people, of a winter’s night, Would sit around the fire, And list with interest and fright To some grey-headed sire;
Nor ever flagged the strange delight, Nor did repeating tire.
So just for once lay reason by And deem our story true ;
To represent it we will try Condignly to your view, And if it entertain you, why ’Tis all we hope to do.
The Enchanted Hostelry; or, The Seven Travellers.
ACT I.
Scene I.
A Garden in front of Lord Aubrey’s Castle. (Lord Aubrey and Peter, walking.) Aub.—And so, my friend, thou wilt no longer stay ?
Thy sojourn has been short! Not half the sports And pastimes that our country-seat affords Have yet been undertaken. Yonder fish Amid the waters of the silv’ry lake Disport uncaught. Our noble hunting hawks Have not displayed their aptitude for game. Our hounds impatient in their kennel howl And clamor for the chase.
Peter—	Ah! not for me
These lordly recreations were designed. Thou knowest my ambition, noble friend— The aspirations of my inmost soul; And that my hopes can ne’er be realized Except by study, unremitting, hard And all-absorbing, till the feeble mind Refuses longer to support the strain; And then to seek relief as I have done In these few days of sweet converse with thee Is sheer necessity. But now restored To mental vigor, I must needs return To college walls as swiftly as I may;
A sacred call compels me.
Aub.—	I approve
Thy steady purpose, while I mourn thy loss. I too have known a scholar’s life and aim; The holy tonsure o’er my head has passed, And once I hoped that, consecrated priest, At sacrificial altar I might stand;
But it was not to be so.
Peter—	Wherefore not ?	•
Could worldly hopes in thee defeat the call ?
Aub.—I know not whether I be free from blame, And seldom speak of it. Be thou the judge: I had attained the rank of exorcist In minor orders, and my youthful heart
Was filled with heavenly thoughts alone—if earth Ever intruded, I but dreamed of those I would convert when ordination’s seal Was set upon my brow. As thus I lived There came a voice imperious from without— A voice I could not slight. Both God and man Enjoined, “ Obey thy widowed mother’s voice Calling for aid.” My father had been slain In battle for his country and his king; My elder brother too had giv’n his lite, And perished in the same disastrous fight; My widowed mother, lonely in her halls, Beleaguered and oppressed by cruel foes, Cried: “ Come to me, my last—my only son! ” How could I choose but go? My studious mind Was turned perforce to scenes of blood and strife; And many years had quickly passed away Ere I was free my studies to resume;
And then I found myself with blood-stained hands, Which, though ensanguined in a lawful war, Were scarcely meet to raise the Spotless Lamb j In sacrifice divine. And yet—and yet— I sigh for the seclusion of my youth!
Not all the splendors of a royal court
’ Which I have since beheld can vie with joys Sent to the heart from Heav’n!
Peter—	I feel’tis true;
Although my humble birth could never teach What earthly splendor is. And now, kind friend, I bid again farewell! with many thanks For princely hospitality.
Aub.—	Farewell,
Much shall I miss thy friendly company; But pray for me, and take this glittering trash (Offers purse.)
To make thy journey smooth.
Peter—	Nay, I must beg
You pardon me; for it is my delight
As a “ poor scholar,” to pursue my way And share the hospitality of those Whose offers coming from a slenderer store, Eind Providence will bless an hundredfold. More need I not than daily meat and drink, And these-the country-people gladly give. Why should I carry that for which, if known, Marauding men of blood might slay me? Thanks For kind intentions, but retain thy gold;
Thou knowest my refusal doth not spring	•
From proud ungraciousness.
Aub.—	Dear Peter, no;
Iwill not force my gold, my cares upon thee. Would that my heart were free from care as thine I But one care must be thine. Beyond the wood Through which thy journey lies, there stands a house, A hostelry, according to its sign.
The mountain pass leads by its very door. Thou canst not well avoid it, but beware I Quicken thy steps and hasten past it. Let No weakness tempt thee once to enter in E’en for an instant. ’Tis a den of thieves!
Peter—Pooh, pooh! dear friend, put by that anxious look, None care to tempt the penniless. Such snares As these are set for wealthier men than I.
Recall the Latin verse you learned at school:
'	“ Cantabit vacuus coram latrone viator.”
When robbers rage, an empty purse may grin. Aub.—’Tis true, if thieving were their worst design;
But crimes more horrid at their door are laid By popular report. Offences foul Beyond belief, at which the miud revolts. Peter, they’re cannibals!
Peter—	What! you’re jesting sure!
No cannibals exist in Christian lands!
Aub.—Upon my soul, I do not speak in jest.
More than suspected is th’ inhuman crime. And thus it came about: you must remember, Not many years ago our smiling land . Was all laid waste by famine. Cruel want Forced men to eat the garbage of the street, And some, by famine maddened, fed upon The bodies of their famished fellow-men.
56
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
O monstrous sustenance! And yet some lived,— Their fatal appetite, thus formed, increased Until no other food would please them. Such The evil power of habit! Worse and worse With every repetition of the sin -Becomes the sinning soul. No longer famine Or madness caused by famine they allege In palliation of the monstrous crime;
But simply habit—irresistible.
Peter—Well, wqU, I will be cautious. Even should They seektne scanty flesh that clothes these bones, My circumspection shall outwit them. But Surely these crimes have not been proven? Else Why doth not justice raise her powerful arm ?
Aub —Naught is yet certain; but I wait my time And proofs to overthrow th’accursed nest. Meanwhile, enchantment’s aid is used to lure Their victims and to shield their wicked deeds. Access is made too easy to the weak And difficult to those that would avenge.
Peter—Trust me! I’ll hurry by them! Now, farewell; Again farewell! I tear myself away, But I must go.
Aub.—	Then farewell, dearest friend;
God speed thee on thy journey. (Exit Peter). Yet my mind
Misgives me that some mischief is to come. But let me banish all such childish thoughts. I’ll to the hunt, and drive them from my heart.
Scene H.
The Hostelry.
(The Landlord and Melancardios.)
Landlord. I find suspicion points too strongly towards our hostelry, Melancardios. We no longer get any customers ; and we must soon decamp. And yet I hate to leave this situation. - It is the best I ever had. The road across the mountains passes close by our inn, and it is the only practicable pass for many miles. Even though travellers are warned against our designs, still necessity compels them to approach so near the house that they come within reach of yonr enchantments.
Melancardios Yes; and by the use of potent spells I have commanded the services of a spirit whose influence can attract from afar. This morning I made by oaths a pact with him; and he now tells me that ere night seven travellers shall be taken in our lures. O! ’tis a brave spirit! His evocation cost me tortures, but he is now obedient to my will, and ready to come at a sign from me.
Landlord. And might one see him, Melancardios?
Melancardios. Ah! canst thou nerve thyself to meet a spirit’s glance?
Landlord. Time was I trembled at the preternatural, but familiarity with thee hath made me callous.
Melancardios. Aye! and thy banquets, man, on human flesh would harden any heart. Darken the room then: shut out the genial light of day. Spirits such as I deal with are lovers of darkness. This is no common demon, though. (Landlord puts out lights. The stage is darkened Not from the dull and lumpish earth he rises. He hovers.) in the air around us and fills it with delusions. Seldom appears he in his proper form, but his -hallucinations cover the earth like a web. But prepare to see him. (Drawing a circle with his wand, and making passes in the air.) Mysticus, Spirit of Unreality, descend, appear!
(Mysticus descends from above.)
Landlord. Glorious! Never saw I a spirit like unto this!
Melancardios. Mysticus!
Mysticus. Speak, my lord; thy word is law!
Melancardios. Show us the spirits of the mighty dead. (Music—“ Dead March in Saul." A long procession of ghosts, single file, crosses the stage.)
Landlord (terrified). Enough! enough! I am ready to faint. Take them away! Take them away!
Melancardios. Ha! thou wert so familiar with my power! But I’ll relieve thee.
(Music changes to “Fisher's Hornpipe." The Landlord is compelled to dance. Pas de deux. Mysticus and Landlord. Landlord finally falls down in convulsions.
Music stops.)
Melancardios. What sayst thou now? Dost still boast of thy familiarity ?
Landlord. No ; ah, no! I knew not half tby power. Good Melancardios, spare me!
Melancardios. Withdraw then, Mysticus. (Mysticus disappears. Stage lightens.) Rise, my good friend, and never rashly tempt my power again.
Landlord. I knew not what I said. But, Melancardios, thy friendship unto me is sworn—secure ?
Melancardios. By all means! (Aside.) I need the fool’s assistance for awhile, and when I have done with him, I will feast upon his enormous carcass. (Aloud.) Well, shall we remain here longer and try the power of Mysticus ?
Landlord. But are we safe ?
Melancardios. From what impending danger ?
Landlord. The officers of justice are upon our track.
Melancardios. Pooh! pooh! We’ll eat them.
Landlord. Thou’rt bold!
Melancardios. Bold; but not rash! Depend on me, as I on Mysticus.
Landlord. I must perforce! (Aside.) And yet, methinks, the spirit of hallucination may deceive him as well as his victims. (Exeunt, severally!)
[End of Scene H, Act II.)
3. 3. Callanan.
Perhaps there is no other country in the world so prolific in bardic legends and inspiring themes for poetic fancy as Ireland. It has been happily called the “Cinderella of nations.” While poetry and the fine arts were flourishing in other countries, she was scourged and gagged by her usurping rulers, lest the indignant voice of her bards should burst forth to thrill her down-trodden children.
. A nation’s defeat or a nation’s glory sways the poet more than the soldier, for he yearns to sing of her while struggling against oppression, to sympathize in her woe, or rejoice in her fame. Ossian was the Homer of Ireland, and his wild legends of the heroic exploits of the ancient Fenians are yet preserved in mystic legends throughout the highlands of Erin.
When a price was set on the head of the Irish priest, he had to resort to the caves and mountains to celebrate his religious ceremonies. The ancient bard did'not fare better—he too had to fly to avoid the prosecuting edicts of English rulers. In some peasant cot or lowly cave he turned his cleairsach to some enraptured group of outlawed peasants and chieftains, who were seeking shelter from their tyrannical rulers. Ireland fell, but instead of being consoled in her desolation by the songs of her bards, she was crowned with ignorance and persecution. Her halls of learning were demolished or defiled by the soldiers of her invaders, who destroyed her bardic orders, burnt her historical records, and wrote her bloody history with the torch and the sword.
Thus it happened that the true poetry of Ireland was preserved in old manuscripts and legendary lore among the humblest of her children. But the aristocracy of Ireland were driven from their baronial halls, to find safety in her mountain fastnesses, or, in the expressive words of an old E iglish chronicler, “to h—1 or Connaught,” to be replaced by the scum of Sirongbow’s hordes and Cromwell’s murderers. Those wished to obliterate all records of their bloody reign and usurpation, but the spirit that has so long warred against them preserved the only national heritage left it, that is, the poetry of a nation’s wrongs-and sufferings. The national beauty and fertility of the country, the grandeur of its mountains, and the unsurpassed
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
57
loveliness of its beautiful rivers and fair women stirred a chord even in the hearts of her enemies.
Sir Walter Raleigh, while crushing her with his iron .heel, became imbued with the spirit of her sons, and sang of her beauty. Spenser borrowed the wild legends of Munster and stamped them with the gorgeous colorings of his “Fairie Queene”; and, making full allowance for his English prejudices, the prostrate state of the country is fully exemplified in his book entitled “View of the State of Ireland.”
In that Elizabethan age, the poetry and chivalry of Enge* land borrowed new lustre from the romantic. strains of Spenser, Raleigh, and the gifted Shakspeare, while poor Ireland, deluged in blood, writhing in the grasp of her relentless persecutor, was overrun with war, pestilence and famine. Her sanctuaries of learning and religion were razed to the ground, her philosophers, poets, and ministers hunted down like the wolves of the mountains. Had England been so persecuted by a merciless conqueror, she could never have produced a Shakspeare to immortalize her literature or her language, or a Sidney to emblazon her chivalry, or a Milton to sing of the war of angels. Still, the literature and poetry of Ireland struggled on through the blackest oppression that strove to crush out her history and her poetry. Cromwell’s unmerciful prescriptions of fire and sword followed, and what he left undone the penal laws tried to complete. Edmund Burke, speaking of this barbarous code, says:—“ It had a vicious perfection; it was a complete system—full of coherence and consistency— well digested and well disposed in all parts. It was a machine of wise and elaborate contrivance, and as well fitted for the oppression, impoverishment, and degradation of a people, and the debasement in them of human nature itself, as ever proceeded from the perverted ingenuity of man.”
It is thus that Ireland’s poetry and her history are to be found, not so much in her written records as in stray ballads and legends, and in the manuscripts of her banished monks. With this preface on the poetry of Ireland we now come to the subject of our present sketch.
Jeremiah Joseph Callanan was born in Cork in the year 1795. His parents, were of the Roman Catholic faith, and intended their son for the priesthood, educating him accordingly. He attended the best schools in Cork, and, after going through a preliminary course, was sent to Maynooth. Though of a religious turn, young Callanan had no vocation for the Church. He was of a restless, unsettled disposition, and felt within him a strong desire of acquiring military reputation.
*	It is hard to confine a poetic spirit to the mere details
. of the ordinary routine of life. While a schoolboy in Cork, he had acquired some reputation by writing for the local journals and current periodicals of the day. The poetic fire could not be controlled by college discipline, and the combat between his natural inclinations and a sense of duty preyed on his naturally delicate constitution. After two years in Maynooth, he quitted it and relinquished all his future prospects in the clerical profession.
In 1829 we find him an out pensioner of Trinity College, Dublin, where he was studying with the intention of going to the bar. He devoted much of his time while here to poetry, and contributed largely to the Dublin magazines and journals. After two years’ trial he also renounced his prospects of getting admitted to the legal profession, and < returned to Cork, where he got an appointment as tutor in Dr. Maginn’s school. Through Dr. Maginn’s introduction,
he became a contributor to Blackwood's Magazine. He also wrote for several periodicals. He was of a romantic turn, and spent most of his time rambling through the country, picking up the floating ballads and legends among the
j peasantry. Some of these he translated from the old : Gaelic language, and others he wove into his own composition. He frequently strolled along the coasts of Cork and Kerry, admiring the wild and magnificent scenery of that section of the country. The lakes of Killarney, Gou- ~ gaune Barra, and the rock-bound coasts of Clare, were his favorite resorts. In 1829 he joined an Irish family in Lisbon as tutor, but in the same year his frail body yielded to the restless, unquiet spirit, and he breathed his last ip the thirty-fourth year of his age.
As a poet, Callanan does not claim as high a rank as Mangan, Davis, or Walsh. Some of his translations are spirited and faithful. His original poems show a great deal of brilliancy and genius, while others are deficient in conception, design, and finish. But, then, we are not to judge him by men who lived to have their judgment matured and the sweet poesy of imagination pruned down by reason. He died before his genius was matured, yet leaving behind sufficient to entitle him to a proud place among the poets of Ireland. Had he lived a few years longer, what might he become? We are not to judge him by what he has left, but by what he might have produced had he arrived at the full noon of manhood.
Of all Callanan’s poems, there is not one so generally known or universally admired as his “ Gougaune Barra.”
The Lake of Gougaune Barra, i. e. the hollow or recess of Saint Finn Barr, in the rugged territory of Ibh-Laoghaire (the O’Leary county), in the west end of the county Cork, is the parent of the River Lee. Its waters embrace a small but verdant island, of about half an acre in extent, which approaches its eastern shore. The lake, as its name implies, is situated in a deep hollow, surrounded on every side save the east, where its superabundant waters are discharged by vast and almost perpendicular mountains, whose dark inverted shadows are gloomily reflected in its still waters beneath. The names of those mountains are: Dereen (the Little Oak Wood), where not a tree now remains; Madtagdy which signifies a county—a region—a map, perhaps so called from the prospect which it affords; Nad an uillar, the Eagle’s Nest, and Faoille na Gougane, i. e. the cliffs of Gougaune, with its steeps and frowning precipices, the home of a hundred echoes:—
There is a green island in Ione Gougaune Barra, Where Allua of song rushes forth as an arrow, In deep-valleyed Desmond. A thousand wild fountains Come down to that lake, from their home in the mountains. There grows the wild ash, and the time-stricken willow Looks chidingly down on the mirth of the billow;
As like some gay,child that sad monitor scorning, It lightly laughs back to the laugh of the morning.
And its zone of dark hills—O, to see them all brightening, When the tempest flings out its red banner of lightning, And the waters rush down, ’mid the thunder’s deep rattle, Take clans from the hills at the voice of the battle;
And brightly the fire-crested billows are gleaming, And wildly from Mullach the eagles are screaming, O, where is the dwelling in valley or highland
So meet for a bard as this lone little island ?
How oft when the summer sun rested on Clara, And lit the dark heath on the hills of Ivera, Have I sought thee, sweet spot from my home by the ocean,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
And trod all thy wilds with a minstrel’s devotion, And thought of thy bards, when assembling together, In the cleft of thy rocks, or the depths of thy heather, They fled from the Saxon’s dark bondage and slaughter, And waked their last song by the rush of thy water!
High songs of the lyre, O, how proud was the feeling, To think while alone through that solitude stealing, Though loftier minstrels green Erin can number, I only awoke your wild harp from its slumber, And mingled once more with the voice of those fountains The songs even echo forgot on her mountains;
And gleaned each gray legend, that darkly were sleeping Where the mist and the rain o’er their beauty were creeping!
Least bard of the hills ! were it mine to inherit The flre of thy harp, and the wing of thy spirit, With the wrongs which like thee to our country has bound me, Did your mantle of song fling its radiance around me, Still, still in those wilds might young Liberty rally, And send her strong shout over mountain and valley;
The star of the west might yet rise in its glory, And the land that was darkest be brightest in story.
I, too, shall be gone;—but my name shall be spoken When Erin awakes, and her fetters are broken ;
Some minstrel will come, in the summer eve’s gleaming, When freedom’s young light on his spirit is beaming, And bend o’er my grave with a tear of emotion, Where calm Avou-Buee seeks the kisses of ocean, Or plant a wild wreath, from the banks of that river, O’er the heart, and the harp, that are sleeping forever.
Scientific Notes.
—It is stated that upon the day of the recent solar eclipse the run of salmon in Fraser River, British Columbia, abruptly ceased, and has not since resumed.
—In the rivers of Canada, it is said, are varieties of fish originally from salt water, which can swim by sig-zag movements from the bottom to the top of a sheet of falling water fifty feet high.
’—A circular has been issued by Drs. Magnus and Pechuel-Loesche, of the Eihnological Museum of Berlin, requesting information as to the influence of colors on the uncivilized races of mankind.
—The late Father Secchi, the distinguished Jesuit, employed the last few months of his life in collecting materials for a work intended to form a part of the Archaeological and statistical monograph of Rome and the Roman Campagna proposed to be presented to the Paris Exhibition.
—Cinderellas will soon be numerous. A Vienna firm is now making a beautiful slipper of woven glass. The effect, when worn, is quite as novel as the material, for, with the motions of the foot, the various hues in the glass threads blend and intermingle in a most magical manner, especially under gas-light.
—Avalanches rarely fall when the sky is overcast. In winter, the St. Bernard monks urge travellers not to venture when the sky is clear. In clear weather the temperature falls, especially before sunrise, and then the filaments of ice which retain the snow on the sides of the mountain contract and snap, the mass begins to slide, and draws others in its train, for the slightest cause of movement, the faintest shock, may cause the fall of enormous avalanches. This is why guides insist on silence at critical points.
—The Gazetta d'Italia recounts a very novel terrestrial phenomenon. At Ortali, a small township containing a few houses, near Quarata, in the province of Arezzo, the earth has gradually fallen until it is now twelve or fifteen feet below the original level. In consequence of this strange freak of nature, which no one explains, the houses of the village have lost their equilibrium, and threaten to fall asunder. The authorities have ordered the inhabitants to remove to huts which have been set up in the fields,
and thither they have fled with their families. What seems still stranger is that about two hundred yards from Ortali the earth has risen instead of fallen off, and the rising of the ground has been visible at times.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Gustave Dore, the artist, it is said, will soon visit this country.
—Dr. Ward has resigned the position of editor of the Dublin Review, which he has filled for sixteen years.
—Anything will make a book now-a-days. Dr. Austin Flint, Sr., has published a volume on Weston’s walking.
—A man in Milan has devised a system of music phonography. He is already able to take down some airs, as sung, without a mistake.
—The first performance of a new symphony by the Russian composer Tschaikowski has taken place at Warsaw, directed by Herr Bilse. The work is entitled “ Francesa da Rimini.”
—The operatic managers of Germany, Austria, Russia, and France have of late done a losing business, and are about to combine for a reduction of the high pay of the principal singers.
—Edward Bond, the new Librarian of the British Museum, has served a long apprenticeship as keeper of the manuscripts. The officers of the museum have arduous duties and by no means high pay.
—The big picture of the Berlin Congress by Director Werner, painted to the order of the city of Berlin, is under way. The artist took separate sketches in water-color of all the members of the Congress.
—The residence of the great French poet and dramatist, Pierre Corneille, near Rouen, is being repaired. It is two hundred years old. A museum of articles owned by Corneille will be established in the house.
—The daughter of Gilbert Charles Stuart has, it is reported, placed her father’s papers and correspondence in the hands of a gentleman in Newport, who will prepare a biography of the great portrait-painter.
—Prof. Perry’s “Elements of Political Economy’’ is issued in a new and improved edition, dedicated to John Bascom. Prof. Perry aims especially at the instruction of young men just entering into college or business.
—The only yet remaining sister of Franz Schubert died on the 7th of August. Therese Schubert attained the age of 77, and of the nineteen there only remain two alive— Andreas and Hermann, the last one being a priest.
—The new College of Music at Cincinnati has already secured the services of the distinguished violinist Wil-helmj for two of the entertainments which it is to give this season under the direction of Theodore Thomas.
—The publisher of the Ave Maria has in press for early publication a new and enlarged edition of “Mixed Marriages,” by Rev. A. A. Lambing, author of “ The Orphan’s Friend,” “ Sunday-School Teacher’s Manual,” etc., etc. (/—Ireland has lost one of her most remarkable scholars, Baron MacGucken de Slane, member of the Academy of Inscriptions and Belles Lettres in Paris, and one of the greatest of modern Orientalists. He was born in Ireland, but lived the greater portion of his life in Paris.
—Professor Clifford, of Exeter, England, has joined the Catholic Church. He was educated at Cambridge, where he took high honors and was second wrangler of his year, . and a short time ago became professor of applied mathe-mathics and mechanics in University College, London.
—A charming story entitled “ Natalie,” is being published in the Ave Maria. The author, who writes sometimes under the nom deplume of Mathilde, sometimes as Milita of Java, is one of the most popular Catholic writers of the Netherlands. It is from the Dutch, and translated by Mrs. M. A. Stace.
—The Rev. Father Gadd, Secretary-to the Bishop of Liverpool, has just published a little book entitled, “A short account of the Apparitions and Miracles at Marpingen.” The work is an exceedingly interesting one, and a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
59
worthy companion to the author’s narrative of the miracles of Lourdes.
—The Messrs. Appleton in their New Handy-Volume Series have published a book on “The Great German Composers,” which gives an account of the lives and works of Bach, Handel, Gluck, Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Schumann, Franz, Chopin, Weber, Mendelssohn and Wagner. The price is only 30 cents.
—Herr von Wolzogen, the Wagner bibliographer, has just issued a new work, entitled “Die Sprache in Richard Wagner’s Dichtungen,” and a large octavo volume, entitled “ Wagner Katalog,” has just appeared at Offenbach, containing a chronological index of all the writings of and on Wagner, criticisms on his works, and biographical details.
—M. Wilhelmj, the distinguished violinist, said, upon his arrival the other day, that the person he most wished to see in America was Theodore Thomas. His wish was most pleasantly fulfilled by an interview of several hours with our American musician. M. Wilhelmj is an agreeable and cultivated man, with a stalwart figure, and a face German in contour and lighted by genial dark eyes.
—John Boyle O’Reilly has in press a volume of his poems under the title of “ Songs, Legends and Ballads.” Mr. O’Reilly is one of the most original and imaginative poets of the day. His “ Songs from the Southern Seas,” published some years ago, have given him a wide-spread reputation among men of culture. By the way, Mr. O’Reilly recently received from the Democratic State Convention of Massachusetts the nomination for State Auditor.
—The announcement is made that the young Hungarian violinist Edouard Remenyi, who has been creating such a furore in the Trocadero at Paris, has been engaged to appear in concerts in this country during the present season, and will compete for popular favor with Wilhelmj. He is known in Europe as “the Liszt of the violin,” and as solo violinist to the Emperor of Austria has been recognized as the greatest living interpreter of Hungary’s national music.	'
—Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley lies with her mother in a grave at Bournemouth, and near them is the grave of William Godwin. The inscription referring to Mrs. Godwin speaks of her as the author of “A Vindication of the Rights of Women,” and this -was strongly protested against by the ritualistic clergyman who now-controls the Bournemouth churchyard. The present Lady Shelley, a woman of fine intellectual tastes, managed to conquer his prejudices and had the record cut. This lady and her husband, Sir Percy Bysshe Shelley, live at Chelsea in a comfortable and unpretentious mansion within sight of the Thames. Lady Shelley is poetical, but her husband has no special literary proclivities.
' —A musical festival was celebrated at Stuttgart on the 16lh ult., the “inauguration ” of the monument to Schubert having taken place on that day. An occasional cantata was performed under the direction of Prof. Speidel, and in this work the leading choral societies of Vienna coalesced with those of Stuttgart. The festival terminated with a grand banquet, at which speeches in honor of the great composer of the nine symphonies and of the Lieder were delivered. During the dinner, telegrams were received from two surviving brothers of Schubert, who reside in Vienna, expressing their thanks for the recognition of the composer’s fame. By a curious coincidence, the last surviving sister of Franz Schubert, the widow of Herr Matbias Schneider, died at Vienna, in her 77th year, about the time of the celebration in Stuttgart.
—Karl Blind, according to an account in a German newspaper, has recently come into possession of some remarkable specimens, in prose and verse, of old Teutonic myths. They were discovered in Unst, the most northern of the Shetland Islands. They are said to be a living folk-lore tradition, and were given to Blind on account of his frequent English and German essay son kindred subjects. One of the myths refers to Odin in the World Tree; another is a Valkyr song of incantation, which in course of time has taken on an Arthurian character. Only two lines of this oft-mentioned song, to which Grimm alludes, have heretofore been known, and the song itself has been regarded as lost. It is believed several important points of the Teu
tonic mythology will be cleared up by the forthcoming publication.
—An interesting discovery has been made lately, according to Lieutenant Kitchener, by the French monks at Jerusalem. While digging for the foundation of a new school on the site of the Kal’at Julud, or “Goliath’s Castle,” they came upon four massive piers of ancient drafted masonry. A number of ruined vaults and masses of rubbish have been removed, and now the ancient work is uncovered almost down to the rock. Two of these piers were seen by Major Wilson, and were, in his opinion, of mediaeval date; but the lower portions now disclosed seem to be earlier. The French monks are quite confident that they have here discovered the foundations of the Tower of Psephinus. The stones are large, measuring 8ft. Gin. by 2ft. Gin. by 2ft. 4in. high, 7ft. 6in. by 2ft. Sin. by 2ft. 4in. high. Some are rather smaller; they are all drafted, the draft varying from three to four and a half inches. The joints are carefully finished and ihe courses are quite regular. The stones are fixed together by a thin layer of very hard cement. The bosses are left rough, and project in some cases as much as eight inches. The stones show no signs of being weatherworn.— London Weekly Register.
. Books and Periodicals. . •
A History of the United States of America. For the Use of Schools. By John G. Hassard. With an Introduction by the Rt. Rev. J. L. Spalding, D. D., Bishop of Peoria. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street. 1878.	•
The author of this school history of the United States, Mr. John J. Hassard, is well known to the public as an;. author and as a member of the editorial staff of the New ' York Tribune. He has accomplished his task in a thorough and able manner. In his treatment of the matter coming within the scope of his work he has displayed the utmost fairness and impartiality. It is a book that places the part played by the Catholic Church in the history of our country in a true light, and will tend to enkindle anew the patriotism of the young Catholic American. The introduction by the Rt. Rev. Dr. Spalding is an admirable production, and in it he well says: “The author’s reputation as a careful and thoughtful writer is of itself sufficient assurance that his task has been well performed.” It is an excellent book for parish schools.
—With the October number The Catholic World opens its twenty-eighth volume. That it may continue to see many and many a happy year will be the natural wish of all its readers. The present year is happily ushered in by a long and very beautiful poem of old English story, “King Oswy of Northumbria,” by Aubrey de Vere. Thia poet has addressed some of his choicest pieces first to an American audience—an honor that is fully appreciated by an ever-widening circle of admirers. Miss O’Meara’s story, “Pearl,” is fulfilling its promise; the two chapters this month, making us more intimately acquainted with. Captain Darvallon, and treating us to a dinner at “Captain” Jacke’s, are worthy of a master-hand in novel-writing. The other fiction, “Sister Mary Agnes” and “Nicodemus a Slave,” is very good also, though each story is somewhat sad in its ending. “ Plain Chant ” takes up in a thoroughly competent manner a subject that agitates musical circles very much just now. “The Aliscamps” is a delightful bit of wayside sketching, though it covers awe-inspiring ground. The Bollandist Acta Sanctorum is the concluding paper of a most interesting subject. The “ New Protestant Criticism of Christianity ” will be alarming to the eyes of Protestant Christians, who justly dread the rapid inroads of infidelity into their body. “ Recollections of Chambly ” has a sweet home flavor. “The Pretended Fall of Pope Liberius ” is a very important and able historical article. A criticism of Father Mazzella’s “ Treatise on Grace ” concludes the list, which is followed by a large number of literary criticisms. The verse is excellent as usual.
—“Very good, but rather too pointed,” as the fish said when it swallowed the bait.
60
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J}anu
Notre Dame, September 28, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per	Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Behavior in Church.
There is often a disposition among young people to show levity—a thoughtless levity it may be, and undoubtedly is in many cases—in church, by words and looks. Every slight incident is by some made an occasion of distraction— nay, even of a smile, or a titter, and a whisper to their neighbors.
All levity in church shows plainly that the one guilty of it has not a proper appreciation of the sanctity of the place, and he is therefore worthy of rebuke.
What is a church ?
It is the house of God, because it is a place of prayer. It is the state-room of God, where He listens to our petitions ; if, then, we would have these petitions granted, we ought to avoid even the semblance of levity in cur conduct, and deport ourselves with all the respect possible. But to Catholics, the church is a most holy place of prayer. It has been consecrated by the ministers of God to His use alone, and in it God dwells, residing day and night in the tabernacle of the altar. Believing in the real presence in the Blessed Sacrament, the Catholic ought, then, to behave with the same reverence and respect as he would were he to see Christ, no longer under the form and appearance of bread and wine, but in human form on the altar as on a throne of state.
Those who by word or look display levity of conduct in this holy place show that they are at least forgetful of the great mystery of the altar, and offer an insult alike to the believers assembled in the church and to God who dwells therein.
All persons, then, should show the utmost respect while in church. Their devotion should, in the first place, be interior, by having a will and an endeavor to please God. But it should at the same time be exterior, by a decent behavior, becoming at once to the place in which we kneel and the Person" in whose presence we are. Hence talking
and laughing, whispering and gazing about, dozing and inattention while services are going on, are entirely out of place. No one should enter a church in unbecoming clothes, and it is not befitting to walk precipitately or negligently, to spit upon the floor or pavement, or to make the least noise that might trouble the silence and recollection of the assembly.
We speak of the respect to be shown in church, not because we have noticed any breach of decorum this year, or heard such reported, but in order that all may know what is expected of them while in church, that they may govern themselves accordingly, and not through inadvertence, and more particularly through design, offend in this regard.
He shows himself a man of gentlemanly instincts who by his actions on all occasions gives no offence to the feelings of his neighbors; and he who would willingly not only wound the feelings of his neighbors while in church, but would insult God in His own house, in nowise displays the manners of a true gentleman.
The Pilgrimage.
The third annual pilgrimage of the members of St. Joseph’s Church, Mishawaka, to the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame, took place on the 22d, the Feast of the Seven Dolors. The pilgrimages have now become a permanent thing, and with each year the number of people attending them greatly increases. When the first pilgrimage was made there were some six hundred people assembled in the church; the year following the number was somewhere in the neighborhood of twelve or thirteen hundred, this year fully two thousand people visited the church during the day.
The pilgrims left Mishawaka in the morning; and arrived at Notre Dame in time for High Mass, at half-past ten o’clock. As they walked along, the Rosaiy was recited, and other prayers repeated. At Lowell large accessions to the ranks were made, while people might be seen in every direction wending their way to the church. Arriving at Notre Dame, the church was filled by devout people, and there was soon left but very little standing-room. Solemn High Mass was sung by Rev. Louis J. L’Etour-neau, assisted by Revs. Thomas E. Walsh and Christopher Kelly as deacon and subdeacon. The sermon was preached by Rev. A. B. Oechtering, who, taking his text from the Gospel of the Sunday, delivered a most eloquent and impressive sermon on the growing infidelity of the day. Rev. John Oechtering, of Laporte, was to have preached, but was prevented by sickness from attending. The Mass sung by the choir of St. Joseph’s Church was Kaim’s In Hon. S. Henriei. Kaim is one of the finest composers in the Cecilian ranks in Germany, and is pre-eminently liturgical in all the compositions we have heard from him. The Mass was sung by a well-balanced choir of fine voices with great skill and feeling, without organ accompaniment, and adds to the high and well-deserved reputation of this excellent choir and its leader, Mr. Winkeler. At the Offertory were sung Kornmuller’s “Recordare," and Schfitky’s “Emitte Spiritum” in seven parts.
After Mass the pilgrims visited the Chapel of Our Lady of the Angels, the Chapel of the Immaculate-Conception, the Mortuary Chapel in the cemetery of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, the Grotto of Lourdes, and other places. In the afternoon a sermon was preached, and Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was given. The music was
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
61
an “Ave Verum” by Rev. Father Witt, Mus. Doc. and President of the St. Cecilia Society of Germany, and a “ Tantum Ergo ” by Prof. Singenberger, President of the American branch of the Society. After the Benedic-' tion, the vast congregation took up the “ Grosser Gott, wir loben Eich,” and sung it with a will. While the voices -• of the congregation were uttering the words of praise, ‘	the great bell thundered forth, and the chime of twenty-
four bells pealed in joy. After this singing was over, the pilgrims returned home, reciting the Rosary as they went.
The pilgrims will ever receive a hearty welcome at Notre r	Dame.
Personal.
—Sheehan Monahan, of'76, is farming near Louisville, Ky —M. Skilling, M. D., is practicing his profession in Philadelphia.
—	H. D. Rodman, M. D., of ’68, is practicing medicine at New Haven, Ky.
—	Louis Eisenman (Commercial, of ’78,) is keeping bo. ks in Louisville, Ky.
—	Jacob Eisenman, of ’70, has a large wholesale house in Louisville, Ky.
—	Mr. P. L. Garrity, of Chicago, was among the visitors of the past week.
—	Thomas Quinn (Commercial, of ’77,) is keeping books in Philadelphia, Pa.
—	T. J. Cochrane (Commercial, of ’77,) is in the cigar business in Chicago, Ill.
—	H. Neumark (Commercial, of ’78,) is with Taylor, Kilpatrick & Co., Cleveland, Ohio.
f -	—James Crummey (Commercial, of ’73,) and wife, nee
Miss Riopelle, are spending the autumn at Oconomowoc, Wis.
—	T. A. Logan and L. D. Murphy, of ’77, after graduating in law at Ann Arbor, Mich., have started in business at Pinckneyville, Ill.
—	Dr. John Cassidy, of ’64, still remains attending physician at Notre Dame. Dr. Cassidy resides at South Bend, where he has built up a large and lucrative practice.
—	Capt. A. E. Woodson, U. S. A., of the 5th U. S. Cavalry, now stationed at Fort McKenney, Wyoming Ter., visited Notre Dame on the 23d. He was accompanied by his wife and son. The son will remain at Notre Dame.
—John Flaherty (Commercial, of ’75,) is in the carpet department at the West-side store of Carson, Pierre & Co., corner of Peoria and Madison Sts., Chicago. He is also a member of the Union Catholic Library Association of Chicago.
—In January, 1868, our editorial corps, consisting of a large number of students, took charge of The Scholastic, three of the corps taking turns in editing the paper. This arrangement was found to be inconvenient, ana was discon-i	tinued the next scholastic year. We have made inquiries
concerning the different members, with the following result. W. T. Johnson is practicing law at Sedalia, Mo. He at one time held the office of Probate Judge. John Fitz-harris is pastor of St. Joseph’s Church, New York city, v	Of George Dixon we can learn but very little. We are
•	told, however, that be is living in Cincinnati, Ohio. John
Rogers is practicing law in Pittsburgh, Pa. Joseph D. Murphy is proof-reader on one of the Philadelphia papers; ouf~Trrfbrmant is not certain, but he thinks it is the Times. H. C. Allen is dealing in drugs at Clinton, Mo. W. R. Spalding is in business at Lebanon, Ky. Of B. H. Thomas we can learn nothing. H. B. Keeler is in the real estate business at St. Mary’s, Kansas. James McBride is '	practicing law at Grand Rapids, where for several years he
held a judicial position. James F. Edwards is teaching at Notre Dame. Thomas J. Ewing is now living at Lancas-ter7'Ohio?'"For a year or two he was editor of the Columbus, Ohio, Sunday Herald. We can learn very little of r	James W. Watts. He is living in some part of Louisiana.
John C. Keveny is now a member of the Society of Jesus
He has lately returned from Europe, where he had been prosecuting his studies, and is now stationed at St. John’s College, Fordham, N. Y. James A. O’Reilly is practicing law at Reading, Pa., where he has a large and growing practice. Stacy B. Hibben has lately removed from Albion, N. Y., to Chicago. A. J. O’Reilly is freight agent for a railroad in Chicago. James Cunnea is banking at Morris, Ill. Of M. C. Peterson, all that we can learn is that he is living in Chicago. John Gibbons has a large law practice at Keokuk, Iowa. He is the Democratic candidate for Attorney-General of the State. Thomas F. O’Mahony is teaching in the High School in Chicago. Roger A. Brown is in Philadelphia. Dennis A. Clarke is manager of the Catholic Columbian, at Columbus, Ohio. Natnanial S. Wood is in business at Lafayette, Ind. Francis Guthrie became a member of the Congregationof" the Holy Cross. He is now dead. William R McLain is practicing law at Henderson, Ky. A. M. Owen is a prominent physician at Evansville, Ky. He is a professor in the medical college in that city. Of A. B. White we can learn < nly that he resides somewhere in Illinois. If our information is in any way incorrect we will be pleased to make the proper correction on receiving information thereof.
Obituary. , (
BRO. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.
On Thursday last, the daily papers chronicled the demise of this excellent religious at New Orleans, where he fell a victim to the yellow fever while at his post of duty at St. Vincent’s Home for boys, on Bienville Street This will, we know, be sad news to the boys of ’75-’76, who had the good fortune to be placed under Bro. Cyprian’s care while he was prefect at Notre Dame, but it should also be a consolation to them and all his friends to know that their amiable friend died like a hero at the post of duty, and that he takes his place on the “Roll of Honor” with the many others that have fallen in the same cause,—the devoted priests and Sisters, the Howards, the doctors and other friends of humanity and charity at Vicksburg, Memphis, New Orleans, and other places, who have laid down their lives in the noble cause of charity.
Bro. Cyprian’s name in the world was Thomas Flanigan. He was a native of the city of Dublin, Ireland, where for a number of years previous to his joining the Congregation of the Holy Cross at Notre Dame he had _ charge of one of the principal religious Confraternities attached to St. Francis Xavier’s Church, Gardiner street, Dublin. There, as here and at New Orleans, his amiable manners and unassuming piety attracted all hearts towards him, and on his departure for Notre Dame he was presented by the members of the Confraternity with a touching address in which they expressed in a beautiful way their feelings of regret at his departure from their midst He arrived at Notre Dame in 1872, where he resided until his transfer to New Orleans two years ago.
Bro. Cyprian is dead; at the early age of twenty-nine, and in the fifth year of his religious life, he has gone to receive the reward of a good life. We have had no particulars of his death other than that conveyed by the telegram, that he died after five days’ illness. In simple justice to his memory we may say of him with the poet:
“ A soul more spotless never wept a tear, A heart more tender, open and sincere, A band, more ready favors to bestow, By friends regretted, and without a foe; How prized in life by those who knew him well, How wept in death the orphans’ tears can tell.”
Requiescat in pace.
—The Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary at the Manual Labor School was reorganized on Wednesday, the 24th, and now numbers about twenty-five members. Very Rev. Father Granger and several other priests, and a number of the Brothers, were present at the meeting, which was quite an interesting one. After the opening prayer and singing of a hymn the business of the meeting was despatched. Essays were read by Masters A. F. Spangler, D. Clune, and T. O’Hara.
62
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—The Minims have a number of velocipedes.
—There were quite a large number of pilgrims to Notre Dame last Sunday.
—The sermon of Rev. A. B. Oechtering last Sunday was worthy of great praise.
—The boys are all getting along well. There are few cases of homesickness.	.
—A new room is being prepared for the exhibition of the mineralogical specimens.
—The Philopatrians have now fully reorganized. A full . report will be given next week.
—The religious society in the Senior department will be reorganized to-morrow evening.
—By mistake the name of C. P. Van Mourick was omitted last week from the Junior Roll of Honor.
—On the 21st the Minims made an excursion to St. Angela’s Island. Chub-fishing was very lively.
—Vespers to-morrow are of St. Michael the Archangel, page 196 of the vesperal. In the morning the Missa Par-vulorum will be sung.
—Master Willie Devitt, the youthful fifer of the Junior Department, has entertained the boys during the past week with lively music.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic has resumed its weekly visits to our sanctum. It is thrice welcome, for it is like a sunbeam to us.—Northwestern Chronicle.
—Racket is becoming quite a favorite game with the | Juniors. Last year two boys claimed the championship, and were generally conceded to be. What two will claim it this year ?
—The St Cecilians will give the “Hidden Gem” on the 13th. This play was written by the late Cardinal Wiseman, and was played for the first time in the United States at Notre Dame.	■
i	—The Mutual Baseball Club defeated the Atlantic? on
•' the 22d by the score of 7 to 3, being the best game played at the College this season. The Mutuals have so far won every game they have played.	•
—A game of foot-ball was played on the 22d between t h* , Quicksteps and a picked nine of the Juniors under K Scanlan. At the end of the fourth inning the scoie stood 4 to 2 in favor of the Quicksteps.
—The monthly Bulletins for September will be made out on Wednesday next. The Rev. Director of Studies desires, asks, intreats, nay, even supplicates, the members of the Faculty to be on hand in proper time.
—The game of baseball between the “whites” and “reds” of the Junior Department was postponed on account of rain last Wednesday. The apples that they were to play for were divided between all the boys.
—Captain A. E. Woodson, of the 5th Cavalry, U. S. A., accompanied by his wife, arrived here on the.23d inst., and placed his son in the Minim Department. He is stationed at present at Fort McKenny, Wyoming Territory.
—Mr. Jacob Wile and family, of Laporte, Ind., have presented the Lemonnier Circulating Library with twenty-six . volumes of the English Cyclopaedia, in memory of his ' friend the late Rev. A.. Lemonnier, after whom the Library is named. *
—Bro. Alexander has been elected Director of the Nim-.rods this year. They took an excursion to the St. Joe / Farm last Wednesday. J. Sampson, one of the team, arrived last week from his home at Trenton, New Jersey. He brought a splendid setter with him.
t —Willie Devitt, a Junior, only thirteen years of age, plays the flute exceedingly well. It is amusing to visit the Junior play-hall on a recreation day and see the youthful flute-player discoursing sweet music, and a number of his companions coming down on the light fantastic.
—The third regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-/ mathean Association was held on the 24th of September. ’ J. F. Mug, H. F. Grever, E. Piekenbrock and J. Schuell
were elected members. Messrs. Zahm, Murphy, Gibbons, and Bloom read essays and delivered declamations.
—The Minims have a very active baseball secretary. When the club does not play at all their ever-awake secretary imagines they do, ana sends in the report to The Scholastic. But the most curious thing about it is that he always imagines that the Minims make the most tallies.
—The Scholastic Press Club will be reorganized next Wednesday. After the organization, the members are invited to attend a lunch at which oysters will be furnished. The lunch will be given by the Rev. Director of Studies, who takes great interest in The Scholastic and all writers therefor.
—The report of a game of baseball in The Scholastic last week, in which the Juniors were defeated by the Minims by a score of 4 to 2, is incorrect. The Juniors had to quit at the end of the second inning to enable several of their players to meet engagements with their regular club, iwho were to play that afternoon.
• —“The Minim Department has its quota of forty students. Thirty members were formely considered the average number, but owing to the high reputation and good management of the department of late years the number has increased notwithstanding the financially depressed state of the times.” So writes a Junior correspondent.
—On being called up at an Early Hour to see the Planet Mercury.
Hermes, if true the records that we keep, Put Argus, with his hundred ej’es, to sleep. He’s changed his tactics since those days of yore, And wakes the boys up now at half-past four.
—The St. Aloysius Philodemic Society reorganized Tuesday, Sept. 17th. The following are the officers for the ensuing session: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President; J. Coleman. Vice-President; M. J. McCue, Recording Secretary; W. J. Murphy, Corresponding Secretary; J. P. Quinn, , Treasurer; A. Hertzog and J. J. Quinn, Censors.
I —The fat-boys’ race that came off last year was a tie. 0‘ e of the contestants is now a Senior, while the other still n mams in the Junior department. Would it not be wi ll if they were to meet again on St. Edward’s Day, and decide which is the fleetest of foot? The Junior says he •rahud thirty-five pounds within three months, and don’t believe in anti-fat medicine.
—The first regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Sept. 18th. The following < fiiceis were elected: Prof. J. F. Edwards, President; Prof. J A. Lyons, Honorary President; Prof. A. J. Stace, Dramatic Reader; Bro. Theodore, Promoter; S. T. Spalding, Vice-President; S. K. Devries, Corresponding Secretary; G. S. Wallers Recording Secretary; B. J. Claggett, Treasurer; W. McGorisk, 1st Critic; A. M. Keenan, 2d Critic; Jno. Stewart, 1st Censor; Jno. English, 2d Censor.
—The Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary was reorganized last Sunday evening. The following are the officers for the ensuing year: President, Rev. T. E. Walsh; Vice-Presidents, Geo. Donnelly and J. A. Gibbons; Corresponding Secretary, K. L. Scanlan, Recording Secretary, Frank T. McGrath; Treasurer, W.’Jones; Censor Frank Clarke; Organist, Ed. Walter; Sergeant-at-arms, John Nelson; Standard-bearer, Frank Weizert. Bro. Leander has consented to act as Promoter.
—That convention of Catholic editors is always going to be held. The Mirror keeps talking of it as always about to be. Though the New York Tablet editor ruled all college papers out of the convention when it should be held, it seems to us that the only practical promoter of the idea is a college paper—The Notre Dame Scholastic. Next January at its “carving of a turkey ” will be the time and place for those who favor the convention to meet, and go to work to decide what the Irish people are to be taught. The other papers always say “Let the convention be held.” The Scholastic said once and repeats it, “Come to the carving.” If Baltimore won’t call the great men to strengthen their brains by enjoying its oysters, let them hear the call of “ Come to Notre Dame for the turkey.” But the passes—that’s the sticking point. If Tur Scholastic will secure these it can put on another turkey or two.—I. C. B. U. Journal.	.	.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
63
Roll of Honor.
SENIOB DEPARTMENT.
’ W. H. Arnold, J. F. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, J. Brice, A. J. Burger, J. Berteling, M. J. Burns, T. M. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, A. B. Cougar, G. P. Cassidy, W. H. Connolly, E. E. Collins, W. H. Carpenter, W. H. Claggett, C. J. Clarke, C. E. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, D. Donohue, L. J. Evers, J. R. English, J. Eberhart, A. J. Hertzog, M. J. Hogan, J. C. Herrmann, J. Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, J. F. Krost, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, A. A. Lent, P. B. Larkin, M. Laughlin, W. J. Murphy, W. B. McGorisk, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, W. N. McGee, J. J McErlain, R. P. Mayer, H. W. Nevans, R. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, S. S. PeMey, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, O. P. Rettig, R. Russell, J. J. Shugrue, T. 8. Summers, J. Buchanan, R. D. Stewart, G. 8. Sugg, T. W. Simms, C. L. Stuckey, J. Scheiber, J. Sleuzak, P. Shea, S. P. Terry, P. H. Vogle, E. A. Walters, W. A. Widdicombe, F. X. Wall, F. Williams, E. Ward, C. Mueller, T. Hale, J. Finneran.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. J. Burns, J. M. Boose, F. Becker, C. J. Brinkman, F. W. Bloom, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, G. C. Castanedo, G. H. Donnelly, O. C. Eigholz, R. French, H. J. Fenner, J. A. Gibbons, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, J. L. Halle, J. Kurz, J. A. Lumley, J. L. Morgan, J.N. Osher, E. Piekenbrock, F. T. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A?P. Perley, A. P. Reidy, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, F. C. Weisert, R. B. Williams, E. 8. Walter, A. F. Zahm, H. E. Canoil, A. A. Caren, T. F. Clarke, W. J. McCarthy, H. G. Niles, J. M. Schneider, E. G. Sugg, J. W. Eisenhauer, C. F. Fogarty, H. M. Haerly, A. S. Manning, J. A. O’Donnell, A. J. Rock, F. C. Sheid, C. P. Van Mourick, E. C. Cleary, G. A. Orr.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	’
J. J. Gordon, A. M. Coghlin, W. A. McDevitt, W. L. Coghlin, ’ C. H. McGrath, P. F. Brady, C. L. Garrick, P. S. Fitzgerald, J. A. Crowe, H. W. Bachmann, G. Woodson. C. B. Crowe, J. S. McGrath, A. H. Chirhart, N. P. Nelson, H. C. McDonald, A. Hanrath, C. Long, W. Zimmerman, L. J. Young, W. V. O. Mal, ley, G. C. Esmer, A. H. Schumickle, J. Williams, E. Howard, J. Chaves, E. S. Chirhart, J. 8. Inderrieden, C. J. Welty, H. C. Snee, J. 8. Garrity, F. I. Garrity, F. H. Parsons.
Class Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
W. Connolly. H. W. Nevans, R. O'Brien, M. T. Bums, P. J. Hagan, B. J. Claggett, W. Carpenter, L. N. Proctor, J. Krost, J. R. Kelly, T. J. Byrnes, J. G. Baker, P. H. Vogel, J. McErlain, W. McGee, C. Walsh, J. J, Shugrue, W. MeGorrisk, W. Arnold, M. McEniry, F. Williams, K. L. Scanlan, J. Kurz, J. Nelson, B. Casey, J. Brady, E. Ewell, E. Murphy, J. Seeger. A. Mergen-theim, J. Osner, F. Phillips, A. Zahm, J. Scanlan, R. French, J. W. Guthrie, J. Boose, H. Niles, 0. Eigholz, D. Reidy. J. Kennedy, J. Schneider, R. Williams, J. L. Morgan, C. Rietz, F. Glade, E. Gallagher, F. Weisert, J. Gibbons, H. Fenner, G. Schnull, H. Canoil, A. Caren, P. Perley, W. D. Cannon, E. Fogarty, J. Mug, F. C. Sheid, C. Van Mourick.

—Our thanks are due to Miss Marion Faxon of Chicago, post-graduate, who arrived laden with the most exquisite floral offerings, which added much to the decoration of the chapels on the occasion of the blessing of the statue of Our Lady of Consolation mentioned in another place.
. —The letters received during vacation by Mother Superior and the teachers from the pupils were most gratifying, both by sentiments expressed and evidence shown that the writers had carefully attended to the beautiful accomplishment of writing a good letter.
—During vacation, plain-sewing and dress-making and a well defined course of reading received particular attention, and the pupils passed many a pleasant hour under the shade of leafy bowers with their work, while one would read aloud some entertaining book. We saw a dress made by Miss Gordon, among other articles, which showed taste and neatness—all sewed by hand.
. —Sunday, the 22d, the Festival of the Seven Dolors (or
Sorrows) of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the special Feast of the Order of the Sisters of Holy Cross, was duly celebrated. Solemn High Mass was sung by Rev. Father Shortis; deacon, Rev. Father Hudson; subdeacon, Rev. Father Saulnier. The sermon delivered by Rev. Father Hudson was most touching; he developed one after the'other the extent of those sufferings mentioned in the Gospel.
—Visitors during the week were: Mr. Thomas, of Valparaiso, Ind.; Captain Hambleton, of Mound City, Ill.; Mrs. Cavenor, Chicago; Mrs. English and Mrs. Jones, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. Bowes, Baltimore; Mr.Leonard, Beloit; Mr. Freeman, Battle Creek, Mich.; Rev. J. P. Gloden, Berwick, Ohio; Rev. Father Adams and Mr. Adams, Brooklyn, N. Y; Rev. Father McLaughlin, Clinton, Iowa; Rev. Father O’Connor, Clinton, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. Schuman, Lima, Ohio; Mrs. Haines, Goshen; Mrs. R. Schwass, Goshen, Ind; Mr. Robert Whitton, Mrs. Whitton, Toulon, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Miller, Miss Miller, Somerset, Pa; Mr. and Mrs. Burkhart, Mr. J. Mull, St Joseph’s Co., Ind.; Mrs. W. H. Myers, Columbus, If. Y.; Master, Myers, Columbus, N. Y.; Mrs. Cleary, Mrs. Cartwright, Mr. Bennet, Mrs. Clarke and Miss-M. Faxon, Chicago, III.; Mrs. Roopp, Ohio; Rev. J. Cox, Richmond, Ill.; Rev. P. Beaudon, St. Viateur’s College, Bourbonnais; Rev. M. J. Massfile, O. S. V., St. Viateur’s College, Kankakee, Ill.; Mr. Beckelmann, Goshen, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Orr, Steubenville, Ohio; Mrs. Papin and daughters, St Louis; Rev.Father Veniard,Lowell,Ind.; Miss H.Miller, Akron, O.; Mrs. Johnson, Mrs. W. H. Lehmer; Mr. and Mrs. McCarty, Huntington; Mrs. W.H. Bruce, Philadelphia; Mrs. C. Fassett; Mrs. P. L. Garrity, Chicago; Rev. Father Robinson, Lowell, Ind.
—The announcement of the death of Mrs. John F. Fin-erty has already been anticipated by the statement that her recovery was impossible. She died at half-past 1 o’clock on yesterday afternoon at her residence, at No. 33 Pearson street. Although she had not been in the enjoyment of perfect health for some weeks it was not until Monday last that she was taken seriously ill. On Tuesday morning she became unconscious, and remained in that condition until-the time of her death. Disease had secured so strong a hold that medical skill was baffled in its attempt to dislodge it. Mr. and Mrs. Finerty, nee Alice Radin, were married on the 30th of last December, and for several months boarded at the Matteson House. Early in the summer they removed to No. 33 Pearson street, and began housekeeping. Their surroundings were exceptionally pleasant, and warranted the expectation of a happy life. The shadow of death has fallen upon the threshold and transformed the pleasant home into a house of gloom. Mrs. Finerty was born in Chicago twenty-seven years ago. Her childhood and girlhood were passed here, every added year adding new friends and tightening the old. In 1871 she was graduated at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind., and brought back with her from her convent home the womanly grace, the strong reserve, the charitable heart, and the modest mind with which this noted school has adorned so many of its pupils. In his great distress Mr. Finerty will have the sincere sympathy of his professional brethren and friends; the virtues of his wife, by which she will be long remembered, will prove for him a better consolation than others’ words. The funeral will take place at 10 o’clock to-morrow morning, from the residence to the Cathedral of the Holy Name, and thence by carriages to Calvary Cemetery—Chicago Times of Sept. 20.
—The blessing of a statue of Our Lady of Consolation, brought by Mother Superior from Luxemburg about two years ago, was the occasion of a very interesting ceremony in the convent chapel. Very Rev. Father General presided, assisted by Very Rev. Fathers Granger and Corby. Among the Rev. clergy were several originally from Luxemburg, and the sanctuary was filled with priests and seminarians. The Ave Maris Stella being sung, Rev. Father J. P. Gloden, of Carey, Ohio, blessed the statue. Very Rev. Father Corby made a few remarks on the devotion to the Holy Mother of God, and the proper respect and relative honor due to all religious symbols, marking the great distinction between the adoration and veneration given respectively to God and the Blessed Virgin. The procession then formed in the following order: Crossbearer; Society of the Holy Angels; Rosary Sodality;
64
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Children of Mary and other pupils, all carrying appropriate banners. Then the statue, borne on a tastefully decorated stand and carried by Misses Galen, M. Casey, M. Ussel-man, and H. Hearsey; next came the reverend clergy in surplices and stoles, visitors, ladies, the choir, postulants, novices and the professed, all bearing lighted candles. The Litany of Loretto was sung in two choirs while the procession wound round the avenues and parterres near the Academy and along the bank of St Joseph’s River. Passing near Mount Carmel, the Magnificat was chaunted, and here the long procession halted and opened the lines; the clergy and those bearing the statue passed through to the small sanctuary of Loretto, and the statue was deposited at the foot of the altar. Very Rev. Father General gave the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. Then burst forth the glorious song of the Church, always ancient, always new, 0 Salutaris Hostia; all joined in its grand, prayerful tones, and amid blazing lights the incense curled aloft, symbolical of the prayers ascending from hearts filled with love and gratitude to God, while all heads bowed in reverence. Many were present who had often joined the immense processions of their native land in honor of the Protectress of Luxemburg, the Mother who ever since the 16th century has given so many proofs of her watchful care over that city, guarding it from pestilence and the arms of its enemies. We canpot express their happiness that devotion is the same in every country; wherever Jesus, is known and adored, there His Mother is honored, and all generations call her blessed. The history connected with the original statue of Our Lady of Luxemburg has appeared in the Are Maria, and the miraculous aid rendered to the inhabitants of the city and Grand Duchy of Luxemburg through many centuries up to our own times, is one of the undisputed facts of history.
Obituary.
Thursday evening Mother Superior received a telegram from Chicago announcing the almost sudden death of Mrs. John F. Finerty. Monday she was well, and Thursday, the 19th, at half-past one, she expired. The sad news moved all hearts to prayer, that consoling tie which binds the faithful even under apparent separation; for the grave cannot separate the living soul from that great bond, the “ Communion of Saints,” and our sorrow is not bereft of hope. Mrs. Finerty, nee Alice Radin, was one of our beloved pupils, and passed through the Academic Course. She graduated in 1871. Her memory will ever be endeared to all her teachers, whose esteem was gained by her talents, great amiability and sweet simplicity of character, and her classmates will cherish the recollection of her good example, even temper, and reserved charity of speech. Married to Mr. J. Finerty on the 30th of December last, she had before her the prospect of a happy home, a field for her many virtues. But God in His divine wisdom called her to her everlasting home to enjoy the realization of her ardent faith, the fruition of her hope, and the bliss of loving her Redeemer forever. While our best sympathy is with her bereaved friends, we cannot but rejoice that “our Alice” is among the bright band of “Children of Mary ” who when on earth fully appreciated the “ end of their creation,” and consequently enjoy their Creator for eternity. Requietcat in pace.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE. honorably mentioned in the Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk. 1st Senior Class—Misses Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen Keenan, Jessie Grover.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Anna Cartright, Emma Garrish, Henrietta Rosing, Lucie Chilton, Adella Geiser, Annie McGrath.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Minna Loeber, Mary Mullen, Alma Moe, Mary Fitzgerald, Marie Dallas.
Junior Prep. Class—Misses Julia Butts, Elise Dallas, Juiia Wells, Catharine Campbell.
ERENCH
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Clara Silverthorn, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath.	-
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Galen, Henrietta Rosing, Marie Dallas, Aurelia Mulhall.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Jessie Grover, Grace Glasser, Mary Brown, Emma Shaw, Lucie Chilton.
3d Class—Misses Theresa Walters, Alice Hiltman, Annie Cav- * enor, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Louisa Neu, Julia Butts, Henrietta Hearsey, Annie Cartright, Mary Campbell, Laura French.
4th Class—Misses Katie Lloyd, Mary English, Annie Jones, Margaret Cleghorn, Katie Wells, Mary Tam.
GERMAN.
Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Theresa Walters, Rebecca Netteler, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon, Mary Herman, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gal), Mary Ludwig, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelie, Charlotte Van Namee, MaryTam, Mary Fitzgerald, Magaret McNamara, Alice Donalan, Julia Butts, Catharine Hackett.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
We give this week the names of the pupils according to the dates of entrance, between Sept. 1st and 21st. As new arrivals are daily, we defer the mentions this week: Miss Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Theresa Walters, Rebecca Neteler, Minnie Loeber, Laura French, Lucie Chilton, Mary McFadden, Julia Butts, Mary Campbell, Catharine Campbell, Mary Feehan, Alicia Donelan, Angela Dillon. Johanna Baroux, Alice Kathleen Wells, Lulu Wells, Della McKerlie, Alma Moe, Clara Silverthorn, Adella Geiser, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Julia Kingsbury, Teresa Killelea, Henrietta . Rosing, Anna Cartright, Mary Mullen, Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Hermann, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Usselman, Mary Chirhart, Sarah Purdy, Anna Woodin, Grace Glasser, Mary Tam, Jessie Grover, Elizabeth Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Henrietta Hearsey, Angela Ewing, Caroline Gall, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Marie Dallas, Elise Dallas, Fanny Criep, Martha Doxey, Manualita Chaves, Martha Zimmerman, Catharine Lloyd, Ellen Lloyd, Catharine Ward, Margaret Ryan, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Brown, Annie Maloney, Alice Farrell, Louisa Neu, Leota Buck, Marie Platten-burg, Mary Birch, Minna Fisk, Blanche and Mary Garrity, Emma Derrish, Annie Cavenor, Aurelia Mulhall, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Danaher, Catharine Danaher, Louisa Kelly, Minerva Spier, Zoe Papin, Emma Shaw, Mary English, Annie Jones, Maud Casey, Agnes Brown, Mary Casey, Linda Fox, Julia Cleary, Mary Hake, Annie Orr, Elise Papin, Genevieve Winston.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
Misses Elizabeth and Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon, Agnes Brown, Catharine Hackett, Clara Silverthorn, Adella Geiser, Alice Farrell, Anna Woodin, Eleanor Keenan, Mary and Annie McGrath, Angela Ewing, Henrietta Hearsey, Sarah Purdy, Aurelia Mulhall, Emma Shaw, Mary Sullivan, Ellena Thomas, Della McKerlie, Annie Jones, Mary English, Charlotte Van Namee, Zoe Papin, Leota Buck.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3d Class—Misses Hope Russell, Teresa Killelea, Jessie Grover, Elizabeth Schwass, Julia Butts, Laura French, Marie Dallas, Mary Campbell, Angela Dillon, Ellena Thomas, Minna Loeber, Catharine Campbell' Julia Kingsbury.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses Sallie Hambleton, Marie Plattenburg, Leota Buck.
OIL PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Clara Silverthorn, Anna Woodin, Rebecca Neteler, Anna Maloney, Mary Danaher, Aurelia Mulhall, Theresa Walters, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Brown, Alice Farrell, Jessie Glover, Mary Sullivan, Annie Ryan, Philomena Wolford, Catharine Ward, Lucie Chilton, Adella Geiser, Mary Usselman, Alecia Donlan, Margaret McNamara, Anna Cartright, Henrietta Rosing, Emma Garrish, Minna Loeber, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Ina Capelle, Alma Moe, Kathleen Wells, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Tam, Ollie Williams, Mary Ludwig, Anna Herman, Annie Purdy, Mary Campbell, Della McKerlie, Teresa Zahm, par excel lence. Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Ellen Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Elizabeth Kirchner, Catharine Lloyd, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Plattenburg, Leota Buck, Grace Glasser, Henrietta Hearsey, Margaret Carroll, Angela Dillon, Louisa Neu, Mary Birch, Annie Jones, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald, Caroline Gall.	-
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Annie McGrath, Marie Dallas, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
65
Namee, Lulu Wells, Julia Butts, Mary Garrity, Mary Chirhart, Maud Casey, Mary Paquette, par excellence. Misses Laura French, Agnes McKinnis, Minnie Morris, Jane McGrath, Alice Esmer, Margaret Ivers, Teresa Haney.
—The bird of paradise, magnificent creature as it is, belongs to the crow tribe; with all its marvel of plumage, it has to confess a corvine beak and the strong coarse feet of a bird of carrion. The New Guinea natives are accustomed to cut the feet off, and so the dense soft plumage concealing the fact of amputation, these creatures found their way into Europe as the fo >tless birds.
—Swans occasionally show a certain amount of instinct. It is told of a pair that bred near Windsor locks one year that, when they found the water rising so fast as to swamp their nest, the male and female were seen busily raising the nest by shoving sticks under it just below the eggs, and by this means the level of the eggs was raised several inches, and out of harm’s way.
—The Norwegians complain that foreign sportsmen, especially English, are likely to exterminate the reindeer and wild fowl. More than fifty reindeer are now seldom seen on Hardanger table-land, where 300 or 400 could formerly be found; and Prof. Friis, the greatest Norwegian sportsman, says there are only 6,000 or 8,000 in the whole country. A couple of sportsmen, moreover, are said to have shot 1,200 wildfowl in a week.
—Throughout Northern Africa and the drier portions of Western and Central Asia the date is the staff of life to millions. The date-tree flourishes where agriculture is impossible, and is the source of large profit as well as common sustenance wherever it is cultivated. It is proposed by the Commissioner of Agriculture at Washington to make the date a staple American product. The centre of this new enterprise is to be the now useless desert regions of Southern California and Arizona. Seed has been procured in Egypt and has been successfully planted.
—A consideration of the distribution of the gigantic land tortoises of the world, living and extinct, has led Professor P. Martin Duncan to some interesting conclusions. These huge turtles are now found alive in the Galapagos Islands, in the Pacific Ocean, off the west coast of South America, and on the Aldabra, in the Indian Ocean, North of Madagascar. Extinct species occur in Mauritius and Rodriguez, and not only in these islands of the Indian Ocean, but also in India itself, where the Savlik geological deposits contain immense fossil tortoises. On assumption that the allied species had a common origin, we infer that the lands in which we now find them were once united, forming a vast continent. Here Professor Duncan thinks the great tortoises were numerous, until primeval man almost exterminated them by hunting, except in a few places which were left as islands when a great part of that pre-historic continent subsided into the sea.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
JAMES BONNEY
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH EZEISTZD, USTDIJATTJA.
SCIENTIFIC AND MEDICAL BOOKS,
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1338 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 16 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “ Collections of Minerals.”	.
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a-copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the sped es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, baroness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Catalogue of Shells, giving 2,500 species, 3 ct. stamp. Printed on heavy paper, on one side accompanied with Genus Last, 10 ct. in 1 ct. stamps.
Catalogue of Birds’ Eggs and Taxidermists’ Materials, 3 eta.
Catalogue of Books—32 pp.—5 cts.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections giveDana’s species number, the name, locality,and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens
25	50	100
in box in box in box
Crystals and fragments....	$ 50 $1 $1 50 |
Students’ size, larger....	1 50	3	6
Amateur's size, 2^ in. x ....................
High School or Acad, size,2Hx3K in. shelf specimens
College size, 3^x6 in., shelf specimens......
100
10
25
500
200 300
S 3
10
25
50
100
$ 3
25
50
100 3 CO
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa,, Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy, Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park. New York.
Lessons in Music.
PROF. EMIL ZOTT, having now taken up his residence in South Bend, is prepared to receive pupils or give private lessons in Music, Vocal or Instrumental, at moderate charges, in South Bend, Niles, Mishawaka and the ser-rounding neighborhood. Persons wishing to engage his services may apply at his residence or address him through P. O. Box 1027, South Bend.
To those who desire the services of a competent Music Teacher the following testimonial from Rev. M. Oakley, S. J., Pastor of the Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, will be a sufficient guarantee .-
Church of the Sacred Heaht, Chicago, Feb. 20,1878.
It gives me pleasure to state that Prof. Emil Zott, bearer of present, gave perfect satisfaction as an organist and as a gentleman to his employers, and to me in particular, during the five or six years that he was Organist at the Holy Family Church in this city.
From my own experience and that of others, 1 know him to be very competent to teach the Piano, and especially Vocal Music. He is an excellent director of music ard trainer of a choir.
Ever since he ceased his connection with the Holy Family choir he has always enjoyed the reputation of a good moral man and a perfect gentleman.
M. Oaklet, S. J.
66	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address,
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOURNAL
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLY FATHER PIUS H, CO HFIRHED BY POPE LEO XHI And Encouraged by Many Eminent Pbelates.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Mabia may be mentioned.
Aubrey de Vebe,	Gbace Ramsay,
Henbi Lassebbe,	Anna H. Dobsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Stabr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TEBMS:
One Year.........................................$ 2 50
Five Years........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)...20	00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
AU communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MABIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company
39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. mOCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
'Weekly Newspapers.
The c atholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AVE MARIA, a Catholic Journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscrip ion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
THE BOND HOUSE, a. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Comer of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson. '
Book Binders.
EDtvARD I*. "FIU v jm jV, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
Qt CALLING C-ATtDS—no two alike, with name Zl U neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic ZitJ Almanac for 1878. Address
. J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN dt UA.R VEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
r 11HO3MCA.S CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJNNTIN’G & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN E. McIIU GUI [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE dt DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm. W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMRERLAIN (of ’61)
Attorney at Law, Notary PubUc and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St,, Elkhart, Ind.
Me JL5 It ALMIE <fc NIA ALT j A ktH (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Bapids, Mich.
WILLIAM J. CIL ARAVE (of 74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TA.JMCES -A_. O’REILLY'—of ’69.—Attorney at Law eJ 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN T>. McCORMICK-of ‘73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.	.
DA-D^IZEIj B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of 70), Circuit
Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold
Street, Detroit, Michigan.	sep 14-1 y
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
67
University of Notre Dame,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advance- ’ ment of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and-the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m Peru accommodation................ 5 00 p.m. 9 45 a.m
Night Express.....................10 00 p.m. 6 30 a.m
A. M. SMITH, A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo’, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.	'
.	Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express..8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
-	PBOPBIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST, MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mmy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend as lollows:
GOING EAST.
3	25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives' at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m. ..
11	05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
12	16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at loud • 540p ni, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4 am.
6 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 to a m: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
•1 50and4 pm, Way Freight.
-	GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 a n>.
8 2*0 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago
4 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40;
<’hicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.	_
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div., Chicago.	“
CHARLES PAINE. Gen'l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, 1877.
Northward Trains.	No. 5* Peru and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3.-Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W„ Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis		6.10 P. M	12.25 P. M.	7.25 A. M.
“ Kokomo		8.30 “	2.42 “	9.52 “
Ar. Peru		9.25 “	3.50 “	10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte*	 “ Michigan City		9.30 P. M. 11.27 “ 12.55 “ 1.40 A. M.		11.02 A. M. 1.07 P. M. 2.35 “ 3.20 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Michigan City.. “ LaPorte	 “ Plymouth	 Ar. Peru		9.35 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 11.47 “ 1.40 “	8.05 p. sr. 8.5o A. SI. 10.33 “ 12.35 “ •	
Lv. Peru		2.00 P. M.	12.40 A. sr.	6.10 A. M.
“ Kokomo		3.05 “	1.45	“	7.05 “
“ Indianapolis....	5.25 “	4.00	“	9.35	“
Palace Sleeping Cars are attached to trains leaving Indianapolis at 6.10 n. m., Michigan City at 8.05 p. m. Passengers may remain in the Sleeping Cars during the day.
F.	P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
G.	P. & T. A., Indianapolis. Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
INFORMATION WANTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, aged shout 18 years.
Was a Minim in 1864 and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, Ill.; afterwards in St. Louis. Mo.
Please address,	“The Scholastic.”
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CL ARK ST., onposite Sbennan House,
Chicago, Illinois.
68
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. H. 1877.
	•Mail	•Day Express.		•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	{Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 » Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “		4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26“ 12 SO a.m 8 35 “	9 00 p m 11 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
				♦Jackson Express.		
	•Mail	•Day Express.			{Pacific Express.	{Evening Express.
				5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 •*	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “			9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 *•
Wiles and Soxitli Bend Division.						
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 ••	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “			•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 11 Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “			
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. {Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.						
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY '
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Eond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Free, port, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offiees-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.	-
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. S, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 P.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 AM.
Rochester,		12.53 a.m.	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,			3.10 “	12.50 p.m.	535 “	1100 “
Orrville,"		4.45 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,			7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	311 “
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,		9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,."		10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,		1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Ply mouth^		3.45 “	246 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,			Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
GOIING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.00 a.m.	5.15 p.M.	
Plymouth,		2.46 a.m.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,.'...		8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “	
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 P.M.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.44 “	500 “	655 u
Orrville,....			2.26 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	915 “
Alliance,		4.00 “	11.15 “	900 “	1120 u
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	___
F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
A NEW SYSTEM OF
German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FB. PUSTET, 52 Barclay Street, HEW YORK, ani 204 Vine street, CINCIHHATI.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those adopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beautifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen*