’ ’Notre Dame Scholastic.
- v
JDisce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTBE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 10, 1880.
Rev. Father Lilly, 0. S. G.
Number 18.
Died at Notre Dame, Ind., Dec. 30,1879. Aged 34 Years.
One of the religious placed a beautiful white lily upon the breast of the remains, as they were about to be conveyed to the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
“ Rev. Father Lilly came to Notre Dame a mere child, his heart still fresh with baptismal dews: here he passed his life, dying as he bad lived, and bearing the white robe of his innocence unspotted to the grave	About a week before his death he called the writer to his bedside, and expressed a wish to have an old habit procured for his burial so that there might be no waste. Nothing would satisfy him but a promise to see that this commission would be fulfilled.”—The Ave Maria.	■
A few days before his death he called one of the religious and said: “Do not let them cover the coffin till they get to the grave. I wish to make reparation to all the dear friends who wished to see me during my illness. I had to keep them all out, even my mother. I can die but once.”
Lily of precious bloom,
Breathe o’er the open tomb,
Rest on his heart
Whose lifelong name was thine, Whose brief career doth shine, Pure as thou art.
Loved Father Lilly, now On thy calm marble brow
Laurels repose,— Laurels of growth divine, Brighter than earth can twine, Crowning life’s close.
Genius submitted quite Unto Faith’s holier might;
Art’s glory given, Not to the world of sense, For its vain recompense, But unto Heaven.
Fairer around thy brows
Circle the triple vows;
Close to thy breast, Bound by each fragile hand, Clasped is the symbol grand, Faith loveth best.
O Holy Poverty, Boundless his love for thee!
As men hoard gold, , So, his last struggling breath, Faith’s passion, strong in death, This mystery told.
“Why should aught go to waste Which in my charge was placed ?
Made poor by vow, Thus, to repair the greed Whereon earth’s votaries feed, Poor am I now.”
Those loved in life the best, Shall not with me contest, Religion’s claim.
“I have but once to die!” Here, shut from them I lie, Blest in the same.
“When I am dead and cold, Then, then no longer hold Loved ones away.
Then, then no dread that I, For them, shall fear to die!
Tell what I say.”	*
Thus in his innocence,
Crowned with the recompense Sought in his youth. Goes this dear priest of God, While angel-choirs applaud, Praising his truth.
Goes where no tarnish falls
Over the sapphire walls: Cassock and stole
Wears he, with lily white
Pressed to that heart so light, On to the goal.
* * »
St. Mary’s Academy, Jan. 6.
A Trip to Jerusalem.
Leaves from an Unpublished Journal.
(continued.)
Catholic Arabs are numerous around Nazareth, although few when compared with the Mohammedans. The genuine Turk as a rule, is honest, and hospitality is a great virtue with him, but Mohammedans of other nations are not to be trusted. I was startled one night by a cry from a companion, and on groping around in the dark I found a burly fellow over him, robbing him. Grappling the thief, I gave him a thrust that sent him reeling, and before he left my hands I had given him a drubbing that I am sure he did not soon forget. He was an Egyptian, but in the Turkish military service. As for myself, I have often very narrowly escaped death from the hands of the Mahometans. Although they believe Christ to be truly a great prophet, but inferior to Mahomet, they nevertheless retain a great deal of their old hatred to the Christians, and will show it when opportunity offers. Often when passing through the Turkish or Mahometan Arab villages
272
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
my curiosity led me away from the band of travellers into unfrequented places, and as a reward of my temerity I have often been pelted with bowlders thrown from the doorways or from behind some place of concealment. Of course the assailants kept well out of my way, or I would have ventured to give them the thrashing they deserved. Sometimes a huge bowlder would take me in the back, or oftener would come spinning past my ear, showing clearly enough that it was the assailant’s intention to finish me if he could. Even the boys would throw stones at me, and I suspect the women sometimes had a hand in the business. Once I recollect while in Jerusalem, at the foot of a high hill or mount, in conversation with a gentleman from Dublin, and another gentleman, a learned linguist and an accomplished Oriental scholar, that a Turk or Arab at the summit hurled some huge bowlders down at us. Of course he knew we could not catch him, as we would have to make a detour to give him chase. However, I took up a stone and flung it at him as hard as I could. It fell far short of the mark, however, and no doubt the fellow had a good laugh at me. The only secure way to receive the Bedouins, while travelling, is under cover of a cocked musket, with pistols in readiness, for they are very cunning, and once in their power you are sure to be stripped. As I -have said, the genuine Turks are hospitable1, but even this much cannot be said of their Arab coreligionists. Even the scheiks carry their demands (petitions is too mild a word) for bakhshish to .such a shameless degree that if you are not absolutely in their power you are sure to tell them to go to the devil for their “bakhshish.” Their demands will only cease when your purse is empty; and when the Bedouins equal you in strength, their demand for “ bakhshish ” (or a present) is only another way of saying “Your money or your life!”
Returning to Nazareth by way of Tiberias, we passed near the thermae or warm springs of Emmaus, but did not visit them. This I regret, as I understand they have been celebrated from antiquity; they are mentioned by Pliny, and Josephus describes them. The waters are said to be beneficial for many diseases.
Returning to Nazareth, the village of Kafr-Kenna lay directly in our route. This is undoubtedly the biblical Cana, where the Saviour changed water into wine at the marriage feast. Cana is situated in a lovely and fertile valley, called the Golden Plain, and the reminiscence connected with the village made it a place of much interest to us. Here it was that at the expressed wish of His Blessed Mother our Lord anticipated the time for working His miracles,—which, He told her, had not yet come. Here it may be well to remark, also, that the words “ what is it to Me and to thee ? ’’ addressed to the Blessed Virgin by her Divine Son,, and about which so much unnecessary comment has been made, have altogether a different meaning in Syria to that which a European would naturally draw from them—namely, that they imply reproach. The words Jfan bain anta un ana?—“What is it to me and to thee?” —or, “What is there between me and thee?” is an idiomatic expression peculiar to the Arabs, according to which the words of the Saviour would signify as much as—“There is nothing between us; we are of the same mind in this matter, but My time has not yet come.” This known—and every learned Arab knows it—the much-disputed words have a clear meaning, and show the perfect unanimity of spirit existing between our Lord and His Mother. There is a tradition among the people of Kafr-
Kenna of a church being built on the identical spot of the miracle. A small church still stands in the village, but it is a modern structure, and is attended by a Greek priest. This church contains two large stone vases which are said to be two of the six water-pots used in fhe changing of the water into wine, but the exact spot of the miracle is probably where the ruins of a very ancient church are now seen, near by. After the expulsion of the Crusaders this church was converted into a mosque.
I know that our maps of Palestine have Cana situated about fifteen miles northwest of Nazareth, but this is evidently a mistake, and the learned De Saulcy clearly proves it. Our Lord being on his way from Nazareth to Caphar-naum, and stopping at Cana on the way, it is reasonable to suppose this was ’Kafr-Kenna, directly on the route, and not Kana-el-Djalii—“Cana the Greater” (and not “Cana of Galilee,” as Dr. Robinson translates it)—about fifteen miles in another direction. De Saulcy quotes several authorities in favor of the former place. So that the biblical Cana should be placed on the map from three to five miles noriheast of Nazareth, in the direction of Capharnaum.
Nazareth is situated in a deep valley or basin, about two miles long, and varying in width, but about a quarter of a mile wide in the main. This valley runs nearly north and south. The northern entrance, from Cana, is rather precipitous, but at the southern extremity there is a break in the hills, forming a kind of gorge, which gives an easy outlet. The soil, like that of the surrounding country, is arable and fertile in the highest degree, and more fertile plains than those of Megiddo and Esdraelon could not be desired. If I were one of the spies I would most assuredly vote on the “the milk and honey” side of the question. Nevertheless the inhabitants are poor; their energies seem to be blighted by the enervating and tyrannical policy of the Turkish Government, which truly hangs over this beautiful land like a heavy curse.
The women of Nazareth are extremely beautiful, and have long been distinguished for their personal attractions. De Saulcy informs us that in the sixth century Antoninus the Martyr wrote that there were in Nazareth a number of women, exceedingly beautiful, who averred that they had been blessed with this gift by the Blessed Virgin Mary. “ I know not,” he adds, “ if the Holy Virgin has had anything to do with the beauty of the Christian and Mussulman women at present living in Nazareth, but I can positively assert that this beauty is not imaginary, and that the fair possessors have reason to be proud of the distinction.” This from such a learned man, and one too who closely investigated Palestine from the Lebanon Mountains to the Dead Sea, should be testimony sufficient for any one, and I can add my own ocular evidence to corroborate it.
The valley of Nazareth is planted mainly with olive trees, and the inhabitants reckon their wealth by the number of these which they possess. The population of the village itself is mostly composed of Catholic Arabs, but there is a fair sprinkling of the Mahometan persuasion. The valley is watered by a streamlet which takes its rise ' at the well of the Blessed Virgin, about forty rods from the site of the Holy House, and runs longitudinally until it passes out at the open southern extremity, into the plain of Esdraelon, or Jesrael—that plain so often sanctified by the presence of the God incarnate, and where He taught the multitude the first principles of Christianity. Looking out through the southern gorge, the first place
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	273
likely to attract attention, directly opposite you, is little Mount Hermon, (Djebeled-Dahy) surmounted at present by the ruins of a Turkish mosque. At the base of Mount Hermon is located the village of NaTn (written Naim by Eusebius, but St. Luke writes it Naln, coinciding exactly with the Arabic pronunciation at the present day), where our Lord raised the widow’s son to life. About two miles further east, in a recess of the mount, are the ruins of Ayn-Dour, the Endor of the translators of the Bible, where Saul went to consult the witch, who conjured up in his presence the shadow of Samuel, or rather an evil spirit representing the prophet, and foretold his defeat and death at Gilboa.
To the northwest, about two miles and a half from Nazareth, is Safourieh, or, as Josephus writes it, Sepphoris, said to be the birth-place of St. Ann, the mother of the Blessed Virgin. De Saulcy tells us that Safourieh (sometime called Dio-Caesarea) was a place of considerable note in ancient times, and the strongest fortress in Galilee. It ’ was the seat of one of the five Sanhedrims of Judea. It was taken by the Romans under Varus, and Herod Agrippa made it the most important station in the country. In the year A. D. 339 an insurrection of the Jews broke out in all Dio-Csesarea, and was crushed out by the Caesar Gallus; the inhabitants were slaughtered, and the town was razed to the ground. It never after recovered its importance.
I have been thus minute in describing the scenery in and around Nazareth (or En Nasara, as the Arabians call it) on account of their close association with biblical events and the great drama of Redemption. I have now but to say a few words of the Holy House in which the Son of God was conceived and born of a pure Virgin. The Holy House itself is no longer here. Nothing remains but the Cave of the Annunciation, which is an apartment cut out of the solid rock, and probably adjoined the Holy House. It is the fashion in the mountainous districts of Galilee, Samaria and Judea to cut the basements in the rock, and sometimes apartments adjoining the house, like the Cave of the Annunciation. The Holy House itself may be seen at Loretto, in Italy, where it is said to have been carried by angels. On the 10th of May, 1291, the Mahometans, maddened by serious defeats and losses, threatened to demolish “the House of the Christians’ God,” as they sneeringly called it. Such threats had often been made before, but the greedy Mahometans were bought over by Christian largesses. This time, finally, so great was their rage, they assembled by agreement in large numbers, from all parts of the adjoining country, and, armed with their implements of. destruction, proceeded to carry out their threat. On reaching the place, however, to their great astonishment the Holy House was no longer there. It had disappeared during the night. (It was at this time, probably, that in their defeated malice they broke the pillar in the Cave.) On the same night a house was seen borne by angels and deposited on an eminence between Tersatto and Fiume on the coast of D almatia. Later it was borne in the same mysterious manner to the middle of a wood on the coast of the Adriatic, and still later carried to Loretto, where it was deposited in the middle of the public road from Recanati to the sea-shore, where it may still be seen. On digging under it through curiosity, the leaves of the road and the beaten track were discovered, and a commission of prominent gentlemen sent to Tersatto and Nazareth found by accurate measurements that the strange
house agreed in dimensions with both of the former sites.* It is about 32 feet long, 13 feet broad, and 18 feet high, with a chimney and a small belfry.
Asi have already said, nothing now remains at Nazareth of the original building in which our Divine Saviour lived for thirty years but the adjoining Cave of the Annunciation, with a few mementoes of the olden time. At the extreme end of this basement, in the right-hand corner as you enter, is a recess cut in the rock to serve the purpose of a fireplace. The chimney, a small funnel-shaped aperture bored through the rock, is still to be seen. One of a party who visited the Cave while I was there—an American gentlemaii, and a non-Catholic—when he saw the fireplace touchingly exclaimed: “Here He has often warmed His little feet!” Hard of heart indeed must be the man who could visit such a place without being moved by its reminiscences.
The inhabitants of Nazareth have had the particulars of the miraculous translation of the Holy House handed down by tradition, from generation to generation; and those of the present time—young and old, even to the children— tell us that the house was miraculously transferred in order to escape demolition at the hands of the Turks.
♦ The Holy House of Loretto: Or, An Examination of the Historical Evidence of its miraculous Translation. By the Most Rev. P. R. Kenrick, Archbishop of St. Louis, Phila.: Eugene Cummiskey. This book gives a very full and interesting account of the translation. A fac-simile of the Holy House can be seen at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana.
(io be continued.)
Musings.
“ Though lost to sight, to memory dear,” I repeated, as laying down the volume I had been reading,! brushed the ashes from my half-burnt cigar, and gave myself up to the soothing fancies suggested by that beautiful line—Our absent friends! Glancing down the far-receding avenues of the past, while memory holds aloft her torch, we gaze on those once familiar forms. How numerous they appear to him who has spent the glorious halcyon days of youth within the cherished precincts of a college-home! How thrills the heart with awakening joy, as we view once more those fond associates of by-gone years! What a host of pleasing reminiscences throng the mind, what a flood of tranquil delight inundates the soul, as, summoned by Fancy’s magic wand, they pass successively before us—a well-beloved and loving band!
“ The sorrows and joys, of which once they were part, Now round us like visions of yesterday throng.”
Lost to sight are they; for, having girded on the raiment fitted to the struggle, they have gone forth, one by one, from the loving bosom of their Alma Mater, and disappeared among the countless thousands on the great battlefield of life, even as the sparkling waters of the purling streamlet, that courses with harmonious murmur through the verdant glade, mingle with the silver-capped wavelets of the river below, and are lost in the broad volume that rolls onward to the mighty ocean. How the years have flown since we parted, how the murky shadows of the past are closing around the hallowed scenes of our youthful manhood !
Our youth! Happy period of generous impulses, lofty aspirations, and unalloyed delights! How grand the projects we form in that bright season of glowing fancies! How magnificent the structures we build, of material far more
274
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
delicate than the curling wreaths of smoke that circle round my head, their strange fantastic forms enduring for a moment, than blending imperceptibly with the ambient air! Enviable indeed are the prerogatives of the high-minded youth. For him the coming years possess no secrets. Imagination breaks down the impenetrable boundary wall of the present; and the ideal scenes of his future career hurst upon his enchanted vision. There are smiling valleys and smooth green hill-sides, merry rills and majestic rivers, fertile meadows and beauteous wild-flowers, clear, blue skies and radiant sunshine; and far away in the distance, near the horizon of time, he beholds his own manly form standing on the halo-crowned summit of Fame’s jasper mountain, where all seems joy and surpassing glory, and the golden-edged cloudlets, bathing in radiant sunlight, go floating by in harmonious accord with the 1 music of the spheres.’ All is bright, and fair, and
• beautiful. He sees not the sombre storm-clouds of sorrow and woe, of sad bereavement, bitter grief, and aching pain that will darken the prospect; he hears not the pealing thunder of the world’s harsh criticism that will bewilder his faculties; nor can he perceive the lightning-flashes of contemptuous ridicule that will paralyze his energies, before he shall have closed the career that Fancy paints so bright and prosperous. He bestows no thought on probable failure. He does not fix as the limit of his desires what may be probabilities—his aspirations are bounded only by the highest possibilities of our nature. His is no ignoble, unworthy ideal. Possession of wealth or fruition of sensual pleasures is not to be the aim of his ambitious struggles. He is eager to show the world a type of true and noble manhood. Fame and honor and glory are the prizes he would win; and delusive hope already crowns his brow with the laurel wreath of victory. What lofty schemes for the reformation of morals, the enlightenment and ennoblement of society will he not execute! He will enter the lists of the world’s great tournament and wield the trusty weapons of truth and honor against the mail-clad hordes who battle in the wrong. He will become the valiant champion of the poor and down-trodden, and his hundredfold reward shall be the grateful homage of millions of loving hearts. He will take his stand in the political arena, and like deadly arrows his fierce denunciations shall be hurled against corruption and self-interest. He will enter the literary world. Earth’s greatest intellects shall acknowledge his worth; and throughout all time, his honored name shall be held up to the admiring gaze of applauding multitudes.
Beautiful dreams of youth! Fair, idealistic castles! Unreal and impossible as they are, who would dispel the sweet illusion, or damp the enthusiasm of the skilful architect ? They will vanish all too soon, those lovely exponents of a noble longing for the good and true. No need to anticipate the crushing realities of the dawning years— the first plunge into active life will break the fairy spell, and cruel men of the world will laugh to scorn the youthful dreamer’s matchless folly. Yet how many of us are there who have not built, who are not building, castles just as unsubstantial as those beauteous structures we have seen him rear ? That practical man of business who is passing—has he no ideal ? Surely, yes. He may not acknowledge it to others, perhaps he is not conscious of it himself, but he, too, is gazing on a mountain-tops somewhere in the near or distant future, and is sighing for the peace and happiness which he thinks insured by the
glorious prize of wealth that gl tters there. Will that ideal be realized? Ah, no! even the ravored few to whom it has been granted to scale the rug: °d steeps and reach the goal, have found the object of then desires to be a worthless bauble, and have turned to other heights and other prizes.
Yes, we are always building castles.' The human heart, capable of infinite desires, dissatisfied with the greatest good this world can give, is ever reaching outward and upward. And even when the vigor and vitality of manhood are gone; when the traces of time’s chariot-wheels are plainly marked on the wrinkled brow and stooping form; when the sunset rays of life are blending with the twilight of the tomb, even then, the heaven-born instinct of the soul displays itself, and old age forms still another ideal. But this is one that all may hope to realize, and whose realization will infinitely transcend aught that fancy can portray or imagination create. It is an eternity of inconceivable bliss in that realm of entrancing loveliness, where bright celestial choirs chant perpetual strains of . ravishing melody, and ransomed souls are at peaceful rest in the perennial sunlight of the Lamb of God.
O.
The Young Lawyers’ Trick.
It is well known that college boys, as a general thing, are fond of playing practical jokes. Some time ago there lived contiguous to one of our colleges a very corpulent, rich, but remarkably penurious old deacon, named Moses Berry,—or “Uncle Moses Berry,” as he was generally called. Good Uncle Berry having once lost a valuable pair of oxen, plodded his way, puffing and blowing, to the famous seat of learning, in order to get one of the law students to write him a regular, legal advertisement of the truant bovines. Now, it so happened that the two young limbs of the law, whose aid he invoked to extricate him from his dilemma, had seen the identical bulls aforesaid about two miles from the college, on the previous day, while shooting rabbits. The missing quadrupeds of the man of weight (he weighed 300 pounds), were comfortably chewing the cud of blissful repose, beneath the hospitable -foliage of a giant monarch of the forest. They seemed oblivious, too, of the grief and anxiety their prolonged absence occasioned Deacon Moses, the far-famed raiser of prize turnips, cabbages, and pumpkins.
Of course, so favorable an opportunity of exercising their wits, and of bleeding the fat miser at the same time, could not be let pass by the embryo barristers. Accordingly, being well’ aware that the deacon was unable to read writing, these young hopefuls sat them down and indited the following ludicrous document, which the deacon posted up in several conspicuous places of the rural hamlet.
Notice—$20 Rewabd !
One pair of oxen lost or strayed, Or else by robbers were conveyed, With malice perverse, from my lands, To put in some base butcher’s hands ;
And though I’ve sought them round and round, Through parts adjacent can’t be found.
Whereas, I cannot get a hint
Of whereabouts these bullgines went, Hereby, I wish that old and young
THE^NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	275
May to enquiring set their tongue;
Since if it’s quickly set about
We’re certain sure to find, them out.
It is the wish of Deacon Moses, That young and old do poke their noses In wood-lands wild and forests drear, In dells and valleys far and near,
In every hole and corner where	-
Their truant footsteps are or were.
Each critter has fore feet before,
And yet, behind has two feet more ;
Will gee and haw for you at will,
But when they walk they ne’er stand still;
And mark you well, whene’er you find them, They’re sure to have their tails behind them.
The lucky man who’ll find and send Said bullgines to their lonely friend, Old Deacon Moses, shall have thanks And twenty dollars from the banks, To buy the needful to make merry And drink the health of
Moses Bebbt.
Next day, while all the village wags were splitting their sides with laughter at the deacon’s expense, our two young sprigs of the law quickly sought the lurking place of the missing beef-steaks, drove them to the market-place, and there and then demanded their twenty dollars of Mr. Berry, which he promptly paid, amid the cheers and acclamations of the admiring crowd.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Donahoe's Magazine, for January, has a portrait of Mr. 0. S. Parnell, the leader of the Irish people in the land agitation.
—The Saturday Review says: “J ustin McCarthy’s ‘ Donna Quixote’ is the best novel that we have read for a considerable time, and gives us higher hopes than we have ever had before as to its author’s capabilities.”
—A very interesting volume by George 0. Mason, “ The Life and Works of the painter Stuart,” has recently been issued. It is ornamented with selections from Stuart’s portraits, reproduced on steel and by photograph.
—The Pennsylvania University Magazine announces that Prof. McElroy is publishing, in pamphlet form, an abstract of his lectures on English Prose Composition and Rhetoric. There are to be three pamphlets, the first of which, running as far as the eighth lecture, has already been issued.
—At the Christmas High Mass at St. Vincent’s Home for Boys, 53 Warren St., New York, under the excellent care of that modern St. Vincent de Paul, Father Drum-goole, a Mass in F, composed for the occasion by a young professor, who has charge of the choir, was sweetly and effectively sung by a full choir of boys belonging to the Home.
—Some Harvard students offered the printer §300 for an advance copy of the questions to be submitted to them at an examination. The printer had completed the job, and parted with the sheets; but he obtained an old set of questions, put them in type and struck off a proof, which be sold to the students for the §300. They did not discover the double quality of the fraud until examination day.
—An unpublished manuscript by Richelieu has been found in France. It is said to possess great interest and to be the earliest of his known writings. It dates from 1609. Judging from the title, “Maxims that I Have Adopted for my Conduct at Court,” one might well conjecture that its interest would be great. The report further says that the manuscript will soon be published.
—To those who are particularly fond of small handwriting, it may be interesting to know that there has been in the rooms of the Literary and Scientific Association in Morrison, Whitesides County, Ill., for nearly a year, a postal card on which a young gentleman, who is a clerk in an insurance office in that city, has written in a clear and beautiful hand 7,000 words without the aid of a glass. The card
is on public exhibition, and may be seen by any visitor.
—At Eastwell Park, the Duke of Edinburgh’s seat in Kent, there is a large room specially devoted to music, which is occupied by two grand pianofortes, one by Broadwood and the other by a Russian maker. The Duke of Edinburgh, as a violinist, could hold his own in any orchestra, and the Duchess is an excellent performer on the pianoforte, as are Prince Louis of Battenberg, the Baroness Kbnigsberg, and Lady Harriet Grimston of the household. The little musical parties make a picture such as De Hooghe, Mieris, or Jordaens would have loved to paint. Mr. Sullivan of “Pinafore” fame was a constant guest there when in England.
—Mr. Whitley Stokes, an English gentleman living in India, has recently printed, at Calcutta, for private circulation, a volume of “ Indian Fairy Tales,” which have a peculiar interest The greater part of them were related to Mr. Stokes’s daughter, a very young lady, in Hin-doostan by natives, who were servants, and were afterwards written out in English by Miss Stokes, and annotated by her mother, who has since died. There are in all about thirty stories, and it is expected that before long they will be printed in London. Mr. W. R. S. Ralston will edit them, and add a preface on the connection of Indian with European folk tales, a task for which he has special aptitude.
—The industrious eclectic, S. Austin Allibone, has completed the fourth of his series of works constituting a course in English literature, namely, “ Great Authors of All Ages, Being Selections from the Prose Works of Eminent Writers from the Time of Pericles to the Present Day.” Allibone’s other works are of the same class,— “Prose Quotations from Socrates to Macauley;” “ Poetical Quotations from Chaucer to Tennyson;” and “A Critical Dictionary of English Literature and British and American Authors, Living and Deceased, from the Earliest Accounts to the Latter Part of the Nineteenth Century.” This dictionary is in three volumes, and contains over forty-six thousand authors. However opinions may differ about Allibone’s perfect impartiality of judgment or originality and acumen, his accuracy is unquestionable, and the taste and diligence his volumes of quotations display renders them useful in the highest degree, not only to the scholar, who may have a well selected library, to which they will serve as indexes, but to that almost limitless class who love good reading and who have no large library.
—The greatest work put forth by the Appletons is the “American Cyclopedia.” The first edition of this, in sixteen volumes, appeared in 1857-63, under the editorship of George Ripely and Charles A. Dana. The second edition was published in 1873-76, with the same editors, and in the same number of volumes, excepting that the index is an additional volume. The cost of this work must have been immense, since money was not spared in its preparation. But it has doubtless proved one of the most profitable enterprises ever undertaken by the house. Of the second edition alone there have been sold more than 50,000 sets of sixteen volumes each, or upward of 800,000 volumes, not including the index. The selling price is §80, §96, and §112 a set, according to binding, or §5, §6 and §7 a volume. Taking the cheapest binding and the lowest price, and it follows that the sales of the work, not counting the index volume, which is sold for §3,50, have already exceeded §4;000,000,. As a matter of fact, a large proportion of the sets sold have been in a better binding than that on which the above estimate is made. It will be safe to assume that the Cyclopedia has been sold to the extent of not less than §5,000,000. There is in these figures a significance which rises above all considerations personal to the publishers. When the people invest §5,000,000 in one literary work, whose single aim is to impart information, it becomes a matter of natural significance and natural pride.—Chicago Tribune. Appleton’s American Encyclopedia is the first, and probably the only one so far, which gives a correct idea of matters and things Catholic, having done away with the thousand-and-one false impressions heretofore existing. Although this was but a simple act of justice, the Appletons deserve creditJbr having been the first to venture to do it.
276
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—Mr. Edison has offered a reward of $500 to any one who will succeed in setting fire to auy substance with his electric lamp. The lamp may be broken in a barrel of gunpowder or nitro-glycerine without causing either to explode.
—Prof. Klinkerfus, of Gottingen, ridicules the notion, to which he assigns an English origin, of the danger to the earth of the present position of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. He scouts the idea ol the epidemics of the sixth and sixteenth centuries being caused by a similar phenomenon, declaring that such a phenomenon did not then occur, and can only occur, even excluding a Neptune once in 420 years.
—The Newland oak is 47 feet, 6 inches in girth. The Cowthrop, now more than a 100 years in process of decay, has a girth of 60 feet. Both are in England. Many of the fine oaks in England are, without doubt, from 800 to 1000 years old. The Dukeries in Nottinghamtou present the greatest number of specimens, and Berkshire has some remarkably fine oaks, especially in the neighborhood of Windsor, and the Duke of Buccleuch’s park of Ditton, near there.
—The Werdeman electric candle consists of a single upright stick of carbon, held firmly between two mental jaws, which form an arch for the passage of the electric current. The carbon is attached by means of little pulleys with small weights which kept it constantly in the arch, and as it burns out, raise it. Therefore, when the electric current is shut off with a local switch, no other candle in the circuit is affected, and the carbon may be relighted by turning on the current again.
—The project of converting the deserts of North Africa into an inland sea has by no means been given up. Geographical and engineering societies in Europe are steadily accumulating inlormation as to the most practical points from which the ocean may be admitted and the country submerged. The changes ensuing upon such a feat will be vast. Not only will the climate of Africa be changed for the better, but trans-Medtterranean winds and heat will be modified remarkably in Southern Europe. The commercial advantages to follow will be unparalleled.
—Mr. Kreismann, the United States consul general at Berlin, reports a German invention for preserving the dead. In 3,000 grammes of boiling water there are dissolved 100 grammes of alum, 25 grammes of cooking salt, 12 grammes of saltpetre, 60 grammes of potash, and 10 grammes of arsenic acid. When the mixture is cool it is filtered, and \to every 10 litres of it 4 litres of glycerine and 1 of methylic alcohol are added. Bodies saturated and impregnated with this liquid are said to resist decomposition very well. •Besides for embalming purposes, this new process will, it 'is thought, be found serviceable for preserving subjects that may be required for dissection.
—Many persons may not be aware that glass can be cut under water with ease to almost any shape by simply using a pair of shears or strong scissors. In order to insure success, two points must be attended to. First and most important, the glass must be kept quite level in the water while the scissors are applied; and secondly, to avoid risk it is better to begin the cutting by taking oft small pieces at the corners and along the edges, and so reduce the shape gradually to that required, as any attempt is made to cut the glass all at once to the shape as we should a piece of card board, it will most likely break where it is not wanted. Some kinds of glass cut much better than others, the softer glasses being the best for this purpose. The scissors need not be at all sharp, as their action does not appear to depend on the state of the edge presented to the glass. When the operation goes on well the glass breaks away from the scissors in small pieces in a straight line with the blades.
—Lord Valentia mentions having seen during his travels in India two towers which bore a strong resemblance to the Round Towers of Ireland. In opposition to tiie idea advanced by Mr. Petrie and his followers that the Round Towers were Christian belfries, General Vallancey re
marks that there are no traces to be discovered of the walls being broken for the purpose of suspending the bells, and that their sounds would have been muffled by the great thickness of the towers; besides, as is remarked by Dr. Milner, “the towers are too narrow to admit of the swinging of the bells within them.” This view is still further strengthened by the fact that belfries have been found attached to churches close to round towers. St. Patrick, in his direction concerning the erection of churches, never alluded to these buildings, which, had they been of Christian origin, he would not have passed over in silence. To the objection raised that the towers were generally found near churches, Dr. Lanigan answers that there was a prudential motive for the Christian missionaries to build churches near the sites of the Round Towers, namely to attract the converts to worship the true God in the very place where they had been in the habit of adoring fire. Moreover, several of these towers are in spots where no traces of churches are to be seen, as in the Isle of Scattery, off the mouth of the Shannon. Such are the arguments which seem most conclusive in favor of the Eastern origin of the Round Towers, which lend such charm and interest to Irish scenery.
Exchanges.
—The Brunonian is always a welcome visitor, but the excellence of many of the editorials in the last published number escaped attention until we glanced over the paper a second time. Those on Collegiate Slang and Old Literary Societies at Brown express views that will apply equally well elsewhere.
—The editors of The Chronicle treated the readers of that excellent college monthly to a Christmas holiday number replete with excellent matter, and issued under a handsome cover. Among the literary articles is a Christmas Sonnet above the average, “ Carl Redmonde’s Christmas Time,” an interesting sketch of student life, and a continuation of “ A Trip to Brazil.” The leading editorial, a sketch of “ Remenyi,” with some impressions of his concert at Ann Arbor, show that the editors warmly appreciate good music. The Chronicle editors not only possess the talent necessary to the writing up of matter for a good paper, but also the journalistic knack of presenting things in an attractive form.	’
—The board of editors of The Virginia University Magazine for 1879 relinquished their editorial quills with me December number of that publication. Daring the short term of our acquaintance with the Magazine we have had, we think, sufficient opportunity of forming a high opinion of the management and literary ability of its editors. They have aimed at a high standard, and have succeeded in a measure creditable alike to themeslves and to their Alma Mater. The last year’s editorial staff was composed of the following gentlemen: W. P. Kent, editor-in-chief, Virginia; W. 8. Lefevre, Maryland; Douglass Sherley, Kentucky; W. Cabell Bruce, Virginia; L. B. Bernei, business editor, Maryland. The names of the editors for the present year have not yet been published.
—The December number of The Vassar Miscellany is up to the usual, high standard-of that publication. The Miscellany is' one of the ■ best of our college magazines. “The Educational Value of Scientific Investigation ” is an excellent article; and the second one of the present number, “ Ought our Museums and Art Galleries to be Opened on Sundays ? ” would find a place in many of our newspapers outside if they got hold of it. “ English Ballad Poetry,” etc., has some apposite reasoning, with some very tangible untruths that manage to pass general muster under the garb of truth. We meet them almost everywhere, and always with that bold brassy look that deceive wellmeaning persons who, ignorant of their spurious nature, pass them as current coin. The department ‘‘De Tempori-bus et Moribus ” has an excellent article on Women and Intemperance, in which the temperance question* is thoroughly and very sensibly examined; sound thoughts, solid sense, and excellent reasoning throughout
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ’	277
—The Virginia University Magazine for December, just received, opens with an excellent essay on the character of Hamlet with the play of Hamlet left out. The 5 writer’s name is not given, but it need not have been withheld through fear that the article would bring discredit x upon it. The literary articles in the Virginia University Magazine are not mere squibs of essays, but more generally y lengthy and well-written articles, and would not do discredit to the best of our regular magazines. We called attention to two such essays or sketches in the October number of the Magazine—"John Randolph,” by W. C. B. (W. Cabell Bruce, we presume) and “Samuel Johnson and His * Friends,” by R. H. Sharpe, and the articles on “ Hamlet ” and “ The Shaksperian Sonnets,” by W. S. L., in the pres-'	ent number, are of a similar grade of excellence. Tae latter
shows considerable study of a subject upon which English » writers have widely diverged in tneir opinions. The second article of the present number, “Night Brings out the Stars,” by “Nox,” is ably written, but we can as little agree with the writer in his condemnation of Pope Leo X as a trafficker in Indulgences as we can in his glowing • eulogium of Doctor Martin Luther. We know that no matter what abuses had crept into the ranks of the German clergy, and abuses have sometimes existed among them, Pope Leo never trafficked in Indulgences, and it k was not until certain privileges were withdrawn from Luther’s community that the latter became jealous, and rebellious, and began to learn that there was really a “traffic” in Indulgences! But Luther’s saying so in a fit of passion and jealousy does not make it so, and if “ Nox ” will but read Audio’s Life of Luther, in two volumes (the production of an erudite scholar), he may feel disposed to write another essay over the nom de plume of “Lux.” This book is not only available but within easy k reach, being published in English and for sale in this country. It is the fullest and best written life of Luther that we know of. The second of the “ Old Oddity Papers ” is formed of two fancy sketches as full of interest and as well-written as the first, but there is a certain monotonous feeling of gloom throughout. If this artist-writer will but let a little of Heaven’s bright sunshine in upon his * pictures we will be disposed to call them perfect of their kind.
College Gossip.
—Amherst College has recently received gifts of over $100,000.—Queen’s College Journal.
—A contributor to The Princetonian suggests the construction of a lake at the toot of the hills, for boating.
—The College of the City of New York has established a professor in architecture. The salary is $3,000 per annum.
—Hamilton College is soon to receive an endowment of five hundred thousand dollars from the Presbyterian Church.
—Chester W. Chapin, of Springfield, has recently given President Seelye, for Amherst College, a gift amounting to $106,000.—Earlhamite.
—It is said -that Harvard and Princeton are coming to the point of refusing the degree of M. A. to those who do not take a post-graduate course.
—Freshman translates Acto equo temere, “ A horse acting at random.” Prof.: “Your horse certainly acted at ran-dt m Mr.----.” Explosion.—Ex.
—It has been estimated that five out of six of the students in college own ponies. “ Really now, hem! are we a neigh—shun?”—Amherst Student.
—It is probable that the class races next spring, at Yale, will be rowed in eights. There is an eight-oar craft at the boat-house for each of the four crews.
—President McCosh, of Princeton College, has the most elegant mansion of any college president, the gift of the Philadelphia branch of the Stewait family.
—The credit of the saturnine joke in last week’s Scholastic—the one that took the belt—was omitted by the compositor. It should have been credited to the Amherst Student.
—Freshman in Algebra, while Professor’s back is turned
(in a whisper): “Say, how do you get the quantity out from the radical?” Consoling Fresh.—“Rub it out.”— University Press.
—It is rumored that the following is one of the very, very funny things of the forthcoming Olio: “Why was Rufus Choate like a bear’s tail ? Because he was an ornament to the b’ar.—Amherst Student.
—The Brunonian asks: “ Who steals magazines from the reading-room ? ” Brown needn’t worry for awhile; that fellow has been out West here for some time past, and several books and papers have disappeared. Practical lessons in book-keeping, we suppose.
—A Students’ Guild, after the kind of similar institutions in Germany, has been formed at Cornell, and includes most of the students there. Each student pays 75 cents a year, and the proceeds are used to defray the expenses of poor and sick students.—Ledger.
—President Gilman, of Johns Hopkins, thinks with President Barnard, of Columbia, that the indiscriminate conferring of academic titles is a growing educational evil. Medical colleges, he believes, are worse than literary institutions in this respect.—Campus.
—The Cornell University farm, including campus, consists of two hundred and sixty-four acres; the total endowment fund presented to the University is $1,263,000; salaries of fifty-four instructors amount to $73,283; annual expenditures, about $110,000; number of graduates, 621; of undergraduates, 435.
—Rochester University has just been presented with six hundred volumes worth four thousand dollars. Many of the works are very valuable, ranging in price from five to fitty dollars a volume. An edition of Ruskin is worth six hundred and fifty dollars, while a single volume of Samuel Rogers’ poems is valued at five hundred dollars.
—The lecture season at the celebrated Academy of Mt. St. Vincent on the Hudson, a suburb of New York city, has opened brilliantly. Prof. O’Leary has been diving into the mine of Shaksperean treasures, and Rev. J. J. Dougherty, of Mott Haven, opened a series of lectures on “ The Historical Popes,” with a subject of peculiar interest, “ Leo the Great.”
—A generous benefactor has presented the Catholic University of Lille the sum of $20,000, for the purpose of founding a new chair of Theology, to be placed under the patronage of St. Thomas Aquinas. During the past year the University received from another benefactor $40,000 for the University buildings. The library now contains about 36,000 volumes.
—An attempt to close St. Patrick’s College, Maynooth, Ireland, is making by the landlords. The reason of this is, that the Catholic Bishops who are trustees of the College have not favored the eviction of the poor Irish peasantry from their hovels, for non-payment of rent for the same. It would be hard to believe the news, did not the Dublin Freeman announce it on the best authority.
—To show how little some pretendedly learned people in this country know of the subjects they bring before the public, a certain Rev. James Freeman Clarke, of Boston, in order to throw obloquy on us Catholics, says that education has been 'neglected in Catholic Spam. But, as the Boston Pilot remarks, the latest official reports state that Spain has 10 great Universities, while Protestant England has only 4, and of these, Oxford and Cambridge were established by Catholics. The Statesman’s Year Book says Spain has a million and a half of pupils in the secondary schools alone; and it has, besides a great variety of other institutions, 58 colleges, 757 professors, and 13,881 students. The figures of the American Bureau of Education say that neither England, nor the United States, can excel this in proportion to population. Tne New York Tribune and New York Times expressed astonishment at the educational exhibit made by Spain at the Philadelphia Exposition; and Professor Laing, a Protestant traveller, testified that the “Papist” (one of the nicknames or slang terms that the “culchawed” people of the James Freeman Clarke stamp apply to Catholics) clergy in Spain keep ahead of the intellectual progress of the community not by keeping the people back, but by advancing themselves.
278
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*
H |imu
Notre Dame, January IO, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth: year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and later ary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the suceess of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms. Sl.aO Per Annum, Tostpaid..
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
And Now—Business!
The Christmas holidays of this year can now he called a matter of the past. The students have returned from their homes, and study is once more the order of the day. We hope, then, with the reopening of the classes, to see the attention of all our students turned towards them, with redoubled energy and zeal, showing that they can appreciate the true spirit of these holidays, and prove themselves grateful for the favor received. Having had almost two weeks of relaxation from study, in which they might also participate in the pleasures of the season, and then by recollecting for what purpose they are in college, and the great value of their time therein, they can readily see that there is none to be lost. They should realize that they are, during their college days, forming the foundation upon which their future career is to stand. If it be solid, then will they be well .able to build upon it the structure of a successful and solid future; if, on the contrary, its formation is negligently attended to, it will prove most likely too weak for the burden it is to support, and giving away will be the ruination of a life time.
Reflecting, then, seriously upon the importance of this great work they have before them, and remembering that time flies swiftly by, giving them but a small portion in which to prepare themselves for the stern realities of life, they should arouse themselves to turn every moment to this effect. Every moment of their time can be utilized, whether it be in the study-hall, class-room, in their religious exercises, or even among their comrades in recreation.
They must not for a moment imagine that the acquisition of knowledge and learning forms the sole material of that foundation they are to build; by no means, its solidity depends upon the uniting of other materials with it. Principles of strict morality must be instilled, that will show how to use beneficially this acquired knowledge; and habits must be ingrafted that will ever insure the practice of these principles, and an adhesion to them, otherwise, far from being a benefit to the subject, wisdom would prove but his ruination. Besides this, his natural dispositions should beat-tended to, and trained, so as to become of such a nature that they will always bring to him not only the respect, but the love of all with whom he may be associated; and last, though not least, his health must be well taken care of, for without this what can be accomplished, when he shall have become a man, and entered into the world as one of its real working members ? We answer, comparatively nothing. His brightest hopes, his loftiest designs, must fall to the ground. Thus the students can see from the enumeration, we have given, that every moment of his time, no matter what his occupation may be, can be successfully used in building that structure we have called the foundation of a lifetime.
We expect, then, to see our students lose no time whatever in the sad realization that the holidays have passed. They have gone—they have no doubt been spent pleasantly—and all the powers on earth cannot bring them back. We would then say to our students—banish from your minds all recollection of your vacation and strive to forget them entirely, if they are the cause of your losing time. While at study let your time be spent diligently; in the class-room, having prepared well, you can of course recite likewise, then you have but to listen attentively to the professor’s instructions, and your time will certainly prove happy. During the recreations, enter with a full heart into the sports and pleasures of your companions, as this is also a duty upon your part—to form the dispositions and protect the health, of which we have spoken.
We were told once by a young man who spent many years at Notre Dame that the only time he was ever home-sick was upon his return, the first year after the holidays, and he admitted that often, upon waking up during the night, and hearing the melodies of “ Home Sweet Home,” “ Old Folks at Home,” etc., which were then played by the chimes, he used to cry; he remarked at the same time, that he fully believed that the entire month of January and a part of December were an entire loss to him in his studies. He also added that he thanked his father for prohibiting any more Christmas visits. We sincerely hope no such an attack of the “ blues ” as this will visit any of you, and that none will give way to any such dejection of mind and spirit experienced by some pitiable creatures, in times past, that rendered them for a month so inanimate that, far from giving any attention to classes, they were too weak to even kick a football, or join in a game of hand-ball. Such conduct as this of course would render him, not only supremely disgusting to all around him, but also culpable to his parents, the authorities of the college, and to himself, in as much as he shows base ingratitude, to those, that have allowed him this pleasant recreation, and to those that are supplying the means for his education—to himself culpable, in that he allows so much of that time so precious, and which can never be recalled, to pass unused in the great task he should accomplish.
We trust, then, to see you all resume your varied duties
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
279
upon the commencement of the new year with renewed ' vigor and diligence, showing by your application to studies, your progress in all your classes, and your constant „	edifying	conduct, that you realize and intend to effect
the end for which you have been placed here, namely, to y	make of yourself a true man, and a good and useful mem-
ber of society. The present time forms especially a fitting one to renew your past good resolutions, and, if not already ‘ done, to make good and regular rules of life and conduct during your college days. An excellent opportunity is pre-r	sented to look back into the past year, and see where and
how your actions can be bettered, either as to your behavior or mode of studying. Having given this a proper reflection, then rise up, form and carry out good resolutions for their improvement,—in a word, turn over a new leaf, and take our word for it, you may be at the close of this year sur-* prised at the progress you have made, and will surely feel that you have spent one of the happiest years of your life.
The Great “I ams.”
There is a certain class of individuals in this beautiful world of ours, occupying certain positions either in the civil, political, social, or religious order, who imagine that were it not for them, and the mighty efforts made by them, the order of things as it now exists would be reversed—the A	very earth would fail to revolve on its axis, or some great
and destructive calamity would visit the whole human race, leaving in its track death and desolation. These are the individuals to whom I give the new, but quite appropriate appellation of “ the great I ams.” They are the individu-k als who constantly sing their own praises, and find fault with those who will not do the same for them. They never ‘	acknowledge the superiority of any one over themselves,
no matter how palpable that superiority may be, but con-V	stantly find fault with such persons, and do all in their
power to disparage their character in the eyes of others. When the great “ I am ” tires both himself and his listeners by his empty boasting, as a means of recreating himself, he’ll invent a splendid story about some one whom he dislikes, simply because that person is better than himself, and then with a gusto, which would do credit to a a	Bedlamite -he’ll, tell it—“whose roguish madness allows
itself to anything”—to one of his equals, his face lit up during its recital with a smile that would set off the physiognomy of an arch-demon to advantage. As a general rule, they do not succeed in convincing those to whom they relate these stories that whatever they say is Gospel truth: oh, not for very frequently they are detected in the act of telling falsehoods, or have been detected so often, that whatever they say afterwards is taken cum grano salts. They are the individuals who consider themselves as being indispensably necessary in whatever position they may ► occupy, small though that position generally is.
The “I ams” are a hard crowd to get along with; in order to do it, you must be constantly pulling against the current. If anything happens to go wrong with Mr. “ I am,” * i or with his affairs, the blame must not be laid at his door, but 1 must be attached to somebody else—to some one disliked by him. You’ll never hear any of the members of the “ I ’ < am ” fraternity speak a good word of anybody—that would be contrary to one of the fraternity’s rules, which says: (	“Selfishness is to be assiduously cultivated.” Though
always ready to laud himself or to make his own works
heroic in the eyes of others, he has never a word of praise for the actions of others, no matter how laudable they may be; for that would militate against another of the fraternity’s rules, which reads: “To praise another is to dispraise yourself.”
If there is an affair about to happen, in which “ I am ” can obtain a passing notoriety, with what vim will he not embrace the opportunity! And if successful in any undertaking, which is seldom the case, how jubilant he’ll feel over it! How eager he is to acquaint everyone he meets with the news of his success. We have yet to see an “I am” who ever made his mark in the world—allowances of course to be made for his footprints. If he tells a joke, or what he considers to be one, all of his auditors must laugh, or—he’ll laugh himself.
There is another characteristic by which this individual can always be recognized: it is jealousy. He cannot bear the thought that some one is preferred to himself. He either wants everyone .to be on an equality with himself, or his inferior. He cannot have an affection for anyone, because he is too selfish: nor can he bear tosee affection existing between other individuals. If in a position to exercise a little authority, he believes in ruling with an iron hand, and in inflicting the most severe punishment for a trivial offence. He would condemn all who, in a similar position, would rule by mildnes and affability, and thereby gain what is most essential in the government of a nation or of a body of individuals—the affection of the governed. Mr. “ I am ” is very much like a frog in a mill-pond ;»no one would be aware of his existence but for his constant croaking. And like the frog, as soon as his croaking or boasting is over, he is entirely forgotten.
I am sure that enough has been said concerning the “ Great I ams ” to show that each and every one of them is as highly appreciated as the frog in the mill-pond. Let those, then, who do not wish to be identified as membe rs of this simian “I am” Society, cast aside those manners, customs and characteristics, by which every member is so easily recognized. To those who have been, and still are, old followers of “I amism” I would say: Abandon it. You can never be happy while a member of it, for you will constantly be at variance with your fellow-man. Be magnanimous. Be respectful to all, and then you may hope to command the respect of all. Finally, in the words of the immortal Shakespeare:
“This above all—to thine own self be true, And it must follow as the night the day, Thou caust not then be false to any man.”
Personal.
—R. M. Hinde, ’67, is one of the prominent business men of Lewiston, Ill. In a recent letter to President Corby he sends regards to all his old professors and prefects.
—Our old friend C. J. Dodge, Burlington, Iowa, ’74, must be acquiring a most desirable practice, since we hear of his being led clear down into Ohio by his professional work. Strikes us, however, he could have forced the route of his trip and given us one of his New Year’s smiles.
—Rev.Father Zahm, we understand, is to favor the people of Fort Wayne with two of his fine lectures during this month. The first on the 19th, will be upon the subject of Magnets and Electro-Magnets, their properties and uses. The subject of the second lecture, on the 20th, will be that of “Water and its Elements.” In. these lectures Father
x
280.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Zahm will display the great magnet and other instruments lately procured.
—We were delighted to meet our old friend George Crummey, of ’75. He was bringing his sister to St. Mary’s Academy, and remained with us two or three days to see his old friends and the new College. He gave us a description of his present home in Wisconsin, where he and his brother James are engaged in farming. They are both married, and settled down to a quiet and happy life with their families, in an occupation surely pleasant and profitable. It is needless to say George is the same good-hearted George, and was met by a crowd of welcoming friends.
Local Items.
—All the classes are reviewing.
—Coffee fifty cents a cup at Peru, Ind.!
—Only ten more class days until the examination.
—Several new students have arrived since the holidays.
—The ice has almost entirely disappeared from the lakes.
—The athletes have had a fine week for outdoor sports.
—Competitions will be held next week in the Preparatory Course.
—Elevated Law: “I tell you what it is, sir, I must have coffee or bust.”
—Who has won the Scholastic Christmas gift ? We are anxious to learn.
—The Preps played a game of baseball on their campus Tuesday afternoon.
—New arrivals in the Junior, in the Senior, and in the Minim department.
—The arrival of the “ Marshal ” caused quite a sensation among the Juniors.	*
—The Minims have taken advantage of the fine weather for long and frequent walks.
—Mergie made a three-legged visit to the coal pile four times a day during the Christmas vacation.
—Reports of the recent meetings of the St. Cecilia and Philopatrian Associations will be given next week.
—That Cuban should abbreviate the scratching appendages of his manipulating instruments. “ Jes so! ”
—Last Wednesday was like a day in September. The Juniors played a game of football; the Seniors, a game of baseball.
—Solon Shingle did not put in an appearance at Notre Dame during the holidays; a slight indisposition prevented him from keeping his engagement
—Our friend John returned during the week, and says he feels as happy as a marshal; has not been troubled the least with nostalgia since his arrival.
—The Senior Scientifics are making desperate efforts to raise respectable looking burnsides. So tar their efforts have not been crowned with success.
—The color-bearers, Masters N. Nelson and Frank Becker, displayed themselves admirably on last Wednesday both by their playing and collecting of the ribbons.
—Quite a number of lazy Freshmen and Sophomores remained in town two or three days before returning to the College. Consequently, they have lost their class positions.
—Glad to welcome you back, Marshal. Happy New Year! Such was the greeting he heard on all sides, but he didn’t seem pleased with the military title conferred on him.	■ ‘	'
—One ofour exchanges asks “Why are college boys like soft boiled potatoes?” and answers, “Because they are so easily mashed.’’ Some South-Benders think there is a good mess of soft boiled-potatoes among our lower class men.	..... . •	•.	,
—The examination will probably begin on the last Monday in January. Excellent work has been done in nearly all the classes since September, and we are confident that tiie percentages will compare favorably with those- or former years.	-
—“Within there pants a heart for something higher,”
—so said “Genaro” in the last play we had; but the Physiological Student did not agree with him. He thought it ought to be “ Within their seats,” etc. Perhaps • he was right.
j —Those who so kindly criticise our journalistic efforts ’ should furnish us with something better for our paper.
We desire judicious criticism, and we shall feel grateful to anyone who will send us better items and articles, than those we now publish.
—The ostensorium in which the Blessed Sacrament was exposed on the Feast of the Epiphany was the one presented the University by the late Napoleon III. It had not been used before for several years, because it is too heavy to be easily handled.
—An unusually large number of new students have arrived since the holidays. H. Rose, of Evansville, Ind., and Jos. Smith of Circleville, Ohio, claim that if Notre Dame wishes to increase the number of students to five hundred before the close of the year, they should be allowed a vacation every month.
—Our young friend Mergentheim is convinced that the success of the experiments performed during the lecture in South Bend is mainly due to the valuable services rendered by him. Mergy, however, sorrowfully reflects that merit has another peculiarity besides its modesty; viz., that it is never properly recognized.
—It may be well to say that we have no further interest in The Scholastic Annual than the wish to see its publisher succeed in his enterprise. Prof. Lyons, although not an editor of the Scholastic, has had the columns of our paper placed freely at his disposal, and the literary matter of the Annual has been compiled from it.
—The Scholastic Annual for 1880 has just been issued by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University. It contains the usual fund of wit, in addition to astronomical and calendrial notes which have made it already famous, though the present publication is only the fifth of the series.—Chicago Daily Tribune, Jan. 2.
—The Scholastic Annual for the Year of Our Lord 1880. By J. A. Lyons.—University of Notre Dame, Indiana.—We are in receipt of a copy of Inis Catholic Annual or Almanac. In it will be found everything usually contained in a work of this kind, together with a choice selection of reading-matter.—Pittsburg Catholic.
—Work has again begun in dead earnest. But a very short time remains before examinations—and we have no doubt that every moment will be well employed. Those who return late must make up their minds to lose a portion of the review, but they may perhaps find consolation in the thought that no one can be blamed hut themselves.
—Grand Pontifical High Mass was celebrated on the Feast of the Epiphany by Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger, with Very Rev. Father Corby as assistant-priest, Fathers Walsh and Louage, deacons of honor, and Fathers Kelly and Stoffel deacon and subdeacon of the Mass. Tne seminarians from the Novitiate and Scholasticate performed the duties of assistants.
—We have often heard of people “ stretching the truth,” which of course is an impossibility; they are simply lying in a moderate way. Again, you will meet with people who tell whopping big lies and think nothing very wrong in doing so; this is the second grade of liars. They think, probably, they are all right as long as they keep within stricter bounds than those savages the Coreans, for in Corea four lys make a mile. Fact!
—A charming little book of rhymes comes to our table entitled “Preludes,” by Maurice F.-'Egan, published, the title-page tells, to aid in the rebuilding of the University of Notre Dame. It needs no excuse for its being' other than its own sweet fragrance, although it will labor in a 'good cause, and effectively there can be no doubt—South Bend Weekly Register. The Register then quotes some of the beautiful verses contained, which, from want of space, we are forced to leave out.
—The Michiganders object to the announcement we gave of their defeat in our last, and say: “The Buckeyes claim to have won a game of handball over the Michiganders during the holidays; at least it was so stated in
■c

^THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '	281
your last issue. Allow me to contradict this by telling you the truth. The Buckeyes did not, nor can they beat the Michiganders at handball or at anything else. The truth is that the Buckeyes were badly defeated at handball by the Michiganders. Five games were played, of which the Buckeyes won not one. They were ‘Chi-cagoed ’ in one of the five, and in the other four games, they got from 3 to 5 tallies.”
—Father Zahm’s lecture in South Bend, on Wednesday evening, on the subject of electro-magnetism, was attended by a large and appreciative audience. The experiments were numerous and brilliant. The batteries were not powerful enough to prevent the two stalwarts who did the crowbar business, from removing the armature of the monster-magnet, but their efforts to force a bar of iron between the poles were not equally successful. Many of the experiments—as for instance, the pumping of water by means of the electro-motor and the illustrations of Ampere’s theory of magnetism—were highly successful and heartily applauded. At the close, the lecturer was warmly congratulated by many prominent citizens of South Bend.
—The Scholastic Annual for 1880 has made its appearance. it is a book of seventy-nine pages, in pamphlet form, published by the University of Notre Dame, and, like the five numbers that have preceded it, is filled with matter of great interest to the general public. Among other good things it contains the oration of the Right Rev. Bishop Spalding, delivered at the thirty-fourth annual commencement of the University of Notre Dame. The rates of United States postage are given in the book, days of fasting and abstinence from work, dates of eclipses, as well as full calendar computations for each month of the year; some funny astrological predictions, a mention ol some important discoveries that have occurred, as well as many other things everybody would like to know about. The book is compiled by Professor J. A. Lyons.—Daily Inter-Ocean (Chicago), Jan. 2.
—Scholastic Annual for 1880—By J. A. Lyons. It is with genuine pleasure we hail this neat little annual. Without any doubt it is, both as regards literary merit, and typographical workmanship, one of the very best we know of. From Prof. Lyons’s well known ability we expected much, and in past years were not disappointed. We are happy to add that his effort for 1880 is fully equal, if not superior, to anything he has hitherto given us. The astrological predictions are as racy as ever, whilst the different articles evince a high order of literary merit. The poetical selections, too, are choice, and well sustain the character this spicy little annual has already won for itself. The oration of Right Rev. Bishop Spalding, delivered at Notre Dame University in 1878, is one that is alone worth the price of the book, and we recommend it to our young men as a masterly composition, the perusal of which cannot but be profitable to them. We extend our hearty congratulations to Prof. Lyons on his eminent success.—Catholic Record, London, Ont.
—Throughout the holidays the refectories presented as jovial and good-natured a scene as one could wish lor. College commons were for the time being at a discount— although we have, likely, the best college commons oi any institution in the country, and abundance of them—and it was only when turkey or oysters and their etceteras were on the table that the contents of the “ boxes ” did not appear. These “ boxes ” came from the north, from the south, from the east, from the west—from all directions—and their contents were as various as possible. They might be pronounced veritable “ Pandora's ’boxes ” lor variety, but that their contents had just the the opposite effect of that time-honored institution. What was most pleasing in the whole affair was the good-natured spirit shown by the recipients of the boxes; it seemed that the good things and sweet things were doubly good and sweet to them in proportion as they saw them enjoyed by their fellow-students, and the cake, and the cans, and the various other things were passed around. But no one lost by it When a box was finished there were plenty of others to replace it, and it was, after all, but an exchange of good things. Two splendid turkeys were drawn from the Junior Department’s Christmas tree by Charlie McDermott and J. V. Cabel, and in due time ornamented the heads of the various tables at which these young gentlemen sit. There was enough
for all, and to spare. We think we’ve got as fine a lot of young gentlemen at Notre Dame this year as ever graced the halls of this or any other college.
—The “ Reds ” and “ Blues ” having, in a very accommodating spirit, challenged each other, a game was duly arranged for the first fine day. Last Wednesday being all that could be desired for playing football, both teams met, a.cording to agreement, on the Junior campus, at 1% p. m. C. Tinley, captain of the Reds, won the toss, and took the western goal. The Blues kick off, but the ball is stopped by the Reds forwards, and worked down into their grounds; gradually it nears the goal line, and then played into right field and worked in an oblique direction towards the eastern goal, but is forced back after a severe struggle and again approaches the Reds’ ground when M. J. Burns, taking the ball from a pass back, drives it with a drop-kick within the goal. First goal for the Reds in one hour. A breathing spell of fifteen minutes being taken, the game is again resumed. The second kick-off goes over the forwards and is played awhile in the Blues’ ground; by starts it approaches the goal line, but the ball sails through the air a few feet outside the goal line. It is started out, but back again it comes, and moves from east to west, the play being generally on the Reds’ grounds, Now and then it is kept in the centre. The last few minutes of the game the Blues fight harder, but it is of no use; the ball nears the Reds’ goal and is kicked in by Alex Caren. Time, twenty-five minutes. As tor the playing of both teams, it was, to use the words of George W. Crummey, of ’74, who witnessed the game, “ Simply magnificent.” The men supported each other splendidly at each point We noticed particularly the playing of Roger Semmes and Charlie Tinley, the two captains; J. Brown, A Bodine, A. Caren, J. Coleman, F. Dever, Rob Fleming, G. Foster, J. Gibbons, R. Le Bourgeoise, J. Larkin, P. Nelson, Elmer Otis, A. Reinboldt, A. Rietz, H. and C. Rose, A. Rock, J. Schobey, and F. Scheid.
[From the South-Bend Baily Register, Jan. 8.]
Lineals of the Loadstone.
INTERESTING LECTURE ON MAGNETS AND ELECTRO-MAGNETS BY PROF. J. A. ZAHM.
A lecture on “ Magnets and Electro-Magnets; their properties and uses,” was delivered in the opera house, last evening, by Rev. J. A. Zahm, of Notre Dame, for the benefit of that institution. The attendance was fair, and a majority of those present were interested in the information conveyed in the lecture and its accompanying experiments, the preparations for which were of the most elaborate character. The stage was well occupied with apparatus to be used in illustrating the points of the lecture, some of which was procured especially for this occasion, and, as Father Zahm stated, no labor or expense had been spared to make the lecture interesting and instructive.
Al 8 o’clock, Father Zahm was introduced to the audience by Hon. L. Hubbard, and at once entered upon the task of explaining as far as lies in human power the mysteries of the loadstone and its relation with electricity, in the production of the electro-magnet. Father Zahm is youthful in appearance, as he is in years, but a man of fine presence, and carries a head on his shoulders that rises to an intellectual dome of unusual height. His language was well suited to the popular style of lecturing, through its simplicity and succinctness, and the lecture was so profusely illustrated by experiments that the audience was kept wide awake to every point introduced. '	'
In the limited time to-which-a lecture must be confined the speaker could give no more than an outline of the subject, but this was done in such a comprehensive and comprehensible manner that a clear and intelligent idea of the subject was easily obtained. He began with the loadstone, and gave its component parts as 73 per cent of pure iron to 27 cent of oxygen gas. The first property of the loadstone, attraction, was illustrated by dipping one into a box of nails and lifting out a mass of them. Artificial magnets were next considered. They are made by passing a current of electricity around a piece of iron or steel, and the longer and stronger the current the more powerful the
282
*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
magnet. Steel retains the power thus imparted, giving us the electro-magnet, while iron loses it on breaking the current. The distribution of power in the electro-magnet was illustrated by taking a small steel bar and showing that it attracted only at the ends—the poles—and if the bar were broken into a thousand pieces the action would be the same. Another interesting point in this connection was the difference in the forces of the two ends. Each electromagnet has a north and south pole, and the north pole of one magnet repels the north pole and attracts the south pole of another magnet, and ‘Dice versa. This is one of the fundamental principles of magnetism. Another point was that the magnetic needle does not point exactly north and south, but to the magnetic poles, several degrees removed from the terrestrial poles, for the reason that the earth is a magnet. An exception to this is the action of the needle at Pittsburg, where the poles are in a direct line, at Baffin’s Bay, where the needle points west, etc. The dipping needle was next introduced, showing the deflection of the earth. At the equator the needle stands parallel with the horizon. As it approaches the north pole it deflects, and at the pole stands perpendicular. Passing on around the earth the needle makes one revolution in the circuit. There are variations from this rule, also, during what are called magnetic storms, and at other times for various reasons unknown, when the needle is much disturbed.
The relation of electricity to magnetism was next considered, and the. history of its discovery traced back to Prof. Ehrsted. Arrago subsequently showed the attraction of copper, with an electric current passing through it, for iron filings, and from this and Prof. Ehrsted’s experiments came the artificial magnet. Several styles of magnets were then introduced: The cylinder wrapped with coils of wire; the magic circle, consisting of two semicircles of iron, which when changed and placed in contact could not be pulled apart by the professor and his assistant; the horseshoe magnet, more powerful for its poles, being near each other, and the office of the armature which connects the two poles of the magnet, thereby completing the circuit, receiving the magnetic force and increasing the power of the magnet; the action of awheel on the horseshoe magnet; the horseshoe electro-magnet, and the residual magnetism operating after breaking the current of electricity, the amount increasing with the impurity of the iron.
This brought the lecturer to the monster electro-magnet recently donated to Notre Dame by a friend, which occupied a prominent position on the stage, and an interesting history of large electro-magnets, beginning with one constructed py Prof. Henry, of Yale college, in 1831. The largest one in the country is at Stephens’ institute, in Hoboken. The electro-magnet on exhibition is wrapped with 3,800 feet of wire, which weighs about 400 pounds, and the complete instrument weighs about a ton. Its power is sufficient with a suitable battery to sustain a weight of five or six tons, such as the weight of the audience or the big bell at Notre Dame. On this occasion a battery of only four cells was used, whereas to develop the full power of the magnet one of 25 or 30 cells would be necessary. An armature was then placed on the magnet, and volunteers were called tor to lilt it. Mr. Hubbard and Mayor Tong failed to budge it, but B. C. Thorpe and another young man succeeded by a powerful effort in removing the armature. The next experiment was passing an iron rod between the points of two armatures placed on the poles of the magnet without touching either. No one accomplished it, but the professor explained that it was possible by reason of a neutral line between the poles, if one’s nerves were steady enough to follow it.
Magnetism by induction was then illustrated by the lecturer placing his back against-the magnet and holding an iron bar to his breast with which nails and other me-talic weights were lifted, and by holding the bar at a distance of fiileen feet from the magnet, where it operated successfully. The making of magnets was next illustrated by passing pieces of steel over the electro-magnet. The lecturer then referred to other uses of electricity, such as the electric telegraph, the alarm-bell system, propelling of clocks, and continued motion. This last afforded an interesting experiment, in which an electric engine was made to operate a pump. In answer to the question as to why elec
tricity is not used as a motive power, he explained that the necessary consumption of zinc and sulphuric acid is more expensive than of wood and coal. On the other hand, in the use of electricity much less force would be lost and more effective work would be done, and yet the difference would not be sufficient to compensate for the difference in expense; so that until some cheaper system of producing electricity is obtained, wood and coal will have the preference. Edison’s electric light was then referred to, and the lecture closed with a statement of the theories advanced as to the cause of magnetic force.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. B. Berteling, A J. Burger, J. P. Brice, J. G. Brady, F. M. Bell, F. Brennon, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. Clarke, F. L. Clements, T. B. Campbell, D. Donohue, J. Delaney, J. Dempsey, M. English, E. Fogarty, E. Gooley, L J. Gittings, J. Halloran, F. Humbert, A Hayden, G. Harris, T. Hinderlang, D. Harrington, R. C. Johnson, C. L. Johnson, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, J. Kurz, T. Kavanagb, F. Kinsella, P. B. Larkin, A. A Lent, J. B. McGrath, VV. B. McGorrisk, Ed. McGorrisk, M. J. McEniry, J. O. McNerny, E. Murphy, Ed. Molitor, J. McErlain, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, M. Maloney, J. Malone, L. Mathers, J. F. Mug, J. Noonan, J. Osher, R. C. O’Brien, J. F. O’Connell, Geo. Pike, W. Ryan, F. Reeve, P. F. Shea, J. Solon, H. Wathan, C. Whalen, A Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Browne, A. A Bodine, H. W. Bachman, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, G. C. Castanedo, J. V. Gabel, A. A Caren, A E. Conyne, J. D. Coleman, H. P. Dunn, T. Dever, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Koster, O. J. Farrelly, H. G. Foote, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A Gibbons, A C. Hierb, J. A Hermann, J. Homan, F. R. Johnson, F. A Kleine, P. A Joyce, R. L. Le Bourgeois, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, E. C. Orrick, E. A Otis, A P. Perley, G. J. Quinn, A K. Rheinboldt, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, A S. Rock, R. J. Semmes, J. A Simms, J. K. Schobey, J. A. Seeger, F. C. Scheid, C. A Tinley, C. Thiele, M. A Vedder, W. T. Weney.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. R. Coolbaugh, D.G. Taylor, E. A* Howard, F. Mattes, C E. Droste, J. S. Courtney, A. Van Mourick, G. P. Van Mourick, H. A. Kitz, W. V. O’Mally, J. S. Chaves, J. R. Bender, J. A Kelly, A. F. Schmuckle, W. Wright, E. N. O’Donnell, L. W. Spaulding, J. H. Dwenger, L. J. Young, G. Kuight, A A Molander, J. Johnson, J. E. Bannister.
Class Honors.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes ot the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, J. Homan, E. Litmer, J. Hermann, C. F. Rietz, W. Rietz, J. Gibbons, R. Semmes, C. Perry, H. Rose, C. Rose, C. Roberts, F. Carter, F. Grever, W. J. McCarthy, M. Maloney A Keenan, R. Le Bourgeois, A. B. Mer-gentheim, G. Castanedo, F. Phillips, G. Riiodius, A Manning, A Hierb, R. Pomy, J. H. Morgan, A Burmeister, J. Weitzel, A Hellebusch, F. Kleine, H. Bachman, P. Maguire, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. Burns, E.Molitor, J. McEniry, J. Cable, J. Mug, G. E. Clarke, T. Campbell, R. Campbell, D. Donahoe, D. Harrington, A Hayden, J. Jordan, J. P. Kinney, A. Keenan, R. O’Brien, T. Simms, F. Wall, J. Rogers, A J. Burger, W. Connolly, W. Megee, J. S. Ashe, J. Strawn, B. Pollock, R. Keenan, F. Quinn, C. Hagan, J. Guthrie, E. Fogarty, E. Sugg, C. Tinley, J. Keena, F. Bloom, L. Stitzel, B. Claggett, R. O’Connor, K. Johnson, J. Carrer, C. F. Kinsella, M. Maloney, J. H. Marlett.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, J. M. Courtney, W. R. Coolbaugh, C. E. Droste, F. Mattes, E. A. Howard, L. W. Spaulding, G. E. Tourtillotte, F. B. Farrelly, J. W. Bannister, A F. Schmuckle, A Van Mourick, G. P. Van Mourick, H. C. Snee, J. S. Courtney, W. V. O’Malley, J. A Kelly, J. R. Bender, W. Wright, J. E. Johnson, A. A Molander, E. N. O’Donnell, C. Young. ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
283
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
Farewell to the Old. Year: Welcome to the New.
i.
Let no sad tear defile the bier
Of the brave old departed year;
His stately form, a fortress warm,
Has cheered, has sheltered ’mid the storm.
ii.
Mid wars which rage, which time must wage Alike on youth, on prime, on age, Old Seventy Nine, has borne the sign That he was led by Hand Divine.
in.
Pass on Old Year! Thy memory dear Unsullied by reproach, by fear, Is sweet to trust! Thy record just Shall shine in gold above the dust 1*
IV.
May Eighty stand with proof as grand
That we dwell in Faith’s Promised Land;
That hearts are brave this side the wave, The cause of truth to shield, to save.
* The generosity with which the friends of the venerable Archbishop of Cincinnati came forward to his assistance in his pecuniary disaster, and the hearty sympathy extended to Notre Dame when her University buildings were burned to the ground are two incidents which will render the year 1879 one forever memorable in the record of noble deeds; one which shall stamp magnanimity as the national characteristic of Americans.
St. Mary’s, Dec. 31st 1879.
F
A

—The semi-monthly Academic report is not given this' week on account of the interruptions.
—The harvest of ornamental needle work, which at Christmas was gathered in the Ornamental needle workroom, and which has been garnered away in the various sweet homes of St. Mary’s pupils, in the form of Christmas gifts, will soon be succeeded by another no less fruitful,—a harvest to be completely ripened about the middle of next June. It is expected that every Senior, Junior, and Minim, will carry home at the end of the year some souvenir of her handiwork with the needle. The medal for Domestic Economy, too, grows brighter as the scholastic year approaches its second term.
—Visitors: Rev. Father Knox, St. John’s, N. B.; Mrs. Bruser, Mrs. Rive, Vicksburg, Miss.; Mr. Orr, Peru, Ohio ; Mr. Dessaint, Davenport, Iowa; Mr. Wilkins, Jackson, Tenn.; Judge Wells and Mrs. Wells, Denver, Colorado; Mr. Murphy, Oswego, New York; Mr. Walker, Mr. Corbett, Fort Wayne; Mr. Lawlor, Miss Shea, South Bend; Miss Anna Curtin (Graduating Class, of ’75), Hudson, O.; Mr. Evans, Mr. Giggy, Lagrange, Ind.; Mrs. Droste and Miss Droste, Cincinnati; Mrs. Ryan, Joliet, Ill.; Mr. O’Leary, Middletown, Ohio; Mr. Clifford, Springfield, Mass.; Miss Hallowey, Sumption Prairie, Ind.; Miss Deavitt, New Carlisle.
—The midnight Mass was celebrated by the Rev. Chaplain, who preached an appropriate sermon. The adornments of the Chapel, and the representation of the stable of Bethlehem were in good taste. The music at the Mass ofthe day was worthy of mention. The “ Glory to God,” of Haydn, and the Christmas Pastoral, “Nolite timere” were particularly beautiful. Mother Superior met the young ladies in the Confraternity-Room after the Mass of the day, and received their congratulations. At New Years, a more formal entertainment gave the pupils a better opportunity of expressing their good wishes. An address on the part of the Seniors was read by Miss Woodin, and one on the part of the Juniors, by Sophie Papin. Accepting the addresses, Mother Superior thanked the young ladies, and said their beautiful expressions of gratitude and love were received by her in the name of their
parents. She was the representative; all the affection and devotedness expressed towards her “redounds to your beloved parents; for their sake I receive them.” Many beautiful reflections on the love which is naturally manifested between parents and children during this festival season were added, and as the pupils offered their felicitations personally, the ladies who were present were moved to tears, so touching were the remarks exchanged.
—A. cloud has spread over the opening year, in our sorrow for the death of Rev. Father Edward Lilly, whose nearest and dearest dwell beneath St. Mary's roof. From St. Mary's Chimes of Dec. 14th, w.e extract the following card of sympathy, to show the sad event was not unexpected :
“ILLNESS OF BEV. FATHER LILLY.
“ The most cordial sympathy is entertained for our beloved Directress of the Musical department, her dear little Assistant, and'Mrs. Redman, in their present affliction: the illness ofthe Rev. Father Lilly. We regret to say, his disease will undoubt, edly prove fatal: however, in this remarkable year of the Silver Jubilee of the Immaculate Conception—the declaration of the great dogma,—it is a consolation to feel that this “ Lilly ” of the earth will be transplanted, and blossom, as we trust, a lily in heaven.”
The New Year had not opened, before the seal of death was set. If sympathy for the loss of one in whom genius was crowned with the higher glory of priesthood, was so warmly cherished previous to his departure, it is now augmented a hundredfold. The most tender and affectionate condolences are proffered to those so closely united to the deceased by the ties of “ nature and of grace.” On the morning of New Year’s, Rev. Father Shortis paid a loving tribute to the dead, and his testimony would almost preclude mourning, for in the case of Father Lilly we may well say “ 0 death where is thy sting ? ” Requiescat in pace.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dufal and Very Rev. Father Cham-bodut, of Galveston, Texas, paid St Mary’s a visit of several days. On New Year’s day the young ladies invited the Rt. Rev. and Very Rev. gentlemen to the Vocal Class room, where the following programme was performed:
NEW YEAR’S CONGRATULATIONS.
IN HONOR OF THE RT. REV. BISHOP DUFAL AND VERT REV.
FATHER CHAMBODUT, GALVESTON, TEXAS. Fantasia.....................................Joachim Reff
Miss Dillon.
Compliment frangais pour le jour de Pan asa Grandeur Mgr. Dufal eveque de Galveston....................Miss Keenan
Song...............................................Torry
Miss Gordon.
New Year Greetings to the Rt. Rev. Bishop Dufal. ..Miss Dallas Holiday Good Wishes to Very Rev. Father Chambodut, Vicar General........................................Miss	Ryan
Song............................................Meyerbeer
Miss Kirchner.
Recollections of Vienna............................Liszt
Miss Galen.
Rev. Father Condon, of the University, and the Rev. As
sistant Chaplain of St. Mary’s, also a number of visitors were present. The Rt. Rev. Bishop and his Very Rev. Vicar-General gracefully responded to the addresses, and seemed gratified by the entertainment, and the efforts of the young ladies to render the occasion a happy one.
Tablet of Honor.
FOB. POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Killelea, Ewing, Neteler, A. Ryan, Quinn, Galen, L Semmes, Kirchner, Gordon, Dillon, Neu, Otto, Mitchell, Winston, Smith, O’Neil, Mattingly, Loeber, Fitzgerald, Gall, Dallas, Bruser, McMahon, C. Wathan, S. Wathan, Zahm, Piersol, Campbell, Keys, Murphy, Simms, Lancaster, Taylor, Keena, Dessaint, Baroux, Halloran, Moxon, Edelen, Tallman, par excellence. Misses Keenan, Hackett, Wall, Price, McFadden, Cox.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Feehan, A. Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, Orr, French, S. Semmes, E. Hackett, S. Papin, E. Dallas, Moll, G. Taylor, McCloskey, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Duncan, Reutlinger, Barlow, Hutcheson, Harrison, E. Papin, Considine, M. Fitzgerald, Wilkins, Robinson, M. Baroux, par excellence. Misses Lemontey, Clarke, L Hackett.
284
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mary’s Academy,
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical _____________and Preparatory Departments.
!^“ NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate room" for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recitals.
Tn the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL VIAIJL. STEAMERS. NEW YOBE to QUEENSTOWN and LIVEBPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER. 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS. 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York;
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, octS-rf	JL.il Porte, Indiana.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
RAILROAD.
Depots, foot of Lake St., Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St., and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St. and at the depots.
Leave. Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger.....* 7:25 a.m.	* 7:30 p.m
Nebraska and Kansas Express.....* 9:30 a.m.	* 4:05 p.m
Rockford and Freeport Express...*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Dubuque and Sioux City Express..*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Pacific Fast Express..........*10:30	a.m. *3:40 p.m
Kansas and Colorado Express.....*10:30 a.m. * 3:40 p.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation....*8:25 a.m. ♦ 1:35 p.m Aurora Passenger................ *3:15	p.m. *7:55a.m
Mendota and Ottawa Express......* 4:35 p.m. *10:40 a.m
Aurora Passenger................* 5:30 p.m. * 8:55 a.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation....* 6:15 p.m. * 7:15 a.m Freeport and Dubuque Express....* 9:30 pm.* 6:35 a.m Pacific Night Express for Omaha.+ 9:05 p.m. J 6:55 a.m Texas Fast Express..............* 9:05 p.m. $ 6:55 a.m
Kansas City and St Joe Express..+ 9:05 p.m. $ 6:55 a.m
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleeping Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.___________________________________________ ♦Sundays excepted. tSaturday excepted. ^Monday excepted.
For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations apply to
C. W. Smith,	James R. Wood,
Traffic Manager,	- Gen. Pass. Agent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Care and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the ■world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KAN-SA8 CITY, CHICAGO and ST.'LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LODIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tile Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the Morth and South, and to and from Kansas Lands' and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office In the United States and Canada, or to
James Chablton, General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.-
W. C. Van Hobnb,	J. C. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent	Gen’l Manager.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	285
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 1«, 1879.
	♦Man	♦Day Express.		♦Kal. Accom.	+ Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 » 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 80 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 »		4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 335 “	910 pm 1139 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 800 “
	♦Man	♦Day Express.		♦Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo--“ Niles - - - -“ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago —	7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 « 7 40 “		5 55 p. m 4 50 a, m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 pm. 12 45 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 3 30 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Niles and Soli til Bend Division.						
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “			Lv. Ar.	♦GOING SOUTH. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 415 p.m. N. Dame—7 40 “ 4 48 “ • So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “		
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and. Sunday excepted. Hbnbt C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.						
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	,
GOING EAST.	'
9 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p. m; buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 03 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m;
Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4a.m.
13 16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 13 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 240 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight. GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Rapp, Ticket Agt., South Bend. J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland. J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
Condensed Time Table,‘Nov. IO, 1878.
The Chicago & North-Western Bailawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its uumerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa ’ Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
r is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyomingj Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LIN
*	is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northe
Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE x is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
' GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago aud Janesville, Water-*■ town, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its '
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE r is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland * Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, ly No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, ’< corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home <	ticket agents, apply to
W- H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3. Night Ex	No. 5, Man.
Pittsburg,	Leave	11.45 p.m.	9.00 a.m.	1.50 p.m.	8.00 A.M.
Rochester,		12.53 a.m.	10.12 “	2.55 “	7.45 “
Alliance,		3.10 “	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,		4.50 “	2.26 “	7.13 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,				7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline^	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave	7.50 A.M.	540 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	_________
Forest		9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 ‘	
Lima			10.40 “	900 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,		1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 ‘	
Plymouth,			3.50 “	2.46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago, /.... Arrive	7.00 “	8.00 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
	No. 4. Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, AtlanJEx.	No. 8 Mail.
Chicago	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	_ - 			
Plymouth,	 Kt Wayne,	-	2.46 a.m. 655 “	11.48 “ 2.25 p.m.	8.55 11.30 “	
Lima,/		8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A M	_ A * *	_ — A
Forest,		10.10 “	5.27 “	2.33 “	_ * — * _ *
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “	
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p M.	4.15 a.m.	6.05 a.m.
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,		2.28 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		400 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 P.M.
Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p,m.	3.30
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line tha’ runs the celebrated Pullman Palack Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates;
F. & m G. P. & T. A.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
___r-grir.-c.--..-.—A.
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sobin,'and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge ?of Chris tian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selectedso that no pains are spared to secure the objects wmch the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. Cn Notre Dame P. On Indiana.