The Scholastic.
Volume VII.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE
pTUDENTS.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 17, 1874.
Number 21.
-	Ths Philoiemic Society.
Mr. Editor:—Dear sir,—It is some time since yon have had any correspondence from the Philodemic Society, and it may seem to yourself and the readers of your journal that the Philodemics are doing nothing, or at least that they are doing but little. But this is not the case; and it must not be inferred though they do not court publicity that they are at all afraid to do so. The fact is that those who properly attend to their affairs have but little time, and less ta«te, to seek notoriety. And so it is with the Philodemics.
The present scholastic term is indeed with them a golden harvest. They have probably accomplished more since the beginning of the term than has ever been accomplished in so short a period, not only by the same society in previous years, but by any society of the kind. You will surely acquiesce with me in this when I inform you that they are under the able directorship of the Reverend • Father Carrier, who has during the last few years manifested a most kindly interest in their wellfare, and the efficient presidency of the Reverend Mr. J. Zahm, who gives the society tone and dignity by his presence, as well as edification by his wise and instructive counsel. As for the members, Mr. Editor, your own former experience of the Society will surely convince you that nobody bears the name of Philodemic who does not deserve the honor. In all periods of the world’s history, societies, communities, and nations have had among them those of whom they were justly proud. And so it is with the Philodemic Society. It has indeed just cause to be proud of its active as well as its honorary members,—and among the latter it reckons some who occupy an eminent and honorable place in American literature.
The thirteenth regular meeting of the present scholastic term, and the first of the present year, was held on the evening of January eighth, in the Circulating Library Room. Though the C hristmas Holidays were scarcely over, only three of the members were absent. What was rather unusual, and owing to the festivity of the season which had just preceded, there was neither a declamation to be delivered nor an essay to be read. After the calling of the roll, and the reading of a short criticism on the previous meeting by Mr. Gillen, the debate, which is always the peculiar feature of the meetings, when there is not a lecture, was commenced. Its subject was: " Resolved, That all our Public School Money should be paid for the benefit of the Public Schools.” Affirmative,—Messrs. B. J. McGinniss and J. J. Gillen; Negative—Messrs. P. O’Meara and E. McSweeney. The debate was opened by Mr. McGinniss, who proceeded in an able and logical manner to stale the benefits accruing from the Public School system. He purposely departed from the usual method of debating by reading two essays on the’subject, the first entitled “ Free Schools,” the
second, “Is the present Educational System Essential to Free Institutions?” These essays are really models**of taste and good reasoning, and the illustrations in them are clear, logical and concise. Taking them all through, they would do credit to the most ardent advocate of the Public School system. Mr. McGinniss has, in addition to his good taste and sound reasoning, an excellent style of delivery, including that indefinable quality which compels attention and at the same time pleases and animates, whether or not one is willing to be attentive, pleased, or animated.
Mr. O’Meara, who was first on the negative, proceeded systematic illy to refute the arguments adduced by his opponent. He spoke with much earnestness—indeed almost bordering on pathos. He had but few notes, yet he spoke at great length, and with an effect that indicated careful preparation and much reflection. He does not so much rely on eloquence of style and beauty of diction as upon plain and solid facts; when fully conscious of the right on his side of the house, he becomes quite animated, and does not ignore the graces of rhetoric. How for he succeeded in refuting his opponent’s arguments is not for me to say since the decision of the President has not yet been given.
Mr. Gillen, second on the affirmative,'was next in order. As a matter of course, his first duty was to refute the arguments brought forward by his immediate opponent. This he proceeded to do, not merely by logical formula hut also with much animation. Having to his satisfaction battered down the strong fortifications of his opponent, he proceeded to construct fortifications of his own, by adducing many and powerful arguments in favor of the Public School system, and citing as an example the New England school system, of which he has evidently more than a superficial knowledge, and which, it must be confessed, is the best regulated common school system in the country. Though he did not speak long, he evinced careful preparation and a thorough knowledge of his subject. Mr. Gillen has a faculty of refuting the arguments of others, as well as a strong and active one for adducing and maintaining arguments of his own. Though not ostentatious of ornament, what he says is always elegantly and pleasingly expressed. This, in connection with his graceful delivery, secures him the sympathy of his hearers, and does much towards a decision in his favor.
Mr. McSweeney, second on the negative, finished the body of the debate. It is not mecessary for me to say what this gentleman is capable of doing in a literary discussion, or what force of reasoning in connection with elegance of diction and propriety of language, accompanied by an earnest and pleasing expression, he has at his command, as he is well remembered by all who had the pleasure and advantage of listening to his able discourse last Commencement Day when representing the Law Department; He spoke for about half an hour, which time did not actu
162	TH E S CH O L A S T I C-.
ally seem ten minutes; still,'owing to the fact that the evening was already well advanced, he felt obliged to reject many arguments which in themselves would seem sufficient for a decision in his favor. He did not discuss the question merely as the problem, but immediately took up the facts as they are actually known to everybody, taking for granted that the Public Schools are good for those who desire to maintain them: but that the Catholic Church had condemned them as unfit to educate the children of Catholic parents, and that in some dioceses the Catholics who send their children to the Public Schools are actually under the ban of excommunication: that, therefore, it is morally impossible for Catholics to allow their chidren to be educated in the Public Schools—if education it may be called; that if the State insists upon Catholics sending their children to the Public Schools it is guilty of intolerance, which is contrary to the Constitution of the United States. From these general facts he adduced the following arguments: 'Catholics will not send their children to the Public Schools. The State cannot compel them to do so; therefore the State has not a right to do so. Catholics are taxed to support the Public Schools; since they will not-send their children to them they derive no benefit from this taxation: therefore this taxation is an injustice to Catholics.	•
In arguing these questions, he did not enter into minute details. But what he said was uttered more in a spirit of indignation and outraged justice, than in appeal to- sympathy or prejudice.
It may go down a little smoother to be taxed to educate other men’s children than to support their clergy, yet with regard to one’s financial circumstances the result is the same.- And this was one of the causes that made Mr. McSweeney indignant. Though showing feelings of exasperation, he did not suffer himself to close his arguments by leaving the feelings of his hearers shocked with outrage at injustice, but broke forth into a strain of his usually happy and pathetic eloquence, in which he vividly por trayed the valor and self-sacrificing patriotism in the war of the Revolution, as well as the loyalty to the Union during the late civil war, of those who are now unjustly obliged to pay a double tax for the education of their children.
Mr. McGinnis rapidly summed up the arguments of his opponent, and of course refuted as many of them as could possibly be refuted. -He vehemently protested against anything going to the chair for decision that was not solid argument, based upon incontestable facts and figures.
Owing to the lateness of the hour, the President did not give his decision, as he deemed it necessary to sum up the arguments on both sides and compare notes, but reserved it till next meeting. However, time was taken to give out a subject, and appoint debaters for next meeting. Then,— to use the stereotyped phrase—no more buisness being before the house, the meeting on motion adjourned.
Having had the last debate .so much expatiated upon, you may be curious to know the subject of the next one. It is: “ Resolved, The Credit System now in vogue is Detrimental to the Public Welfare.” From this and the preceding one, Mr. Editor, you may safely infer that the Philodemics do not discuss trivial matters, but matters of general interest and requiring.much preparation. Nor is there talent wanting in the society to discuss such matter. The fact of its embracing the whole Law Class, excepting those who are post-graduates, is a sufficient guaranty of
its competency to discuss any question, legal or literary, that may be under consideration.
Though the main object of the society is the investigation of truth in political and historical matters, together with the cultivation of eloquence and literature, yet there is no body of persons more appreciative of aesthetics in general, and elocution especially; and I am most happy to state that in this respect they are peculiarly favored by having as members some of Notre Dame’s most accomplished elocutionists.
Such is a statement of the Phllodemic Society commencing the present year. I beg you will pardon my trespassing so much upon your columns.	.
Yours very respectfully,
M. Foley, Cor. Sec. pro tem.
Mary's Heart.
i.
Life’s thread is frail.' Nor friends nor peer : Can e’er the pangs of Death assuage ;
Round hopeful youth he hovers near, And dogs fore’er the path of age.
L Yes, all must die, and pass away, -. All, all must feel the victor’s dart, But loid and slave may claim the ray ’ , Which issues e’er from Mary’s Heart.
'	IX.
Where billows roar in sullen glee, And dread Despair his victims seek, Those rays of love shine o’er the sea ~ To comfort all whose hopes are weak. ■ The mariner knows those saving beams More potent are than helm or chart, And prays to her, whose goodness streams Like torrents, from her Virgin Heart.
in.
When cannons roar and muskets peal, The wounded soldier gazes round, Death’s stupor o’er his senses steal, He feels his heart more freely bound.
Baek fly his thoughts to other days, And tears from out their sources start, A boy once more, he sings her praise, And venerates her loving Heart.
IV.
Forgotten are the victors’ cries, Unnoticed are his comrades’ tears,
He gazes on the sunlit skies.
No anguish in his face appears.
He passes from this world of woe, His features pale a joy impart, They wear a pure, unearthly glow,-— The soldier’s found the Virgin’s Heart.
v.
Should roses deck our pathways here, And wreaths of laurel crown each brow, We suffer must that shock severe, . ■ To victor Death obedience bow. .
Then comes the Judge, the Lord of might, To each a sentence to impart,—
O then they’ll bask in endless light -Who treasures lodged in Mary’s Heart I
VI.
Then let the winds of winter shriek, And summer’s heat oppressive feel, I’ll find that land where angels speak
In joyful tones, and lowly kneel
THESCHOLASTIC. -	led
Before the throne of their bright Queen, Whose presence bids the fiends depart, And legions pure are ever seen
Who shrined their hopes in Mary’s Heart.
Celt.
f
f
Coca..
This is a plant of which the consumption in its own country is immense. Its qualities in some measure resemble those of the well-known narcotics opium and tobacco; and yet its name is as yet unknown in the markets of the world. The coca-leaf is the great source of comfort and enjoyment to the Peruvian Indian; its use produces invigorating effects which are uot possessed by other stimulants.
From the most ancient times the Peruvians have used this beloved leaf, and they still look upon it with religious veneration.
In the time of the Incas it was sacrificed to the sun, and before the arrival of the Spaniards was used instead of money. It grows in the sultry valleys on the eastern slopes of the Peruvian and Bolivian Andes, and is a plant with a shining green foliage and white blossoms, ripening into small scarlet berries.
The leaves are the only part which is used; and, when brittle enough to break on being bent, are stripped from the plant, dried in the sun, and closely packed in sacks.
The Peruvian Indian, reckons the habitual use of coca among the prime necessaries of life, and is never seen without his leathern pouch filled with a provision of its leaves, and containing besides a small box of carbonate of potash, which he prepares by burning the stalk of the quinoaplant, and mixing the ashes with lime and water.
At least three times a day he rests from his work to chew his indispensable coca. Carefully taking a few leaves out of the bag, and removing their midribs, he masticates them into the form of a small ball, which is called an acul-ico; then repeatedly inserting a thin piece of moistened wood into the box of potash, he introduces the powder, which adheres to it, into the acullico, until the latter has acquired the requisite flavor.
The taste of coca is slightly bitter and aromatic, like that of bad green tea, but the addition of the potash renders it less disagreeable to the European palate. It is a remarkable fact that the Indians who regularly use coca require but little food, and, when the dose is augmented, are able to endure the greatest fatigue, tasting hardly anything else.	.
. This astonishing endurance is supposed by some who inquired into the subject to proceed from a temporary excitement, which must be succeeded by a corresponding collapse; but it app’ears, on the contrary, that its moderate consumption is extremely wholesome, as there are examples of several Indians who, habitual coca chewers, attained the age of one hundred and thirty years.
A case is known of an Indian called Hatun Huamang, or, “Great Vulture,” who was employed during five successive days in making the most laborious excavations, and who never ate anything all the time, or. slept more than than two hours a night; but every three hours he chewed about half an ounce of leaves, and constantly kept his acullico in his mouth. When the work was finished, this Indian ran a great distance by the side of a mule, without
resting, except for the purpose of preparing an acullico; and said he would willingly do the work over again, provided he had a plentiful allowance of coca. According to the testimony of the village priest, he was sixty-two years old, and had never been ill all his life.	.
In the mines of the coal region of the Andes, the Indians derive great enjoyment from the use of coca; the running messenger, in his long journeys over the mountains and deserts, and the shepherd, watching his flock on the lofty plains, has no other nourishment than is afforded by • his coca and a little maize.
It has not only the property of enabling a greater amount of fatgue to be borne with less nourishment, but it prevents the occurrence of difficulty of respiration in ascending steep mountain sides. Applied externally it moderates the rheumatic pains caused by cold, and cures headaches. When used to excess, it is, like everything else, prejudicial to the health; yet, of all the narcotics used by man, it is the most soothing and invigorating.
After the conquest of Peru by the Spaniards, they vainly endeavored to prevent its use, and even to root up the plants, on account of its connection with the superstitions of the country, but they could not succeed; and the testimony of the Spaniards themselves to the strength-giving properties of coca was so powerful, that, at last, credit was given to the Indians for using coca “ from necessity, and not from vicious gluttony.”
For the information of our more scientific readers, we may say that the botanical name of the coca plant is Ery-thoxylon coca.—Illustrated Catholic Magazine, London. -
The Oldest Oil-Painting.—The oldest oil-painting now in existence is believed to be a Madonna with Child in her arms, with an E is tern countenance. It has marked on it the date, which is thus expressed, DCCCLXXXVI. If we express these with Arabic characters, it would make 886; and the period of this piece would fall about the time of Basilius or Charlemagne. This singular and valuable painting formed part of the treasures of art in the old palace of the Florentine Republic, and was purchased by the Director, Bencivenni, from a broker in the street fora few livres.	'
Sir Humphrey Davy, who witnessed the liquefaction of the blood of St. Januarius wh;le he was at Naples, carefully examined it, and declared that chemistry, so far as he knew it, could not account for the liquefaction. It made a deep impression on his mind, as he did not attempt to conceal, and was perhaps one of the causes that inclined him to the Catholic Church from the time of that visit. He thought seriously of entering that one fold, and many have believed he did so before his death. A full history of this great miracle from the pen of an eminent divine, is published by Tne Catholic Publication Society, New York.
Giant Trees in Australia.—In this country and many other parts of the world, comparatively recent discovered, trees of great age and size exist. Of the Eucalyptus species one was cut down in the Dandenong Range, Australia, iii 1868. At one foot from the ground its circumference was 69 feet; at 12 feet from the ground the diameter was 11 feet 4.inches; at 78 feet the diameter was 9 feet: at 144 feet, 8 feet; at210 feet the diameter was reduced to 5 feet. The total height of the tree was 330 feet.
164
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Thfi Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Tune, at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should, he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: Onsyear.......................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Very Rev. Father Provincial is now on a visit to "Watertown, Wisconsin.
We seldom hear from our old friend, Father Demers, who bravely weathers it out at St. Joseph, Missouri.
Prof. Ivers has presented himself with a horse and buggy, and from what we can judge of his horsemanship he needs no lessons.	'
The Fort Wayne Daily Gazette, of January 15th, states that there is a Roman Catholic population of about 70,000 in the Diocese of Fort Wayne. The dioeese comprises only a portion of the State of Indiana, and contains 52 secular and 25 regular priests, 15 clerical students, 84 churches, 15 chapels, 3 churches in course of erection, 1 hospital, 6 religious institutions, 1 college, 10 orphan asylums, 15 female literary institutions, and 42 parish schools. The diocese was established in 1857, Right Rev. John H. Luers being consecrated first Bishop, in 1858; after the death of Bishop Luers in 1871, he was succeeded by Right Rev. Joseph Dwenger, D. D, the present Bishop, who was consecrated^ April 14, 1872. Although the statistics show some few' slight inaccuracies we have no doubt that they are correct* in the main, and entitle the Gazette to the thanks of its. Catholic readers.
The Minister of Agriculture in France announces in' his report on the International Exhibition at Vienna that more than 3000 rewards were given to French Exhibitors-in the departments of Industry and Fine Arts. This places France ahead of any other Continental nation. As to. Prussia, she was far behind, and made only a poor show,** except of big guns. Such is the sort of enlightenment so much bragged of by our Protestant contemporaries. Mf. Krupp is to-day the greatest civilizer of the world. As t<\ Austria,—poor benighted Austria! she was ahead of all. other nations in everything pertaining to schools, even much-ahead of this our fair land of boasted free-schools.
The civilizers of Italy have not made much headway/ during the thirteen years that they have lorded it over that country. Instead of 19,000,000 of illiterate in 1871, we, have now nearly 21,000.000, according to the reports of onef of its Ministers. In a few years more the whole nation will, be groping in darkness which would shame the times of. Alaric and Attila. Only 63 churches in Palermo have* been turned to profane uses! A library of 25,000 volumes^ many of which were precious tomes, were sold in the same" city for a little over 1300 francs!
Haverly’s Irish-American Illustrated Almanac, for 1874
P. Fox, 14 South Fifth St., St. Louis, Missouri. «.
We acknowledge receipt of the Almanac from Mr. Foxf It contains, besides the usual almanac matter, a large collection of anecdotes, historical reminiscences, and some' very good illustrations.
Eostpnexnmt.
The preparations for the grand Concert are going on with commendable energy, but owing to the fact that some important pieces of music have not been received in due time the Concert will be postponed from the 20th inst, / We hope the pieces in question will soon come to hand ;
due notice will be given of the time fixed upon for the Entertainment.
The Choir.
Tiiis excellent institution is now on a splendid footing, as was well proved last Sunday by its-magnificent rendition of Rev. Father Witt’s Mass. Bro. Leopold may justly feel proud of his singers; they surpassed our expectations. If this is the sort of chant that is allowable in Church Music, then we wonder why we have not had such music before There is as much plain chant in it as we care to have, and just as much music as satisfies the most fastidious ear.
We have not heard a finer church composition, nor did we ever feel more gratified by fine rendition. The sopranos deserve special mention for their excellent voices, and the good use they made of them. All the parts, and	|
the orchestra accompaniment, gave satisfaction. We wish	1
Brother Leopold God speed and the realization of his long-sought desires.
We are not enough of a musician to criticize, though we are a lover of good music, but it seems to us the singing of Vespers could be much improved upon. We are positively at a loss to know why a change of keys	I
by the organist is a kind of obligato two or three times	I
during a psalm. The organist ought to be able to control that; but perhaps the blower don’t blow lively enough! or perhaps the singers are unable to keep up with the organ! Something is wrong somewhere.
One Word, more about the Tabernacle.
As we were footing up the subscriptions of last November and December, for our New Tabernacle, we received 509 fr. ($100) from our Mother-Housi, in Paris, and $200 from an Irish lady who is not a millionaire, but, what is far better, who possesses a Christian and generous heart. With these two last subscriptions our list for 1873 a'mounts to very near §3 000.	’
We have been repeatedly asked during the past few weeks, how long the subscription would be open; we are authorized to say that the last payment not being due before the 15lh of April, some of the funds will not be needed before the latter part of March; but all the names to be engraven on the gold plate should j»e sent in without any delay.
We would exceedingly regret to cause again, even invol-untailry, any such disappointment as happened to some of our best friends some years ago, when we opened a similar list for the greht bell (13,000 lbs.) that was cast for us at Le Mans, by Ernest Bolle) the famous founder of the Buffalo chime. A certain number of names came in too late (fifty-five, some of them for $100 each); to repair the mishap, we did we thought the next best thing, viz.: a large and rich tableau was painted on the wall in one of the halls of the University, and upon it the fifty-five names were written in gold letters.
But when the bell was received, with its long list of
4
S C H O L A S T I O'.
165
names neatly cast in beautiful order on the smooth metal, some of our friends who had not heard of our public appeal felt slighted, and rather than be suspected of indiffer’	ence, twenty-five of them added their mines to the fifcy-
five already inscribed on the tableau, making a total of eighty names, which we would have a hundred times pre-
,	ferred to see on the imperishable metal.
1	We trust the same disappointment will not be renewed in
•	the case of the new Tabernacle; for we have reason to be'	lieve that when this great piece of religious art shall have
‘	been received and exhibited to the public gaze, whoever
I	will read his name on the gold tablet within will feel justly
W	proud of the honor; and if any of our friends be ignored
on the privileged list of munificent donors, we deprecate any other intention than that of having tried our best to make it known to all without scarcely calling upon any one personally.
‘	The question has been asked—honestly we presume—if
it was true that the design of our new Tabernacle had been
|	revealed from heaven. We reply: Most assuredly; and
we refer for the proof of it to the 20th chapter of the Apocalypse, where the said description is given in full. There may be, even on our Continent, many beautiful meritorious
• f ‘	and artistic designs of tabernacles; but of ours, no human
{	artist, but an angel, is to be credited with the merit of its
t	plan. Let all who wish to have a share in its donation to
j	Our Lady of the Sacred Heart send in their names at once.
Soil of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
F. Buter, J. Brown, A.. Baca, V. Baca, J. Berry, C. Basta-rache, J. Brogan, H. Cassidy, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, W. Clarke, P. Cooney, T. Cashin, H. Dehner, F*. Devoto, T. Daily, B. Euans, T. Flanagan, M.’Foley, J. Falvey, J. Fielding, C. Fal-vey, J. Girard, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, E. Graves, A. Hess, C. Hess, W. Hughes, E. Halpin, A. Horne, P. Hennessy, T. Hansard, E. Kimm, A. Martineau, T. McDonough, B. McGinniss, D. Mc-Ginniss, J. McDermott, M. McCullough, M. McGovern, E. McSweeney, T. Murphy, L. Murphy, J. McDonough, E. McLaughlin, J. O’Brien, P. O’Sullivan, P. O’Meara, P. O’Mahoney, H' Pendill, F. Pendill, J. Rudge, L. Sanders, F. Scrafford, J. Trab-bic, W. Van’t Woud, J. Wolfe, H. Walker, J. Mathews.
Junior Department.
Bonafacio Baca, Joseph Buchanan, Joseph Campbell, John Cassella, P. Corbett, Charlie Campeau, James Caren, John Cullen, James Delvecchio, John Doyle, John Dalley, John Ewing, George Gross, William Gross, William Green, Dennis Gorman, Bradley Hersey, Matthias Jeffers, Charlie Lane, Jerome Lynch, Belfield LeFevre, Michael McCormack, John McGrath, George McNulty, Joseph McHugh, Nathan Mooney, Charles Meyer, James Minton, Thomas Monahan, Joseph Marks, Fred Miller, Chauncy Nichols, E. L. Ratigan, W. Robinson, Frank Smyth, John Soule, William Schulthies, C. Stucker, James Smith, Louis Smith.
Class Honors. .
FRIDAY, JANUARY 9,1874.	’
Preparatory Department.	.
SENIORS.	.
O. Corcoran, W. Busch, L. Van’t Woud, P. Johnson, V. Hansen, J. McManus, M. Foley, J. Girard, C. Boman, W. Linberger, P. O’Brien, W. Fitzgerald, J. Kennedy, S. Marks, J. R. Mullin, C. O’Connor, F. O’Brien, W. Gaar, W. Hughes, H. Ackhoff, M. O’Day, T. Rourke, P. Hennessy, W. Converse, M. Jeffreys, T. McDonough, J. Egan, M. Caldwell, D. McGinniss, J. A. Murphy
J. Fielding, A. Chapoton, J. McDonough, R. Hutchings, E. O’Connell, M. Spillard, P. McDonald, T. Cashin, J. Brogan, C. Falvey, J. Boyle, G. Roulhac, P. Connor, V. Baca.	.
juniors.	.
M. McCormack, N. J. Mooney, G. Burbridge, H. Faxon, D. Greene, E. Degroot, F. Frazee, F. Tbalmann, M. Kinsella, J. Ewing, W. Ames, J. N. Dryfoos, F. Peril, G. Hart, C. Lane, F, Stamm, T. Sauvageot, B; Hersey, J. McIntyre, J. Lynch, A« Schmidt, J. Golsen, H. Zuber, T. Monahan, J. Buchanan, H. Miller, J. Rider, J. Keilty, V. Phelan, S. Kennedy, J. Marks, C. Hale, O. Tong, G. McNulty, C. Stucker, J. Minton, H. Hoerben, C. Campeau, E. O’Connor, C. O’Connor, J. O’Connor, D. Gorman, F. Miller, W. Schulthies, F. Wittlesberger, J. Cullen, J. Hooper, J. Dore, J. McHugh, W. Ohlen, H. Quan, L. Smith, J. Smith, C. Ruger, W. Chapoton, L. Munson, W. Gross, R. Downey, W. Robinson, C. Gove, F. Strong, D. Kelly, E. Grambling, J. Campbell, R. Walker, G. Lehman, J. French, F. X. Claffey, J. Nelson.
. All Around.
More snow. Prospects of a sleighride.	.
Let us have steam! Let us have steam!	• -
Green is not a bad color, after all, for a beard. I Examination is much commented on by the students. Prof. Ivers’ horse is not a bad equine. We do not know his best time.	'
Prof. Lyons left on Tuesday evening for Cleveland, where business called him.
Mr. Crummey, of St. Paul, spent Sunday with us. He was on his way to New York.
We were happy to hear frem our old friend, Mark Foote. He has fully recovered from his recent illness and is again in the rush of business.
Eber B. Gambee, of the Class of ’73, is a regular correspondent for the Toledo Review, of which paper Mr. H. Carr, also an old student of Notre Dame, is editor.
The mail-carrier for St. Mary’s is up in the world. He now sports a fiery steed. Well, his charge is a precious one.	.
The Ice-King smiled favorably on Notre Dame last week, and has been remaining with us since. The skaters are in great glee.	‘
Bulletins for December have been made out and sent to parents and guardians.
Extensive preparations are still being made for the coming Concert. It promises to be one of the finest entertainments ever given at the University.
The Seniors are now arranged in their refectory according to size. The small “ chaps ” are in front, and the larger ones back. It is difficult to tell who do the most work.
Very Rev. Father General has received a fine steel plate engraving of the prospected Tabernacle. It is indeed a handsome representation of a handsomer affair. The subscription list, we are glad to see, keeps still increasing.
That Literary Society which meets in the Circulating Library Room makes no little amount of noise with their eloquence every Tuesday evening. Can’t they give us some of it in public?
The other day, while passing through the yard, at the time suffering from a severe toothache, we heard one of the mischievous Minims remark “Ain’t that fellow got lots of cheek!,” Now wasn’t that cruel I	*
166
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Seniors and Juniors united their strength on Wednesday and cleaned the snow off the ice sufficiently to enj >y an afternoon’s good skating. This was the best skating there has been yet this season.
There are times in a man’s life when it is almost impossible for him to control his temper; one of these is when he falls on a place where the ice froze with the slippery side up', and turns around to see a crowd of the fellows laughing at him.
Subscriptions to the ITew Tabernacle.
[continued.]
Thomas Gallagher, San Francisco, California.....$10 00
Mrs. Ellen Gallagher, San Francisco, California.... 10 00
An Irish Lady................................... 200	00
Mother House of Holy Cross, Paris, France....... 100 00
D.	M. Harkins, Notre Dame, Indiana.............. 25	00
Bro. Thomas, Notre Dame, Indiana................. 25	00
E.	Grambling, Indianapolis, Indiana.............. 5	00
Miss Lizzie Edwards, Toledo, Ohio................ 10	00
Patrick Reynolds, Coldwater, Mich................ 10	00
A Friend, Boston, Mass........................... 10	00
Mrs. Col. Hammond, Renssalaer, Ind............... 10	00
Mrs. J. D. Clarke, Columbus, Ohio................ 10	00
[to be continued.]
Communication.
Editor of the Notre Dame ‘‘Scholastic.-’’—Our heart was made glad to-day—the 1st Sunday after Epiphany —in witnessing, for the first time since many a year, the evident and cheering signs of a revival of orthodox Church-music at Notre Dame. Since the death of the ever-regretted maestro, Max Girac, it may be truthfully said that the “abomination of desolation ” has (save on a few spasmodic occasions) reigned supreme in our Choir. May these premonitory signs bring on soon the full realization of our most exalted idea of what we conceive church-music should be, in style’as well as in execution!
Meanwhile, we beg leave to cheerfully extend our right hand as a token of approval for well directed attempts already made, and of encouragement for renewed efforts for future successes, to the intelligent Leader <>f the Choir, to the classic organist, and to each of the efficient choristers a cordial hand-shaking all around: “In paucis {Tertis) mutta?	C. C. J.
Mistakes of Fact.
Well do we remember that period of our eventful life when we were not half-serio, and toddled about in gingham aprons and copper-toed boots, kept ever bright by the frequent application of a piece of an old buckskin glove we always carried with us for that purpose. But better still do we recall to mind the difficulties we encountered in the science of numbers, for no sooner had we mastered the multiplication table and the mysterious process of “borrowing” and “carrying,” than we were ushered body and soul into the mazy labyrinth of fractions,—most vulgar and improper things to deal with. When, however, our feeble minds grasped the mighty idea that everything had two halves and only two, which were equal in all respects to
each other, our joy knew no bounds; we felt encouraged, and const quently applied ourselves with renewed energy to the study of other properties of numbers.
Times are changing and the theories of men are changing accordingly, hence even here in the very sanctuary of learning, some make so bold as to declare that a unit,—a congratulatory New Year’s address for instance, may possess the strange property of division into three halves.
O spirit of our departed! preceptor arise and vindicate the truth of your assertion, which we also were once.so rash as to deny, because we learned from sad experience that one half a rod would make an acher as well as three halves. Still, friends, let us be charitable, and trust that it is only in the aspiration of their ex/tuberance that these good people are led into the marshes of rhetoric.il English, and there all ideas of propriety are lost; mistakes indeed, are easily made. We remember having made a few ourselves-in our youthful days, and particularly on one occasion when a respected aunt sent us down town to buy some rose-tinted paper. We went into a drug-store to procure • the article; but, receiving no satisfaction, after refusing a preparation of aqua rosa we betook ourself to a printing-office, where, making known our wants, we were interrogated as to the purposes to which the article was to be applied. Our response was clear and to the point. We said that our aunt had some rose-tinted words and desired some paper to match. We were politely referred to a stationer’s. Never did we speak of colored words after that, and resolved that as few mistakes as possible should thereafter be made “ by	Joe.”
St. Cecilia Fhilomathean Association.
At the 20th meeting, held January 10th, after the regular exercises had been concluded, the President of the Association presented W. P. A Breen, of Fort Wayne, Indiana, a beautiful gold medal as a reward for his exemplary conduct, affable manners, and the energy and zeal displayed on all occasions generally, and particularly since he became a member.	J. F. Beegan, Cor. Secy.
St. Stanislaus Thilopatrian.
Th'-3rdan l 4th regular meetings were held respectively Jan. 7th and 11th. At these meetings Masters F. Claffey, Eddie Degroot, J. Kinsella and A. Mitchell were admitted members. Those who delivered declamations are, F. Weis-enberger, J. McIntyre, E. Degroot, F. Claffey, A. Mitchell and W. Darst. The Association is going on swimmingly, and will, in the course of three or four months, display their elocutionary powers in public.
W. Ohlen, Cor Sec'y.
We learn from the Illustrated News that a discovery in natural science has been made known at the Royal Society. The chief paper was by Mr. William Crookes, F. R. S. He suspended an exceedingly light lever arm of glass, about 1% inch long, to the end of a fibre of spun glass about 8 in. long, inside a glass tube. To each end of the lever arm a disc of pith rather smaller than a threepenny-piece, was fixed. As soon as the tube was full of air, the warmth of a finger outside the tube almost instantly repelled the -lever arm. .When there was a vacuum of thirty
THE SCHOLASTIC.
167
millimetres, which is easily produced by a common airpump, external heat would not move the arm. On the very prefect vacuum produced by a Sprengel pump being tried, the lever arm was repelled by the warmth from the Huger. Light also attracts or deflects the lever ami under like conditions. From the days of Sir Isaac Newton it has been believed that light could not produce .the mechanical motion of a lever arm in a vacuum; and this idea, based upon imperfect experiments, has been largely used by philosophers as an argument against the emission theory of light, supported by Newton. It is not really, however, the fact that the new experiments overthrow the wave theory of light, on which all the calculations as to the approach and recession of the fixed stars in relation to the solar system are based; the opposition is only apparent.—London Register.
Bov Lost.—Missing, from about the third of next month, 1873, a tall-complexioned young min about five feet six inches of age, height 37 years; had on when last seen a pair of swallow-tailed sealskin tro wsers with sausage stripes, fashionable mutton-chop waistcoat with cast-iron trimmings, double-barrelled frock coat with tripe collar and tobacco lining, watertight canvas boots with patent-leather tops laced up at the. sole; is deaf and dumb of one eye and hard of hearing with the other; is slightly pockmarked at the back of his head, stoops upright when he walks crooked, has a slight impediment in his look, and wears a grasshopper wiggle on his upper lip; whiskers cut off short inside ; was carrying an empty carpet-box in each hand*and' a wooden bag in the other, containing screw steamers, rail. way tunnels, and blacking; was born before his younger brother, his mother being present on the occasion. J. D.
Ax elderly lady, who was handling a set of false teeth in a dental office, and admiring the fluency with which the doctor described them, asked him: “ Can a body eat with these things?” “My dear madam, mastication can be performed with a facility almost equal to nature itself,” responded the doctor. “ Yes, I know; but can a body eat with them?” 	•
Brignoli’s atrocious English is well’ known. On one occasion, while stopping at the Continental Hotel, Philadelphia, his hairbrush was stolen from his room. The infuriated Italian rushed down to the office and propounded the following question to one of the clerks:—“ Clerruck! clerruck! Yesterday, I was one hairbrush; to-day, what ami?”
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, Jan. 11, 1874.
’ TABLET OF HONOR.
Senior Department.
Miss L. Neil, J. Walker, M. Walker, G-. Phillips, M.
Ball, J. Adams.	'
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN STUDIES.
Graduating Class—Miss L. Niel, R. Devoto, M. Brown, J. Walker, M. Kearney, R. Spier, L. West, M . Langdon, L. Dragoo. ’
First Senior—J. Kearney, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A.
Curtin, L. Dent.
Second Senior—J. Fanning, A. Keeline, G. Phillips,
C. Nasen, E. Sweeney, M. Riley, M. Foote, E. Denehey, A. T. Clark.
Third Senior—L. Ritchie, A. Minton, M. Barry, M. Ball.
First Preparatory—E. Ross, F. Hoyt, F. Taylor, E. O’Connor, R. Canoil, R. Klarr, C. Miller, B. Johnson. .
Second Preparatory—H. Miller, E. Mann, C. Strother, M. Quill, J. Haney, M. Poquette, A. Klotz.
Third Preparatory—A. Garies, F. Gunzert, K. Irmi-ter, J. Adams. -	'
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, t Is easy of access from all parts of the Uuited States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- l<=0 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	-- 10 00
Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing. - • - -- -- -- -- -15 CO Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, - - - -	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra -	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. X.EUO9TNXEB, C.S.C.
President.
THE BEST PAPER! TRY IT!
BEAUTIFFULLY ILLUSTRATED.
The scientific American now in as
29th year, enjoys the widest circulation of anv weekly newspaper of the kind in the world. A new volume commences January 3 1-74.
Its contents embrace the latest and most interes'ing information pertaining to the Industrial. Mechanical, and Scientific progress of the World; Descriptions, with beautiful engravings of New Inventions. New Implements, New Processes, and Improved Industries of all kinds; Useful No-es, Recipes, Suggestions and advice, by Practical writers, for Workmen and Employers, in all the various arts
The SCIENTIFIC AMERICANis the cheapest and best illustrated weekly paperpublished. Every number contains from 10 to 15 original engravings of new machinery and novel inventions.
ENGRAVINGS, illustrating Improvements. Discoveries, and Important Works, pertaining to Ci.il an<i Mechanical Engineering, Milling Mining and Metallurgy; Records of the latest progress in the Applications of Steam, Steam Engineering Railways, Shipbuilding. Navigation, Telegraphy, Engineering, Electricity, Magnetism. Light and Heat.
FARMERS, Mechanics. Engineers, Inventors, Manufacturers. Chemists, Lovers of Science. Teachers. Clersrvmen. I aw>ers, and People <~f all Prof, s«’"”«. wtti find the SCIENTIFIC AMERICANi eeful to them. It should hive a place it every Family, Library. Study, auu Couuuugkoom; in every Reading Room, College, Academy, or School.	.
A year’s numbers contain 832 pages and Several Hundred Engravings. Thousands of volumes are preserved lor binding and reference The । ractical receipts are well worth ten times the subscription price. Terms ?3 a year by mail. Discount to Clubs. Specimens sent free. May be had of all News Dialers.
"O A f 11 L	In connection with the JSCIEN-
L YA.±JDj1M IO. TIFIC AMERICAN, Messrs. Munn & Co. are solicitors of American and b< reign Pa.ents, and have the largest establishment in the world. More than fifty thousand applications have been made for patents through their agency.
Patents are obtained on the best terms. Models of New Inventions nd Sketches examined and advice free. All patents are pnblist ed in the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN the week they issue. Send tor pamphlet, 110 pages, containing laws and lull directions for obtaining Patents.
Address for the Paper, or concerning Patents, MUNN & CO., 37 Park Row New York. Branch Office,'cor. F and 7th Sts., Washing-on. D. C.	■	'
168
THE SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
WEEKLY, SEMI-WEEKLY, AND DAILY,
THE WEEKLY SUN is too widely known to require any extended recommendaiion: but the reasons which have already given it fifty thousand subscribers and which will, we hope, give it many thousands more, are briefly as follows:
It is a first-rate newspaper. All the news of the day will be found, in it. condensed when unimportant, ar frill length when of moment, and always presented !n a clear, intelligible, and interesting manner.
It is a first-rare family paper, full of entertaiing and instructive reading of every kind, but containing nothing that can offend the most delicate and scrupulous taste.
It is a first-rate story paper. The best tales and romances of current literature are carefully selected and legibly printed in its pages.
It is a first-rate agricultural paper. The mo.-t fresh and instructive articles on agricultural topics r« gularly appear in this department.
It is an independent political paper, belonsrinirtono party and wearing no collar. It fights for principle, and for the election ot the best men to office. It especially dev >tes it s energies to the exposure of the great corruptions tnat now weaken and disgrace our country, and threaten to undermine republican institutions altogether. It has no fear of knaves, and asks no favors from their supporters.
It reports the fashions for the ladies and the markets for the men especially *he cattle-markets, to which it pays particular attention.
Finally, it is the cheapest paper published. One dollar a year will secure it for any subscriber, iris not necessary to get up a club in order to have THE WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Any one who sends a single dollar will get the paper for a year.
We have no travelling agents.
THE WEEKLY SUN.-Eight pages, fifty-six columas. Only $1.00 a year. No discounts from this rate.
THE SEMI-WEEKLY SXT1V—Sdire size as theDii»ySnn. $2.00aye.r. Adiscountof 20 per cent, to clubs of IO or over.
TiI E DAILY SHIV•—A large four-page newspaper of twenty-eight columns. Daily circulation over 120,000. All tbe new< for 2cents ^subscription price. 50 cents a month or $G.OOayear. To clubs of IO or over a discount of 20 per cent. Address, “THE SUN, ” Kew York City.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of rhe above popular and reliable Hou-e, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. Iha travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay,
JERRY KN.GHT, 1 ProDrietorB Captain MILLS, f proprietors.
nov 15—tf.
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL DOUBLE TEAOK EAILEOAD.
' On and aft er Sunday, November 2,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.32 a. 3t. (No. 8i, Night Expre«s, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 30; Cleveland, 2.45 r. st.; Buffalo, 8.55 p m.
10.10 A. sr (No. 2). Mail, over Main and Aj Lines; Arrives at Elkhart. 10.50; Toledo. 510 p sr.
11.58 p sr. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. at.; Buffalo 4.05 A. 3i.
9.11 p. st. (No. 6'. Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. at.
5.10 P. 3i. (No 52), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
7.05 a. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.10; Chicago 11 a. st.
5.20 a. st. (No. 5). Pacific Express.. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, 8 fO a. si.
6.42 a. sr. (No. 9). Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7 35; Salem Crossing. 8.05; Grand Crossing, 9.37: Chicago 10.15.
5.45 p. 3i. (No. 1), Speciil Chicigo Express Main Line. Arrives ar Laporte, 6 40: Chicago, 9.1.0 r. sr.
9 10 a. 3i. (No. 51), Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through-Freight Trains. .
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PERSONS, Snp't Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S.	POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend. ’
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
^“Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9 and 15: East. Nos. 2, 10 and 16. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Line points change cars at Elkhart without delay. Warsaw Express (connecting with^No. 4) leaves Elahart at 1.40 p 3t. running through to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a. st.. and 4.05 p. 3J., running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers for Detroit must take Nos. 2. 8 or 16, as through tickeis are not good via Air Line,-2 and 8 carry through coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance Tickets, K. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent, or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Denot, at tne head of Lafayette and Frank in Streets, South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. S. POWELL, Ticket Agent.
NILES 1 SO UTH BEND RR.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles, -	7.00 a m. Arrive South Bend, -	7 35 a.m
“	9 2»a m	“	“	9.55 a.m
“	5.10 p.m.	“	“	5.55 p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.20 a.m. | Arrive Niles, -	- 8.50 a.m
“	“	, 11.00 a.m.	“	1130 p.m
“	“	6 50 p.m. |	“	7.20 p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 10.00 a.m. I Leave South Bend, - 10.30 a.m ‘	“	6.00 p.m. I 11	“	7.00 p.m
-	S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. CHICAGO ALTON AND St. LOUIS LlNE.
Thre^ daily Express Trains, with Pullman’s Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New York without Change.
Isttrain leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m | Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d Train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	“	9.00 p. m |	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and Sonth, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jb., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag't. Philadelphia.
F. R. MYErtS. Geu'l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.
LOUISVILLE N. ALBANY & CHICAGO H.H.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:	•
GOING NO RTS.
Pass............7 29 p	3t.
Freight .........2.48 a.	m.
Freight..........8 57 p.	st.
Pass.............9.21 a.	m.
GOING SO UTH
Pass...............8 23 p.m.
Freight ...........10 47 a.ji.
Freight............4.45	a.m.
Pass...............11.23 A.sr.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
STRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-Qp ison Street Bridge, as follows:	.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, 111., and Louisi-
■ ana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington J Express (Western Division^
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louisand Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
ARRIVE.
*8:00 p.mj
♦4:30 p.m
*4:30 p.m, *9:40 a.m.
*4:30 p.m.
17:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
LEAVE.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
!.*4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
+9:00 p.m.
+9:45 p.m.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Except Saturday. 0 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	‘
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO..’	CHICAGO.