The Scholastic.
PBVOTED TO THE
TUDENTS.
Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
Volume VI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 12, 1873.	Number 31.
Ths Mission of Conception.
The Mission of Conception is situated three miles south of San Antonio, on the San Antonio River. This Mission was built by the Indians over one hundred and fifty years ago, when Christianity was first preached in Texas. There is only one door in front: it is about eight feet wide and twelve feet high. The front part of the mission is covered with fine engravings of angels and saints. The statues of the Blessed Virgin and St. Joseph are carved out of solid stone, and placed in the wall on each side of the door.
The Mission is built of stone. The roof is a mixture of stone and clay, and is flat. The wails extend up two feet above the roof; about every three feet there is a hole through the wall, and a stone gutter for the water to run i through; there are also two domes and a steeple. The , steeple is about one hundred feet high, and has a large • cross on the top. The domes are situated over each wing, j and have four or five holes about a foot square in each.
The reason for making these holes, and also for extending the walls above the roof, was to defend the inmates against the savages. The only wooden work about the j building is the door. Going inside, it seems as if you were I in a cave, the walls and roof appear to be one solid stone; | the floor is made of clay, which is pounded and made as hard as stone. There are a few holes in the walls which answer the purpose of windows, but they give very little light There is a lamp in the back part, which is kept constantly burning. The light can just be seen on entering; going towards it our steps sound loud, and echo through the old building, every whisper seeming as if we were hallooing. After reaching the light we behold a very large altar before us, with two angels carved out of stone on each side of it. The stone is as white as marble. In the left wing is an al tar of the Blessed Virgin; the statue is ten feet high, and is very beautiful. In the right wing is the altar of St Joseph, with the statue of St. Joseph, which is the same size as that of the Blessed Virgin. In the walls there are statues of different saints. The architecture is | exceedingly striking, and such as is very rarely seen in the United States.	E. G. G.
A stranger seated at the table of his pious host commenced eating; when his host' checking him ’ said: “ We say something before taking food.” To which the stranger replied: “ Talk on; you can’t turn my stomach now.”
A fond husband boasted to a friend, “ Tom, the old woman came near calling me honey last night.” “ Did she, Bill? What did she say? “She said,‘Well, old Bees-
• wax, come to supper.’ ’’
I . Beauty, ’	?
I	'
I Beauty is an assemblage of properties in the form of a I person or thing, that pleases the eye. This being so, why I is my eye not pleased with that which pleases the eye of I the Chinaman, who glories in a long queue, or the. African, who prides himself on the thickness of his lips and the I flatness of his nose ? Tastes differ, and few persons form the same estimate of beauty. That which I consider beau! tiful my neighbor may abhor, and vice versa.
• Let us examine for a few moments the notions different countries entertain as regards beauty. In Japan the ladies gild their teeth; those of India paint theirs red;—while in Guzerat the pearl of the teeth must be painted black; or rather dyed black. What a blessing for some young ladies in this country were it considered beautiful to have black teeth 1 No need then of buying white ones. In Greenland ladies color their faces yellow and blue. I would not like a blue face; I think pink would look nicer. However fresh the color of a Muscovite, she would consider herself ugly if she was not plastered over with paint. In some countries the mothers break the noses of their children, as it is considered a mark of beauty. They also press the heads of their children between two boards to made them square. The female Hottentot receives from the hands of her lover neither silks nor wreathes, but warm guts and reeking tripe to dress herself with as enviable ornaments.
I In China it is considered beautiful to have small, round eyes, j and the girls of that country are continually plucking I their eyebrows to make them thin and long. Here also the feet must be as small as those of the she-goat in order to be considered beautiful.
The Chinese belle carries on her head the figure of a I certain bird. It is composed of gold or copper, according j to the quality of the person. The wings, which spread I out, fall over the front of the head-dress and conceal the temples. The tail, long and Open, forms a beautiful tuft of I feathers. The beak covers the top of the nose. The neck is fastened to the body of the artificial animal by a string, that it may the more easily play and tremble at the slightest motion. Turkish women dip a gold brush in the tincture of a black drug, which they pass over their eyebrows. It is too visible in the day time, but looks shiny and black at night. It is also a custom with the Turkish ladies to tinge their nails rose color. An African beauty must have thick lips, a flat nose and a skin beautifully black. A Peruvian lady wears a large ring in her nose, the thickness of which depends upon the rank of her husband. Through the holes thus made in their noses they hang various metals, such as green crystal, gold, stone, etc. Sometimes several of these metals may be seen hanging from a
242
THE SCHOLASTIC
lady’s nose. This is rather troublesome in blowing their noses, and in fact we are informed that the Indian ladies never perform that very useful operation.
The Myantses carry on their heads slight boards about a foot long and six inches wide. With this they cover their hair and seal it with wax. They cannot lie down or lean against anything without keeping the head straight, and the country being very woody' they are often found hanging or entangled in the trees. When they comb their hair, which happens but once or twice a year, they are obliged to spend two hours before the fire to soften the wax.
In Natal they wear caps or bonnets from six to ten inches in height, composed of the fat of oxen. Once on their heads they anoint the head with a purer grease, which ■uniting with the hair fastens these bonnets for their lives.
What land can compare with our own—the land of tight boots, spring-bottom pantaloons, and gaudy neckties? ** A thing of beauty is a joy forever.”
Lionello.
Perseverance
Does not consist, as some may imagine, in studiously employing ourselves in a pursuit; on the contrary, it is the steady continuation in the pursuit of anything once undertaken. Discouragement may be called its opposite, since on entering the human mind it banishes all firmness of resolve in the occupation in which it arises. Perseverance is one of the most useful as well as one of the most general of all the traits in the character of man, for it is necessary to every age, every sex, and every condition of life. It finds a sphere of action more or less in every occupation and every state of life. If we do not already possess this trait, we should seek to obtain it, in order to become men in the full sense of the word. To illustrate and prove this, let us take a schoolboy in the beginning of life, and look at both sides of the question. What enables him continually to pore over Latin, Greek, and other hard lessons, to endure cheerfully the trials and vexations necessarily attending a college course? The perseverance begotten of a laudable desire to acquire useful or necessary information. This and this only enables him to accomplish hard and trying duties, and in the end will lead him to a happy consummation of his desires. One who has kept cheeifully on in the path of duty will never fail, but will one day raise himself to a high and exalted station, will always be in good repute among his fellow-citizens, and will be loved, and honored, and trusted by them.
Let us reverse the picture. The boy is flippant, and fanciful, given to building castles in the air, squandering thus much of his valuable time, instead of diligently applying himself in the study-hall or having his attention fixed on the lesson and the instructions of his teacher while in class. The necessary consequence is that he leaves school knowing little more than he did at the beginning. He takes up some new study, begins at a terrible rate, thinking how much he will do in a short time, but as soon as any vexatious difficulty occurs dr matter for real hard study comes he becomes disgusted, and concludes to try something else. This in its turn is dashed to the ground in the same manner as the former, and the saine fate awaits .those which are to follow. .
The habit thus contracted at school also attends him in after life. He enters into some business, and after laying
out money finds that it does not suit him, so it is changed: the changing continues, each time losing a great per-centage of the capital invested, and to “drown sorrow,” as the saying has it, he seeks the saloon. We all know, from numerous examples, the fate that there awaits him.
Perseverance, generally speaking, is necessary to success in life. Could any one be a man without it ? No-: he should rather be classed among the lower orders of creation. Its influence is felt in all places, and in all occupations. What is the merchant or lawyer without it? Nothing. So also with regard to other employments. The advantages given by this trait of character are so evident, that we should by all means endeavor to obtain it. To do this, our motto should ever be “ Perseverance ! we will conquer or die.” '	Nomius.
Not a Reply. ,4
— -
Mb. Editor,—We have been led to believe from divers and sundry hints dropped by our friends, that some rejoinerd is expected to an article signed “O. S.” in a recent issue. For several reasons, however, we decline to make any.
First. A discussion of words—mere words—is apt to become interminable. We hear a warning voice from our Prosody: “ Vult OS product; compos breviatur et impos” which, making liberal allowance for oracular pithiness, we interpret: “ O. S. wants to draw you out; but shorten your compositions and don’t allow yourself to be imposed upon.” Besides, the significance of the initials O. S. alarms us. They characterize those dates which are reckoned according to the Julian Calendar, and distinguish them from the dates of the New Style or Gregorian Calendar; and since the reformation of the Calendar took place nearly three hundred years ago, we have no hope of living long enough to overcome the obstinacy of an adversary who has already held out so long against the clearest mathematical demonstration.
Secondly. The article in question is better adapted to convey a just appreciation of the merits of the cramming system than anything we could pretend to offer. You see it is crammed with a smattering of all things cognoscible, from the writings of St. Thomas to the details of a lady’s toilet, bis intimate acquaintance with the minutue of which, we frankly admit, inspires us with feelings of admiration, not altogether unmixed with awe. But with all the facts brought forward, where is the argument? where is the connected train of thought ? Probably his utter contempt for anything that can emanate from what philosophers foolishly consider the argumentative principle, is the occasion—we will not wrong him by saying the reason of this neglect. No wonder that when he personifies the Facuttas superior cognoscendi, he represents to us a neglected and sterile female form, surrounded by those false and meretricious adornments which art, with a smile of mingled pity and contempt, lends to fallen and besotted nature. Such ■is no doubt a melancholy but faithful picture of the state to which that unfortunate faculty is reduced in a mind subjected to the cramming system. But how great must be the hatred and del estation which can move him, in defiance even of all principles of rhetorical taste, to pursue the unfortunate metaphor throughout the whole length of his article, until finally he fetches her up short—where ?—in some obscure cavern of Avernus?—no! at the foot of the hymeneal altar! The Mormon!
SC BOLAS-TIC.
243
But if his article does not contain a legitimate argument, it contains what he evidently imagines to be an argument. This we find in what he calls his postscenium—behind the drop-curtain (strange how folks wont let drop-curtains alone) which divides the acts of his farce—for as “ farce” is undoubtedly derived from “farcio ” we must be pardoned for regarding cramming as a farce. But to the pseudo argument. He quotes St. Thomas to prove that the knowledge we have of God is subsequent to our knowledge of creatures; which we are all perfectly well aware of, even without St. Thomas’ testimony—or his either. But this by no means proves that the idea of God is derived from the idea of creatures. The idea of God is distinct from, the knowledge of God. When the Athenians built an altar to
the unknown God ” they had an idea of God, or they wouldn’t have built the altar, but they had no knowledge of God, as is evident from the formula of its dedication.
Adieu, O. S.; cram yourself till you burst, if you will. We can’t help it. Allow us, however, to remember the lessons derived from our earliest painful experience—our first belly-aches—not to put too fine a point on it. Yes; cramming it is that teaches the human infant that very useful principle that we may have too much of a good thing— more than we can digest either physically or spiritually. And permit us to add that if Eve hadn’t crammed herself with the forbidden fruit, she would have been Eve-angelical, and would have precluded the necessity for the Gospel dispensation. All which, Mr. Editor, we respectfully submit, and sign ourselves, as 0. 8. hath said, the devoted friend but incompetent advocate of Ratio Pura.
Two Pictures.
The Woman of the Period.
Loud-voiced and masculine she stalks abroad, Proclaiming all mankind a monstrous fraud’; Scorning the passive creatures of her sex Who suffer petty household cares to vex Their narrow minds, the rostrum is her throne, And this her protest, “ Sisters, shall we groan Beneath the galling chains that chafe and bind . Our wronged sex ? Shall we be always blind, And deaf, and supine ? No—the dawn is near, The clouds are breaking, and the morn is here.” And thus she lifts her broken voice on high, With gaping gloves, and bonnet-strings awry, Shouting for freedom and the glorious cause, Then folds her arms, and waits for the applause. It comes, from ribald men and jeering boys, A very Pandemonium of noise, While sundry acrid females in the rear Join shrilly in a feeble, frightened cheer. This noble spirit owns no trifling cares, No galling badge of servitude she wears,—	-
If in some dreaming hour to Hymen’s way Her foolish steps have idly chanced to stray, She soon repents, by virtue of the will Whose vast requirements no such aim can fill, By slighting all its duties, while she stands Tearing the empty air with frantic hands, Defying Fate, with gaudy flag unfurled In vain endeavors to upset the world.
. Her timid husband meekly strives to grace • -The vacancy of her despised place, ' And if he ventures, now and then, toask
. Her slight attention to some needful task, With .mien indignant, and imperious frown, She quickly puts his mad presumption down, Making the pulses of his heart to freeze In abject fear, with some such words as these— " My dear, how often must I tell you, pray,
TheMuggletqnCommittee moots to day?
You kuow I have no leisure for such things, -“No time .to waste with bottomholes and strings.”
Meanwhile, her children learn the sequel weir Which dreary hearth and loveless,home can jell;’ Ah! worse than motherless!—the lesson thrives,	"
And who shall wonder? theirs are worthless lives! Is this a woman? Hang your heads for shame, Ye women who would emulate her fame.
Is this a woman ? Save us, kindly powers, ' From calling such poor, false ideals ours!	:
The Womanly Woman.
Gentle and modest-eyed, she trips along,	.
Happy to pass unnoticed in the throng Of Luman life that surges to and fro, Pleased that her own should softly ebb and flow; Lovely, for that her soul is white and fair, ' Dowered with a comeliness beyond compare;
. Though never classic Jine her features trace, Yet is she gifted with resistless grace; ’
. Though never artist paint, nor poet sings	’
The glory of her charms, no fairer thing
Of beauty to the earth was ever given
Than this, man’s sweetest joy on this side heaven, Hers no desire to move the noisy crowd.	'
With wild harangue, or protest coarse and loud; - -Content beside the household hearth to dwell, i She knows her mission and fulfils it well,
. Wearing the crown of wifehood like a queen Who holds her sovereignty with rule serene And gracious, and a sway so sure	1
Ana yet so bountiful, and sweet, and pure That he who owns her love may well define Its portion as a guerdon half divine. '	’
Counting her motherhood so dear a trust,
’ That outward joys seem only dross and dust -Beside its fonder claims—from morn till night Watching each childish motion with delight Her life an endless prayer, whose might controls The heritage of these immortal souls. ■	: 1
This is a very woman—not so rare
But what we meet her daily, everywhere, .
, No flaring torch within her quiet hands,	.
And yet her fame encompasses all lands;
No flaunting standard from her casement flung, • Yet shall her praise through all the earth be sung; No rabble tumult in her courts astir,	■ ;
Yet the whole world bows down to worship her. Brave with the power vouchsafed her'from above, Strong with the strength of purity and love, n Fair with the grace of sweet solicitude,
. Rich with the wealth of perfect womanhood, ; This is the sov’reign whose pure eyes can sway Moredestiuies than any king to-day,	•
Who counts her triumphs millions in the past -And will as long as time and space shall last. .
_________	_________ M.E.W.
The Greatest of Waterfalls.—Mr. Brown, in the last of his adventurous series of journeys to the sources of the great rivers of British Guiana, has discovered, from a spot n$ar the head waters of the Massarund, what at thirty miles’ distance appeared to be an immense river descending bodily from the northwestern face of the great preci-' pice of Reraima Mountain, “ the attic story of the" world.”' This extraordinary cliff is known to be 2,000 feet in height, and appears inaccessible on all sides yet surveyed. The summit is flat, and of great extent. The fall is believed,: on Indian authority, to belong to the Caruni River, a. tributary of the Orinoco, and will be, therefore, in the territory of Venezuela; After tumbling sheer down that astonishing wall, the water rushes down a glacis'of. (perr haps) 3,000 feet more, at an angle which cannot be less, steep than forty-five degrees. sThe difficulties of approaching Reraima on this side must be very great; but it is a satisfaction to think that there is some good rummagingground still left for the energies of young England of the future, and a first-class showerbath. -	-
244	. THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic,
TTuliLished every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVEBSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
One year...................................,....$2	00
One session (5 months}............-.............1 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Stu-dents’ Office.
Obituary.
s	---
On the evening of the 5th of April, as the old College clock struck nine, the soul of one of the pioneers of this region of the country—of one of the original little colony of devoted men that laid the foundations of Notre Dame, deserted its earthly tenement, and all we have of Brother Laurence was- consigned to mother earth on the afternoon of Palm Sunday.
We rarely mention in The Scholastic the virtues of the inmates, even when they have fulfilled their allotted share of labor on earth and have gone to receive the reward they aspired to; for during the days of their probation they lived a hidden life—and we, who-know that nothing would have so much grieved them in life as to have their good deeds paraded before the world, respect their wishes even after they have departed from the scene of their labors, to remain unknown except to God and to the few from whom, on account of their intimate relations, they could not entirely conceal their virtues.
But in the death of Brother Laurence we feet that we would be doing violence to the feelings not so much of his associates in the religious life as of the host of friends outside whom he attached to himself during his intercourse of thirty two years, if we were to pass it over in silence, or with a mere announcement without any comment.
Nor could we pass such an event by without offering our tribute of sympathy to the one who feels his loss more than all others—to the venerated Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
Brother Laurence was born in France, in the year 1816; he entered the Congregation in his 24th year, and came with Very Rev. Father Sorin to this country in 1841. From the time of his arrival to the hour of his death he was constant in the fulfilment of his duties, and few men can have said of them by their intimate associates what Very Rev. Father Sorin, his Superior for thirty-three years, testified of him in a circular letter to the Congregation of the Holy Cross: “Although I, more than many other men of my years, have seen Religious of undoubted fidelity, of great zeal and admirable devotedness, I can remember none whom I would place above our dear departed one in these qualities.”
Brother Laurence held almost without interruption for the third part of a century the responsible position of steward or business agent of the Community of Notre Dame, and during that time he made many staunch friends among the formers of the county and among business and professional men of South Bend and Chicago. Here again we quote the words of one who knew him best, and who is
best able to render him justice. “Brother Laurence,” writes Very Rev. Father Sorin, in the letter before alluded to, “carries with him the deep and unfeigned sentiments of esteem and respect not only of his entire Community, but, I believe, of all with whom he came in contact, either as a Religious or as business agent of the Institution.”
This was shown at his funeral—at which, in spite of the inclemency of the weather, many of the most prominent men of South Bend were present. As we glanced over the church, crowded with his friends who had come to pay this last tribute of respect to him, we saw the faces of many whom we did not know, and who certainly did not know us, but who alt had known and respected Brother Laurence these many years. Among those whose features
■ were familiar to us, we saw those staunch old friends of Brother Laurence, Messrs. Zahnle and Sam. Jennings, among the farmers; Judge Stanfield, Judge Veasey and Judge Turner; Messrs Koehler, A. Coquillard, Wilts and Treanor,
! among the business men of the city. Beholding the church so crowded, by men whom we did not know, we remembered
1	that within the last two weeks, when Brother Laurence was lying very ill, we were accosted on the road or on the streets by perfect strangers to us, who first, to make sure of us,
, asked if we “ were from the College,” and on our answering affirmatively, demanded news of Brother Laurence, and
’ expressed their regrets for his dangerous illness and their hopes for his recovery.
We would fain give here our own sentiments concerning Brother Laurence, whom we knew and respected even when we were a boy, and with whom our intercourse has always been pleasant and cordial. But to say we admired i his sterling worth, hissound judgment on matters that came within his sphere of action, his unaffected piety and his goodness of heart,—which we experienced particularly when he was our ccmpagnon-de voyage from Paris to New York,—would add nothing to the universal sentiment of esteem in which his memory is held. We prefer to close by again quoting the words of one whose testmony is of the greatest value.
Very Rev. Father Sorin terminates his letter with these words: “ As for myself personally, I lose a friend who never refused me a sacrifice; who for thirty-two long years held himself always ready, without a moment’s exception, for any call of obedience. Never cau I forget his devotedness.”
Ik B.
A correspondent signing himself L. B. takes us to task for	a
publishing, week before last, an article signed “ Morris,” because in his opinion the readers of The Scholastic require “ something more solid and judicious.” As L. B., in spite of his labored efforts, has not succeeded in supplying us with " something more solid and judicious,” he has implicitly requested us not to publish his communication. We judge the urgency of his request by the lack of judiciousness in his effort, and cheerfully suppress his article, for his sake as well as for the sake of common sense. L. B’s knowlege of landscape gardening may be immense, but he is not so slashing with his pen as with his axe. Were he to use his little hatchet as awkwardly as he does his pen he would have maimed himself for life long before destroying so many of the few trees that his Vandalic predecessors were compelled to leave unharmed.	'
THE SCHOLASTIC.
245
It is with pleasure we hear that Rev. Father Maher has been appointed Steward, or General Business Agent of .Notre Dame, vice Brother Laurence, deceased. Father Maher has in a high degree the qualities requisite for that • office of trust and responsibility.
I The Base-ballists are practicing hard; it is good for the health.	'
I There have been several thunder-showers already this Spring.	•	’
I “ First in the refectory and last out,” seems to be one of the mottoes.
I Some one asks “Who are Champions?” We answer, “ The Minims, of course.”
I Considerable excitement was occasioned by the execution of a couple of rats the other bay.
I Suggestion.—We think that a few hours of mason work ■ would do no harm on the ball-alleys, and might be the means of saving several days’ labor in time not far distant. The fact is, several of tbe bottom bracks have gradually disappeared, and now large holes are to be seen in either alley— which of course will not heal of their own accord.
Hunting.—Scarcely had we sent our notes to press last week when we saw the hunters out in search of game. Ducks seemed to be the principal object of their aim. They found on St. Mary’s Lake a flock of a dozen or more, six of which they shot. They secured but three, which after all was not so bad. They tell us that ducks are quite plenty just now.
Tearing Down,—Many of the old buildings about the farm-yard have been razed to the ground; also the old turf shed, which has for years braved the elements, yet always looked as if a gentle Hoosier zephyr would scatter it far and wide. But it was not destined to be destroyed by the winds—human hands placed it there and human hands took it down.
The times are becoming much likelier than they were some time since. All nature seems to go by fits and starts. But the time is here when we can look for nice weather. The Societies are still at work as energetically as ever. Great spirit is manifest in the base-ball circles, and the interest in billiards “here and there” remains. There are but few sick, and all-participate in the exercises of the open air. The extra-recreat'on day was fully enjoyed.
A Demonstration of Joy.—As we sat in the College I the other evening when the ranks were forming for supper, we were startled by suddenly hearing shouts and seeing hats and caps tossed high into the ethereal space.
I What disturbed us still more was that we could not solve the reason of the outburst; probably it was caused by the prospect of fine weather and recreation on the morrow— in which the Juniors always take au active part It was a singular sight—so many hats and caps, some ascending others descending.
Base-Ball has gained quite a popularity about the University grounds again. Though the nines cannot be compared to those of former years, yet they of course get just . as much excercise—the great object in playing—and have as much sport—the great incentive. The games on Thursday of last week was the best of the season. The Juniors came out victorious, with a handsome score. This game has raised great doubt as to who will the champions this year. Thursday was gn extra recreation day, and was well put in. The Star of the East and the Juanitas also had a game, in which fortune smiled upon the latter. And now that the games are beginning, we cannot be looked upon as hinting at any one, for indeed we are not, when we urge upon base-ballists the importance of cultivating a love of
' The public offices of Holy Week were said in an edifying manner.
The Sanatarium. -
We have received the first number of a monthly journal called The Sanatorium, edited by A. N. Bell, M. D., and published by A. S. Barnes & Co., New York & Chicago. The editor has received many encouraging letters from distinguished physicians, who highly approve of the publication, and express their confidence in the ability of Dr. Bell. Not having the honor to belong to the profession, we have not the presumption to pass our opinion on the worth of The Sanatorium, but we simply record that such subjects as those treated in the articles on “Results of Sanitary Improvement of Towns,”—“The New York Quarantine Establishment,—“ School Poisoning, and Tenant and Factory Suffocation,” will prove interesting not only to the medical fraternity but to the general reader, as they have to us.
.	.—.-------- o- •----'---—
• Fly-Catch.es.
The Minims are all right. Spring fever has appeared. New-comers now and then. Seeing showers are frequent. The lake again has “ the blues.” A new style of hats is to be seen. The lake is very high this Spring. Ice and snow have taken their exit. The ball-alleys are always occupied. Navigation is flourishing at present. L. B. is interpreted “lovers of bread.” • The garden is being raked and cleared.
There are three good nines in the field. The, hunters come in loaded with game. Green leaves are occasionally to be seen. The Senior ball-alley has also now a floor. < » . Beautiful mornings are frequent visitors.
Linen coats and straw hats have appeared. Lunch hour will soon regain its popularity. The promenade around the lake is pleasant We heard some music on the lake the other day.
_ Linen coats and straw hats are as yet rather thin.
The base-ballists have been fixing up their grounds.
The old grass, etc., has been burned around the lake.
Work has commenced on the new Church in earnest.
Tier pleasant walk around the field is again indulged in.
. The base-ball bats are patriotic—being red, white and blue.
246
THE SCHOLASTIC
fair play. As we heard one of the youngsters observe, who was engagedin a game of “mlbts" with one of his equals, “Cheating never prospers.” And indeed a love of fair play is one of these manly qualities which are noble and praiseworthy in youth—it is noble, and makes .him noble who adheres to it. In this we have an example in our great and noble Washington, who was eminently a lover of fair play-
The Coliaabiaiis.
The 2nd regular meeting was held April 1st. At the opening of the meeting, the President delivered a short address. The following then read Essays: J. W. McAlister, P. Sullivan, and H. Cassidy; these were followed by declamations delivered by C. Whittaker, E. N. Mullen, L. Sanders, and W. Van’t Woud. The following gentlemen then volunteered to read Essays: G. W. Crummey, J. F. Burnham, and P. Sullivan. Mr. Horne then delivered a Spanish speech, which was received with great applause. After appointing members for Essays and Declamations for the next regular meeting, the House adjourned.
A. A. Allen, Cor. Sec.
Arrivals.
Albert Kramer,	Detroit, Michigan.
Samuel Woolley,	Chicago, Illinois.
Fred. Van de Mark,	Hillsdale, Michigan.
Charles A. Lewis,	Chicago, Illinois.
Belfield Le Fevre,	Chicago, Illinois.
Clayton D. Fish,	Hillsdale, Michigan.
Sase-Ball.
. A match game of ball was played April 3d, which resulted as follows:
EXCELSIORS.
Fletcher, e.............
Hutchings, lb...........
Hibben, p...............
Blake, c.f..............
Stubbs, 3 b.............
Gross, 2 b..............
Quill, s.s..............
"McOsker, l.f............
Culliten, r.f.....J.....
Total.............
R.	O.	COLLEGIATES.	R.	o.
2	4	Hogan, c'.		1	4
4	4	Walker, c.f		3	2
6	1.	jGambee, lb........		2	3
4	4! O'	W. Dodge, r.f.		1	1
6		Foote, 3b	:...	1	5
3	3	Berdel, 2 b		1	4
3	4	Maloney, l.f.		2	4
	5	Clark, s.s		2	1
4		C. Dodge, p		2	3
—	—-		—	
33	27	Total		15	27
SCORE BY INNINGS.
	' 1|2	3	4	5 1 6	7	8	9
Excelsiors		....oil	0	4	3 1 6	7	0	2 1 33
Collegiates....	.. ,.2 I 2	2	2	0|l	4	2	0 115
Fly-catches—Excelsiors, 9; Collegiates 10.
- Fly-muffs—Excelsiors, 1; Collegiates,-3.
Foul-catches—Excelsiors, 2; Collegiates, 1.
Foul-muffs—Excelsiors, 1; Collegiates, 1.
Called-balls—Excelsiors, 7; Collegiates, 19.
Umpire—Mr. W. Kelly, of the Juanita Base-Ball Club.
Time of Game—Two hours and. thirty minutes.
Before the pianoforte came the harpsichord, and before the harpsichord came the spinet, and before the spinet the "virginal; before the* virginal came the clavichord and ;monochord, before these the, clavicytherium; before that -the dulcimer, and psaltery; and, before them all, the Egyp-': tian, Grecian,-and Boman harps, and lyres innumerable.
Boll of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week peceding the given date.]	. -
FRIDAY, APRIL 5,1873.
Senior Department.
A. Allen, F. H. Buter, C. Berdel, M. Bastarache,.J. Browne, M. Browne, J. Begue, M. Bannon, J. Brennan, G. Brown, W. Bartlett, V. Baca, W.- Bryant, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, J. Comer, A. Costello, W. Campbell, G. Crummey, E. Chalfant, G. Crosby, W- Clarke, F. Devoto, C. Dodge, W; Dodge, J. Drake, T. Dundon, C. Dulaney, P. Downey, J. Egan, M. Foley, T. Flannagan, T. Fitzpatrick, M. Foote, J. Ferry, J. Gillen, E. Gambee,-E. Graves, D. Hogan, E. Halpin, F. Hamilton, A. Hess, H. Hug, J.Treland, P. Jacobs, T. Keenan, J. Kelley. E. Kimm, J. McGlynn, E. Mo-rancy, D. E. Maloney, E. Monohan, J. Murphy, T..Murphy, J. McAlister, A. Mooney, J. McCormick, E. McSweeney, E. Mullen, E. McLaughlin, P. O’Meara, P. O’Connell', P. O’Mahony, F. Phelan, J. Schmidt, E. Spitley, G. Stack, F. Scrafford, G. Summers, J. Scherer, P. Sullivan, G. Tobin, M.Torbett, j. Trimble, S. Valdez, W. Van’t Woud, C. Vinson, L. Watson, T. White, C. Walter, J. Wolfe, H. Zeitler.
Junior Department.
F. Austin, G. Amann, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, L. Busch, C. Black, P. Brosseau, C. Burger, M. Blake, H. Bennett, J. Campbell, J. Caren, B. Casey, J. Devine, J. Dore, J. S. Dunn, W. Dexter, F. Egan, H.Enneking, J. Ewing,J. Francis, Geo. Gross, W. Gross, J. Graham, J. Golsen, H. Hunt, J. Hanley, E. Holt, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, L. Hibben, R.- Hutchings, H. Hirsch, A. Kleine, A. Krcitcr, W. Kinzie, A. Kramer, J. Lynch, R. Lewis, W. Meyer, F. McOsker, T. -McGee, J.- Mulla’-ky, E. McMahon, W. McMahon, J. Marks, S. Marks, Jno. McGrath, W. Morgan, E. Milburn, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, J. McHugh, L. Munn;' J. Nevin, G. Nester, J. O’Connell, E. Ohmer, W. Pollard, V. Phelan, J. Quill, H. Quan, A. Reid, C- Reid, C. Burger, J. Stubbs, D; Salazar, F. Sweger, H. Schaller, W. Schultheis, J. Sh annahan, P. Tansey, O. Tong, S. Wise, J. Wanbaugh, F. Weisenberger, J. Wilson, F. Wittelsperger, F. Bauer, C. Lewis.	. -
Jas. F. Edwards, Secretary.
Class Honors-.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each' Class will, be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory ; fourth week, Music, Fine Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.-rDiRECTOR-OF Studies.]
FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1873.
GERMAN.
H. Zeitler, M. Scherer, J. Ireland, J. Crummey, .P. O’Meara, F. Phelan, G. Ruger, W. Gavitt, J. F. Burnham,' A. J. Mooney, F. Scrafford, H. Randolph, E. Kimm, M. Bannon, E. J. Plummer, W. Van’t Woud, L. Burridge, H., Dulaney, W. Rumely, W. Schultheis, H. Zuber, H. Enneking, H. Schaller, A. Schmidt, L. Best, V. Hansen, A. B. Reid, C. V. Reid, j. Devine, J. McHugh, F. Miller, A. Kleine, G. Frauenknecht, • J. Golsen, T. McGee, C. Ruger, J. Lambin, C. Hake, W. Hake, D. McAndrews, W. Ball, J. Dore,.JR. Lewis, W. Green, J. Marks, S. Marks, P. Brosseau, J. Graham, H. Faxon, W. Pollard, J. Cap-mody, J. Wanbaugh, J.X 'McNally, J. C.-Nevin,-. T. Culleton, J.Hanley, C.Nirdlinger, R.,Golson, H^Rinderer, N. J. Mooney, H. G. Bennett, S. Wooley, J. M. George', J. Minogue, A. Schermerhorn, W. Dexter, E;Holt, .B. Casey, A.-McIntosh, J.-Hogan, M. Casey, F. Peril, T. Nelson, C. Walsh, A. Koch.
french.	- ■	,
L. Cl Watson, F. J. St.Aubin, J. RoAnot/ H. Hug, J.-Begue, j. S. Dunne, C. Campeau, L. Best, G. Gross, B. LeFevre.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
24?
-	• ’	-	> DRAWING. .	~	...	. ;
J. Schmidt, E. S. Monahan, W. Van’t Woud, L. D. Hint's ton, A. Horne, J. D. George, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, E. G. Graves, H. Hug, W.-Gaar, A. Schmidt, H. Nirdlinger, J. Lynch, T. Culle-ton, J. E. Porter, L. Munn, L. Van’t Wood, E. Ohmer, -W. Schultheis, W. Rumely, C. Hake, R. Kelly, H. Hirch, V. Hans en, L. Busch, E. Smyth, E. Bauer.	- ' "
PIANO.
' W. Campbell, TV. Schultheis^F .Peril, C. Ruger, J. Campbell, C. VReid, J Golsen, F Miller, H Schaller, H Zuber, W P Breen, H Quan, V McKinnon, W Ball, D McAndrews, V Baca, A Kleine, H Hirsch, J Graham, L TVatson, F Smyth, D O’Connell, J Glennen, C Campeau, V. Phelan, L Busch, C Nirdlinger, P Lilly, C Hake, E Raymond. .	_
'	VIOLIN.
j Brennan, F Miller, TV Rumely, L Van’t TVoud, E Kimm, JWChapoton, JD McCormick, J McHugh, JHacketrAKoch, J Schmidt, WKinzie, J O’Connell, T Culleton, A Hess, J Lynch, L Loser, J Lambin, J McGrath, T Keenan, J Drake.
Flute.—E Ohmer, W Ohlen, TV Fletcher.
Clarionette.—G Brown.
Guitar.—M B Torbett, P Daly.
Sax-horn—A. Home.	.
SAINT MABY’S ACADEMY.
■	^.St. Mary’s Academy, April 9, 1873.
On the Feast of the Compassion, Very Rev. Father General received the following young ladies into the Society of the Children of Mary:
As full members—Misses N. Gross, E. Drake, M. Brown, L. Black, E. Quinlan, M. McGuire, M. White, A. Church, L. Forrester, M. Lyons, and A. O’Conner.
■ As Candidates—Misses E. Plamondon, L. King, M. Comer, B. Grace, A. Smith, L. Dent, M. Carlin, M. Martin, M. Walsh, M. Thomson, E. Thomson, and K. Joyce.
. The following little girls were received as aspirants for membership among the Children of the Holy Angels’ Sodality : Addie Walsh, G. Kelly, M. Hildreth, M. Ewing, A. Ewing, M. A. Brown, A. Green, L. Walsh.
'	> Tablet of Honor, (Sr. Dep’t.) April 6,1873.
Misses Katie Zell, M. Cochrane, A. Todd, A. Shea, B. Crowley, L. King, M. Lange, A. Mast, M. Lassen, L. Niel, M. Kearney, A. M. Clark, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, J.Walker, M.Comer, L.Black, N. Langdon, M.TVard, A. Lloyd, M.Prince, B. Reynolds, M. Wicker, B. Grace, A. Church, J. Locke, L. Dragoo, E. Boyce, S. Shipley, A. T. Clark, L. Weinreich, M. Riley, A. Hambleton,. H. McMahon, N. Heedy, R. Woolman, C. Germain, R. Rosesco, E. Quinlan, N. McEwen, M. McGuire, A. Conahan, L. Penniman, D. Simons, L. Forrester, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, L. Scheiber, T. Heckman, E. Drake, S.Lilly, N.McMahon, M. Lyons, H.Miller, M. E. Black, M. Kane, B. Turnbull, C. Lee, K. Isman.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Graduating Class.—Misses K. Zell, M. Cochrane, M. Lassen, A. Mast, A. Shea', K. Haymond, B. Crowley, L. King, M. Lange, A. Todd.	,
First Senior Class.—L. Niel, M. Kearney, Annie M. Clark, N. Gross, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, M. Comer, L. Black, N. Langdon, M. Ward.
Second Senior Class.—Misses A. Lloyd, M. Prince, A. Wilder, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, L. Dent, B. Grace, L. Daly, K. Finley, M. Letourneau, A. Church, J. Locke, L. Dragoo, E. Boyce.
Third Senior Class.—Misses J. Fanning, A. T. Clarke, L. Weinrich, J. Noonan, A. St. Clair, H. McMahon, L. Beckman, N. Heedy, A. Reid.
First Preparatory Class.—Misses R. Woolman, L. Pfeiffer. C. Germain, E. Burney, E. Ives, B. Gaffney, R. Rosesco, M. E. Roberts, A. Roberts, E. Quinlan, N. McEwen, M. McGuire, A. Conahan, L. Penniman.
Second Preparatory Class.—Misses K.Chenoweth, M.White, A. Stockton, M. Dillon, N. McAuliffe, V. Wickham,- L - Forrester, R. Klarr, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, F. Snonffer, T. Heckman, L. Lilly.
Third Preparatory Class.—MissesN. M&Mahon, H.Miller, M.. Black, E. McKeever, M. Kane, B. Turnbull, C. Lee, K. Isman.
Tablet of Honor, (Jb. Dep’t.) April 8,1873.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, K. Joyce, L Tinsley, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, G. Kelly, B. Quan. G. Schulte, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, A. Lynch, N. Vigil, M. Carlin, M. Brown, M. Reynolds, M. Ewing, E. Orton, N. O’Meara, M. Hildreth, M.Walsh, J. Thompson, L.Schuerle, B. Hassler, A. Noel, E. Lang, E. Lappin, Cf Walker, A. Koch, C. Smith, A. Paulsen, E. Jackson, K. Hector,-A. Ewing, G. Hooley; D. Allen, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, M. Ware, M. Kaeseburg, K. Bolton, and A. Green.	,	-
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Second Senior Class—E. Richardson and A. Smith. -
Third Class—K. Joyce.	'
First Preparatory Class—L. Tinsley, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, and G. Kelly.	.
Second Preparatory Class—L. McKinnon, B. Quan; T. Schulte, M. Hepp, M. Martin, A. Lynch, M. Carlin, M. Brown, M. Reynolds, and M. Ewing.
Third Preparatory Class—E. Orton and S. Lilly.
First Junior Class—N. O. Meara, M. Walsh, J. and M.Thom-son, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, A. Noel, A. Burney, E. Lang, K. Lloyd, E. Lappin, M. DeLong, M. Booth, C. Walker, A. Koch, and C. Smith.
Second Junior Class.—E. Jackson, K. Hector, A. Ewing, G. Hooley, D. Allen, E. Hassler, M.-Lowrey, L. Walsh, S. Lynch, M. Ware, M. Kaeseburg, and K. Bolton.	'
Third Junior Class.—A. Green and M. Green.
Mr. Bonton, a dealer in curious books, has at his place in Broadway what is doubtless the most valuable copy of the Bible ever compiled. It represents the toil for thirty years of an English collector oi‘ Biblical prints, engravings, and drawings in oil and water colors, and is roughly valued at 10.000 dollars. Such subjects as “ Susanna and the Elders ” or “ Daniel in the Lions’ Den ” are enriched with scores of illustrations drawn from every field of art—the convent missals of the medimval ages, the strange, fanciful, strikingly false drawings of the Italian masters, the grotesque works bf Dutch and German painters, and the later and more truthful efforts of modern artists. In all, this wonderful monument of loving devotion to a worthy hobby includes no less than 30,003 illustra ions of various kinds, some of them worm from 59 to 100 dollars each, and extracts from some thirty editions of the sacred text.
Here is how an auctioneer’s dialect is given in “ Serope, or the Lost Library,” in Old and New. “Half-a-dollar, halfadollarfadollafadonafadollafadollathat’s bid now give more’f ye want it! Hnlf-a-dollar five-eights three quarters—Three-quarters I’m bid—will you say a dollar for this standard wo.k octarvo best edition half mor-ocker extry? Three-quarters I’m bid, three-quartthee-quartthee-quart thee-quawt-thee-quawt one dollar shall I have ?”
SEEDS, PLANTS, I REES, PREPAID B¥ MAIL.
MY new-priced descriptive Catalogue of Choice Flower and Garden Seeds, 25 sorts of either for §1 ; new and choice varieties of Fruit and Ornamental Trees, Shrubs, Evergreens, Roses, Grapes, Lilies, Small Fruits, House and Border Plants and Bulbs; one-year Grafted Fruit Trees for mailing; FruitStocks of all kinds ; Hedge Plants, etc.; the most complete assortment in the country, will be sent gratis to any plain address, with P. O. Box. True Cape Cod Cranberry for upland or lowland, S6 per 1,000; SL per 100; prepaid by mail. Trade List to dealers. Seeds on Commission. Agents wanted.
B. M. WATSON, Old Colony Nurseries and Seed Warehouse, Plymouth, Massa- , chusetts. Established 1842.	• n27tG V
248
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Site
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Same University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription, $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years. $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.	.
Single copies, 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $25, in advance.	'
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria fcr $45, in advance.
. To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-fivo copies of the Ave Maria for $50, in advance.
The postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA.'
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
rpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.
“	*•	12.25 p. m.
“	- “	9.15 p.m.
“	“	12 35 a. m.
“	“	8.20 p. m.
- “	“	4.35 p. m.
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m. “	“	2 55 a. m.
«	“	5.00 a. m.
“	“	605 p	m.
“	“	6.37 a.	m.
“	“	8.20 a.	m.
EAST.
Arrive atBuffalo 4.05 a.m
'	“	“	4.05 a. m
“	«	1.35 p. m’
“	, “	5.30 p.m
. Runs to Elkhart.
WEST.
. . Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m ' “	’ “	6.50 a. m
“	“	8.20	a. m
•	“ ‘	“	9.40	p.’m
“	“	10.30	a. m
1“	«	12.30	p. m
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE. THIRTT.TWO PAGES EVERY MONTH.
$1.00 I’JDK. AANUM.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Wf Smg Shmlw,
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending Oue Dollar to the Editor,	-
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
Making connection with all trains West and North.	'
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.	.
Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes aster than
South Band time._	.
J. H. DEVEREUX, General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio. ’ CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J W. Cary, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio. , J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolciiabd, Freight Agent, South Bend,
HEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.-
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.	.
Going South—Express passenger, S.58 a. m.; 10.46 a. m.; 9.25 p. m.
Freights, 1.00 a.m’.; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line
fl?'RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad- ’ 41b ison Street Bridge, as follows:	,
NILES I SOUTH BEND RR.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles, -	6.50 a m. Arrive South Bend, -	7.30 a.m
•“	9 35 a.m.	“	“	10.15 a.m
“	4.5r>p.m.	“	“	5.30 p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.40 a.m. I Arrive Niles, ’ -	- 9.20 a.m
“	“	11-45 a.m. I “	12 25 p.m
“	“	<i.3O p.m. |	“	7.10 p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m “	5.30p.m. I “	“	6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, III., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Mairi Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson- * vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.^
♦9:15 a.m. ♦8:00 p.m.
♦9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*9:15 a.m.x *4:30 p.m.
*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. !7:15 a.m.
+9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
DNIVEESITT OF NOTEE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and ClMrtcred in 1844.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. I Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.	'
Situated near the Michigan Southern A Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
' Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	. 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, ---------	12 50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	-- 10 00
Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing, -	---------- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee —Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 16 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra. -	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books. Stationery, etc , at current prices. .
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th < 1st of February.
F 1’-•further particulars, address
Bev. A. LEMONNMR, C.B.C., President.
JAMES CHARLTON, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
J. C. McMULLIN, , Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO.
PJEXSJSYL. VAS I A CITRAL
DOUBLE TEA0K EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman’s Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New
York without Change.	.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 1130 a. m* 2d train	“	5.15 p.m	“	“	6.41 a. m*
3rd train	“	“	9.00 p.m	“	“	11.30 p.m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and at Mannsfield with trains on Atlanlic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’lManager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, arid Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. , F. R. MYEK8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.	’
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.