The Scholastic.
Volume VII,
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 31, 1874.
Number 23,
and with it rose a tremendous tumult of applause from the delighted audience, who, when they saw the admirable and most perfectly natural effect of even the minutest particulars could not refrain from expressing their open admiration by repeated plaudits.
Though the whole seance was very successful, this play in itself was indeed a grand success; and during its entire length the audience manifested such a breathless interest in it as was never before witnessed at St. Laurent.
The different tableaux were most beautiful; and after each the audience rose en masse to demand a repetition-The St. Laurentians, French and English, may well be proud of the success achieved by them on the evening of the 18th, and. the St. Patrick Literary Association can with confidence defy any college or educational institution in Canada to rival them in either the literary or histrionic arena.	"	•
The whole play of “ William Tell ” is filled with exciting and affecting scenes, and each member engaged entered heart and soul into its finest passages. Mr. Jas. Coyle, of Providence, Rhode Island, as “ Tell,” the fearless champion of untrammelled liberty, did nobly. Naturally gifted with a full share of the innate spirit of freedom common to all the children of that fair green isle in the western ocean, his acting and speech were as if the natural promptings of a heart wildly throbbing and unconquered beneath the tyrant’s rough and heavy yoke.
Master Dennis McCarthy, of New York, as Albert, Tell’s son, won the hearts of all by the unstudied grace and freedom of his acting and by a keen perception of his role. Mr. John Bowles of New York, sustained several roles admirably, but his clief-d'autre was the personation of “ Old Melctal,” father of one of the Swiss patriots. After having his eyes burnt out, at the command of the tyrant Gesler, he appeared before Tell, his son-in-law, where the very wonderful histrionic talent of which he is possessed shone forth preeminently in his masterly rendition of the affecting scene. W. B. Meenan, of Providence, Rhode Island, was not quite at home in the character of Gerard, Tell’s father, into which that of Emma, Tell’s wife, had been transformed, but made ample atonement in his impersonation of the tyrant Gesler. Messrs. J. Burke of Providence, as Sarnem; J. McCarthy, of New York, as Pierre; F. Hoben, of Missouri, as Michael; M. O’Hare, of Providence, as Erni and Rodolph;' James Fogarty, of the same city as Theodore, with George Miller, of Ontario, as Furst and Jas. Wiseman, of New York, as Lutold, all rendered their respective parts most excellently. It would be useless to canvass the respective merits of each; suffice it to say that the rendition of every character was well-nigh perfect, and spoke well for the elocutionary standard of the house.
It is the intention of the Patricians, under the direction of their youthful and skilled instructor, Mr. J. Locke, C. S. C., to give another seance, entirely English, on or
Correspondence.
St. Laurent College, January 22, 1874.
Editor Scholastic:—Dear Sir—Perhaps a few words concerning matters at St. Laurent may prove of interest to the readers of your journal. Presuming-such is the case, I beg leave to transmit you an account of a grand stance ■which took place, in our new hall, on the evening of the 18th inst.
Though, since taking possession of the hall, several private seances have been given, yet the grand public opening •was reserved till last Sunday evening, when between five and six hundred friends of the college, and students, assembled to witness the representation of a serio-comic play, entitled “Baldini,” by a party of French students, with the beautiful and highly tragical play of “ William Tell,’’ in English, by the members of the St. Patrick Literary Association.
The seance, we are proud to say, was a grand success, completely casting into the shade every former effort of the students of St. Laurent. The Band and Orchestra, under the leadership of Prof. Lecours, N. P., played admirably, and the several instrumental solos received well-merited applause.
The opening piece, “ Baldini,” was excellently rendered, and kept the attention of the refined and appreciative audience alive from beginning to end. But the master-piece of the evening was Sheridan Knowles’ sublimely pathetic play of “ William Tell.”
Never before did the students of St. Laurent achieve such complete success as did the members of the St. Patrick Association in their presentation of this well-chosen piece.
The attractive appearance of the large stage with its new and complete set of theatrical scenery, kindly purchased by our Rev. Superior; the rich and appropriate costumes, added to the natural'and feeling acting of each and every member engaged in the piece, completely took the audience by storm, and called forth repeated and wildly enthusiastic bursts of applause.
The audience, carried away by the perfect portrayal of the spirit of the piece, was at times tearful and sympathetic with some poor victim of the tyrant’s aggression; while, again, it almost rose to aid the patriot Tell in his glorious cause.
At the termination of the French piece, during the whole of which we noticed most masterly acting, a short interval was required to prepare the stage for the English play, during which the audience was entertained by several vocal and instrumental solos. Among those whose masterly acting during the representation of “Baldini” elicited much applause, we noticed Messrs. Vian, Champeau, Rivel, LeCavalier, Valiquette and Bonhomme, with many others.
The curtain now arose on the play of “ William Tell,”
’.1Y8
THE SCHOLASTIC.
about St. Patrick’s Day, when they expect to surpass even their effort of last Sunday evening.
-Wishing them complete success in tbeir.every undertaking, I have the honor to subscribe myself, dear Sir,
Your most respectful servant,
.	“ Yankee.”
Friendship’s Parting1 Words.
“Amicitia nisi inter 'bonos esse non potest.”
Loved Friend, look not with longing eyes
For beauties bright, for flowers fair
Within these lines ; heart-throbbings though they be My muse has sought her sunny skies,
Nor pearly pinks nor roses rare
Has left to twine a garland grand for thee.
Do hot expect such lay as thrills
Like silvery sounds the charming chords
Of Friendship’s soul; no master touch is mine
To steal from out these shining strings Soft, soothing strains ; I’ve never soared, On wayward wing, where Music sits sublime.
Not mine to tune and sweep the lyre,
Nor waft on high, with burning breath
Delights delicious mingling in my mind;
Though far within, the flaming fire Of song gleams and glows, and yet Imprisoned is, by some strange fate unkind.
My theme ! how great, inspiring, grand!
It thrills ten thousand touching thoughts That sweetly sweep fond Friendship’s holy heart;
’Tis there their glittering glories blend In rainbow rays, in twilight tints.
Would I could paint them e’en in part.
Pure Friendship ! ’tis a sacred gem,
A boon from heaven, gift of God,
Dropped down to bind in brilliant bands of love, The high of heart, the model men,—
With them, on earth, is its abode.
Its real home, like ours, is far above.
Rich treasures from its angel wings
Forever falls to smooth our way
Through tortuous trials on Earth’s broad battle-field ;
How sweet the blissful beams it brings, When sullen gloom enshrouds the day, And dreadful darkness stands alone revealed.
Oft hast thou felt its magic power, J
Its captivating influence
Come stealing o’er thee, whispering in thine ear
1 Of those who in some happy hour
With Friendship’s sweets wooed every sense, And lightly laughed away corroding care.
Oft in the stillness of thy soul,
Phou’st listened to the mystic flow
Of Friendship’s tiny, pearl-tipped, sparkling streams, ’ Singing their songs, as oh they roll, " '	1
Their laughing wavelets all aglow
With mellow light from out sweet-smiling scenes.
Like fragrance from some favorite flower, Or zephyr’s kiss upon the cheeks, '
Thy friendly feelings I full dearly prize ;
They cast a charm ’round each bright hour.
Fond memory backward, swiftly sweeps .
To where, and when, and how, they took their rise.
’ I bless that time; it gave a link	’
. To Friendship’s golden, heaven-forged chain,,
‘ That joins in love the good, the pure, the true;
That lovely link will erst remain,
To bind, though distant far, your friend to you. .
. My task is done; alas, how ill!
The heart’s.unuttered poetry
■ In vain, in vain I’ve essayed to express;
Soul unto soul alone can tell
Its magic might, its melody,—	'
Not mine the art the secret spring to press.	-
Farewell, my soul’s own genial friend!
We meet, maybe, on earth no more;
Our paths through life-lie severed far and wide.
But weary, worldly ways will end,—
Ah, then ! we’ll meet on Heaven’s shore,	-
And there, forever, with saints reside.
• '	 Harwich.
. On Treats, f	■ '
The subject upon which I have chosen to address you, Mr. Editor, can hardly be called a dry one. A treatise on treats, if properly treated, may prove a rich treat to those whose entreaties have prevailed upon me to attempt it. But hold! be not too sanguinary—too sanguine, I mean, of my success. I have failed in several treaties lately, particularly in one which I attempted to make with the inexorable goddess, to whom I addressed a beautiful ode, begin-ing:; '	-	" '	.	'
“Aphrodite I Aphroditd I
' Can’t we make a sort of treaty ? ”
But allow me to plunge at once into my subject. Treats are of three kinds—the treat possible—the treat probable— and the treat actual. The treat possible is when you have paid all kinds of delicate attentions to an illustrious-looking stranger—protected him from the importunities of hotel runners—carried his carpet-bag half a mile—found out for him the street and number of the residence of the friend whom he has come to visit—taken his part in a street row andknocked down seven canal drivers, besides giving the rest into custody. The treat probable is hard to depend upon—for, as the old proverb says, “There is many a slip between the cup and the lip.” And as to the treat actual, it does not exist until the mellifluous nectar has begun its downward course through the (esophagus, and even then it’s a chance if your treatist’s postal currency has not mysteriously disappeared in the interim, leaving you to take your share of the indignant objurgations of the bar-tender.
Furthermore, a treat may be formal or it may be material. A formal treat may be illustrated thus : A.—“Will you take something?” B.—“I don’t care if I do.” A.— “Well, then, let us take a walk.” A material treat must not be confounded with the materials for a treat. The latter are crushed sugar, lemons, hot water, and wh—wh— dear me, what makes the wind whistle so to-day? I can’t hear myself speak—Don’t put in too much sugar for a sentinel—sugar has a soporific' tendency, and soap and sugar will bring a boil to a head sooner than anything else I know—so if you want to boil your head—but what am I saying? I merely meant to remark that it is-not advisable, to put in too much sugar for a scent—the scent of the lemons is more efficacious.
Many are the phenomena of treating. When you hear a young gentleman lay it down as a geometrical axioms.
THE S CHOE AS TIC.	_ ________m
that “Things which are double of the satire thing are double of each other,” you may safely infer'that that is one of them. When you read in our green-covered edition of Walter Scott, the expression “ flushed like the moon when rising in the North West*”—you cannot help the conclusion that either Walter himself, his editor, or his printer, must have had some personal experience in regard to treating. A literary friend of mine told me the other day that when he writes he always holds his pen behind his ear. I knew what was the matter at once, but I did not choose to say anything. It was doubtless some of these phenomena that first suggested the proverb, “ All roads lead to roam,” (not “Rome,” as the vulgar imagine,) and the true meaning of Sic itur ad astra—“ So we go up sta’rs.” Deal gently with the erring—but in order to preserve the equilibrium of forces, if you deal gently, you must shuffle and cut wildly—madly—ferociously. It is a bad thing to be in liquor, but then there is no use in being too dry. I knew a Brother once who left the Order because it was too dry. He left the order for a pair of light gaiters at the shoe shop because it was too dry to Wear his double-soled cowhide stogas. Mathematics is a horridly dry study too. It is so unpopular at a certain University we know of, that if a Professor goes down to the study-hall and barely mentions the word “Algebra ” a large body of students are sure to get up immediately and leave the room. Even that puff adder, the lightning calculator, fails to moisten a subject which remains, and ever will remain, as dry as Ryan’s pond, and I hope the gentle reader does not want to know how dry that is.	.
Treat then, dear friends; but treat wisely. Treat me, for instance. Yours truly,	Fizzick A. Skype.
* Anne of Geierstein—p. 43.
Much, Truth in Little Compass.
In a speech recently delivered before the Liberal Club in New York by the learned and zealous James A. Mac Master, editor of the Freeman's Journal, the following passage, reported by the daily papers, occurs. It is worthy of reproduction for the sake of the great truths condensed into small space which it contains:
“ After a confession of extreme Catholic faith, the speaker said that he opposed State education, not as a Catholic— the Church saved men; it neither educated, clothed nor protected them, though it made all three easier—but as a citizen. He protested against the right of any citizen to tax his neighbor for his children’s benefit any more than for his own. Let each win by honest toil this blessing as any other. He wanted no pauper schools. As soon would he lose his self-respect and his control over his children by sending them to eat at a soup-house as to learn at a common school. To whom and to what was he asked to consign his children ? To teachers selected by gamblers and policy dealers; to a system deliberately planned by Fanny Wright and W. H. Seward to subvert the Christian religion. The State is just as much bound to supply every child with §1,000 is with an education, and in either case it was the ability to use the gift that made it valuable or a curse. A moral purpose alone can make a man with any power useful. The State cannot give this. No power can interfere with the God-giving institution of the family for the training of children in the Catholic household, where
there can be no divorce and but one father and mother. When the children have passed their nonage and reached responsibility, the priest comes and examines not their^ secular learning, but their religious teaching. What if the family does not educate? Then it is a question of charity* and to be dealt with as such, but your present system is an expensive charity, giving a useless education.”
TKe Libraries of France.
The amusing tirades against France on account of-the lack of education, to which all her misfortunes are ascribed by. ignorant writers, find their refutation in the simple ex* pose of the condition of what is granted by all to be a most, efficient means to promote, and the clearest proof of,.the. education of a people, namely its libraries. The following was the condition of the libraries of France in 1865, accord-, ing to the Nouveau Dictionaire d'Sistoire et de Geographies published by Jacques Lecoffre, Paris, 1866. As the full list would be too long, we only give the libraries possessing 20,000 volumes and over, as follows: Chartres, 31,000; Aix, 100,000; Dijon, 50,000; Ajaccio, 20,000 ;D61e, 35,000; Douai, 36,000; Amiens, 53,000; Angers, 35,000; Lafleche,. 34,000; Grenoble, 30,000; Arles, 40,000; Havre, 25,000; Arras, 36,000; Lille, 30,000; Auxerre, 30,000; Lyons, 120, 000; Avignon, 60,000; LeMans, 46,000; Besan^on, 80,000; Marseilles, 51,000; Bordeaux, 123,000; Metz, 30,000; Brest, 24,000; Nantes, 30,000; Caen, 45,000; Nancy, 30,000; Cambrai, 53,000; Orleans, 33,000; Chalons-sur-Mame, 26,000; '■ Poitiers, 23,000; Rheims, 30,000; Rennes, 40,000; Rochelle, 20,000; Rouen, 110,000; Strasburg, 180,000 in 1866; Toulouse, 50,000; Tours, 38,000; Troyes, 100,000; Ver- ■ sailles,56,000.
PARIS LIBRARIES.
Imperial Library, 2,000,000 volumes, 200,000 MS.; St. Genevieve, 210, 000; Legislative Body, 70,000; Mazarine,. 120,000 volumes, 50,000 MS.; Medical School, 30,000; Sorbonne, 80,000; Institute, 60,000; Arsenal, 300,000 volumes* t 9.000 MS.; Invalides, 30,000; Jardin des Plantes, 30,000;. Paris Library, 65,000; and several dozen more, aggregating' 4,000,000 and over.	,	.	.
To this might be added several hundred more libraries having less than 20,030 volumes, the libraries of other smaller cities, of universities academies, and colleges, those of seminaries, bishoprics, and monasteries—all of which help to promote the education of the nation.
All the public libraries are open daily from 10 o’clock, A. M., to 10 o’clock, P. M. Besides the public city libraries, there are many circulating libraries, club and society libraries, whose influence towards instructing and enlightening the people cannot be doubted. Extensive and valuable museums, art galleries, collections of minerals, etc., are attached to each library.
Davidson County, Tennessee, has the champion poox-house. The justices who recently inspected it say that the beds, which had originally contained straw, were nearly empty, and the sick, the old and the feeble were compelled to sleep on slats. The faces of the inmates were dark brown for want of water, and the rooms were like hog pens—the broken windows admitting the cold wintry blasts. The diet was coffee, corn bread, aind pork. Lunatics were allowed to run about at will.	’
ISO
THE SCHOLASTIC,
Th#
Published every Week during Tenn Time, at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.	■ •
TERMS:	-
One year..........................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students'’ Office. •	•	-
so that the students of the College, who are generally and indiscriminately charged with the crime, do not feel -inclined to suffer for the guilty. .	.
Publications.
Brownsow’s Review—January, 1874.
The 1st No. of the Second Volume of Brownson's Review contains interesting articles on two of the great prelates of America, Most Rev. Archbishops Hughes and Spalding; Home and Foreign Politics; Evangelical Alliance; a continuation of Dr. Brownson’s Refutation of Atheism; besides articles on Education and the Republic; Holy Communion—Transubstantiation, Literary Notices and Criticisms.	.
Catholic World—for February—
Contains—the Principles of Real Being; Spiritualism; Nano Nagle; The Jansenist Schism in Holland; Our Masters; A Looker-Back; New Publications; besides Poetry and the continuation of the serials Grapes and Thorns, The Farm of Merceron, and the first part of Grace Seymore’s Mission.
The Catholic Hecord—for January—
Has the continuation of the article on Spiritualism, by Rev. Dr. Moriarty; A Church of the Period; The O’Donnells of Innismore; In the Church there exists a Divine Means for the Communication and Preservation of Truth ; At the Mouth of the Pit; Religion in Education; Souvenirs of the Autumn of 1841; Curiosities of Sound; besides several articles in verse, and Notices of Publications.
It is a long time since we received the Be la Sade Monthly.
We acknowledge receipt of the Fifth Annual Price List and Specimen Book issued by the Toledo Commercial Co.
.	All Around.	.
Skating was good this week.
Soiree to-morrow evening at Washington Hall.
New Students are arriving to fill up the ranks.
Rev. T. Sullivan, of Laporte, was at Notre Dame last Tuesday.	‘	.
Examination is over, and the new Session commences Monday.
Commercial Seniors "are being examined to-day for diplomas.
Messrs. P. Ratigan and Stephen Mack, of Detroit, gave us the pleasure of a visit
The Examination went through in the quietest way possible, and every one was in earnest about it
Rev. J. Fanning, of Fairbury, Illinois, was at Notre Dame last Thursday.	.
J. Maloney, Esq., of Harvard, Ill., was at Notre Dame this week.	.	■
Work is going on rapidly on Very Rev. Father General’s house, which will be finished early in the’ spring.
Mr. D. Corby, of Detroit, father of Rev. W. Corby, . C.S.C., spent a few days at Notre Dame this week.
Classes will be resumed Monday, no interruption intervening between the two Sessions.
An article on the moon sent to us for publication seems to us to be unneeessaiy, as a learned scientist—-the director of the observatory of Marseilles, we believe—-has announced to the world that a pupil of his has discovered that the satellite so useful at night is cracked, and cannot last very long in its present condition. Ah!
We feel ourselves obliged to adhere to the resolution expressed last week, and therefore cannot comply with the request made to publish another communication concerning the pas de deux between C. C. J. and La-mi-re-mi La-mI-la. It is a very pretty fight as it now stands, and we object to making it a triangular duel. Let us have peace.
The services of Mr. John Pendl, a remarkable sculptor in wood and marble, have been secured. He will teach his art to those desirous of learning it. The few specimens of his skill which he exhibited to us place him in the foremost rank among the men of his art. He will work for the new Church.
From the Oconomowoc Times we learn that Col. Dunbar’s celebrated Bethesda Spring is as flourishing as ever, if not more so, and that its waters continue to do immense good to numbers of sufferers. ' Our sentiments on the subject are well known, and it would be a sad day for us to be without the pure crystal water of Bethesda.
The Thespian Exhibition for the 22nd of February (it will.be postponed till the 24th) will be one of the finest ever given at Notre Dame. The plays to be represented on that occasion will give the Thespians a fair field to display their talent, which this year is remarkably good. The music will be in keeping with the rest.
The Catalogue of Books published by Murphy & Co., Baltimore, contains a long and varied list of excellent Catholic works. Many of the books should be found in every library, and we regret that on looking over the list of a circulating library not a thousand miles from Notre Dame we see several books that might well be thrown out and their places filled by such works as Messrs. Murphy & Co. advertise in their Catalogue.
The little depot of the Michigan Central Railroad at St. Mary’s Station was the object of an act of n ckless vandalism last Wednesday. We cannot ascribe such a deed as the breaking of window-glass and smashing of doors to anything except malice prepense and to a spirit of destruction such as would entitle the performer of such a deed to the severest punishment. The kind attentions of the manager of the Michigan Central Railroad provided our Station with a neat and comfortable depot, and that for the special benefit of the College and the Academy. Now, the stupid vandals who from time to time attempt to deface that house should meet with condign punishment, the more
THE SCHOLASTIC.
181-

There is a magnificent bust of the late Hon. Thomas Ewing in the Room of the St. Cecilia Philomathsan Association.
The members of the Boat Club intend, putting up another boat-house to shelter the two fine boats which will be added to their fleet next spring.
Bro. Charles is perfecting the plans of the ceiling of the new church. When they will be carried out and completed, the new church will present the handsomest interior appearance of any church in the West.
Why is it that our friends at the steam-house are so irregular in sending steam to the study-halls ? Can’t this '	be remedied ?
'	We were very happy to meet our old friend, Rev. John
Lauth, who has been in Watertown, Wis., for the last two yeari He is looking extremely well.
It has been suggested that a bridge be built from the College to the Senior play-hall. It would not be bad for such weather as we had this week.	'
“ Ike ” has arrived, and entered as a student. He intends to make a specialty of domestic economy, as he is to be a real estate agent next year. Good for “Ike.
1	The St. Cecilians are reading in the Junior Refectory
a very instructive as-well as entertaining work, the biography of the late Hon. Thomas Ewing, Ohio’s greatest statesman.	.
Mercury’s period is said to be eighty-eight days. Well, our mercury beats that time; ours makes it in eighty-eight minutes. We suppose he could have a longer period if he wished.
f	Rev. Father Carrier has received a number of new
instruments for the Laboratory, which, by the way, is in a better condition than ever before; and we believe the
' present Chemistry Class is the largest that has been at the University for a number of years.
Is it not pretty near time the Thespians were at work for the Twenty-second—their great day ? We hope to see them come out and maintain the character they have al ways held of being the Society of Notre Dame when Exhibitions were on the programme.
Two of our noted ball-tossers were amusing themselves last Sunday by catching an apple, when a third party, a non-ball-tosser, came in view, at the same time making a “catch” that surprised our friends and other '	lookers-on.
' Various are the conjectures about “The All-Around man.” Some speak of him as a cross fellow, others say he - is inquisitive; and others still go so far as to assert that he
।	is misanthropical. Now, we don’t like to be uncharitable,
but we would like to tell those surmising folks that they are “ another.” '
We feel it our duty-to beg pardon of our-readers for not. keeping them better informed on the various Lectures that have been delivered during the past session. It has been one of the most successful lecture seasons Notre Dame has ever witnessed. We hope the incoming sessjon .	will be as successful a one.  x
I,	Teacher—" Who was the first man ? ” Head scholar—
‘	“ Washington; he was first in war, first in—” Teacher—
।	“No,no; Adam was the first man.” Head scholar—“Oh,
I if you are speaking of foreigners, I s’pose he was.”
Roll of Honor.
SENIORS.
W. Appleyard, F. Buter, W. Ball, C. Berdel, J. Brown, if, Bastaraehe, L. Burridge, C. Bowman, J. Boyle, J. Brogan, W. Clarke, M. Caldwell, O. Corcoran, H. Cassidy, J. Crnmmey, G. Crummey, J. Callery, P. Cooney, J. Christy, T. Casbin, H.-Dehner, F. Devoto, T. Daily, E. Dnnn, W. Dodge, C. Dodge, J. Egan, H. Esch, J. Falvey, M. Foley, T. D. Flanigen, J . Fielding, C. Falvey, J. Flaherty, J. Girard, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, E. Graves, E. Gribling, H. Hayes, L. Hayes, A. Horne, E, Halpin, P. Hennessy, J. Hogan, A. Hess, C. Hess, W. Hersey, V. Hansen, T. Hansard, J. E. Kelly, J. Kennedy, J. Lyons, T. T. McDonough, B. McGinniss, D. McGinnis, J. McDermott, EMcSweeney, J. McManus, M. McCullough, M. McGovern, T. Murphy, A. Mooney, S. Marks, E. Monohan, F. Mathews, A. Martineau, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin, J. Mathews, P. McDonald, J. Key, J. E. O’Brien, P. O'Brien, J. M. O’Brien, M. O'Day’ P. O’Meara, P. O’Mahony, P. O’Sullivan, E. O’Connell, C. Proctor, H. Pendill, F. Pendill, J. Rudge, T. Rourke, G. Roulhac, C. Spears, H.T. Small, H. P. Small, L. Sanders, J, Van Dusen, W. Van’t Woud, J. Ward, J. Wolfe, H. Walker, C. Walter, M. Spillard. H. Hughes.
juniors.	’
W. Ames, B. Baca, J. Beegan, -W. P. Breen, P. Corbet, John • Cullen, J. Delvecchio, John Dalley, John Ewing, Charles Freese, Willie S. Gross, Georgie Gross, O. Gore, Dennis Gorman, Bradley Hersey, Charlie Hake, M. Jeffers, M. J. Kinsella, S. Kennedy, Horace Keenan, B. Le Fevre, G. Lehman, M. McCor. mack, John McGrath, G. McNulty, N. J. Mooney, Willie Meyer^ Fred Miller, John O’Connell, Charlie O’Connor, James O’Connor, V. Phelan, E. S. Ratigan, Charlie Ruger, John Soule, James Smith, Louis Smith, T. Solon, Harry Shephard, Frank Thalman, Frank Wittlesbergcr, Edgar Wood, F. Weisenberger.
.	MINIMS.
M. McAuliffe, F. Carlin, C. Buchanan, I. O’Meara, F. Cam-pau, L. Goldsmith, E. Cleary, C. Clark, R. Golson, H. Middleton.
The Minims on Wheels. -
We have frequently of late imagined ourself in the same, situation as a certain Ohio politician, of whom it is said that he never opened his mouth without invariably putting . his foot in it. Now, please, kind readers, do not interpret literally, for we speak figuratively, and would be sincerely -sorry to leave you under the impression that we are such a ,..x monster as the literal accomplishment of that feat would " require us to be. What we wish you to understand is that we cannot say anything, be it ever so trivial and un-	>
assuming, without being called to an account for it and threatened to have an addition made to our capital dimension, which would be very unpleasant to us under the cir. cumstances. But we trust that the Prefects and Juniors will not remain “down on us,” because we happened to mention some little things concerning the latter’s jaunt The Columbians, also, accuse us of blundering very much and later-still an esteemed friend says that we could not be blamed for our misdeeds as we were not accountable.
Finally we find ourself in the clutches of the Minims, who make threats of an alarming nature in case we say anything derogatory to their character or conduct at the St. Joe Farm the other day. We will consult our interests ‘ and be prudent accordingly, lest perhaps we do get into a hornets’ nest and as a consequence be restrained from making a defence of the principles and theories of balanced. umbrellas and moving bodies which were so beautifully illustrated on the occasion referred to.	.	.
182	THE SCHOLASTIC.
The morning on which we started was Quite chilly, but homoeopathy was called into practice by our occupying springless .wagons, and trotting the teams over hard-frozen roads, thus giving us the appearance of a party of shakers, as far only as our shaking propensities were concerned. For fear that our keg of cider might share in the general commotion and get out of order, it was considered necessary to place a prefect over it. But Brother Albert can testify that it was not a very agreeable situation, and one that could not be endured very long.
The wagon occupied by Bros. Auguste and Ferdinand was more favored than ours, as we discovered before we had gone one quarter the distance, by its possessing a cook who favored us with a little refection.
At the Farm we again met the esteemed Father Letourneau, the hospitable Bro. Matthew, Director, with his worthy assistant, Bro Paulinus, and the ever good-humored Bro. Henry. Bro. Dionysius, too, was there to greet us. At dinner we had the pleasure of partaking of the good things prepared by Sister Good Shepherd and her assistants, and of listening to the sapient remarks of our respected Steward.
After spending a few hours as best we could under the circumstances, which circumstances were rain, hail, snow, mud and water, and gathering as many facts on different subjects pertaining to the raising of stock and milking of cows, we began to beg umbrellas, blankets, etc., that should protect us from the teeming rain on our homebound journey. To the kindness of the good Sister are we indebted for our success in obtaining the much-desired articles, which we solemnly promised to have returned on the morrow in as good order as possible. All things being in readiness, we bad 3 good evening to our generous entertainers and resigned ourselves to the inevitable fate of getting a “ducking,” but we determined to stand it with Christian fortitude. We have learned, however, that sometimes one umbrella is better than two, because when two are close together, as on the present occasion, and one is persistently kept lower than the other, thus causing an overlapping, woe betide him who overlaps his neighbor’s!
When half way, we were rejoiced to notice that the rain had ceased and that we could light a fragrant cigar presented us by a friend, and enjoy it in quietude whilst we mused over the adventures of the day, and thought of the reception we should get if the students could witness us, so much resembling a lot of- barn-yard poultry immediately after a- heavy shower to which they had been exposed. The Minims and their fatherly Prefect will please accept the thanks of	“Joe.”
A Fair Field, and. No Favor.
■	“ Heat not a furnace for your friends sb'hot
As to scorch, nay burn, your important selves.”
For some days the air has been tremulous with startling rumors to the effect that poor devoted “Harwich” was about to be visited with a severe chastisement for some unpardonable offence recently, and, as it seems, designedly committed by him. Conscious of having violated no rule of courtesy and politeness as a reporter, no maxim of paternal charity as. a Christian, a spirit of native-born independence sanctioned by the dictates of common sense forbade us to make an ‘ amende honorable for the spurious meaning extracted—but not very ingeniously—from' the
words of oiir report on the New Year’s festivities. Sup-, ported by the rectitude of our intentions, and knowing that we had not disobeyed that interior voice evercommanding us to cast aside the pen and let it rust in idleness forever sooner than make it the instrument for piercing any person’s feelings, we awaited tlie onset with perfect equanimity. We were apprized; before “Misstated Facts” flashed upon us benighted, that “ Joe” was rushing on as heaven’s Nemesis to avenge the shade of his “ departed preceptor,” and'strike a telling blow for the endangered science of numbers. It were well if he had used .that “piece of buckskin” which served him so faithfully “when he toddled about in gingham aprons and copper-toed boots,” —from which, we may add, he was emancipated too soon— in rubbing the rust from his ideas before beginning the contest. But does “Joe” come.to the front single-handed? We apprehend not. He is a sort of multiplied individual, embodying in himself and blazoning forth the subtlety and sophistry of one opponent and the consequence of another.
The mathematician gives us an interesting (!) autobi* ography of his early years, dwells on the riot of joy he experienced when, at a comparatively recent date* his preceptor had after exhaustive liamnfering made him “grasp the mighty idea that everything'has two halves, and only two,” and since a barrenness of thought warns him off’ “from the marshes of rhetorical English,” where he would fain abide, if he could, follows the “ will o’-the wisp ” of abortive wit continually enticing him on and continually mocking, him with the tantalizing challenge: “Catch me if you can.” We are not surprised at his admission, then, that “ sad experience taught him that one half a rod would make an ocher, as well as three halves” The application of the “ birch” must have been carried to its highest excellence. Would, however, that its salutary lessons, so well learned by the boy, were not forgotton by the man.
With regard to that “ congratulatory New Year’s address, “ which he takes as a convenient peg whereon to hang the disjointed medley of his insensate attack, even if we overlooked the agreement between “ unity” and “ two halves,” it was for the sake of throwing that address into bolder relief; and, to do this,-we superadded a “third half!” Being, as it was, a combination—nay, a sublimation— of wit, eloquence, and poetry, it was eminently worthy of being called a speech and a half. Let “Joe" ponder this, and he will see how easily we can reconcile our position with, his own. Yes, times are changing, and homines mu-tantur in illis.	.
Even “ Joe ” into the spirit enters,	•
And fits his little frigate for adventures, With jokes exploded, and pointless sarcasm laden, He steers this way in hopes of trading;
Good people purchase, his stores are ample, Take “Misstated Facts” as an excellent sample.
We take a melancholy amusement in watching him floundering about, and almost on the point of drowning, but we will reach out a rescuing hand at the last moment. It is to be regretted that he has not outgrown, those ideas which involved him in so many difficulties when his aunt' sent him on that memorable errand.
Qui stat videat ne cadat. The gage has been recklessly flung at our feet. Did those who so heroically cast it there, with a broad-chested swing and a look of vainglorious defiance, lull themselves into the'easy conviction that we would not dare to take it up ? If they founded their hopes

THE SCHOLASTIC.
183
of coming victory, and wreathed their brows with the laurels of prospective triumph, on this supposition, their . hopes are still-born, their laurels nipped by untimely frost, and they are the victims of a vain delusion. We are prepared to shiver a few lances with those redoubtable knights, and do here and now make manifest this disposition. It is foreign to our nature to be disputatious, neither are we desirous of gaining notoriety by entering the lists with those who have attacked us without cause; but much less are we disposed to sit by in acquiescent silence when reflections unjust as they are ungenerous are levelled against us. “ Joe ” & Co. have “ called out the music.” Are they willing to let the dance go on ? If so, we can assure them that they will be joined in it, with a heart and a half, by misrepresented	Harwich.
Subscriptions to the Hew Tabernacle. 1
[continued.] -
Miss Mary Kaul, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.... §10 00
Mrs. Christianna Brown, New York.............. 10	00
Miss Mary G. Brown, New York................ 10.00
Miss Margaret Mary Hynes, St. Louis, Mo......	3 00
Miss Mary A. Dolan, New York.................. 10	00
Margaret Murphy, St. Louis, Missouri.......... 10	00
Mrs. P. V. Fort, Albany, New York............. 10	00
Alexis Joseph Sullivan, Charlestown, Mass.... 10 00
Thomas Maloney, Harvard, Illinois............. 10	00
Julia Sweeney, Boston, Massachusetts.......... 10	00
Mrs. M. E. Murphy, Newark, New Jersey.......... 3	00
'	’ [to be continued.]
The eleven largest libraries in the United States, with the number of books in each, are as follows: Library of Congress, 183,000; Boston Public Library, 153,000; Astor Library, New York, 138,000; Havard Library, Cambridge, 118,000; Mercantile Library, New York, 104,500; Athe-nteum Library, Boston, 100,000; Philadelphia Library, 85, 000; New York State Library, Albany, 76,000; New York Society Library, 57,000; Yale College Library, 50,000; .Georgetown College, 40,000.
SAIHT MANY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, January 28, 1874.
The examination of the pupils in the Conservatory of Music commenced on the 12th inst. During two hours a day, for ten days, the different classes were examined in theory, scales, exercises and performance of the graded compositions practiced by each class. The examination was very thorough and s itisfactory. We give below the names of those pupils who were promoted in Instrumental Music. The First and Graduating Classes will be examined at the close of the term, after which a Musical Soiree will be given by the highest classes in Vocal and Instrumental Music.
The examination in English branches commenced last Monday and will continue till Friday, followed by examination in Foreign Languages, Drawing, Painting and Composition.
Bulletins containing.a full report of standing in all the classes will be sent to parents and guardians. •
. Tablet of Honor (Sr Dep’.t.)
■ Misses L. Niel, M. Kearney, A. M. Clarke, N. Gross, R.
Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, L. Black, N. Langdon, L. Dragoo, J. Walker, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, L. Dent, M. Letourneau, J. Locke, E. Boyce, K. Finley, A. Curtain, M. Walker, G. Walton, J. Fanning, A Keeline, A.T. Clarke, A. St. Clair, M. Quan, G. Phillips, R. Burke, J. Stimpson, A. Maloney, E. Sweeney, E. Bohan, M. Riley, M. Johnson, N. Foote, E. Denehey, E. Dougherty, L. Pfeiffer, E. Wade, B. Wade, R. Woolman, N. McEwen, F. Moore, J. Bennett, M. Emmonds, A. Minton, L. Wyman, I. McCool, L. Keena, R. Roscesco, K. Atwood, M. Kengel, A. Sullivan, M. Barry, M. Ball, L. Henrotin, K. Casey, A. Marantette, J. Kreigh, E. O’Connor, R. Klar, C- Miller, T. Heckman, L. Kelly, S. Murrin, C. Sautroup, B. Johnson, M. Ives, H. Miller, E. Manz, C. Strother, M. Ivins, E. Taylor, J. Haney, M. Poquette, N. O’Connell, M. Klotz, A. Garies, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, K. Engle, J. Adams, N. Hinkston.
Promotions in the Musical Department.
To the Second Class—Misses H. Foote, A. Smith, L. West. ■
To the Second Division—Misses D. Simonds, A. Morrison, M. Quan, A. Roberts.	•	'
To the Third Class—Misses E. Gosse, M. Barry, J. Kearney, C. Nason, M. Resche, E. O’Connor, A. Minton. -
To the Second Division—Misses E. Ives, N. Kengel. L. Wyman.
To the Fourth Class—Misses J. Stimpson, A. Marantette, L. Tinsley.	.
To the Second Division—Misses E. Boyce, C. Miller, B. Wilson, C. Klotz, N. Huber, M. Hoover.	.
To the Fifth Class—Misses I. Hatch, M. Cummings, M. E. Roberts, M. Johnson, M. Hayes, M. Kaeseberg.
To the Second Division—Misses C. Sautroup, L. Ritchie, L. Johnson, J. Sink, M. A. Roberts, L. Niel, K. Patterson, G. Phillips, E. Lange.
To the Sixth Class—Misses F. Hoyt, L. Walsh, K. Morehead, E. Wade, A. Curtain, M. Schultheis, M. Walsh, A.
To the Second Division—Misses F. Gunzert, J. Adams, B. Pfeiffer, N. O’Meara, R. Canoll.
To the Seventh Class—Misses M. Beynolds, R. Gallery, E. Lappin.
To the Eighth Class—Misses F. Dee, M. De Long, E. Simpson, T. Cronin.
To the Ninth Class—Misses J. Brown, A. Ewing.
Tablet of Honor (Jr. Dep’t.) for January 23d.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, M. Resch, M. Carlin, A. Shores, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, B. Wilson, M. Reynolds, K. Hutchinson, M. Walsh, M. Brown, M. Ewing, E. Lang^M. Pritchard, L. Harrison, M. Martin, E. Orton, D. Bullen, J. and M. Thompson, H. Peak, K Morehead, M. Summers, N. O’Meara, M. DeLong, M. A. Schultheis, J. Brown, M. Kaeseberg, A. Koch, M. Booth, A. Cullen, M. Hutchinson, G. Hooley, D. Allen, E. Schno-back, L. Walsh, B. Golsen, B. Pfeiffer, A. Goewey, M. Francis, E. Lappin, L. Germain, J. Sink, J. Andrews, C. Orr, M. Ware, E. Simpson, B. Gallery, M. Hayes, N. and I. Mann, A. Peak, C. and M. Hughes, E. McDougal, J. Dee, J. McDougal. •
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
First Senior Class—E. Richardson, A. Smith.	’
Third “	“ —M. Faxon.
First Preparatory Class—M. Resch, M. Carlin, A. Shores, I. Fisk, M. O’Connor, B. Wilson, M. Reynolds. -

the scholastic.
ii
Second Preparatory Class—M. Walsh, M. Brown, M. Ewing, E. Lang, M. Pritchard, L. Harrison, 31. Martin.
Third Preparatory Class—E. Orton.
Junior Preparatory Class—J. and M. Thompson, H. Peak, K. Morehead, M. Summers, N. O’Meara, M. A. Schultheis, M. Kaeseberg, M. Booth, A. Cullen.
First Junior Class—G. Hooley, D. Alien, L. Walsh, B-Golsen, A. Goewey, E. Lappin, L. Germain, M. Schneider, B. Gallary.
Second Junior Class—M. Hayes, N. and I. Mann, C. and M. Hughes.
Third Junior Class—F. and J. Dee.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BENO, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable Bou.-e, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. 'Ihe travelling public may rely on finding the best accomu odalion.
Ladies and gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary's will find here all the comforts of home duiing their stay, JERRYKNiGHT, )p - { CaPi'AIN MILLS, f "°Pnetor8-
PESNSYLVAJliU CEATBAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
L. S. & M. ^RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, December 14,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
1.47 a. st. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, fl 53: Cleveland, 2.15 p. M.: Buffalo, 9.10 p. jt.
10.10 A. at (No. 2), Mail, over Main and A r Lines; Arrives at Toledo, 5.10 p 3t.; Cleveland. 9 50 p. m.
11.58 r. 3t. (No. 4|, Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. 3t.; Buffalo 4.20 a. ar.
9.09 i*. 3t. (No. 6', Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo. 2.40: Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo, 1.25 p. 31.
3.45 p. st. (No 70), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.20 a. 3i. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.25; Chicago 6 55 A. st.
5.20 a. 3t. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, 8.30 a. sr.
6.34 p. sr. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10 r. sr.
5.45 p. sr. (No. 1). Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte, 6.40; Chicago, 9 00.
9.05 a. sr. (No. 71), Local Freight.
Note. C inductors are positively forbidden] to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland “Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup'r Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CBARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
J3F” Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos 7, 9, ana 71: East, Nos. 2 and70. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 12.30 p. 31., running through to Wabash. Through tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance tickets, R. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
THE BEST PAPER! TRY IT!
Three daily Express Trains, -with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New
Fork without Change.
Isttrain leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m i Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41a. m*
3rd train “	•*	9.00 p. in I “	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Manusfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON. Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jb.. Gen Pass and Ticket Ag't. Philadelphia.
F. R. MYEKo. Geu’l Pass and Ticket Ag't Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
RAIN'S leave West-Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-
ison Street Bridge, as
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona. Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation.
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Nlain Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Slain Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City’ Express, via Jackson-vill. Ill., and Louisiana. SIo.
LEAVE. ABBIVE.
♦9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m
♦9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
♦9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m
*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
+9:00 p.m. 37:15 a.m.
+9:45 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
*	Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only + Except Saturday. J Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
liOUlSVXIZLE N. ALBANY & CHICAGO H.R.
On and after Sunday- Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:
GOING NORTH. Pass............7 29	t	si.
Freight.........2.48	a.	si.
Freight.........S57	p.	3t
Pass............9.21	a.	in.
GOING SOUTH
Pass ................. 8 23 p.m.
freight ..............10 47 A.at.
Freight...............4.45 a.3i.
Paes..................11.23 A.M.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED.
The SCIEaNTllPIC ANIK UTO AIN now in its 29th year, mjoys the widest circulation of anv weekly newspaper of the kind in the world. A new’ volume commences January 3. lj-74.
Its contents embrace the latest and most interes'ing information pertaining to the Industrial, Mechanical, and Scientific progress ol the World; Descriptions, with beautiful engravings, of New Inventions. New Implements, New Processes, and Improved Industries ol all kinds; Useful Notes, Recipes, Suggestions and advice, by’ Practical writers, for Workmen and Employers, in all the various arts.
The SCIEN TIFIC AMERICANis the cheapes and best illusira'ed weekly paperpublished. Every number contain from 10 to 15 original engravings ol new machinery and novel inven tions
. ENGRAVINGS. illustrating Improvements. Discover ies, and Important Worxs, pertaining to Ci.il and Mechanical Engineering, Milling Mining and Metallurgy; Records of the latest progress in the Applications of Steam, Steam Engineering, Railways. Shipbuilding. Navigation, Telegraphy, Engineering, Electricity. Magnetism Light and Heat.
Mechanics, Engineers, Inve ntors, Mannfac turers. Chemists. Lovers of Science. Teachers. Clergymem Lawiers, and People cf alt Professions, will find the SCIENTIFIC A-ATEftlC AIN useful to them. It should have a place in every Family, Library. Study, and CountingRoom; in every Reading Room, College, Academy, or school.
A year’s numbers contain 832 pages and Several Hundred Engravings. Thousands of volumes are preserved tor binding and reference The practical receipts are well worth ten times the subscriptionprice. Terms $3 a year by mail. Discount to Clubs. Specimens sent free. May be had of all News Dialers.
~P A 111 LriNUPQ In connection with the SCIEN-
UVl Jit IN JL O. TIF1C -AIMUERICAIN, Messrs. Munn & Co. are solicitors of American aud Foreign Patents, and have the largest establishment in trie world. More than fifty thousand applications have been made for patents through their agency.
Patents are obtained on the best terms, Models of New Inventions nd Sketches examined and advice free. All patents are published in the SS CIEN TIFIC AMERICAN the week they issue. Send for pamphlet, 110 pages, containing laws and full directions f r obtaining Patents.
Address for the Paper, or concerning Patents, MUNN & CO, 37 Park How New York. Branch uffice, cor. F ana 7th Sts., Washing on. D. C.
NILES 1 SO UTH BEND RR.
GOING SOUTH.	GOING NORTH.
Leave Niles, - - - 9.21a.m. Leave South Bend, - 6.30 a.m.
“	5.yi p.m.	“	“	11.00am.
“	7.35 p.m.	“	“	6.15 p.m.
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Leave Niles, - - • - 10.00 a.m. 1 Leave South Bend, -	8.00 a.m.
•	•	“ -	7.35 p.m. |	“	5 00 p.m.
’ S.-R. KING, Agent, South Bend.