Will-! 4 I it# I v'
Volume IX.
NOTBE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 11, 1875.
Number 2.
i.
He stood alone I
Alone he stood upon the deep-sea shore, Around him waves reverberating roar With nevSr-ending moan;
' And wild winds bluster as they did of yore1 In ages that have flown!
ii.
And yet no bone— No bone of fierce contention ever tore Him from the threshold of his father’s door, Or made him helpless groan.
Then why his brow a shadow broodeth o’er ? Why standeth he alone ?
nr.
Was it some crone ?—	"
Some aged crone he met upon the moor,. That prophesied of ill, and clouds in store, And turned him into stone ?
Or was’t a raven flecked with human gore That shrieked a warning tone?
iv.
.	Or p’rhaps a cone—
A pyramid, erected on the floor, Of fancied evils threatening evermore To seize upon the drone, And hurl him from the height of human lore— His literary throne ?
v.
Can it be shown ?
Or proven by experience what a bore It is to have to poetize galore, With naught to call your own But shapes fantastic that unruly soar Throughout your mental zone?
It’s a conundrum.	Sigma Taw.
Tearing Down and Building Up.
It is easier to tear down than to build up, easier to waste than to acquire, easier to destroy than to produce. I was standing, not long since, on a crowded thoroughfare of a great city; the seething, bubbling masses of humanity came surging up and down, but they were not occupying my thoughts, and I took but little notice of them. I was watching the movements of a gang of workmen who were busily engaged in uprooting a gigantic old elm that reared its majestic form above the broad, smooth walk. It was a noble old tree, and I could not regard its destruction as other than a species of vandalism. A sharp, stoical,
matter-of-fact-looking man stood on the walk, apparently ' / superintending the job, and of him I inquired the nature . of the offence which this solitary old monarch of the forest •	./
had committed that doomed it to annihilation. ' .	* ■ <
“Orders from headquarters—blocking up the sidewalk,
I suppose,” said he.	i	:
“ But could you not make the walk a few feet wider here, for the accommodation of the public?” I objected. .
“Yes, I s’pose so,” he replied, and turning around.ihe pointed to a church spire that rose above the buildings, a- •; few squares distant; “no affair of mine, you know; I would pull down old Trinity to-morrow, if I received the proper checks”; and he hastened away to give some in-structions to the workmen.	- .	: s
A, few moments later and that proud old trunk, which. many busy hands in nature, working slowly and silently, had conspired to uprear, which had braved so many win- ~ • '■ ters, bloomed so many summers, and adorned the soil	.
wherein it grew, lay prone and shivered upon.the street. •	. .
With what firmness the roots were fastened in the earth! . \ How the bosom of the ’uncomplaining clay was rent with . • the parting! To me it was a sad sight,—it always is. I know it is sometimes necessary to remove and destroy the old, that some greater good may be attained—it is surely nature’s law,—but even when we see the necessity for the 1-1 act, we cannot become wholly reconciled; and oh! how . seldom in our little lives is it necessary! We are continu-ally tearing down, changing, deforming, destroying,—stub tifying ourselves,—and for what? Reformers, forsooth!/	/yj
insane fanatics rather. Artists tearing down a column	/J
Vendome. And should a decree go forth that-we must ./?" replace what we have destroyed, ah! how many of.us would possess the skill or ability ? How many moments 14 of precious time have we destroyed! how many golden op- . j portunities have we insulted and despised! how many * a fond hopes and fond hearts have we crushed and blighted!
A young man leaves the sheltering protection of a fond . xj home and loving, pious parents, to force his way alone - S through the crowded avenues of life. He is young, and . g visions of future usefulness and future honor displace the ~	|
feelings of natural sorrow at the sacrifice he has made; ’ j but misfortunes come, not singly, but trooping like legions of demons upon the pathways of his untried life. He is J not strong; he has not yet learned that which bitter ex-	a
perience alone can teach him—to bear and forbear. To	3
his passionate, untutored heart mole-hills of troubles.are magnified into mountains. Difficulties weigh him down	W
like the incubus of a frightful nightmare. To drown his	'3
sorrow or banish it from his mind he drinks—not once, . 3 for that does not help the matter—but deep and often.	./3
Like the bankrupt who forges one bill of exchange to. pay	w
another, he adds crime to misfortune, and only when it is t Jn
18
THE’ N'OTEfe' ‘DAME SCHOLASTIC.
too late realizesMlUfatal mi^ke-*he ksh matte’‘Here*i?) advantages or disadvantages; bodily perfections or ina-
where he has torn down that which he can never wholly replace—his reputation I—marred and blotted the spotless scroll which God unrolled before him! Does he try to reason down the upbraiding voice of conscience by the shallow sophism that he is not a free agent ? Quite likely; but oh! he knows better! He was free to choose the pathway in life which he would follow, and now when he realizes that he has made a bad choice he cannot escape the responsibility of his action. Perhaps in his rash temerity he will affect the belief that there is no future reward for well-doing, no punishment for evil. One step further and he is ready to affirm there is no God. It is a progressive course, and oh! so very common at the present time! But can this transition take place without a struggle? Can that which is divine in man be torn out, trampled upon, destroyed, and all without a parting pang? We
saw how grandly the old elm clung to the earth that nourished it, and how the soil clung round its roots to the last moment. Is it not so with those early lessons of piety— that sweet and wondrous history of Bethlehem and Cal-vaiy ? Those convictions of later years which like a fair and thrifty forest of trees had thrust down their roots, spread aloft to the sunlight their graceful branches and become indeed a part of his life,—can these be torn away uprooted, without causing pain, without leaving a ghastly, unsightly blank? No; it cannot be. The man who would pull down old Trinity if he received the proper “checks” could no doubt do so without a shadow of remorse—nor would he be so very wrong—for he was only obeying the orders of his superior; but in this case mark the difference: the mandate comes alone from no higher source than his own weak, perverted heart It is better to build up than to tear down.	_
In this eager, rushing world, whatever impedes the progress of public sentiment must be cut down and removed. It is a race in which each man feels impelled to remove every obstacle from his path—to cast aside every superfluous garment, that he may win the prizes and preferments But let not the young man fancy—as too many do—that the religious convictions and the simple trust in God which have been his from infancy can ever prove obstacles or burdens to him in the race. As well might the crew consider the pilot who is guiding their boat a dead weight and cast him overboard,—they would fail, and the world would ridicule their folly*	T. A. D.
Ambition.
The opinions of others concerning us, when expressed by corresponding words or actions, are principal sources of happiness or misery. The pleasures of this kind are generally referred to the head of honor, but the pains to that of shame. We are here to inquire by what associations it is brought about that men are solicitous to have some particulars concerning themselves made known to the circle of their friends and acquaintance, or to the world in general; and certain others concealed from them; why they are desirous that indications of these kinds of particulars should be made known, so as to produce approbation, esteem, praise, etc.; why dislike, censure, contempt, etc., occasion such intense pain—these particulars are generally classed by philosophers under four heads, viz.: external
perfections; intellectual accomplishments or defects; and virtue or vice. Let us select the analysis of one of these classes of feelings of ambition.
•’ The intellectual accomplishments which occasion the feelings of ambition are sagacity, memory, invention, wit and learning; and their opposites, are folly, dulness and ignorance. Now, it is evident that, independent of the intrinsic value of the former class, and the disadvantage of the latter, the circumstance of their being made known to others respectively produces privileges and pleasures, or subjects them to inconvenience and pain. It follows, therefore, that every discovery of this kind to others, also every mark or associate of such discovery will, by association, raise up the remembrance of those privileges and pleasures, or inconveniences and pains; and these being gradually blended together, and united with those with which each
repetition of the producing cause is accompanied, afford in each instance a peculiar compound of pleasure or pain, which, by the custom of our language, has the word honor or shame respectively connected with it.
This general account may apply to each of the four classes of ambition; but the feelings of honor or shame connected with them require a more minute analysis. A great part, perhaps the greatest, is derived from the high encomiums, applause and flattery paid to talent and learning, and the ridicule and contempt thrown upon folly and ignorance, in all the discourses and writings of men of genius and literature. These persons are extremely partial to their own excellencies, and carry the opinion of the world along with them by the force of their abilities and eloquence. It is also to be observed that in the education of young persons, and especially of boys and young men, great rewards are conferred in consequence of intellectual abilities and attainments, and great punishments follow negligence and ignorance; and rewards and punishments being respectively associated with the words expressing praise and censure, and with all their other circumstances, gives to praise or censure more vivid memories of those pleasures and pains.
In like manner the kinds of honor and shame, by being expressed in words and symbols, which are nearly related to each other, enhance each other; thus, for example, the caresses which are given to a child, when he is dressed in fine or new clothes, prepare him to be much more affected with the caresses and encomiums bestowed upon him when he has been diligent in getting his lesson; and indeed it ought to be remarked that the words and ph rases of the parents, superiors, governors, and attendants have so great an influence over children, when they first come to the use of language, as instantly to generate an implicit desire or a high degree of pleasure. Unless very improper treatment has been practiced, they have at that early period no suspicions, jealousies, recollections or expectations of being deceived or disappointed; and therefore a set of words expressing pleasure of any kind which they have experienced, put together in almost any manner, will raise up in them a pleasurable feeling, and the opposite words a painful one. Hence it is easy to see that the language expressing praise or blame must instantly, from the mere associations connected with the separate words, put them into a state of hope and joy, or of fear and sorrow; and when the foundation is thus laid, praise and blame will keep their influences, from the advantages or disadvantage attending them, though the separate words
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	19 s
should lose their particular influences, as they manifestly do in our progress through life.
The honor and shame arising from intellectual accomplishments do often, in learned men, after a time, destroy in a great measure their sensibility in respect to every kind of honor and shame; and this seems chiefly to arise from their conversing much with books and learned men, insomuch as to have a great part of the pleasures which they receive from such intercourse closely connected with the encomiums on abilities and learning, hearing all terms of honor applied to them, and the keenest reproach and the most insolent contempt cast upon the contrary defects. As the pleasures which raillery, ridicule and satire afford to the bystanders are very considerable, so the person who is the object of them, and who begins to be in pain upon the first slight mark of contempt, has this pain much enhanced by the contrast, the uneasiness and confusion rising in proportion to the degree of mirth and insolent laughter in the bystanders. Thus it happens that very few persons have courage to stand the force of ridicule, but subject themselves to considerable bodily pains, to losses, and to the anxiety of a guilty mind, rather than appear foolish, absurd, singular, or contemptible to the world, or even to persons of whose judgment and ablities they have a low opinion.	L. 0.
A Model Student.
Youth is the foundation of manhood; and the habits, good or evil, formed in early years cling to us through life. That we do not make more generous efforts to rectify our lives when young, is because we have not succeeded in convincing ourselves of this truth. Of the many young men who enter college, or elsewhere pursue studies, very few there are who had not at the beginning the inti ntion of becoming earnest students, but of the many who even graduate, how few there are that merit the name? how few can say, after their long years of student-life, that they have so much as acquired the habit of study! How does it happen ? Precisely because the present moment is lost sight of—because the expectaion of becoming, some time or other, what we are not now, makes us forget the necessity of present effort. Study is wearisome,—everyone knows that,—and unless the object for which one studies, whatever it maybe, is kept constantly in view, perseverance is next to impossible.
Example too is all-important; the sight of a studious companion is more of an incentive to a lazy boy, than any amount of entreaty or advice. To propose an example of a perfect student as well as a perfect Christian is our intention in writing this little sketch of one whose name is not, perhaps, unfamiliar to the reader—Blessed John Berchmans. He was born in the ancient town ofDiest, in Belgium, at the close of the 16 th century. In his youth he manifested the happiest dispositions, and when old enough to choose a state of life, gave preference to the Church. The virtues and talents for which he was to be distinguished in after life were visible in Berchmans when only a boy. Blessed with a quick and retentive memory, industrious and persevering, he made great progress in his studies, and by his charming disposition won the esteem of his teachers and fellowstudents.
After finishing his preliminary studies, John was put under the care of Father Peter Emerick, a Premonstra-
tensian monk, who seems to have had a -great admiration and affection for his young charge. The ■ portrait -of this good old man may yet be seen in the sacristy', of the village church. Later on, Berchmans moved to . Mechlin, where in the house of a certain canon, he continued his studies, making a return in domestic work. His sweet disposition endeared him to all, and his company was eagerly sought by many young men far above him -in the social scale. Such was the exquisite delicacy of- his conscience that he did not know even by name vices to which -boys are generally not strangers. A new college having been . founded at Mechlin by the Jesuits, Berchmans decided to. enter it, and was found fit for the class of rhetoric. He'. now redoubled his zeal for study, and was soon at the head of his class.
A desire for the religious life, of which his professors were such perfect examples, soon sprung up in the heart	'
of Berchmans. His father, being poor, opposed this in. clination, fearing to lose the help he hoped to receive from his son when he had finished his studies, and it was with -great reluctance that he finally gave his consent that John should embrace the religious life in the Society of Jesus, for which he had a predilection on account of its being the religious family of which the angelic Aloysius was a beatified member. John was seventeen years of age when he	,
presented himself at the door of the Jesuit novitiate, then in	;
Mechlin. There he was affectionately received, and passed the first term of his religious life; and his amiable virtues	~
rendered him an object of love and admiration to his superiors and religious brethren, who called him the “ angel of the novitiate.” Those only who have experienced it can know the happiness of the first years of a religious life, when the soul tastes for the first time how sweet it is to serve unreservedly the King of kings, where that peace which the world knows not of takes full possession of the heart.
In 1618 Berchmans was sent to Rome, where he was to	’
spend the few-remaining years of his saintly life. His' residence was the famous Roman College, of which Father Cepari, the biographer of St. Aloysius, was rector. The wonderful talents of the young scholastic soon attracted
the attention of his professors and fellow-students. His	|
method of study has been preserved; it is remarkable for	]
three qualities—care of time, order in its distribution, and	j
unwearied perseverance. At the close of the day, he was	‘
accustomed to examine how he had fulfilled the obligation of study, and renewed the resolution of applying himself more earnestly to the work in hand.
That care of time and persevering effort are indispensable for the attaining of success in an occupation or pursuit requires no demonstration. But something more is re-quired. A student may be industrious and persevering,	J
and careful not to lose an hour of the time allotted to work,	:
but unless he makes a careful distribution of time, allowing	t
to each study just the amount it requires, and allowing no other task, however important it may seem, to interfere with	i
it, he will frequently be found unprepared when the class	- J
hour comes round, and, at the close of the day, with much work undone.
Among the resolutions which were found in a little	]
memorandum-book of Berchmans. after his death was one	. I
which shows how careful he was to profit by the instruc '	. *
tions given in class by his professors. It was to take down in an abbreviated form whatever might have been said re-	i
garding the subject of the lesson. Very often the remarks ■	. d
A:?.;
20	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of a good professor are of more value than what is contained in the text-book; and a teacher who is communicative and full of his subject will throw a flood of light on what was but obscure on the written page.
’Before class, Berchmans was accustomed to make a short visit to the Blessed Sacrament, where, in the words of Solomon, he prayed for a share of wisdom. He was always the first at the class-room, and, while waiting, pulled out his book and began to read. D uring the professor’s lecture he never raised his eyes from his paper. If there was anything ’he did not understand, he frankly asked an explanation when the lecture was finished. He spoke Latin admirably well, but made no parade of it; he simply said, Vere Pater, non intellexi, and then awaited a reply.
It must not be supposed that Berchmans’ application to study was detrimental to his practice of virtue; quite the contrary. Study he regarded as one of his duties, and, like all other duties, he tried to perform it perfectly. But we have exceeded our limits of time and space. We wish we could say more on the life of Blessed Berchmans. It seemed but an ordinary one; he differed very little, apparently, from those around him. However, it was in reality an extraordinary life—extraordinary for fidelity in little things If Berchmans were living now in our midst, no doubt he would be thought simply a good Christian student, but the infallible Church asserts that he practised virtue in an heroic degree, and proposes his example for imitation to Christian youth.
Berchmans died on the 13th of August, 1621, and was beatified by the present illustrious Pope. S. H. H.
Woman’s Influence.
AN~ESSAY bead at the annual commencement at st. maby’s, June 23,1875.
Woman’s influence! what a profoundly interesting theme ! one that has elicited the attention of divines, sages and philosophers. Woman’s influence! so extensive, pervading all the relations of life, entering into the destinies of nations, and, still grander, so entering into the economy of Divine Providence as to be potent even in the realms where eternity is the measure of duration!
The pages of both Sacred and Profane History teem with examples illustrating the influence of woman. In the family-circle she is indeed the moral lever on which turns the balance for good or evil, and from the home-circle her influence radiates till it affects even the destinies of nations.
We take up the Holy Book, and lo! on its first pages we find woman’s influence exercised—we blush to say, to the apparent injury of the human family—but immediately we find recorded that a Second Eve shall repair the fault of the First Eve, and mankind rejoices in anticipation of the coming of that peerless woman whose power is to crush the serpent’s head and whose benign influence is to be felt for all eternity.
We read of Miriam, watching over the frail basket among the flags of the Nile, where Moses, the future leader of the Israelites, lay concealed,—that Miriam whose song of triumph inspired the Jewish hosts with grateful enthusiasm, as she sang the paean of their deliverance. We read of Deborah, whose great wisdom in .council was equalled by her bravery. It was her influence that nerved the little army of the Israelites to give battle to the countless hosts of Sisera. Her battle-cry was the expression of her faith
in the God of armies, yet when she chanted her sublime, her glorious song of victory, she named herself as the Mother, not the captain of her people, and with delicate humility let the timid Barac share the glory herself had won. Shall we allude to Judith, who, decked with modesty and armed with faith and undaunted courage, entered even the camp of the enemy—there to use her influence for the salvation of her people? Or shall we not praise the timid Esther, who though fainting at the frown of the the mighty Assuerus, was so powerful in her timid, pleading beauty as to avert the impending destruction of her nation and win for it its sovereign’s protecting smile, as he benignly said: “ This law is not made for thee! ”
Even among the Pagan nations how important the influence of woman! The Spartan mothers and the mother of the Gracchi are familiar examples, and we all know how the mother of Coriolanus, by her influence over her son, saved ungrateful Rome from his vengeance. Marcins Coriolanus could brave all dangers and prove implacable to his enemies and the appeals of his distressed countrymen, but he did not think it unmanly to soften before the tearful entreaties of his mother, wife and other noble matrons; and so acknowledged was the power of woman’s gentle influence that even the fierce Volsci, though seemingly wronged, did not blame his tenderness of heart. Many other Pagan and infidel women have immortalized themselves on the pages of history by the influence they exerted in the destiny of nations, but the greatest number have used their power so wickedly that they but serve as the dark background which gives prominence to the beautiful and majestic figures of those God-fearing women who used their influence on the side of virtue, humanity and patriotism. While the mother of Boabdil was urging her Moslem son to deeds of daring and revenge, Isabella of Spain by her influence over the minds of Christian men inspired them with the patriotic heroism that enabled them at Granada to break the Moslem power and give back to Spain her Christian rights. And surely no American can forget what we owe to this Catholic queen, whose influence cheered and sustained the great Columbus when with sublimest faith he set out to explore unknown seas in search of that mysterious land which his inspired vision saw beyond the western horizon; and when our America shall erect a noble monument to Christopher Columbus, Isabella of Castile should be there represented as the angel of his destiny, the noble type of woman’s influence.
Many other beautiful illustrations are found upon the pages of history. Spain has her Maid of Saragossa-France her Maid of Orleans. Our own America has her gentle Indian maiden, the famed Pocahontas; and when we speak the praises of our Nation’s Chief, do we not love to speak of her whose wise and gentle influence made him noble, true and brave—her whose memory is enshrined in our hearts as the mother of our Washington !
Why have we thus so freely called attention to the power our sex has wielded over the destinies of nations ? It is to inspire ourselves with a high sense of our responsibility. It is to learn, by the examples of those we have named, how to use the influence God has so generously given us for good and noble purposes; and though content to work out our destiny in the safe, ordinary field of feminine duty and gentle benevolence, yet when some fearful crisis calls
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
for Iwa hearts and iron nerves, to step forth courageously like the heroines of old, strong in the strength of God, powerful in weakness, safe in our defenselessness. For has not God Himself been pleased to honor our sex by personifying His Church under the figure of a woman— which beautiful fact has by the great orator Montalembert been graphically embodied in one of his sublimest flights of oratory. “The Church,” he says, “like a defenseless woman, bares her breast to her enemy, saying,‘Strike!’ but who so unmanly as to strike ? None.” Then let us be true to the holy, gentle mission of our sex. Let us keep before us the heroic examples of noble, God-fearing women—but above all, the sublime example of her whom all generations shall call blessed—that Maiden Mother whose influence over her Divine Son made Him at the marriage-feast of Cana of Galilee anticipate the hour of His manifestation. Thus may it even be our happy privilege often to change the sorrowful waters of bitterness into the wines of consolation by that gentle power given by our Creator—that acknowledged power called Woman’s Influence.	S. A.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Preston Powers is at work at Florence on a bust of Grant, which is excellent.
—A bust of Beethoven, the work of M. Vidal, has just been placed in the new Paris Opera-House.
—Mr. Theodore Thomas’ next series of symphony concerts in Boston will begin on the 17th of November.
—A work has been published in Germany edited by Herr Ferdinand Sieber, containing 10,000 popular songs catalogued and classified, with their themes noted.
—Mr. Franklin Simmons, the sculptor, is to receive $15,000 from the City of Providence for the bronze figure of the proposed Roger Williams’ monument in that city.
—The Museum of Art in Boston has become the possessor of Corot’s picture of “ Dante and Virgil,” which is not a figure-piece, as might be supposed, but chiefly a landscape.
—The New York market for good pictures is said to be improving, so that the dealers—Goupil, Schaus, etc.—are buying fewer pictures, but of a better class, this season than last
—The marble statue of Gov. Andrew, intended for his grave at Hingham, was made by Thomas Gould, at Florence, and is now in Boston. The cost of this statue was $10,090.
—Mme. Le Vert is in Salt Lake City. She is reading for the Mormons, and collecting materials for a volume of her Western travels, to be called “The Wonder Land of the West.”
—The statue of Goethe to be erected in Central Park, New York, is expected to arrive in this country from Germany in time for a celebration upon the 126th birthday of the poet.
—The Academy states that the bust of Beethoven by M. de Saint Vidal that was exhibited in the last Saloon, has been bought by the Administration of Fine Arts for the new Opera House in Paris.
—The managers of the Art Department of the Essex Institute, Salem, Mass., are making arrangements to hold an art exhibition there during the latter part of October or the first part of the following month.
—Mr. Sullivan has been commissioned, rumor states, to compose an opera expressly for the Italian Theatre in St. Petersburg for the season 1876-7, provided Madame Nil-son be engaged to enact the principal part.
—For the Committee to act upon the Sumner models in Boston, a dozen well-known gentlemen were selected, among them being Richard H. Dana, Jr., Charles Eliot Norton, Alexander H. Rice, and Richard Frothingham.
—The competitors for the violoncello, during the Paris V ~ ■ Conservatory examination, to the number of eight, executed 'W$-the sixth concerto of Romberg. A young lady, Mlle. Hille* macher, pupil of M. Franchomme, gained the first prize. ■ - ■ -
—The Thomas Orchestra start on a Western tour Sept;
27, returning to New England Nov. 1. The West demands a larger supply of “Wagner” than even Mr. Thomas can furnish, as he cannot accept one-half the engagements offered him there.
—The New-Yorkers are startled to hear, in a letter from. Col. Forney, of a monument by the French sculptor, Bartholdi, to be paid for by French Republicans, and to be placed on Bedloe’s Island, in the harbor. Nobody has ever heard of it before.
—The Prix de Salon seems again to have produced great dissatisfaction. French artists appear to be almost unanimously of the opinion that it was due to M. Georges Becker for his remarkable work representing Rizpah driving the birds of prey from the dead bodies of her sons, but the jury have not so awarded it.
—The Massachuestts statues for the old Hall of Representatives at Washington are to be of Samuel Adams and. John Winthrop. Miss Whitnew has the commission for the Adams, Richard Greenough for Winthrop, and the statues are both nearly completed in marble. The State appropriated $30,000 for these two statues.
—The eighth musical festival of the Lower Rhine came at Mannheim on the 4th and 5th inst. The principal works in the programme were Mendelssohn’s “ St. Paid,” the second part of Schumann’s “ Faust, ” and the Ninth Symphony. The performers numbered 940, of whom 140 were in the band, and 800 in the chorus-
—The London Athenawm of July 24 says : “ On Wednes-	1
day last a deputation, comprising Royal Academicians,	<
waited upon the Government authorities connected with the approaching Exhibition at Philadelphia, in order to urge that insurances should be effected on works of ar t sent to America on this occasion. It is said that if such a security cannot be obtained owners will not be disposed
to send their treasures.
—The Independent says: “It having been announced that Gustav Dor6 was coming to this country next year to see the great show in Philadelphia, some Western editor remarks, with more force than he was probably aware of, that he was very glad to hear of it, as our signpainting needed improvement. It is in a kind of art that does not deserve to bejranked much higher than that of	■
sign-painting that Gustav Dore has 'recently preferred to-	’
exercise his talent.”	’
—Professor Brunn, of Munich, condemns as works of the Cinque-Cento period the two celebrated onyx vases in Naples and Brunswick. As to the Brunswick vase it may not matter so much, since doubts had before been enter tained about its antiquity, notwithstanding the fact of its history being known back to the year 1630. But to throw suspicion on the Farnese Tazza at Naples must, when it is done by a person of Brunn’s authority, leads to grave doubts as to the genuineness of large cameos generally.
—The King of Sweden recently forwarded the medal for art and science, accompanied by a complimentary letter, to Herr von Fischer, of Herent, Hungary. This	J
gentleman is a porcelain manufacturer, whose wares had attained great celebrity. He was at the same time informed .
of his election as honorary member of the Art and Indus-
trial Museum at Stockholm, of which the King of Sweden	I
is patron. He has received a large order from New York,	1
and a porcelain service has been maufactured by him for
the Princess of Saxe Coburg.—Witfeon’s Art Journal.	i
—The Gazette Musicals de Paris states that the Seyyid	i
of Zanzibar, at the operatic representation which he	I
honored with his presence, paid more attention to the
music of the third act of La Juice than to the ballet, which	J
it was thought would please him most. The surprise,	j
however—adds our contemporary—was greater when it	i
was learned that the Seyy id is a pianist of high pretensions	i
At the house of a manufacturer, where he bought a piano	1
mecanique, the Seyyid astonished his hosts by executing	;
like a real virtuoso a grand fantasia by Thalberg.—Watson's	|
Art Journal^	i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,

—The Court Theatre of Munich will henceforth give every year, between the 22nd of August and 18th of September, a series of model performances for the behoof of the numerous strangers who visit the Bavarian Capital in the autumn. The repertory for this year is rich and eclectic; “Wilhelm Tell,” “Tannhauser.” “Don Juan,” “Frei-schutz.” “Josef der Waffenschmidt,” by Lortzing; Mehul’s “ Uthal, ” Gounod’s “ Medecin malgre lui,” and Cherubini's “Wassertrager,” without counting Schumann’s “Manfred,” the “Ruins of Athens,” and the “Midsummer Night’s Dream,” works which will be given at the Theatre of the Residency.
—Among the new operas ready to be produced in Italy are “ Iram,” by Domenicetti; “ Gioconda,” by Ponchielli; “ Marie e Fernanda,” by Ferrari, (Opera of Lucca;) “ Cleopatra,” by Rossi, (Reggio of Turin.') “Don Giovanni d’Austria,” by Marchetti; a new edition of “ Fosca ” and “Maria Tudor,”by Gomes; “Marian Delorme” and “Il Georgio Gandi,” by Perilla; “Diana,” by Sangwigi; “Diana” and “ Salambo,” by Petrella, and new operas unnamed, by Fumagalli, Schira, and Ciro Pinsuti. During the forthcoming season will be mounted at the Milan Scala, Josse’s “La Lega”; at the Reggio of Turin, Rossi’s “Cleopatra,” and Marchetti’s “Gustavus Vasa”; at Venice, Libani’s “ Conte Verde”; at Trieste, Verdi’s" Dou Carlos ” and the ballet “ Brahma.”
—The New York World, speaking of the New York Philharmonic Society, says: Another evidence of unwonted enterprise is shown in the selection for three of its concerts of those nights already chosen by Mr. Theodore Thomas for his symphonic soirees. Competition is said to be the soul of business. It really looks as if the Philharmonic at least meant business. But these sudden awakenings often lead to indiscretion. As many of us would like to verify the promise of new vigor by being present at the concerts, we can only regret that they should be offered on Thomas nights—especially as Thomas nights threaten to be Von Bulow nights as well. We suggest to the reviving Society, now that it has risen in its strength and changed its programmes, that it go on in the good work and change its nights.
—The New York correspondent of the Boston Saturday Evening Gazette says: Whether it is Gilmore’s music, the refreshing garden, or the energetic management of Shook and Palmer that has made the success of the Gilmore Concert-Garden, I shall not pretend to say. That it is an unequivocal success there is no denying. Seven thousand persons is the fewest that have attended that garden on any night since its opening. The management is coining money, and if Mr. Gilmore’s personal profits continue as they are now, he will have a comfortable fortune before the season is over. The music, while it makes no pretensions to being classic, is the best of its kind, and Arbuckle aud Levy need no blowing other than their own to prove their popularity is well earned; and may they live long to blow their own trumpets. No one can ever do it so well as them.
—The New York Herald of the 18th says: “That the name of Mozart has lost none of its magic powers with the music-loving people of New York, even during the sultry nights of August, was amply shown last night at Thomas’ Garden. The audience was very large and correspondingly appreciative of the old composer, whose memory will be revered long after many of the would-be musical reformers of the present day are entirely forgotten. Mr. Thomas prepared an entire surprise even for those who were familiar with Mozart’s works. In a field generally supposed to have been thoroughly gleaned, he has found new attractions that were rapturously received last evening. The “ Coneertone,” for two solo violins, oboe, and violoncello, with orchestral accompaniment—the solo quarttet being magnificently rendered by Messrs. Jacobsohu, Arnold, Eller, and Hernan— proved to be an unexpected treat. It is in four movements and represents Mozart in his happiest vein. Then there was a delicious concerto for flute and harp, played by Messrs. Wehner and Lockwood, that was to a certain degree the piece de resistance of the evening. Nothing could be more artistically conceived and wrought out ingeniously than his concerto. The other works on the programme were an introduction and fugue in C minor, the Grand Symphony
on’C (Jupiter), “ Rondo de Chasse,” the overtures to “ Magic Flute,” and “ Marriage of Figaro,” and the Masonic funeral music. The performance was worthy of the high renown of Thomas’ Orchestra. Raff’s “Im Walde” symphony will be given on Thursday night.
—The New York Water-Color Society has made itself a well-recognized place in American art. It is a body of artists interested in a particular branch of their profession, and doing all within their power to convince the general public of its merits. They are not in any way trying to supplant oil-painting,—-most of the members, in fact, working largely in that medium,—but only trying to show that art is too broad to be confined to on ematerial, and that, if oil possesses great depth and solidity, water-color has superior brilliancy and transparency. In their first efforts they had to contend against prejudices arising both from ignorance and interest, and also against the fact that sev-eral similiar societies, starting more brilliantly than this, had collapsed, so that many artists who had formerly , worked in water-colors had given it up, disgusted with an I unappreciative public : so the Society could scarcely scrape together works„enough to make its first exhibition, j which occupied (but did not cover the walls of) two of the smaller rooms at the Academy, in connection with the winter exhibition of that institution. Then the Society crept,—now it walks firmly. The last two exhibitions, held independently of any other body, the rooms merely being rented of the Academy, were decidedly successes. ’ It has always been the policy of the Society to effect as many sales for exhibitors as possible. The sales this year i amounted to $15,000, last year to $10,000—all this on works averaging less than §100 each. This average, however, is	I
steadily increasing, showing improved taste on the part of	‘
the public, as well as better work on exhibition. Next year it is the intention to occupy the whole of the National Academy, which can readily be done, over 2-00 works being sent back this year, while about 600 were exhibited. An especial effort is also proposed for the Centennial.—Chicago	’
Tribune.	•
Magazines of the Month,
—The September number of the Catholic World, is very 1 interesting. The contents are: I, The Rights of the Church over Education; II, Are You My Wife; HI, A
Visit to Ireland in 1874; IV, The Legend of Friar’s Rock; V. Dunluce Castle (Poetry); VI, Space; VII, An Episode;
VIII, The Cross in the Desert; IX, Origin and Progress of the Mission of Kentucky; X, Blessed Nicholas von der Flue; XI, The Assumption (Poetry); XII, The Scientific	j
Goblin; XIII, The Happy Islands (Poetry); XIV, New	;
Publications: Les Droits de Dieu et Les Idees Modernes— Memoirs of General William T Sherman—A Politico-Historical Essay on the Popes as the Protectors of Popular ] Liberty—The First Christmas: a Mystery Play—The Story	j
of S. Stanislaus Kostka—Biographical Readings—The	(
Young Ladies’ Reader—Announcement—Books and Pam-	i
phlets Received.	■
—The Manhattan and De La Salle Monthly for September	;
has been received. The contents are: I, Mr. Maurice, A / ? Tale of Love and Faith of our own Day. Chaps. I, II;	:
II, A Translation from the Classics; IH, Felicia Hernans;
IV, Daniel O’Connell, An Address delivered at the Celebra- 5 tion of the O’Connell Centenary; V, An Old Latin Poet;
VI, The Renaissance; VII, The Presentation Nun; VIII, The Coming Home, Conclusion—Chaps. VII, VIII; IX, American' Officers in Egypt ; X, Famous Memories of the Month; A great sea-fight in a Neutral Port—Battle at Fayal between the U. S. Privateer “ General Armstrong” and a British Squadron. XI, Music: Its Character, Emotional and National. XII, The Peasant Boy; XIII, Shaking Hands with Royalty; XIV, Literary Oddities, No. 2;
XV, Miscellany; XVI,Current Publications.
—The September number of- Church's Musical Visitor is • j out. The musical contents of this number are as follows :	j
“ I dearly love to Ramble in the Dell,” song and chorus, by	!
Persley; “ Chatterbox Galop,” by Geo. F. Root; “Slumber, * Gentle Lady,” Serenade, by Mori; “ Greeting from Afar,” I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
23
March, by Michaelis; and “Reception Waltz,” for piano or cabinet organ, by Baker. There are in all, thirteen full pages of good music—a feast for players and singers. The literary departments are of more than ordinary interest, embracing articles by well-known musical writers, and the usual quantum of editorials and short notes of interest to anyone who has the “faintest glimmer of love for music and art.” The subscription price of the Visitor is $1.50 a year, which includes a valuable premium. Send stamp for sample copy, to the publishers, John Church & Co., Cincinnati, O.
—We are in receipt of Brainard’s Musical World, for September, a most excellent number. The Miscellany contains: I, Poetry—In Remembrance of my Little Harry; II, Mysie’s Music; III, The Subjection of Music; IV, The Wandering Minstrel; V, Poetry—Address to the Torrent in Boulder Canon, Rocky Mts; VI, Influence of Music; VII, Sing More; VIII, Musical World Letters; IX, Musical Items; X, New Music. The Editorials are: I, Our Letter Box; II, Our Likeness; III, Musical Hints; IV, Applause; V, Old Manuscripts; VI, Oh! for a Subject; VII, The Subjection of Music; VIII, Book Notices. The Music of the number is: I, Winsome Little Mary—Geo. W. Persley; II, Silver Streamlet—Gustave Lange; IH, Songs of olden Days—TV G. Levey IV, Happy Day Polka—K Dona-gowski. Terms $2 per annum. Single copies 25 cents.
Published by S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland.
—The Vox Humana, published by Woods & Co., Cambridgeport, Mass., for September has been received and contains the usual amount of interesting reading matter on music; together with a selection of vocal and instrumental pieces, among the former we are pleased to see our old favorite “ The Joy Green.” It is one of the very best musical magazines that we receive,
Building a Bonfire,
“Let us have an illumination; let us build afire out here on the water,” said one of our party. We were “ picnicking” that sultry July day ata summer resort on the banks of a delightful little lake—a lovely sheet of crystal water, and we had rowed far out from the shore to see what is everywhere pronounced beautiful—a sunset on the water. Some of our party were engaged in sketching (for future exhibition) the glorious panorama of sky and clouds and reflections from the waves; others were well pleased to sit in silent yet eloquent admiration, scarcely heeding the low ripple of conversation that ran from boat to boat, while I was watching (somewhat anxiously, perhaps,) a great mountain bank of nimbus clouds that rose sullen and dark above the southern horizon and from which lurid flashes of lightning darted down, from time to time, like serpents’ tongues, to sting the softly murmuring waves. The sun had set, and the rosy amber of twilight was fast yielding place to the deeper shadows of night when the foregoing remark aroused me from the reverie into which I had fallen. “A romantic idea, Miss Blank,” I replied; “ but unfortunately, water will not burn.” “ How stupid! of course I know that! but here is every boat half filled with straw,—and perhaps you know straw will float; you are a confirmed smoker, and, of course, have matches,—lo, the materials! and now for a bonfire, (bon, meaning good).” We went to work at once and soon had a great mass of straw heaped up on the water, in the centre of a circle surrounded by our boats. When all was in readiness, the torch was applied, and we withdrew to a safe distance, where we could watch our weird illumination and admire its ghastly effect upon the surrounding objects. It was grand; the flames shot up until they seemed to reach and
scorch the stars; the darkness was driven back to the-sheltering protection of the far-distant, wooded shores, and. our boats lay like great black phantoms upon the lurid-crested waves. But it was of short duration; our bonfire died out with a suddenness that was startling and the darkness rushed down upon us again with an intensity that almost took away our senses. The illumination was over; it seemed to me that the shadows had become palpable, and that I could feel the pressure of their wings as they rushed past; it was not a time for conversation; we could not talk if we would; and we returned in almost unbroken silence to the shore.
The next morning I was up early and away on a fishing excursion to the deep floods that lay along the northern margin of the lake. Here I met the evidences of our last night’s illumination—little eddies filled with fragments of burned and blackened straw, two or three pieces of fine boards, and a few splinters of broken oars. That was all, the darkness had gone, and throwing my lines into the deep water, I leaned back in one corner of the boat and let my thoughts drift—like the useless debris around me—whither they would. Was not our amusement last evening a type of what we see so often—alas! too often—in this gilded age ? Behold the men whom we recognized as geniuses— men who flashed up like stars in a stage sky, or like the flame of our last night’s fire; our admiration knew no bounds, so long as it was popular to- admire; but' they could not last, the magic of novelty was chief among their credentials; they disapproved, and the waves of oblivion rolled back upon the pathways they had brightened, deep, black and impenetrable. Well, we must have our heroes, and we must worship them, be they politicians, capitalists, vegetarians, prize-fighters, speculators, spiritualists or balloonists—men of one idea all, and that perhaps a bad one—little men whom we have chosen to call great, men whom we might have inflated and elevated far above their sphere that we might satisfy our morbid love for the marvellous; rockets that we have thrown into the midnight sky that we might enjoy the brief illumination caused by their destruction. Where are they now ? “ Here I” said I, suddenly rousing up; “here, scattered all around me. That little eddy contains a thousand of them. Those fragments of blackened straw, those bits of broken oars, what are they but the wrecks of geniuses drifted ashore after the world’s great carnival ? They might have been useful in some lowly sphere, but the world wanted amusement, and so it made a bonfire of them—built it, too, upon the most antagonistic and unstable of elements—water; and lo! the result— for a few moments the admiration of the giddy multitude, and then—drifted ashore to decay among the foul weeds— useless, unpitied and forgotten. Oh! the world is full of them,—wrecks of counterfeit great men—puppets who danced at the world’s fair—sticks of exploded rockets—as worthless now as a broken oar or a rejected manuscript. *Did they deserve this fate? I fancy not. They were no doubt ambitious; they were perhaps vain and haughty—proud of their petty brilliancy—weak men, counterfeits, usually are; every one of them peradventure fancied that he was turning the crank which moved this giddy old world, but still they were far less culpable than the hero-seeking throng who out of their weakness moulded a toy to be the pastime of an idle hour. “Ah, well!” said I, as I pulled my boat around a headland and anchored it in a little secluded bay, “ it is bad enough to build afire of straw, but it is the perfection of folly to build it upon the water.” T. A. D.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Tame, September 11, 1S75.
The attention, of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DANCE SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the ninth year of its’ existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
Besides the Local News which will weekly appear, the readers of the SCHOLASTIC will find in it many Literary and Scientific articles of general interest.
Terms, $1.50 Ter Annum,Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Study of German.
The utility of the study of the German language is recognized by all persons, but more especially by citizens of the United States. But though the utility of this study is recognized, it may not be amiss to give briefly some of the many reasons which should induce students to take it up.
There are in the United States many German citizens, Some of them occupying positions of trust and honor. It is with persons of this nationality that all must more or less come in contact. With them business must be carried On. There are few merchants who have not commercial relations with them, either as purchasers of their merchandise or as sellers to them. There is scarcely a man in politics that has not many Germans among his constituents, and in many places theirs is the controlling vote. There are few, if any, lawyers who do not number among their clients a large number of persons of German birth who are wealthy and influential, and whose patronage is of great service to them. The doctor, too, finds them among his patients, the farmer among his purchasers, the contractor among his laborers, and the laborer among his employers. People in all stations of life find themselves brought into relations with them—sometimes as their employers, sometimes as their employees.
That a knowledge of the German language is useful and beneficial to all, then, needs no proof. It is self-evident that he who is able to transact business with these men in their own language is the gainer by it. Many transactions in business may be accelerated by a knowledge of this language ; and though in this country a thorough knowledge of. English, the language of commerce and of the majority of the people, is the more essential, yet a knowledge of German, the language of the great minority, is very important to all who embark in commerce. It should be studied by all, not slightly and superficially, but thoroughly and with care-They should be able, if possible, to master the language.
But the German language is not only useful to the student to assist him when entering business, it is an accomplishment which will be the means of affording him much pleasure.. The language is one of the richest in the world, strong, manly and flexible; and, since Frederick the Great,
much of the world’s wisdom has been written by German scholars. Poets like Schiller, Goethe, and others, have sung undying strains in their native tongue; philosophers like Schlegel, and Gcerres, and hosts of others, have written with a profundity unsurpassed by writers of other nationalities. In every branch of knowledge, the sons of Germany stand eminent. She has produced great Biblical critics, like Hug and Stolz; profound Biblical exegetists like Alber, Ackerman and Molitor; divines like Wiest, Schwatz, Moehler and Liebermann; ecclesiastical historians like Count Stolberg and Alzog; archaeologists like Hammer and Schlosser; and publicists like Gents, Adam Muller and Haller. Writers on art, music and literature, men of the highest order of genius, have served to enrich the German language and make it one of the most elegant and refined in the world. Nor have the writers of German confined themselves to the more serious studies. The minor poets and the novelists of the country have given to the world many of the sweetest tales of modern romance. Surely he who would claim to be accomplished in letters, who would drink deep draughts at thesprings of human knowledge, who would sound the profound depths of philosophy or cull the flowers of poesy wherever found, cannot afford to neglect that language a knowledge of which will open to him these great treasures.
It is because the German language is of such prime importance that the authorities of the College have determined to give more especial care to its teaching. Competent teachers will take charge of the different classes of German, and will give thorough and efficient instruction to the students. Prof. 0. M. Schnurrer, whose ability as a teacher is recognized by all, will take charge of the most advanced class the present year, and will give that satisfaction to all which his ability is sure to command.
The students here should, then, endeavor to take advantage of the opportunity afforded them of studying the German language, knowing as they do that they will be under the instructions of able and accomplished teachers.
A Word, about Education.
We wish to say a word to students about that for which they came to Notre Dame—education,—and endeavor c give them a hint or two in regard to the proper attainment of it.
There are three different kinds of education—moral, intellectual and physical—and if a man is destitute of any one of them he is the less fitted for the life he is to lead.
A moral education consists in the training of the heart, enlarging the moral sentiments, and curbing the passions which are more or less predominant in all persons. This is what is needed by man in order that he may be a good citizen. Society depends for its very existence on this education of the heart, for experience proves that crime is not copfined to those who are ignorant of the sciences, but that some of the greatest criminals were men whose intellects were educated to a high degree. The immense public robberies and political corruption of which we read daily, are due, not to the ignorance of the people (for we are told by all, that as a people we are the most enlightened in the world,) but to the fact that in the education of youth it has been customary in our country to neglect the cultivation of those moral qualities which are necessary to make the honest man. Our people have in their great desire to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
25
educate the intellect paid no attention whatever to the heart. It is for the purpose of making good citizens that in all Catholic schools the morals of the students are first looked after, and as there are no young persons who do not desire to become good and faithful citizens of the Republic hey should in return co-operate freely with the teachers in forming the heart for good.
Intellectual education consists in enlarging and developing the faculties and powers of the mind. This is done by the student at College by a systematic drill in the principles of the different arts and sciences. Education cannot, it is true, be completed at College, but there one obtains that great foundation on which he is to build in after life. Science has many branches, and in no one branch has man ever succeeded in attaining a knowledge of all that can be known. New discoveries are made each day. The telescope brings to us a knowledge of new stars in the firmament; the microscope brings to us information of vegetable and insect life; the geologistand botanist and scientist open to our minds new stores of knowledge-They are at work to-day, they will be at work to-morrow and when cycles of years shall have come and passed away they will still be laboring on, delving into the earth or with the telescope penetrating the vast regions above bringing to us newer information of the great universe in which we live.
But though we cannot learn everything at College, we can as we said above lay the proper foundation on which to build our knowledge in after-life. The College is the place in which the mind is trained, is disciplined; where the knowledge of the general principles of science and art are obtained. It is the place where that knowledge is received which enables us in after-life to obtain still further knowledge without the assistance of a preceptor, for the mind once drilled and disciplined so as to comprehend that which is presented to it, the necessity of a teacher ceases. But that the mind may obtain this power it is necessary that the student should apply himself diligently to his studies, commencing with the simplest elements and proceeding gradually in acquiring a knowledge of the more difficult principles. When he has mastered the elementary studies, then he should proceed to others, and not before, for there is nothing so foolish as advancing too rapidly in acquiring knowledge. That which is acquired rapidly and without reflection goes quickly. Cramming takes the place of solid information, and in the course of a few short years all the knowledge of which the student made use to dazzle the eyes of friends and acquaintances disappears, and he finds that he is less fitted for the acquiring, of information than his slower neighbor who toiled laboriously while he ran. It should be the determination, then, of the student in the beginning of the year to devote himself to obtaining a thorough and reasonable knowledge of the studies he undertakes, and not to waste his time by idle reading and make up for it at examination by cramming.
As in our great desire to obtain an intellectual education we should not neglect the moral education, neither should we pay no heed to the physical. It is sad to think of the many students of talent who have gone to an early grave simply because they devoted all their time and attention j to their studies and took no care to strengthen their physical constitutions. Plenty of exercise should be taken every day by those who study, otherwise their health will give way. A good walk, a little ball-playing, a row on the lake,
is what is needed that the student may keep in. the proper condition for study. But as the physical education must not be sacrificed for the intellectual, on the other hand the physical should not wholly engross the attention. Give to each the time allotted by the authorities of the house, and both will be well attended to.
I
Personal.
—	Ino. Coppinger is practising law in Alton, Hl.
—	D. E. Moloney, of’74, is studying law in Elgin.
—	Thos. O’Neil is cashier at Burke’s Hotel, Chicago.
—	F. McDevitt, is a reporter on the Chicago Times.
—	Mrs. M. M. Phelan, is at present residing at St. Mary’s.
—	P. E. Cochrane, of ’72, is on a visit to New York city.
—	Sebastian Wise is in the dry goods business in Alton, Ill.
—	N. S. Mitchell, of ’72, was at Notre Dame a few days ago.
—	Father Sullivan, of Laporte, made a short call this week.
—	Mrs. P. B. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, is visiting at St. Mary’s.
—	L. S. Hayes, of ’74, is in the City Comptroller’s office, Chicago.
—	George Crummey, of ’7a, is studying medicine in Chicago.
—	C. M. Proctor, of’75, is the Civil Engineer of Elkhart, Indiana.
—	Charles Dodge, of ’74, is practising law in Burling, ton, Iowa.
—	Prof. J. F. Edwards will occupy the same position this year as last.
—	George Ruger is travelling for Wm. Schilling & Co., of Chicago.
—	James Crummey, of ’75, is book-keeping in a Chicago establishment.
—	Arthur M. D. Ransom is a student of Medicine at Michigan University.
—	John Nash, of ’70, is in the merchant-tailoring business, in Rockford, Ill.
—	Mr. M. J. Moriarty is playing this season at McVicker’s Theatre, Chicago.
—	J. H. Gillespie is with M. S. Foote & Co., paper dealers, Burlington, Iowa.
—	Mr. A. Klingel, the boot and shoe man of South Bend, visited us on Wednesday.
—	A. W. Arrington, of ’70, has left Galveston and is now practising law in Chicago.
—	E. J. McLaughlin, of ’75, is at present in San Francisco, recruiting his health.
—	Mr. Heeb, of Dubuque, who attended class here in 1865, was at the College on Monday.
—	J. Noonan, of ’74, is in the Chief Engineer’s office of the L. S. & M. S. R. R. Co., Cleveland.
—	Prof. T. E. Howard practised the arts of agriculture and architecture during vacation.
—	Dr. McBriar and lady, of Portsmouth, Ohio, spent a few days at Notre Dame this week.
—	We made a pleasant call on Mr. P. L. Garrity, 100 Van Buren street, Chicago, last week.
—	John J. Hyland is Contracting Agent for the Erie and North Shore line. He lives in Chicago.
—	Michael Skilling is practising medicine successfully in Philadelphia; he is one of Jefferson’s Alumni.
—	L. Mayr, Esq., of Rockford, Ill., and Mr. F. Mayr, of South Bend, were at the College on Wednesday.
—	Dr. McBrier and lady, of Portsmouth, spent a number of days at the College at the beginning of the week.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
-—By an oversight we did not mention last week that Prof. L. G. Tong would be at his old post as usual.
—Henry Blum, Esq., of South Bend, intends going to Europe for the benefit of his health some time this fall.
—William Hughes, of’75, is in the Office of the Gen’l Superintendent of the Chicago & Pacific Railroad, Chicago.
____Among the clergymen who were with us at the beginning of the week was Rev. E. Vattman, of Dungannon, Ohio.
____Mr. D. A. Clarke, of the Catholic Columbian, visited here Sunday last. He found the Scholastic as large as ever.
—We received a call from Mr. Crockett of the South 'Bend Tribune on Monday last. We are always glad to see him at Notre Dame.
—James L. Ruddiman, teacher of Telegraphy last year, is at present employed by the Metropolitan Tele-raph Co., in Chicago.
—Mr. DeWitt Smith, a popular conductor on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway, made a short visit to the College this week.
—James P. Sewell, formerly a Scholastic typo, and more recently a Chicago Inter Ocean reporter, is at present engaged on the Boston Evening Journal.
—Frank Ingersoll, after a three years’ sojourn in Europe, has commenced the study of law and is pursuing his course at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
—Prof. Lyons spent some four weeks of his vacation in St. Louis, Milwaukee, and other cities in the West and Northwest. He is now teaching in the College.
—J. F. McHugh, of 72, is now a member of the law firm of Wallace, Rice & McHugh, Lafayette. We are happy to learn that he is prosperous in his business, as all who knew him here expected him to be.
—Wm. Hoynes, lately editor of the New Brunswick (N. J.) Times visited the College a few days ago. He is looking well, and is prospering in his business. He has promised to send us a line or two once in awhile.
—Prof. M. A. J. Baasen writes us from his home in Milwaukee that the Scholastic is a welcome visitor and that the daily papers must always make way for it. The Scholastic has no better friend than Prof. Baasen.
—R. H. McCarthy, of ’71, is now in Washington, D. C-After leaving Notre Dame he graduated as Ph. C. and M. D. from Michigan University; attended Jefferson College, Philadelphia, last Winter; and graduated again as AI. d’ last March, and was appointed Assistant Surgeon in the United States Navy last June.
—Mr. James McDermott, a special correspondent for the Brooklyn Eagle and Chicago Post and Mail, and the author of the letters in the Chicago Times over the signature of “ Looney,” is to deliver a lecture in South Bend on the 23d inst. The subject is not yet chosen. He spent a few days this week at Notre Dame. He is travelling in the West for the benefit of his health, and from present appearances seems to be realizing his object.
—Frank E. Bodemann after leaving Notre Dame went to the University of Michigan and graduated from their laboratory as Ph. C. (Pharmaceutical Chemist), in June, 1873. He graduated as M. D. in March, 1874, and is now a brilliant siudent of University College Hospital, London. He is to remain there about six months, then be goes to Paris for nine months, thence to Vienna for the same period, when he returns to his native country to follow his profession in Burlington, Iowa. Frank has been liberally endowed with an amor scientific, and with his brilliant intellect and indomitable perseverance is destined to occupy an eminent position in his noble profession.
—The following persons visited Notre Dame during the past week: George Rettig, Peru, Ind.; Henry Lenzen, Chicago. Ill.; Mr. Miguel Otero, Granada, Col.; Geo. W. Myers, Findlay, Ohio; Geo. Orsinger, La Salle, III.; John Krieg, Mount Pulaski, Ilk; George Kleaner, Chicago, Ill.; Henry Webe, Chicago, Ill.; Thomas Neill, Peoria, Ill.; J. E. O’Brien, Kewanee, Ill.; C. E. Lawrence, Hillsdale, Mich.; Mrs. Campau, South Bend, Ind.; Mr. Hitz. Indianapolis,
Ind.; A. Mayer, Cleveland, Ohio; M. Mosal, Jackson, Miss.; J. Saylor, Antwerp, Ohio; Mrs. Chas. Walsh, Chicago, Ill.; A. Heeb, Dubuque,Iowa; J. Smith,Richmond, Ind.; F. M. Pleins, Dubuque, Iowa; I. Seeger, Dubuque, Iowa; J. Atfield, Marquette, Mich.; JobnuO’Meara, Cincinnati, 0.; R. Holmes, Cleveland, 0.; M. Keller, Tiffin, O.; C. J. Sullivan, Tiffin, O.; P. Murphy, Freeport, Ill.; J. Streil, Sterling, Ill.; D. Lowry, Pekin, Ill.; Miss M. A. Taylor, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Long, Petaluma, Cal.; M. Stanton, Portsmouth, O; AI. M. Gustine, Grand Rapids, Mich.; P. Byrnes, Lima, Ky.; Henry H. Scott, Burlington, Iowa; P. H. Cooney, Washington, D. C.; J. H. Ham, Denver Col.; and Dr. W. A. Atchinson, Nashville, Tenn.
Local Items.
—And still they come!
—Students arrive daily.
—The Band next week.
—The Campus is lively.
—Roll of Honor next week.
—The weather is beautiful.
—Delicious moonlight every night.
—Michael was kept busy by visitors.
—Send in all the local items you can.
—Plenty of work in the printing-office.
—The Minims’ yard looks quite lively.
—“ The performance has now commenced.”
—The Minims are quite numerous this year.
•—A welcome to all, both old and new comers.
—The “ tars ” are already at work on the lake.
—There are many old faces in the College halls.
—Class Honors will appear in our next number.
—And now study is in order from the word “go.”
—Is the chimney of the steam-house tall enoug h ?
—Jeff. Davis is now attending class at Notre Dame.
—The promenade in the Juniors’ has been repaired.
■—Now, let us have a boat-race on the 13th of October.
—Which Society will you join ? That’s the question.
■—Seventy five thousand brick in the new steam-house.
—Classes have begun, and all are in fine working order.
—It wasa merry sight to see the “old boys” coming back.
—The Fearless Baseball Club is not to be reorganized.
—Theyear opened with solemn high Mass on Wednesday.
—There have been no changes made in Washington. Hall.
—“The old, familiar faces” are to beseen^.n the Campus again
—Air. Shickey has been doing a big business this past week.
—We think the grass in the Campus will soon be tramped down.
—A fine walk is building from the Scholasticate to the Presbytery.
—There have been some improvements made in the Stu dents’ Office.
—Do you belong to the Lemonnier Circulating Library Association?	° y "
—The Sodality of the Holy Angels will be reorganized immediately.
—The students will occupy the front pews in the ’ new Church.
—We understand that the reading-room will surely be started this year.	J
—After two months of dulness, Notre Dame brightens up for the next ten.	°
—The St Cecilians will begin work with a large crowd.
We are glad of it.	®
THE NOTRE DAME SCAOLASTIC.
27 " •'
—We have received a good number of new subscriptions to the Scholastic.
—Large additions have been made to the Lemonnier Circulating Library.
—The different committees were kept quite busy on Monday and Tuesday last.
—It is to be hoped that we will receive plenty of communications this year.
—Prof. L. G. Tong has charge of the Commercial Department as usual.
—The Campus now looks gay with the boys promenading around the walks.
—There is a beautiful alabaster statue in the College parlor, lately placed there.
—There was any amount of hand-shaking last Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.
—The rear of the old Church will not be torn down. It will be used as a Lecture Hall.	_
—Quite a number of students will attend the Drawing Class this year. We are glad of it.
—The Minims’ had quite an enjoyable picnic at the St. Joe Farm on Thursday, September 2.
—We will receive all the communications you can send. Just drop them into the bos in the hall.
—Students will remember to put their letters and papers to be sent away in the boxes in the Studies.
—The more local items you drop into the box in the hall, the more interesting will the Scholastic be.
—The Laboratory will be removed in a few days to the room prepared for it just west of the College building.
—There are two goats at the farm house which with their tricks give the residents of the house much enjoyment.	z
—A magic flute is heard of evenings, in the vicinity of the printing office. There is undoubtedly more flute than magic.
—The old church and old steam-house are dying together. It will be several weeks before they will be ready for interment.
—The Blinkers played the Bluffers a game of baseball last Sunday. Logan pitched for the Blinkers. The Bluffers were victorious.
—The Scholastic will be delivered at the Students’ Office every Saturday at half-past three o’clock. Subscriptions will be received there.
—There will be a meeting of the Academia in the Scholastic Office next Wednesday morning, at 9 o’clock, for the purpose of reorganizing.
—The gymnastic apparatuses over on the Campus have been repaired and improved. They will be just the things to keep the boys in good health.
—The walks around the lakes are in fine condition, and many there are who take advantage of this fact. That’s right! wralking is good for the health.
- —The roads leading to the College were quite dusty last Tuesday. The carriages in South Bend were kept busy bringing students to the College.
—All parents desiring a weekly report of matters at Notre Dame, and of seeing the Roll of Honor and Class Honors, should subscribe for the Scholastic.
—If we were to imitate the young editor with the powerful mind who edits the New York Tribune, we would build our “ den ” on top of the new chimney.
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt of several fine specimens donated to the Cabinet of Mineralogy by Master Clement Ham, of Denver, Col.
—Some papers frequently complain of hand-organ music, but it is nothing in comparsion to music produced by hammering on a boiler. We have just got through a siege.
—Mr. James McDermott is to deliver a lecture before the Total Abstinence Society of St Patrick’s Church,
South Bend, sometime about the 20th. It will be a treat to all.
—Professor.—Was Diana or Luna supposed by the an* cients to exert a deleterious influence on the minds of men? Student,—Yes, Professor, Diana was the crazy goddess.
—A promising student in Horace's Ars Poetica translates the 186th line, Aut humane, palam coquat extra nefariua Atreus; “Nor let nefarious Atreus cook human entrails on a shovel!”
—The attendance at class this first week was larger than at the same time in former years. The number of students entered will probably be larger than was ever known here.
—Musical Students are requested to call at the Music Hall, where they will always find a number of Musical Journals from which they can derive much instruction and entertainment.
—We hope that our friends in all parts of the Union will send us many items of interest, giving us the wherabouts and success of old students. These items will be thankfully received.
—Prof. Howard has charge of the Astronomical Observatory. He will be there every Thursday evening (weather permitting) to accommodate all persons who may desire to peep through the telescope.
—We have a specimen of G. W. BIoss’ “copy” framed and hung up in the “ Den ” which we defy any student to decipher. It is an article which appeared in the Cincinnati Enquirer a number of years ago.
—Twelve large coils of pipe were placed under the floor of the new Church, for heating purposes. It is to be expected that these pipes will be sufficient to keep the Church well warmed during the coming winter.
—In a few weeks the court back of the College building will be in better condition. The rubbish is being removed as fast as possible. It will be much more convenient for all concerned when the old steam-house is removed.
—The rooms of the Lemounier Circulating Library are much more pleasant and agreeable than the one used last year. The shelving has been put up, the books arranged in good order, and every one seems well pleased with the Library.
—Hand-ball season is about over. Some of the persona engaged in a few contests during vacation showed very plainly that their early education in this regard was sadly neglected. Half the alley was not suffijient scope fortheir wild sweeps.
—Remember that the best boys get the best seats in the study halls. By keeping this in mind it will be possible that a student whose conduct in former years caused him to get a poor seat this, may get a better seat before many months elapse.
—The rooms of the Lemonnier Circulating Library are much more pleasant and agreeable than the one used last year. The shelving has been put up, the books are well arranged, in good order, and everyone seems well pleased with the Library.
—The Minims’ Study Hall has, we see, had a general renovation. What with new blackboards, newly grained desks and woodwork, tastefully arranged pictures, and the carpet of beautiful flowers outside the windows, the Minims* Study Hall has quite a cheerful appearance.
—The old Church has been nearly demolished. That part of it which was formerly occupied by the Choir, etc., will, however, be left standing for the next ten months. Work on the new Church will continue, and the frescoing will be finished by next September.
—The masons have been very busy for the past few weeks, building up and tearing down. Work at the old church, work at the new steam-house and work at the old steam-house make things look lively. The clinking of trowels and the cry of “Mort” is heard from morning until night.
—When reorganizing, Societies should not be too hasty in admitting members. Sometimes persons are admitted who do not afterwards take that interest in the affairs of
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the society which they ought. A little care in admitting members sometimes make a society one hundred per cent, better.
—We have been promised a very interesting account of the Art Department in the Chicago Exposition. The writer of the article is one fully competent to undertake the work, and we have no doubt but that it will be read with pleasure by all our readers. Our report will in nowise be inferior to any in the Chicago papers.
—Next week we will begin the publication of the Roll of Honor and of Class Honors. Parents and guardians will find these Honors published weekly, through the year, and hence the Scholastic is to them of more than ordinary interest. Besides, the knowledge that the Scholastic gives to parents is an incentive to students to improve.
—The newsteam-house is a fine building, good, large and commodious. It is built just back of the old steam-house, which will be torn down. The old house was too small to accommodate all the buildings around, and this necessitated the building of the new house. There will be ample accommodation in it for bathing, etc., and it will be a decided improvement.
—We hope that the Secretaries of the different societies will send in with promptness the reports of their meetings held throughout the year. We expect that in making these reports they will give briefly a statement of what took place and not give us their ideas as to the ability of the different members. The readers of the Scholastic simply wish to know what was done at the meetings, and nothing more.
—A fine assortment of philosophical instruments will arrive lure from France in the course of a few weeks. This assortment has been selected with great care by competent parties, and will be one of the finest in the West. We believe the cost will be some two thousand dollars We are glad that this assortment is coming, and with those now on hand the Laboratory will be in a much better condition than in former years.
—We made a pleasant call at Messrs. Jansen, McClurg & Go’s., one day last week. This firm is one of the largest in Chicago, and all persons interested in the book trade should imitate us and give them a call. They are sure to be well treated, and a simple look at the long shelves of books tells them that whatever they may want in the way of books may be found there. Besides, they will be able to make the very best of bargains.
—Prof. Howard complains that drivers from South Bend run over the sidewalk between the College and Sorinville, where be lives. It renders the walk very bad. The street commissioner has removed the stumps on that part of the road lying in the city limits, and he hopes that those on the road outside the limits will also be removed. It would be a great improvement, and then perhaps car-raiges would not be driven on the walks.
—The Mendelssohn Club reorganized one evening about the first part of the week. The officers are the same as last year, so that all who remember them know who will conduct the affairs of the Club this coming year. It is hoped that they will be able to add to their extensive repertoire and continue to give that agreeableness to their meetings which has ever been the distinguishing mark of the Club. We wish it unbounded success.
—On last Sunday evening a select party from South Bend visited the Observatory to see the man in the moon through the large telescope. They were unmistakably well phased, and (except the bashful young man on the stairway) expressed their admiration and astonishment in vociferous strains at the wonderful magnifying power of the instrument. One of the party, however, lost a French kalandre, the finder of which will confer a favor by giving it to Prof. Howard.
—Persons sending letters or any other mail-matter to Notre Dame or St. Alary’s should bear in mind that there is a regular post-office here; consequently all mail-matter for Notre Dame should be addressed simply “ Notre Dame, Indiana,” and all mail-matter for St. Mary’s should be addressed “St. Alary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana.” The observance of this will secure the safe transmission of
letters, etc., to these places, and prevent much annoyance arising from letters being missent.
—A good story is told of an applicant for a school over near L iporte. When before the examination board, ho was asked how he would journey from the place he was in to St. Petersburg. “Well,” he answered, “I would hitch up the horse and drive down to Laporte and put up at the Teagarden House. Then I would go down to the depot and buy a tnrough ticket to New York. I would put up at the Astor,—no, I would put up at the Fifth Avenue hotel. Then I would take a ’bus down to the landing, and then—well, let me see—then I—I would enquire the way ! ”
—The beautiful gilded door in the new Church was v' brought from Rome. It was formerly in the house which belonged to St. Bridget of Sweden, and through it she and her daughter were accustomed to hear Mass. The house came into the possession of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and the Superiors, fearing that it might be confiscated by the Italian Government, brought this door to Notre Dame in order that the Community might continue in possession of it. So far the house of Santa Brigitta has escaped the cupidity of the Italian vandals, but there is no telling when they may lay their hands on it.
—The following from the Chicago Evening Journal speaks well for Air. James B. Runnion, of the Chicago Tribune, a graduate of the University in 1860:
Another bold and successful step has been taken to make Chicago a truly metropolitan city, sufficient unto itself and able to supply the wants of others. This advande was made in dra. matic literature, and consiced in the representation of a homemade play on the stage of the New Chicago Theatre. Even more thanthis, we are happy to state, may be said of the play: it was well received on acccount of its own merits. Many have with a measure of justice, complained of Chicago’s backwardness in this line of literature, and therefore it is that this rounding out of our powers, hailed with delight, and with high hopes of future progress, and independence of foreign plagiarists.
The play of “ Hearts and Diamonds ” was a farce abounding in fine wit., light satire, and funny climaxes. Its real strength lies in its, vivacity, which was keenly appreciated by the audience. The play in its three acts is so entertaining in dialogue that the author may feel confident of success. The play is from the facile pen of Air. James B. .Runnion, of the Tribune.. All our citizens, as well as the dramatic profession, should thank Air. Runnion for this first play, which indicates that we may expect something still better from him.

—The beautiful redbird presented by Miss Keeline now ornaments St. Luke’s Studio.
—Classes commenced on the 6th. The routine of academic life leaves no spare time for homesickness.
—The arrival of pupils from California, New York, Nevada, and New Orleans proves that St. Alary’s has a wide spread reputation.
—The wax flowers attract much attention. Alore than twenty different designs in wax are being executed in the wax-flower department.
—The aquarium in the reception-room is now tenantless, the little gold fishes having, it is said, drowned themselves. Who will bring a new supply of wiser fishes?
—The demand for more room in the Academy has made it necessary to appropriate the building known as the “ Guests’ House ” to the use of the permanent residents at St. Alary’s.
—Alother M. Angela Superior, left last Saturday for Ger many, to bring to St. Alary’s some young ladies who have vocations to be religious teachers. Her return in November will be most joyfully welcomed.
—As usual, Chicago sends the largest number of pupils; for St. Alary’s is such a convenient distance from that great commercial centre that the Chicagaens seem disposed to annex the Institution as their portion of Indiana.


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
29
—The old pupils return with bright, cheerful faces. Nearly every old pupil brings a new one with her. The greetings and introductions give evidence of kind reminiscences of past years and pleasant anticipations for the future.
—St. Luke’s Studio looks very artistical. Our young artists intend to compete earnestly with each other for the highest honors. That Graduating Medal will excite a noble emulation among them. New chairs and desks have been ordered for the Seniors’ study hall.
—The wreath of immortdle which was presented by the pupils to ornament the remains of Miss Fanny Trainor, of South Bend, who was so well known and esteemed at St. Mary’s, has been sent to the Art Department to be preserved. The deepest sympathy is felt for the bereaved family.
—The visits of old friends are occasions of much satisfaction. The venerable Mrs. Byerly and Mrs. Coquillard called yesterday, both delighted to meet Mrs. M. M. Phelan and Sirs. Redman. These loved matronshave seen the very beginning of St. Mary’s, and now rejoice to witness a prosperity which they have done much to promote.
The First Feast Day in Heaven.
FEAST OF ST. AUGUSTINE, AUG. 28, 1875.
St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo, was the Patron in baptism of Rev. Father A. Lemonnier, C. S. C., who died Oct. 29th, 1874, and also the Patron in religion of Rev. Father N. H. Gillespie, 0. S. C., who died just two weeks later, Nov. 12th, 1874. Side by side they now sleep, their graves embalmed by the tears and loving devotion of many a faithful heart.
The dawn of this Festival tells
Of memories all sacred and rare,
While their graves, like two hermitage cells,	.
Draw ever to musing, to prayer,
These blossoms as white as the snow, These garlands as fresh as our love, For the cherished ones resting below, We are wreathing and twining above;
Our tears half of sorrow, half joy, meekly fall. As the present we ponder, the past we recall.
In the clime of the real, the true,
They are holding their banquet to-day, The “Beauty e’er ancient, e’er new,” •
Has scattered all darkness away.
The “ Fount of the waters of Life,”	■
They quaff, there to drink evermore,	’
The doubting, the turmoil, the strife,
Die out on Time’s dim distant shore.
Saint Augustine, thy clients bow low at thy feet, Their Sandus, with thee, and the angels, repeat.
Our prayer with the breath of the flowers, Ascends, and we know as we kneel,
That the hearts of those loved ones of ours
Have garnered our earnest appeal;
And whether abroad on the sea,	'
Or fighting our way on the plain,
They are urging our cause and our plea, We know that their love will obtain.
Our tears are all joy, and they meekly o’erflow, When we think of their bliss since just one year ago.
—There are two thousand seven hundred and fifty languages.
—Salvini, on his return at Florence, told an interviewer that he would rather be a sculptor than an actor, as the latter leaves nothing behind at death, while the sculptor chisels his name on a few’ unfading stones. Hence he will not make an actor of his son. The Salvinis have ever been noted, as a family, for their ambition, and for entertaining a lively feeling of animosity toward the family of Rossis, of which Enersto is the head.—Watson’s Art Journal.
—Rubinstein gave his first piano concert at Moscow when he was nine years old: Liszt appeared as a pianist when nine, before a company of noblemen, who subsequently paid the expenses of his education; Gounod took . the grand prize for musical composition awarded by the French Institute when twenty-one; Wagner composed four operas when twenty, and his “ Rienzi ” was brought out in Paris when he was twenty-four; Verdi became organist in the old Church of Busseto when seventeen, and his first opera was put on the stage of La Scala, Milan, when he was twenty-five; Offenbach became leader of the band at the Theatre Franqais when twenty-six, and composed his first opera at that age; and Theodore Thomas began playing on the violin in public when only six.
—As every bit of personal gossip referring to the author of “ Middlemarch” is interesting, we copy the following paragraph from a private letter addressed by an American lady to a friend in New York. It is but just to remark that the portrait it contains of the great novelist was sk tched after a very slight opportunity for study of her characteristics. “I lunched with the T.’s the other day, and amongst their guests was George Eliot, or rather Mrs. Lewes.. She is by no means handsome or agreeable. She looks like the picture of Lorenzo de Medicci, with very large, thin fea- -tures, and possessing penetrating eyes. She dresses plainly, but well, neither in nor. out of the fashion. Her manner is not at all pleasing; it is abrupt and harsh; and, indeed I was altogether so little agreeably impresse dby her, that admiring her works as I do, I took quite a dislike to her and was sorry I ever met her. The disillusion was too great.—Chicago Tribune.
—The Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican, in alluding to the admirable manner in which the Monthly Bulletin of the Boston Public Library—“the argest of American Libraries ’’—is annotated, recom-Imends the form of cataloguing to other institutions of the kind, and contributes an interesting note by calling attention to the first edition, he believes, of the Latin poems of Mathew Casimir Sarbrewski, a Polish Jesuit, contemporary with Milton, and of whom Coleridge, who translated one of his odes, says: “If we except Lucretius and Statius, I know no Latin poet, ancient or modern, who has equalled Casimir in boldness of conception.” The edition before me was printed in detestably small type, at. Antwerp in 1634, and is dedicated to the learned Pope, Urban VIII, who had patronized Casimir. It is a little book of 236 pages, bearing the imprimatur of the Society of Jesus in Lithuania, 1631, and of Philip IV of Spain, who gives Balthasar Moretus the copyright, 1632, for a per iod of seven years. The poems are strongly Horatian in form, though treating of Christian subjects, and are chiefly odes and epigrams. The writer thinks the poems do not deserve the high praise of Coleridge any more than V incent Bourne’s poems, a century later, deserved Cowper’s praise, who thought Bourne “a better Latin poet than Tibullus, Propertius, Ausonius, or any of the writers in his way, except Ovid, and not at all inferior to him.” Dr. Watts also thought highly of Casimir, and translated (in his Hone Lyricse) several of the poems, or, rather, paraphrased them, for the translation is not very close. Of the “ G. Hills,” who, according to Coleridge, translated the whole of Casimir into English, the writer can learn nothing, and thinks it probably is meant for Aaron Hill. -
McDonald,
THE EHOTOGHAFHEH,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
30
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
TILE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with ntw, first-class fnrniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts ot home during their stay.
’ JERRY KNIGHT, I
CAPTAIN MILLS, f Proprietors.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, END I ANT A.
PATRICK SETICTUETT,
PROPRIETOR OF THE	.
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE!
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
.Attached to the National Hotel, andAd-jaeent to t lie Lake Shore and Nliclily,’un Southern Depot.
Now. that telegraplrc communication has been made between Notre Dame and mv office, through the Michigan Southern Depot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time Io meet all trains.
For my attention to the pa'rons of No’re Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, by permission, to the Supetiors of both Institutions.
P. SHICKEY.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
'	IHrdDIALTTA-
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modem improvements, affords accommodation to five hundsed Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee................................... §5	00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek
included), Washing aud Meneing of Linens, per session of five months •....................... 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Hebrew, each... 10	00
Instrumental Music.................................. 12	50
Use of Piano........................................ 10	00
Use of Violin......................................   2	50
Telegraphy.......................................... 10	00
( General Class Principles.......... 10	00
Vocal Lessons, j Vocai Culture........ ............. 15	00
Elocution—Special Course............................. -	5 00
Use of Library (per session)......................... 1	00
Drawing............................................. 15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus........ 5	00
( Classical Course.................. 10	00
Graduation Fee,-< Scientific Course................. 10	00
( Commercial Course.................. 5	00
Students who spend their vacation at the University
are charged extra............................... 40	00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.
CANDYI CANDY! CANDYI
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
LOO Van Buren St., CHICAGO, ILL. Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy..................................15c
Fine Mixed Candy..............................  25c
Choice Mixed Candy...........................'35c
Caramels.....1................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy......................25c
Proportionately Low Prices to NVliolc-sale Cash Buyers.
M. Livingston & Go.,
A.IRZE THE	-
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
They Have the Best Cutter in the City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Cloths, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is the largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles. Satis action guaranteed on all goods.
REMEMBEB THE PLACE,
94 MICHIGAN St, SOUTH BEND, IND.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
31

Pittsburgh, Fort Wayns & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA B. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TINTJE T-AJBIAE.
FEBRUARY, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North, and Southwest.
O Trains with Through Cars to	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night Ex. Ex Sa & Su
° NEW YORK.			
Lv. CHICAGO		9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	5 20 a.m.
“ Lima		4 35 “	1 25 a.m.	S 00 “
“ Forest		5 34 “	3 01 “	9 17 “
“ Crestline		7 00 “	4 40 “	11 10 “
“ Mansfield		7 50 “	5 20 “	11 50 “
“ Orrville	'		9 42 “	7 12 “	1 46 p.m.
“ Massillon		10 15 “	7 45 «	2 19 “
“ Canton 		10 33 “	8 00 “	2 38 “
“ Alliance		11 15 “	8 40 “	3 20 “
“ Rochester		1 18 a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
“ Pittsburgh			2 20 “	12 15 p m.	7 05 “
Lv. Pittsburgh	 Ar. Cresson....		3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
“ Altoona		7 30 “	5 55 “	12 10 a.m.
; “ Harrisburg		12 05 p.m.	11 05 “	4 13 “
“ Baltimore		6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
“ Washington		9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
“ Philadelphia		4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
“ New York		7 35 “	6 50 “	1115 “
“ New Haven		11 10 “	10 49 “	3 36 p.m.
“ Hartford		12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	5 55 “
“ Springfield		1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
“ Providence		4 25 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
“ Boston		5 50 “	4 50 “	9 05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LIKE
LAKE SHORE AND. MICHIGAN SOUTHERN bailway.. '	. \
On and after Sunday, May 23,1875, trains will leave South. Bend a3 follows:'
GOING EAST.
3 35 a m.. Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 10 30: Cleveland3pm; Buffalo 9 15.
IO 39 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35pm; Cleveland 10 15.	„
12 57 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 £0; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 05 am.	-
9 IO pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 15; Buffalo. 1 lOp n .
7 53 pm, Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,2 30;
Cleveland 10 55 a m.. Buffalo 7 pm.	■
4 pm, Local Freight.	•
’	GOING WEST.
3 am. Express. Arrives at Laporte 4 15 p m, Chicago 6 30 a m. 4 53 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45; Chicago 8 20 a m.
3 pm. Evening Express. Arrives at Lapcrte 3 55; Chicago 6 30.
4 50 pm, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45; Chicago. 8 20.	■
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago 11 30 a. m.	“
8 25 a m,Local Freight. J. W. CARY. GenT Ticket Agt., Cleveland. CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt-
Chicago, Rock Island, and Eacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in.Kansas and Southern Missouri. Thia is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Bnren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express„10 15 a.m. 4 CO p.m.
Peru accommodation...................... 5 00pm.	9 30 a.m.
Night Express...........................10 00 pan.	6 15 aan.
M. SMITH, Gen’l Pass. Agent.
H. RIDDLE, -
General Superintendent,
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Caks from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. K7EBS, G. P. & I. A.
MICHIGAN CENTRAL R. R.
Time Table-July 18, 1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	JNight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 		5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 12 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 n.m 11 01 “ 12 15 p.m 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 30 “ 7 00 a.m 10 15 “	5 15 p m 7 43 “ 8 53 “ 12 47 a m 3 50 “	9 00 p.m 11 15 “ 12 45 “ 4 55 8 00 “
“ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit						
Lv. Detroit......	7 00 a.m 10 37 “ 3 40 p,m 5 15 “ 7 35 •*	9 50 a m 12 30 p.m 4 19 “ 5 45 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30 *•	9 50 “ 12 45 a.m 4 30 “ 5 45 “ 8 00 »
■ “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago						
Wiles and Sontlx Bend Ui vision.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 00 a.m.	6 30	p.m.	§9 06	a.m.
“ Notre Dame—8 07 “	6	38	“	9 07	“
Ar. Niles— 8 45 “	7	10	“	9 40	“
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6	33	a.m.	5 10	p.m.	§8 00	a.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	' 5 46 “	8 32 “■
Ar. South Bend--7 15 “	5 55 “	8 10 •*
§5 00 p.m 5 32 “ 5 40 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. gSunday only.
H. B. Ledyard,	Wm. B. Strong,
Ass't GenT Sup’t, Detroit.	GenT Sup’t, Chicago.
Henby C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
. B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame
Have you any thought of going to California! Are you going West, North, or Northwest? Yon want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its mapsand time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.	■
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SJLKT ZFZRJYZN’CTSCO,
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Blufis. Yankton. Sioux City, Dubuque,—Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Green Bay. Oshkosh,Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago. -.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your rickets by this route, and will takeno other.
This popular reave is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, well-b° lasted and perfect track of steel rails. Westinghouse air brakes, Miller’s safety platform and couplers, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, aud Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway traveling.
PULLMAN PALACE CALKS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago andSt. Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad-for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hugbitt,	W. H. Stennett,
. General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent

32
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^raud Kintal MctdL
SOUTH BEND, IND. NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS. HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
MEYER LTUUinSTG-STOTT, 60 NVasliipgton St., Uiibb Boors West of Blum’s Cigar store,	south BEND, IND,
jSg~Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps. Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods All the Students should give him a call.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
BOOKS & STATIONERY,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
CHICAGO, ILLIUSTOIS.
CL TZ. SHEEHEPv, Hats, Caps and Furs, TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’‘Furnishing Goods, Eto., IIO Michigan Street,
SOUTH: EHDSTID, TTTJD.
LUCIUS G. TONG,
.A.TTOZEdlSrEM'-.A.T-L^
AND NOTARY PUBLIC,
Io. 9 Md reflows’ Block, south bend, Indiana.
SAMUEL ENGEL,
THE CLOTHIER,
Invites your attention to his Merchant Tailoring Establishment, No. 90 Nlicliigan Street, SOUTH BEND, TTsTTDT^ATTJL.
Only First Class Work Made Up
At Reasonable Prices.
If Desired, Will Bring Samples and
Take Measures at the University.,
L. E. MAYR
KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS AXD JEWELRY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENGRAVING A SPECIALTY.
Repairing Done in the Most Skillful Manner. --------------
69 WASHINGTON, St.,
SOT7TTT EEMID-
BUZBY & GALLAGHER, MERCHANT TAILORS Clothiers and Dealers in
Gants’ Furnishing Goods, Hats, Caps, etc., 109 Micliigan St., SOUTH ZBZEDSTZD, USTZDT-A^T-A..
St, Mat^p ^cadem^*
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED B¥ THE SISTERS OF ROLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks	i
of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a lo-	'
cality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.	<
Particular attention is paid to the’religious instruction of Catho-	r
lie pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the	?
sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with	'i
the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educa-	}
tional requirements of the day, and furnished with all modern im-	»
provements Every portion of the building is heated by steam,	i
and hot and, cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.	j
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated	I
in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful de-	f
velopment of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great con-	■
venience to parents having children at both, when they visit their	?
sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are	'	1
referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue	of St. Mary’s Academy	L-
for the year 1874-75, or address	=<
St. Mary’s	Academy,	?
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Muimd Jfw,
A. McKay, Prop., NILES, LLTOELTG-JkUr. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House The Students’ Office^ TDHTTH-’H BLUM, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc. No. 54 AViisliington St., SOT7TTL	IUTZD.
