5otre Dame Scholastic.
Dlsce quasi semper victurus « vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 27, 1880. Number 11.
Our Staff.
G. E. Clarke, '81.
G. F. Sugg, ’81.
T. F. Clarke, ’83.
W. B. McGorrisk, '82.
F. W. Bloom, ’81.
H. C. Simms, ’83.
J. P. Hagan, ’81.
R. E. Fleming, ’83.
F. H. Greyer, ’83.
Tbe red leaf burns in the autumn wood, Ay, brightly it burns away ;
■ It is crimsoned o’er with its own life-blood, Its flame shall last but a day.
• For soon shall the leaf fall sere and pale, No hue on its shrivelled breast;
But a Power has marked in wood or vale
A spot for its final rest.
. And thus shall this burning life of mine Soon sink to the embers low ;
But safe in the trust of Love Divine, Drift whither—I may not know.
—George B. Ultffin.
a
The Nation’s Benefactors.
BY GEO. E. CLARKE.
Every age and every clime presents a solid phalanx of mighty intellects; and the world re-echoes with the glory of its consequent achievements. From far hack in the dim twilight of antiquity up to our own day when we raise our hands and hearts in gratitude for the prosperity that cheers our pathway, the deeds of our honored predecessors become more and more the object of universal admiration.
It is true that when perusing the lives of those high-souled men, whose whole minds were devoted to the upholding of the just cause of popular rights, and whose actions were fruitful in grand results, we feel ourselves warmed into a glowing heat of emulation, and are fired with a lofty ambition. Their deeds and sentiments thrill us with patriotic emotions, and fill us with zeal to perpetuate the bless* ings that they left us. Their examples inspire us with a love of that excellence whose direct aim is the perfection of true manhood. But many of those learned lawyers, those eloquent advocates, and those upright judges, have gone, and bequeathed to us the dread responsibilities of life. We seem callous to the results of their mighty
efforts, and frequently fail to resent the bitter invective^ hurled indiscriminately at men who have labored for their fellow-man in the cause of justice and order—the cause of God. Candidly, we admit that the profession has been tainted with, the unworthy. But has not all created nature been at times likewise tarnished? The blessings of religion and good government in the hands of the unprincipled have often become a' curse. The chemist declares it impossible to obtain a perfect vacuum; historians prove that it is impossible to be impartial; and, in like manner, is it impossible always to bar the door of a profession against iniquitous men. In all positions, stations, and ranks of society corruption is found. It was found among the very Apostles. The sun, whose power is indispensably necessary for the preservation of this globe and its contents, could be used to work injury; therefore, men, whose ignorance and unrighteousness dishonor a profession, should never be viewed as the exponents of that profession. To call Americans traitors because Benedict Arnold was one, would be absurd. To assert in your premises that some of the legal fraternity are dishonorable, and deduce tbe conclusion that all of the legal fraternity are the same, would be illogical. Painfully, we admit that the public press teems with disgraceful tales of peculation and fraud—too. tre-quenlly the work of the professional .man; yet is it not owing to the untiring efforts of the conscientious lawyer that the offender is branded as a criminal? The varied accomplishments and manifold duties of the lawyer render him justly deserving of the honor he receives from his fellowmen. He is the custodian of the laws which govern not only an individual but a whole people. His mind is not closed to every subject but one; it must be stored with the cleare and most varied knowledge not only of things but of men; he must possess a judgment, well balanced, and a will of indomitable firmness; his work is not in the secret chamber, but open and above board—if not in the courts of justice, in the halls of legislation; his science is the perfection of reason.
To the skill of a navigator, the influence of a queen, and the services of a monk, this unbroken forest was added to our geographical knowledge. But is 1492 to be compared with 1776, when the Declaration of Independence was adopted and signed ? When haughty England was forced to bend her neck; when the guantlet of defiance was shaken in her face, and she was challenged to mortal combat, the world beheld one of the boldest acts on history’s pages, one deserving to be emblazoned in characters that can never be effaced. And who furnished the brain power for this production ? Was it not the able lawyers Jefferson and Adams ? Who was the first to fearlessly give vent to freedom’s long pent-up sentiments, thus throwing that firebrand which fired a nation, which culminated in the revo
162
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lution? Was it not the gallant Otis? Read the names of our presidents, a list of rulers whose administrative ability is yet unequalled—are not the majority.of them lawyers? Our ranks are swelled with ambitious men, and certainly some have deserved the imputation; yet was it not a Jefferson who said: “ I had rather he shut up in a cottage with my books, my friends, and my family, dining on simple bacon, than to occupy the most splendid position any human power can quote.” And right here, I say, let us offer thanks that that man of insatiable greediness, that man who is now airing himself that he may be clothed with the purple garment iu 1884 (?), who sits placidly by and listens to his tavored parson lie about a religion whose m< mbers opened up to us this continent, and have ever identified themselves with Columbia’s, interests—I repeat, on bended knee, and with upturned face, thank God that this individual has never tainted the legal profession.
Among our patriots, our representatives and our cabinet officers, the legal fraternity is almost exclusively represented. The grand ol j< ci of our civil government is the security of the rights of persons and the rights of things; the preservation of personal security, and the defence of personal liberty and private property—liberties, as L' stone says, more generally talked of than thoroughly understood. It is for this reason that our courts have been established. And who are to preside at those tribunals ? Can any but those who know the-law—judges, whose previous course of study makes them lawyers? Have we not a just pride in the ability and integrity of Marshall, Story, and Taney? Legal lore has been adorned by the name of Kent. Many of our States have been prolific in great legal talent—clear and vigorous intellect, whose ’ force seemed proof against decay. Our judicial decisions are authoritative abroad, and our reports can be found in the law libraries of Europe. To that august tribunal, the supreme court of the United States, we can attribute our stability at home and our reputation abroad. It stretches forth its mighty hand to the oppressed, and fails not to curb the pretensions of S:at< s when they dare transcend their authority. It wears not a collar of gold, the insignia of justice in past ages, but is backed by the letter of the law, shining forth in judgments and precedents—the productions of names now immortal. Its members have expressed their loyalty in deeds, not in words. No halo of military glory surrounds their names. They won because they were true to principle. They have unceasingly venerated the equality of men. The political writers of antiquity named only three forms of government; but the monarchial and aristocratic they tossed to the wind, and reared the standard of the democracy. The three grand requisites—wisdom, goodness, and strength—they have steadily kept in view. Not with the sounding bugle and tinkling cymbals have they paraded their sentiments; no 1 they were too elevated and ardent. Their patriotism is placid, but majestic; and with calmness, self-possession, and uncompromising weapons have they defended the na‘ ti> n’s altars. Theirs is not a battle of shot and shell, but a battle of the brain! Their boldness and manliness challenge the world; and when their fellow-citizens were in danger, the untutored, as well as cultured, gathered around them, preferring the legal adviser to the soldier.
Such is the record of the profession which furnishes the basis upon- which our national structures can alone safely rest It is replete with reminiscences of the great, and is filled with proud memories of the historic past. Its plumed
knights, with deep and logical minds, yield honor and ability to no one. From the quiet paths of private life, they were called to that lofty theatre where judgment sits enthroned. Ever embodying purity and patriotism, unin-! fluenced by false eloquence and artful sophisms, they elicit our confidence, and convince us that this glorious republic, guided by the skilful hands and clear heads of the legal profession, will attain that high position f>r which Providence has destined her.
Rings.
R ncs have always been popular; there never was a time when they wi-re more so than they are n<>w, except it was during Grant’s second term.
Tiiis subject ought to be popular and entertaining, for it has no end. Like a bore iu a newspaper < ffi v, it is always’ round. The manufacture of rings is by no means a modern invention: it dates back t > the origin of ihe universe. The “ nebular hypothesis ” is bised upon a series of rings; so is the Ptolemaic theory; so is the administration at Washington. An article which has such a lineage ought to be regarded with reverence, and rings usually are—by the ladies. They “adore ” them—if we may judge by their language. The betrothal ring, by an easy and natural transition, engages our attention. The solitaire diamond is par excellence, and, by common consent, the only proper ring for this purpose, because it stands next above the kipg and queen in a sequence. The'custom of bestowing them had its origin among the Hebrews many years ago. They are likewise credited with inventing clothing and original sin; but they deserve no credit for the latter. As a race, they are not fond of credit, so I suppose the matter is unimportant. The Greeks borrowed this custom from the Hebrews, and the Romans stole it from the Greeks, along with many other elaborate contrivances. The origin of the custom being veiled in obscurity was regarded as pagan superstition for many years, but was finally adopted by the Christians about the middle of the ninth century. Like most new fashions, it became very popular. Diamonds were not so well known then as now, but rubies, emeralds, and sapphires were in prime favor. The lapidaries were all supposed to be alchemists in those davs; now they are chiefly scientific swindlers, so it will be observed their habits have not changed materially. The trade in solitaire diamonds has assumed such fabulous proportions since “rings” offered easy and rapid roads to wealth and ostentatious, vulgar display in our great Republic (with aristocratic tendencies) that all the diamond fields yet “ invented ” are powerless to supply the market, and the lapidary is compelled to do, what many better men are constantly doing, counterfeit the real ar icle. Every steamer from the Old World brings miniature cargoes of cunningly fabricated diamonds. Not the kind Prof. McNeal invented, but a very worthless article indeed. In diamond cutting, it is well known that portions of tne valuable product are chipped off and supposed to be thrown away. Science and mendacity have contrived to secure a better use for those fragments. They are pasted together with the diamond part on the outside, and find a ready market in New York. Of course, the experts know they are not real, for 4he blow-pine readily melts the paste and the pieces fall apart; but they are beautiful counterfeits, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
163
are sold every day for “ simon pure.” Few good solitaires ever come to America, and the deluded purchasers who parade their finery are usually advertising their ignorance and “gullibility.” They pay prices which leave dazzling profits to the manufacturer and the importer, but the diamonds, when thrown upon the market by fluctuations of the financial wave, rarely bring one tithe of first cost. So much for the advance made by science. Nearly all the precious stones are used in rings, and many have attributed to them certain properties of which they are emblems. The diamond is an emblem of faith, and quite properly too, lor it requires all the faith a man possesses to make him pay the prices asked by speculative dealers; faith is the evidence ot things unseen, and he is certain never to see his money back after investing in one.
Wedding rings should always be plain, unostentatious, pure gold. This rule is not always followed; wedding rings are frequently made wi.h sets of ruby, which enchains affection; of emeralds, which insures true, unfaltering love; with sapphire, which protects from evil enchantment; with onjx, which insures felicity; with topaz, which denotes fiiMPy; and with turquoise, which in-dica es prosperity, purity, and exilted love. The pearl has always been an emblem of purity, and is highly prized; while the moonstone, cat’s-eye, garnet, amethyst, sardonyx, bloodstone, agate and quartz crystal find many admirers. The opal, which properly denotes hope and intensified faith, has long been regarded as unlucky, and few brides are courageous enough to wear it.
In many countries the ring forms an essential part of the marriage ceremony, just as necessary as it is to-day to the success of a politician. The betrothal ring was allotted to the fourth finger at first, because the Greeks and Egyptians believed a certain nerve connected this finger directly with the heart. Hence the Latin annulus is the scientific name of that finger. The Pope wears a ring as the sign of his marriage with the Church of Christ; and likewise, for the same purpose, all the Cardinals, Archbishops and Bishops wear fine seal rings. Among the early no bility a seal ring with the coat-of arms of the family was worn by the head of the house, and with it he certified all his public papers. Few noblemen in that age could write, and thus a characteristic seal ring became a matter of vast importance—even necessary to the conduct of their business. Sensible people do not believe in the magic of rings, but there are plenty of educated men and women who could not be induced to wear a ring that has been pronounced unlucky.
T A. Dailey.
American History.
The value of making the study of history a part of our education is so evident that a mention of its importance would seem unnecessary. The knowledge of the young is based on fact rather than on principle, and, consequently, their conversations always tend to the historical form of narration. The custom and effort to preserve the memory of the high and worthy deeds of the past are universal; and in all ages, and among the rudest and most savage nations, we find some kind of a record, or history of their nation’s life; while the memory of the lives and deeds of their great countrymen and benefactors is carefully preserved and fostered. The study of the history of most an
cient, and even modern countries, fills the mind of the student with sentiments similar to those which a traveller experiences on viewing, for the first time, the ruins of some ancient castle or cathedral. He is struck with awe, for the time being, by the grandeur and magnificence of their scenery, and by the recollection of the many legionary and romantic tales connected with them in their early times. On all sides of him he beholds the tombs of the great and mighty dead embellished with all the artistic perfection of ancient art and labor.
We likewise find in the study of the history of these ancient countries the record of wars and conquests, the deeds of those princes and rulers who were rem irkable only for their vices, and at whose death no tears were shed; whose memories survived but a short time in the affections of their subjects. But Americans have a history for which they have no cause to blush. Although we cannot boast of an age of chivalry, or date our history back to comparatively unknown ages; while we cannot look back to the pageants of noble princes or high-born ladies, we look back with pride upon the benefactors of our country, and respect and honor their memory. Our history has been most appropriately compared to the Pantheon of Rome: “It stands in calm and severe beauty amid the ruins of ancient magn ficence. Within, no idle ornaments encumber its simplicity. As the eye wanders about, it beholds the unadorned monuments of the great and noble dead, who have fought and died for their country’s cause.
“Patriots are here in freedom’s battle slain;
Priests, whose long lives were closed without a stain; Bards worthy of him who breathed the poet’s mind; Founders of arts, that dignify mankind;
And lovers of our race whose labors gave
Their names a memory that defies the grave.”
In the history of our country we read of no unjust wars on the part of America; but in her two principal ones, the Revolution and Rebellion, we see her fighting for a just and praiseworthy cause. In the former, we see her struggling for her rights and liberty, and, after a manly and unequal struggle, freeing herself from the iron grasp of one of the most powerful and strongest nations of the earth. In the latter, although a rebellion of her own noble race, we see her endeavoring to drive the barbarous evil of slavery from her shores, and, after a mighty struggle, succeeding. On the pages of our history we fi.id the names of such men as Washington, La Fayette, Franklin, Webster, Lincoln, and scores of others, who are remembered only to be respected and honored. We see Washington leaving a cheerful home, around which were concentrated all the pleasures and joys of domestic life, to endure the hardships of war; and with but a handful of men, and these poorly clad and armed, we behold him conquer mighty England. Did he do all this through any selfish motive, or through ambition? N>! on the contrary, he sacrificed all for thg sake of his country and its independence. We also see America, after a lapse of but a century, occupying a prominent place among the greatest and most powerful nations on the globe. Her ministers are to be found in every country, her vessels on every sea. She has succeetded in giving to the world, the telegraphic and cable, by means of which we are enabled to know to-day what occurred yesterday in the most remote corners of the earth. To her, also, we are indebted for the steam-engine, steamboat, and many other important and useful discoveries and inventions; she leads
164
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the world in many of the branches of literature and science. As I mentioned above, we have no reason to blush for the history of our country, for in it are found only the names of heroes and patriots. Its vast extent has become the asylum of persecuted sects and nations, and is blessed by their prayers and benediction. May they continue to pour forth their prayers for its welfare; and may it, with God’s help, continue to prosper in the future as it has done in the past.	T. F. Clarke.
Politeness and True Refinement.
Study with care politeness that must teach The modish forms of gesture and of speech: In vain, formality with matron mien And pertness apes with her familiar grin, They against nature for applauses strain; Distort themselves, and give all others pain, She moves with ease, though with measured pace, And shows no part of study, but the grace.
Those who look upon courtesy merely as forms established by fashion, which must be observed, or we are banished from her glittering ranks, make a great mistake. It is not the demands of society upon us; it is not the bonds of custom merely; it is that ease of person and grace, ful-’ ness of manner, which tend to place all with whom we come in contact immediately at ease; it is' the care and forethought necessary to note and supply each and every want, which will tend either to the comfort or happiness of others. Indeed, Lord Macauley defended it well when he said; “ True politeness is benevolence in all things.”
Being placed in a democratic country, where all must meet and mingle more or less in the daily routine of life,' the corners, if left sharp and jagged, will make many a bruise as we pass along, and many a scar will be left be-1 hind. These little wayside hinderances must all be rounded, smoothed, and polished, till we are assured that there will be no clashing.
We must learn to
“Hear everyman upon bis favorite theme, And ever be more knowing than we seem.”
Then will
“The lowest genius afford some light, Or give a hint, that has escaped our sight” And we will find
“That all are parts of one stupendous whole, Whose body nature is, and God the souL”
True politeness is innate, and proceeds from the heart. One who is truly good and noble cannot fail to possess this most charming of attributes—elegance of manners. If we have a desire to please those with whom we come in contact, we must acquire by our own labor and exertions an ease and grace of deportment, which will render our associates, and those about us, perfectly free and natural. Religion being the foundation of true refinement, it follows that those endowed with greatest virtue possess the most excellent qualities; for this reason, therefore, politeness is not confined to persons of wealth, distinction, and education. We find politeness among the lowly, arising from pure motives of charity; while that of the ruling monarch and noted subj ct is too often characterized by feelings of pride and self interest.
In ail places and at all times we should adapt ourselves to circumstances. By diligently applying this principle, we
often have the gratification of sparing persons from painful and embarrassing positions. In view of this, we find that certain codes of propriety are established in our various relations—social, political, and religious. Hence sacerdotal rites are respected; political principles are taken into consideration ; and even in warmly-contested debates the most punctilious decorum is established, and must be observed; otherwise, hewho infringes casts himself outside the pale of social sympathy. When in company with inferiors we should endeavor to make them feel as much at their ease as possible; we should be sociable and respectful, careful to avoid expressions touching in any way their circumstances. This is not only a requirement of politeness, but it is also a duty to God; for by “Doing unto others as we would have them do unto us ” we fulfil the law of brotherly love. To superiors in general great deference and attention should be paid; and in particular to those who exercise any authority over us, or who demand by nature our respect and reverence.
From nothing, perhaps, do more advantages accrue than from the art of pleasing; and no one who has ever made it a practice can be ignorant of this fact. One of the most immediate and most primary benefits we derive from it is the good will, friendship and love of those with whom we deal. It cannot fail to elicit admiration from all, and it throws a cheerful aspect and a bright character over the circle in which we move. By its influence many are drawn from a rude and disagreeable disposition to cultivate a polite and entertaining manner. It is very often a source of much happiness and content in the family circle; for, perhaps, when other circumstances tend to make a home gloomy and drear, the cheerful smile* willing heart, and refined bearing of only one might convert it into a little paradise of happiness. Politeness, as a crowning reward to its devotedness, wins for them a sweet and lasting remembrance; for even after death their names will be spoken with love and affection.
In what more noble occupation, then, can man be encaged than moulding his character and elevating his soul, so that every day he will be more like his one grand aim and end—God. For our souls were made to the image of God, butby sin were disfigured, and by the attacks of the enemy rendered every instant liable to more pollution. Let us strive, then, by cultivating virtue in our hearts, and manifesting it in our actions, to regain the original beauty of our souls; for politeness is but an outward sign of the virtues reigning in the heart, so that if we commence not at the heart the outward polish will be but superficial.
Oct.20th, 1880.
Robespierre.
The subject of this sketch, a French revolutionist, was born in the villiage of Arras, in the northern part of France in 1758 His parents, though not in very affluent circumstances, were, by hard labor and the strictest economy, enabled to place him in the college of Arras, thereby gratifying his most ambitious desire. Here, by his ambition, industry, and great perseverance, he in a very short time outshone all his class-mates; and his generous disposition and kind manners soon won for him their affections, as well as those of his teachers. His excellent standing, while at this college, was the means of gaining for him the favor of the Bishop, who, perceiving the excellent
THE NOTRE. DAME, SCHOLASTIC
165
abilities possessed by young Robespierre, sent him.to Paris in 1770 to continue his studies at the College of Louis le Grande. He had now attained the acme, of his desires. Here, as in his native village, he applied himself very, diligently to his studies during a space of eight years, and graduated at the age of twenty. He then commenced the study of law, on completing which .he returned, to his native city, where he was received with great joy. Here he so highly distinguished himself in his profession that he was soon elected a member of the criminal court of Arras; but his generous disposition would not permit him to continue long in this position. Being one day called upon to pass sentence of death on a prisoner whom the court had found guilty of some grave offence, he was so much affected at the thought of forcing a poor fellow-being to suffer an ignominious death that he refused to discharge the duties of his office, and immediately resigned. He was ever afterwards a most persistent advocate for the abolition of capital punishment. Lamartine describes, his figure as slight; limbs, feeble and angular; voice, shrill and monot* onous. His countenance, which was habitually severe, constantly wore a smile wavering between sarcasm and sweetness..
On June 19tb, 1789, the assembly of the states-general elected him one of its secretaries. ’Twas from this office that he received his only income, a very meagre one, but one by which he supported both himself and his sister, who was an invalid. This compelled him to practice the closest economy by occupying a retired and ill-furnished lodging* and being extremely frugal in matters relating to diet and raiment. It is related of him that he once entered the tribune dressed in a thread-bare and much-worn alpaca, coat, his only one. He continued in this office uptil after, the death of Mirabeau, when he rose to a more commanding position, which was better suited to his abilities; never failing to advocate the abolition of capital punishment, the admission of all citizens upon the juries,.their right to vote at all elections, and many other measures conducive to the welfare of the people.
In the spring of 1792, he commenced to publish a journal, entitled “ The Defence of the Constitution,” but it did not last long, closing with the 12th number. We next find him a member of the National Convention, being elected to rep. resent the city of Paris in that assembly., On Oct. 29th( 1792, Louvet falsely accused him before the Convention as aspiring to the dictatorship; but he triumphantly defended himself. A short time after this, he proposed the decree establishing the revolutionary tribunal clothed with ex. cutive powers above the Convention. He was not, however, made,a member of it until the following July.
Robespierre has been unjustly held up for crimes com. mitted by the tribunal at a time when he was not a member. His official signature is affixed to but few sentences of death, as he was always opposed to capital punishment Still there belongs to him no small share of infamy when we remember that be refrained from raising his voice, when it might have prevented the execution of innocent persons. For the last six weeks of his life, Robespierre had no voice in the Government. He was arrested July 27th, 1794, on his appearance in the Convention. The Commune immediately organized an insurrectionary faction, which rescued h m; but he would give no countenance to the riot-“The death of one man,” said he,“is less hurtful tn the re' public than ihe example of revolt against the National Convention.” The insurrectionists were soon overpowered,
and Robespierre again seized at the Hotel de ville. At this.time he is said to have been wounded in the face, by a shot from one.of the soldiers,—a circumstance which gave rise to the report that he had made an attempt on his own life; but this is very uncertain. The form of trial was quickly gone through with, and early in the evening o July 28,1794, the guillotine terminated Robespierre’s ex istence.	R. E. Fleming.
Art, Music and Literature.
; —Literary young man at party: “Miss Jones, have you seen Crabbe’s Tales? Young lady (scornfully): “ I was not aware that crabs had tails ” Literary young man (covered with confusion): “ I beg your pardon. I should have said, read Crabbe’s Tales.” Young lady (angrily scornful):-“ And I was not aware that red crabs had tails, either.” (Exit young man.)
—Henry Fitzsimon, an Irish Jesuit, distinguished for his polemics, wrote the following witty epigram, iu reference to the oaths in fashion in his day:
“ In elder times an ancient costume ’twas -To swear in weightie matters by the Masse. But when Masse was put down, as onld men note, They swore then by the crosse of this graye grote. And when the crosse was held likewise in scorne, Then faith and trouth for common oathes were sworne. But now men banisht have bolh'faith and trouth, 8q that God damne me is the common oath.
So custume keeps decorum, by gradation.
Loosing Masse, crosse, faith, trouth,—followeth damnation.” .
—The following is an extract from a recent work by Dr. C. Alberto, a celebrated Italian physician: “The marine air,” says the learned Doctor, “ produces the same benefit -as that of the mountains, but each has a different modus efficiendi; the former acts more forcibly and energetically on the constitution which retains some robustness and internal resources to profit by it, while the second acts more gently, with slower efficacy, being thereby more suitable to the weaker and less excitable organizations. From this important distinction, the conscientious physician, who takes the safety of his patient much to heart, ought to be able to discriminate whether the Alpine or marine atmosphere is the better suited to the case he has before him.”
—The Museum of Rouen, France, has purchased a manuscript in foglio, dating from the beginning of the sixteenth century, and forming part of the library of Cardinal d’Amboise. This manuscript, in a most perfect state of preservation, is a “Treatise on Canon Law,” written in Latin, and enriched with glosses extremely curious from their ornamental arrangement. The name of the author heads the text, Ego BarOidlomaus; he was an Italian, Bartholomew of Brescia. The title-page bears the armorial bearings and mntto of Cardinal George d’Amboise, appointed in 1494 Archbishop of Rouen by Alexander VI. He summoned from Italy the most skilful caligraphists of the time, who taught caligrahv and illuminating to an entire corporation of artists of Rouen, whom the Cardinal entertained, at great expense, in his library, one of the most celebrated of the age. This manuscript was evidently the work of one of that body
—John Gutenberg, who is usually considered the inventor of printing, printed at Menlz, or Mayence, in Hesse Darmstadt, an edition of the Bible in 1455. .This was the first work which issued from bis press, and whs printed eighty years before Luther’s Bible made its appearance, which was not published till 1534; moreover, Girenberg’s Bible had passed through five editions before 1534. An-oiher edition of the bible was published at Nun nberg, and was reprinted three times betore ihe date oi Luther’s edition. A bible printed at Augsburg had passed through two editions before the time ot Luther. All these bibles were edited by Catholics, printed by Catholics, and their publication was sanctioned by the Catholic Church in Germany, Luther’s own country, during the century pre
166
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ceding his time. How false then is the assertion, that the monk of Wittenberg was the first to give the bible to his own countrymen! In Spain the bible had been printed in 1478, before Protestantism was heard of; and four editions of the Sacred Scriptures had been published in France, one in Bohemia, and five in Belgium before 1334, the date of Luther’s translation. In Italy Malermi’s famous translation of the bihle was printed in seventeen different editions between 1471 and 1567. He was a Camal-dolese monk, and Audio says:—“ Malermi translated the Bible into the Italian language about the year 1421, and before the end of the 15th century his version was reprinted nine times, and nearly twenty times in the 16th century. In fact, there is hardly a language which has been at anytime spoken by Christians in which there is not yet extant some ancient version of the Sacred Scriptures. A whole compartment of the library at the British Museum is devoted to the reception of old vernacular versions of the Bible. A most noteworthy fact in connection with these versions is, that they are generally translated from the Latin Vulgate, which is universally admitted, even by Protestant divines, to be authentic; whereas' Luther, Calvin, Zuinglius, Beza, and Bucer, each assailed the translations published by the others, and censured them with the utmost asperity.”
Scientific Notes.
—Of late the electric light has been employed by naturalists to attract insects which they desire to collect for examination or to preserve as specimens.
—A Professor stated recently before the New York oyster commission that 6 000 000 oyster eggs may be stowed away in the space occupied by a watch spring.
—The announcement of the formation of ice during the hottest days of last summer in the caves near Zchiuval, in the Caucasus, attracted many travellers. It is reported that these caves are filled with ice only during the hottest weather, and that the newl formed ice disappears with the fall of the thermometer. This curious phenomenon greatly puzzles the Caucasians.
—Mr. Thomson, who has recently returned from the expedition of the R >yal Geographical Society to Central Africa, has brought to Kew a considerable collection of plants from the plateau round Lake Nyassa and Lake Tanganyika. The plants, from an elevation of 6,000 to 8.000 leet above the sea-level, contain a large proportion of Cape and characteristically temperate types.
—Mr. Charles Edot Norton announces, in the Harvard Register, that the number of answers to his appeal for volunteers for the expedition of the American Archaeological Institute lor the exploration of an ancient Greek city has been answered by a far greater number of applicants than are needed, and that out of their number five have been chosen. He now makes an appeal to college graduates to give their subscriptions and support to the Archaeological Institute itself-
—Professor Watson, formerly of Ann Arbor, but now of the Washburne Observatory, in the grounds of the State University at Madison, Wis., is building an observatory of a novel kind. It is generally known that from the bottom of a deep well the stars can be very plainly seen at bright noonday. Upon this principle Professor Watson is conducting his experiment A cellar, twenty feet in depth, has been sunk below the surface of the ground at the bottom of a slope; over this a fine stone building is erected. At the top of the hill, which is sixty feet above the bottom of the cellar, powerful reflectors are to be placed to throw rays of light down a large tube which ends in the cellar where the observatory will be stationed.
—Prof. Boyd Dawkins of the British Association has been investigating the condition and circumstances of the primeval man, as he calls him, though he does not show but that there may have been a man of some sort anterior to him. But this “ primeval man,” as he finds from remains of the tertiary periods, wore clothes of skins, and gloves,
and necklaces, and armlets, and pierced his ears for earrings. He sewed the skins together with bone needles and sketched figures of animals on bone. He bad some idea of sculpture also, but appears to have known nothing of metals, and had no domestic animals. Prof. Dawkins believes those men were allied to the Esquimaux, and he thinks there will be as much progress in the future as in the past, and that by-and-by men will be as much superior to the best men of 1880, as those of to-day are superior to the early hunters and cave men.
—If you place a few drops of strong tea upon a piece of iron,—a knife-blade, for instance—the tennate of iron is formed, which is black. If you mix tea with iron filings, or pulverized iron, you can make a fair article of ink. If you mix it with fresh human blood, it forms with the iron of the blood the tennate of iron. Take human skin and let it soak for a time in strong tea, and it will become leather. Now, when we remember that the liquids which enter the stomach are rapidly absorbed by the venous absorbents of the stomach, and enter into the circulation, and are thrown out of the system by the skin, lungs and kidneys, it is probable that a drink so common as tea, and so abundantly used, will have some effect. Can it be possible that tannin, introduced with so much liquid-producing respiration, will have no effect upon the skin ? Look at the teadrinkers of Russia, the Chinese, and the old women of America, who have so long continued the drinking of strong tea. Are they not dark-colored and leather-skinned ?
—Prof. Swift, Astronomer of the Warner Observatory, at Rochester, N. Y., discovered another large comet on the evening of October 10th. The fact was noted in the associated press dispatches, but some important and interesting details which could not be telegraphed are herewith given. The new celestial visitor is in the Constellation of Pegasus, right ascension, 21 hours, 30 minutes; declination north 17 degrees, 30 minutes. Its rate of motion is quite slow, being in a northwesterly direction and approaching the sun. It has a very strong condensation on one side of the centre, in addition to a starlike nucleus, which indicates that it is throwing off an extended tail. From the fact of its extraordinary size, we are warranted in presuming that it will be very brilliant, and the additional fact that it is coming almost directly towards the earth gives good promise that it will be one of the most remarkable comets of the present century. This is the fifth comet which Prof. Swift has discovered, and the increased facilities which Mr. H. H. Warner, the popular and wealthy medicine man, has given him, by erecting a magnificent observatory for his benefit, promise much more for the future. There is a possibility that further developments may prove this to be the great comet of 1812, which is being constantly expected, in which event astronomers will have an unusual opportunity to test the spectroscope for the first time upon these eccentric bodies, and ascertain certainly what they are.
Exchanges.
—The K. U. I. News of the 11th of November announced that it had secured the services of an exchange editor, who would introduce himself in the following number of the paper. But he didn’t show himself. Too timid, perhaps.
—The Albany Laio Journal is not too sedate to perpetrate a pun occasionally—that is, a legal pun; it does not take stock in illegal matters (puns included) of course. A recent number of the paper stated that at the Social Science Congress in Edinburgh “Mrs. Duncan McLaren protested against the custody of children being considered as a minor matter.” Pray, what is it, then? asks the Law Journal. Again, when announcing the fact that the London Law Journal advertises a “ Law Coach,’’ the Albany law man adds: “ We suppose this has something to do with conveyancing.” Who, after this, will attempt to blame us for perpetrating a pun occasionally, or say that we should be punished for doing so ?	.
. —The Penman's Art Journal for November contains facsimiles of the “Chinese Letter,” alleged to have been
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
167
written bv General Garfield, and that gentleman’s letter of Oct. the 23d. to Hon. Marshall Jewell, denying its authorship. The Art Journal devotes much space to a comparison of the two letters, and lends io the belief that General Garfield never wrote the Chinese letter which it was attempted to palm off upon him. Such testimony from D. T. Ames and B. F. Kelley, corroborating that of J<>s. E. Paine, ot New York, Albert S. Southworth, of Boston, and W. E. Hagan, of Troy, goes far in General Girfield’s favor, and all lovers of right and justice, irrespective of political faith, will be glad that strict justice, shall be ultimately meted to the parties concerned. The publication of the fac similes adds great interest to the November number of The Penman's Art Journal.
—We find many good t hings to admire in the Notre Dame Scholastic, but few we would criticise. Of all our pleasaut visitors, none contains more reading matter between its cover than the Scholastic. 'Wa would criticise only the type, paper, and general aspect of the paper, which is indeed of secondary importance.—The University.
We bow our thanks, not only for the compliment but for the gentlemanly manner in which our drawbacks are mentioned, and hope that before long our friends will be satisfied with intended changes in the latter respect. Our predecessors had these changes also in view; but, so far, no direct steps have been taken to carry them into effect.. We hope this will not long be the case, and that our beautiful college will soon be represented by a paper whose appearance will do it as much honor as the contributions of its students have in time past. We could wish all our contemporaries to give their criticisms on this matter with some of the gentlemanly courtesy shown by the exchange editor of The University. We would not then be under the disagreeable necessity of finding fault with coarse and ill-natured criticisms upon matters worth only secondary consideration.
—The editorial corps of The University, University of Michigan, have been rather late in reorganizing, but we are glad to see that the first number of the new volume is not a whit behind those of last year in evidence of first-class journalistic ability. We are, further, pleased to learn that it is the intention of the editors to preserve a close intents cordiale with those of their sister paper, The Chronicle, which for fourteen years has been published with remarkable ability and success by the Literary classes of the University. The Chronicle would do honor to any educational institution, and the students at the one whence it (emanates may well feel proud of it. So also in regard to The University, the organ of the Professional students— the Laws, Allopaths, Pharmics, Homeopaths md Dentals having each its representatives in the editorial corps or staff of the paper; it is first-class in every respect. The editors, in their salutatory, well remark, that “ as numerous smaller Eastern institutions support similar journals by almost the half dozen, and go to the extreme of college journalism in sustaining dailies, we think there is room for two such organs here without collision or clashing.” The following passage in the salutatory is also worthy of note: “The first, and all succeeding issues of our paper last year, contained no uncertain expressions of our support of the Gymnasium. So, now, we shall join hands with The Chronicle in furthering and increasing the permanent fund. We shall advance the project by every possible means, and propose to give our influence and surplus funds, not for this year only but till such time as the rather nebulous Gymnasium assumes a ‘ name and local habitation ’ among our choicest architectural gems. The lack of this institution is lamented by all, and its necessity remarked by none more than those who con* form colleges where gymnastic and calisthenic training has been practiced.” The students of Notre Dame have no little feeling in common with those of the Professional students at the University of Michigan, from the fact that our Medical course here being incomplete for the want of dissecting rooms, our medics have to finish their course at institutions possessing these, and generally do so at the University of Michigan, where we have been represented year after year. So we not only hope the labors and aspirations of the two editorial corps for a gymnasium will be soon crowned with success, but also that our students will imbibe some of their zeal and enterprise in furthering similar
purposes at our own Alma Mater. One of jthese is already being mooted, and we hope it will be pushed to a gratifying conclusion.
College Gossip.
—Harvard has at least one society that Is O. K.
—Tennis is gaining in favor at various colleges.
—The class of ’80 at Harvard voted $2,000 for a window in Memorial Hall.
—Yale is about to purchase an athletic ground. $10,000 has been subscribed.	‘
—The Harvard Daily Echo is said to have a circulation of 3 200 a week. Very good for a college paper.
—Tne Princeton Bicycle Club has twenty-five members. We think we can muster as many here, but no club has as yet been formed.
—The Vassar students are working hard to raise enough money to found the Raymond Scholarship, in honor of -their late President. They have raised $2,500.
—Chancellor Haven has secured $150,000 towards endowing Syracuse University since his connection with it He has been recently elected Bishop.—Chronicle.
—Harvard defeated Columbia in the football match on the Manhattan Pole grounds, Saturday, Oct. 30. Harvard made three goals and a touch-down; Columbia, nothing.
—Harvard University Law students not only complain that their school is the poorest ventilated in the country, but they go further yet and say it is not ventilated at ail.
—Amasa Stone having proposed to give $500,000 to the Western Reserve College, of Hudson, Ohio, on the condition that it be removed to Cleveland, it has been decided to remove, and give it the name of “ Western Reserve University.”
—The resident tutors at Oxford are discussing the possibility of conferring the Arts degree in certain cases without requiring a knowledge of Greek. There is a very general feeling of doing so m the case of honor students in mathematics and natural science.—Ex.
—A young woman of Cambridge, jealous of the honor of the students, on hearing of the defeats of the Harvards at baseball, remarked reproachfully: “ If the young gentlemen had paid more attention to their baseball, and less to
' ey would not have been so badly beaten.”— Uoi.tye ll'jinbljr.
—An additional gift of $15,000 to Bowdoin College at Brunswick, Me., by Henry Wiukley—making the total of his gifts $40,000—has been made, and devoted to the establishment of a Lati n professorship. Donations of $35,000 from Mrs. Stone, of Malden, Mass., are accepted, and G. T. Ladd is elected Stone professor of Intellectual and Moral Philosophy.
—The authorities of Laval University, Quebec, wished to establish a branch college in Montreal. A question then arose whether or not such an establishment would be legal, according to the charter. The matter was at length left to the decision of the Attorney-General in England, who decided that no branch institution would be legal-— King's College Record.
—The stranger who visited recitations in college, on Tuesday morning last, is found to be the Professor of Moral Philosophy in Edinburgh University. In a subsequent conversation with President Porter, he gave it as his opinion that the method of instruction here far surpassed that employed in the Scottish Universities. Instruction is given almost entirely by lectures.—Yale News.
—Scene in University Hall at a late entertainment: A young man sits conversing with a late acquaintance. Old gent appears and takes a seat by his side, rather too close tor side-splitting laughter. Young man leans over and says to new acquaintance: “ This infernal, goggle-eyed, old fool is trying to climb on top of me.” New acquaintance leans over, and touching old gent on the shoulder, whispers: “ Father, make room; you are in Mr. B.’s way.”—Chronicle.
168
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, November 27, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fourteenth year of its' existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects.con-nected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence iu class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If < subacriber faits to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending ns notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, nan have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, aa, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—The Philodemics, as usual, opened the regular series of Thursday evening Entertainments, with which the routine of class-work is varied during the winter months. After wasting “their sweetness on the desert air” of the society-room for the two first months of the year, they concluded to give the College public a sample of what they could do in the line of debate, and the College public, we are glad to say, swallowed the mental pabulum offered it with avidity, and is now ready to hold out its intellectual plate for more. It was law versus medicine, with classical lore to oversee and decide; or, in other words, the law and medical classes furnished the debaters, while F. W. Bloom, classical of ’81. presided over the discussion with all the dignity, gravity and decorum imaginable. The question was whether the legal or the medical profession is the more beneficial to mankind, and it was certainly handled in a manner creditable alike to the young debaters and to the Association of which they were the worthy representatives. Messrs. George Sugg and George E. Clarke championed the cause of law, while the claims of medicine were ably upheld by Messrs. W. Arnold and W. B. Mc-Gorrisk.
Mr. Bloom’s opening speech, in which he introduced the subject and the speakers, was briet, as it should be, and felicitous both in thought and diction. Mr. Bloom is blessed with a good voice, a clear and distinct enunciation, and a fund of good ideas, but he needs to pay a little more attention to the conventionalities. With the matter of his discourse, very little fault could be found; but the manner in which it was presented was perhaps open to criticism, which we feel the less hesitation in making because we know that Mr. Bloom has too much judgment not to appreciate its truth, and too much sound sense and good
will not to profit by it. On the present occasion, the care -less attitude which he assumed in addressing the audience ’ was calculated to produce an unfavorable impression on the large number of his hearers, who expect to find in a speaker not only good ideas and elegant language but also a graceful delivery.
Mr. Sugg’s arguments were strong, clear, and very ably ; delivered. The following are his strongest points: The legal profession forms the bone and sinew of the Bepublic. Law is indispensable in the establishing and controlling of government and society, and, in fact, is the very basis of . society. Law trains her sons for the legislative halls and the most eminent stations which can fall to the lot of men. -The physician’s work is performed in the secret chamber, where he can easily impose upon the credulity of his pa-’ tients. Mr. Arnold followed.with a speech replete with powerful arguments. His debate manifested careful research and thorough preparation. Among the ablest arguments brought forward were: Laws are frequently injurious, such as those which persecute God’s Church, grant divorces, and license the marriages of blood relations—a thing which, is . < p. used by physicians upon the plea of the physical disa: billies resulting from it. He cited examples of priests and liberty driven by iniquitous laws from Ireland, Poland, and France. The lawyer preserves the peace and property of man, while the physician preserves man himself. God’s greatest work was to create man, surely man’s ^greatest work is to preserve the creatures of God. He referred pathetically to the welcome always extended to the good. old family doctor, and eloquently portrayed the services rendered by the surgeon on the field of battle. The late civil war was caused by lawyers and the law’s imperfections. The law fosters a godless education, and is to a certain extent responsible for consequent crimes. Mr. Clarke then took the fl ior, and in a very forcible and eloquent •. manner depicted the evils resulting from the improper use of medicine. The physician cares for individuals, while lawyers attend to the affairs of nations. The Declaration of Independence was drawn up. and signed mainly by lawyers. Otis, a lawyer, was the first advocate of Freedom’s rights. Physicians who commit malpractice, etc., were handled without gloves. The majority of our presidents were lawyers. He spoke of our pride in the supreme court, consisting exclusively of lawyers, and cited brilliant examples: Morrison, Storey, and Taney. Mr. McGorrisk advocated his cause with energy, and his.remarks were very favorably received by the audience. His most convincing: arguments were as follows: To medicine is due the suppres sion of the yellow fever, and the founding of the sanitary systems of the entire world. He enumerated the benefiis resulting Irom the physician’s practise, such as curing diseases, deformities, etc.; likened the doctor’s work to that of our Lord,- « ho cuied the deaf, blind, etc. Finally, he asserted that the making of the lawyer rests with the doctor, as is evident from ihe adige: “ Mens tana in airport nano.”
Mr. McGorrisk, and Mr Clarke nave app> ared so often in public, and are now so well kn >wu to the mass of the students, that it will be unnecessary for us to state that their arguments were carefully prepared, well delivered, and. heartily applauded. Mr. Clarke has in him an abundance of the material of which good lawyers and good speakers are made; he appears so thoroughly convinced of the truth of everything he asserts that his words naturally tend to produce conviction in others; but anyone disposed to be hypercritical would, weare afraid, in this particular instance, net
L
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
169-
have been so well satisfied with the solidity of his reasoning as with his manner of delivery. One feature of the debate with which we were particularly pleased, and on which the young gentlemen deserve to be specially congratulated, is that they did not, as amateurs too frequently do, confine-themselves strictly to their written speeches, but devoted - considerable time to replying to arguments which had been advanced, and to which they were not disposed to assent. Of course, where all do well distinctions are invidious; but were we inclined to bestow special praise on any one of the speakers, we would single out Mr. Arnold. It was his first public appearance as a debater, but we hope to hear from him frequently in the future.
The exercises of the evening were interspersed with musical selections, and to say that these were furnished by the University Quartette is a sufficient guarantee of their excellence. All things considered, the Philodemics are to be congratulated on the success of their first public Entertainment, and we trust that it will soon be followed by others equally interesting.
—As the Most Rev. Napoleon J. Perche, the venerable Archbishop of New Orleans, called to see us on his return from Europe, accompanied by Rev. Father Marine, 0. S. 0., also of New Orleans, we thought it necessary, as a manifestation of our esteem for our distinguished visitor, to give some sort of a complimentary Entertainment. The Philodemics, Thespians, Cecilians, Phllopa-trians, and Sorins were unprepared; therefore, they could do nothing. We were about giving up in despair, when we bethought ourselves of the Euglossians, who, being consulted, said that, rather than allow the venerable Archbishop to take his departure for his Southern home without some public manifestation of the honor which the students of the University felt had been conferred upon them and their Alma. Mater, by a visit from such a well-known and distinguished guest, they would give an impromptu Entertainment. Accordingly, a programme was hurriedly prepared, and on last Tuesday evening was carried out in Washington Hall, in the presence of the Most Rev. Archbishop. Very Rev. Faher General, President 0<>rby,and the Faculty and students of the University. The first thing which the programme cdled f»r was mu-ic from the N. D. U. Cornet Band, who responded by giving us the Adelia Qtrckstep in very good side The Umvr-sitv Quartette followed with a pretty piece, Tancred (R ssini), which they rendered in a most charming man ner. Indeed, the University Quartette is fast becoming the favori’e musical organization of the University, and justly too, for it contains much of N 'tie Dime’s b‘->t mu-sicd talent. It is a long tim<- smee w<> heard such delightful music a« that by the Umvers'ty Quntette on that occasion; and when we mention the tact that Prof. Paul. Bros Basil and Leopold, C. S C-, and Mr. F. B10'>m, to>>k part in it, all who know these genthmen can easily imagine what a rare 'nar was given to those who had the pleasure of listening to them. Tnev well merited the lively appiau-^e given them at th? finale
When the last sweet strains of the Tancred had died away, Mr. F. Bloom appeared upon the b' ards as the reader of the Address Salutatory, which contained, in a few well-chosen words, the sentiments of the students of the University towards the Archbishop. “ St Cecilia’s Vision ” was given in excellent spirit by W. J- McCarthy, of the Sen
ior department, followed with “The Unknown Rider,” by -Mr. P. J. Hagan, of the Scholastic staff. Mr. Hagan’s rendition was perfect, and the thunder of applause which greeted its conclusion was an unmistakable evidence of the audience’s appreciation of. his efforts. We were anticipating a great treat in Davis’s “ FdntenOy,” which, according to the programme, was to have been delivered by J. P. O’Neill, but our hopes were disappointed by the young gentleman’s non-appearance. “Grandiloquence” was the rather unpretentious (?) title of Mr. A. J. Zahm’s speech on “ The Fourth of July,” in which he sawed the air, and called upon his fellow-students to join their efforts with his in celebrating the occasion. Mr. Zahm did well. He was followed by Master J. Gibert in a French Address, in which the sentiments of the French students were beautifully embodied. > An additional charm was given this address in the eyes of the Archbishopffrom the fact that Master. Gibert hails from the same place as his Grace. The young gentleman seemed to be a little timid at first; but this is pardonable when we remember that Master Gibert is a very small boy, and that this was his first appearance in public. He, however, read his address very well. C. J. Tinley, one of the best deciaimers in the University, could not, owing to a very severe cold, appear in a promised and favorite role— an occurrence which we regret very much, as we know of no one at Notre Dame who affords greater pleasure in declamation than Master Tinley. Jos. Quinn’s selection was entitled “Sublime Tragedy,” and sublime it was, both in sentiment (?) and delivery. The tragedy occurred one night when the thunders rolled, the lightning flashed and illumined the sky, and the rain fell in torrents—it was on such a night that a man killed a musquito. Tenor Aria, by Prof. M. T. Corby, of Chicago, was admirably sung, and enthusiasticallv encored. The accompaniment was played by Prof. Paul, who followed Prof. Corby with the piano solo “Invitation to Waltz.” The s >lo was simply grand, and well deserved the hearty encore at its conclusion. Prof. Paul is a brilliant performer on the piano, and we hope to hear him often.	’
E. C. 0 rick wts bilhd for “ E nancipation Agitated,” but seeing the utter lu'iliiy of agitating the question at the present dav, he re-olved not to make his app arance. The G rman sulen’s were represented by F H. Gtever, of the Scholastic -t ff, who, in a few welt-chns -n remarks, gave vim to the feelings <>f the German students. “The Loat Bell in the A'lantie. ”—next on the programme—was not declaimed bv F Girritv, wh • aPeged as an excust for not appearing that it was a useless expenditure of time and wind tn ta’k about an o]d bell which could nnt he found. Great was our disappointment when we learned that J. W. S art, of the Junior departin' rit, had refused to declaim “The L'fe B tat ” be cause navigation h id closed. We tho k that he might have found a mor-extenuating excuse. J. W. Guthrie did not declaim his ‘ N»ie but the Brave,” saying thm it would be inappropriate. a« there were n- ne but th'- brave present. Mr. A J Vedder faili d to app< ar in “ Strewing Flowers on the Graves of our De id,” owing to a slight disc'location of the smruineous fluid underneath his right, eye. Wtlhe Grant Jones gave us “Artemus Ward’s Speech in London,” wnich took the audience bv storm. Willie is to be congratulated upon the successful rendition of the speech.
Then came the event of the evening, “The Ancient Order of Muggletonians,” a comedy in two acts. The
170
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Messrs. Hanan, Jones, and W- J- McCarthy, assumtd the principal roles, to the entire satisfaction of all present. We think the comedy was a little too rough; but then we must remember that the whole entertainment was hastily gotten up, and consequently left no time for remodelling. J. P. Hagan was successful a« “N<>go Dumps,” and manifested great solici'ude for “Mrs. Dumps and all the little Dumplings.” “S'p’imus Sellwell Jolly,” a commercial
Drummer,” who sold himself badly in trying to sell good “Nogn Dumps,” and was paid f >r his sales in a s< und pommelling by “Sn'ggins’ Clerks” was well personated by C. Hagan. W. G Jones, as “ Jabez Sniggms,” a grocer who gets most grocer-ly abused, was a decided success. We think, however, that there w«re parts in his role which he greatly ovi idtd, by endeavoring to be too comical. “Samuel Wailwell,’’a waiter with plenty of brass, yet always on the ln< kout for more, was admirably personated by W. J McCarthy, who was always careful to tell those whom he served that they should not iorget the “ waitah.” Malone, Dulaney, Sol Henoch, and J. Noonan made first-class shopmen. All in all, the comedy was well rendered by those who took part in it. In our estimation, it would have been given with better effect had a few rather unbecoming passages been omrted.
The closing r< marks were made by Most Rev. Archbishop Perche, who thanked the young gentlemen for the Entertainment, and exhorted them to avail themselves of their present golden opportunities for becoming erudite and worthy citizens of a great Republic. He said that on the morrow he would take his departure for home, and would carry with him a lasting remembrance of the joy and pleasure he experienced on this occasion. The retiring march was well played by the Notre Dame University Cornet Band.
We congratulate Prof. Lyons, the director of the Entertainment, on the success which attended the tweltth annual winter exercises of the Euglossians. -
—The proclamation of President Hayes, supported by the Governors of the different Slates, made last Thursday a day of national thanksgiving. With many, this day means one upon which reunions, social gatherings, sumptuous repasts, and a good time generally, are in order. These, ol course, are right and unobjectionable in their own proper time and place. But in the proclamation of a day of public thanksgiving, there is, or at least should be, a more worthy object in view. On such a day, we are called upon by the ruler of our Republic to return thanks to the Ruler of the universe for the providential and tender care with which He has watched over the interests of our great and prosperous nation, and over each and every individual within its vast and flourishing domain. The hymn of thanksgiving which begins in the North is caught up in the South, wafted by balmy southern winds to the East, and borne sweetly over the snow-capped heights oi Rocky’s rugged range to the Pacific’s golden shores, whence, reverberating to the Mississippi valley, it ascends in chorus grand from the centre of the nation to the Throne of the King of kings. What a grand object for our contemplation—a whole nation on bended knee raising up heart and voice in thanksgiving for favors received, accompanied by a petition for the continuance of the same, and a bestowal of those new ones which Providence in His
omniscient wi-dom may deem necessary to the welfare and preservation of a gn at nation!
America, proud land of the free, has many and great reasons to devote one day of the three hundred and sixty-five to thanksgiving Her hundred and fourth birthday finds her one of the most powerful and prosperous nations on the globe. Her vessels may be seen swarming into every port of the navigable world, laden with her mechanical and intellectual products, in exchange for which she rec, ives the stored-up wealth of ages, which, bringing « home, she distributes among her people by building up	|
magnificent cities, encouraging industrial pursuits of every ! description, converting dense wild forests into blooming	i
gardens, and doing everything calculated to promote the welfare, prosperity, and happiness of all within her vast domains. While other nations are in a constant state of disquietude,, or shaken by intestine strife, or engaged in destructive wars, America, like a maj-stic ship on a calm, beautiful bay, sails on undisturbed by wind or wave.
Let us cast a glance across the Atlantic, and observe for a moment the course ot events in European countries. We see them armed to the very teeth, watching one another’s movements with the most intensely jealous interest. We behold a tyrannical government, on the one hand, denying its subjects their civil rights in its avariciously base endeavor to bring them into a most shameful and uncalled for subjection, to do which to the horrors of a long and painful famine is added a most unjust and villiain-ous course of proceedings. A fair land made desolate from the ravages of famine, where even yet the cries of poor children for the necessaries of life may be heard,— and to furnish which an accursed government will do nothing—is made to bear the additional burden of supporting an army of soldiers sent over from England ostensibly for the purpose of maintaining order, but in reality to rouse the long-suffering people of Ireland into rebellion, and then, under the plea of preserving order, exterminate them by shooting them down like dogs.
In another portion of Europe we see religion driven from a fair country by an infidel government. Russia, Prussia, . Turkey, Austria and Italy are casting bitter and deadly glances at each other, all jealous of their possessions, and awaiting a favorable opportunity of annihilating one another. ’Tis true that our own beloved country has had three bloody wars since she forced that same country which now holds Ireland in chains, to acknowledge her independence in the bloody struggle of the Revolution. One of these wars was in 1812, when England made her final effort to enslave us and when we again gave her an idea of the strength of Freedom’s arms; then came our-, war with Mexico, and finally the late war of the Rebel- . lion, in which freeman grappled with freeman for what each thought his sacred rights. It was one of the most * bloody wars recorded in the annals of history; it was an unnatural one; for brother was fighting against brother, and -in a manner in which freemen alone can fight. But when the fight was over, we shook hands, forgot our trouble, and to-day we are as united as ever. In comparison to the frequency of wars among other nations, ours is indeed a peaceful nation. During the period of our two foreign wars, from both of which we emerged safe, England has had seven; France, ten; Prussia, six; Russia, ten; Austria, five; and Italy, six; and in some of these wars every one of these nations, with the exception of England, has been beaten. During the Rebellion, England had two in-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
171
surrections; Prussia, one; Austria, two; and Russia, one. France has had seven revolutions, and is now, we may say, on the eve of another. Italy has had twelve, and Spain ten. Seven times during our existence have the monarchs of France been compelled to leave their thrones. Prussia has been forced to change her form of government from an absolute to a constitutional monarchy; the sovereigns of Austria, Spain, and Greece have been forced to vacate their thrones. England has lost many of. her colonies, and Austria, her provinces; France has suffered in the loss of her possessions in Belgium and Holland, while Germany has witnessed the destruction of the German Confederation.
While every European nation has been thus agitated, and lost a greater or less portion of its territories, our territory has rapidly increased; and we have never, and with God’s help never will give up a single square foot of the nation’s possessions. All these kingdoms have been growing for thousands of years, while we are but a century old. But though young, the world beholds in us the grandest republic that it ever produced—one which is destined—if it does not already—to lead and outshine all other nations of the earth. But, best of all, we are a Christian nation; and for this reason more than any other should we return daily and unceasing thanks to Him who has thus far guided and blessed our young Republic. That God may forever bless and conserve our land was the prayer which ascended from the hearts of millions of freemen on Thursday last, who are happy in this, our land, over which floats the banner of the free—the starry banner of Liberty.	>
At Notre Dame the day was observed in an appropriate manner. Solemn High Mass was sung by President Corby, with Vice-President Walsh and Rev. J. O’Keefe as deacon and subdeacon. Everything passed off in a most pleasant and enjoyable manner, and we are sure that all will join us in saying that Thanksgiving was one of the best celebrated days of all this scholastic year.
Personal.
—J. Cullen, ’75, is doing well at Lafayette, Ind.
—F. Luther, ’76, is in a dry-goods store at Albion, N. Y.
—Dr. A. M. Owen, ’67, is editing a medical journal at Evansville, Ind.
—E. G. Ohmer, ’72, is in business at Fargo, Dakota Ter., where he is doing well.
—Jno. Hunt (Commercial* 80,) is associated with' his father in the packing business at Neenah, Wis.
—Mr. and Mrs. Rea, of Chicago, were at the College last Tuesday to place their son in the Minim Department.
—Mr. Metz and lady, of Chicago, were here during the past week visiting their sons, Masters H. and C. Metz, of the Minim department.	'
—We lately received a letter from Rev. Father Carrier, C. 8. C., who is a professor in St. Laurent’s College, Canada. He enjoys excellent health, and desires to be remembered to all.
—Mr. E. A Blake, the gentlemanly representative of C. B. Cottrell & Co., successors to Cottrell & Babcock, the celebrated printing-press manufacturers of Westerly, R. I., paid Notre Dame a brief visit on Saturday last. Mr. Blake professed his admiration at the works of art and virtu he saw here, and spoke in warm general terms of the appearance and air of solid comfort of the new College buildings. Mr. Blake has now a handsomely fitted office at 112 Mon
roe street, Chicago, where he transacts the Western business of the company.
—W. L. Dewey, of New York, has been with us the past week, putting in a new printing-press for the Ave Maria. Tne machine is a handsome, and apparently a very substantial one, and is Irom the celebrated manufactory of C. B Cot'rell & Co., of Westerly, R. I. We congratulate the company on possessing the services of snch a thorough mechanic and gentlemanly agent as Mr. Dewey. We like this gentleman all the better as he seems to be much pleased with the Scholastic, and some ot the editorial corps whom he had met.
Local Items.
—Skating.
—Below zero.	*
—More steam.
—“ Wakaba wky.”
—“Oh misery of miseries 1 ”
—“ Do you know me now ?”
—Georgie sports a “ shiner.”
—Shoot the Medics’ skeleton.
—The “ waitah ” knew “ Mike.”
—Who gave “ Geowge that shiner?”
—Call and see our new press. It’s a beauty.
—Do not forget to send us personals and locals.
—Harry Sells has found “ Mary’s Little Lamb ”
—The “ Corporal” does not like turkey, not he!
—Ed, receive our thanks for that luscious orange.
—We all saw that skeleton the night of the debate.
—Call on B. Thomas and procure a pair of “clubs.”
—Wednesday last was a grand day for the skaters.
—Prof. Lyons is busily engaged on The Scholastic Annual.
—Indianapolis got away with Chicago Sunday afternoon.
—Sentinel: “ ’Hie—eighteen in the baggage car, and all is well.”
—Sixty-five Seniors excursionized to Niles last Wednesday.
—An aquarium is the latest attraction in the Minim Department.
—Archbishop Perche left for New Orleans on Wednesday morning.
—We noticed several " star cutters” on the ice last Sunday afternoon.
—Master Harry Snee, Minim Department, is a promising young pianist.
—Bro. Ireneus says that the excursionists had a grand old day of it at Niles.
—We feel ourselves under obligations to Master Jackson for favors received.
—No mail from the East or West on Monday. Snowbound trains account for it.
—The skating has not been so good for years at Notre Dame as at the present time.
—Who asked to sit in the Band circle with a stuffed horn on Tuesday night. Eh ?
—“ Pluto ” congratulates himself on his narrow escape on the eve of the eighteenth.
—Several parties were out rabbit hunting during the week, but could not find any.
—We are glad to note a decided improvement in the singing at Mass on Sundays.
—The “Corporal’s” rotundity was the subject of much comment on Tuesday night.
—How welcome and sweet were the strains produced by the Band on Tuesday evening!
—The Juniors’ aoirie musicale, Thanksgiving eve, is, so far, the event of the social season.
172
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—The. Legal Fraternity are compiling a new set of laws for the government of the country.
—“ Nogo. Dumps ” sported a rather fine-looking beaver at Tuesday night’s Entertainment.
—The Juniors are having a winter house erected on the northern portion of their Campus.
—W. D. Cannon’s name was omitted from the Roll of Honor last week through mistake.	'
—The Band played well at the Entertainment given by the Euglossians on Tuesday evening. '
—Mr. Dumps, Mrs. Dumps and all the little Dumplings were made happy on Tuesday evening.
—Master C. Rietz, of the Junior department, will in time make a most graceful and perfect pianist.
—An excellent paper was read at the Monthly Theological Conference by Vice-President Walsh.
— 'Pluto’s” bark is no longer beard in the University’s classic halls. He has entered the Novitiate.
—A. special coach was chartered by the Seniors for their excursion to Niles over the M. C. R. R.
—Everyone was carried away by the singing of Prof. M. T. Corby at Tuesday evening’s Entertainment
—The Freshmen are jubilant because their man, Willie Grant Jones, took the prize in the late oratorical contest.
—The ice on St. Mary’s Lake is eight inches thick, and as smooth as glass, thereby furnishing excellent skating.
—Little Eddie, of the Minim Department, feels very proud over a pair of new boots adorned with two long red tassels.
—Everybody admired the bow of acknowledgment which the “ Corporal ” made when encored on Tuesday evening.
—Master H. Metz, of the Minim Department, lately showed us some very fine views of Rocky Mountain scenery.
—The Niles excursionists returned on the six o’clock train. They said that they spent a most enjoyable day in Michigan.
—The Faculty held its last regular meeting on Tuesday last, Thursday, the regular day of meeting, being Thanksgiving Day.
—One of our- friends, who hails from the sunny South, where snow is never seen, wanted to know it it would stain clothes.
—Mas'er J P. Hagan, E. Orrick, W. J. McCarthy, C. Tinley, J. P O’Neill were the ushers at the Euglossians’ Entertainment.
—The “candy pan’s,” which we fondly imagined had disappeared forever, were seen before the footlights on Tuesday evening.
—Master Eddie Gall, of the Junior Department, has our most grateful thanks for a sample of the contents of his thanksgiving box
—The Seniors had a pleasant time in their study-hall on Thanksgiving Eve, a lull report of which will appear in our next issue.
—Mas’er Rnodius invited several of his friends to a spread last W< dnesday. It is needless to say that everything was ot the be-t.
—Old ladv: * What La’in do they teach in the Senior Classical?’’ Studt nt, excited: “I believe Historise Sacras and V<ri R->mtB.”
—The lawv< re assert that that rooster and the artis’ who painted it are isnchromatic. They advise him to take a little ischuretic medicine.
—Prof, in Arithmetic (to small kid)—“What is the d'ffereno between nue yard and two yards?” Small boy: “ A lence.” '(Duet rases.)
—Masters 8 Ils and Gall enjoyed the large boxes sent them by kind friends on Thanksgiving Day. Tneir fellow Pn ps came in for a large share of the goodies.
—The regular monthly meeting of the < fikere of the Lemonnier Library Association will be helo to-morrow night in the library rooms. All are expected to attend. ‘
—The Archconfraternity was addressed by Archbishop Perche on Sunday evening. Prof. Lyons, Fathers Granger, O Keefe, Stoffel, and Bro. Leander, C. 8. C., were present..
—The boats have been secured for the winter. Would it not be a good idea to have them , painted during the winter, so that all will be in readiness when navigation opens ?
—The White Roses of the first Grammar Class, Preparatory Department, have defeated the Red Roses. Masters Kleine, Reitz, H. Rose and C. Tinley had the best scores.
—We are sorry that the report of the Seniors’ excursion to Niles reached us too late for publication this week. A full report of the proceedings will appear in our next issue.
—The express wagon, which makes four trips daily between Notre Dame and South Bend, is anxiously watched on each successive trip by the boys, expecting boxes, bicycles, etc.
—Prof, in Bible History (to small boy): “Why were only the male children of the Hebrews killed?” Small boy: “ Because God wanted to kill the Hebrews and not the She-brews.”
—We are sorry that we could not accept the kind invitation extended us by the committee on arrangements for the Niles excursion to accompany them. Receive our thanks all the same, gentlemen.
—Masters Maher and Bennett, although rather new bands at science, have commenced with astronomy... They claim to have discovered stars last Monday night that had never been heard of before.	*
—A large imperial photograph, finished in water-color, of His Grace Most Rev. Napoleon Joseph Perche, Archbishop of New Orleans, has been placed in the Lemonnier Library to commemorate that venerable prelate’s visit to Notre Dame.
—Our friend John says that Leonidas was one-of the original dead-heads, because he held the pass at Thermopylae. We fear our friend John has been cribbing jokes from our college exchanges, for we recollect seeing the above in several of them.
—Our friend John is a beautiful engraver. He lately presented us with a fine engraving of the Editor’s chair and table. We would advise you, John, to make a specialty of drawing; for you would, no doubt, in a few short years become a brilliant artist.
—Our aquatic men are talking about putting one of their boats on skates for use during the winter. The ice was never in as good condition as at present, and the “ gadders” find it rather hard to remain in the studio while there is so much sport to be found outside.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin has received a letter from Cardinal Simeoni stating that His Holiness Leo XIII was greatly pleased when he learned that a devotional work for students, to be known as the, “Angel of the Schools,” was in course of preparation at Notre Dame.
—Missa Paroulorum will be sung at Mass to-morrow, the Isi Sunday of Advent. At Vespers, the hymns for which will be found on p. 45 of the Vesperal. the Alma Redemptoris will be sung instead of the. Salve Regina. Alter iht 0 Salutarie the Rorate Cedi, p. 8*. will be sung.
—We cannot too strongly condemn the despicable and uncharitable habit some Seniors have of continually annoying some of their younger companions. We would advise these young gentleman to remember that golden rule: “ Do unto others as you would wish them to do unto you.”
—The Columbian^gave their first soiree dansante this season in Washington HaP, last Satmday night. Among the invited gue>ts were all the former m«mb<r< <>t the Club who now reside at Notre Dame. Aveline’s S ring Bind turmshed good music, and Brown and Robert Emmett did the catering.	.	■
—The fifth regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held last. Wednesday evening. Masters Fischel, H Metz, and J. Courtney delivered declamations, and Master H. Snee sung. C. Echlin was cuosen to fill the vacancy in the Secretaryship, occasioned by the resignation of Master Snee.	'
—Prof, of Grammar: “ What are the principal parts of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	173
the verb ride?” Good little boy: “Ride, rode, ridden.” Prof.: “N>xt one take glide.” Bid litile boy: “Glide, glode, glid---but before he could finish the last word Prof, made a glide for him, but the boy had gl< de from the ro<>m and ghdden for home.
—We saw Bro Simon committing a fowl deed last Wednesday morning. He <laughtered about two hundred turkeys for Thanksgiving Day.
In Turkeydom was a great flutter. John says, When they were informed that President Hayes Had war made on Turkey, though ’iwould give him pain To see us like cannibals eating the slain.
While Seniors declaimed and did L berty toast, Our Juniors were happy in “ ruling the roait."	.
—The Glee Club had a rehearsal in the Juniors’ studyhall at 8:30 o’clock, on Monday evening. S >me of the members have really excellent voices. We think, how< ver, that on the occasion referred to the leader beat time a little too loud. We are quite sure that we distinguished the charming voices of Maher, Bennet, and Flynn from those of the other singers. These three young gentlemen have excellent solo voices.
—The reventh regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Phil-opatrian S ciety was held Nov. 21st. An interesting debate took place at this meeting. Masters Rohrback, F. W. Wheatly, A. Schmil, A. Brown, H. Dunn and G Woodson were the principal speakers. Declamations were delivered by Masters M. Herrick, L. Gilbert, J. Wilder, A Mendel, G O'Kane, E. Smith. E. A. Munce and H. Devitt.
—Our friend John dedicates the following lines to the Minims:
“ In country or in town, In trowser or in gown, A kid's the same, And hard to tame As lightning is to hold, sir.”
—We cannot but be amaz -d at the consummate cheek of some parties who will get up an entertainment of some kind or other, not invite a single member of the editoral corps to be present, and then a»k us to write up or publish an account of the affair. Now, once for all, we wish such parties to understand that we’ll do nothing of the kind. If weare not invited to be present at entertainments, we’ll neither write nor publish any account of them.
—The lawyers were somewhat disconcerted bv the appearance of a huge rooster, labelled “Victory for the Medics,” which descended from the aerial heights of the rotunda, remained a moment m mid air, and after a lusty cock-a-doodle doo, suddenly disappeared into n aims inac-" cessible, mid the loud and prolonged cheers of an appreciative assemblage of students and members of the Faculty, on the night of the 18th. The lawyers swear that they’ll arraign the artist for defamatory engraving at the next session of the Moot Court.
—And now a certain member of the Faculty need not go to the lakes to shoot ducks. He has started an aquarium in which he keeps a fine specimen oi the duck family. Well, it was enough to discourage any one to walk around the lakes morning after morning, spending time and ammunition to no purpose, and then be obliged to bear the imputation of not being able to shoot worth a cent. The aquarium is a good idea—a move in the right direction towards making every shot tell.
—Prof. Edwards has received, through Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, Ind., the following donations for the Lemon* nier Library: A complete set of the Metropolitan, a monthly magazine, devoted to Religion, E lucation, Literature, and General Information, 6 vols., published in Baltimore, 1853—58. This valuable addition to the department of periodicals was presented by Mr. Edward Forrester. His sister, Miss Lavina Forrester, gave “The History of Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,” by Edward Gibbon, with notes by Rev. H. H. Milman, 6 vols., Harper’s, 1860
—The 10th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Associatian took place Saturday, Nov. 20<h. Masters R. Fleming, A. C 'ghlin, C. Rieiz. J. Burns, J. Guthrie, W. Cleary, H. Rose, E Orrick and J. Hernan read essays. An interesting debate then took place, in which E Orrick. J. O’Neill, J. Homan and C. Tinley participated. Master
C. Rose, J. Ruppe. and'E. Fischel presented themselves for admission, and after fulfilling the necessary requirements, were unanimously elected members. Public readers for this week are F. Grever, J. Burns, F. Keine, G. Silverman, J. Homan, C. Tinley, and G. Rhodiu«. Master J. P O'Neill closed the meeting with Davis’s “ Fonteuoy.”
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. Kavanagh, J L. Noonan, Geo. Clarke, J. Solon, E. J. Taggart, J. J. Casey, B. Cas^y, L. E. Clements, E A. Otis. J’. N O.-her. H. 3. O’Donnell, F. C. Smith. W. J Brown. J. F. . Brown. J. C. Newman, F. E. Kuhn, A. Korty, J D. De’aney, A. Zahm. C. Brehmer, W. J McCarthy, W. J. Kelly, W. R, Y-'Ung J. R Marlet.t. G L. Hagan, H. A. Bte-z C. H. Thiele, Jno. McNamara, Thns. Byrne. L Mathers, E. G. Sugg, J. P. Haga >, J. A. McIntyre, J. O’Reilly, Ed McGorrisk. C. W. Bennett. E. E Piper, B. F. Smith. W. E Hoffman, D. Ryan, D. A. Harrington, J. J. McErlain, G. L. Tracy, J. J. Malone, F. Godfrey, A. Weisheart, W. P. Fishburn, C. B. Van Dusen, L. M. Proctor, F. M. Bell, L. W Siitzel. J. Ryan, W. Johnson, B. Eaton, J. Redmond, W. Jones, J. M. Falvey, R. M. Anderson, R. Le Bourgeois, R. C. Adams, T. F. Clarke.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. A. Brown. F. A. Boone, C. J. Brinkman, M. G. Butler, V. G. Butler, J. H. Burns, A Bodine, G. C. Castanedo, W • L. Cogh’in, W. D. Cannon, J. Courtney, W J. Cavanaugh. W. S. Cleary, H. P. Dunn. H. F. Devitt, J. W. DrVitt, A. J. Dennis, N. H. Ewing. T. F. Flynn, J. M. Flynn, J H. Fendrick, R. E. Fleming, Ed Fischel, J. J. Gordon. A. A. Gall, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, H. P. Hake, T. J. Hurley, A. J. Hintze, J. T. Homan, J. M. Heffernan, G. J Hamam, F. R. Johnson, H. T. Jackson, P. A. Joyce, T. H. Kengel, F. A. Kleine, J. M. Kelly, C. C. Kolars, S. Livingston, Frank McPhiliipa. J. L. Morgan, C. J. McD. rmott, C. M. Mnrdock, 8. T. Murdock, J. F. Martin, J. S McGrath, A. S. Manning. H. W. Morse, N. J. Nelson. E. C. Orrick. G. F. O'Kane, J. P. O Neill, L. O'Donnell, C. F. Perry, F. A. Quinn, G. J Rhodius, A. N. Rohrback, H. L..Roae»C. F. Rietz, J. Ruppe, G. W. Silverman, A. C. Schmil, W. E. Smith, E. E. Smith, G. Schafer, J._W. Start, J. M..Scanlan, G. A. Truschel, C. A. Tinley, F. J. Woeber, F. W. Wheatley, Gny Woodson, J. Whalen, T. Williams, W. T. Weney, F. E. Wilder.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C.	C. Echlin. J. S. Cour’ney, E. A. Howard, W. M. Olds, J. A. Kelly, H. A. Kitz, W. T. Berthelet, G. E. Tourtillotte, D. G. Taylor, A. J. Van Mourick, H. Metz, F. Fishel, F. Moroney, A, H. Chirhart, J. W. Frain, D. O'Connor, J. J. McGrath, J; Ruppe. E. 8. Chirhart, H. J. AckermanJ M. E. Devitt, C. Metz, J. E. Chaves. L. J. Young, A. B. Bender, W. J. Miller, J. McGrath, E. McGrath.
Class Honors.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
F. W. Bloom, Geo. Sugg. Jas.. Noonan. D. Harrington, A. Zahm, W. B. McGorrisk, E. Orrick, F. A. Quinn, R.’Anderson, C. B. Van Deusen, C. W. McDermott, F. Grever, N. Ewing, Joa. Homan, E. McGorrisk, Geo.-Tracy, B. Pollock,. J._Casey,_J. N. Osher, P. J. Hagan, E. Otis, H. Simms, G. Clarke, F. Clarke, W. Arnold, J. Malloy.
~ MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D.	G. Taylor, C. C. Echlin. H. C. Snee, J. 8. Courtney, G. E. Tourtillotte, C. E. Droste, IL A. Howard, A. G. Molander, F. Moroney, A. H. Chirhart, F. Fishel, H. Kitz. J. A. Kelly, A. J. Van Mourick, J. W. Frain, J. J. McGrath, W. H. Hanavin, W. M. Oide, J. C. Haslam, D. O’Connor, W. T. Berthelet, T. McGrath, W. Taylor, H. Metz, J. H. Dwenger, J. Rnppe, M. E. Devitt, E. S. Chirhart, L. J. Young, J. McGrath, J. R. Bender, C. Metz, A. B. Bender, E. B. Baggard, H. J. Ackerman, F. B. Farrelly, E. McGrath.	,
List of Excellence.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—1’. W. Bloom, J. Noonan, A.Zahm, N. Ewing; Greek —F. W. Bloom, J. Homan. A. Zahm, J. Malloy; Moral Philosophy—F. W. Bloom; Logic—G. Sugg, D. Harrington, J. B. Hagan, W. Arnold. J. Noonan; English Composition—J. Solon, R. E. Fleming, N. Ewing; Rhetoric—C. B. Van Duesen, C.
174
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
McDermott, English Literature ; Criticism—A. Zahm; Algebra—F. Grever; Geometry—J. Malloy, R. Fleming; Trigonometry—C. Van Deusen, R. Anderson; Calculus—E. Orrick, A. Zahm, W. B. McGorrisk: Descriptive Geometry-G. Sugg, E. Orrick; Physiology—E. Otis, C. L. Hagan, J. McIntyre; Botany—J. McIntyre; Zoology—C. B. Van Densen, E. Orrick; Geology—W. B. McGorrisk, F. W. Bloom; Physics—G. Clarke, H. Simms, E. Orrick ; Ch< mistry—W. J. McCarthy, J. Noonan, G. L. Hagan; History—Geo. E Clarke, C._ McDermott, C. Van Dusen; Mineralogy—E. Otrick, W. McGoirisk W..J. McCarthy ; Linear Drawing— F. Kettig, 8. Terry.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
Robert King,
TEACHER OF	'
Elocution and Dramat'C Art, (Since 1855,) 73 TWENTY-SIXTH STREET, CHICAGO.
L beral arrangement® made with Colleges and Univer-siites t<>r Drama'ic R cital® and Humorous Readings.
Terms sent on application, oct23 3m
Pittsburgh, Ft Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Nov- 7» 18SO.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON ST8. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1 Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 8, Night Ex	No. 5. Limit Ex.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,....... .......	12 05 a.m. 1.15 “ 3.30 “ 5.00 “ 655 “ 1.25 “	9.15 a.m. 10.10 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.18 “ 5.40 “ 6.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 535 “ 713 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	7.30 p.m. 10.25 p.m.
Mansfield,	 Crestline	Arrive				1.40 a.m.
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	... Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.15 PM. 8.46 “ 7.00 “	6 35 P.M. 8.18 “ 9.30 “ 12 08 A.M. 2.50 “ 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.28 ‘ 1233 a.m. 240 •" 4.55 “ ’ 8.00 “	1 45 A.M. 5.35 7.16 “ 9.40 “
GOING EAST.				
	No. 8, Fast Line	No. 2. Morn. Ex.	No. 4, Atlan.Ex.	No, 6, N. Y. Ex.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 FL Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline, -...Arrive	9 40 p.m. 2.59 a.m. 655 “ 8.55 “ 1008 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 1153 “ 23> p.m. 4.36 “ 5.43 “ 7.10 “	5.15 p.m. 9 25 “ 12 15 A.M. 238 “ 3 55 5.30 “	3.30 p.m. 8.35 p.m. 12 35a.m.
Crestline, 	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rocheeter,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive Trains Nos 3,6, 5 am burgh daily except 8att except Saturday. All This is the only Line 1 Cab* from Chicago to 1 and New York without principal ticket offices al	1205 p.m. 12.35 « 2.26 “ 4 00 “ 622 “ 7.30 “ 4 ran da irday. Ti ithera dail ha- rune t laltimore, change. ' thelowes E	7 30 pm. 803 “ 1006 “ 11.45 “ 2 04 a.m. 3.15 “ ily. Train ain No. 8 y except S he celebra Washingtc hrough ti< tcurrent n &.im	640 a.m. 7 20 “ 923 “ 1L25 “ 2.10 “ 3 15 p.m. No. 1 lea eaves Chic Sunday ted Puluu n City, Pt skets for s ites. as, o. i	12 40 a.m. 1.15 “ 2 57 “ 4.25 “ 730 a.m. ves Pittasago daily ji Palace illadelphis ale at ail & T. A
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cara, Palace Reclining Chair Cara and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cara, ran through direct, with- out change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for eeate In the Jlneet Reclining Chair Palace Care is the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cara of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and
PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tlie Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne* braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the .North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Charlton,	J. C. McMuixnr,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager 210 Dearborn at, near cor. of AfUi&s, Chl^gw
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls your attention to the following REASONS W M Y—if about to make a Journey to the GREAT WJuST—you should Travel over it:
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union Depots, at ail important point*. No change of cars between Chicago, Kansas City, Leavenworth. Atchison or Council Bluets. Quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purposes, and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. A journey that furnishes the finest views of the fertile farms and pretty cities of Illinois. Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered as one of the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive at destination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty: calm, not angry. In
That the unremitting care of the Chicago, Bock Island 4 Pacific Railway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the great assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the great citiesof the United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while en route to behold the wonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health, pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October, the Company every year puts on sale. May 1st, at all coupon ticket offices in the United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver. Colorado Springs and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October 31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties of tan or more, good for ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.
KEMEMBER, this is the most direct route for all point* WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further information, time tables, maps or folders, call upon or address	_____
2EL. K- CABIJB,	1 ML W. JO8W,
Vice Pres't and Gen’l Manager, Chicago.	Gani Ticks* sad Pam’r Agvas.
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use cf the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, Ac., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
'	J. F. EDWARDS.
Notbe Dams, Indiana.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago RAILWAY.
July 18,1880. Local and Through Time Table. No. 19.
Going1	North.	STATIONS.	Going1	South.
1.25a m.		Lbavb	abrivi - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m.	8.05 p.m
2 38 “	1 55 p m.	- - - - ^a Forte, - -	10.23 •*	S51 •*
2.13 “	136 “	- - - Stil'well, - - -	10 41 “	9.2f) “
11.55 p m.	1 16 “	. . . . Walkerton, - - -	tion •*	9 47 “
11.24 “	12.46 “	- - - Plvmomh, ...	1) 35 “	1 >.33 «
10 34 “	11.53 a.m.	- ... Rochester, - - -	12.27 p.m.	6.25 a.m
19.58 “	11 14 “	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.05 “	7U ‘
1935 “	10 51	- - -	- Pern, - - - -	130 “	7 25 “
9.0R “	10.24 “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	1.59 •*	1.01 “
8.38 “	9.55 “	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	2.32 “	1.3 > “
7.54 *'	914 “	- - - - Tipton. - -	316 “	2.23 “
7.12 “	8.30 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4 00 “	3.'4
6.10 “	739 “	- - Indian ipolis. - - -	5.00 “	4. 0 “
THE ONLY LINE Rmning a noon Train out of Indianapolis for NORTHERN INDIANA and MICHIGAN. and for Toledo, D. tn it, Buffilo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST.
Elegant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between TNDTANOPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDP’S and MICHIGAN CITY.
V. T, Mallott,	Chas. H Rockwell, .
Gen’l Manager. Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding or Notre Damm
.	University,
Price, $1, postpaid.
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, •	Philadelphia, Pa.
:	BUY THE
CLASS DAY BOOK OF ’80.
Published by the Class of *80.
Besides containing the Guide and Hand Book to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Academy, it embraces
“CLASS SO^G,” POETEY, LTEEAEY SELECTION'S, ETC., Together With
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS, ’VEHSITY EXCHANGE NEWS, LAUGHABLE ANECDOTES&HUM0B0US EXTRACTS.
For Sale at Students’ Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SINGLE COPT, ---	30 CEMTS.
UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(MAIN BUILDING.}
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded n 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS, MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notee Dame gives a more complete business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected./
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Cayalouges, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,	* f
Very Rev. VV. < ORUY, C. £ C., Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.