he Scholastic.

pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE
TUDENTS.
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAKE, INDIANA, APRIL 25, 1874.	Number 35.
Geyssrs in ths Distance.
No. vn.
The sight of so large a body of water as the Yellowstone Lake set at so great a height in a range of rugged mountains strikes one with wonder and surprise. This lovely lake is twenty-five miles in length by fifteen in width, and lies at an altitude of nearly eight thousand feet above the ocean.. It is the highest body of water in North America; and Lieut. Doane, in alluding to this fact, if I remember rightly, writes as follows: “Place Mount Washington— the pride of New England—with its base on a sea-level—at the bottom of this lake, and the bright waters of the latter would roll their crystal wavelets more than two thousand feet above its summit.” This great inland and upland sea was once known to adventurous frontiersmen as “ Two Ocean Lake,” from the belief that in it both the Yellowstone and Snake Rivers had their source; and glancingat the map one sees that this is very nearly the case. Almost at the extreme end of a promontory extending two miles out into the lake rises a tiny rivulet whose waters flow into the Pacific Ocean. The profoundest depth has never been reached —six hundred fathoms of line having been let out without the lead touching bottom; the average depth, however, according to soundings made by Capt. Stevenson, is three hundred feet.
As I before remarked, our camp was situated in a shady grove of pines on the northern baiik of the.lake, just where the river emerges from the latter; and a more beautiful spot I have not seen in the Rocky Mountains. If we had had a plentiful supply of provisions, not one of our party but would have been willing and anxious to remain a month— so charmed were we all by the loveliness of the place, and the delights and pleasures of our nomadic life.
In Nature’s scenic presentments nothing can be imagined more transcendingly beautiful than the perfect outlines of this broad sheet of jewelled water. In the wondrous sunset glories, when the winds are hidden in some mountain gorge, or gone to sleep in piney solitudes, the crystal water is the home of the most glorious reflections. The great masses of floating color in the evening sky—shadowy thoughts of an Eternal Beauty—lie softly on its waveless surface; and in their brightly-changing, opalescent tints form an embodiment of splendor such as the most brilliant imagination could never conceive. This scene of enchantment was presented the two evenings we were encamped on the lovely banks, and on both occasions our enthusiasm was wrought up to its highest pitch. We stood watching the colors sinking slowly into the watery deep—the gorgeous purple tints beingdrawnfromthedarkening waves up on the mountain slopes—and turned not away until the burnished peaks of the Three Titans were but little specks of gold in the evening sky, and the shadowy waters unable to catch their beauty. The delights and pleasures of those two days are impossible of description; and while in memory’s picture-gallery many startling wonders stand out boldly in their brilliant coloring, the softened tints of our lake experience form in their beauty the gem of the collection.
Aside from considering the Yellowstone Lake in its scenic loveliness, many wonderful phenomena lie scattered near its pebbly beach, and some even arising far out in its waters. But, much to our regret, while we remained within sight and bearing of the wonders we had no craft which would enable us to cross to the eastern shore and gratify our curiosity by a near approach. “Steamboat Springs”—
four miles distant from our camp—was the most prominent group, and it is the only one I shall mention, as the slim account I could give of many others in quoting from memory would be rather uninteresting. These springsare situated on the shores of a little bay, and the numerous columns of vapor constantly arising over the tree-tops^ from1 a distant point of view, present the appearance of a number of vessels getting up steam preparatory to departure. We almost expected to see the clear waters dashed from the prow of some graceful steamer, as she curved into sight round the wooded point, and to hear the shrill whistle' borne by the breeze over the crisp-curling waves. Anti; strange as it may seem, in this last we were not disapi pointed. Every twelve hours, from out that mysterious: point a prolonged whistle floated over the waters and woke the echoes of that wild solitude with its hoarse bass note. It is hard to convey an idea of the strange sensations produced by that civilized sound in the midst of those wild surroundings. During the fifteen minutes of its continuance there was a breathless stillness in the camp—even the horses and mules pricked up their ears and neglected the juicy grassat their feet until the last faint reverberations had died awayin the pine-covered mountains. The springs receive their name from this curious exhibition of; their power, and the noise is said to be produced by a periodical jet of steam rushing with great force through a contracted opening. In their neighborhood several boiling springs have built for themselves craters out in the lake, above the surface of the water; and a person standing oubne of these cones may catch trout—and, without taking them off the hook, plunge them into the hot water, from out of which they will come nicely cooked in a few minutes. Worcestershire and Egg Sauce, nicely seasoned, are not placed within reaching distance—but then these are slight drawbacks; the egg sauce could be conveniently obtained at certain times by appropriating the nests of ducks or mountain grouse, but I know of no wild-fowl in that-coun-try that could furnish the ingredients of Worcestershire. But lest any of you, my friends, may have an idea that an epicurean style of living is too easily obtainable, near Yellowstone Lake, I will here state a curious fact in connection with the fish in its waters. The trout in the lower Yellowstone River have been famous for their fine delicate flavor since first their existence was discovered. |lelow the Grand Falls they are plump, fat, and in a healthy condition ; while above, and in the lake, they have a peculiar disease which renders them unfit for food. They'are infected with internal living parasites, which even penetrate the flesh nearly to the outside skin—and it is not only a few that are thus affected, but aU and everyone in the waters, that are literally thronged with their numbers. They are the most beautiful fish I have ever seen—their bodies being of a bright solferino color and brilliantly spotted; but they are thin, and their flesh Jacks the solidity of the'lower trout. Another singular fact is that they are all of the same size. The soldiers of our party, standing on the shore of the lake, caught numbers', as fast as they could throw in their lines, and not one varied an inch from a length of twenty-two or twenty-four inches.	,
From this it appears evident that on account of their . multitude they devour all the small fry before they can attain a sufficient growth to render them safe from the vor- . acity of their elders. At all events no smaller fish than ' those I have mentioned have been taken from the lake. No tenable theory has yet been advanced by ichthyologists -in relation to the strange disease affecting the piscatorial life of Yellowstone Lake, and the singular fact yet remains ' a mystery to scientists as well as to myself However,
282
THE SCHOLASTIC.
scientific speculations as to the “ whys” and “wherefores” will not he intruded here. ...	.	.
When seated round the camp fire the first night, our guide informed our feminine companions that they were the first ladies who had ever visited the lovely shores of that gem of watery beauty, “Two Ocean Lake”—and during the rest of the trip we had to accord'them the consideration this honor demanded. In the cool, quiet evenings of those two peaceful days we used to amuse ourselves on the pebbly beach gathering a collection of ‘ mementoes ’ to show to distant friends on our return to civilizition, and great was the cry of delight when an “alaska diamond” of large size, or delicately-tinted agates and fragments of ab-sidian were found in the glittering sands. When tired, we would recline on the branches of some low-spreading cedar, inhaling the delightful aroma arising from the crushed boughs, and watch the long slow flight of the large white birds as they flapped their great wings and lazily sailed over to “Pelican’s Roost”—or breathlessly listen to the prolonged deep whistle of “Steamboat Springs” coming over the sound-softening waters, and to the wild, weird note of the “Trumpeter Swan” sailing above in the darkening heavens. And when the faint breathing nightbreeze, coming from glacier-like gorges in far-distant mountains, would float over the shadowy lake, we would go to the tents and in bright dreams forget the darkness and gloom of the night.	’	’
.	.	[to be continued.]
■ Hepaticas on Palm Sunday.
BY ELIZA ALLEN STARR.
Brave little wildling, herald of the Spring!	’
’ Birst of the beauteous tribes that soon will troop, .Singly, in pairs, or in a joyous group, -
O’er sunny slope or sheltered bank; or cling, By their slight fibres, where the bluebird’s wing
Alone can visit them with graceful swoop.
The wise man pauses on his walk, to stoop
Above your purple blossoms: for you bring
' To his worn cheek a pleased and gentle smile ;	’
Still saying softly to himself, the while:
How things most tender are the first .to rise
Brom wintry sleep; thus taking by surprise
The sturdy oaks! Hearts, too, shy without guile, ■	Wing, often, boldest flight towards yonder pathless skies!
Light-footed herald! not of Spring alone, ■ But of the Baschal joys. To day, with psalms .
And glad hosannas, we have borne our palms:	’
On Friday ’we shall hear the thirsty moan,	'
’ Hear the strong death-cry at the hour of None
Of Him who through His outstretched, gracious' arms . Distils choice unctions and all-healing balms,
With Blood which can for world-wide sin atone. ' .	. Then will the Easter-bells exulting chime,
Beal answering peal, to hail the joyful time.
But you have come a little while before,	.
As if in haste Christ’s mercy to implore.
Shyly, In purple garb, the bank you climb,	-
With Magdalene to kiss His feet; with her adore. .
St. Mast’s, Palm Sunday, March 29,1874.	■
’	— From Ave Hlaria.
.Everybody complains of the badness of his memory, but nobody of his judgment.	.
A very tedious fellow annoyed Douglas Jerrold very much-by his everlasting long stories, and on one occasion he related having heard a song by which he was quite carried away. Jerrold, looking around, asked if any one present could sing that song.	.
1
The Unity of God. amon the Pagans.
.	AN ESSAY, BY M. B. B.
Part II.—Proof of the Unity of God from a Christian Stand-point.
Leaving now the pagan world convinced that our ancestors the Gentiles had a knowledge, though vague and imperfect, of the true God, and that polytheism among them was not so grossly unreasonable as it is generally represented to have been, I shall now add, by. way of complement to what has been thus far provedin respect to the pagans, the Christian philosophers’demonstration of the Unity.of God.	.
Passing over those proofs which are. based upon the Sacred Scriptures and the authoritative definitions by the Church,- inasmuch as they belong specially to the province of the theologian, I shall at once unfold the proofs which come within the province of the philosopher, viz.: those based upon reason.
Besides the proof based upon the universal persuasion of men, who at. all times and in all places believed in one only Supreme God, there is another, based upon the very nature of things, and which appears to me so clear and conclusive that I shall.rest satisfied for the present with its development.
All philosophers of any reputation, whether Christian or pagan, admit that there is and must be an eternal substance endowed with intelligence, and that this intelligent substance is the Author of the universe. Reason so clearly demands this admission, as the necessary basis of all real existence, that it requires no special proof to establish its truth; for without such a Being the existence of the universe . could be explained only by supposing either that nothingness developed itself into reality by its own power, or that there existed and still exists an infinite series of active causes producing one another successively and.from all eternity—both of which suppositions are evidently absurd. Hence there must be an eternal, self-existing and intelligent Being who is the first cause of all things. "This Being the Christian philosopher denominates the Necessary Being-, first, because His existence is necessarily independent of all individual will, even of His own, since it must of necessity precede the exercise of will, as a condition of that exer- . cise; secondly, because this Being cannot be conceived as not existing, without destroying the very possibility of all reality; and thirdly, because the existence cf this Being is necessary as a basis of all reality and of the existence of all other beings. Now if we can show that this Being is not only necessary but also infinite, and that two such beings cannot possibly exist, we shall have demonstrated the Unity of God, since the term God is but another name for the Necessary Being.	•
.First, the Necessary Being is necessarily infinite; for He is necessarily prior to all existences, since all things depend on Him for their individual existence. Hence He could not have received His being from any other, and therefore must possess, in Himself, the principle or reason of His own existence. Now such a Being must, by his very nature, be infinite; for if He -were not infinite He would be finite, or limited; and if limited, the limitation would come either from another being, distinct from Himself, or from His own individual will, or finally from the nature of His beinv. But from none of these sources can a limitation of the Necessary Being arise. -	■
(1.) No limitation'of th is Being can come from another being, distinct from Himself; for since He a Necessary Being, having in Himself the principle or reason of His own existence, and as all other beings depend on Him not only for their existence but also for the manner of their existence, He is necessarily .pridr to all other beingsand absolutely independent of them. Therefore He cannot be limited by any other. (2) Nor can He be limited by His own individual-will. For the essence or nature of a being cannot possibly depend on the will of that being, since he must first &e before he can will, and the very fact of bein<>-supposes the actual presence of all that is essential to that particular being; nor does it prove anything to say that in

THE SCHOLASTIC.
283
I'
*
>
the Necessary Being existence and will necessarily coexist, since Heis from all eternity; for although this is true in the ontological order, that is, so far as actual existence is concerned, still in the logical order, that is, so far as cause and effect, antecedent and consequent, are concerned, being or real existence must necessarily precede activity, and hence the Necessary Being must have existed prior to the exercise of His will.
Moreover, since a being does not really exist until all the essential attributes, or those which constitute the being what he is, are actually united, if the nature of the Necessary Being depended on His own will, then it could be truly said that He not only existed in and by Himself, but that He caused Himself, which would be absurd, since He, being necessary, must have existed from all eternity and therefore was never caused. Besides, if we were to admit that He by an act of His own will determined the manner of His own existence, we would then be forced to admit one of these two absurdities, viz., either that He existed prior to His actual existence, or that His will, at least, existed prior to His individual and substantial existence. But as reason will not allow us to admit either of these, we are forced to conclude that the Necessary Being cannot be limited by His own will.
(3.) Finally, He cannot be limited in virtue of His own nature; for from the fact that He exists necessarily, it follows that all His attributes are necessary attributes, and this necessarily requires that He be not limited at all. This reason for denying all limitation of the Necessary Being, by virtue of His own nature, requires proof, and here it is:
(1.) From the fact that a being exists necessarily, it follows that all his attributes are likewise necessary. For if they were not necessary, they would be contingent; and if contingent, they must have had a beginning; that, is they must have been communicated to that being after he began to exist, either by himself or by some other being distinct from himself. But neither case is possible in reference to the Necessary Being. In the first place new attributes could not have been communicated by Himself, because in communicating them He would act as a cause. But to act as a cause He should possess already whatever is positive in the attributes thus communicated, since there can be nothing positive in the effect which did not previously exist in the cause. Therefore if the Necessary Being could communicate to Himself new attributes, He would possess and not possess these attributes at the same time. He would possess them, since He would act as a cause in communicating them to Himself; and He would not possess them since, in the hypothesis, they were something new, superadded to that which already existed. Therefore the Necessary Being cannot communicate to Himself new attributes. In the second place, no new attributes can be communicated to the Necessary Being by any other being. For, as we have already seen, all other beings depend on the Necessary Being, as the effect depends upon the cause. Therefore, whatever any other being possesses, was derived from the Necessary Being. Now, since no being can give to another that which he does not possess himself, and since no other being possessed nr possesses anything except what he received from the Necessary Being, it follows that this Being possessed all that is positive and real in all other beings, even before they possessed it themselves, and therefore that no other being can communicate anything new to the Necessary Being. Consequently this Being can acquire no new attributes whatever, and therefore whatever attributes He does possess are, by the very fact, necessary, and belong to His essence.	;
(2.) From the fact that all the attributes-of the Necessary Being are themselves necessary.it follows that no limitation of tins Being is possible, and, therefore, that He is infinite. For, since all His attributes are necessary or essential, if He were limited, limitation or finitude would be an essential attribute of His being. Now limitation cannot be an essential attribute of the Necessary Being; for an essential attribute is one whose, denial involves a contradiction, and destroys the idea of the being to which it belongs, as such a being ; but the denial of limitation in the Necessary Being does not involve a contradiction, nor destroy the idea of such a Being. On the contrary the denial of finitude, or, what is the same, the affirmation of infinitude, as belong
ing to Him, is far more in keeping with our idea of a Necessary, eternal and self-existing Being, and with the common sense of all men of every age. It does not involve any contradiction; for, to constitute a contradiction, it would be required that the fact asserted be opposed either to some principle of reason or to some known fact, as, for instance, if one were to assert that a contingent being was infinite, or that a part of any thing was greater than the whole thing; but to affirm that a Being self-existing, eternal and necessary—a Being who is the basis of all reality, is infinite, or possesses all reality in an unlimited degree, is not and cannot be opposed to any principle of reason, or to ' any known fact; therefore there is not and cannot be a contradiction in the case. It does not destroy our idea of the Necessary Being, but is rather in accordance withit; for though the finite mind cannot grasp the full extent of the infinite, there is still connected with the thought of the Necessary Being a sense of incomprehensible immensity, which in a manner bewilders the mind and forces it to declare that that Being is limitless—infinite.	,
It follows from all this that limitation is not and cannot be an essential attribute of the Necessary Being; and furthermore that, since all His attributes are essential, limitation cannot be one of His attributes at all. But if limitation is not one of His attributes, then He is not limited, and if not limited He is necessarily unlimited, or infinite. Therefore the Necessary Being is necessarily infinite.
Now, unquestionably, there can be but one Infinite Being, as may be easily shown both from the attribute necessary and from that of infinite. (1.) There cannot be two necessary beings, for the existence of one is quite sufficient to account for being as the basis of all reality and for all existences; and hence, as one is sufficient, two cannot be necessary. Indeed to suppose two necessary beings actually existing would involve a contradiction, and destroy the idea of the Necessary Being altogether; for since the Necessary Being is one on whom all other beings depend for their existence, these two Necessary Beings would mutually depend on each other for their very existence, and thus mutually destroy each other as necessary beings.-
(2.) There cannot be two infinite beings; for the Infinite Being is one who contains in Himself all that is real and positive in actually existing and even possible- beings. Now to suppose two distinct beings each of which is infinite, would be to suppose two beings each of which contains separately all that is real and positive in actual and possible existences, and, therefore, beings who would mutually contain each other, and who, consequently, could not possibly be distinct beings. This might at first sight appear to militate against the doctrine of the Trinity, but such is not the case; for when I speak of distinct infinite beings, I of course speak of a substantial distinction and not of a distinction of persons in the same essence. Therefore, as two infinites are impossible as beings substantially distinct . from each other, and as but one Necessary Being is possible, it follows necessarily that there can be but one God, and thus the Unity of God is demonstrated from reason.
We clip the following from The Maritime Catholic, published in Halifax, N. S:	.	- .	.	_
As a general rule people give names without knowing or carl ing what they signify. For the amusement of curiosity hunters, here is a small list of masculine names, with their definitions:
George,—“ Husbandman.”	•	.
Albert,—“Nobly bright.”	•	- .
Benjamin,—“ The son of the right hand.”	’ .■
Charles,—“ Strong and valiant?’	’ .
Richard,—“ Great heart.”	' :
Herbert,—“ Glory of the army.” .	•	- ;
William,—“ Helmet of resolution.”
Frederick,—“Richpeace.”	. - -
Hugh,—“ High, lofty.”
Isaac,—“Laughter.”	-
Patrick,—“Nobleman.”	-
Robert,—“ Famous in council.”	.
Edward,—“ A truth-keeper.”	_	.
Edwin,—“ Wins all hearts.”	• •	-
Joseph,—“He trusts in God.”	. .
Gilbert,—“ Light of many.”
Samuel,—“Called of God, answer of prayer.”
Frank,—“ Indomitable, self-willed.” .
Henry,—“ A hero.”
Thomas,—“A sun God.”
John,—“ Gracious in the sight of. the Lord.”. -	-
284
THE SCHOLASTIC.
T&B ScholastiD*
Published every Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TBBM8:
One year....................................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students' Office.
Notice to Contributors.
Ok account of the great pressure of business in the office we notify all who have anything for publication in the Scholastic to have it in the office by Monday evening or Tuesday morning. Anything presented later runs the risk of being postponed one week.
Signed by the Editob.
Very Rev. Father Genebal is still in Texas.
Rev. Fatheb John Lauth is expected soon from Europe.
One of the kindest and most accommodating conductors we ever met is Mr. L. Hoyp, on the South Bend division of M.C.R.W.
Rev. Father O’Mahoney, C. S. C., succeeds Rev. Father Spillard, in the pastorship of St. Patrick’s Congregation, South Bend.
’ Gbeith’s Grand Vocal and Instrumental Mass will, we understand, be sung by the Choir to-morrow. This is a very difficult composition, but under the efficient leadership of Br. Leopold it promises, as heretofore, to be a success.
Major R. C. Walker, Paymaster U. S. A., of Montana, visited St. Mary’s and Notre Dame to see his children. It was quite a surprise to us to see Major Walker so far East as Notre Dame, knowing as we do how much he prefers the West. The pleasure of seeing him however is in no ways abated by his enthusiastic praise of Montana.
- We take from a Chicago daily the following notice of our old friend’s, P. L. G.’s, establishment on Van Buren, 100, near the L. S. & M. S. Passenger House:
“P. L. Garrity now has the largest business on Van Buren street, and he has done more to bring business into that street than all property-owners combined. Why don’t some man offer him a good store on some street where there is no trade, just for the benefit of the property? Long live Garrity, the candy man.”
Rev. Father Spillard, C. S. C., who for more than two years faithfully and zealously discharged the arduous duties of pastor of St. Patrick’s congregation, South Bend, was relieved of his duties on account of ill health, and is now in Austin, Texas, whence we hope he will soon return to us robust in health, and as vigorous in mind as he always has been even in bad health. The members of the congregation whom he had attended for so long a time in sickness as well as in good health, with patient, gentle manners, and
zealous assiduousness, deeply regret their loss, and they gave him on the eve of his departure proofs of their attachment, and of their great desire of his speedy return.
We call the attention of the Students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, and the friends and visitors to both Institutions, to arrangements made with the Michigan Central railroad, whereby tickets, to Niles, Chicago, Detroit, Buffalo, Albany, New York, Boston, and to all points on the Michigan Central Railroad, can be procured at our office here. As the Michigan Central Road passes through our grounds, visitors will find it convenient to procure tickets and take the cars without leaving the premises.
Three regular trains leave St. Mary’s Station daily connecting at Niles with trains to all points on the road.
The Missa Brevis of Gustave Bergmann was admirably rendered by the Choir last Sunday. This Mass has become a general favorite at Notre Dame; and although not so diffi cult as, and not at all to be compared with, Greith’s celebrated Mass, Father Witt’s Missa Sanda Lucia or Stehle’s Prize Mass “Salve Regina,” all of which we have heard with much pleasure and edification lately, still it has passages of harmony occurring through it that are really inspiring—as, for instance, m the Credo, where the high notes of the bass blend with the tenor in such a manner as to leave nothing distinctively perceptible of either—pleasing the ear and touching the heart with a continuous strain of grand and solemn harmony really becoming the sacred precincts of the church and the solemnity of the Holy Mysteries. Bergmann’s Missa Brevis is we believe in the category of those which' have not yet received the sanction of the Cecilia Society, probably on account of the solos occurring in it as originally written, but the score given in the College church here has had these objectionable features expunged, and its present arrangement is such as to make it admirably accord with the true spirit of church music as defined by-the ritual and so admirably carried out by the Cecilians.	.
Chings cf Time on the Chicago and Alton Bailrcad.
By reference to new time card in our advertising columns it will be seen that a change of time takes place to-day on this popular route. A fast express train for Kansas City and Denver will leave daily (except Sunday), at 1 P. M., and make four hours faster time than heretofore. Elegant reclining-seat palace cars, as comfortable as sleeping cars, and Pullman palace sleeping cars, will run on this train to Kansas City without change. The St. Louis and Texas fast express, which leaves at 9:45 P. M. daily, will connect with the “ Iron Mountain route ” at St. Louis, and make eight hours faster time to Galveston than any other route and twenty-four hours faster than via New Orleans.
Publications.
The Catholic World, For May,
Has the following table of contents: I. The Coming Transit of Venus; H. The Veil Withdrawn; HI. The Principles of Real Being; TV. The Butterfly (Poetry); V. The Farm of Muiceron; VI. Fragment of Early English Poetry; VH. Self-Education; VIH. On the Wing; IX. There.was no Room for Them in the Inn; X. Antar and
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Zara (Poetry); XI. F. Louage’s Philosophy; XII. Easter (Poetry); XIII. Grapes and Thorns; XIV. Dante Gabriel Rosetti; XV. For Ever (Poetry); XVI. Visit to an Artist’s Studio; XVII. Visions, (Poetry); XVIII. A Word for Women; XIX. New Publications.
Rev. P. P. Cooney’s Lecture Tuesday evening, at the Opera House, was highly successful. ■ The attendance was large, and the address erudite and interesting.— South Bend Tribune.
Subscriptions to the New Tabernacle.
- ■ [continued]
Hugh Sweeney, Emsworth, Pa.,............... §10	00
E.	S. Dellone, Harrisburg, Pa.,............. 10	00
Edward Casey, Notre Dame, Indiana...........  3	00
F.	X. Mesner, Formosa, Ont., Canada.......... 3	00
A. Mesner, Formosa, Ont., Canada,............ 3	00
[to be continued ]
Roll of Honor.	‘
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1874.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. ■
M. Allen, J. Abbott, J. Andre, J. Brown, W. Ball, C. Bowman, 3. Berry, V. Baca, M. Bastarache, O. Corcoran, J. Callery, J. Caren, M. Caldwell, H. Cassidy, J. Crnmmey, G. Crnmmey, T. Cashin, E. Dunn, H. Dehner, F. Devoto, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, B. Euans, J. Egan, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, 3. Girard, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, E. Graves, C. Hess, A. Horne, J. Hogan, R. Hutchings, J. Handley, M. Jeffreys, E. Kimm, 3. Kennedy, M. Keeler, J. F. Kelly, P. Lilly, J. Luby, J; Mullen, J. McManus, F. Mathews, B. McGinnis, T. McGinnis, J. McDermott, M. McCullough, E. McSweeney, T. Murphy, E. Monohan, A. Mooney, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin, P: McDonald, J. Ney, F. O’Brien, J. O’Brien, P. O’Meara, P. O’Mahony, T. O’Mahony, J Ott, M. Proctor, J. F. Rudge, 3. Rudge, G. Rudge, J. Roflnot, G.Roulhac, C. Ruger, C. Spears, F. Scrafford, P. Skahill, S. Studebaker, J. Wolfe, C. Walter, L. Watson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
B. J. Baca, J. F. Beegan, W. P. Breen, J. Buchanan, L. P. Best, M. Burge, A. Crunkilton, J. Cullen, I. Chatterton, J. Cohen, J. Dalley, J. Delvecchio, J. Doyle, J. Ewing, F. Ewing, W. Green, G. J. Gross, E. Grambling, J. C. Golsen, O. Gove, D. Gorman, C. Hake, M. J. Kinsella, S. Kennedy, J. Keilty, J. Kinley, C. A. Lewes, B. Le Fevre, G. McNulty, J. D. McIntyre, T. McNamara, P. McBride, N. J. Mooney, W. Meyers, J. E. Marks, F. Miller, N. Chauncey, P. Moran, D. J. O.’Connell, J. O’Connor, C. Peltier, H. Quan, E. L. Ratigan, F. Stoppenbach, L. Smith, J. Smith, R. Sobey, J.-F. Soule, W. Schulthies, T. Solon, F. Tbalmann, R. West, R. Walker, E. J. Wood, F. Weisen-burger, H. Zuber.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
M. McAuliffe, F. Carlin, T. Hooley, H. Canoll, C. Campeau, F. Campeau, I. O’Meara, E. Cleary, H. Middleton, L. Goldsmith, A. West, F. Shultz, C. Clarke. •
.	Class Honors.
WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1874.
COLLEGIATE DEPARTMENT.	•
Senior Class^-C. Berdel, W. Clarke, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, T. Dailey, L. Hayes, H. Hayes, D. Maloney, R. Staley, H. Walker, T. White.
Junior Class—T. Grier, T. Murphy, E. McLaughlin, B. Euans, J. Gillen, A. J. Moony, P. O’Mahony.
■ Law Class—M. Keeley, E. McSweeney, B. McGinnis, J. Ney, T. O’Mahony, P. O’Meara.,
Anatomy and Medicine Class—C. Freese, J. Van Dusen, C. Villanenve.	.
Sophomore Class—M. Bastarache, J. Caren, F. Devoto, E.
Graves, T.‘Gallagher, J. E. Hogan, E. S. Monahan, C. Proctor, C. Walter.
Freshman Class—J. Brown, W. Breen, G. Crnmmey, H. Cassidy, H. Dehner.
AH Around.
It is gettin’ ’ot 1
We have heard rumors of an’attack.
How do you like the ten-men game?
Commencement time is much spoken of.
The after supper recreation is greatly enjoyed.
The “Star of the East” have been improving th ply grounds.	'	. '
The Thespians’ decorations in Washington Hall have been removed.
The various boating crews are practicing for the long pull in June. They expect to race three times the length of the lake.
John Hagerty, Esq., of the firm of Hagerty & Tong, is nominated as the People’s candidate for City Judge of South Bend.
John A. Thimble, a student of last year, is a candidate on the Republican ticket for County Surveyor of Warren County, Indiana. He has our best wishes. "
Numerous fishermen may be seen around the lakes on almost any day of the week. Some are veiy successful; while others try in vain...
The Botanical Garden is just beginning to assume its most beautiful aspect. This is attributable principally to the taste of Father Carrier and care of Bro. Simon.
Has it been accurately ascertained that the flower which Father Vagnier discovered was not an artificial one, lost by some one of the fair inmates of St. Mary’s ? [It has]
We are glad to learn that the Scientific Society has reorganized, with Father Carrier still at its head. This Society has always occupied the foremost rank of our ~ College societies, and we are sure it will not be behind this year.
“ Square up ” is an invitation which most sensitive persons would accept without delay; but when it comes from ! a somniloquist it is very likely to be declined, and especially when one sees the hostile demonstrations made , by the hospitable one.	.
We have time and again been called “ fly-catcher ” by numerous parties. Now we would like to inform our numerous friends, and others, too, that we are no relation whatever to the “fly-catcher” of last year, and we do not propose to go into the business of catchingflys for anyone.
The Printing-Office was completely besieged last Saturday afternoon by the Philopatrian and Columbian Societies waiting for the issue of the Scholastic. They had just been satisfying the “inner man” by way of a lunch, and at the time of the excitement were seeking something of a higher stamp—something to puff them up.	•
Society Reports.
THE CHORAL UNION.
Mr. Editor:—For the benefit of “Musicus” and other friends, and the “music-loving people” in general, we hasten to assure him and them that there is a Correspond-
286
THE SCHOLASTIC.
,jng Secretary of the Choral Union, and that he will “let the anxious public hear” of the doings of said society.
Our society was organized in the month of February. The house was called to order, Rev. Father Lemounier presiding. He explained the object of the meeting, which was to organize a society for the cultivation of vocal music. He spoke of the value and necessity of vocal music as an accomplishment, and of the pleasure and advantages to be derived from it. At the close of his remarks the election of officers was proceeded to, which resulted as follows:
Director—Rev. Mr. Henrion.	'
President—Chas. A. Berdel.	X
Vice President—V. J. McLaughlin.
Monitor—W. Ohlen.
Corresponding Secretary, Sr.—R. W. Staley. Corresponding Secretary, Jr.—J. Campbell. Censor—F. Devoto.
Recording Secretary—H. W. Walker.
Treasurer, Sr.—T. Cashin.
, Treasurer, Jr.—G. J. Gross.
A committee was then appointed to draft a Const itution and By-Laws, after which the meeting, on motion, ad journed.
• Our energetic Director has shown his-good taste in the selection of suitable music, and at the first opportunity we shall make our debut. We are not a boastful organization, and will therefore remain silent in regard to the talent which everyone knows—or at least should know—is abundant among us. We prefer, however, to let others, “ Musicus,” for instance, aud the “music loving people,” sing our praises. And when we have risen above the musical horizon and appeared to the “anxious public” as a star of the first magnitude, we trust that others more competent than your humble servant will undertake to place before the public the merits of our young but thriving society. We hope, that for the present, “Musicus” and other friends will be satisfied with this short notice. More anon, from	The Corresponding Secretary.
ST. CECILIA PHILOMATHEAN ASSOCIATION.
The 33rd regular meeting was held April 13th. At this meeting the debate, “ Resolved, That Public Amusements are Beneficial to Society,” took place. The disputants on the affirmative were as follows: N. J. Mooney, J. McHugh, W. Meyer, E. L. Ratigan, M. Burge; on the negative, C. Furer,’ B. Baca, J. Soule, J. Cullen, D. O'Connell. The debate was carried on in a very animated manner. The decision, according to the arguments produced, was given by the President in favor of the affirmative.
The 34th regular meeting took place April 20th. The following members deserve special mention for declamations: J. Btegan, J. McHugh, W. Breen, J. Campbell, D. O’Connell, B. J. Baca, J. Marks, C. Nichols, J. Ewing, A. Schmidt, C. O’Connor, and J. F. Soule. This over, Mr. J. McHugh arose and read a well-written criticism on the 32d meeting. J. D. O’Hara presented himself for membership, and after having resid a very nice composition on “The Progress of Chicago,” and delivered an animated declamation, was unanimously elected. Rev. Father Lemunnier was present at this meeting, and expressed himself highly delighted with the conduct and progress of the members, etc.	B. Le Fevre, Cor. Sec'y.
ST. STANISLAUS PHILOPATRIAN ASSOCIATION.
The 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th meetings were held March 14th, 22d, 29th, April 6th, 12th and 19th respectively. At these meetings the principal exercises were the reading of compositions or delivering declamations. The following members are deserving of mention: F. J. Weisenburger, J. McIntyre, R. Downey, T. McNamara, H. Faxon, F. Claffey, H. Quan, P. Gallagher, R. West, R. Walker, J. Keilty-, W. Darst, P. Daly, A. H. Mitchell and J. P. Quin. Masters J. Delvecchio, E. Riopelle and H. Zuber presented themselves for membership aud were elected. Bro. Paul, C. S. C., was unanimously elected an honorary member. The remaining time at the meetings was taken up in preparing for the Exhibition.
.	.	■ M. J. Kinsella, Cor. Sec'y.
Baseball.
Beyond all doubt one of the best games of baseball ever played at Notre Dame came off on the 19th inst., between the Star of the East and'a selected ten." It was the first ten-men game played here, and hence it was the occasion of intense excitement. There were nearly three hundred spectators witnessing the game. It was played in about two hours, and was a tight game. The Star of the East, as will be seen from the score given below, “ Chicagoed ” the picked nine the first four innings: but the latter (many of them out of practice) as soon as they got their hands in, went to work and made .up for lost time, and tallies, too. Both nines played well, and were able for each other. The Champions were defeated, however.
We append, for the satisfaction of all concerned, the
•	• Score":
Selected Ten. •
O. | R.
Star of the East.
O’Day, p..............
O’Connor, c...........
McGinnis, 3d b........
Devoto, 1. f..........
Hutchings, 2d b.......
Ball, r. s. s.........
Monahan, s. s.........
Spears, r. f..........
Gillen, If............
Tong, 1st b...........
Total: ...........
Roberts, c.............
W. Dodge, cl f.........
L. Hayes, r.s.s........
H. Hayes, 1st b........
Shiels, 3d b...........
Dunne, 1. f............
Kreichgauer, r. f......
H. Clarke, 2nd b.......
Dwyer, p...............
W. Clarke, s. s.........
3 5
3
3
2 5
2 2
2
3
1 0
1
2
2 0
2 2
2 q
30 13
Total:................ 30	14
INNINGS:
Star of the East:..	2	2	1	0	1	2	0	1	4	0	—13
Sdected Ten:		0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	3	3	—14
Umpire—C. Campeau. Time of game—Two hours.
Cassiopeia.
STAR OE THE WEST, B. B. C.
Mr. Editor:—If the construction of the “All Around Man’s” eyes prevents him from seeing stars through a telescope, we are sorry, but it is not our fault. Any person that cannot see the Star of the West must not be able to see three inches beyond his nose. We have the biggest boy in the Junior Department in our club,—and not only that, we have several others so big that ten of them are lots on any table. I don’t know how it is iu the Seniors’, but if he were in the Juniors and say he could not see us, we would tell him he ought to “ soak.”_ Last week we played a picked nine, and at the close of the game we were fifteen ahead; now we think that the “ All-Arouud Man ” took an active part in a club that played the Star of the East and only beat them one, and that we considered a "scratch”; and perhaps they cannot even do as well as that again.
.Nathan Dryfoos, Sec’y.
Amor Scieatia ess haac Stuiers luducit.
To promulge to our sympathizing readers what the members of a prominent class in this Institution are required to learn, we beg permission to copy for their edification a short paragraph selected at random from one of their textbooks. We may. premise that said paragraph. refers to , the development of a fowl in the egg on the second day of incubation.
“ The part of the blastoderm which lies external to the dorsal laminte forms the ventral lamina;; and these bend downward and inward, at a short distance on either side of the dorsal tube, to become the walls of a ventral, or visceral, tube. The ventral lamina; carry the epiblast ou their outer surfaces, and the hypoblast on their inner surfaces, aud thus, in most cases, tend to constrict off the central from the peripheral portions of the blastoderm. The latter, extending, over’the yelk, encloses it in a kind of bag.” -While these changes are occurring, the mesoblast splits, throughout the regions of the thorax and abdomen, from its ventral margin, nearly up to the notochord (which has been developed, in the meanwhile, by histological differentiation of the axial indifferent tissue, immediately under
T HE SCHOLASTIC.
287*
the floor of the primitive groove)4^ into two lamellae. One of these, the visceral lamellae, remains closely adherent to the hypoblast, forming with it the splanchnopleure, and eventually becomes the proper wall of the enteric canal; while the other, the parietal lamella, follows the epiblast, forming with it the somatopleure, which is converted into the parities of the thorax and abdomen. The point of the middle line of the abdomen a^ which the somatopleures eventually unite, is called the umbilicus. The walls of the cavity formed by the sundering of the anterior and posterior segments of the ventral lamina; acquire an epithelial lining, and become the great pleuroperitoneal membrane.” In speaking of the development of the brain, at a little later stage of incubation: “As has been stated, no proto-vertebrte appear on the floor of the skull; but when chondrification takes place, it extends continuously forward, on-each side of the notochord, and usually invests the anterior termination of that body, more or less completely, as a basilar plate. In front of the fossa, the trabe-culse terminate in a broad plate, usually bifurcated in the ethmouomerine plate.f The median lobe, which remains as the representative of the greater part of the original anterior cerebral prosencephala* is the vesicle of the thala-mencephalon. ‘
Isn’t this beautifully lucid? But if you, unfortunate readers, “can’t see it,” we can only pity your ignorance, and will refer you, for further elucidation, to the Professor himself who knows all about fowls in the egg and out of the egg.	.	w
It is needless to remark that the Class refered to is
’	Scientific.
*See Sanderson’s Handworterbuch der Anatomie, ii, 398.
+ Sec Meckle. . . 2te Abtheilung, p. 191.	-
j Gilmore’s Anatomy Reptilium et Avium.-
SAINT MAST’S ACADEMT.
cesco, L. Tinsley, M. Kengel, M. Bell, E. Ives, M: Cummings, A. Minton, K. Casey, E. Ross, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, L. Lilly, C. Miller, L. and B. Johnson, K. Graham, M. O’Mahony, H. Miller, F. Gunzert, J. Haney, M. Poquette,M. Klotz, C. Sottrup, M. Sheil, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, A. Sweeney, J. Adams.	-
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH CLASSES.
Graduating Class—Misses West, Dragoo, Walker, Kearney, Gross, Spier, Black, Kiel, Brown, Langdon, Clarke. .
1st Sr. Class—Misses Curtin, Lloyd," J. Kearney, Ball, Ritchie, Letourneau, Haggerty, Boyce, Walker. _ '
2nd Sr. Class—Misses Phillips, Bradford, Walton, Burke, Fanning, Keeline, A. T. Clarke, Foote, Quan, Nason, Bohan M. Johnson, Denehey.
3rd Sr. Class—N. Ball, McEwen, Moore, L. Ritchie, Bell, Minton, Wyman, Keena, Roscesco, Barry, E. Ives, Cummings, F. Lloyd.	•
1st Prep. Class—Misses Gunzert, Casey, Ross, Kreigh, C. Miller, L. Johnson, Graham, Mahoney, H. Miller.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses Klotz, Sottrup, Shield, Garies,’ Quill, Haney, Murrin, Poquette, O’Connell, A. Sweeney, K. Irmiter.
junior dep’t.	•	•
E. Richardson, A. Smith, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, M. Resch, M. Carlin, K. and M. Hutchinson, H. Morehead, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, B. Wilson, M. Reynolds, M. Marlin, M -Walsh, H. Hand, M. Pritchard, E. Lang, M. Brown, J. and M. Thompson, M. Summers, M. Jackson, M. Kaeseburg, N. O’. Meara, M. A. Schultheis, J. Brown, A.'Cul!en,D. Allen, L. Germain, B. Golsen, J. McDougall, L. Walsh, E. Lappin, E.JScbnoback; A. Goewey, G. Barry, S. West, E. Simpson, R, Gallary, N. and I. Mann, C. and M. Hughes, E. McDougall, and J. Dee.	•
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN PLAIN SEWING.
M. Faxon, K. Morehead, and A. Walsh.
St. Mary’s Academy, April 21,1874.
Arrivals,
Miss Lena Walker,	Chicago, Illinois.
Mary Railton,	Chicago, Illinois.
“	A. Harris,	New York.
“	S. Harris,	New York.
The number of visitors during the past few weeks has been unusually large: Notre Dame and St. Mary’s are places of great interest to tourists who are visiting the West or East as the case may be; for it is no unusual circumstance for Californians, and New Yorkers to meet at the Academy.
At the reading of the “ Chimes ” on last Sunday evening several visitors were present. The paper was quite interesting; the lecture by Prof. Howard was alluded to in very complimentery terms. *
The allusion made by the “Chimes” to the series of lec-~ tures on “Art and Artists” by the accomplished and devoted artist, Miss E. A. Starr, was gfaqefully expressive of the high appreciation of her hearers. _
Who shall be the “May Queen?” is already a mooted question among the Seniors and Juniors of our little Republic. Popular vote will -soon decide the important question, for even, queens must be chosen on democratic principles.	.	■
’	Tabht of Son:r. /
FOR THE W-EEK ENDING APRIL IQ, 1874.
:• •' ’ ’	SENIOR DEP’t.
■ L‘. Neil, M. Kearney, A. M. Clarke, N. Gross, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L.-West, L. Black, N. Langdon, L. Dragoo, J. Walker, A. Llojd, V. Ball, L. Ritchie, M. Letourneau, E. Haggerty, J. Locke, K. Finley, A. Curtin, M. Walker, A. Keeline, N. Foote, M. Quan," G Phillips, J. Stimpson, C. Nason, E. Sweeney, E. Bohan, M. Johnson, E. Denehey, E. Dougherty, L. Arnold, S. Sweeney, R.’ Burke, L. Bradford, L. Pfeiffer, B. Wade, N. Ball, N. McEwen, F. Moore, N. Huber, L. Wyman, L. Keena, K. Ros-
GANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Stiix Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
C YYISTTD Y
FACTORY,
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.-Y---
BROKEN CANDY -	-	--	-	13 c. ‘
FINE MIXED CANDY -	-	-2Se.
CHOICE MIXED CANDY •-	- - -	- . 35e.
CARAMELS ------	'35c.
MOLASSES and CREAM CANDY	-	-	25c.
T’rojpoi'tiomitt;! y Bow Bi-icess to W liole-sale Ca'sli Buyers.
W A NTED—For Cash—Five or ten tons of Maple Sugar.
.Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door. . apl 25—tf	•	'
THE OLD. “ RELIABLE.” .	.
DWIGHT HW
- SOUTH BENO, INDIANA; 3 : -
MESSRS. KNIGHT, and MILLS having'becoine manager? of the above popular and reliable House,, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture - The travelling public . mnv rely on finding-the best accommodation. ’	!
Ladies and Gentlemen vi-iting Notre Danie and St. Marys will find here all the comforts of hot e during their stay,
JERRY KN.GUT, lprODrietor3
;	• Captain mills, J-^opnet01.3-
nor 15—if
288
THE SCHOLASTIC.
UNIVERSITY OF tK0TBE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
Tlhslnstitution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with al! the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.	„	.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	*	. * 5
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- ISO 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, -■""***■**'„?„ Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing, -	--	--	--	--	--	- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	- _ -	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 16 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra, -	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September^ th® Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. LEDEOMNIER, C.S.C.
President.
Michigan Central Railroad
Time Table.
L. S. & M. SERAIL WAY.
On and after Sunday, December 14,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
1.47 A. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 9 53: Cleveland, 2.15 p. 31.; Buffalo, 9.10 p. m.
1O.1O a. m. (No. 2), Mail, over Main and Air Lines; Arrives at Toledo, 5.10 P. a.; Cleveland, 9.50 p. 3t.
11.53 A. M. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. m.; Buffalo 4.29 A. M.
9.09 p. M. (No. 6), Atlantic'Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo, 1.25 P. si.
3.45 P. m. (No 70), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3>2C A. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.25; Chicago 6.55 A. m.
5-20 a. si. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, 8 30 a->si.
6.34 p. si. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10 p. si.
5a45 p. si. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 6.40; Chicago, 9 00.
9.05 A. 3i. (No. 71), Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, Sonth Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snp’t.
From and after March 1st, trains on the Michigan Central Railroad leave Niles as follows:
TRAINS EASTWARD.
Night Express, Mail. -	-	-
Day Express, -Accommodation, Way Freight,
Evening Express. Pacific Express, Accommodation, Mail -	-	-
Day Express Way Freight -
TRAINS WESTWARD.
AIR UNE DIVISION.
EASTWARD.
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--
Three Rivers Accommodation ------Atlantic Express -	--	--	--	-
Way Freight -	--	--	--	-- -
WESTWARD.^ Three Rivers Accommodation—Arrive * Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	-
Pacific Express -	--	--	--	--
Way Freight-
. NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
12.22 a.m
9.10 a.m
11.5) a.m
7.35 pan
8.0J a.m
2.20 a.m
5.10 a.m
6.50 a.m
4.2u pan
5.20 p in
1.45 p.m
9.15 a m - 7.40 p.m
9.0j pan
10.30 a.in
6.45 a.m
3.50 pan
5.05 a.m
- 5.1'5 pan
REAVE NILES.
9:20 am—Connects at Niles with trains from Chicago and Michigan City.
5:20 p m—Connects at Niles with trains from Detroit andall stations on Main and Air Line.
7:35 p m —Connects at Niles with trains from Kalamazoo, Chicago, and Three Rivers.
LEAVE SOUTH BEND.
6:30 a m—Connects at' Niles with Kalamazoo Accommodation
direct for Chicago. 11.00 a m—Connects at Niles with fast Day Express east over the main line. 6:15 p m—Connects at Niles with Atlantic Express, Kalamazoo and Three Rivers Accommodation.
H. E. SARGENT, Gen’l Superintendent,
Marl4-tf.
CHICAGO.
NILES I SOUTH BEND R.R.
Leave Niles, -
CC
GOING SOUTH.
GOING NORTH.
Leave Niles, -
9.21 a m. Leave South Bend,
5.20 p.m.	“	“
7.35 p.m.	“	“
SUNDAY TRAINS.
10.00 a.m. I Leave South Bend, . -
7.35 p.m. |	“	“
6.30 a.m.
11.00 a m.
6.15 p.m;
8.00 a.m.
5 00 p.m.
S. R. KING, Agent, Sonth Bend.
ES” Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7,9, ana 71; East, Nos. 2 and70. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 12.30 p. 3i., runniug through to Wabash. Throng, tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets Insurance tickets, R. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon applies:, tion to the Ticket Agent.
PJEYiNSYDVAjXIA CEXTRAL DOUBLE TBA0K EAILB0AD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Taree daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m | Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m I	“	“	6.41 a. m*
3rd train “	“	9.00 p. m |	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and Sonth, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULtOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MY HRs. Geu’l Pass aud Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND,-Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦ Second day.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line
AWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot,’Chicago, near Mad-Qp ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Slain Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
+9:45 p.m.
ARRIVE.
♦8:00 p.m
♦4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m,
♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 .m.
J7:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
MURDER?.
But a man can earn with this WELL AUGER, $25 Per
any size, and at the rate of 150 feet per day. Augers made of Cast-steel and ■warranted. Always successful in quicksand. Best tool in the world for prospecting for coal and orcs. Farm, Township and County rights for sale. Send. _.your P. O., Co. and btatc, and get descriptive hook with explanations. Address Auger Co.t St Louist Mo.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only JEx’ cept Saturday. 11 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. c. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
XiCVZSVIZiZaS N. ALBAN7 & CHICAGO R.R.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows: GOINO NORTH.
Day guaranteed using our
923w.u Auger
Pass....
Freight.
Freight.
Pass....
.7 29 p. .2.48 a. .8 57 p.
31.
31. M.
9.24 a. m.
Pass Freight Freight. Pass...,
GOING SOUTH
8 23 p.tt.
..............4.45	a.m.
....’.........11.23 A.M.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.