“Vita Sine LiterisMorsEst.”	31
___________________________________I__________________________________ :
Volume VI. UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME, IND., SEPT. 14, 1872. Number 1
Stuiy.
Every one lias his own idea about study. But there are some things that experience has dictated which are commended to the attention of every earnest student. Wise men have prescribed certain courses of study and these have been improved by experience and adapted to the times and the people. Times and people change, and what would answer at one time might be entirely out of place at another, and the same with different peoples. But this is something the student need not look after—the course of studies will be attended to by those wiser and more experienced than himself, and the times will take care of themselves. The student’s work is to study and prepare himself for the future when he is to “ paddle his own canoe,” and lay up a store of knowledge which in after time is to aid him in divining the future and judging aright of the circumstances by which he is surrounded.
Though college days are the happiest days of our lives, still they have their clouds. Though this to a great extent depends upon the student himself, if be be lazy and negligent there will surely be cloudy times, but if on the contrary he be “up and doing,” zealous and interested in his work, he will have a sunny time of it; then his college days will not only be happy but will be well spent. When a student likes study he will almost always find pleasure in it.
The habit some have of studying a certain branch simply because it is in the course, and not with the intention of mastering it so far as they go, is a waste of time. The truth of the matter is, that “ anything worth learning at all, is worth learning well.” Now some make a mistake, thinking that all they need do is to “ go to class,” as the expression has it, in order to be up in a study; their aim is a “ degree,” and they do not stop to consider whether or not they will be worthy of it. Knowledge and not a degree is that by which the wot hl judges, so of what account is a diploma if we have not the knowledge to support it. But we are drifting. When one studies he should consider that he is doing earnest work and not playing; bis earnestness should even border upon enthusiasm. This may seem extravagant, but we think observation will bear us out. Look where you will, and you will find that it is the earnest, zealous man who succeeds best in his calling. The doctor who is enthusiastic in his studies and calling, the lawyer who enters with spirit and determination upon the duties of his profession, is the one who becomes the best doctor or lawyer in the place; they are the men who find pleasure in performing the duties of their different callings. They win the confidence of the people because they merit it. Nor is the student an excep
tion ; if he finds no pleasure in study and. does not endeavor to make it pleasing, he may be sure of failure in the end; he will not become a solid student. He may have a smattering of the different branches, but that will be all; he will be thorough in nothing. But how are we to make a study pleasing? When one studies any branch hard he will take interest in it, he will love to talk about it, and when he becomes interested he is pretty apt to be pleased with it; and to study the branch will then have become an agreeable exercise. How full of truth then is not the old maxim. “Labor omnia rincit.” Study hard is the way to make study agreeable, and when it is agreeable we find pleasure in it, and when we find pleasure in it it is then that we study properly and do justice to those who send us to college, to our Alma Muter and to ourselves.
Gulliver.
Horace and. the Tablet. .
Ed. Scholastic :—Recognizing, as I do, with Tertullian in his controversy with Philartes, the full force of the maxim “de guetibus non e*t di^putandum"—it is idle to dispute about tastes—I certainly have no desire to lengthen out a discussion which seems to have resolved itself rather into a questionof taste than of principle. But I may be excused fi>r observing that citations from literal translations of text books are the lowest order of authority. They are carelessly written by mechanical book-makers for the use of indolent students and of persons wholly ignorant of the original languages. These classes of people form a safe audience for a shabby performance. Like digests in the profession of the law, works of this character should be quoted only when the higher sources of authority are inaccessible, and then only with an apology. And to justify myself I may be excused for once more recapitulating: Horace in his Art of Poetry devotes just three consecutive paragraphs to the Greek poets. In the first he praises the carefulness of their iambic metre. In the second he ridicules the representations of their tragic stage. In the third he exalts to an equality with Latin courage and conquest the native vigor of the Latin tongue. And this, too, in a poem written purposely to magnify the difficulties of Latin versification.
And on the German branch of our subject I maybe permitted to produce an English authority not less respectable and not less Catholic than that of the London Tablet of July twenty, eighteen hundred and seventy two, page seventy, in which it is said that “ before many years are passed the German element in the United States will preponderate over every other both in numbers and intelligence”—that "several of the States and several of the
2
THE SCHOLASTIC.
territories are becoming almost entirely German”—that the Germans “ are intensely clannish—they must have their own priests* their own churches, their own schools and even their own bishops.” And may I not ask whether this does not look somewhat as though the English language, arbitrary, irregular and insolvent, might at no distant day cease to be the leading language in America, and that the language of the fatherland, law-abiding, symmetrical .and independent, might become the “mother tongue ?”	-	. Health and farewell!
J. A. Wilstach.
List of Students, September 3, 1872.
George J. Gross, Everett Greaves, Edward DeGroot, . Dennis J. Hogan, John D. Hogan, Dennis O’Connell, E. A Dougherty, William Green, Daniel Green, Charles Green, David Salazar, Santiago Valdez, Albert J. Weatherbee, Frank J. Butters, Eber B. Gambee, Adolph Kreichgauer, John S. Dunn, Sebastian Wise, John F. O’Connell, John McGrath, Peter Gall, Ambrose B. Reid, Charles V. Reid, John J. Carmody, Otto Waterman, William Breen, John Arentz, Thomas McGee, William Ohlen, William J. Clarke, Charles Metzger, Henry Nirdlinger, Charles Nirdlinger, Edward Holt, Louis Loser, William Dexter, Edward Plummer, Thomas Brady, James Caren, Jacob Eisenman, Francis Smyth, Joseph Hoeveler, Joseph F. Schmidt, E. William Schmidt, Jerome Lynch, John J. Porter, Harry Porter, Charles Walter, John Gillen,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
San Antonio, Texas.’ Notre Dame, Indiana. Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
New York, New York.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Albiquin, New Mexico.
Taos, New Mexico.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Chicago, Illinois.
Adrian, Michigan.
Paris, France.
St. Louis, Missouri.
Alton, Illinois.
Alton, Illinois.
Alton, Illinois.
Watseka, Illinois.
Titusville, Pennsylvania.
Titusville, Pennsylvania.
Springfield, Illinois.
Nashville, Tennessee.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Columbus, Ohio.
Columbus, Ohio.
Chicago, Dlinois.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Waverly, Iowa.
Waverly, Iowa.
Nashua, Iowa.
Nashville, Tennessee.
Nashville, Tennessee.
Columbus, Ohio.
Louisville, Kentucky.
Springfield, Massachusetts. East Liberty, Pennsylvania. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Watertown, Wisconsin.
Cleveland, Ohio.
Cleveland, Ohio.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Lawrence, Massachusetts.
Thomas Mullin, Nathaniel Vannamee, John McDermott, Andrew McIntosh, George Fliehmann, Charles H. Wilcox, Daniel Harnett, Oliver P. Tong, Julius Golsen, Ralph Golsen, Colly Clarke, Charles W. Morse, John D. McIntyre, Edward E. Mohl, James E. Devine, Andrew Greening, Andrew Blong, Packey Dillon, John McSorley, Charles McSorley, Joseph Blong, James D. Christie, William Towey, Louis F. Wright, William Gaar, Charles J. Black, Edwin D. Murphy, Thomas F. Hansard, Henry Cassidy, James Kinney, Harry Faxon, Horatio N. Saylor, Frank H. Buter, B. L. Dorsey, Charles Campeau, Daniel R. Bryant, Patrick J. Cooney, John Cooney, Joseph Smith, William Pollard, Thomas F. Keenan, William J. Lucas, John Donnelly, Adelbert N. Brown, Winfield S. Lovin, Curtis P. Thomas, Thomas Greaves, Leslie C. Whitaker, P. B. Spears, Herman Childs, Isidore Friedman, Harry M. Motherspaugh, Joseph P: Devine, James D. George, Joseph M. George, John Hogan,	’
David Glickauf, Charles Donnelly, Frank P. Donnelly, Frank Peril, John M. Lambin, Gilbert Brown, William Whedon, Garrett Stack,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Elkhart, Indiana.
Galveston, Texas. ' Harvard, Wisconsin. Chicago, Illinois. Aurora, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. South Bend, Indiana. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Dlinois. Chicago, Illinois.
Elgin, Illinois.
Grand Rapids, Michigan. Grand Rapids, Michigan. Dexter, Michigan. Chelsea, Michigan. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. Albion, Michigan. Richmond, Indiana.
Yorkville, Illinois. Woodstock, Illinois. Youngstown, Ohio. Youngstown, Ohio. Ravenna, Ohio. Chicago, Illinois. Antwerp, Ohio.
Fort Wayne, Indiana. Gillespie, Illinois. South Bend, Indiana. Hebron, Indiana. Cleveland, Ohio. Cleveland, Ohio. Cleveland, Ohio. Olmstead Falls, Ohio. Cleveland, Ohio. Newburgh, Ohio. Woodstock, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Kokomo, Indiana. Toledo, Ohio.
Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Morrison, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Alliance, Ohio. San Antonio, Texas. Lexington, Kentucky. Lexington, Kentucky. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Woodstock, Illinois. Woodstock, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois.
Knightsville, Indiana. Coldwater, Michigan. Freeport, Illinois.
L D 1 S' I			
<00. k L 4 9^9	K £	THE SCH V	OLASTIC.	1
1	St. Paul, Minnesota,	Col. M. Johnson,	Harvard, Dlinois.
Joseph B. Comer,	Hastings, Minnesota.	H. W. Walker,	Chicago, Illinois.
E. L. Spitley,	Lincoln, Illinois.	Joseph Campbell,	Lacon, Illinois.
Emilias Morancy,	Versailles, Kentucky,	Frank Egan,	Nashville, Tennessee.
Charles M. Karst,	Defiance, Ohio.	John Stubbs,	Galveston, Texas.
F. J. Weisenburger,	Defiance, Ohio.	John Hanley,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
B. J. Gorman,	Defiance, Ohio.	John M. Rourke,	Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Thomas P. White,	Versailles, Kentucky.	Thomas L. Watson,	Henderson, Kentucky.
William Meyer,	Portsmouth, Ohio.	Charles Berdel,	Chicago, Dlinois.
James B. Crummey,	St. Paul, Minnesota.	Gustave Berdel,	Chicago, Illinois.
George W. Crummey,	St. Paul, Minnesota.	Edward McMahon,	Chicago, Dlinois.
Frank O’Brien,	Chicago, Illinois.	Stephen McMahon,	Chicago, Dlinois.
Charles O’Brien,	Chicago, Illinois.	John Quill,	Chicago, Dlinois.
Henry Schaller,	Chicago, Illinois.	John Shiels,	Shielsville, Indiana.
James McGlynn,	Toledo, Ohio.	John Harrington,	Lena, Dlinois.
Hugh Rodgers,	Muskegon, Michigan.	Frank W. Phelan,	St. Louis, Missouri.
F. C. St Aubin,	Detroit, Michigan.	• Robert W. Staley,	St. Louis, Missouri.
Frank J. St. Aubin,	Detroit, Michigan.	Edward P. Cleary,	Chicago, Dlinois.
Louis C. Watson,	Detroit, Michigan.	Thomas Nelson,	Chicago, Illinois.
Herbert F. Randolph,	Greenburgh, Indiana.	John Nelson,	Chicago, Dlinois.
William I. Briant,	Huntington, Indiana.	Thomas Flanagan,	St. Paul, Minnesota.
Virgilius McKinnon,	Chicago, Illinois.	Louis Best,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Cicero McKinnon,	Chicago, Illinois.	Bernard Drake,	Willow Springs, Dlinois.
Harry Enneking,	Cincinnati, Ohio.	James Ely Moran,	Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Alfred Kleine,	Cincinnati, Ohio.	Edward G. Ohmer,	Dayton, Ohio.
Edgar J. W. Poor,	Cincinnati, Ohio.	Frank McOsker,	Elgin, Dlinois.
Anthony Costello,	Cincinnati, Ohio.	William J. Campbell,	Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Wood Hoffman,	Circleville, Ohio.	Charles J. Dodge,	Burlington, Iowa.
Nat. S Mitchell, B.S.,	Davenport, Iowa.	William W. Dodge,	Burlington, Iowa.
Frank Austin,	Marshall, Michigan.	John Mullarky,	Butler Centre, low*.
Francis A. Cronin,	Marshall, Michigan.	James J. Graham,	Chicago, Dlinois.
John L. Burnside,	Belvidere, Illinois.	Thomas Renshaw,	Chicago, Illinois.
Thomas Phelan,	Chicago, Illinois.	John F. Wolfe,	Garfield, Illinois.
Peter R. Brosseau, >	Manteno, Illinois.	Herbert H. Hunt,	Burlington, Iowa.
John Danz,	Chicago, Illinois.	J. W. McAlister,	Nashville, Tennessee.
Charles F. Walsh,	Chicago, Illinois.	M. B. Torbett,	Nashville, Tennessee.
Thomas Walsh,	Chicago, Illinois.	Albert Koch,	Cleveland, Ohio.
Charles Bardsher,	Castelia, Ohio.	John Ewing,	Lancaster, Ohio.
Lewis S. Hayes,	Chicago, Illinois.	Frank C. Ewing,	Lancaster, Ohio.
James E. Hogan,	Joliet, Illinois.	Joseph P. McHugh,	Lafayette, Indiana.
Daniel E. Maloney,	Harvard, Illinois.	Robert Kelly,	Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Samuel Marks,	Chicago, Illinois.	Albert H. Claflin,	Chicago, Dlinois.
Joseph Marks,	Chicago, Illinois.	Heinrich Renderer,	Chicago, Dlinois.
Frank Sweeger,	Chicago, Illinois.	Francis J. Olcott,	Chicago, Illinois.
Edward Milburn,	Mishawaka, Indiana.	W. H. Snyder,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Patrick O’Meara,	Delaware Junction, Iowa.	John F. Dillon,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Thomas J. Murphy,	Ravenna, Ohio.	John O’Meara,	Cincinnati, Ohio.
Charles W. Hake,	Grand Rapids, Michigan.	James E. Kelly,	Joliet, Illinois.
William F. Hake,	Grand Rapids, Michigan.	Robert Lewis,	Bergin Point, New Jersey.
Edward Halpin,	Toledo, Ohio.	James Ireland,	Cincinnati, Ohio.
Fred P. Carlin,	Findlay, Ohio.	Frank Bauer,	South Bend, Indiana.
Henry Harris,	South Bend, Indiana.	Gabriel Summers,	Notre Dame, Indiana.
Samuel Strayer,	South Bend, Indiana.	James Dore,	Hennepin, Dlinois.
Florian Devoto,	Notre Dame, Indiana.	August Schmidt,	Chicago, Dlinois.
Moses Davidson,	Laporte, Indiana.	William T. Ball,	Chicago, Dlinois.
Joseph Jepson,	Chicago, Illinois.	Henry Zuber,	Chicago, Illinois.
J. Walter Morgan,	Memphis, Tennessee.	Leo Sanders,	Battle Creek, Michigan.
August Schiffer,	Monee, Illinois.	William S. Hull,	Geneva, Illinois.
Frederick Miller,	Richton, Illinois.	Porter L. Johnson,	Benton Harbor, Michigan.
John Drake,	Sag Bridge, Dlinois.	John Miller,	Rochester, Indiana.
Patrick O’Connell,	Summitt, Illinois.	Frank P. Hamilton,	Flint, Michigan.
Hugh F. Matthews,	Chicago, Illinois.	Joseph E. Shanks,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Valentine Hansen,	Michigan City, Indiana.	Vicente M. Baca,	Las Vegas, New Mexico.
George D. Tobin,	Concordia, Mississippi.	[CONTINUEDOJi GTH PitfE.]	
SCHOLASTIC.

The Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
Rev. M. B. Brown, C. S. C.,........-	Editor.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
One year.........................................$2 00
One session (5 months)........................... 1 25
Single copies_(10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
The Scholastic for 1872 and. ’73.
In assuming the editorship of a paper which already enjoys a reasonable share of public favor, we feel called upon to give some explanation of the changes introduced, and of our hopes and prospects for the future.
OUR NEW FORM.
Two motives induced us to change the form of The Scholastic. First, many of our readers wish to preserve the Scholastic in volumes, and finding, the old form rather large and cumbersome when bound, suggested a reduction in the size of the page. As this suggestion agreed with our own view of the matter, we gladly made the change. •
The second motive was financial:—the circulation of a College paper is comparatively limited, and its publication quite expensive; hence to secure ourselves against too heavy a loss we were obliged to reduce the size and expense of our publicatkr We are always willing to incur a moderate expense to gratify our friends, yet the annual loss hitherto sustained by the publishers of The Scholastic, is greater than we feel justified in continuing.
our hopes and prospects.
The reduction of our paper to its present form will diminish our losses about one third—supposing that our readers of past years will continue their patronage. To cancel the other two thirds, we depend on the efforts of our friends to procure new subscribers, whose yearly contributions will cover the remaining expense of publication.	(
Judging from the lively interest always manifested by our students, old and new, in everything connected with Notre Dame, we feel confident that this year will see The Scholastic so well supported that its publishers will be justified not only in continuing it, but also in doubling its size (in the number of its pages) next year.
With this explanation which we give, both as an apology and as a hint to our friends and patrons we confidently send forth the first number of Vol. VI. We are determined, life and health permitting, to make the present volume of The Scholastic fully as interesting as it was in years past, and with the efficient aid of the many able contributors to our columns, we feel confident that our expectations will be realized.
The question then, is, will our friends second, our efforts to issue a first-class college paper ?
The 'list of arrivals closed on Wednesday morning; those entering since will appear next week.
•	Brevities.
Somebody says: “ Look out for the Examination!”
Let us have some lecturesand debates this year.
Prof. C. A. B. Von Weller has been secured for the Classes of Painting. '
Tn^ iron pillars in the study-hall are an improvement on the wooden ones.
The Prefect of Discipline is very desirous that the students should not get homesick. So he commenced to prescribe remedies on the 3d inst.
Messrs. O’Mahony and Mitchell, both graduates of the Scientific Course of ’72, are with us again. May they long continue so. .
Positively.—No person, except the editor or one having an order from him, will be permitted to take a copy of The Scholastic from the Printing Office.
Students thinking it to their advantage to pass from one class to another must apply for the necessary permit through the Professor of the class which they wish to leave.
Mrs. Maj. R. C. Walker and daughter, of Helena, Montana, made a short visit-at Notre Dame last week,— we were very glad to see them.
The sanitary condition of Notre Dame is excellent. Some few, however, are suffering from home-sickness. Prescription: hard study, class, and not too many letters to Mamma.
During the retreat given at Notre Dame, by the Right. Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne, to the priests of the diocese, we had the pleasure of meeting many old acquaintances and dear friends.
We were recently favored by a visit from Mr. J. D. Osborne of the South Bend Union. Mr. Osborne is not only a gentleman of talent and refinement, but one who can use bis ability to advantage as his excellent paper clearly proves.	'
Hon. P. B. Ewing, accompanied by Mrs. and Miss Ewing, were among our visitors during the past week. The chief object of their visit was to place some of the younger members of the family at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s—two at each institution. We hope to have the pleasure of seeing them frequently at the College. '
Classes are now running in good order, and unusual interest and energy are manifested by both Students and Professors. Before the next issue of The Scholastic, we hope the classification will be brought to perfection, as the Director of Studies is actively engaged in correcting all the slight mistakes made in the general classification, in consequence of the haste with which the preliminary examination had to be conducted in order to get'the classes under headway.	•
Students should be convinced that their greatest interest requires that they should be in the classes for which they are prepared, and that the Director of Studies, who knows the quality and advancement of each class, is the best judge as to what class they are prepared to enter. Being placed in a lower class, or being removed from a higher to a lower, argues no ill will towards the student,— on the contrary, it shows that those who are charged with the direction of his studies take a real interest in his welfare, and do their duty.
I !
THE SCHOLASTIC.
5
Congregation of the Holy Cross.
At the close of the General Chapter, noticed in the last number of The Scholastic, the following statement of the number of houses, religious, pupils, etc., connected •with the Congregation of the Holy Cross, was prepared for the benefit of all interested in the welfare of this active community:
'im
•SUutZSlR
•siooipg iin.qsnpui
•suinifisy umidJQ
-S2fono:i
•siooipg wnuuioo
•wwiu&icldv
s 3 Eh
•suvyfao

'SdiuidpD^V do $2621109 uf

SlOOIpS U01UUC0Q KJ
'MM
's^uDirijsoj

o

•pdSWfOJtf
IO ©I
32
W P o a
co
h-4
5
Z 0 o

'VWL
We were delighted to see Mr. Bohen, of Fond du Lac, Wis., a student at Notre Dame in 1856. He was on his ■ wedding tour, and stopped to take a survey of old scenes; and his friends and former classmates who still remain here were rejoiced to see that he met with no accident similar to that which befell him during his surveying experience while a student.
- Mr. F. Crapser, a commercial graduate of ’68, paid us a short visit on the 3d inst. He was in the best of spirits when we saw him. We were sorry that he could not remain longer, but his business would not permit. He has our best wishes.
We were very agreeably surprised the other morning at meeting our old friend, Jacob Eisenman, on the college steps. The circumstance brought back pleasing remembrances of bygone days. We were glad to see him looking so well and to hear that he was to remain.
Fly Catches.
Young ladies, beware of broomsticks !
Hedge fences are usually looked upon as ornamental, but it is not considered complimentary to be told that you look as “ handsome (?) as a hedge fence.”
The Botanical Garden will soon be one of the greatest objects of interest at Notre Dame.
The hurculean labors of Rev. Fr. Carrier are exciting attention.
Don’t kill the birds.
Apples are reported scarce.
It is vulgar to eat pea nuts in public.
Let " Labor omnia vincit ” have a rest.
Bro. Thomas is about to resume business.
The Societies and Clubs are about to reorganize.
The chip-monk is by far the liveliest kind of monk.
Query—“ Do they kill a whole beef at a time here?”
All the whistling at Notre Dame is left to the winds.
The six-footers are few and far between head and foot.
Don’t forget the motto beginning: “Nomina stvltorum" etc.
“In the midst of life we are in debt,” was the sigh of a despairing spendthrift.
It is rumored that the peaches between the College and the boat-house will be ripe in a week or so, but we think not.
The ball-alley is the only place about the college that does not seem to have missed the students during vacation. Not a blade of grass grew thereon.
“ Excelsior ” is being read in the Senior’s refectory. It is a happy work, and though we have heard it read several times it pleases us more every time we hear it.
Father Carrier’s Botanical Garden looks “just as happy as a big sunflower,” and Brother Simon is working hard to make it happier. -
The boats have been in constant use since the students commenced coming; we fear they will get tired—they begin to look so.	*
Mother Goose’s Melodies is described as, “a mirthprovoking volume for infantiles, containing the incredulous tale of an old woman with a numerous family, who resided in a brogan.”
Not many days ago we heard some one trying to revive the old song, “I want to go homebut though he entered with spirit into it himself no one would “join in the chorus,” so he gave it up as a bad job.
Those of the farmers hereabouts who have melons are the favored hosts of the students, and though Brother Thomas has opened his fruit and candy store they do not forsake them, and will stick to them as long as there is * melon in the “ patch.”
6
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Ths Celtic Xndez.
We cordially welcome the Celtic, Index among our exchanges. This is a new Irish Catholic paper published in Cleveland, Ohio, and promises to be the Catholic paper of the West.
The Celtic Index has two departments—the one devoted to matters of general interest, and presided over by Mr. P. K. Walsh as Editor; the other is assigned to matters of a religious nature, and is under the Editorship of Rev. J. P. Carroll, whose brilliant success as a student at Notre Dame in 1855-56, has been followed by a series of successes •ever since as a student, professor and clergyman. Our personal knowledge of Father Carroll’s ability justifies us in prophesying that the Cdtic Index will be a thoroughly live paper, and we heartily recommend all—especially Catholics—to send their names, with $2 50, to either of the Editors, and try the Index for a year at least.
Address	Rev. J. P. Carroll,
Or, P. K. Walsh,
No. 6 Drumm’s New Block, Seneca Street,
Cleveland, Ohio.
The American. Elocutionist.
SECOND EDITION REVISED.
[From the Wisconrin Journal of Education.]
The selections in this book are marked by a wide range and freedom from anything likely to be offensive to political or religious prejudices, and, being made with good judgment and good taste, are well adapted to general use. -The introductory treatise on elocution and vocal culture presents an elaborate dissertation upon the nature of the voice and the several organs of speech, while the suggestions as to vocal culture are excellent, and are accompanied with suitable exercises. All this is followed by an “ ^Esthetic View of Elocution,” and cuts aptly illustrating the various expressions of the hand, positions of the feet, and attitudes and gestures. Besides the intrinsic merits of the woik, it is beautifully printed.
[From the Vice-President of St. Ignatius’ College, Ill.]
I have examined Prof. Lyons’ American Elocutionist, and am highly pleased with it. No one can read Prof. Brown’s elaborate introduction on Vocal Culture without feeling grateful to the learned author for the boon he confers upon the youthful aspirant to public speaking. The selections are chosen with discrimination and good taste. As a book of oratory, the American Elocutionist will take the first place..
Mishawaka, a flourishing town five miles from Notre Dame, was visited on the night of the 5th inst. by a terrible misfortune. A fire, originating in a barn, communicated to the adjacent buildings, and aided by a strong gale, became uncontrollable for several hours. Forty-nine buildings were consumed, including three-fourths of the business portion of the town.
■Notwithstanding this great calamity, the citizens are by no means discouraged, and are energetically preparing to rebuild.
Estimated loss—a quarter of a million.
List of Students.
[Continued from Page 3.]
Edward S Monahan, Robert Emmett Boyle, John Boyle, James L. Noonan, Henry Beckman, Henry Quan, Frank M Scrafford, Charles W. Hodgson, James A. Murphy, John T. Burnham, Walter Bartlett, John Wanbaugh, Thomas Flanagan, William Rumely, Frank Miller, George Ruger, Charles Ruger, Adam Munzenberger, Franklin S. Dowe, John H. Gillespie, Edward E. Gault,
Louisville, Kentucky. Cincinnati, Ohio. Cincinnati, Ohio. Cleveland, Ohio.
Cleveland, Ohio. Chicago, Illinois. Seneca, Kansas. Clarksville, Tennessee. Keokuk, Iowa.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Marshall, Illinois.
San Pierre, Indiana. Nashville, Tennessee. Laporte, Indiana. Kingsbury, Indiana. Lafayette, Indiana. Lafayette, Indiana. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. D xter, Michigan. Milwaukee, Wis.
i
The library of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Association has been removed to No. 6, where it formerly stood, and where the Society has listened to many a spirited debate.
It is thought by some that the .societies will and should combine, but nothing has been done in the matter. It rests with the members to say.
The distance between Notre Dame post-office and St. Mary’s station, on the M. C. R.R., is one mile and twentyseven rods (around the road).
The fence between the Juniors’ recreation grounds and the Seniors’ has been set over to the Seniors’ walk, thus enlarging the Juniors’ yard, while the Seniors do not miss the ground sliced off from their domain.
Meterological.—The weather has been on the change for the last few days; perhaps the old clerk has been discharged. Would it not be well to hire him over again? He may do better.
Vacation is a good thing. It makes us the happier on meeting the students of former years, especially when they all say that they have enjoyed their short stay at home and their countenance adds confirmation to their words.
Base Ball does not promise to be as lively the coming session as last. Well, it will bear some relax. “ Work while you work and play while you play ” should be the student’s motto. The contest will probably be almost exclusively confined to the seniors. The members ' of the champion nine are coming back one by one.
The potato bugs have trimmed the vines in the orchard and commenced climbing the flag-pole to see where they will reap their next harvest. They are holding camp-meetings here and there around the lake to deliberate upon their modus operandi and how they should vote in the coming election. They are a nice bug and there is no hum about them. This is “what we know about potato bugs.”
THE SCHOLASTIC.	7
SAIHT MARY’S ACADEMY.
Saint Mary’s Academy, September 4, 1872.
The pleasant excitement usually attending the commencement of a new session is increased by the delight with which the old pupils regard the improved appearance of the Academy and its surroundings. The frame buildings known as the Sisters’ house having been removed, the elegant imposing new edifice, which was in the rear of these buildings, stands out in all its grandeur. The buildings now completed form but one-half of the architectural design, which in a few years, it is hoped, will be fully developed at St. Mary’s :
The most interesting event during the vacation was the ceremonies which took place on the Feast of the Assumption, Aug. loth. There were present on that occasion many visitors, parents, and relatives of the novices and postulants who were then admitted to their profession or the reception of the white veil. The following article from the Ave Mabia, will be read with interest by the former pupils of St. Mary’s, for they will there find the names of many of their classmates and the sharers of their graduating honors.
RELIGIOUS RECEPTION AND PROFESSION.
On the feast of the Assumption, in the Convent of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, St. Mary’s, near Notre Dame, the following young ladies received the white veil of novices :
Misses Catherine Donovan, (Sister Mary of St. Bonaventure;) Elizabeth Shea, (Sister Mary of St. Aubin;) Ida Thomas, (Sister Mary of St. Louis;) Ellen Horan, (Sister Mary of St. Philip Neri;) Elizabeth Roach, (Sister Mary of St. Aloysia;) Mary Ryan, (Sister Mary of St. Isidore;) Catherine Dwyer, (Sister Mary of St. Marcella;) Annie McCarty, (Sister Mary of St. Cyrilla;) Annie Gleason, (Sister Mary of St. Michael ;)Mary Scheiber, (Sister Mary of St. Francis Borgia;) Florence Evans, (Sister Mary of St. Peter Alcantara;) Mary Agnes E wing, (Sister Mary Agnes of the Holy Cross;) Bridget Halton, (Sister Mary of St. Angelica,-) Margaret Du Chene, (Sister Mary of St. Clara;) Annie Duffy, (Sister Mary of St. Evarista;) Annie McLaughlin, (Sister Mary of St. Simplicia;) Catherine Woods, (Sister Mary of St. Leo.)
On the same day the following novices made their religious profession in the same Society:
Sister Mary of St. Mechtildis, (Bridget Rielly;) Sister' Mary of St. Eustochium, (Ellen Flanuigan;) Sister Mary of St. Alphonsus, (Johanna Ward;) Sister Mary of St. Beata, (Catherine Casey;) Sister Mary of St. Julia, (Johanna McCarty;) Sister Mary of St. Dositheus, (Mary A. Wall,) Sister Mary of St. Catherine of Sienna (Julia Murphy;) Sister Mary of St. Blanche, (Mary Rose Bigelow;) Sister Mary of St. Olympia, (Emma M. Weld;) Sister Mary of St. Gonzales, (Margaret Maher,-) Sister Mary of St. Magdalene de Pazzi, (Johanna Horan;) Sister Mary of St. Cecilia, (Editha Lilly.)
The present session promises well, both as regards number and material; for to the talent of last year there is. added a number of bright, intelligent girls, who come determined to compete with the old pupils in all their efforts for supereminence.
Nothing like competition in drawing out the powers of the mind.	Respectfully,	Stylus.
The Best Medicias for Trouble.
Don’t try to quench your sorrow in rum or narcoties. If you begin this, you must keep right on with it, till it leads you to ruin; or, if you try to pause, you must add physical pain and degradation to the sorrow you seek to escape. Of all wretched men his condition is the most pitiful who-, having sought to drown his grief in drink, awakes from his debauch with shattered nerves, aching head and depressed mind, to face the trouble again. That which was at first painful to contemplate will, after drink, seem unbearable. Ten to one the fatal drink will be again and again sought, till its victim sinks a hopeless, pitiful wreck. Work is your true remedy. If misfortune hits you hard, hit you something else hard; pitch into something with a will. There’s nothing like good, solid, absorbing, exhausting work to cure trouble. If you have met with losses, you don’t want to lie awake thinking about them. You want sweet, calm, sound sleep, and to eat your dinner with appetite. But you can’t unless you work. If you say you don’t feel like work, and go a loafing all day to tell Dick and Harry the story of your woes, you’ll lie awake and keep your wife awake by tossing, spoil her temper and your own breakfast the next morning, and begin to morrow feeling ten times worse than you do to-day. There are some great troubles that only time can heal, and perhaps some that can never be healed at all; but all can be helped by the great panacea, work. Try it, you who are afflicted. It is not patent medicine. It has proved its efficacy since first Adam and Eve left behind them with weeping their beautiful Eden. It is an officinal remedy. All good physicians in regular standing prescribe it in cases of mental and moral disease. It operates kindly and well, leaving no disagreeable sequeUce, and we assure you that we have taken a large quantity of it with the most beneficial effects. It will cure more complaints than any nostrum in the materia medica, and comes nearer being a “ cure-all ” than any drug or compound of drugs in the market. And it will not sicken you, if you do not take it sugar-coated.— Scientific American.
“I married a widow who had a grown-up daughter. My father visited our house very often, and fell in love with my step daughter, and married her. So my father became my son-in-law, and my step-daughter my mother, because, she was my father’s wife. Some time afterwards my wife had a son: he was my father s brother-in-law and my uncle, for he was brother of my step-mother. _ My father’s wife—i. e., my step-daughter—had also a son: he was, of course, my brother, and at the same time my grandchild, for he was the son of my daughter. My wife was my grandmother, because she was my mother’s mother. I was my wife’s husband and grandchild at the same time; and as the husband of a person’s grandmother is his grandfather, I was my own grandfather.”
Before Washington Irving’s time, it was a-pet British sneer — Who reads an American book ? Things have changed marvellously since. The American might now very appropriately ask—Who does not read American books ?
An old lady gave this as her idea of a great man: “ One who is keerful of his clothes, don’t drink sperets, ken read the Bible without spelling the words, and eat a cold dinner on wash-day without grumbling.”

8
THE SCHOLASTIC.
MM
W “Jive ^arin,”
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription, $20, paj able in adtance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, StO, in advance.
For 2 j ears $5. in advance.
For 1 j ear, $3, in advance.
Single copies, 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, R? one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria for $50, in advance.
The postage of the Ave Marta is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post-office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
SUMMER AIUtAXGEMEA'T. fJVRAINS now leave South Beno as follows: GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 11 30 a. m.		Arrive at Buffalo 4.25 a. m	
cc	°	12.53 p. m.	CC	“	4 St) a. m
Cl	“	9.18 p. m.	CC	“	2(0 p.m
<c	*•	12 35 a in.	41	“	5 25 p. m
IC	u	8.5u p. m.	Cl	“	6 50 p. m
	GOING	TT-KST.	
Leave	South Bend 4 30 p. m.	Arrive at	Chicago 8 CO p. m
*4	“	3 15 a. m.	c.	“	6.50 a. m
IC	w	4 40 a. m.	CC	“	7.25 a. m
41	“	528 p m.	It	“	10.00 p. m
CC	°	6.35 a. m.	cl	“	10.30 a. m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
jKF" For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
Crains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than
South Bend time._
J. H. DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland. Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland.
C. P. Leland, Auditor. Cleveland, Ohio.
Jno. Desmond, hup’t Western Division, Chicago. Ill.
J W. Cary, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
C. Morse, General Passenger Agent, Chicago. Illinois.
E.	C. OviATT, 1 icket Agent, South Bend.
A. J. White, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING. To Lafayette and Louisville.
Going North—Express pa-»euger, 6.H9 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
Going south—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46a.m.; 9.25p.m.
Freights. 1.00 a.m ; 4.48 a. m.	H. N, CANIFF, Agent.
PEXKSTL.VAailA CEXTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, •with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between, Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
Direct Eoute to Baltimore ana Washington City.
ON and after June 1, 1872, the 9 p m. train from i uicago arrives in
New York at II 30 a m the second day, 1J4 hour in advance of any Other route ; with corresponding reduction to Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington. Leaves Chicago daily except Saturdays and Sunrajs.
The 5 15 p m train from Chicago arrives in New York at 6 41 a tn. the second morning, 1J£ hour in advance of any other line Ibis train has an elegant Silver Palace Car running through between Chicago, Philadelphia and New York without change.
The 9 a.m. train from Chicago daily (except Sunday), with Pullman Palace Cars attached. Through between Chicago and New York, •without change, 314 hours in advance of any other route, and in time to make connection for Boston. No other Line offers this advantage.
Trains from Chicago to Cleveland via Crestline and “Bee” Line, connecting ar. Cleveland with trains on the Lake Shore Railroad for all points reached by that route.
Connections made at" Crestline for Columbus, and at Mansfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
Passage and Sleeping-Car Tickets can be purchased at the Company's Office,'65 Clark Street, and at the Passenger Depot, corner Mad-isun and > anal streets Chicaao.
'J HO MAS L. SCOTT, President
J. N McCULLOUGH, Gen'l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Ass't Sup't, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER. Geu Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F.	R. MYEK8, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Ag’t, Chicago.
UNIVERSITY OP KOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in JSCG, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern" & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS: Matriculation Fee. -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	$500
Board, Bed and bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- IfO CO
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12	50
Use of Piano, - -- -- -- -- -- 10 00 Use of Violin, -	-	-	--	-	-	-	-	-■	2	00
Drawing. - - - -- -- -- -- - 15 00 Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus,	-	-	-	-	5	00
Graduation Fee—Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the'College are
charged, extra,	35 00
.Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books. Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. LEiaCK'N-IEH, C.S.C., President.
^AINT ^ARY’S JUaDEMY,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The eighteenth annual session will open on the first Tuesday in September. The Academical and Classical Departments have been greatly enlarged by spacious buildings. A large Hall, 60x30 feet, has been appropriated to Choice Models in Busts. Chromos and Oil Painting, for Pupils who wish to enter the SCHOOL OF DESIGN, and devote iheir time to Drawing and Painting. St. Mary’s Conservatory of Music has also been enlarged. All branches of Music are taught on the plan of the best Classical Conservatories of Europe, under the direction of eight Teachers of Instrumental and two Teachers of Vocal Music. Pupils can procure Special Course of Studies, comprising Theory. Practice and ./Esthetics, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing, Piano, ilarp, Organ, Thorough Bass and Principles of Teaching
For full information send for Catalogue, and address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, JSbtre Dame, Ind.
ison Street linage, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western ’Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Alain Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Illi, and Louisiana. Mo.
OLD, REESAE5EE AW POPULAR ROUTE.
Chicago. Alton and St. Louis Line.
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS ROAD IN THE "WEST.
(See Classification of Railways by Board of Railway Commissioners.)
The Shortest, Best and Quickest Route
PROM
CHICAGO TO SaINT LOUIS,
Withou t Change of Cars.
^J’RAINS leaveWest Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 87:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. || Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and* a Saturdaj' Night Train.
WITHOUT CHANGE. Time, only 11 Hours.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
The oulj- Line running these Cars between Chicago and St. Louis, and Chicago and Kansas City. ■
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Genl Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	' CHICAGO'
