The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
TUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper •victvuMis; vive gviasl eras morltairiis.
Volume VIII,
JNO. HAGERTY,
City Judge.


i
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 8, 1875,
Number, 33.
L. G. TONG, Notary Public.
•pfAGERTY & TONG,
- ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
’	o24-ly
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St.,
- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
HEADQUARTERS FOR '
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., oil-tf
Before going elsewhere, go to
lu, '	’ Dealer in
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cob. Michigan and Washington Sts., • o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
KLL. SORTS OF
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc
—ALSO— -
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. -o24-tf
/
£) J. HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of HAVANA ANU DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
COUNTY- SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of -
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc. '
Orders expeditiously attended to..^
Office with M. Stover, Koom 22, over Wills & Sterna
Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
1OO MICHIGAN St.,
SO UTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
£ E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST.
No. 96 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)
o24-3m
nov 28-% tf.
jy£BS. C. S. STOVER,
MILTjIjSTER,
129 Michigan Street, South [Bend, Indiana.
dealer nr
Millinery Goods, Hats,‘Bonnets, Laces, &c.
Do you want a drive ? Go to
J^EN COQUILLARD’S
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUS
Niles, -	-	-	-	_ Michigan,
a; McKA¥, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house, nov 28-%tf.
^“The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	apl!7
Q.EORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. , (Up Staiis.)	%o24-tf
Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc.
INo. 54 Washington St.,
apl24
488
SCHOLASTIC
OVER 1,000 CASES OF FITS CURED.
nr. 8. Clay Todd, comer of Calhoun and Columbia streets, Fort Wayne, Indiana—P. 0. Box 1,361—has permanently cured over l,0i!0 cases of Epileptic Fits, not having failed in a single case in the past six years. Consultations free. Medicines sent to all parts of the United States and the Canidas. For particulars, call or address as above. Dr. Todd also treats successfully ALL DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.	apll7-4t
GOLSEN & EASTMAN,
Successors to Jno. Clarke, & Co.,
DISTILLERS,
31 & 33 RIVEB STREET,
CHICAGO.
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
Over Cooriley's Drugstore, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the
University, members of the College Societies, etc., etc., Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring! o24-tf
CARPENTER ™ HATTER I
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P- L. GARRITY’S
O _A_ HST ZD Y" FACTORY
100 Van- Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	15c.
Fine Mixed Candy -	- '	-	- 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy ...	35c.
Caramels -	-	- . -	-	- 35c
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	35c
Proportionately Low Prices to IVliole-sale Casli Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
o24-tf
CLOT^ITTG- HOUSE.
MEYER LIVINGSTON, CO Washington Street, [Three Doors West of Blum’s Cigar Store] SOUTH BZEJSTJD, ITTZDIUATTJA ISF’Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. AU. the Students should give nim a Call.	a!7
A. KLINGEL & SONS, 69 Washington Street, south: bzeustzd, ijstzdia-ita..
Keep constantly on hand a complete assortment of
MEN’S AND BOYS’ FINE BOOTS AND SHOES.
OF THE Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and Bracket & Boyden’ * Hand and Machine Sewed Goods.
THE
LARGEST STOCK IN THE CITY.
Give us a Call and See the Nobby Styles.
LADIES,
We would call your attention to our immense stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard makes.	al7
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend tfollows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 A. at. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. ar.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. ar.
10*12 a. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. m. ; Cleveland, 9.50
11.57 a. at. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 n. at.; Buffalo 4.20 a. m.
9.11 p. ar. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. ar.
8.00 p. ar. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a. ar„ Cleveland 7.05 a. m., Buffalo 1-10 p. ar.
5.44 P. ar. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.18 a. at. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 A. at.
5*24 a. ar. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago, 8.30 A. ar.
6.31 P- at. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10. p. ar.
5.44 P- at. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte.
6.35; Chicago, 9.
8.00 a. at. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 A. at, Chicago 11.10.
9.15 a. at. [No. 71J Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
Chicago, Bock Island, and I?acillc K. II.
Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, Grand Pacific-Hotel.
Trains.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express,
Peru Accommodation, Slight Express*
LEAVE.
10.13 a m
5.00 p m
10.30 p m
ARRIVE.
3.30 pm 9.30 am 6.15 a m
. The Scholastic;
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEFQSSTS OF THE JStUDENTS.
JDisce quasi semper vlcturus; vlve Quasi eras morlturus.
> Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 8,1875.	Number, 33.
Fere Marquette.
Suggested by a recent act of the Michigan Legislature ordering a costly bronze statue of the great Jesuit Missionary to be placed in the new Capitol.
Poetic justice, while the world, rolls round, Is always lauded, though not often found; For men have lived to earn a kingly crown Who met but silence, or a cold world’s frown. Not so, dear Father, thy unconscious acts; Thy noble, patient toil to-day exacts A tribute graceful from a grateful land, And justice crowns thee with a generous hand. ’Tis meet a statue should commemorate The deeds of one who was so truly great,— Of one whose soul was never lured by greed To the commission of a sinful deed,— Whose soul saw nothing in this human clod Save the pure image of its Maker—God,— Whose mind was vital with a noble zeal The treasures of the Gospel to reveal To strangers dwelling on a distant shore,— Whose vast possessions were unknown before,— To follow in the path his Saviour trod, And preach the Gospel in a land devoid Of the home-comforts his dear France supplied. And in that wilderness he toiled and died, Among the children of his fostering care, Whose “ death-chant ” swelling on the frosty air, More eloquent than eulogies of bards, Proclaimed his greatness and his rich rewards.
Such was his mission and how well It was performed the records nobly tell. They tell of vigils by the mountain streams— Of perils where the morning’s early beams’ Burst in their grandeur over trackless floods And purple ridges of surrounding woods. Where from the North the piercing Arctic breeze Swept in its frenzy over frozen seas,— Where Huron tosses in its mad unrest Or waves lie sleeping on its peaceful breast, The “King of waters” rolls with sullen roar, Its surges breaking on a rugged, shore,— Where summer bloomed upon a forest wild, And Nature on a glorious landscape smiled, The missionary fixed his rude abode And paved for Commerce and the Arts the road.
A waiting race soon-thronged this vast domain And cities reared'upon the fertile plain,— And white-winged commerce came with equal ease And plowed the waters of those “ inland seas.” No tyrant emperors nor kings had they,— No lying bronze nor marble to portray The fulsome flatteries of a fawning race, Whose praise or censure is alike—disgrace. They were a race who worshipped liberty—
Whose highest boast was that of being free,— And they, within the jewelled crown of State, Have set a gem of worth exceeding great, A gem the pureness of whose brilliant rays Reflects upon the Nation highest praise,— They who reward the deeds that good men do Win for themselves renown and honor too.
D.
Alchemy and the Alchemists.
JU.—Astrology and Alchemistic Eccentricities.
But before going further, it would not, probably, be out of place to say a word about that intimate connection, which so long existed between those two kindred branches of mystic knowledge—astrology and alchemy—one of which was by many regarded as the complementary part of the other. It is a notorious fact that the alchemists, a few laudably excepted, attributed the failure or success of their operations to the influence of the heavenly bodies. They imagined a certain sympathy to exist between the seven then-known metals and the seven planets, and accordingly each of the metals was placed under the influence of a certain one of the planets, from which also it took its name. Gold was called the sun, then regarded as a planet; silver, Diana, or the moon, also counted among the planets; quicksilver,Mercury, a name it still retains; iron, Mars; copper, Venus; lead, Saturn; and tin, Jupiter.
To carry on their work successfully, it was necessary to be guided by the position occupied by these heavenly bodies at any given time. If the house of which one of the planets was lord was in a certain part of the heavens, their experiments would be successful, otherwise they would prove fruitless. To each of the twelve houses into winch, the heavens were divided, was assigned a peculiar virtue or influence. An operation, consequently, that would be successful under the influence of one house while in the ascendant, would fail if attempted under the influence of another house occupying the same position, although an hour might not intervene between the happy conclusion of the operation in the first case and its ineffectual repetition in the second. This connection between astrology and alchemy had its origin with the Arabs, and lasted until the introduction of chemistry, properly so called, in the latter half of the 17th century.
Before quitting this part of our subject, it may be of interest to say a few words concerning some of the peculiar customs in vogue among the cultivators of the Hermetic art. Before commencing their operations, the alchemists, at least many of them, were accustomed to recite certain special prayers or verses collected from various sources, in order thereby to render the powers of Nature more favor
484	THE SCHOLASTIC.
able towards them and to obtain the necessary assistance to succeed in their great undertaking. A particular virtue was attached to the recitation of a celebrated hymn the composition of which was attributed to Hermes Trismegistes. The following is the beginning of the hymn, which is throughout a sublime invocation of the Supreme Being .— “Universe be attentive to my prayer; Earth be thou opened and may all the mass of waters be disclosed to me. Trees shake not: I wish to praise the Lord of creation,— The One and the AU—td pan kdi th ^n. Let the heavens be opened and the winds be hushed. Immortal cycle of God, hear my prayer. Mayall my faculties celebrate The One and the AR^ Some also recited the following verse of the Psalmist:—“As silver tried by the fire, purged from the earth, refined seven times: Argentum igne examinatum, probatum terra, purgatum septuplum (Psalm, xi, 7), and they considered this to be proof positive that David had a knowledge of their art, if he was not its inventor. The following allegorical lines of a hymn formerly sung in certain churches was also in great repute among the alchemists, who took special pleasure in counting St. John among the adepts: “He gets a treasure inexhaustible, who from sticks makes gold, gems from stones.”
■	“ Inexhaustumfert thesaurum,	'
■	Qui de virgisfacit aurum,
Gemmas de lapidibus.”
Basil Valentine recommends before commencing the great work, the invocation of God, the Trinity, and the Saints; for, says he, “the entrails of the earth are not opened to the godless; they are disclosed only to the holy and devout.” “Intima viscera natura nunquam impiopa-tefiunt; qua nisi pits et sanctis viris manifestantur"
Others, concealing their ignorance under the veil of obscure mysticism, pretended to have in their service the spirits of darkness and to be capable of evoking at will the dead and demons. (See Life of John Dee, Kelly, Albert Alaski, etc.) Even some who were really learned and men of genius, as Paracelsus, were no better in this respect. They had their laboratories, that is those who could afford one, fitted up in the most fantastic manner imaginable. Near the entrance might be seen an androides—an automatic machine of human form, and capable, by means of ingeniously arranged springs, of performing some of the actions of a living man;—in some other conspicuous place a stuffed crocodile; here the skeleton of a full-grown man; there the embalmed body of an infant; whilst in the midst of the room, on a stand ornamented with strange devices, might be seen a book of spells; and near to it, probably, various instruments of astrologic art, horoscopes, astrolabes, etc. Hard by were several old tomes, treating of the Opus Magnum, written, it was said, by Hermes Trismegistes, Geber, and other noted adepts in the art. Everything was designed to strike the beholder with awe, and to induce in his mind a high opinion of the powers of the owner of this mysterious place. The uncouth appearance and external habiliments of the alchemist himself corresponded perfectly with the strange appurtenances of the place in which he carried on his great work of chrysopcea. For the uninitiated to enter this sanctum unbidden, with a view of prying into and divulging the secrets of the craft, was certain death—the demon in the employ of the alchemist taking upon himself, in the absence of his master, the office of punishing the rash intruder. (Tide Story of Cornelius Aggrippa). But this en passant. Those desiring a more detailed narrative of the alchemists arc referred to any of the
numerous histories which have been written of them. The curious reader is also referred to Scott’s “ Antiquary ” and “Kenilworth,” in which, in the picturesque account of some of his characters, he gives a very correct idea of those cunning impostors who have ever played such a conspicuous part in the history of alchemy.
[to be continued.]
American Artists.
WASHINGTON ALLSTON.
On a calm evening of July, 1843, a procession was seen wending its silent way through the deeply-shaded paths at Mount Auburn. The procession was lighted on its way by torches, which marked the whole line of mourners, friends and admirers of the greatest painter which America can, as yet, claim—Washington Allston. The mourning train had come from the modest dwelling in which for several years he had fixed his abode on Auburn street, Cambridge—or, as this part of the city is more generally called, Cambridgeport—a spot which it should be the pride of every American citizen to see preserved in its identity. To those who were privileged during his life-time to witness the charm 'thrown over those quiet rooms by his very presence,' the place seems to belong by right of association to one whose name will not die; while to us, who became familiar with it after his death, the veneration for departed genius so natural to the human heart, gave an untold attraction to everything connected with Mr. Allston.
We were still in the midst of an academic course in one of the most beautiful of New England villages when the news of Mr. Allston’s death went over the land. The intelligence, with all the details of burial by torch-light, lost nothing in being orally communicated by an accomplished classical and English scholar, in whom his pupils never saw a fault, instead of learning it through the columns of an illustrated newspaper, as people do nowadays. We shall never forget the breathless hush in the large studyhall when this description was given by a .teacher who never lost an opportunity to impress a lesson in beauty of life and action on the minds of his pupils, and who chose the blameless career of Washington Allston as one precious beyond the ordinary course of even blameless lives, for it was'exalted by genius.
Years afterwards, when we became familiar with his works, not only with those in public galleries, but in the homes of Boston; and not only with those, but with others, cherished by the friends he loved best on earth, how near we seemed to come to the very artist himself! Especially did this seem true when we saw, day after day, the youthful portrait of the artist, painted by his own hand, before he was twenty years of age. The likeness of his mother, also, with the fall of choice lace over a lovely brow; studied, too, the pictures they told us he cared most for on the walls of his home; and, above all, when whole volumes of those wonderful outlines of some of his greatest works were laid on our writing-table for weeks together as an habitual companion, and as a constant incentive to study, by the gentle, appreciative woman who so faithfully cherished his memory. These outlines were da-guerreotyped on plate, and then engraved, by those two artists worthy to stand among the artist-goldsmiths of Florence aud of Siena—Seth and John Cheney. Still, there was something in the pen-and-ink outlines traced by
THE SCHOLASTIC.	485
the hand of the master himself, which took a far deeper hold on the imagination and the heart.
Afterwards we took pains to see every picture on. this side of the water painted by Mr. Allston. And of what homes were they not the precious treasures! No costly furniture was allowed to destroy the harmonious effects of those mellow tints, those softened lights, those ethereal expressions ; and the testimony thus given to the esteem in which they were held had something touching in it, for which strangers to New England life and sentiment might not have been prepared. Fashion uncrowned herself in order to do homage to art
Washington Allston was born at Waccamaw, South Carolina, on his father’s plantations, November 5, 1779. His temperament was highly nervous, his mind quick and active, and his sensibility acute. His health, as might be expected, was delicate, and while he was still very young, it became evident that he needed a more bracing air than that of his native State, while his mind required a greater variety and scope than was afforded by a plantation life. Physician and teacher thus united in advising the removal of the gifted boy to a northern school. At that period there was no town in New England which could boast of a more cultivated society than Newport, Rhode Island. Allston was sent there with a view to his health, at seven years of age; but he remained until he was seventeen, and attended a very excellent school kept by Mr. Robert Rogers. Although the opportunities for enjoying or for practising art in those days were very few in the States, yet Newport enjoyed an unusual share of these opportunities, so attractive to the Carolina boy whose school-days were passed there. The first English painter of note who came to our shores in 1728 visited Newport, and Gilbert Stuart, born in 1757, owed his first encouragement as a painter to Newport friends. While Allston was a schoolboy there, a manufacturer of quadrants and compasses, by the name of King, who had received the rudiments of an artistic education, sometimes painted a portrait. ' This man had an attraction for the boy-artist; and the boy gave him pleasure in return. He soon discovered the genius of his young friend, and gave him essential help, by correcting his early attempts and giving him an idea of the best methods. Long afterwards his casual pupil spoke of him with gratitude. “ It was a pleasant thing to me,” he wrote, “ to remind the old man of those kindnesses.” A portrait of this venerable friends—probably the earliest experiment made by Allston in oil—still exists at Newport. The head is noble in outline and the expression benign, while a discriminating eye can also perceive distinct indications of that mellow tone and felicity in coloring which afterwards distinguished Mr. Allston’s pictures.	* * *
The Abbot Bessarion.
The holy Abbot, in the burning noon, Walked, by the sea, in pious thought immersed;
' His worn disciple, faintly following, cried, “ My father, help me, for I die of thirst!”
The Abbot turned, some holy thought within, ‘ As he made answer, shining through his face: “ My son, drink of this water here, and find
How faith works miracles in every place.”
His worn disciple drank; and lo ! the wave Was sweet as mountain streamlet to his taste.
He gave God thanks; then, stooping, filled his flask “ Why do you this ? ” Bessarion asked in haste.
The youth replied, “ Lest I again should thirst”
His master gazed at him with tender care;
“ God pardon thee, my son! Thou shouldst believe He can provide sweet water anywhere! ”
—Sowdoin Orient.	Z. y.
Ths Haights Templars.
There is not in all history a subject more deeply interesting and, at the same time more grossly misrepresented, than that of the Templars, or Knights of the Temple; a world-renowned, order, whose ranks have so well served the cause of Christendom. Their foundation dates from the year 1118, at which time Hugh de Payns, a nobleman of Champagne, and other illustrious knights, meeting before the Holy Sepulchre, resolved to devote their swords to the defence of the true faith against the Saracens. The' order was guided by the sole object of protecting pilgrims against the arms and savage fury of the Mussulmen, and of guarding the roads that led to Jerusalem. Like the Hospitallers, they followed the rule of St. Augustine, which consisted of the four vows—obedience, poverty, chastity, and devotion to the defence of the pilgrims against the unbelievers. The first house which they possessed was situated in the Holy City near the site of the Temple of Solomon; hence their name of Templars, which has been made so variously celebrated by their military exploits and tragic end. They wore a peculiar dress, consisting of a white mantle ornamented with a bright red cross. So long as the Templars observed the vow of poverty they were as truly the ornament of religion by their virtues as they had been its bulwark by their valor. St. Bernard’s praise was but the expression of truth, when, in-the middle of the twelfth century, he eulogized their piety, courage and devotion to the Church. When, however, their valor and exploits against the Saracens had gained for the order an extraordinary reputation and immense riches, the vices' which usually follow in the train of opulence found an easy entrance among them. Those men whose life should have been ruled by charity, were seen displaying a scandalous magnificence—and living, as it were, on terms of equality with kings. Thus did wealth generate among them a spirit of arrogance and independence which exasperated both the civil and the ecclesiastical authorities. While the great struggle between the Christians and Mohammedans was raging in the East, the many brilliant exploits of the Knights and their signal services to the cause of religion were powerful palliatives to the charges brought against their private life. So affairs stood while they retained the field; the public mind, dazzled by their splendid feats of arms, would give no ear to the charges brought against them, and great indignation was excited against the authors of what were then supposed to be calumnies. When, however, the fall of Ptolemais, by closing the field of their glory, obliged them to return to the peaceful life of the convent, the un£,yorable reports'1 circulated against them began to gain more and more credence, so much so indeed that it was thought advisable’ to make new inquiries, the result of which induced Philip the Fair to have all the Templars of his kingdom arrested on the same day, the thirteenth of October (A. Dl 1307). This blow had been prepared with a degree of secresy that
486'
THE SCHOLASTIC
is truly remarkable; for on the same day all the Templars, in France, not excepting the Grand Master, were arrested, confined in prisons and their property confiscated. When Clement V, who had received no intimation of the affair, was informed of this encroachment upon ecclesiastical jurisdiction, since the Templars were a religious order and depended upon the Holy See, he wrote to the king, in a tone expressive of the deepest indignation: “You have overstepped the bounds of your authority in constituting yourself the judge of immediate subjects of the Church, and by seizing upon their possessions.” He accordingly called up the whole case of the Templars before his own tribunal ; and dispatched legates to Paris demanding from the king the surrender of the Knights, in order that he might treat the matter in due legal order. The, Pope by thus calling the case before his tribunal disconcerted the plans of Philip; still he submitted, and sent to Poitiers a report of all the examinations made by his order, with seventy-two knights, who, without constraint or torture, confessed, before the Pope, themselves guilty of the principal crimes laid to their charge. Struck at the unanimity that existed in the accusations, testimonies and free avowals of so many persons, several of whom he himself had examined, he wrote to all the Christian princes in Europe that they might take proper measures against the evil. The world might well have stood aghast when a religious order, instituted for the defence of the faith, confessed, as a general custom in their order, “ the horrible impiety of denying Christ, of trampling upon the august sign of salvation, the worship of obscene idols, the practice of the most shameful disorders, and that an assent to all these impieties was a necessary condition for admission into the order.”
The inquiries about the Templars and their different trials having now occupied nearly five years, the Pope, with a view to close this immense procedure, and to decide a question which held the world in suspense, convoked a general council to be held at Vienne, in France, towards the close of the year 1311. From this council it became evident that many individuals had been guilty of enormous crimes, but there was not equal evidence to implicate the whole order; however, it was clear it had degenerated, and that, instead of being of any further utility, it was an object of scandal to the Church. Some of the fathers in the Pope’s Council were of the opinion that punishment should be inflicted only upon the individuals who were guilty, and not upon the Order in general; while the majority maintained the necessity of suppressing an Order whose corruption was proved by the united testimony of more than two thousand witnesses. Clement V, therefore, came to the conclusion that the Order of the Knights Templars could no longer be tolerated with propriety, and he accordingly published the bull of suppression (April 3,1312.) In order to show that the suppression was irrevocable, and that no one might afterwards enter the Order, wear its dress, or bear the name of Templar, he transferred the property of the Order to the Knights Hospitallers, who, more faithful to the primitive rules of their noble vocation, were still fighting the battles of Christendom against the infidels, from whose hands they had just received the island of Rhodes. Clemency was urged in favor of the knights who showed signs of repentance, and they were to receive, from the property of the suppressed Order, an honorable maintenance to support and console their broken and branded existence. Those, however, who still obstinately asserted their innocence and even retracted their former acknowl
edgments of guilt, were delivered over to the secular authority to be treated according to the rigor of the law. Fifty-nine were burned at the stake in Paris, near the Porte Saint-Antoine. The Grand Master, James of Molay, who had repeatedly confessed the guilt of the Order, on hearing the sentence of perpetual imprisonment pronounced, suddenly exclaimed that the Order was innocent and had been calumniated. The officers of the Papal council, being unwilling to act hastily in this unexpected occurrence, sent Molay back into custody and prepared to deliberate on the subject. Philip, having heard what had happened, and being highly incensed, ordered, without consulting the Pope, the execution of Molay. That very same day (March 11,1314) he was burned alive on a small island of the Seine. It is said that the Grand Master, as the flames enwrapped him, summoned the Pope to appear before the tribunal of the Sovereign Judge within forty days and the king within a year. The story, although popularly believed, is without proof Thus fell that renowned Order of the Templars, the sufferings and final overthrow of which are still a subject of deep interest, although between them and us a period of five centuries has elapsed.
Philip, it must be confessed, acted a little hastily in burning the Templars; still, as regards the punishment, he merely followed the jurisprudence commonly adopted in those ages against heinous crimes. Nevertheless, the memory of the Sovereign Pontiff should not, on that account, be blighted with the shadow-of a reproach; for the line between his conduct and that of Philip’s is distinctly marked. The main portion of the transaction being thus stated from authentic sources, it is impossible to consider the duration of the inquiries; the fair manner in which they were conducted; the agreement in the avowals made by the accused in so many different places, and not be fully convinced that the Templars deserved to be suppressed, and that the sentence pronounced in the council of Vienne was just, proper, and of great service to religion and society.	Thomas Childs.
J;
-	Society Notes.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association held its 33rd regular meeting April 20th. The Moot Court occupied all the time of this meeting. The 34th regular meeting took place May 3rd. After the regular exercises were concluded the members tendered an unanimous vote of thanks to the Editor of the Scholastic, Profs. T. O’Mahony, A. M., and M. Foote, for valuable assistance rendered in the preparation of the Moot Court.
—The St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association held its 29th and 30th regular meetings respectively April 19th and May 1st. The fol lowing deserve mention for declamations: L. Pilliod, H. Quan, W. Roelie, J. Del Vecchio, J. Nelson, E. Davis, J. Colton, J. French and C. R. Post. Master L. Pilliod was then elected second Vice-President, IV. G. Morris Corresponding Secretary, T. Hoffman and E. Washburn 3rd and 4th Censors.
—The 54th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held May 2d. At this meeting Messrs. Crummey, Marks and Soule delivered declamations, and Messrs. Lyons, McNulty, Hunt and Ratigan read essays. The following subject was chosen for next debate: Resolved “That the Indian has Suffered More than the Negro from the White man.” The following are the debaters on the affirmative: Monahan, Hunt and Soule; on the negative: Mooney, Campbell and O’Connell. After a few remarks by the President the meeting adjourned.
—The Scientific Association held its fifth regular meeting on Sunday evening, May 2, when Rev. Mr. Zahm concluded his pleasing lecture on “Alchemy and the Alche
THE SCHOLASTIC.
48>
mists.” The Rev. gentleman treated the subject in a very-able and interesting manner. His lecture showed a vast amount of research, and great depth of thought. He showed the great benefits accruing to science from the seemingly blind, though unremitting labors of the alchemists, and how science in her steady march towards perfection might yet reveal facts which would confirm many of the statements of the alrhemists.
Ssientific Notes.
—An interesting discovery has been made at Les Corbieres, on the top of the mountain overhanging Padern, of a grotto containing among other prehistoric relics pieces of shells carefully cut into hooks and pierced for suspension from the neck, which evidently were the knives used in remote ages.
—At the Brighton (England) Aquarium a remarkable circumstance connected with the breeding of octopus has taken place in tank 25. A female had deposited a quantity of eggs, but died, as these animals often do, in spawning. The male has taken charge of the whole, and may be seen constantly guarding them.
—By the will of Sir Charles Lyell, the sum of £2,000 is bequeathed to the Geological Society for the purpose of founding a fund for promoting geological research. The award is to be accompanied by a “ Lyell Medal,” and, according to Sir Charles’ will, is to be open to geologists of any nationality, or of either sex.
—An interesting numismatic discovery was made the other day at Bourbonne-les-Bains, Department of Haute-Marne, in France. In making excavations for the public baths and reservoirs now in course of construction, the workmen came upon a large number of Roman coins and medals, respectively of bronze, silver, and gold. Between 4,000 and 5,000 pieces in all have been already removed to the museum—namely, 4,000 bronze, 300 silver, and a few gold coins; the latter are in size equal to French pieces of forty francs, and bear the portraits of Nero, Hadrian, Hono-rius, and Faustina Senior, wife of Antoninus Pius.
—Mr. James Hartness, of Detroit, thinks he has invented a balloon that, with a motive power, can be driven through the air against a moderate wind, and steered in any desired direction. The balloon is to be in compartments, exactly similar to the sections of an orange. Coiled steel springs are to turn wheels, and the steering apparatus, which is in front of the boat, consists of two pieces of framework covered with strong canvas crossing each other longitudinally and at right angles. This is attached to the front of the boat in such a way that it may be lowered, elevated, or swung to either side, at will. By lowering it, the wind strikes the broad surface and sends the balloon downward; by elevating it, the balloon will, on the same principle be sent upward; if turned to the right or left, the balloon will be directed in the same direction.
—The Engineer has elaborated some curious statistics on the subject of the channel tunnel between France and England, and arrives at the conclusion that, having regard to the number of trains sent through daily, it will be necessary, if ordinary locomotives are used, to renew the air in the tunnel entirely every hour, and as the tunnel will be twenty miles long, and all the air must be withdrawn from one end or the other, a current of air must be passed through at the rate of twenty miles an hour. These results are of course arrived at on the supposition that the air would be rendered irrespirable by the coke smoke evolved, and the obvious alternative is to apply motive power by means other than those in use on ordinary railways. It has, too, yet to be decided by the engineering world whether the erection of a shaft or shafts in the channel is practicable.
—Dynamite, or giant-powder, may be transported by all ordinary means of conveyance in every climate and temperature without danger of explosion. Several European Governments allow it to pass as common freight. The secret of its safety lies in the fact that the absorbent is soft, compressible, and elastic, and is no more affected by a blow than is a cushion. It has been subjected to the sever
est tests by scientific men and experts of every sort, and has proved by its conduct that the only means of exploding it is by a large and powerful percussion-cap. In contact with fire it burns to ashes like saltpetre paper. A lot of 8,000 pounds has been burned at once without exploding. It may be poured upon a red-hot plate, or a red-hot poker maybe thrust into it; a box of it may be thrown upon rocks from any height, so that the box is shattered; heavy weights may be thrown upon it; it may be beaten with a sledge-hammer; it may be held in the hand and set on fire, ana when half-consumed be extinguished with water; all this may be done and the powder will refuse to explode.’
—The eminent Catholic astronomer, Mr. Richard Proctor, has recently written to the Times as follows:—"Dean Stanley claims a higher position for Galileo than can correctly be assigned to him. Apart from the indubitable position of Copernicus as the father of modem astronomy, Galileo was neither the first Copernican nor the most successful of the early Copernicans in helping to place the modern system on a sound scientific basis. His attention was first directed to the Copernican system by reports of the lectures of Wurteisen. In a letter to Kepler, dated 1597, Galileo mentions that he had adopted the new system several years before, though he continued to teach the Ptolemaic system. Kepler himself had embraced the Copernican doctrine in 1591 or 1592, his teacher being the celebrated Mdstlin. So far as the modem system depends on ‘ discoveries,’ Kepler and Newton must be regarded as its founders—the first by discovering the laws which bear his name, the second by discovering the law of gravitation. Galileo’s discoveries with the telescope afforded more striking popular evidence—that is, evidence more easily understood—in favor of the Copernican theory; but these discoveries were an inevitable sequel of Jansen’s invention of the telescope, as is shown by the fact that others independently discovered most of the phenomena noticed by Galileo. I mention these facts because the common error respecting Florence’s great natural philosopher detracts unfairly from the credit due to Copernicus, Kepler, and Newton, as the men whose conjoint labors established the modem system of astronomy. It may be added that Galileo’s ‘Systems Mundi,’ the work which led to the atrocious persecution whereby his name has been rendered famous, was published in 1632; Kepler’s ‘Harmonia Mundi’ (the key-stone of the Copernican system as a kinetic explanation of the planetary motions) thirteen years earlier, in 1619.
—For one hundred and fifty years critics have disputed over the correct way to spell the name of Shakespeare. The troy Times thinks that the reason that the Bard of Avon induced Juliet to enquire, “ What’s in a name ?” was for the purpose of discovering the correct orthography of his own name, and says that in some of the earlier editions of Shakespeare it reads “ What’s in his name or, in plain languag, “ How many letters are in his (Shakespeare’s) name?” The spelling of Shakespeare’s name has been an orthographical puzzle that critics for a century and a half have labored over. Stevens, Drake, Dr. Johnson, Reed, Hazlitt, Chateaubriand, Lamartine, Ulrich and Bodenstedt spell the name with ten letters, thus—Shaks-peare. Chidworth, Mason, Heath, Lord Campbell, White Guizot and Horn insist on eleven letters, thus—Shakespeare; while still others, though less in number and ab-n ility’ declare for only nine letters, thus—Shakspere.
—Five hundred volumes have been given to the Catholic University College, England, by the Rev. J. O’Fallon Pope, an Oxford student recently converted, now a student in Rome. Three hundred volumes by Mr. John Leeming. In addition to the above, a large library of 10,000 volumes is being treated for, together with an herbarium, the whole being the fruit of the labors of the late Dr. Shuttleworth. There has been secured the geological collection of Prof. Maurice, of the London University. Pro£ Mivart has formed a typical museum for physiological and anatomical purposes, which now forms an admirable teaching museum, and Prof. Barff has directed the erection and fitting up of a complete chemical laboratory, affording accommodation for the practical instruction of twenty-five students.—London Register.
.468
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The SubulastiB, Published every Week during Term Time at NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame. Indiana.
TERMS:
Oneyear..............................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
The Scholastic for the 2nd. Session.
- The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is fifty cents ; besides which all new subscribers are requested to send ten, cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of ths Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
—There was a time when the Kreuz-zeitung of Berlin was hand and glove with Bismarck in regard to his policy relating to Church-matters and religion in Prussia. It was the great and special organ of the German Chancellor and his party. Every act which they did, and every law which they passed, was upheld and praised by it. But a change has come over the spirit of its dreams. Bismarck and his polity no longer has any charms for it. The laws which have been passed by a servile reichstag at the order of the Chancellor are no longer hailed as just and right. It seems that the Evangelical Church in Prussia does not recognize all divorces as legitimate, and its ministers have on this account always refused to celebrate religiously the marriages of divorced persons. The laws, however, passed in Berlin, although directed primarily against Catholics, apply equally to all denominations, and the Evangelicals find that no exception is made for them even though the Emperor himself belongs to their Church. Under these laws a decree has been issued from the President of the Grand Consistory ordering the Protestant clergy, making no exceptions, to celebrate with their religious ceremonies the marriages of divorced persons. If these clergymen act consistently with their consciences they cannot celebrate these marriages; if they do not celebrate them they are liable to fine and imprisonment. It is this decree of the Grand Consistory against which the Kreuiz-zeitung protests and on which the split between it and the Chancellor of the Empire has taken place.
But Prince von Bismarck is not the man to'allow a newspaper to differ with impunity from his policy. The Kreuz-zeitung was brought up before the court and the editor arraigned on the charge of exciting to rebellion against the decree of the president of the Grand Consistory. It is not necessary to state that the editor of the paper was found guilty; that follows as a matter of course in a court in Prussia when the party of Prince von Bismarck have anyone arraigned. The Government prosecutor demanded that the editor be visited with six months’ imprisonment; but the accused, having in open court repeated all his charges, made his escape with a conviction for libel only. He was not sent to prison, but he had laid on him a fine of six-hundred thalers. Open hospitality to all the religious legislation of the Government party is now the declared policy of the paper. The organ of the Evangelicals, or the “ Orthodox” party in Prussia takes upon itself to oppose the many laws of the German Government.
What now will the American press, which has seen nothing but justice in the persecuting laws against Catholics, do when they find their brethren in Prussia protesting
a gainst these very laws? It was all very well as long as these laws were enforced against such noble and upright men as Ledochowski and the Bishops and Priests throughout the Empire; but now When these same laws work against the Evangelicals it is quite another thing altogether. It is a different ox that is gored now, and complaints are all proper enough!
We do not blame the Evangelicals for feeling aggrieved and for expressing. their opposition to the iniquitous laws. It is proper that they should complain. But at the same time does it not look very strange that the same paper and the same party should have praised the legislation of the German Government so long as Catholics alone were aggrieved by them? If they were just laws when they were not enforced against the Evangelicals, why are they not still just? Have the Evangelicals any rights of conscience which others have not ?
No! the laws were unjust when they were first passed and continue to be so. Were they changed now so as to apply to the Evangelicals alone, we would still say they were unjust. The fact is that Bismarck is a tyrant, and the Evangelicals are beginning to see this and to feel the effect of his tyranny.
Correspondence.
New York, May 3,1875.
Editor Scholastic Last Friday, April 30th, there was a public exhibition at the Kurtz Gallery of some eighty pictures which belong to Col. H. T. Chapman, Jr., and which could not be included in his late great sale o pictures. Among the many excellent pictures exhibited is a beautiful sunset sketch by Church, probably equal to anything in that line which has ever come from his brush. Pictures by J. Beaufain Irving, M. F. H. de Haas, S. J. Guy, Winslow Homer and David Col are in the collection; and there are also many specimens of the Dusseldorf, French and Munich schools. Bierstadt’s landscape in this gallery is far better than his pictures on exhibition at the Academy. The pictures will be sold on the 5th inst.
The sale of Mr. Avery’s paintings will take place at the Somerville Gallery to-morrow. There are no American artists represented in this collection, which contains spec! mens of many renowned artists of the modern French, Spanish and Italian schools.
On the 30th of last month the Spanish residents of New York commemorated the 259th anniversary of the death ot the immortal author of “ Don Quixote,” Cervantes. New York is probably the most cosmopolitan of cities. We celebrate the anniversaries of the great men of all nations.
Mr. Robert Goldbeck’s concert on the 30th ult., at Steinway Hall, was an enjoyable affair. The programme was made up entirely of compositions by Mr. Goldbeck. This fact of course would make it more difficult for the performers to please the audience, yet the composer succeeded in interesting the listeners the whole evening.
At the late Philharmonic concert Miss Julia Reeve, a young pianist, made her debut with great success. She has been studying for some time under Liszt, and her playing shows that she possesses much talent.
A large audience greeted Mr. Sweet at his concert. This gentleman is undoubtedly the best American baritone we have. He goes to Europe, I understand, in order to perfect his musical education.	■
THE SCHOLASTIC.	459
The Dan Bryant Benefit night here was a great night at the theatres. The sum of §20,000 was taken in by the managers, who will turn it over to the committee appointed to manage the fund. Yours, Rafael.
Art Notes.
—The Andrews collection of paintings in New York sold at auction for §31,000.
—The British Royal Academy this year has received 6,006 pictures for exhibition. Some of these will of course be rejected.
—Simmons, the sculptor, is completing his United States naval monument, upon which he has been engaged for four years.
—The late J. H. Foley is represented this year in the Royal Academy Exhibition by works in marble, bronze and plaster.
—Mr. Wm. Bradford has sailed for England, taking with him his recently completed picture, “ The Polaris in Thank God Harbor.”
—The municipality of Seville are preparing a testimonial to Mr. Schaus, the New York art dealer, for his services in procuring the restoration of the stolen Murillo “ St. Anthony of Padua.”
—M. Casimir de Balthasar, a painter of talent, died recently at Paris. His principal works were “Joan of Arc in Prison,” “Philip de Valois after his defeat at Crecy” and the “ Death of Lora.”
—David Sinton has decided to erect on the Fifth Street Market space, Cincinnati, Ohio, a granite tower one hun-dred'and sixty feet high, surmounted by a colossal statue of Cininnatus habited in a toga. The tower will cost §50,000.
—The Chicago Typographical Union are to have a painted portrait of the late A. M. Talley, the pioneer printer of Chicago. We hear it rumored that Prof. Gregori is to be the. artist selected to paint the picture. Mr. Talley was for 23 years the foreman of the Democrat office, under the Hon. Jno. Wentworth. He was well known to the craft as the “ Franklin of Chicago.”
—Meissonier’s third picture in four years has just been exhibited in Paris. It is less than a foot in height and barely more than a foot in width, and represents a halt of horsemen in the days of the First Empire. It is praised as a miracle of accuracy and of spirit; and has been bought at the price of 120,000 francs, or §24,000 in gold, by a private collector who ordered it three years ago.
—Gustav Dore, the distinguished French artist, will visit America, to be present at the Centennial. He will be the guest of our esteemed friend, the popular artist, Colonel JohnR. Johnston. It is the intention of the Colonel to get up an art excursion over the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, and through the far West. Mr. John W. Garrett will furnish the art excursion party with a special car over all their connections of railroads, in compliment to the greatest artist in designing that has ever lived. All the arrangements are completed, and only await the arrival of th’e distinguished visitor, Gustav Dore. Colonel Johnston is a personal friend of Dore, having known him in Paris. The excursion party will consist of some twenty-five of the most prominent artists and literary men of America. It is thought Dore will send some of his best pictures to exhibit while he is here at the Centennial. There is a great curiosity in this country to sec this celebrated painter and draughtsman.
—“To paint Cuirassiers,” said Meissonier, “I must needs see them.” He accordingly took a dozen of this corps to his country-house, where they were required to charge down the park every morning; but the evolution did not last long, and, before the artist had sketched an outline of the group, the gallant fellows were out of sight. “You must follow them by train,” said a friend. No sooner said than done. An engineer was summoned, rails were laid down, rolling stock purchased, and for several weeks Meissonier accompanied the charge of his models by train. But it was summer, and historical accuracy required that the Cuirassiers should dash over snowy
ground. Thousands of bushels of flour were then laid down in the park, and the Cuirassiers as they charged became enveloped in clouds of farina. The illusion was complete, the studies admirable, and the finished picture sold for millions. In emulation of Meissonier’s careful realism, Mrs. Elizabeth Thompson, in her efforts to obtain accuracy in her new picture of a cavalry charge, had a field trodden down by horses so that she could draw the bruised grass.
—The eminent artist, distinguished traveller, and venerable patriarch, Baron Jean Fredrick de Waldeck whose death, in the 110th year of his age, took place a few days since, was born in Rome, Italy. He was the descendant of an ancient family of the Italian nobility. His family attracting the enmity of his government, the family were banished, and took refuge in France. Here De Waldeck devoted himself to painting and music, and without attracting cosmopolitan fame to his name as an artist, earned a very comfortable livelihood. During the first years of Marie Antoinette’s sojourn in France he was her teacher upon the harp, and she also studied Italian under his tutelage. At the first outbreak of the French revolution of 1692 he fled from France and travelled for a time in Germany, but becoming discontented he returned during the First Empire and joined the ranks of the French army, fighting under Napoleon at Austerlitz and in several other preceding battles. He was three times married and was the father of a numerous progeny, his last son being bom after he had attained his eighty-fifth year. Of late years he has given much time to the study of modern languages, for- which he always posessed great aptitude, and he was said to be able to speak all the tongues of the leading nations of Europe fluently, and to have had a passable knowledge of twenty-one European and Asiatic languages. Even in years just passed he manifested no indication of his very advanced age, being both physically and mentally in possession of all his faculties, walking erect without a cane, and conversing with great intelligence upon both past and present, political, and social events. Altogether he was considered the most remarkable centenarian of the age, and was always a welcome guest and great favorite in artistic, musical and dramatic circles in the French capital. —Chicago Times.
—Of the Centennial Monuments to be erected in Philadelphia the N. Y. Tribune Correspondence says: ‘\The most important of these monuments is the Catholic fountain, for which §40,000 has been raised by the Catholic Temperance Union of America. In the centre of the fountain there will stand a colossal statue of Moses smiting the rock, from which the water will flow into a marble basin, on the corners of which will be statues of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, Bishop Carroll'of Maryland; the first American commissioner to Canada; Commodore Barry, “the father of the American navy;” and Bather Mathew. The central figure will be 15 feet high, and the other 9 feet. All will be made of bronze. The artist is Hermann Kerns of Philadelpha, who is now modelling the statue in the studio of Charles Steinhauser, his preceptor, at Carlsruhe, Baden. . . . The statue of Toleration, which the Hebrews will erect, is being made in Rome by Ezekiel, a young Cincinnati sculptor. It is a female figure in marble, 10 feet high, pointing to heaven with one hand, and with the other holding a shield over the figure of a boy kneeling at her feet. Freedom protecting religion is the meaning of the group. The cost will be §25,000, which is provided for by the'B’nai Birth Association. . . . The movement among the Presbyterians for a statue of Witherspoon has made such progress that there is no doubt of its success, and I believe the order has already been given for a figure in marble, 11 feet high, to cost §25,000, but I have not learned the name of the artist. . . . Last among the statues which have some religious significance is that of William Penn. In this case, however, the significance lies entirely in the man who is to be represented in bronze, and does not proceed from the people who seek to commemorate him. The statue is not the gift of the Quakers. . . . It is to the commissioners of the new Philadelphia public buildings that the people will be indebted for the colossal figure of the founder, 30 feet high, which will crown George’s Hill in the park. Eventually they intend to transfer it to the dome of the new city hall. The artist is Mr. Bailey, of this city, and the casting will be done here at Wood’s foundry. The German societies of Philadelphia have subscribed §18,000 for a statue of Humboldt, which is being made by Prof. Drache of Berlin. It will be of marble, 7 feet in he.ght, and its unveiling will be made the occasion of a distinctive German celebration. A statue of Columbus, in marble, has been ordered in Rome by the Columbus Monument association, an organization of Italians formed in this city last
490
THE SCHOLASTIC.
year. The cost of the work will be $12,000. Of Miss Harreit, Hosmer’s statue of Emancipation very little is known. She is now engaged upon it in Rome, but according to report permits no one to see the model. It is a gift from herself, and is designed to commemorate the second of the two greatest evnets in the nation’s history. . . . The eighth monument is a national monument of Liberty, for which subscriptions are solicited by a society of which President Grant is the head, and a number of prominent persons are directors. A model has been prepared by W. W. Story and accepted by the directors, and enough of money has been subscribed to make it probable that the enterprise will not miscarry. Of course the site for the monument is Independence Square.”
Musical Notes.
—A new musical journal called the Concordia has appeared in Loudon.
—Madame Pleyel, the pianiste, has bequeathed 10,000 fr. to the Association of Artistes-Musiciens.
—Liszt has been named by the Emperor of Austria, President of an Academy of Music now in process, of organization at Pesth.	.
—A new five-act grand opera, of which M. Kowalski, . the pianist, is both composer and librettist, and of which the scene is laid in Brittanv, is, it is said, to be produced immediately at the Salle Ventadour, with the old troupe of M. Bagier.
—We have received from Fischer & Bro., Dayton, Ohio, a copy of “School Festival Songs” a collection of excellent trios and choruses for even voices. This volume of music will answer well the increasing demand of teachers for music for school-exhibitions. The price of the book is 75 cts., which is a very moderate price for songs by Abt and Karl Merz.
—The Vox Humana, for May, has original and instructive articles on “ True Harmony,” “Old Folks Concerts,” “Quartette Choirs,” “Sound,” etc., and the following very valuable collection of music:—“Schubert’s Serenade,” a new arrangement of “Onward Christian Solders,” “Pauvre Jacques,” “Within a Mile,” the Strauss “Philo-men Waltz,” and Heller’s “Slumber Song.” Surely a great deal for ten cents, or §1 a year. Geo. Woods & Co., Cambridgeport, Mass., are the publishers of this able monthly musical journal.
—Church’s Musical Visitor for May has arrived, and is brighter and better than ever. The publishers of the Fts-itor are making an earnest endeavor to give the art of music a journalistic representative worthy of its importance. The principal contents of this number consist of interesting articles on musical topics, by W. S. B. Mathews, John Howard, Dr. Chomet, F. Crowest, and others. The correspondence is unusally full, and a prominent feature is the space given to information concerning the Cincinnati May Musical Festival.
Thore are five pieces of music; two songs and choruses, one by Persley aud the other by Bliss; a waltz by Root; and the overture to Wagner’s “ Lohengrin.” This music alone is worth much more than the price of subscription to the Visitor, which is only §1.50 per year, including a handsome premium. Specimen copy will be sent to any one on receipt of one stamp, by the publishers, John Church & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.
—In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries there were few public festivals, triumphal processions, or perambulating shows in which trained animals did not occupy a prominent position. A Spanish chronicler gives an account of a procession in Brussels, in 1549, organized for the entertainment of King Philip II. The bands were stationed on a large car; in the centre sat a huge bear playing on an organ; not consisting of reeds and pipe, but of a score of cats, enclosed in separate boxes where they could not move; the tail of each one was drawn out through an aperture, and tied to a string corresponding to one of the keys the instrument, so that when the bear struck these keys the cats’ tails were jerked, and the poor creatures howled in a most dismil manner. There were tenors and basses, and they were trained to mew in concert. Poodles and monkeys danced to the strange music, and, the chronicler goes on to say, “although King Philip was the most
solemn and demure of men, he could not refrain from laughing on beholding this strange sight.”
—The Italian opera season at the Covent Garden Theatre in London was opened on the 31st of March in a most brilliant manner, according to the newspapers. The Observer is very enthusiastic in its review of the first week. The first work sung was “William Tell,” with Maurel in the title part, which he sang in London list year; Marini again as Arnoldo, and Bagaglio, Sabata, Mlle. Seal chi Mlle. Cottmo the less important characters. Mlle. Bianchi made her first appearance in the character of Matilda, and made a decided success. “ She has,” says the Observer “ a bright, fresh voice, sings well and bids fair to take a high rank in art. In the air ‘Selva oraca’ she elicited warm applause from an unusually apathetic audience. We are pleased to chronicle the progress of this young artiste, who made her debut last season as the page Oscar, in Verdi’s ‘Ballo in Maschera.’ ” “ Der Freischutz” was the second opera. The most striking feature in the performance was the Agatha of Mlle. D’Augeri. Verdi’s “Masked Ball” introduced a new tenor—Signor De Sanctis—who was highly praised. On Thursday, the 9th of April, Mlle. Thalberg was to have made her first appearance in “ Don Giovanni.”
Literature.
—Mr. Winwood Read, the author, is dead.
—Miss Muloch is writing a novel illustrative of French life and manners.
—Count Montalembert’s unpublished work entitled “Les Papes Moines ” will appear next October.
—A work on moral Theology by Rev. Dr. Rohling is in press. So we learn from the Salesianum.
—The Duke of Argyle is said to be engaged on a work to appear shortly under the title of “ Law and Theology.”
—The French will this year award, for the first time, the triennial prize of 3,000 francs, founded by M Guizot, for the best work on one of the great epochs of French literature.
—Dr. John Meirs has printed for private circulation two volumes, one consisting of “ Religious and Moral Sentiments freely translated from Indian Writers,” and the other of “ Metrical Translations from the Hymns of the Veda.”
—Mr. Heneage Jesse, the author of “ Memoirs of George III,” and other works, left behind him a work entitled “ Lives of Certain Eminent Etonians. Among these lives are William Pitt, Gray the Poet, Horace Walpole, and others. The work will be published in September.
—Learning that Messrs. Nicolay and John Hay contemplate a “ Life of Abraham Lincoln,” the New York Sun, advises them to don’t. It has no doubt they were very useful to the great man as secretaries, but fears they will not be equally useful as biographers.
—Mr. W. C. Hazlitt will issue this spring a new “ Shakespeare’s Library,” which will include, in five volumes, all the novels, tales, poems and plays on Which the immortal dramas of Shakespeare were founded, with, all the Lives in North’s “Plutarch,” which Shakespear used, and passages from Hollinshed’s “History of England.”
—The great work of the “ Bollandists,” as the compilers of the “Acta Sanctorum” are called, is slowly, but quietly and surely progressing at Bru-sels. At present, says the Times, this huge work consists of about sixty folio volumes, which bring the student down to within three days of the end of the month of October; but a large store of materials is being utilized in order to complete that month forthwith, and further stores have been accumulated towards “The Lives of the Saints” for November and December, about, 4,000 of such biographies being still to be actually written. Out of the six Jesuit Fathers whose names appear on the title-page of the last instalment of the work, issued from the press in 1867, four are already dead, and one more is disabled by illness. The editorial work is now being carried out by the survivor, Father de Buek, assisted by another Father, Dr. van Hoof, with whom others it is
THE SCHOLASTIC.
491
expected will be associated. The Bookseller for the current month contains an account of a visit lately paid by an enthusiastic correspondent to the College at Brussels, which serves as the “offlcina” or workshop of this gigantic undertaking, which was commenced in the reign of our Charles I, and has since been issued at intervals as a serial publication. The Bookseller states that the“ difficulty felt by the Fathers in the purchase of books for their work is greater than ever, since the Belgian Government, yielding to a party cry for retrenchment, withdrew its subsidy of £240, which it had for many years contributed in aid of their labors.” Other nations and private individuals, however, have stepped in, and a set of the series of State Papers, published under the auspices of the Master of the Rolls, figures on their shelves. Still, the writer doubts whether, even if the work is allowed to proceed without interruption, it can possibly be completed by A. D. 2000, and even in that case it is clear that a large supplement will have become necessary, as the process of beatification and canonization is going on from time to time at Rome.
Big Invention.
Lloyd, the famous map man, who made all the maps for General Grant and the Union Army, certificates of which he published, has just invented a way of getting a reliefplate from steel so as to print Lloyd’s Map of the American Continent—showing from ocean to ocean—on one entire sheet of bank-note paper, 40x50 inches large, on a lightning press, and colored, sized and varnished so as to stand washing and mailing, for 30 cents, and plain for tourists 25 cents, or mounted with rollers ready for the wall, and delivered post-paid anywhere in the world, on receipt of 50 cents. This map shows the whole United States and Ter ritories in a group, from surveys to 1875, with a million places on it, such as towns, cities, villages, mountains, lakes, rivers, streams, gold mines, railway stations, etc. This map should be in every house. Send price to the Lloyd Map Company, Philadelphia, and you will get a copy by rteurn mail.
Bersoaal.
—Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of’58, was here on the 4th. '
—Mr. Walsh, of Chicago, spent last Sunday, at the College.
—Jno. Costello was at Notre Dame this last week, on a visit.
—Judge Morris, of Jackson, Miss., was at Notre Dame on Sunday last.
—Rev. Father O’Reilly, of ’59, has declined taking the late Father Hamilton’s parish in Lafayette.
—Very Rev. Father Granger, whose illness we announced some time ago, is now happily recovering.
—Mr. Hammond, the gentlemanly agent of the Catholic Publication Society, passed through Notre Dame last Tuesday.
—Rev. D. J. Spillard, C S. C., of Austin, Texas, made a short visit to Notre Dame this last week. He is looking hale and hearty. Texas air evidently agrees with him. He reports all friends in the Lone Star State as in the best of health.
—Mr. Joseph F. Beegan, who left Notre Dame at the end of the first session of this year on account of ill health, met with a severe accident at Monroeville, Ind. He was playing baseball and while in the act of catching the ball, fell backward. The whole weight of his body falling on his arm, broke it at the wrist. It was immediately set and is doing well.	,
—Seely R. King, agent of the M. C. R. R. at this place ever since the road was completed, has resigned his position and has left the employ of the company. He has accepted a position with A. Coquillard. Mr. King made a most efficient officer, and the travelling public will regret his accommodating and genial manners; he will reflect credit and honor upon his new position, as he would upon any profession in which he might engage.—S. B. Beffister.
Local Items.
—May Devotions every evening.
—The Exhibition takes place next Tuesdaynight.
—We heard some talk of ordinations this month.
—The Band serenaded Father Frere last Sunday.
—The Scholasticate grounds are in very nice trim.
—Our printers are “ coming down ” a little on visitors.
—The “Rightful Heir ” will be righted next Tuesday.
—We have a patent Bogardus Kicker in our office now.
—Our Kroliczek is a real artist—a light under a bushel.
—Walking on Sundays and Wednesdays is again in vogue.
—Last Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday were Rogation Days.
—Termites are white ants. Third termites are black Grants.	.
—We hear some talk of a consolidation of some of our baseball clubs.
—The Sepulchre at the Scholasticate was very nicely arranged last Monday.
—Won’t some one clean that rubbish away north of Mr. Bonney’s gallery?
—22 mice were caught in one of the study halls in two days during the past week.
—The carpenters have been at work for the past few days at the Franciscans’ Home.
—Can any of our mythological friends inform us whether Jupiter Eliacus was not the god of telegraphy?
—John intends having the stable look a little nicer than it does, so he has planted some flowers in front.
—There will be a meeting of the Resident Alumni in the President’s office at 2 o’clock Sunday afternoon.
—The Circus which was in South Bend last Monday afternoon caused a little commotion amongst the Seniors.
—Mr. Bonney will hereafter, besides Wednesdays, come out to Notre Dame every Monday and Friday afternoon.
—When members of the Society of Friends address you in the second person singular, is it not an affectation of singularity ?	"
—Our friend John every now and then delights the occupants of the printing-office with his beautiful executions on the flute.
—We are pleased to see with what taste the grave of the late Rev. Father Lemonnier has been ornamented by some of his friends.
—A committee has visited Chicago to see about the new steam house. Arrangements will be made to have excellent bath rooms.
—What is the matter with our Societies ? Are they not going to have their photographs this year? If they are, now is their time.
—On Sunday mornings our friend John makes his toilet at four o’clock. It is hard enough to get Tom up at halfpast six to make his.
—The First Book-Keeping Class were a little afraid to start steamboating last Monday on account of the uncertainty of the weather.
—The porch on the east side of the Infirmary is progressing slowly, but we hope surely. Now don’t go and say that we are inconsistent.
—South Bend is thawed completely out; we hope ’twill freeze no more, and the stand-pipe still is standing where the stand-pipe stood before.
—“ Harvest Storm to-night ” said last week’s Scholastic. -It was a regular snow storm that night; the “Harvest Storm ” will occur next Tuesday night.
—Don’t put your overcoats in your trunks yet. According to our weather-prophet we are to have snow once more before the setting in of good weather.
—We understand that some students intended asking for rec. on Saturday last. They should understand that it is not customary here to give rec. on the 1st of March.
—The consolidation of Democrats and Republicans who
492
THE SCHOLASTIC.
form the present opposition party, may be conveniently known as the Dem-y-Reps, “ y ” being Spanish for “ and.”
—Three shinplasters, either all tens, or all twenty-fives, or any combination of tens and twenty-fives, will buy three-cent postage stamps without leaving any odd cents over—try it!
—Miss Mattie received a Valentine last February, commencing;
“ Sweet Mat, the sweetest Mat e’er known! ” “ Adore Mat! ” whispers everyone.
—Mr. Bonney has taken a large photograph of Very Rev. Father General which we believe is the best ever taken of him. Persons desiring the photograph can procure it of Mr. Bonney, price 50 cts.
—One of our oldest and most respected Literary Societies is so afraid of having its motto interfered with by the sacrilegious hands of its own members, that it exclaims, on all its programmes, and on every other occasion of coming before the public: “ Cecilians, let our motto be!"
—“Mr. Goatsucker, are you of opinion that onions planted on the twenty-fifth of Aprile would do as well as the same frewt when planted on the nineteenth of May? ” “ Quite so, my dear madam, in'fact ceteris paribus, I should think they would even do better.” “ Set with asparagus! Pm not talking about asparagus—Pm talking of onions.”
—We are informed that Mr. F. G. Brown, the gentlemanly Manager of the Western Union Telegraph office in South Bend, has at length succeeded in his efforts to have the Western Union Company run a wire from his office to Notre Dame, a distance of three miles. The connection is to be made immediately. Mr. Brown has the thanks of his many friends at Notre Dame for his efforts in their behalf.
—“ She graduates with the close of the present term,” read Mr. Perkins from the columns of a country paper, expatiating on the educational expectations of a village favorite about to distinguish herself at a neighboring boarding-school. “Dear me!” said Mrs. Smithers, who was knitting and listening,—graduates with the clothes of the present term! How equinomical these hard times are making folks. Why I alius had to get my gals new clothes to graduate in, and they ain’t married yet. Oh dear!”
—We don’t believe in underhand work at all. In fact we do all in our power, when an occasion presents itself, to discourage it. If a student is not deserving of an honor it does not show a very good trait in his character to do all in his power by “ ways that are dark and tricks that are vain” to gain that honor. If you do not deserve it yourself, do not endeavor to cheat those who do. We know very well it will be useless for you to try to do so, as the Professors know who is worthy of honor and who is not, but we speak of it to show the ungentlemanliness of the act. If you deserve honor, rest assured you will receive it; but if you do not, all your underhand work, policy, or whatever you wish to call it, will be in vain.
—So many of our friends dead, dying, or living in a valetudinarian state in the prime of life! It ought to admonish us not to neglect the physical for the mental. It seems to be a peculiarity of the American atmosphere ever urging us beyond the bounds of moderation—whether he eats or drinks, or whatsoever else he does, the American goes to the utmost limits of his capacity—he studies too much when he studies, and works too much when he works. But then lie loafs too much when he loafs. He must either be a teetotaller or a drunkard. The maxim in medio stat-oirtus, is practically unknown to him, and we speak not only of the American by birth, but of every dweller on American soil. It is in the atmosphere—this spirit of immoderation—and no sooner does the emigrant land here than he becomes infected with it. There is so much work to do, and so much to be earned by working. The negroes are the only race among us who make any approach to the saooirpi-ore. Of our dearest and best friends, all we can say, as we write epitaph after epitaph is, in travesty of the old Latin verse: Sanafuit sua mens, at non in corpore sano.
—A Student writes us: “ Again we hear complaints of the reading in the Refectory, especially in the Seniors’— where, if education has anything to do with reading, there ought to be the best readers. ' In the beginning of the year Father Colovin told the readers several times how they should read, and showed them reasons for so doing. But, as is generally the case in nearly everything, his advice was put into practice for a while, and then—forgotten. Some read too fast, others too low and indistinct. The students, according to the rules of the University, are expected to pay attention; but how are they going to do this when the readers cannot be understood, or even heard, any distance from the stand ? It is true all are not so. There are some of that class or society—or whatever it is— who are good readers; in fact the majority are. But when the minority read they spoil the good effect that the others made. A very interesting book is being now read —Irving’s Life of Washington—but, as the reading is good one day and poor another, no one cares about paying attention. This is too bad! Whose fault is it? Ask anyone who has heard the reading for a month, and they will tell you that although some of the blame lies with the students, the most of it is with the readers. If they all read distinctly and loudly, the students would have, in spite of themselves, to pay more or less attention. We are not referring to anyone in particular, but those whom the ‘ cap fits ’ may wear it.”
—The following is the Programme of the Philopatriari Exhibition to be given May 11th:
PART FIRST.
Grand Introductory March...................N.	D. U. C. B.
Overture—Tannhauser—Wagner.....................Orchestra
Song.......................................T.	M. O’Leary
Address of the Evening.....................H. W. Quan
Declamation....................................J. Nelson
Guitar Solo....................................L. Pilliod
Recitations....................E.	Davis and J. Del Vecchio
Prologue...................................C. J. Whipple
Music—Song—Silver Threads..................N. D. U. C. B.
. THE RUNAWAYS.
A Farce in One Act.
Abel Grump.....................................L. Pilliod
Johnny Grump...............................E. Washburn
Charlie Black..................................F. Ewing
Solomon Doestieks..............................J. S. Hayes
Overture—Fra Biavolo—Auber.....................Orchestra
PART SECOND.
THE RIGHTFUL HEER, or THE BLIND BOY.
A Melodrama in Three Acts—Slightly Remodelled for the Occasion.	’
Stanislaus.......................................G. Budd
Edmont.....................................J. Del Vecchio
Prince Rodolph................................H.	W. Quan
Oberto.........................................L. Pilliod
Elvino.....................................C. J. Whipple
Starow.....................................W. G. Morris
Kalig..........................................J. French
Molino.........................................W. Roelle
Bonifacio.....................................F.	Hoffman
Lino.............................................C. Post
Gilak..........................................A. Burger
Roberto....................................E. Washburn
Giacomo........................................G. Lonstorf
Edgar..........................................J. Nelson
Adil........................................  0.	Larkin
Adolpho.......................................R.	Pilliod
Ambrosio.........................................F. Rosa
Zares..................................................J.	Colton
Narses...........................................E. Sugg
Hydaspo...................................... F.	Kleiner
Dario.......................................  J.	A Rice
Simon..........................................C. Walsh
Benjamin........................................E. Davis
Utobal.........................................N. Dryfoos
Bataglia.......................................F. Ewing
Josepho....................................N. Van Namee
Reginald.......................................J. Reinke
Longobardo ....................................J. S. Hayes
Frederico................................J.	W. Crummey
Godfrey....................................H. McGuire
Music, Aria.................................N. D. U. C. B
THE SCHOLASTIC.
PART THIRD. THE HARVEST STORM. A Domestic Drama in One Act—by no means Remodelled, for the Occasion. Dramatis Personce: John Garner...............  r...................J.	A. Rice
Andrew Radford.................................C. R. Post
Michael.................................................J.	Colton
Samuel Lexicon................................H. W. Quan
Mr. Lynx................................................J.	Nelson
Dick Darrell..................................J. Crummey
Charlie Cooper................................  C.	Larkin
Nat. Lovel......................................G.	Lonstorf
Jack Ray........................................N.	Dryfoos
Barker, Nibbier and Catchem....FJKleiner, E. Sugg, R. Pilliod
Pompey............................'...............E.	Davis
Caesar.......................................N.	Van Namee
Epilogue.........................H. W. Quan and C. R. Post
Closing Remarks Grand March..................................N.	D. U. C. B.
After Act Second of “ The Rightful Heir ” Music by N. D. U. C. B.
Bro. Leopold, Prof. Paul and M. Roulhac have kindly consented to furnish the music for the play of “The Rightful Heir.”
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, W. Ball, L. Berkey, T. Cochrane, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, J. Campbell, J. Cmlen, T. Crelly, M. Clarke, W. Canavan, F. Devoto, R. Doherty, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Hogan, G. Hoyt, H. Hunt, T. Hansard, H. Hoffman, W. Hughes, A. Hertzog, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, J. F. Larkin, P. Lawrence, J. Logsdon, G. McNulty, E. McPharlin, W. Mc-Gavin, E. McLaughlin, V. McKinnon, J. Marks, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monahan, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan, E. Marshall, J. Ney, F. O’Brien, A. O’Brien, T. O’Leary, C. Otto, J. Obert, C. Proctor, G. Roulhac, J. Retz, C. Robertson, W. Ryan, E. Ratigan, J. Rudge, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, P. Shaul, J. "Soule, J. Thornton, F. Wilhelm, C. Walters, R. White, C. Welty, J. Whalen.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, J. Buekels, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, J. Crummey, J. Dore, N. Dryfoos, R. Downey, F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, G. J. Frauenkriecht, F. Frazee, J. T. Foley, G.-J. Gross, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, E. D. Gleason, J. S. Hayes, W. Hansard, C: Hake, H. Harvey, C. H. Hitchcock, M. Kramer, J. P. Kurtz, M. Katzauer, H. Korty, F. Kleiner, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, G. J. Lonstorf,' J. Lynch, P. McBride, J. McIntyre, T. McNamara, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, J. Minton, W. G. Morris, M. J. Murphy, W. P. Nelson, G.Nester, J.Nelson, H. Newman, L. Pilliod, J. L. Perea, H. W. Quan, E.F. Riopelle, L. Smith, J. A. Smith, W. Smith, A. Schmidt, T. J. Solon, N. Vanamee, H. Weber, C. J‘. Whipple, R. J. Walker, J. E. Wood, F. J. Weisenburger, E. Washburn, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, F. Rollin, O. Meyer, G. R. Serrill, E. Hall, A. Pilliod, 0. Ludwig.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Samuel Goldsberry, Michael McAuliffe, Francis Carlin, Edward Raymond, Colly Campau, Willie Campbell, Tommie Hooley, Francis McGrath, Otto Lindberg, John O’Meara, John Duffield, Harry Ordway, Louis Goldsmith, Charlie Bushey, Willie Coolbaugh, Hugh Colton, Francis Campau.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MAY 6.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Senior Class—F. Bearss, G. Roulhac, G. Hoyt, V. McKinnon, S. Kennedy, J. Campbell, R. White, P. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, W. Fullerton, M. Clarke, A. Wisner, W. Wells, E. Marshall, J. Reidy, A. Hertzog, J. Kopf.
Junior Class—J. Nelson, J. Del Vecchio, R. Walker, F. Rosa, J. Hayes, G. Sugg, A. Beteher, J. Foley, J. Smith, F. Kleiner, H. Weber, R. McGrath, H. Kinson, J. Leitelt, A. Leitelt, F. Rollin, E. Gramling, H. Harvey, J. Colton, W. Kreigh, J. Haffey, W. Davis, T. Quinn, A. Pilliod.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Colly Clarke, Ralph Golsen, Samuel Goldsberry, Francis Carlin, Clement S. Moody, John Duffield, Francis McGrath, Golly Campau, Michael McAuliffe.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
—On Monday, the 26th ult., at the Distribution of Points -in the Junior Department, several recitations were given, and some pretty singing was done.
—The French Classes have received beautiful replies to their correspondence addressed to Mother Superior. Their pleasure was indeed great upon their reception.
—On Sunday in the Seniors’ Study Hall recitations were given by N. McGrath, M. Ewing, B. Wilson and L. Hutchinson. Two Compositions were also read; one from the First Senior Class, entitled “ Who Wrote it?” and read by Miss Foote, and the other from the Third Senior Class, on “A Visit to the World in 1976,” read by Miss Faxon. Judge Morris kindly praised the young ladies.
—Judge Morris, of Jackson, Miss., was present at the.. Distribution of Points on Sunday evening, and made remarks at the close which will be long remembered by the youthful audience; and the beautiful eulogium bestowed upon the institution and its revered founder will be treasured up in many a grateful heart. The warmest sympathies and condolence in their late sad affliction are tendered to this distinguished gentleman and his beloved little group of bereaved ones from every heart at St. Mary’s.
—A spirited competition in the Second Senior Modem History Class took place on Saturday last, 23d ult., preparatory to the approaching examination. The Prefect of Studies kindly accepted an invitation to be present. Great diligence and energy were exhibited in the preparation. The Misses M. Faxon, L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, M. Dilger, M. Daily and J. Bennett, did themselves great credit by their prompt, intelligent and graceful recitations. Very Rev. Father General presided at the ceremonies of the opening of the Month of May, Benediction of the Blessed Sarcrament being preceded by one of his most excellent instructions. The public act of consecration was read in a clear, distinct manner by Miss Walker.
—On Tuesday the final lecture of the Art course was delivered in the Study Hall. The subject was Nicola Bisano, that great sculptor worthy to be called the regenerator of art in Italy; and who deserved this title, not only before Cimabue, who was his contemporary, but even before Giotto, who succeeded him. His only teachers were the early Christian, or Romanesque, sculptures and an ancient sarcophagus, in his native city; but so far from a servile imitation of either, Nicola made even the pagan models of Greece and Rome subservient to Christian inspirations. Their mere natural perfection was made to aid in the perfecting of his own supernatural conceptions; precisely as St. Thomas of Aquin used Aristotle’s philosophy in moulding Christian philosophy; exactly as all the great Christian scholars have used the brick and the mortar of natural science and learning for supernatural ends.. The lecture was illustrated by the exquisite model in alabaster of the Cathedral Baptistry’ leaning Campanile and wonderful Campo Santo, of Pisa, which Very Rev. Father General kindly lent for the occasion.
ART NOTES.	J
—What the woods and glens are still too prudent to dispense for the May altars, the green-house supplies, and they are choice as to color, arrangement and perfume.
—A charming design in water-colors, seven inches by ten, of the Good Shepherd, has been finished within a few days. Nothing could be more tender in tint than the distant mountains, and the leafless groves on the high, steep bank, overlooking a stream too much like our own St. Joseph to be taken for any other. Over these prairie stretches of pasture-land, just beginning to look green under the smiles of early spring, comes the Good Shepherd, with the wandering, wounded sheep on His shoulder, and held to the Divine cheek by one pierced hand, while the other holds the pastoral staff. The whole figure has the springing step of the shepherd on the hills; and there is a breeziness in the picture which belongs to early spring; while the divine pathos of this little composition goes to the very heart. Time and study alone are needed to give such inspirations an imperishable value.
—The processions on the Feast of St. Mark and now on
494
THE SCHOLASTIC.
the Rogation days, afford not only an inspiration to prayer, but to artistic composition. It is precisely under the influence of such unusual combinations of morning light, waving lines of moving figures, the flicker of tapers, the dew on the springing grass, the repose of the sleepers in their cross-crowned graves, the budding of the closely pruned vines, the chanted invocation and response, the inspiring Paschal anthem sung under the blue heavens at the hour of Matins or Prime, that the painters of other ages caught inspirations and worked them out. God, the Church, her festivals, nature herself, are the same as ages ago; and the hearts and imaginations of the faithful children of the Church, are they not the same, and will they not kindle to enthusiasm, and give forth with the brush, the inspirations caught at such auspicious moments?
ADDITIONAL ARRIVALS.
Miss J. Andrews,........Chicago, Ill.
Miss C. Trull,..........Chicago, Ill.
Miss M. Hooper,.........Chicago, Ill.
Miss R. Corddniea,......Russia, Ohio.
Miss L. Dragoo,.........Buchanan, Mich.
Miss J. A. Morris,......Jackson, Miss.
Miss A. Morris,.........Jackson, Miss.
TABLET OF HONOR.
For the Week Ending April 26.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled:
Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, T, Dragoo, G. Walton, J. Fanning, N. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair, M. Daily, A. Walsh, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, M. Brady, S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler, K. Morris, P. Gaynor, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan, A. Byrne, M. Roberts, J. Pierce, . B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Manu, M Poquette, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, T. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, C. Morgan, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, S. and I. Edes^ M. McKay, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham, D. Cav-enor, J. Riopelle, S. Reising, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, L. Johnson, D. Allen, E. Pierce, N. King, C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, G. Hills, L. Schwass, M. Railton, S. Swalley, L. Ryan, R. Cordonica.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, M. O’Connor, M. Ewing, E. Lange, A. Cullen, M. and B. Siler, B. Golsen,iM. Reynolds, S. Cash, N. McGrath, M Hooper, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L. Kirchner, L. Hutchinson, M. Hoffman, E. Lappin, M. Derby, K. Hudson, M. Bell.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. Mann, A. Peak, M. and C. Hughes, E. Simpson, A. McGrath, C. Trull, R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN LESSONS.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses M. Daily, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, T, Wyman, J. McGuirej A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, B. Wade, M. Dunbar. M. Brady.
R3rd Sr. Class—Misses S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler, P. Gaynor, L. Henrotin, A. Byrnes, J. Pierce, B. and K. Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Shiel, K. Casey, T. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, M. Cravens, I. Fisk.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. Thompson, C. Morgan, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, B. Siler, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham,
D. Cavenor, M. Siler, M. Ewing, E. Lange, M. Schulthies, A. Cullen, B. Golsen, M. Reynolds.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, S. Reising, M. Anthony, L. Kirchner, E. Botsford, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, M. Hooper, H. Peak, E. Pierce, N. King,*J. Brown, S. Cash, N. McGrath.	*
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, L. Brownbridge, L. Schwass, M. Railton, S. Swalley.
Jr. Prep—A. Goewey, C. Yates, M. Hoffman, E. Lappin. A. Ewing, N. Mann, M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson, H. Kraus, M. Redfield, and M. Derby.
1st Jr.—I. Mann, K. Hudson, C. Hughes, E. Simpson, A. McGrath, C. Trull, A. Peak, M. Bell, and M. Hughes.
2nd Jr.—C. Goldsberry and Y. Mier.
plain sewing.
Misses M. Walker, J. Kearney, L. Ritchie, A. Lloyd, E. Haggerty, J. Locke, G. Walton, A. T. Clarke, J. Fanning, K. Joyce, J. Nunning, B. Wade, M. Dunbar, S. Harris, K. Hutchinson, R. Canoil, A. Beyrne, M. Roberts, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson, E. Mann.
FANCY WORK.
Misses S. Harris, L. Bosch, S. Reising, K. Greenleaf, A. Dilger, N. King, H. Parks, E. Botsford, E. Lange, K. Hudson.
—“ Why,” said a Troy gentleman to a young lady who refused to play on the piano, “you can play the ‘Blue Danube Waltz, can’t you ? ” “No,” said she, “but I can play penny ante just like a little man.”	■
NATIONAL: HOTEL
Soixtli Bend, Indiana
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
THOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
Michigan Central Railroad.
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1S74.
Going Hast.
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit
Mail -	-	-	5 00 a m	9 02am	5 45 pm
Day Express -	- 8 30am	11 47 a m	6 30 pm
Accommodation -	335pm	7 35pm	8 45 am
Atlantic Express - 515pm	8 55 p m	3 50 am
Night Express - - 9 pm	12 45 pm	8 00 am
Going	West.	
Trains.	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	-	7 00 a m	4 05 pm	8 05pm
Day Express -	- 10 20 a m	5 20 pm	9 00 pm
Accommodation -	150 p m	6 30am	1035 am
Evenin" Express - 5 40pm	230am	630am
Pacific Express - - 10 00 p m	500am	830 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 pm, 630 pm, *9 am, *7 pm.
Arrive at Niles—8 45 a m, 3 55pm, 710 pm *9 40 am, *740 pm.
Leave Niles—6 30 a m, 9 20 a m, 5 10 p m, * 8 a m, + 5 p m.
Arrive at South Bend—715 am, 10 am, 555pm, + 840 am, +540pm
NOTRE DAME STATION.
. Going East, via INiles.
Depart—807 am, 6.38 pm,+9 07 am,+7 07pm.
Arrive—7 07 a m, 9 42 a m, 5 46 p m, + 8 32 a m, + 5 32 p m
Going AVest, via Niles.
Depart—310 p m. Arrive—9 48 a m.
S3?” Trains marked thus ♦ + run Sunday only.
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH,	W. B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
495
THE
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
Particularly Devoted to the Holy Mother of God.
Published Weekly at
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
EXCODRAGED AND APPROVED BY
' HIS HOLINESS POPE PUTS IX,
And Many Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the interests ot the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians, but solely to such as love the Mother of Jesus and wish to see her honored throughout,the land; commending itself not only to the various pious Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady—such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, hildren of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— but tothe whole community.
. It is hardly necessary to say that the “ Ave Maria" is not a polis ical paper; it will ignore, absolutely, political strifes. Yet it will contain regularly a summary of recent events,—we mean such at relate to religious interests: edifying and accredited Legends, Essays - criticisms upon late works, will find an appropriate place in its columns. Everything conducive to the interests of the hurch will be carefully sought after and recorded, for no child of the Church should be ignorant of the trials and triumphs of his mother.
In order to secure the permanency of our paper, and to establish it on a successful material foundation, we propose creating a fund that will place it, from its inception, bej-ond the contingencies to which similar enterprises are so often liable. The method is as follows: A payment of Twenty Dollars constitutes a Life Subscription, and such subscriber will receive the journal regularly without being liable to any further payment for subscription.
The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass is celebrated every Saturday, at Notre Dame, for Life Subscribers, and a certain number of om-munions offered for them. This Mass will be offered in requiem for them whenever it may please our Heavenly Father to call them from our midst.
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of Mass once a month.
Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four ins tallments within the space of one year.
Terms :
One Year,	.......	$3
Two Years, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	5
Five Years,	.......	10
Life Subscription, -	- x -	-	-	-	- '20
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc, should be addressed to
Editob or “AVE MARIA,’
Notre Dame, Indiana.
FOUNDED IN 1842.
CHARTERED IN 1844.
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
rpHIS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted I up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred students.
Situated near the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
Terms s
Matriculation Fee, -	-	-	-	-	-	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek included), Washing and Mending of Linens, per session of five-months, -------- 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each -	- 10 00
Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	-	12 50
Use of Piano, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-10 00
Use of Violin, -	.	- - -	-	-	-	2 50
„	,,	_____ (General Class Principles, -	- •	- 10 00
Vocal Lessons -j Vocal Cnlture>	.	.	.	.	15 00
Elocution—Special Course,.................................500
Use of Library, (per session) -	-	-	-	-	1 00
Drawing, -------	-	15 00
Telegraphy	-	-	-	-	-	•	-10 00
Tse of Philosophical andhemical Apparatus -	-	5 00
V	j Classical Course,	-	-	-	-	16 00
raduation Fee, -I Scientific Course, -	-	-	- 10 00
G	(Commercial Course, -	-	-	5 00
Doctors' Fees and Medicines at Physician’s Charges.
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the University _ are charged extra, -	-	-	-	-	-	35 00
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.	.	.
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Cl^ss books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first Session begins on the 1st Tuesday of September; the second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, addres
Rev. P. J. COLOVIN, C. S. C.
THE BLESSED VIRGN
AND THE
OF
Translated from the Italian of Padre Pio Giuseppe Capri, 0. P., by Rev. D. Moyes.
PRICE 30 CENTS,!
For Sale by THOMAS BUTLER, Catholic Bookseller, Fitchburg, Mass.
Quarterly Review,
PUBLISHED BY
Fr. PUSTET FOR THE PROPRIETOR.
L. B- 5613. New York; and 204 Vine St., Cincinnati, Ohio-
This work is devoted to Religion, Philosophy, Politics, and General Literature. Each number contains 141 pages, and four numbers make a volume of 576 pages, which is famished to subscribers at five dollars per annum in advance.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line-
SWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Uj/ Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City and Denver Fast Express, via, Jacksonville, HL, and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis, Springfield, Texas and New Orleans Lightning Express, via Main Line,
♦ Except Sunday. $ Except Saturday.
LBAVB. ARRIVE.
•9:40 a.m. *8:10 pan.
• 12:00 noon *2 50 p m
♦12:00 noon *2:50 p.m
•4:30 p.m. *9:20 ajn.
J9:45 p.m. 17:30 a.m.
| Daily. § Except Monday
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Fullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st-train leaves Chicago 9.00 a.m. I Arrives at New York 7.35 a.m.*
2d train “	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.50 a.m.*-
3rd train “	“	10.00. p. m. |	“	.	“	11.15 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jn., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag't, Phielphi*.
F. R. MY EKS, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t. Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day.	'
496
THE SCHOLASTIC
almer & Vanwinkle,
Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES, Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St.,
South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A. M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	- o24-tf
,R. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST.
109 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
j^DWARD BUYSEE,
Dealer in WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc., 76 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. JS-tf
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ BURNISHING GOODS, STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.
o24-tf
M. BURKE, Proprietor.
14=0 and 14=3 Madison Street.
(Between Clark and LaSalle,}
CAGO, -	-	- IXaQ.
f63m.
E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St.,
South Bend, Ind.
Special attention-given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old English, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
decl-^tf.
No. 54 MICHIGAN St.,
SOUTH BEND, IND..
and to the College and St. Mary’s.
%o2L3m
any other house in the business.
99 HAIN STREET,
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
(.Opposite the Dwight House).
-----o----
o24-tf.
- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Ko24-tf
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT.
JRELAND & SON,
PROPRIETORS OF
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
hack .line
To and from, all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City,
“THE NINE CENT STORE!” ---------------0-- DROP IN AT
“THE SIWE CEAT STORE!”
AND
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Stbeet, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.
THE OLD «RELIABLE ”
DWIGHT HOUSE
SOUTH BENO, INDIANA.
"A CESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the JLVJl above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay, JERRY“KN1GHT,) CAPTAIN MILLS, [Proprietors.
o24-tf
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
94 Michigan St., South Bend, Ind
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock o
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING *
—AND—
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything yon want in our Line will always he found on our shelves.
Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce hut Clothing is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths, Cassi-meres and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!’
JggT Fbesh Candies Made Daily.