The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 3, 1874.	Number 19.
Harsh Words, or the Fatal Combat.
How strange and mysterious are the ways of man! How mystically interwoven are the paths over which he must wander during his pilgrimage on earth! He knows not the day nor the hour when the grim spirit, clothed in the garb of the tomb, will appear and bid him follow to the cold, still vault, there to return into the dust from which he sprung! The young and beautiful are hourly called away; the hoary miser leaves his cherished gold, and passes o’er the surging waters of the Lethe to receive eternal happiness or eternal misery. Each day the baneful passions of men consign victims to the tomb, there to slumber on till that last dreadful awakening which will disclose to mankind a scene of never-ending joy or never ending sorrow. The slightest word often awakens in the heart of man the demon Anger, in whose gory train, stalk revenge, sorrow and desolation. Many a desolate home and blighted heart, many a star shining in the meridian of splendor has set beneath the cypress and willow on account of an unkind word uttered in a moment of passion.
Bright and beautiful appeared the ivy-girt cottage of Robert Griffith, as it rose encircled by groves of towering pines and graceful cedars, beneath which flowers of an aromatic species diffused their fragrance on the breezes. Within that picturesque abode all was joy and serenity. There gentle peace smiled, and, like the wand of the magician, all beneath its influence appeared bright and beautiful. The heart of the owner throbbed with joy as he gazed around his cherished home and pictured the happiness in store for him when Maude Cavendish, the fairest maiden in the land, would become his bride, and reign in the cottage, as she already did in the heart of “Roving Rob,” the gay, the active, and fearless. Thus thinking of the two long weeks that must elapse ere Maude would gladden his cottage by her presence, Robert sauntered along the stream which wound its sinuous way in unbroken silence through the meadows then clothed in the brightest garb of smiling Spring.
“Halloo, Rob!” said a cheery voice from the midst of a beautiful chestnut grove, “ where away in such haste ? Dally for a few moments beneath this inviting shade, and listen to the very truthful editorial of the Gazette on the momentous transactions in political circles! ”
Sam Brayton slowly arose from his recumbent position as his friend approached, and, pointing out the article, said, “ Rob, I’ll be hanged if those copper-headed friends of yours won’t ruin the country ere another election-time has come! Would to heaven the serpents were crushed; then the nation, redeemed by the blood of heroes, would not be trembling and on the brink of irreparable destruction! ”
“How dare you,Brayton,” exclaimed Robert, with flashing eyes,” malign a spotless party, when you know that it is
the cupidity of your favorites which threatens to destroy the land of Washington, the noblest beneath the broad expanse of heaven! ”
One hour later they stood face to face on the bank of the tiny stream, their countenances marked with scowls of defiance and deadly vengeanee. “Fire, and advance!” rang forth from their respective friends, who had assembled to behold two of the bravest young men inP------- heedlessly risking their lives and eternal salvation on account of a few words rashly spoken. At the word “ Fire! ” two reports were simultaneously heard, followed at intervals by groans from the combatants, who continued to pour in deadly volleys upon each other. And yet one kind word might have spared the lives of both; but no one had acted the angel’s part, and there they lay, writhing in the agonies which precede dissolution!
“ Maude, beloved of my heart! we will meet no more on earth, but perhaps we may in heaven! I go unshriven, to the awful throne of a just and avenging God; but my destroyer goes with me! Together we will pass over the sea of death, to a vale of eternal happiness or misery beyond.”
These were the last words Robert Griffith ever uttered, and ere the spectators had awakened from the trance-like stillness into which they had fallen, the souls of the two unhappy youths had quitted their tenements of clay and soared to the presence of their offended God.
A few hours after the ivied cottage received its master, no longer in the pride and strength of manhood, but stiff and cold in death. Maude, the chaste and beautiful, stood by the bier, gazing on the features of him to whom she had in the rosy, peaceful hours of childhood given her pare, unchanging affection. She bathed the face of the dead with tears, and parted the clotted hair on his blood-stained forehead. She murmured words of fond endearment into those deaf and stony ears, which even thunder could never startle again, until the world-waking sound of the archangel’s trumpet shall split the crystal vaults of heaven and shake the highest stars from their orbits. A few days afterwards the still vault received his mortal remains, and his disconsolate betrothed laid on his grave a wreath of rmfading flowers, burying at the same time her constant heart, thenceforth insensible to the things of earth. Thus did a few hasty words consign to the cold cold, day those who should have been an honor to their country, and a source of comfort and happiness to those who lived but in their smiles. 	Celt.
What Breaks Down Young Men.
It is a commonly received notion that hard study is the unhealthy element of college life. But from the tables of mortality of Harvard University, collected by Professor Pierce from the last triennial catalogue, it is dearly dem, onstrated that the excess of deaths for the first ten years
146	THE SCHOLASTIC.
after graduation is found in that portion of the class of inferior scholarship. Every one who has seen the curriculum knows that where zEschylus and political economy injure one, late hours and rum-punches use up a dozen, and the two little fingers are heavier than the loins of Euclid. Dissipation is a sure destroyer, and every young man who follows it is, as the early flower, exposed to an untimely frost. Those who have been inveigled into the path of vice are named legion. A few hours’ sleep each night, high living, and plenty of “smashes ” make war upon every function of the body. The brains, the heart, the nerves, the lungs, the liver, the spine, the limbs, the bones, the flesh, and every part and faculty are overtasked and weakened by the terrific energy of passion loosened from restraint, untill, like a dilapidated mansion, the “ earthly house of this tabernacle ” falls into ruinous decay. Fast young men, right about.—Exchange.
Our Public School System.
The majority of those who are opposed to secular education, both Catholic and Protestant, are moved by a profound conviction of its inadequacy to the real needs of the children and the community. It develops calculation, cunning and intellectual sharpness, at the expense of conscience and moral sensibilities. It creates a type of character that is clever, capable and even brilliant, but utterly selfish and hard. It gives ability, but awakens no corresponding disposition to use the ability for just and noble ends; and experience demonstrates that giving culture to a thoroughly bad man is like putting a sword or firebrand in the hands of a maniac. Herbert Spencer has rendered a real public service in exposing the shallow sophistry which supposes there is any moral in mathematics, or that any amount of merely intellectual discipline will make a kind husband, a devoted father, or a good citizen. We see that notwithstanding the increase of educational facilities and the admitted excellence of our schools and colleges, there has been a saddening growth of vice and crime, and still more depressing deterioration of character among the classes where we naturally look for the best results of our educational system. It is only natural that, with these alarming evidences of demoralization before their eyes, religious people look with suspicion and dread upon any and every proposal to diminish the moral instruction of our educational institutions, and eliminate all religious influences from the public schools. They feel that health does not come from any such restricted diet. The primary object of the public schools is not to teach this or that particular branch of knowledge, but to make good citizens and worthy men and women. There is no necesary connection between grammar and goodness. The multiplication table does not nurture the moralities.
The fact that our public schools did not turn out the class of men and women we want, and that, in spite of costly and splendid educational institutions, there is an acknowledged increase of crime and demoralization of character, shows that there is some radical defect in our school system.
The great defect of our public schools is that they train the head to the neglect, if not at the expense of, the heart-The great common virtues, without which culture is a curse-are left to take care of themselves. The graces, the hu, manities, the sweet and beautiful charities, the deepest and
noblest sentiments of human nature, get no recognition in our present system, and if they are fed at all, it is from the crumbs that fall from the table of mathematics, and logic, and the classics. The idea of duty, which is the foundation of character.; the sentiment of reverence, which makes subordination and greatness possible; the sympathies, which are sources of respect for the rights and feelings of others; the beautiful amenities which bind human beings together and make life lovely—all that belongs to the distinctively moral side of human nature, and falls into the category of the heart—are pushed aside and left to such precarious invigoration as they may chance to get elsewhere.—Eeio York Evening Graphic.
Catholic Billers.
As a contrast to the conduct of the “Pilgrim Fathers,” we take a few desultory notes on the proceedings of Catholic conquerors and colonists in regard to native populations.
The history of Maryland, one of the United States, is remarkable. Although a British Colony, it was founded by Catholics, and perhaps owing to this fact presented a great contrast to the neighboring State of Virginia. “Within six months,” says Mr. Bancroft, “ the colony of Maryland had advanced more than Virginia had done in as many years.” In this latter colony the injustice and brutality with which the natives were treated prduced the same result as in New England, and to this “conduct does America owe the undying hatred of the aboriginal tenants of her land.” On the other hand the Indian tribes of Maryland received from the Catholic colonists such proofs of justice and charity, that, as Mr. Buckingham relates, “their generosity won the hearts of their Indian friends.” Maryland was almost the only State whose early settlement was not stained with the blood of thenatives. “ In various quarters concessions were made of entire towns of tribes. There is another particular in which there is an instructive contrast between the States of Maryland and Virginia. In Virginia the ferocious intolerance of New England was imitated by the Anglican clergy as long as it was in their power to do so. Lord Baltimore was himself expelled from Virginia on account of his religion, whilst the first act of the Governor of Maryland wTas to prohibit by law every act of persecution in respect of religion.
“Under the mild institutions of Baltimore,” says Mr. Bancroft, “the dreary wilderness soon bloomed with the swarming life and activity of prosperous settlements. The Catholics who were oppressed by the laws of England were sure to find a peaceful asylum in the great harbors' of the Chesapeake, and there, too, Protestants were sheltered against intolerance.” The histoiy of Maryland is the history of benevolence, and gratitude, and toleration.
The character of the Catholic colony soon became generally known, and the victims of persecution hurried to seek refuge under its merciful laws. Huguenots from France, and from other countries, the children of misfortune, sought protection under the tolerant sceptre of the Catholics, and were at once made citizens of Maryland with ' equal franchises.
After the death of Lord Baltimore the . influence of the Archbishop of Canterbury was solicited to secure an establishment of the Anglican Church, to be maintained at the common expense of the province. The English ministry
"•WB?!
THE SCHOLASTIC.
147
soon issued an order that the offices of government in Maryland should be entrusted exclusively to Protestants. “ Roman Catholics,” says Bancroft, “ were disfranchised in the province which they had planted.”
“ And now,” says the same candid writer, “ in the land which Catholics had opened to Protestants, the Catholic inhabitant was the sole victim to Anglican intolerance.”
“The Catholics of Maryland,” says another Protestant writer, “ who acted with so much liberality to their Protestant brethren,” receive I in return “ the basest ingratitude; ” and when, inspite of the notorious character of its clergy, the Church of England was declared by law to be a part of the constitution of the State in Maryland, “ Catholics were prohibited, under the severest penalties, from all acts of public worship, and even from exercising the profession of teachers in education.”
As long as they were supported by the home authorities, the Anglican clergy did what they could to make the existence of Catholics intolerable in America. In 1717 an Act was passed imposing a duty of twenty shillings on every Irish servant imported, being a Papist!
As for the native population, the flourishing condition of our missions in the Northwest demonstrates incontestably that but for the more than heathen wickedness of the agents of Protestantism, all the tribes of North America might easily have been converted to the faith.”. “The Saxon,” observes Sir Charles Dilke, “is the only extirpating race on earth.” Before English colonists had overwhelmed the Red Indians, Maories, and Australians in a common destruction, “no numerous race had ever been blotted out by the invader. . . . The Spaniards not only never annihilated a people, but have themselves been almost completely expelled by the Indians of Mexico and South America.” Mr. Bancroft speaks of the “passionate attachment ” with which the French inspired the Indians> who even now speak of them with respect and affection. But the French were supplanted by men in -whom faith and charity were wanting, and in whose presence whole nations have melted away. The endeavors of Washington to protect the Indians failed, and the Sioux chiefs who lately appeared at Washington could tell General Grant with truth that his Government only made treaties with the Indians to deceive, and only gave promises to betray them. Yet Bishop Brute, who died in 1839, described the Indians of his diocese as men displaying such qualities of meekness, fervor and devotion as are not found as often as they should be amongst the best-instructed Christians of more favored countries. Father de Smet and his companions have at this day thousands of such disciples, but the extirpating Saxon wants their lands, and will get them. —London Illustrated Cath. Magazine.
A Fallacy.
Dr. Hall says that it is quite a mistaken notion which leads many persons to sleep in cold rooms; the generality of people cannot safely sleep in a room where the atmosphere is under fifty degrees Fahrenheit. Many persons wake up in the morning with inflammation of the lungs who went to bed well, and are surprised that this should be the case. The cause may often be found in sleeping in a room the window of which has been foolishly hoisted for ventilation. The water-cure journals of the country have done an incalculable injury by the blind and indiscriminate advice of hoisting the window at night. The rule should be
everywhere during the part of the year when fires are kept burning to avoid hoisting outside windows. It is safer and better to leave the chamber door open, as also the fireplace; then there is a draft up the chimney, while the room is not so likely to become cold. If there is some fire in the room all night the window may be opened an inch. It is safer to sleep in a bad air all night with a temperature over fifty, than in pure air with a temperature under forty. The bad air may sicken you, but cannot kill you; the cold air can and does kill very often.
A New Year’s Night Reverie.
A pale-browed youth, whom pensive thoughts engage, Alone and lonely leans, this festive night,
Upon his desk, where many a charming page
From memory’s leaves impearled gleams pure and bright.
A smile serene lights up that calm, sad face As nimble fancy weaves her witchery ’round
Each glittering page, whereon affections trace
Fond forms of those to whom his heart is bound. .
The silent night exhales a holy peace
That soothes the worrying, weary, wounded soul;	' ' '
Regret’s cruel whisperings within him cease,	!
While fairy sounds their melting accents roll. - • ■
He dreams of home—that dear, far-distant spot. Around whose hallowed hearth the blithe and gay,
With happy hearts, in mirthful pleasures caught, ., . _ Prolong the blessed joys of New Year’s Day.	‘
A lovely vision from the radiant past	•
Dawns sweet, like rosy mom from Orient bowers; ’
A nameless spell around his spirit’s cast,	-
Delicious scents perfume the fleeting hours. .	■ ;
’Tis childhood’s home! Each well-remembered scene, ■ ’ So loved of other days, long since gone by,
Glows softly, like fair Luna’s silvery sheen,	’
Lining with mellow light the circling sky.	-
Once more the wanderer joins the family group, Heart-cries of welcome charm the list’ning air,
Enraptured parents o’er their loved child stoop, '	'
And press love’s kiss, bedewed with joy’s bright tear. ‘
Caresses warm a darling sister gives,	....
Devoted brothers clasp a brother’s hand,	. . ,
How rare and rich the blessings he receives!	’
Ah, simple sight! yet how supremely grand!
What gladsome smiles inwreath each winning face, - ; How purely sparkles love’s resplendent ray,	.
As sits he in that long, long vacant place .	-	.
TTis past career unfolds, when far away.	. ,
Oh, happy youth! Oh I smiling, joyful scene!	■	>
’Tis there commingling loves their fragrance shed; •
Would it were not the phantom of a dream!	.
Ah, cruel I he wakes, to find the vision fled!	•	.
The spell is gone, the tender dream is past, The tearful heart breathes forth its sorrows’ sigh,	’
Blank shadows fall where dreamland’s sunlight flashed] !
Entrancing forms—a tear bedims the eye.	•
The quiet hours glide on; he dreams no more;	.
The lamp’s faint flame scarce lights his gloomy room, ' With halting steps he walks the chilly floor, ’ ’	' ’
Desponding, aimless, sad, alone, alone!	’	■	'
148
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Schtdastii).
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
Ail communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
JEBM8: One year...................... $1 09
Single copies (Sets.) of the publication can be obtained at the Siu-dents’ Office.
The Juniors had no Exhibition during the Holidays, as they used to have.
The dedication of the Community and Congregation of Notre Dame was made on the first day of the year.
It was quite a surprise as well as a pleasure to meet Bro. Urban, Superior of the Lafayette Establishment, who is here on a short visit. He is looking very well, and reports our Lafayette friends in good health.
How sorry we are that we cannotaccept the kind invitation of Rev. F. Corby to spend the Holidays, or at least a portion of them, with him and his flourishing community in Watertown. May he and all have a happy New Year!
The Modern Golden Calf.
As this is the beginning of the new year we deem it highly proper to write on some new subject.
We have chosen our Public Schools.
This subject seems to have escaped the keen eyes of school girls and school boys, the researches of essay writers, the dabbling pen of editors and the gabbling talk of politicians!
Practically, our readers know all about the matter.
Theoretically, they may differ, and in fact must differ.
The public opinion concerning it is just now unsettled, having been changed from what it was some years ago by the evident injustice which the Public School system imposes on all who have conscientious objections to sending their children to them.
We are, as a people, very prone to idolatry;—like the Jews of old, we make a calf which we consider golden, and fall down and worship it under that delusion; and worship it even after we have found out that it is only brass.
The Public School system is the calf that is worshipped by a great number in this country.
Some worship it because they are so’ignorant that they actually believe it to be golden.
Others worship it because they “ can make a good thing ’’ out of it.
But the vast majority of worshippers consist of those who don’t care a straw about the calf—but, without reflection, bow down to the same idol that others bow down to.
The worshippers of this idol look upon Catholics and others who protest against it, as iconoclasts.
Catholics are iconoclasts as far as a desire to do away with godless, irreligious schools may make them iconoclasts.
The worshippers of this idol cry aloud and proclaim that Catholics wish to destroy the Public School system in order to keep the people in ignorance.
Catholics do not wish to keep the people in ignorance, therefore they wish the present system done away with and a better one adopted.
If the State is to continue to tax the people for the support of schools, then it should provide schools to which all may send their children without doing violence to their conscience.
If such schools cannot be established, then stop the hypocritical cry of “ universal education by the State ” and of “free schools.”
The worshippers of this Modern Calf pretend to be fully convinced that Catholics are the enemies of education; that the Catholic Church tries to keep people in ignorance.
As the present system of Public Schools has been so long the general teacher, it would not be surprising to find some persons stupid enough to maintain in good earnest the affirmative of the above propositions.
It is a sad blow to human pride to see to what an extent ignorance and stupidity—or call it prejudice, if you prefer —can take possession of the human mind!
It would be useless to argue the question with those who are thus obfuscated by prejudice. They cannot understand argument.
In a discussion, ‘reasons,’ ‘arguments,’ ‘facts,’ must be brought forward to convince an opponent; but it cannot be reasonably required of the arguer to furnish his opponent with brains.
But there is one fact so patent that even the most stupid can see it. Whether they can draw logical conclusions is another question.
The fact is this, that Catholics not only do their full share in paying taxes to keep up the Public Schools, to which they cannot conscientiously send their children, but they support schools of their own to which they can send their children.
And they receive no helpfrom the State for their schools.
The statu quo is this: Catholics support their own schools, and help, perforce, the worshippers of the Calf to keep it on its tottering legs.
The defenders of the present system of public schools acknowledge that if left to themselves they could not keep them going—and hence they are forced to the humiliating position of receiving aid from Catholics, who, as they know well, cannot consistently make use of the schools.
This Modern Calf, the object of the idolatrous veneration of a certain class of our people, is nothing more, then, than a system of modern pauper schools.
All ArouacL
New Yeab’s cards were distributed quite profusely.
Wb had some sleighing this week, but it was only tolerable.
The Trunk Room has many a call these days. Good things there!
There has been a little skating, but the snow put a stop to it. Too bad!
The immortal Dillon gave no entertainment on Saturday afternoon in South Bend as the students expected.
We were surprised to find that neither the Juniors nor the Minims had a Christmas Tree this year.
Music has been a little dull during the past week, notwithstanding the Jew’s harpserenade.
i
I j
THE SCHOLASTIC.
149
“ Boiled shirts,” standing collars, tight boots and moustaches are in great demand these times.
The large grim stove of the Senior play hall is a great old comforter. Great is the rush for it every morning.
The Seniors have enjoyed two or three balls this week. Tucker is the favorite dance. What rushing after the handkerchiefs!
An artist has been employed to retouch all the oil paintings about the University. He has completed some few already, and they look splendid.
Students are already returning from their homes to the labors of college life for another six months. They all report a good time, and they look greatly refreshed.
One of our neighboring papers somewhat surprised its readers the other morning with the following item: “ Tester morning, about four o’clock P. M., a man with a heel in the hole of his stocking committed arsenic by swallowing a dose of suicide. Tne verdict of the inquest returned a jury that the deceased came to the facts in accordance with his death. He leaves a child and six small wives, three of them twins, to lament the loss of his untimely end.” We never drink.
“May I leave a few tracts?’’ asked a missionary of a lady who responded to his knock. “Leave some tracks? Certainly you may,” said she, looking at him most benignly over her specs; “ leave them with the heel toward the house, if you please."
Subscriptions to the New Tabernacle.
[continued.]
John Joseph Flynn, Montreal, C. E............. $10	00
Thomas Caveny, Wisconsin....................... 10	00
A Friend in New York State...................... 3	00
Prof. Paul Broder, Beloit, Wisconsin.......... 1100
John Piashwa, South Bend, Indiana.............. 10	00
Martin Loshburg, Bertrand, Michigan............ 10	00
Mrs. Hutchinson, Notre Dame, Indiana........... 10	Oo
Mr. E. R. Wills, South Bend, Indiana........... 10	00
Denis Allen, Chicago, Illinois................. 10	00
Patrick Mulvihill, Ireland..................... 10	00
John Carr, Ireland............................. 10	00
Miss Maggie Barrett, Watertown, Wisconsin..... 10 00
Miss Sarah Letourneau, Mount Clemens, Michigan. 10 00
Mrs. Duffy, Chigago, Illinois.................. 10	00
Miss Catherine Foley, Philadelphia............. 10	00
Rev. Theo. Vandepoel, Canada................... 10	00
Henry Casey, South Bend, Indiana....".......... 10	00
Charles Lacase, South Bend, Indiana............ 10	00
An Anonymous Friend............................. 6	00
Mr. Gamache, St. Joseph’s Novitiate............. 2	00
Bro. Urban, C. S. C., Lafayette, Indiana....... 10	00
Joseph Parry, South Bend, Indiana.............. 10	00
Samuel Pany, South Bend, Indiana..............  10	00
[to be continued.]
g The excesses of our youth are drafts upon old age, payable with interest, about thirty years after date. -
■ —	■ o ■	- -
The conquest of passion gives ten times more happiness than we reap from the gratification of it; for curbing our desires is the greatest glory we can arrive at in this world, and will be most rewarded in the next.
Archbishop Manning on Temperance.
At a great temperance torchlight procession held in Trafalgar Square. London, under the auspices of the Catholic Temperance League of the Cross, on the evening of October 27th, his Grace Archbishop Manning spoke thus, according to the Catholic Opinion: The Archbishop came forward amidst the most enthusiastic demonstrations of welcome, and said that having had their “autumn manoeuvres,” they would now go into huts for the winter; and so from this time forward they would have meetings in the great halls and school-rooms all through the winter. They had been most successful in making teetotalers in the past summer and autumn, and he should shortly ascertain the number a ided to their ranks. He asked those who heard him to each fix upon some, friend who loved drinking and' pray for him, but not approach him with a long face or with preaching, for he (Dr. Manning) knew what it was to preach, and he could get but few to listen. But let them tell their drinking friend that he was robbing his wife, taking the bread out of the mouths of his children, pulling he clothes off their backs and the shoes off their feet; and et them ask him how he could be such a fool. Let them bring such a man to him, and he should be happy to see him. The desire and prayer of his heart was that there should not be in all London any Catholic man or woman who did not live as practical Catholics. Next he wanted to have every Catholic child in a Catholic school. How could that be brought about? By every father and mother being an example of sobriety. If every man and woman in his flock gave up drink, every one of their homes would be a peaceful and happy home—fathers and mothers would live in peace, and their children would be obedient and in schools. He did not wish to be an enemy to publicans and the like, and he hoped they did not think he had any ill-will towards them. - He only wished they had a better trade. Let them set up in a better trade,- and he hoped they might grow rich. If they could not get any other way of stopping drinking he proposed a great strike, and the strike should be this: Let them make up their minds to be “locked out” of the public houses, and get all their freinds to join them in their strike. He honored and loved the workingman who gave up drink. He did not think much of fine people giving it up. They do hot labor or toil—they do not spend their strength; still, if they gave up drink it was a blessing to them. But when the workingman, who used his strength all day long, gave up drink, he honored that man, because he had shown he had strength of will to do what was right. Having called upon women to give up drink and children not taste it, the Archbishop concluded, amid loud cheers, by asking those who were not teetotalers to take the pledge, and those who were to renew it. The Archbishop then retired from the meeting amid renewed cheering.—London Illustrated Cath. Magazine.
The Straitsville, Ohio, great vein of coal suitable for smelting ore in the blast furnace in the raw uncooked state, is from ten to twelve feet in depth, and lies from ten to -twelve feet above the railroad track. Above and below this vein of coal is found four veins of red hematite or limestone ores of from thirty to fifty per cent, metal, each vein of an average depth of fourteen inches, producing twenty-five thousand tons crude ore per acre. The area of the ore field is much greater than the coal, extending over 60,000 acres, and will produce 3,000,000,000 tons.—
150	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Public Schools—How the Money Goes.
In the thirty-one States having a permanent school fund, the total amount is reported at §65,850,572.93.
The expending such an immense amount of m mey for school purposes has been commjntel upon by the official visitors of the Military Aculemy, West Point, N. Y., in the following emphatic terms: “Tnefact that out of one hundred and thirty-four app >intees, so large a number as forty-nine were rejected on the literary examination, was a surprise to the Board, as no doubt it will be to the country. The Board take occision to say, from their own observation on the spot, that the result is due not to any undue elevation of the standard of admission, nor to any excessive severity in the examination, but in some cases to the inconsiderateness in making the appointments; in others.to the failure of the appointee to appreciate the honor and duty to which he is called; in aTew others to the lack of facilities for preliminary education; and most of all, to want of thoroughness in the schools of our country with respect to primary work. The Academy owes it to itself and to its influence as a national institution on the whole system of popular education to render and publish to the world this honest verdict. If our school boards and superintendents, and teachers in the North and in the South, in the East and in the West, will but heed the verdict, use due diligence to correct this great defect, some abiding good may come from the mortifying experience of this year’s examination of candidates for admission to the Academy.”—Exchange.
His Satanic Majesty and. Sismark.
Recently a wall in one of the cities of Germany was found ornamented with a magnificent drawing, representing a vast cathedral with a rope around it, at which Bismark was pulling with all his might, and a figure of the devil standing at his side and reg.irding his efforts with great curiosity. The following interesting dialogue was appended in explanation:
His Satanic Majesty.—What the d—1 are you doing there ?
Bismark.—I am trying to pull down the Church.
H. S. M.—Indeed, you are going to pull down the Church! and how long .do you think it will take you ?
Bismark.—About three or four years.
H. S. M.—Indeed! Well, I have been at the same job these 1,800 years and have not accomplished it yet. If you do it in three or four years, I will resign my office in your favor.	,	_____________
The bridge to be constructed over the Frith of Forth, Scotland, will be the largest in the world. Its height will be one hundred and fifty feet, and the number of spans nearly one hundred. The great span in the centre is to be fifteen hundred feet, or nearly one-third of a mile in width, and the smaller spans one hundred and fifty feet wide. -It is estimated that the structure will cost about ten million dollars.	.
M. Guizot will be eighty-seven on the 4th of October next. He fell from office when sixty-one, and has ever since disdained to accept any position.	•
The Convention of authors of “Beautiful Snow” will not be held at Atlanta. The theatre in that city is not large enough to hold them alt	.
BAILROAD MISHAPS.
Her back was all I saw of her, .
To see her face I tried, in vain, Until her fellow-passenger •
Got up and left the train.
I changed my seat and looked again ;
So sweet a face I never saw 1 An eye with depths of soul within,
A face without a flaw.
But as I gazed I saw a tear
Roll down her opal-tinted cheek ;
And casting off all thought of fear,
I courage found to speak ;
“ Why are yon weeping, fairest maid ?
Say, why should so much beauty cry ?”
I do not weep,” she tartly said:
“ I’ve got a cinder in my eye 1 ”
In the Illinois state Prison at Joliet, recently, a convict named Henry Williams died while under a dreadful punishment, which the humanity of the age seems to admit, to its great disgrace. It is thus described:
“The modus operand! of the punishment is this: The bath is filled almost full of artesian water, which is very cold ; the victim is made to strip, and get in with his back towards the foot of the tub. He is then told to sit down, and the fellows with big muscles take their position one on each side, and one at the head. Then, at a signal from Capt. Hall, or Deputy Keeper, whoever may be present, the victim is suddenly pushed down and held on the bottom of the tub, the third seizes the feet, and there they hold him until he is strangled.”
What is the punishment of the lash compared to this? The officers who murdered the unfortunate convict ought to be hanged, and a law passed forbidding all such cruel punishments in the future, with the severest penalties.— Exchange.
Mr. Frederick W. Schneider, of the Troy Press, set and distributed from Dec. 12,1872, to Dec. 12,1873,3,234,203 ems. This amount divided among 312 working days, gives 10,366 ems per day, averaging in round numbers 10,000 per day, with a little margin of 114,192. The highest number set in any one day was 17,485. For thirty-eight days Mr. Schneider set 12,000 ems per day, and for five weeks averaged 70,000 per week. For thirty-four weeks he set 60,000 ems. The matter was of a general nature, and outside of any department.
A young gentleman, a telegraph operator in one of the offices, the other day, after repeated calls for a young lady operator in another office, at last got a response, then he telegraphed back to her: “I have been trying to get you for the last half hour!” In a moment the following spicy reply came tripping back to him over the wires from the telegraphic maiden: “That’s nothing. There is a young man here been trying to do the same thing for the last two years, and he hasn’t got me yet.”
One of our professors lately, in explaining to a’class of young ladies the theory according to which the body is entirely renewed every seven years said: “ Thus, Miss B;, in seven years you will in reality be no longer Miss B.” “J sincerely hope I shan’t,” demurely responded the girl, casting down her eyes.—Acta Columbiana.	.
THE SCHOLASTIC.	151
A judge recently asked a criminal if he had anything to offer to the court. The reply was that he only had $5, and he had given that to his lawyer.
A sour old bachelor, who once had thoughts of matrimony, said he changed his mind when he found that the girl and all her people were against it.
A Man in Elgin commenced his career as milkman in Chicago in 1852 by delivering fifteen gallons a day. Now he sends to the city 15,000 gallons every morning. That artesian well is what does it.
It is believed that the paper which has the most general circulation among men is the paper of tobacco, but the paper which has the finest points and is most generally circulated among women is the paper of needles.
A.Nice Question of Taste.—Jeweller—“What kind of a chain would you like ? ” Young Man—“ Well, I don’t know, hardly. What kind of a chain would you think I ought to have; that is, what style would be the most becoming for a young man what carries groceries to some of the best families in town ? ”
When Arthur was a very small boy his mother reprimanded him one day for some misdemeanor. Not knowing if, his father began to talk to him on the same subject. Looking up in his face, Arthur said solemnly, “My mother has ’tended to me.”
Johnny Green’s father always made it a practice to whiph im at home whenever he got whipped at school. On one occasion he got a little tincture of rattan, but the teacher forgot to report it to his father until nearly a week had passed away; but hearing of it at last, he called the boy to him one evening. “ Johnny, I didn’t kao w you got whipped the other day,” said he. “You didn’t? Well, if you’d ben in my breeches you’d have known it.”
A few days since one of our popular attorneys called upon another member of the profession and asked his opinion upon a certain point of law. The lawyer to whom the question was addressed drew himself up and said : “I generally get paid for what I know.” The questioner drew a half dollar “ fractional ” from his pocket, handed it to. the other and coolly remarked: “ Tell me all you know and give me the change.” There is a coldness between the parties now. ‘	'
By the harbor of New London there was once a long old rope-walk, with a row of square window-holes fronting the water. In time of war a British Admiral was cruising off that coast, and had a very good chance to enter and destroy the town. He was once asked afterward why he did not do it. He replied he should have done so “ if it had not been for that formidable long fort whose guns entirely commanded the harbor.” He had been scared off by the old rope-walk.
It has been found out why some persons cannot sleep. It is because “ there is an accumulation mainly of carbonic acid, that accumulation being favored and controlled by reflex action of the nervous system, which thus protects the organism from excessive oxidation, and allows the organism to manifest its normal functional activity throughout a succeeding rythmic period.” We should not have thought a little thing like that would keep one awake. Persons who can’t sleep, however, should put some of the above things into their organism before retiring.—Index Niag.
The new kingdom of Italy already rivals more ancient and respectable States in the amount of her national debt. Her liabilities at present reach the sum of $807,472,920. Her revenue for the present year is estimated at $259,000, 000, which however falls short of her expenditures by from $30,000,000 to $50,000. Worse even than that: while-there is no likelihood that her necessary expenses will fall at all within their estimated limit, the estimatejof her revenue has every year exceeded the actual sum realized.-
UNIVERSITY OP NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1344, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Bailroad, t is easy of access from all parts of the United States. .
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, --------	$5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- ISO 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	12	50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	-- 10 00
Use of Violin, ----------	-	2	00
Drawing. --	----------15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5	0O
Graduation Fee—Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 16 GO Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra,	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.	,
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Bev. A. LSmONNlBB, C.S.C.
President.
THE BEST PAPER! TRY IT!
BEAUTIFFULLY ILLUSTRATED.
The scientific American now in its 29th year, enjoys the widest circulation of any weekly newspaper of the kind in the world. A new volume commences January 3. IsT4.
Its contents embrace the latest and most interesting information pertaining to the Industrial, Mechanical, and Scientific progress of the World; Descriptions, with beautiful engravings, of New Inventions. New Implements, New Processes, ana Improved Industries of all kinds; Useful No-es, Recipes, Suggestions and advice, by Practical writers, for Workmen and Employers, in all the various arts.
The SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN is the cheapest and best illustrated weekly paper published. Every number contains from 10 to 15 original engravings of new machinery and, novel inventions.
jWIZVGrS, illustrating Improvements, Discoveries, and Important Works, pertaining to Civil and Mechanical Engineering, Milling, Mining and Metallurgy; Records of the latest progress in the Applications of Steam, Steam Engineering. Railways, Shipbuilding, Navig.tion, Telegraphy, Engineering, Electricity, Magnetism, Light and Heat.
FARMERS, Mechanics, Engineers, Inventors, Manufacturers, Chemists. Lovers of Science. Teachers. Clergymen. Lawveis, and People of all Professions, will find the SCIENTIFIC AMEBIC AJV useful to them. It shouldihave a place in every Family, Library. Study, ana Counting Room; in every Reading Room, College, Academy, or School.	•
A year's numbers contain 832 pages and Several Hundred Engravings. Thousands of volumes are preserved for binding and ni-erence The practical receipts are well worth ten times the subscription price. Terms $3 a year by mail. Discount to Clubs. Specimens •ent free. May be had of all News Dealers.	■
TD A r 11 IC AT'T’Cl bi connection with the SCAAiJN'-JT-ZaLJdjIN JLO. tific American, Messrs. Munn & Co. are solicitors of American and Foreign Patents, and have the largest establishment in the world. More than fifty thousand applications have been made for patents through their agency.
Patents are obtained on the best terms, Models of New Inventions and Sketches examined and advice free. All patents are published in the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN the week they issue. Send for pamphlet, 110 pages, containing laws and full directions for obtaining Patents.
Address for the Paper, or concerning Patents, MUNn & CO., 37 Park Row, New York. Branch Office, cor. F and 7th Sts., Washing-
152	THESCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
WEEKLY, SEMI-WEEKLY, AND DAILY,
THE WEEKLY SUN is too widely known to require any extended recommendation; but the reasons which have already given it fifty thousand subscribers, and which will, we hope, give it many thousands more, are briefly as follows:	_
It is a first-rate newspaper. All the news of the day will be found in it. condensed when unimportant, at full length when of moment, and always presented in a clear, intelligible, and interesting manner.
It is a first-rate family paper, full of enrertaiingand instructive reading of every kind, but containing nothing that can offend the most delicate and scrupulous taste.
It is a first-rate story paper. The best tales and romances of current literature are carefully selected and legibly printed in its pages.
It is a first-rate agricultural paper. The most fresh and instructive articles on agricultural topics regularly appear in this department.
It is an independent political paper, belonging to no party and wearing no collar. It fights for principle, and for the election of the best men to office. It especially devotes its energies to theexposuieof the great corruptions tnat now weaken and disgrace our country, and threaten to undermine republican institutions altogether. It has no fear of knaves, and asks no favors from their supporters.
It reports the fashions for the ladies and the markets for the men especially the cattle-markets, to which it pays particular attention.
Finally, it is the cheapest paper published. One dollar a jear will secure it for any subscriber. It is not necessary to get up a clnb in order to have THE WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Any one who sends a single dollar will get the paper for a year.
We have no travelling agents.	'
THE WEEKLY	Eight pages, fifty-six col-
umns. Only $1.00 a year. No discounts from this rate.
THE SEMI-WEEKLY STEN.—Same size as theDaiiySun. $2.OOaye»r. Adiscountof 20 per cent, to clubs of IO or over.	.
THE DAILY STTDT.—A large four-page newspaper of twenty-eight columns. Daily circulation over 120,000. All the news for Scents. Subscription price, 50 cents a month or $6.00 a year. To clubs of X O or over a discount of 20 per cent. _A.<l<Ir<;ss, “THE STHV, ’’New York City.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay,
JERRY KN1GHT, I CAPTAIN MILLS, j Proprietors,
nov 15—tf.
PEWSILVAXIA CENTRAL DOUBLE TEAOK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman’s Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New York without Change.
Isttrain leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a.'m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	•'	9.00 p. m “	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCDLLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh,.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
P. R. MYERS, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Ag’t. Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago. ♦ Second day.
X.OUXSVXZ.Z.B N. ALBANY & CHICAGO H.H.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:
GOING NOE TH.
Pass..............7.29	p. m.
Freight...........2.48	a. m.
Freight...........8.57	P. M.
■ Pass..-...........9.24	a.m.
GOING SOUTH
Pass................8 23 p.m.
Freight.............10.47 A.3t.
Freight.............4.45 a.m.
Pass............... ,11.23 a.m.
H. N, CAN IFF, Agent.
On and after Sunday, November 2,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows: GOING EAST.
2.32 a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 30; Cleveland, 2.45 p. m. ; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.10 a. st. (No. 2), Mail, over Main and Air Lines; Arrives at Elkhart, 10.50; Toledo, 5.10 p. m.
11.S3 r- m. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. m.; Buffalo 4.05 A. sr.
9.11 p. m. (No. 6k Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. x.
5.10 P. M. (No 52J, Local Freight. •
GOING WEST.
7.05 a. si. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.10; Chicago 11 A. M.
5.20 a. 3t. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, 8 50 a. m.
6.42 a. st. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7.35; Salem Crossing. 8.05; Grand Crossing, 9.37; Chicago 10.15.
5.45 p. 3t. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 6.40; Chicago, 9.20 P. x.
9 <10 a. x. (No. 51), Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GEDDINGS, Freight Agent.
C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent. South Bend.
’	CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
^“Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9 and 15; East. Nos. 2, 10 and 16. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Line points change cars at Elkhart without delay. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 1.40 p. it., running through to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a. x., and 4.05 p. st., running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers for Detroit must take Nos. 2, 8 or 16, as through tickets are not good via Air Line,—2 and 8 carry through coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance Tickets, R. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent, or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Depot, at the head of Lafayette and Franklin Streets, South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. S. POWELL, Ticket Agent.
NILES B SOUTH BEND R.R.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles,	-	7.00 a m.	Arrive South Bend	-	7.35 a.m
it	9.21 a.m.	44	44	9.55 a.m
	5.20 p.m.	tt	tt	5.55 p.m
Leave South Bend,	GOING NORTH.	•		
	- 8.20 a.m.	Arrive Niles, -	- 8.50 a.m
It	tt	11.00 a.m.	_	tt	1130 p.m
tt	it	6.50 p.m. |	“	- SUNDAY TRAINS.		7.20 p.m
Arrive South Bend,	- 10.00 a.m.	Leave^ South Bend,	- 10.30 a.m
t	44	6.00 p.m.		7.00 p.m
	-	S	. R.^KING, Agent,	South Bend.
I
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-Qp ison Street Bridge, as follows:
ji
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisi- ■ ana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington^ Express (Western Division))
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line, - ‘
St.Louis and SpringfieldLightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE. '
♦9:30 a.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
[,♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
+9:00 p.m.
$9:45 p.m.
♦8:00 p.m]
♦4:30 p.m J
♦4:30 p.m.
*9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
|7:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only ± Except Saturday. | Dail y. § Except Monday. .	•
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St.Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	„
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. c. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
-	- CHICAGO. '	■	- CHICAGO.