C I) e	01 n$ tic
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DA.M2E. ftu flit faimsts of the jMeds.
,	- “ILJLUOTt OMZNIA. VrvcTT.” -
Vol. II. UNIVEBSITT OF NOTBE DAME, IND., APBIL 17, 1869. No. 32.
Hong-Kong, China.
.	BY GEO. F. B. COLLINS.
The approaches to this harbor are through several islands, and at every turning-point the uninitiated mariner expects to see the city loom up; but he is kept in this suspense until he first sights a yellow bank upon- which is situated a hospital. When the hospital grounds are in full view oif the bow, by turning his head to the left the city of Hong Kong presents itself, which is then three miles distant. The houses seem like so many white dots, and to the rear of them are mountains of immense altitudes. Upon the highest of them, called Telegraph Hill, is situated a signal station. The merchants can readily understand what manner of vessel is approaching its anchorage, long before the new comer is in sight of the city. The watchman at the signal station communicates—by means of the several flags at his command and the many different round, square and triangular signals—the nature and nation of the ship. These respective signals are to be observed at the top of the hill by the citizens; and, being familiar with them, they not only know the nation, but also the rig of the arriving vessel, whether it be ship, barque, brig or steamer. Merchants know by the signals long before they can see even whether a vessel is coming at all. In a little while after the vessel has been signalized she is supposed to have come at her proper anchorage—the French, English, American, etc, generally dropping among those of their own nation, although there are no harbor rules compelling such action. •
Before the anchor is fairly settled in its position, the “new comer” is actually swarmed with tailors, jewellers, tinkers and washwomen—each endeavoring to outvie each other in the cheapness of their wares and merchandize. The Chinese
men and women are to be seen clambering up from all sides, and when safely over the bulwarks a rope is thrown down into their sampan (boat), and the partners fasten it to whichever article he chooses' to dispose to the sailors of the freshly anchored vessel. In case the vessel is French—all over the ship the cute Chinaman can be heard with his “I thinkey Frenchman belong No. meaning thereby that in their estimation there is . no other nation so congenial to them as the
French.	.
It matters little what manner of vessel it is: in case it is an American, they will say—“Oh! Bclliken man belong No. 1 proper.” And so every vessel receives its share of blarney, in order that the Chinaman may receive his share of their earnings. One soon sickens of their nauseous bodies, and’it is a “consummation devoutly to be wished ” that the officer may go ashore to rid himself of the Bedlam. A sampan is called alongside, and the tired mariner is soon on his way for terra firma. ‘	'
Their sampans are shaped like a curved and split cucumber (a homely comparison, but approximating very much to their boats), and are generally navigated by women. In no part of China are sampans rowed—being always sculled along by having a long oar fastened to the stern. The price per passenger is sixteen cash, equalling tWo cents of our money.
Ashore, every mercantile house is of whitewashed stone, as also the Europeans’ residences; whereas the habitations of the Chinese are dingy, and built of bamboo. The floors of a Chinaman’s tenement never were known to be anything but a perfect model of cleanliness. It seems to be part and parcel of their existence to be continually scrubbing floors and otherwise cleansing woodwork. If many of them would be kind enough to “ do likewise ” to their clothing we wouldn’t be quite so anxious to evade their presence.
Hong-Kong is under the rule of the English
259
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.

crown, and herein is somewhat of a revenue to that nation. A Chinaman caught in any illegal transaction is immediately imprisoned, and no time is lost by English officials until poor “ pigtail ” is clothed in white canvas and ushered into the chain gang. As many as fifty are chained to each other by the ankles, and are used as beasts of burden. They are far enough apart to allow each of them to carry two large baskets across their shoulders (a la milk pail), and their occupation. consists of macadamizing roads and removing rubbish. Each convict is clothed in a white suit, representing that they are in the English service. Each one in the gang is provided with a belt, upon which is his number. In case any laziness is manifested, the overseer writes down his number, and woe be unto his hide at roll-call.
Hong-Kong is an island, and, although once in the dominion of China, has no more right to be called China than has New York city. The Chinese have nothing whatever to do with the place any more than work for England’s aggrandizement. A portion of every coolie’s earnings certainly and surely enters the coffers of Great Britain, albeit they toil day and night and are taxed very heavily. An example of the magnanimity (?) of her Hinglish ’ighness. ----------------------
Death of Lamartine.
A cable dispatch some time ago announced the death of Alphonse de Lamartine, who for many years shared with his friend Victor Hugo the highest poetical fame of the century of France. Lamartine was born in Macon, on the Saone, on the 21st of October, 1792, and was consequently in the 77th year of his age.
His father, the Chevalier de Lamartine de Prat, was captain of a regiment of cavalry at the outbreak of the great French revolution: fought with the Swiss Guards in defense of the French throne against the insurgents, on the 10th of August, 1792; passed the reign of terror in prison; and on the fall of Robespierre, retired with his wife and child to the village of Milla, near Macon. It was here that the poet’s poetic education was begun, under the discipline of his mother, and “ the world of emotion, and love and revery” were opened to him.
Lamartine’s first appearance in public as a poet was in his Meditations Poetigues—published in 1820, which were received with great - -enthusiasm. Soon after he became secretary to
the French embassy at Naples, and was married to a young and wealthy English lady named Birch, who died in 1863. He resided in Naples, Rome and Paris until 1823, when he published his Nouvelles Meditations, which was followed in 1825 by the Dernier Chant de Childe Harold, an imitation of Byron. This contained such severe allusion to Italy that it was answered by an offensive pamphlet from an Italian revolutionist named Col. Pepe, with whom he fought a duel, and was slightly wounded. In 1830 he became a member of the French Academy, and published his Harmonies Poetigues et Religieuses, in which it is said that the throne and the altar had their most brilliant and earnest defenders.
About this time, previous to the revolution of 1830, Lamartine was appointed minister plenipotentiary to Greece, but on the success of the revolution relinquished diplomacy, and turned his attention to politics, becoming an unsuccessful candidate for the Chamber of Deputies from Toulon and Dunkirk. In 1832 he made his celebrated voyage in the Orient, in company with his wife and daughter, having chartered and furnished a vessel for himself, travelling like a king.. He visited Jerusalem and other interesting places, and after sixteen months returned home and published his Voyage en Orient. His daughter died at Beyrout during this voyage.
On returning to France, Lamartine found that he had been chosen by the electors of Ber-gues, Nord, as deputy, and took his place in the Tribune, saying, “ I return to France to bring my stone for the modern edifice, if indeed it be given to our generation to found anything.” He made a great impression as an orator in the Chamber of Deputies, on various questions of general human interest, and was at once conservative and progressive. Between this period and the revolution of 1848 Lamartine published Jocelyn, one of his most famous poems, the His-toire de Girondins, and one or two other works of lesser importance.	’
It was during the revolution of 1848 that the poet took the most prominent political position in France. He was among the first to propose a provisional government, and his eloquence on the 24th of February, 1848, decided its establishment.
He took .the department of foreign affairs in the Government, and his courage and eloquence gave him a-predominance in the direction of affairs.
He retired to piyate life after the coup d'etant of Napoleon in December, 1851, and has since come before the public only as a literary man,
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
producing many works in prose and verse, the chief of which are the “ Histoire de la Revolution de 1848,” “ Confidences " and “ Raphael."
During the latter part of his life, Lamartine has been troubled in pecuniary affairs, his extravagant tastes rendering vast sums insufficient, and for these he vexed the public in repeated appeals for the charity of subscriptions. Meanwhile old age did its work, and was an expected visitor.—Cincinnati Chronicle.
Scientific Department.
No. VIH.—The Microscope.
[2d Article ]
In a former number of The Scholastic Year we explained a few principles concerning the Microscope; but as the space allowed us in that number of the paper was too limited to admit a lengthy article, and as our subject was much too complex to be treated 'in only a few lines, we promised to furnish, on some future day, a more extended description of that interesting instrument. We intend to redeem, to-day, our promise.
For the better understanding of the principles on which the different kinds of Microscopes are constructed, it may perhaps be useful to first state the nature and certain properties of light.
What is the nature of light? There is, as yet, no positive and satisfactory answer to this most mooted question. Some suppose that light consists of innumerable extremely small particles of matter, which, proceeding from the sun and other luminous bodies, cause vibrations in the air—or the thin substance, thinner and finer than air, called ether—through which they pass, and so reach the optical nerve. This was the theory of Newton, and is known as the Emission or Corpuscular theory ; it has but few, if any, advocates at the present day. Others think, with Mr. Rankine, that light results from the rotation of the particles of luminiferous, ether on their axes, acted upon by magnetic force. This is called the Oscillatory theory; it never was much in vogue. It is now, however, generally believed by physicists that light is simply and solely the results of undulations in an ether which pervades all space. The vibrations of this ether, devoid of any material substance whatever, carry light wherever it extends. Its presence is made conscious when those wavelets reach the delicate nerves of sight. We call this the Endulatory theory, and is now almost universally received. How long it will
251
stand we know not; but we are strongly inclined to believe that being a mere hypothesis—and not very satisfactory at that—it will soon be abandoned for a more scientific one .... yet to be devised. According to this theory, light is motion and not matter, and it influences the eye in the same manner as sound acts upon the ear.
But if the nature of light is difficult to determine, its properties—at least many of them— are pretty well known. We will, however, mention here only those which directly relate to our subject:
I.	The undulations of light radiate from every point of a luminous body, in every direction.
II.	In a uniform medium, i. e., a medium of equal density and same composition throughout, is propagated in straight lines and with a uniform velocity.
IH. When rays of light in passing through one medium come to strike against the surface of another medium, some are transmitted through it, some others are absorbed in it, and some others still are reflected, that is, turned back into the medium through which they previously passed. Reflected rays alone cause objects to be visible; they obey the following laws: 1st. The angles of incidence and reflection are equal in the same plane. 2d. The more obtuse is the angle formed by the incident and reflective rays, the larger is the quantity of light reflected. 3d. The more polished and light-colored are the surfaces against which the incident rays strike, the greater likewise is the amount of light reflected. 4th. Rays of light refl< cted from plane surfaces have the same relation to each other after reflection as before. 5th. Rays of light reflected from concave surfaces, or mirrors, are collected and converge to a point called focus. 6th. Rays of light reflected from convex surfaces are separated, and diverge as if proceeding from a point on the opposite side of the polished surface, called the virtual focus.
IV. A ray of light passing obliquely from one medium into another of different density is refracted, i. e., turned from its straight course. When it passes into a denser medium it is refracted towards a line perpendicular to the surface; and, on the contrary, when it goes through a rarer medium it is refracted from the perpendicular. •Refracted rays obey the following laws: 1st. Rays of light entering in, and passing through, a transparent convex body—a convex lens—are more inclined to each other after their passage than before. 2d. Rays of light that pass through a convex lens are separated, or inclined from each other.

a
a
252	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
A lens is a highly transparent body bounded by two polished surfaces, one at least of which is curved. Six varieties of lenses are used in instruments of dioptrics. They are generally made of glass or rock-crystal; and have, from their shape, received the following names: The double convex lens has its two surfaces convex; the piano convex lens has its first surface plane and the other convex; the meniscus has one surface concave and the other convex, but the convexity is greater than the concavity, therefore it is thickest in the middle; the double concave lens has its two surfaces concave; the piano concave lens has one surface concave and the other plane; the concavo 'convex lens has its first surface concave, and the other convex. Its thickness is greatest at the ends. The concavity exceeding the convexity, it follows that if the surfaces were continued they would never meet.
The first three of these varieties are properly convex lenses, and the others are concave lenses. The lenses of each class have the same effect, but in a more or less degree. • The general effect of convex lenses is to colled) rays of light; that of concave lenses, to separate them. The double convex and double concave lenses are more powerful in collecting or separating rays of light than the two other varieties of their respective class.
[to be continued.]
• J. C. C.
The Yale Literary Magazine.—The closing .number of the current volume of this excellent magazine has just been received. It contains the following articles: “Pinchbeck,” a discriminating analysis of various kinds of shams; “ Last Fourth,” a humorous poetical description of the Fourth of July in the form of a marine and sardine excursion; “Two Papers,” a statistical account of Bound Table and The Nation-, “Nice.”—very gneiss poetry; “ George Arnold,” a personal sketch of an author perhaps better known in journalistic literature as “McArone;” “ Pot Boilers, ” which comes down a little hard onjokists; “Capital Crimes,” the expression of opinions diametrically opposite to those of our “Catholic Christian” last week; “Velocipede,” an apology for that popular and amusing novelty; “ The Fourth Estate,” by which journalists are meant, as forming a squarte with the “three learned professions;” “Minor Topics,” principally of local interest; “Memorabilia Yalensia;” “ Editorial Tableand finally the judicious and talented “Editor’s Farewell.” It is needless to
say anything in praise of so firmly established a magazine. We wish it continued success.
---------------
Number 14 of the Yale College Courant has duly come to us, filled as usual with a number of interesting and well-written articles. W e must, however, beg to take exception to a Lecture on Ancient vs. Modern Languages, by the Rev. Prest. (!) of a College in Illinois. It is certainly not a model of elegance and conciseness of style, nor is it in good taste. Its desultoriness and want of dignity maks it positively unreadable.
College BuiLiLETiiiv.
Arrival of Students at Notre Dame.
April 11th.
D.	B. Miller,	Plymouth, Indiana.
William Miller,	Plymouth, Indiana.
April 13th.
George C. Buck,	Sturgis, Micigan.
Edward H. Campau,	Spring Wells, Mich.
Tables of Honor.
Senior Department.
April 9th—W. Waldo, J. M. Gearin, Jas. Edwards, Jas. O’Reilly, T. Heery, J. Wilson, G. Chane, T. Kinsella, J. A. Fox, J. Cunnea.
Junior Department.
April 9th—J. Orb, John W. Coppinger, R. Staley, William B. Clarke, P. O’Connell, J. Langenderfer, C. Hutchings, D. Bland, Wm. Fletcher, A. Hemsteger, C. Walters.
Honorable Mention.'
Choir.
Soprani—X. Hackman, R. Staley, C. Hutchings, M. Mahoney, M. Ody, L. Hilsendegen, T. Campbell, R. Hutchings.
Alti—T. Ward, M. Foote, G. Kahman, J. McHugh.
Tenori—H. P. Morancy, F. Ingersoll, S. Corby, B. Vocke, D. Diemer, Ivo Buddeke, W. Rhodes, Bassi—J. Garharstine, J. Vocke, H. B. Keeler.
M. S. Ryan, J. Zahm, J. Garrity, D. Tighe.
Vocal Classes.
E.	Wile, B. Roberts, J. Mulhall, J. Edwards, J O’Reilly, A. J. Chane, S. Corby, M. S. Ryan, R. Staley, Z. Vander veer.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	253
r
Instrumental Music.
CORNET BAND.
W. Walker, D. W. Coonce, W. H. Bird, John Fleming, J. Eisenman,-J. Mulhall, J. Vocke, L. Schmeider, J. Garharstine, J. Dupuis, D. J. Diemer, A. Maierhoffer, F. Metzger, B. Vocke, W. H. Sangster, M. S. Ryan.
Many have noticed of late a remarkable improvement in the Cornet Band, and we think that new members have joined it since our last report. As their playing can never be heard to better advantage to themselves and greater enjoyment to their hearers than when they play outside, we hope Professor. O’Neil will march out every Wednesday; and a little music around the Lake would be acceptable in the evenings.
Piano, Sr.—J. Garharstein, A. Combs, J. Campeau, W. Wrape, J. Vocke, J. Wilson, J. Eisenman.
Piano, Jr.—J. Kahmann, C. Hutchings, H. Hug, L. Wilson, J. Walter, F. Bulger, G. Kahmann, R. Staley, E. Lafferty, H. Odendhal, M. Ody, L. Billings.
Violin, Sr.—D. Diemer, J. Staley, L. Schmeider, Ivo Buddeke, W. Coonce, J. Metzger, B.
•	'O'
Vocke, L. Gaynor, A. Menard, M. Carney.
Violin, Jr.—J. Rumely, V. Hackman, M. Foote, C. Berdell, A. Hemsteger, J. McGuire, G. Pearce, F. Ingersoll, L. Hayes.
• Flute, Sr.—L. Vandeveer, L. Dupler.
Flute, Jr.—J. Deeban, W. Clarke.
Guitar—J. McClain.
Honorable Mention, Minim Department.
Orthography and Reading.
First Class :—G. Berry, W. Canavan, Geo. J. Gross, E. Haydel, H. Jones, G. Jenkins, G. Lyons, E. Lyons, F. Obert, M. Smyth, Geo. Trussell, H. Voorhees.
Second, Class :—Wm. Byrne, C. Blazy, E. DeGroot, J. Ford, W. Hendricks, G. Jenkins.
Tiird Class:—J. Bennett, H. Fear, J. Frank, - J. McDermott, H. Trentman.	-
Piano, Minim.—Wm. Trussel, C. C. Campeau, A. Trumpff.
Violin.—H. Jones.	-
Rev. Father Hallinan, D. D., paid a visit to Notre Dame last Wednesday, and was greeted by his many friends of the Faculty and by his former pupils. We were pleased to see him so much improved in health.
Chronicle.
Last week we published one of-the many letters sent to Notre Dame by old students: we are pleased to know that parents entertain no* less high regards for this University. We infer this from the very numerous letters received by the officers and the professors of the College. We publish the following one for the sake of its shortness:
H-----, Ky., April 7, 1869.
W. Corby, Esq —Pear Sir : Inclosed please find a check for $100 to pay inclosed bill. The surplus of nine dollars you can hand to G------. I avail myself of this opportunity to express to you my high appreciation of your school. G----- is doing infinitely better than he ever did at any other.	Yours very truly,
J. D. H.
Over one thousand Catalogues were mailed on demand since September, 1868. If we judge from outward appearances and the general good spirit, earnest application and cheerfulness of the students, we may safely say that no year as yet has been more prosperous than this of 1868-69.
The life of the student at Notre Dame is entirely devoted to the object for which he enters the College, viz: study. Study rendered pleasing, attractive, by a generous rivalry, by promotions, regularity, progress, and exclusion of all noxious sights and things in general which prove to be not only a hindrance to, but the real stumbling block of, advancement in learning. Here also, in the pure atmosphere of a fine well cultivated country famous for the beauty of its sceneries; on the open base-ball field, around the limpid lakes or under the shady groves of Notre Dame, the student finds plenty of recreative sports and real enjoyments. No wonder that the old students think of Notre Dame in their distant homes, and wish to revisit.it once more during life; no wonder that the great festive days of their Alma Mater are yet counted among their happiest, and that they treasure up in their memory the remembrance of those eventful days when Notre Dame counted them among her alumni. But now more than ever does Notre Dame lay claims to the kind affections and souvenir of her children, for she has been most-ingenious in exerting herself to please them as well as teach them.
The Literary Societies, four in number, viz:

254	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
St. Aloysius Philodemic Society, St. Edward’s Literary Association, United Scientific Association, St. Cecilia Philomathean, have all been eminently successful in promoting the welfare and improvement of the young gentlemen who have connected themselves with them. Meetings have been held regularly every week by each Society. Essays, declamations and debates have succeeded each other week after week; each Society being composed of a sufficient number of members to permit that the good work do not linger.
We remember having attended a meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, during which the subject for debate—“ Resolved, That Public Education is more beneficial to the citizen than Private Education” elicited so ardently the interest of the house that when the six regularly appointed speakers on the question had taken their seats, volunteers succeeded each other with a determination to carry the day for the side to which they were pledged. The debate lasted four hours.*
We have not had the pleasure of attending the meetings of the other Societies, the St. Aloysius Philodemic excepted (where we found many signs of prosperity), but we know full well that the St. Edward’s Literary Association and the United Scientific keep pace with the time. We have many evidences of this.
To these four efficient Literary Societies we may join the Thespian Dramatic Society, whose performances this year have been among the best College entertainments at Notre Dame. ’ The Philharmonic Society has also won many laurels this year, and has largely contributed to the pleasantness of our exhibitions.
The Choir is the ne plus ul'.ra of splendor in music: honor to all its members and the organist.
The Orchestra of Notre Dame has been assigned a part in all the programmes of our festivities. All who have listened to its classic music; its grand overtures, bear testimony to its efficiency.
The Notre Dame Cornet Band deserves great praise for its good music, thorough discipline and readiness. It has many rights to the gratitude of the inhabitants of Notre Dame. Now that the sun has driven away the cold blasts of winter, we hope to enjoy oftener the harmonious strains of the Band on the grounds of the College.
Finally, we will not ignore the Silver Jubilee
R* This Society ia composed of three branches—Dramatic, Histo-rie and Orpheouic, each branch has its own officers and exercisei.
Club, a self-organized club of young gentlemen who volunteer several times during the year to fill the tedious intervals between two great exhibitions by amusing performances of their own special make. We heard that they intended to appear on our stage towards the close of this month. This year is theirs; it is that of the J ubilee.
Not to encroach too much on the space of our little paper, we will end our review here, but we reserve ourselves to speak at length of our Clubs in a subsequent number.
We hope that some of our correspondents will kindly condescend to send us a good report on our Religious Societies.	•
We also beg to state that we will be glad to receive for publication all the reports of the Societies, Clubs, etc. . . At this particular time, Base-ball reports will not be neglected. Boating excursions, fishing, hunting, etc., will be duly chronicled.
The Editor of the.Yale College Courant has politely sent us a copy of Huxley’s Lecture on “The Physical Basis of Life.” Dr. Huxley belongs to a school which is not our school and advocates a doctrine which is not our doctrine. We believe in revelation; he adheres to naturalism. We hold that the difference between man and animal is one of kind; he contends that that difference is merely one of degree. His master in philosophy is David Hume; ours is St. Thomas Aquinas. We stand therefore' as distant from each other as the poles are. Mr. Huxley is certainly a very clever man, and an acute observer; but the facts he adduces in support of his pet theory, are not very conclusive. Is Prof. H. perfectly certain, for instance, that carbonic acid, water and ammonia are alone the constituents or basis of life ? If so let him bring together—“ under certain conditions” which we suppose he knows—-these three compounds, and let him cause this protoplasm to exhibit the phenomena of life. We honestly, believe that Prof. Huxley’s Lecture is dangerous to the young and the sciolists, inasmuch as it is calculated to delude them into the gravest errors, which Mr. H. himself certainly rejects but which his system implies.
The Bulletins will be sent to the parents early next week.
Vice President Schuyler Colfax reached . South Bend last Wednesday.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
255
On Caps and other Matters.—In the use of the antiquated muskets which emanated from the Museum during the pigeon mania, it was a noticeable matter of difficulty to find caps that would fit their enormous tubes. But when caps found, with what alacrity they were put on. That the same phenomenon happens with caps of a hyperbolical and figurative nature is not surprising, and that such a cap has lately been put on is evident from an ebullition of termagancy which appeared in your columns last week. We avail ourselves with joy of the proposition to raise a subscription for the supply of our oysterial demands, but let our kind friends pause and reflect before they enter upon any rash, though benevolent, designs. Let them be made aware that the possibilities of severe oysterities on our part are illimitable—that they may find themselves in the position of the Lowland farmer, who having engaged a Highlander to reap his wheat, and having imprudently set a whole cheese on the table for breakfast, was told, in reply to a mild suggestion as to two hours and a half being usually considered long enough for an ordinary meal, even on fast days, that “a cheese o’ this size is nae sae soon eaten as ye may think.”	S.
United Scientific Association.
The nineteenth regular meeting of the United Scientific Association was held March 30th. After the regular business of the Association had been transacted, Prof. A J. Stace delivered a very interesting as well as instructive lecture on “ Indeterminate and Diophantine Analysis.” The lecture, which was written in a most agreeable style, was delivered in the impressive manner so characteristic of the Professor, and many obscure points were elucidated in such a method as to make them easily comprehended by all.
This lecture was not an accidental one, but was one of a series of Professorial discourses delivered before the Scientific Associa-ion during the year by the heads of the three departments of Science in the University. J. A. Dickinsox, Rec kec.
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association,
The 25th regular meeting was held Tuesday evening. April 6th. So much time having been taken up in transecting official business, the debate had to be postponed until Saturday evening, April 10th. The 26th regular meeting came off at the appointed time, at which the question: Resolved, “That Washington did more for the pause of Civilization than Hannibal,” was warmly and ably discussed—Masters Vincent Hackman, Robert Staley, William B. Clarke, Philip Cochrane, and George McCartney upholding the affirmative; Masters James Dooley, John McHugh, F. Dwyer, and others, standing “shoulder to shoulder” in support of the negative. Master V. Hackman’s speech was characterized by clearness, and showed much historical research; Master Robert Staley’s was brief, but to the point, and contained a good deal of Young American enthusiasm. Master William B. Clarke assisted his side a good deal by citing facts from history. Master Philip Cochrane compared the deeds of both generals, and their
influence on posterity, in an elegant and spirited speech. Master George McCartney, in a nice little emphatic speech, substantiated what the other speakers on his side had said.
Master James Dooley tried artfully to overthrow the arguments of his opponents in a well prepared speeb, claiming truth and the verdict of history in favor of the negative. Master John McHugh came to his aid; but was not calm enough. Master F. Dwyer took a wide view, and a correct one, of the eras in which the two Generals lived—the situation, customs, and temperaments, of the people etc., producing facts showing (according to him) that Hannibal had done more for Civilization than Washington. Master M. Mahoney appeared to very good advantage as a volunteer in favor of the affirmative. The debate on the whole was pretty well prepared, and there was a good share of historical knowledge displayed on both sides—though some of the new de- t baters did not see their way clearly. The President summed up the arguments and gave his decision in favor ot the affirmative. He then gave them some hints how they might have treated their subject in another light, and concluded by exhorting the members to commit their speeches well to memory, as many of them already had done, by which means they would become forcible and eloquent debaters.
Rurvs J. McCarthy, Cor. Sec.
—
In a recent competition between the 40 member of the 3d Arithmetic Jr., Mr. C Burdell, of Chicago, came out first and best. The Example given was extremely difficult, embracing a variety of rules, such as govern the addition and multiplication of whole numbers and decimals. It took a whole hour to obtain the answer. Many other members of the Class approached very near the right sum. The Third Arithmetic Class Jr. is not surpassed in diligence and talent by any Class at Notre Dame.
JFaINT ^ARY’S ^cademy.
St. Mary’s, April 13, 1869.
jVIiisical Reunion.
Last evening was commenced a series of weekly entertainments to be given by the pupils in the Vocal and Instrumental Classes.
The execution in both branches was admirable, giving great satisfaction to those present, affording an agreeable treat to all lovers of sweet sounds, and proving the ability of the performers to get up, at the shortest notice, a truly classical musical entertainment.
We give below the programme of last evening’s performance. Next Monday other young ladies will be called on, as the time allotted (only one hour) is too short to permit a greater variety of pieces.
PART FIRST.
Chorus—Mendelssohn......1st Div. Singing Class
Piano Solo—Maurice Strakosch. . .Miss J. Hynds Aria—Mozart...................Miss A. Walker
256
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR
Piano Solo—J. Webbe....Miss C._ Davenport Ballad—Glaribell ......•...Miss K. Medill
Bolero—Maillard.............Miss M. Walton
PART SECOND.	.
Prayer—“Freischutz”... .1st Div. Singing Class Chorus—Curshman.........2d Div. Singing Class
Duet—Mendelssohn. ..Misses Davenport & Medill Ballad—Wallace.................Miss Litchey
Piano Solo—Ascher..............Miss C. Foote
Ballad—Zang.................Miss A. Mulhall
A-XTivals.
April 7th.—Aliss AL Murphy,	Ottawa, Illinois.
Table of Honor, Sr.
Misses M. Twoomey, L. McManman, M. Edwards, M. King, C. Heckman, N. Wilder, E. Livingston, R. Leicher, S. Beebe, F. Stevens, L. Chouteau.
Honorable Mention, Sr.
Graduating Glass.—Misses L. and L. Tong, K. Livingston, A. Ewing, E. Crouch, K. Cunnea.
First Senior Class.—Misses J. Hynds, A. Carmody, C. Cunnea, A. Radin, E. Kirwin, E. Ewing,'M. Carraher, A. Darcy, A. Mulhall, M. Walton, J. Dobson, M. Claffey, C. Davenport.
Second Class.—Misses M. Edwards, R. Rettig, C. Foote, E. Lindsay, N. Leoni, A. Carpenter, N. Sherburn, E. Carr, N. Thomson, C. Carpenter, T. Vanhorn, B. Gardiner, K. Young, H. Keil, E. Rogers, L. Leoni, A. Walker, M. Kirwin.
Third Class.—Misses Z. Shelby, M. Tuberty, E. Williams, E. Ruger, J. Hogue, M. Sherland, R. Joslin, M. Dillon, H. Gill, A. McKenney, L. Marshall.
First Preparatory.—Misses K. Robinson, S. O’Brien, M. Foote, E. Darst, E. Henry, J. Wade, F. Woolman, L. Martin.
Second Preparatory.—Misses L. Boss, L. Sproch-nle, J. Davis, M. Clune, N. Burridge, AL Minor, J. Denny, L. Blaizy, K. Moore, A. McLees, N. Greer.
Third Preparatory.—Misses C. Hoerber, A# Matthews, J. Davis, E. Whitfeild, E. Spillard, F. and R. Fox, R. Hoerber, M. Rolman.
Instrumental Music.
.First Class.—Misses C. Foote, K. Young C. Davenport. Second Div.—Misses A. Mulhall, M.
Shetland, K. Livingston, AI. Kirwin. Second Class.—Alisses L. and L. Tong, A. Ewing, N. Thomson, AI. Walton, R. Luiker. Second Div.—Alisses A. Darcy, K. Carpenter, E. Plamondon, L. English. Third Class.—Alisses AL Edwards, E. Ewing, S. O’Brien, R. Rettig, E. Ruger.- Second Div.—Aliss E. Livingston. Fourth Class.—Alisses H. Neil, T. Lafferty, A. Bryson, AI. Claffey. Fifth Class.—Alisses L. McAIanman, L. Thomson, T. Stevens, N. Wilder, A. Sturgis. Second Div.— Alisses L. Blaizy, AL Cochrane, J. Dobson. Sixth Class.—Alisses S. Beebe, I. Wilder. Second Div.— Aliss A. Clarke. Seventh Class.—Aliss AI. AIcLees. Eighth Class.—Misses M. Gildersleeve, N. Gross.
Harp.—Alisses C. Davenport, M. Shirland. Grgan.—Alisses A. Walker, A. Darcy. Guitar.—Alisses N. Tabor, L. English.
French.
First Class.—Misses L. and L. Tong, A. Carmody, K. Livingston, Z. Shelby. Second Class.— Misses A. Walker, N. Thomson, K. Young, A. Alulhall, AI. Carraher, C. Davenport. Second Division.—Alisses AI. Twoomey, K. Cunnea, R. Robinson, H. Neil. Third Class.—Alisses N. Leoni, A. Radin, AI. Chouteau, AL Cochrane. Fourth Class.—Alisses E. Rogers, R. Joslin, K. Zell, B. Gardiner.
German.
First Class.—Alisses E. Ruger, F. and R. Fox, A. Hoerber. Second Class.—E. Rogers. L. AIc-Manman, L. English.
Drawing.
Alisses AL Alexander, K. Carpenter, A. Ewing, AI. Carraher, K. Young, E. Carr, AL Lasson, E. Kirwan, J. Dobson, A. Cunnea, E. Henry, A. Radin, L. Chamberlain, C. Heckman.
Table of Honor, Jr.
Alisses J. Walton, L. Neil, L. and AL AIcNa-mara, A. Robson, AL Bader, L. James, B. Wade, AL.Rennolds, A. and A. Garrity, A. Byrne.
Honorable Mention.
Second Preparatory Class.—Alisses A. Clark, S. and AL Hoover, R. Leoni, L. Jones.
Third Preparatory Class.—Alisses J. Wilder, L. AIcFarlane, L. Thomson, AL Letourneau, AI. O’AIera, A. Aletzger.
First-Class Jr.—Alisses B. Wilson, R. Canoil, N. Streiby.	.
Second Class Jr.—Misses C. and N. Henry.
I