Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive qriasi eras morlturus.
Volume XII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 22, 1879.	Number 29.
Spring-Time.
Where are they hidden, all the vanished years ? Ah, who can say ?
Where is the laughter flown to, and the tears ? Perished ? Ah, nay ?
Beauty and strength are born of sun and showers, Shall these not surely spring again in flowers ?
Yet let them sleep, nor seek herein to wed
Effect to cause;
Eor nature’s subtlest influences spread By viewless laws.	-
This only seek, that each New Year may bring Out of new gifts a fairer, softer spring 1
—Exchange. * -----------------------------------'—
The Bollandists’ “Acta Sanctorum.”
Perhaps no other work compiled by man has had for its object so lofty a motive, has had to struggle against such determined resistance (and, I may even say, such bitter persecutions) in its endeavor to accomplish a noble and much needed undertaking, and has at the same time been prepared at so vast an amount of expense and labor and with such determined and persistent perseverance on the part of those who have become immortal through the medium of its pages, as the Bollandists’ Acta Sanctorum. Comprising, as it does, the history of almost two and a half centuries, the most eventful period in the history of the world, both in regard to politics and religion, how can the case be otherwise? To accomplish this undertaking every means that money could afford and indefatigable labor procure must be employed in order to render it a history not based upon private judgment and caprice, but one whose statements should be unquestionable. It had to deal with holy subjects, and its foundation must be truth. Hence, the deepest researches into all disputed and.doubt-ful questions were required, so that by the falsity of one fact doubt might not be thrown upon the truth of the whole. The object of this work of so vast an extent— namely, that of giving a full and complete biography of all those canonized in the Church—is one that should have won the support of all who hold dear their religion; and yet, as is ever the case in noble undertakings, enemies sprang up on every side, who, animated by the most bitter and uncalled for animosity, sought its destruction.
The canonized saints whose lives it gives formed frequently the grand central figures of the ages in which they lived. An account of their lives could not be complete without giving their effect upon the times, and this naturally involved a complete history of the manners, customs, morals and even of the political condition of the people.
Here we learn how the ridiculed and scoffed-at monk treasured in his obscurity the feeble spark of civilization that survived the downfall of Rome, preserved its .vitality through the ensuing ages of darkness and ignorance, and’ at length fanned it into that glorious flame of progress which has given us the enlightenment of to-day; we learn, how the disciples of that Church which is reviled by the infidel free-thinkers of to day as the impediment to, science, the foe to progress, the worshipper of images, the enslaver of reason and the stumbling-block to free institutions, received from the life of Christ the principles of religion, guarded their sacred trust against the infidel and pagan persecutions of almost two thousand years, and today extends the only hand that opposes the headlong rush of man into infidelity. The poor and laboring monk, who has consecrated his soul to the eternal adoration of Him who rules all things, and the powerful and ' widely-ruling monarch, who, possessed of a noble and Christian spirit, has done all in his power to further the cause of true religion,—neither is beyond the reach of the Bollandists’ pen. Wherever the seed of the Gospel has been sown, be it even at the farthest confines of the globe, there the Bollandist must penetrate and gather the materials for his mighty project. Geography must be summoned to his aid to settle the boundaries of episcopal sees and kingdoms. Topography, chronology and archaeology, all lend their aid to the common purpose. ' So it becomes not a mere biography, but a work requiring the most careful and correct scientific investigation.
This great work first found conception in the brain of Pdre Rosneyd; but he was unable even to begin the great project which he had formed. This was reserved for John Bolland, who commenced the work about the middle of the 17th century. It was to be written according to the months, commencing with January. When we consider that it averaged about two and a half years to each volume, and that it took, throughout, from three to thirteen volumes for each month, we can form some conception of the work that was to be performed. And we must remember that during all the time they were employed at this work that new saints were constantly being canonized, which required a review of the ground that had already been passed over, that none might be omitted. The work already comprises more than sixty volumes of large folio, and is steadily advancing, with one-sixth of the work yet to be’ performed. Who could look at so vast an undertaking without being disheartened at the sight! Who, but one’ almost inspired, would persevere through such bitter trials, such unexpected discouragements^ to a successful' end ? More than once were they obliged to suspend operations altogether, and once their museums and libraries, were destroyed and persecution forced them to-seek- refuge
454	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in a foreign land. Yet they hoped almost against hope; the consciousness of the rectitude and the greatness of the project which Heaven had consigned to their care buoyed them up to overcome all obstacles. Who can conceive of the good that such a work can accomplish! What greater monument could be reared to perpetuate the glory of those who devoted their lives to the service of their God, who have done so much to preserve Religion—the parent of true civilization, the essence of progress, the key to another and a better world—inviolate from the storms and persecutions that beset her pathway ?	R. R.
Bishop Maginn.
. The influence of the Irish priesthood is a problem or a puzzle to unbelievers and those who do not take the trouble of finding the reason. They forget that the priest is the first and the last to feel for the poor; that he enters into their sorrows as well as their joys; that he is always the friend of the lowly and the oppressed; that as the minister of Him “who humbled Himself” cannot domineer over his people, he is the friend of men in every virtuous act and their foe in what is sinful; he sighs for their freedom and their happiness, and if he cannot take part in the political conflict, he can, like another Moses, ascend the mount and raise his hand for their national as well as their spiritual salvation. The Catholic priest, besides, is honored for his virtue and talent, for his sanctity and learning, but in an especial manner because he is the anointed of God, the oracle from whose mouth the law of sacred knowledge flows to thousands—the envoy of the Most High. It is because the power of the priest of the Catholic Church far surpasses that of the angels in heaven, for to him alone it is given to raise man from his fallen state and teach him
“To walk as Adam walked with God.”
Paschal says that there are three classes of great men: 1st Warriors, who by feats of arms subdue thousands. 2d. Those who by the profundity of their learning subdue the minds of many to the dominions of intelligence. 3d. Those who by their wisdom, ardent piety and true religion subdue themselves, and teach others to submit to the yoke of Christ. Of the latter was one whose ministry was not one of mere words, for he knew that
“ He, who the sword of heaven would wear, Must be holy as he is severe.”
The subject of our sketch, Right Reverend Edward Maginn, Coadjutor Bishop of Derry, was born in the year 1802. He was the eighth son of Mr. Patrick Maginn, a respectable farmer, who lived in the parish of Fintona. Although his parents did not belong to what we might now-a-days call “the aristocracy,” nevertheless he could number, on either side, men—priests and teachers—distinguished both for their learning and sanctity. The family bearing the name of Maginn was looked upon, in that part of the country, as “Levitical.” His grand-uncle was for fifty-three years parish priest of Monaghan; his uncle was forty years pastor of Fahan and Desertegny, and later on Archdeacon of Derry. Another uncle of his, a priest, who at an early age took the degree of D. D. in the Sorbonne, died in France. Nor were vocations among his maternal relatives less frequent. Suflice it to mention here his uncle, the parish priest of Dromore, the Rev. P. Slevin, and Doctor N. Slevin, one of the $rgt and, most
eminent professors of Maynooth College. Such was the blood that blended in the magnanimous heart of the future Bishop of Derry, and from the tone of his writings we may easily infer what an influence the example of his illustrious ancestors had in forming his character. In a letter to Lord Stanley in the second last year of his life, in vindication of the confessional, he speaks of their fidelity: “ Who, my Lord,” he says—speaking of the unfortunate Stewarts—“was among the first to welcome the royal refugee (Charles II) to the shores of France ?—An Irish friar, my own namesake,* afterwards chaplain to the Queen’s mother, Henrietta. The hard earnings of a long life, which he had kept by him for the purpose of educating for the holy ministry his proscribed race at home, on bended knees with the generous devotion of an Irish heart, he poured into the lap of poor exiled royalty..... The same was afterwards the founder of the Irish College of the Lombards, which supplied Ireland for centuries with priests and martyrs, who kept the Faith, and—mark you, my Lord—loyalty alive in spite of the united efforts of the powers of darkness,” etc.
While yet a child, our subject went to live with his grand-uncle, the parish priest of Monaghan, whom one of his contemporaries calls a gentleman the most accomplished and learned—a priest the most pious and zealous of his time. Here it was that the future Bishop and father of his people imbibed the germ of those virtues which shone so resplendently in after-life, manifesting themselves in'a heroic degree in works of charity and mercy to the poor. After seven or eight years spent here, he returned home and placed himself under the tuition of a graduate of the University of Paris. Fortunate was he, indeed, to meet such a teacher, for who would dream of finding in a thatched cabin in Innishowen a man who had honorably borne many a prize in one of the foremost universities of Europe? For ten long years did Mr. Thomas Colgan labor assiduously in the mine of the ancients and fathoming the depths of science until his eye grew wild and his memory clouded and confused. Subject to occasional fits of insanity, he was deemed unfit for Holy Orders, and, choosing an occupation not less meritorious, he became a classical teacher in his native regions, and, like another Finton, fitted many a youth for the Sacred Ministry. In this lowly seminary did young Maginn remain until about his eighteenth year, when he left Ireland and entered the Irish College at Paris. An ordinary youth would be awed at the change from that stormy region where the broad Atlantic lashes her waves beneath the hollow cliffs—where no other sound is heard beyond the foaming of these mighty waters, save the din of the seabird now and then interrupted by the booming of the minute-gun—to the noise and bustle of Parisian life; but it could produce no such effect in one whose beat t and soul was intent upon the means of fulfilling his vocation. During his stay in Paris we know comparatively little of him except what we clip from the letters of his superiors. “His conduct,’’ says Doctor Ryan, “has been most exemplary and his talents conspicuous.” With him there was no such word as “impossible.” The clearness of his perception enabled him to master his usual theological treatises with the utmost facility, nor would he rest there. Even in classics and history his curiosity would lead him far beyond the prescribed range of acquirements.
* A relative of his own, which modesty forbids him saying,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
455
Seven years of assiduous application to his studies began to tell on the young levite, yet he received successively in 1823, 24, 25, tonsure and minor orders from the hands of the Archbishop of .Paris, Monseigneur de Quelen, but the last year his illness prevented him from being raised to the dignity of the priesthood. He was obliged on that account to •
“ Revisit once again his native green, Where infant innocence endeared each scene; Once more recall those sweet and blissful hours, When with his playmates twining sylvan bowers.” Towards the end of the same year he was ordained, and need we wonder that Father Edward soon became a universal favorite?
The first misssion to which our young priest was appointed was the curacy of Moyville on the Lough Foyle side of Innisho wen. Here lay the scene of his labors, among the people whom he loved. His lot was now cast on a tract of country at once the most historic in that Old Land. The facility with which this part of the country could be occupied and provisions obtained by sea made it a chosen spot throughout all the religious wars in Ireland. The several castles of Innishowen were, for twenty years, of Elizabeth’s reign, vital points of attack. Here the Earls of Tyrone and Tyrconnell rallied their gallant little bands. Here, among the rocks, the cannon of the Armada boomed forth, resounding in the hol-how caves until nothing was left to the veteran Tyrone but to submit ingloriously or to fly. Here it was that Sir Cahir O’Doherty, in the reign of King James I, rallied his clans and kinsmen to resist the confiscation of that fair province (A. D. 1608). Another incident in connection with the history of the place is the martyrdom of a former Catholic Dean of Derry. This holy man was dragged from his mountain cavern, in which like the owl he passed his day, being forbidden to commune with his beloved flock, and came forth by night to encourage this persecuted people, to instruct the living, to console the dying and to strengthen them in their passage to eternity. Such was the place on which was cast the lot of our young missionary, glowing with the enthusiasm of youth, a heart burning with patriotism, an ardent love of the peasantry among whom his lot was cast; of simple habits, well versed in the tradition of the soil; partial to the amusements of his flock; and finally, a priest in every sense of the word, who—partook of the affection no less than the joys of his people.
At the comparatively early age of twenty-seven,—the eventful year in which the "Emancipation Act” became the law of the land,—we find him placed as pastor over a flock numbering 10,000 souls. Bunerana, a little watering place, was chosen as his future abode, while his charge extended over a tract famed in the annals of Ulster. From the time of the Reformation no diocese suffered more than that of Derry. Successive Bishops and abbots were put to death as fast as they were discovered; others fled into exile, and there died. The prior of Coleraine in Cromwell’s time was thrown into the Bann and stoned to death by the Puritan soldiers. A Bishop who returned at the peril of his life, during the reign of Queen Anne, was hired as a common shepherd, thus renewing in his own person the experience of St. Patrick, who from an enslaved shepherd-boy became a pastor of souls, and Apostle, of the nation.
Hitherto little was known of our young priest beyond
the flock that he tended with so much care. Zeal is a fire that cannot be long pent up, for it knows no bound, and when it comes in contact with genius it knows no restraint. These were the qualities which brought Father Maginn before the public. His unbounded zeal for the glory of God, his sympathy for the poor, his love, devotion and attachment to the Holy See, linked with his patriotism, governed by such wisdom, judgment and discretion, soon made him the champion of his people. Until 1845 he was parish priest of Bunerana, and during that time he took part in all the questions of the day in which the interest of his beloved flock were involved. While yet a curate, he took a leading part in a religious discussion in which he exhibited much erudition and judgment. During his whole life he was known as a thorough nationalist, yet prudently keeping within bounds and never exposing himself, although this did not save him from the lash of calumniators. He opposed secret or agrarian societies. In the establishment of national schools he took a prominent part, and with some success. The establishment of Model Schools, or Queen’s Colleges, he opposed with all his might. To the tithe question he gave much attention. The establishment of workhouses was to him a real eye-sore, for he foresaw that more expenses would be incurred in he maintenance of such institutions than would be given towards the support of the indigent. Besides, the patriot Bishop could well remember when the honest beggar was welcome to every kitchen corner and every peasant’s table; when destitution, though never accounted a crime, was never confessed until the last resources of long patient penury had failed; when, if an honest man was driven to beg, he crept out in the grey of the evening and stood with averted face in the shadow of some house or streetcorner, silently pleading for the morsel of food he could no longer earn. He labored to heal the wounds inflicted by years of persecution of the laws and discipline of the Catholic Church, and his magnanimous heart was absorbed, after the God that he loved, in the one thought of seeing his country free,—free, but by the weapons of O’Connell, “peace, law and order.”	.
In 1845 he was unanimously elected as Coadjutor Bishop of Derry, and, according to the Roman usage, his name, dignissimus, with two others, was sent to be submitted to the Holy Father, and in 1846 he was solemnly consecrated. Never did anyone keep more faithfully the promise made, according to custom, at consecration. The Roman Ritual prescribes a formula for the Consecration of a Bishop: “ Will you be affable and merciful to the poor, to strangers, and to all indigent persons, on account of the Name of the Lord?” nor did anyone ever answer in the affirmative with more sincerity than Dr. Maginn. To him indeed the question was only a matter of form, for his whole life was spent in ministering to the wants and fighting the battles of the poor of Jesus Christ. “Believing,” he says himself, “ the poor to be the treasures of Christ’s Church, I must have proved false to my vocation, had I stood on the side of the powerful against the weak, or of the oppressor against the oppressed. The rich seldom want advocates; the poor often. My sympathies have been, I own, always with the poor and lowly. In this I have had a bright example in His conduct who refused to go to the ruler’s daughter, and went with all alacrity to the centurion’s servant. I am happy to be able to record that my defence of the supposed rights of the poor has not hithertq lost me a friend nor made me an enemy,”	.	.
456	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The relation which Dr. Maginn had towards his beloved flock may be easier conjectured than described, for he performed on every occasion the office of a father towards them. In his writings, therefore, we have to seek what would be interesting to us. His writings are indeed few, but if we consider the labors attached to the ministry in Ireland at that time, we shall not be surprised. Quintilian says that one man merited considerable praise in just a few productions, and so could one essay bring Macaulay before the public.
In the many letters on the topics of the day which Dr. Maginn has written—letters, whether addressing a Cardinal Fransoni or Lord Stanley; whether writing on a subject of local interest to a Poor Law Guardian, or arraigning a Lord Lieutenant for national offences, he is always in earnest. During the short term of his episcopate he was much engaged in watching the manoeuvres of the British Government, and here, in fact, we must admire a little band of Irish Bishops checkmating the wiliest plans of British diplomacy. These were, in the natural order, humble, sons of peasants, without any other wealth than the free-will offerings of their flocks; they were theologically educated, it is true, but untrained in those courtly arts which are often favorable even to a good cause. And these men had to oppose such as the Russells, the Temples, the Elliots, etc.,—men to whom lessons of diplomacy had been taught from earliest youth, men who could speak with all the authority of the greatest of modern empires, men who had grown grey in the management of public affairs.
In opposing any encroachments on the rights and liberties of the people,
“ To vindicate her doctrine, and proclaim Her tenets pure, unvarying by the same, Based on truth’s adamantine rock sublime, Through centuries of innovating tim°,” he was indefatigable.
The Tract and Bible Societies established for the purpose of undermining and destroying the Faith, which centuries of fire and sword were unable to accomplish, were met by Dr. Maginn, while yet curate of Moville. A decree of the Bishops forbade any of the Catholic priests to enter into public discussion with those vaunted propagandists who went around, taking advantage of their silence, gloating in their triumph. These
“ . . . Self-dubbed doctors of divinity, Without orders, mission or humility,”
very soon “put a foot in it” A circumstance occurred which caused them to issue a formal challenge, leading to a discussion which lasted for twelve days. In this Father Maginn—then only about twenty-seven years of age—attracted that tention of the public. As a preacher, Dr. Maginn was one that knew well what was his duty and he possessed all the qualities of a preacher. He delivered a course of sermons, which has not reached us. His appearance was so irresistibly prepossessing that he would secure your attention before he uttered a word. His striking mien, his graceful manner and mellow tones insensibly captivated the heart. His manner was so earnest and impressive that his most elaborate periods seemed but the spontaneous effusions of a moment—the warm overflowings of the heart—rather than a well-prepared production. “Words that breathe and thoughts that burn” were not mere ornaments with him. He seemed to know that his business as a clergyman was to persuade rather than |o ponvince, and he did pot, therefore, waste his time in
proving what needed no proof, namely, that charity, virtue, religion and truth are good, and that the contrary is bad, but he labored to make others feel those solemn truths with the same intensity as himself. For the education of his people he labored assiduously. The establishment of the work-houses occupied much of his attention, also the tithes, but to the Repeal movement he was no small acquisition. “If patriotism be a crime,” he says “I plead guilty to that soft charge.” He says that Ireland is our second mother; her honor, her glory, her independence should, after God and His holy Faith, enlist all our sympathies, and excite our warmest affections. Well did he know that it ill became him as the minister of Him who says “ My Kingdom is not of this world,” to mix in politics; yet such was the anomalous condition of nearly three millions of people—the victims of misrule—conceived in bigotry and still fostered by the most bitter sectarian prejudices, that, as he says himself, he could not refrain from using means, human and divine, to ameliorate their condition, and make them free and happy in the land that God gave them. “With these convictions,” he says, “we will as subjects bear strict allegiance to our gracious sovereign in civil matters; as Catholic Christians, undeviating attachment and submission in faith and morals to the centre of Catholic unity—His Holiness the Pope; as Irishmen, undying devotion to the rights and interests of the Irish people. . . .” In the words of an immortal Irish Prelate, he continues: “ Like the Levites of old retiring from their long captivity, we will employ one hand to defend them against the aggressions of their implacable enemies, and with the other we will cleanse our holy places, rebuild our sanctuaries, make new vessels for the sacrifice, and worship with them at our half-raised altars, ready to retire altogether within the chancel and sanctuary when our country is a nation, and our countrymen prosperous and free.”
Through all his writings a spirit of respect and submission to the temporal power pervades; and he always boasts of the fidelity of the Catholic priesthood to the members of royalty, especially in the moment of misfortune. At home and abroad he finds examples. An Irish priest, he says, accompanied the unfortunate Louis to the scaffold; an Irish priest, and a namesake of his own, carried the consolations of our holy religion to the unhappy Marie Antoinette. And even at home, he says that we lost by fidelity to the unfaithful Stuarts everything but our Faith; for, when, an Irish Bishop, Ever McMahon, of Clogher, was fighting for Charles I, at that moment the same Charles was signing the Scotch Covenant to extirpate the Catholic name.
The term of Dr. Maginn's episcopate was brief as it was brilliant. Three years after his consecration he sank under the weight which the mitre brought upon his brow. Up to his latest moment he was occupied in ministering to his beloved fl >ck. Eight days before his demise, he returned from a visitation of his diocese after administering the Sacrament of Confirmation to over six thousand children, and “ this is a satisfaction,” he says, “ even should this winter close their or our earthly career.” Strange and prophetic words indeed, for while the storms of winter yet raged along the wild northern coast, his body had been consigned to the grave to mingle with that native soil which he loved so well, and his pure soul passed to meet his divine Master, for whom he lived and died.
* Thus did Ireland lose on the 17th of January, 1849, at the early age of fifty-three, one whom
“ Virtue alon e can eternize his name, •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	457
Can make it soar with ceaseless flight on high; Can build the deathless fabric of his name, And rear his bright memorial to the sky.”
As space does not permit that we give any quotations or extracts, we would gladly refer our readers to his life, written by Hon. T. D. McGee. The summing up of the discussion—his letters and resolutions on the various topics of the day—those on tenant right, the education question; his letter to under Secretary Reddington in defence of his own character and his pastoral on the occasion of the exile of Pope Pius IX are productions that should of themselves immortalize his name. Truly might the poet say :
“ Thou art not poor, loved island of our sires, Rich in thy children we behold thee stand; Hadst thou but borne a Doyle and a Maginn The world would deem thee rich, mine honored land.”
J. P. M.
The Turkey.
On all occasions of great festivity and rejoicing, such as Christmas, Easter, Thanksgiving, and many other feast-days, it is customary to see the dining-tables heavily laden with choice edibles, foremost among which are turkeys. Everybody knows this, and appreciates it too; but what I was going to say is that as everybody is not so well acquainted with the manners and habits of this favorite fowl, a few words on the subject might not be uninteresting. Should a student have some leisure moments and wish to get into mischief, he might do worse than take a stroll down to the farm-yards a day or so previous to the next turkey-dinner on a festival day, and try some experiments that I will tell him in the course of my remarks.
The real home of the turkey is North America, Canada especially. It has also been found along the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. In their wild state, turkeys are as haughty, proud and cowardly as when in the poultry yard. The large poultry-yards of “ well-to-do ” farmers are generally fenced in by open slatted paling fences, several—perhaps eighteen or twenty—feet high, planted with and surrounded by large trees and bushes. In the middle of the yard is an immense pond, in which the ducks, geese and swans are continually sailing and diving, and enjoying the warm sunshine; about the pond are the hens, large and small, busy picking up the corn, wheat, etc., scattered around; rabbits, with their young ones, are nibbling away at choice blades of grass; variegated pheasants, pigeons and turtle-doves are hopping from branch to branch; and a blue-jay flies off with a piece of cheese stolen from the cat. Outside the poultry yard, lambs, kids and sheep follow their favorite, the stable and herds-boy; the dairy-maid Is yonder milking the beautiful fat cows, the large mastiff crunching a huge bone at her side; the hogs are scattered around, tumbling the bedding-stuff from the stables, and grunting and squealing as the stronger ones jostle and bite the weaker. But what strange-looking fowl is that which we see parading up and down so majestically? Is it, perhaps, a peacock? No. The peacock is seated in yonder corner, sunning his hundred-eyed tail. It is a turkey. He looks around disdainfully on the motley groups of hens, which he considers as a set of mean, despicable beings. He does not stoop to eat of the food placed before him. His food consists of corn, vetches, bread, fresh lettuce, potatoes that have previously been cooked and finely beaten; apples, pears, peaches,
etc., that are fresh from the trees, are placed before his royal highness, but he scornfully disdains all these. A little starveling mouse sneaks up and snatches away a few grains of corn and bread, which she divides among her poor hungry family. On a sudden the little cap on the gobbler’s head raises itself, the “ Adam’s Apple ” falls quickly, tail and wings expand to their full width, the nose protuberates more and more, turning at the same time into a deep red color, the turkey g jggles, utters a piercing cry, and finally makes ready for an attack. Who or what has excited him? We shall presently see. The turkey, like the bovine family, becomes exasperated at the sight of scarlet red, and the turkey’s master happens to make his appearance in a scarlet vest. I once witnessed an instance in which a cow became so maddened at the sight of a scarlet dress that considerable force, and moral suasion from the head of a cane, had to be employed to prevent a child from being horned to death by the infuriated animal. If a person hold up before the eyes of a turkey a red handkerchief, he should be on his guard against the reception of “beauty spots” on his face from the bill, wings and claws of the furious biped. But if he has the good fortune to have a piece of chalk about him he may now turn it to advantage in taming the infuriated fowl. This can be done by stepping behind him, seizing him by the upper part of the neck with the left hand, and pressing his bill flat on the earth, while with the right hand a heavy chalk line is drawn on the ground to a distance of a few -feet, perhaps six or eight, and in a direct line from the turkey’s nose. He will continue to lie there, staring at the line, motionless, until taken up, and in the mean time the little tuft or cap on his forehead has shrunk to its former size, the Adam’s Apple has collapsed, and the nose regained its normal size and color. When removed, he will rise gently, pace away in his usual measured, majestic way, and even take a bite of the food which he a short time ago so disdainfully rejected. Ferocious and haughty as he was ten minutes before, he will now suffer himself to be driven off into a remote corner of the yard by a cockerel, who had the misfortune to be jostled by him The turkey in general is very cowardly; on perceiving a foumart he will make off as fast as his heels can carry him, and will stoop into the high grass or into a bush or thicket at the sound uttered by even a very small owl, perhaps not one-tenth of his size.
Such is the tame turkey as seen in domestic life; we will now take a view of him in his wild state. The wild turkey roams from one oak forest and walnut grove to the other, till the winter season overtakes him. He then selects a good strong branch, which he chooses for his winter quarters. A sort of drowsiness overpowers him, and he throws back his head into his thick feathers, which afford him considerable warmth. During the autumn he has done nothing but stuff his stomach with acorns and walnuts. These make him so fat that if shot down from a high tree he will burst asunder on striking the ground. Possessing > an over amount of nutriment in his body, from his autumn gorging, the wild turkey requires but very little food during the winter season. At intervals, however, he descends from the tree-top and picks up a few acorns.
Quite a number of the turkey family live thus together in a single dense forest. On the approach of spring a hen makes the announcement with a peculiar cry, which is taken up by her next neighbor, then passed to the next, and in a few hours the whole colony are cooing. The gob
458
THE NOTES DAME SCHOLASTIC.
biers descend from their tree-tops, and the hens creep out •from their nests. The former strut about as proudly as an overdressed young fop on a promenade; and the hens begin to explore the country in search of a safe place for their nests. The hen always hides her eggs from the gobbler. The plumage of the wild turkey is of a brilliant metallic color. In the spring season the turkey commences his tours up and down the country, picking off choice berries from currant, raspberry and other fruit-bearing bushes. A good-sized fat turkey will weigh as much as fifty pounds.
Before closing this rather lenghty description, I should not pass over the young ones. The young turkeys are very tender. If they have the misfortune to be struck by a draft of cold air, or the sun shine upon their delicate head, or a nettle pierce their tender feet, or they are caught suddenly in a rain-shower, or “catch cold,” they must immediately be wrapped up in flannel that has previously been well soaked in strong brandy; wine is poured into the water they drink; panado, frumenty and groats, eggs that have been cooked and chopped finely, and manchets, are placed before them. If the turkey hen espy a hawk, she immediately assembles her young ones, conceals them beneath her wings, or sets them under a thick bush. If she perceive a foumart in the distance she immediately leaves her nest and contrives to allure the noxious animal away from her repository of eggs. The wild turkey is very thievish, knows how to unfasten ears of corn, understands the art of “hooking” fruit from the trees, and not seldom will venture to enter a hen coop, eat away all the corn or bread, and then walk off contentedly. If it happens that the turkey is separated from his companions by a river or creek, he will try to fly over to them, but, being so very fat and heavy, he often falls into the water, and seldom succeeds in reaching the opposite shore. Notwithstanding all his efforts, he falls back into the water, and is swept along by the current. But if, once perhaps in ten times, he succeeds in escaping Neptune’s clutches and reaching terra firma, he again struts about proudly and majestically.	P. F. S.
Scientific Notes.
—Mr. Rassam has discovered a cylinder of Sennacherib dated B. C. 700. It will probably help to decide the exact year of Sennacherib’s expedition against Hezekiah.
—Some experiments at Newcastle-on-Tyne appear to be quite conclusive that explosions may be, and have been, caused in collieries by the ignition of the fine particles of floating coal-dust.
—Attention is called by Mr. W. Kent, in an article on the “ Strength of Materials,” in Van Nostrand's Magazine, to the important practical fact that the process of compressing metal while in the liquid condition has been found to cause a great increase of strength, and is likely to be extensively adopted in the manufacture of steel. The process • of cold-rolling has been found to increase the strength of bar iron in some cases as much as 100 per cent.
—Mr. J. E. Todd has started the inquiry, Has Lake Winnipeg discharged through the Minnesota within the last two hundred years? The question seemed to have been mainly suggested to him by an account of M. Ie Baron de la Honton’s voyage up the “LongRiver” in 1689; but, although the baron was born in Gascony, and had written his “Nouveaux Voyages” under peculiar circumstances, and in a style not quite the kind to be set down for an example, geologists and others may find an investigation of the problem presented and other considerations involved neither an uninteresting-nor an unprofitable study, whether Mr. Todd’s query will receive an affirmative or negative answer.
—The deepest mine in the world now worked is said to be the Adalbert lead and silver mine in Austria, which is 3,280 feet deep. The next is the Viviers coal mine in Belgium, 2,847 feet. It was sunk to the depth of 3,586, but no coal having been found, the working is at the former level. The deepest coal mines in England are the Dunkirk colliery in Lancashire, 2,824 feet, and the Rosebridge in the same locality, 2,458. The deepest mine in this country is the Yellow Jacket of the Comstock lode. It is now 2,500 feet below the surface at the mouth of the main shaft, and 2,933 feet below the Qould & Curry croppings. The Savage stands second on the list, and the Imperial the third, both being nearly as deep'as the Yellow Jacket.
—In examining the papers of their deceased father, J. N. Gaunal, Messrs. A. and F. Gaunal found one which purported to be a copy of a memoir presented by him to the Paris Academy of Sciences in 1828, and which gave an account of a process for the artificial production of diamonds. The Academy simply buried the communication in its archives, and never mentioned it in any way. The substance of this document is now published in " Le Monde de Science de 1’Industrie,” from which we take the following particulars: Equal weights of carbon sulphide and of phosphorus, both as pure as possible, are put in a flask, and a little water added, which floats on the top and prevents the sulphide from turning to vapor and from taking fire. The whole having been placed in some situation where it will not be disturbed, the sulphur of the sulphide combines with the phosphorus and releases the carbon, which falls to the bottom and assumes a crystalline form. This result takes place slowly, and not till after the lapse of six months was M. Gaunal able to obtain diamonds the size of a grain of millet-seed. As for the purity of these small diamonds it was proved by the strictest tests, and that not only by M. Gaunal but also by others. The experiment was repeated several times in the course of many years by M. Gaunal, and always with the same result. The artificial diamonds consist of pure carbon in dodecahedral crystals, and they scratch steel like the natural diamond.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mr. Browning has in the press a collection of short poems under the title of “ Dramatic Idylls.”
—Dr. Hans von Bulow is writing recitatives for Berlioz’s opera, “ Beatrix and Benedict,” for the Hanover Opera-House next season.,
—A translation of Longfellow’s “ Song of Hiawatha” has been published at Moscow for the benefit of soldiers disabled in the recent war.
—J. Payne Collier thinks he has found an early tragedy of Shakspeare, which was printed anonymously in 1599. Its title is “A Warning to Fair Women.”
—Messrs. O. Ditson & Co., the music publishers, have presented Messrs. Gilbert & Sullivan with a draft for $500 for their share of the profits on “ Pinafore.”
—Mr. Anthony Trollope has consented to contribute a study of Thackeray to the “Men of Letters” series which Mr. John Morley is editing for Messrs. Macmillan.
—The tercentenary of the introduction of printing into Warsaw is to be celebrated this year by an exhibition of all the remarkable books printed in the Polish Capital during the last 300 years.
—The smallest pianist in the world, Signor Luigi Gustavo Fazio di Plinto da Campo Basso, is now in Rome. He is only two feet high—about as long as his name. He is said to be extremely clever.
—The Leipsic musical papers give the highest praise to Carl Reinecke’s symphony No. 1 in A major, performed at the seventeenth Gewandhaus concert. Moritz Vogel is particularly enthusiastic on the subject of its beauty and scholarship.
—There has been no lack of literary activity among the Welsh lately. Not to mention the “.Welsh Encyclopedia,” two editions of the Welsh national poet, Goronwy Owain, have appeared during the past year. But the poems of lolo Goch remain still to be edited.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
459
—The Spectator, of London, in its review of “ A Masque of Poets,’’ treats the book as composed entirely of contributions from American writers, and offers some unfavorable remarks on the American genius for poetry as shown in it; whereas it happens that one-fourth of the poems are from English writers.
_ —Hungary is a queer country in its literature. Between the years 1481 and 1711,1,793 different works are now known to have been published. Within the past century the number of works on topics of natural philosophy alone has been no fewer than 8,912, while of papers and pamphlets there have been 2,834 in addition in the same department of literature.	’
—In a chapel of the parish church of Ecouche (Orne) there has been discovered, hidden under a coating of stone-color paint, a picture which turns out to be, undoubtedly, the “Dream of the Infant Jesus,” by Mignard, which has been missing since the Revolution. It is one of the greatest works of that master, and represents our Lady in the centre, the Divine Child on her lap. On the right and left are St. John the Baptist and St. Joseph.
—M. Silvestre de Sacy is dead. He was born in 1804, and was the son of the celebrated Orientalist. In 1836 he was appointed Keeper of the Mazarin Library; in 1854 he was elected a member of the French Academy. M. de Sacy is known as a writer in the Journal des Debats. He has published an edition of the translation of the De Imitations Christi, by Michel de Marillac; an edition of the Introduction to the Devout Life, by St. Francis de Sales; and an edition of Fenelon’s Spiritual Letters.
—As is well known, the late Mr. George Brinley, of Hartford, a native of Worcester, and a member of the American Antiquarian Society of that city, possessed a very rare and valuable library. It was his intention to have made liberal donations from it to literary societies, and a draft of a will for that purpose had been prepared, but was not executed at the time of his death. His heirs, however, propose to carry out his wishes, and the American . Antiquarian Society is to receive a credit of $5,000 at the auction sale of the library, and will be allowed to buy such volumes as may be desired to that amount without charge. It is arranged that one-half the amount is to be selected at the first sale, which includes about 3,000 titles, and the remainder at a subsequent sale. It is understood that the Watkinson Library at Hartford and the Yale College Library are beneficiaries in the same manner, the whole sum thus bestowed to various libraries aggregating $25,000.— Boston Journal.
—Messrs. Kegan, Paul & Co. propose to publish as a curiosity of literature an epigram, recently written by Mr. Charles Kent, and already translated into upwards of forty languages by some of the most illustrious scholars in Christendom. The original words are entitled, “On the Accession of Leo XIII: an Epigram after 8. Malachy," especial reference being made therein to the reputed prophecies first laid before the world three centuries ago in Wion’s Ligum Vita. The collection, which will be entitled Corona Catholica, includes more than seventy versions, representing upwards of forty languages. Conspicuous among the contributions to the volume are versions in Greek, by Professor Paley, Persion by Professor Mir Aulad Ali, Zend bj' Professor Darmesteter, Mandshu by Professor Gabelentz, Assyrian by Professor Sayce, Icelandic by Professor Magnusson, Sanskrit by Professor Max Muller, Irish by Canon Bourke, and Basque by Prince Lucien Bonaparte. The work will be issued in the form of an elegant 4to volume.
—Canon Pieralisi, well known by his works on Urban VIII and Galileo, has published a facsimile of a famous memoir written by St. Francis of Sales.. When theological controversies on the respective authority of the Pope and the General Council, and again on that of the Pope regarding the power of the king, were floating all over France, and doing much harm to both the Church and State, St. Francis, then Bishop of Chamberry, was strongly urged by several high dignitaries of the Church to suggest the best means of silencing those injurious discussions. The above memoir is the Saint’s answer. Until now only an imperfect copy of it, preserved in the Bibliotheque Nationale, at Paris, was known. But Pieralisi discovered
the original among the treasures of the Barberini Library, in Rome, of which, we think, he is chief librarian. He has accompanied the memoir with a valuable commentary, and has, moreover, added an appendix containing three other letters of St. Francis. The little publication bears the title, “Rimedio alle dispute dei cattolici in Francia proposto nel 1612 da S. Fr. di Sales.”
—Mr. Smalley writes from London to the New York Tribune that the sale of Stanley’s “Through the Dark Continent” was extraordinary. “The book, it is true, is still in its first edition, but what an edition! It consisted of 6,000 copies. The whole of the 6,000 copies have been sold by the publishers, Messrs. Sampson, Low & Co., and a second edition of 1,000 is now being ‘subscribed.’ The book was issued at two guineas ($10), a price at which lew publishers would venture on printing 6,000 copies, or half that number. But Messrs. Sampson, Low & Co. showed both enterprise and good judgment in this case, as they did in Mr. Eugene Schuyler’s ‘ Turkestan ’; also a two-guinea book, and now in its fifth edition. I hear that they paid Mr. Stanley $30,000. The nearest approach I know of to that is the $25,000 which Messrs. Macmillan & Co. handed over to Sir Samuel Baker for bis ‘Ismailia,’ which proved, I fear, a less successful speculation. Sir Samael Baker’s popularity was then on the wane; Mr. Stanley’s was at its height when he came back from his last African journey, and for months he was one of the lions of London, the guest of the Geographical Society, and the hero of countless controversies.’’
Books and Periodicals.
—The April Catholic World contains some unpleasant reading for Mr. Clarence Cook, who recently undertook to enlighten the readers of the Atlantic Monthly on the new St. Patrick’s Cathedral of New York city. Mr. Cook was very vehement and, as it now turns out, unguarded in his expressions. He condemned the Cathedral and everybody and everything connected with it. He made loud complaint of the manner in which New York city had been “jockeyed out” of its finest piece of land at the bidding oi “a crafty and unscrupulous priest” (the late Archbishop Hughes), by the dreadfully wicked set of men then in office. There was much more of the same sort. Mr. John. R. G. Hassard corrected Mr. Cook, and his note was published in the March Atlantic. Mr. Cook confessed that he was utterly mistaken as regards the Cathedral; but in the course of his painful investigations as to the possible origin of the wholesale and utterly false charges he had made he lit upon the fact, that the ground of the New York Catholic Orphan Asylum, adjoining the Cathedral, had been given to the Catholics by the city for the nominal sum ot one dollar. Having apologized for the Cathedral, Air. Cook transferred all his original charges to the Orphan Asylum. This has roused the Catholic World, which, in the article “ Private Charities and Public Lands,” goes into the whole question of grants of this nature, and overwhelms poor Mr. Cook by showing that free donations of land tor charitable purposes are common enough in New York city and elsewhere'. It takes up the list, and, as an offset to the three grants to Catholics, shows sixteen to other distinct denominations, without counting grants for public charities at all. It promises in a future article to examine the donations in money by the State to the same institutions, whicn, it says, are in a similar proportion. Mr. Cook, though he has raised a hornet’s nest about his own ears, is to be thanked for having created public interest in a most important matter concerning the public at large.
—Book-keeping may be taught in a single lesson of three words—Never lend them.
—On a certain occasion Lord Alvanley half affronted Air. Greville, with whom he was dining. The dining-room had been newly and splendidly furnished, whereas the dinner was but an indifferent one. While some of the guests were flattering their host on his taste, magnificence, etc., “For my part,” said his lordship, “I would rather have had less gilding and more carving.”
460
ME NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC'
jilJIU
Notre Dame, March 33, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and.the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 JPer Annum, ^Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
- = < . Notre Dame, Indiana.
True Education Our Country’s Safeguard.
Mr. Bannon’s address on “ Education,” delivered at the St. Patrick’s Columbian Entertainment, contained so much that is plain, “ practical, and to the point,” as the South Bend. Register says, and on a subject that is every day more and more engaging the attention of thoughtful minds, that we cannot forbear making some record of it—at least by way of synopsis.
The cause of education, he said, is the noblest that can engage the mind of man—a work that finds its meet reward, notwithstanding the calumnies of enemies and the indifference of friends. Apart from other and higher considerations, the consciousness of a life devoted to elevating and ennobling the mind and heart of man is an immense reward in itself. It is a work far more important than that of the legislator and statesman: they can only make the laws, whereas the educator gives them life by inculcating the observance of them. Education is so far higher than statesmanship inasmuch as the statesman is formed by the educator, and the machinist is nobler than the machine. Education, properly so-called, is the fountain head and conservator of patriotism. Our forefathers gave us a noble republic, and it is the task of our educational institutions to cultivate those principles of justice and right that will prove the best conservator of the precious legacy. The speaker felt proud in saying that Notre Dame was true to her mission in these respects; but she needed no words of encomium from him: the broad culture, the high aims and noble purposes of thousands who had gone forth from her classic walls into the world’s broad battle-field, armed and and equipped with Heaven’s own armor, speak trumpet-tongued in her favor. All he could do was, on the part of his confreres of ’79, to offer heartfelt thanks and sincere wellwishes in return for the benefits here received. This was the humble tribute of grateful hearts, and he hoped the
Columbians of ’79, having done well their life work, would one day give a hail and greeting in the beautiful land of endless day. _
We of the 19th century, he said, plume ourselves on being in an age of progress, of enlightenment. Civilization and enlightenment have made great strides, but if we look carefully around us can we in reality boast of living up to the circumstances and times ? It is true, material progress is very great, but does civilization consist merely in this? Does perfection end with the gas-pushed car? or in the completion of the gigantic enterprise which girdles with iron bands the broad expanse of the American continent?. Does it consist in those gilded palaces, etc, which sleep upon the bosom of the deep, and which, by the motive power of steam, bid defiance to wind and wave? Is it comprised in the electric spark whose instantaneous flish spans the globe ? Is it contained in our present common school system, which considers material education alone a sovereign balm for all the evils that our time and country are-afflicted with ? No, gentlemen, this is not civilization—true civilization. It has a higher aim, a nobler end; it tends to the advancement and development of our higher powers and faculties, of the heart as well as the head, of our moral as well as our intellectual endowments, and not solely the corporeal and material portion of our being. This is the true definition, this is the correct view to take of education. If we consider carefully, weigh minutely the workings of our present system of common schools, we shall find that they are fast de-Christianizing modern society. They are doing just what Ex-Governor Seymour, of New York, once said: “ A good education makes a man, frequently, only more successful and accom-plished in his career of crime and wickedness.” In short, material education only makes our rogues and thieves more expert in their- rascalities. These schools, it is true, aim at the cultivation of the intellect, but they leave the will and heart a moral wilderness, overgrown with-rank and luxuriant weeds and noxious plants. Under the baneful influence of this educational system, children are growing up without respect for parents, without veneration for old age, without obedience to civil or ecclesiastical authority. Are not the greatest rascals in America the most highly educated ? We have only to look around us, and see how the human heart belches forth its moral corruption, poisoning domestic and social happiness. Go, visit our courts of justice, and see how men will perjure themselves; step into one of those ‘‘scalping dens,” usually denominated a saloon, or enter one of our prisons, and you will be convinced that we are a long way behind on the road that leads to our true end. You will then be convinced that it is not more education, but a better system of education, that we want. Therefore, as material progress does not imply moral progress, what is to be done to meet the moral want of our age ? We must have a mental and moral knowledge— which is a religious culture. Religion is to education what the soul is to the body, what justice, patriotism and liberty are to a government—its controlling, living and saving principle. Religion and education together bring civilization and prevent crime—form, in fact, the real foundation to our liberties. Are there any here inclined to doubt it?' The strength of a government like ours depends upon the character of her citizens. The basis of a republic is the spirit of her people. The Constitution may quiet the workings of that spirit, but it can neither create, nor, when lost, restore it. Good laws may tend to preserve it, but they are not always able to prevent its destruction.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	461
A republic may flourish, notwithstanding a defective constitution. It may survive the shock of bad measures, or pernicious policies; but it cannot outlive the demoralization of the people. It cannot outlast the loss of honesty in its citizens, rectitude in its judges, purity in its legislators. The first duty of those who would serve the republic is to preserve goodness in the people; and to make men good they must be Christians, they must be religious —the only true basis upon which republics can be placed. Let the framers of our laws write them with all the hu-man ingenuity imaginable, with the most ingenious system of check and counter-check; let them impose penalties, forfeitures, impeachments, for a transgression; in a word, let them do more and better, if possible, than the wise men who gave us our Constitution—but this alone cannot preserve the life of a republic. There is a part of ’ the government which must rest upon that over which human laws have no power—the conscience of those who compose it.
What guarantee can the Constitution afford against the :	perverse choice of majorities, the corruptness of legislators,
the inaction of judges ? And when these are found in combination, who shall save the State? When the citizen lives in continual distrust of those who govern; when offices shall be sought, not as an honorable distinction, but as means of individual gain; when parties shall be so complete that majorities will perpetuate themselves in power; when the government, in its blindness, shall forget that the existence of a republic is secured only by securing to each individual a field-of independent labor and existence, and that nothing is more hostile to it, than the abuse of vast capital in the hands of the few; when corporations shall by their wealth decide the fate of elections and dictate laws for the promotion of their own interests; when bribery shall successfully rule judge and jury and legislator—vain—vain, I say, will it be then to appeal to the Constitution. The Constitution will survive, but the republic will be in ruins.
St. Patrick’s Day.
It has always been customary at Notre Dame to celebrate in an appropriate manner each annual recurrence of the festival of Ireland’s patron Saint—St. Patrick. The 17th of March, 1879, was therefore, in accordance with this time-honored custom, celebrated here with that patriotic spirit demanded by the occasion. The Columbian Literary and Debating Club gave the Entertainment on Saturday evening. It was the “ Prodigal Law Student,” a drama in four acts, and one well worthy the occasion.
At 7 o’clock Washington Hall was well filled with students, members of the faculty, and invited guests. After the Band had played “St. Patrick’s Day,” the curtain rose and Mr. M. Bannon came forward and delivered the address of the evening, entitled “ Our Educatioal System.” He took a moral and intellectual view of the subject, and showed by incontrovertible proofs that education without religion is dead. It was a masterly effort, and was greeted with enthusiastic applause. Then followed the oration on “St. Patrick,” by the orator of the evening, Mr. S. T. Spalding. He took a synoptical retrospect of the life and labors of the great Saint, and showed that not only was it becoming for each and every son of Erin to celebrate the annual return of this festival, but that it was ^Iso a duty which they owed to their country and their
God. During the delivery of his oration, Mr. Spalding was frequently interrupted by bursts of applause, and the perfect thunder of applause which was given at its conclusion showed how well he had treated the subject. The next thing on the programme was the overture,“Die Felsen-muhle,” which was admirably executed by the University Quartette. Then came the grand feature of the evening, the drama entitled the “Prodigal Law-Student.” The principal parts were sustained by Messrs. G. Sugg, T. Simms, M. Burns, R. Mayer, A. Keenan, R. Keenan, B. Claggett, M. McEniry, G. Cochrane, J. Delaney and D. Donohue. Master Sugg as “ Frederick, the Law-Student,” entered well into the spirit of his part and most faithfully portrayed the character, first as the worthless spendthrift, and then as the repentant prodigal. Mr. T. Simms as “ Mr. Martin,” the Prodigal’s father, so perfectly and successfully performed the different and ever changing parts in his role,—first as the wealthy and happy father, unconscious of the excesses of his son; then as the penniless and broken-hearted old man, caused by his son’s prodigality ; and finally, as the old man once more made happy by the unexpected return of his son, who had become immensely wealthy,—that he won the applause.and admiration of the whole audience. Messrs. M. Burns as “ Alfred,” R. Mayer as “Angelo,” R. Claggett as “Mr. Richards,” M. McEniry, “Prof. Algood,” D. Donohue, “Cap. Henderson,” and J. English, “Admiral Ross,” acquitted themselves of their parts in a highly creditable manner.. Messrs. A. Keenan and J. Delaney, the former as “Nicodemus Geizhals,” “ who vos em pooty shmart mann,” and the latter as “Harry Johnson,” an English fop, kept the audience in a constant roar of laughter. J. Baker, “ Capt. Stonington ”; R. O’Brien, “ Gen. Watson ”; J. Brice, “ Foster Livingston ”; W. Connolly, “ Doctor Fuzby ”; R. Stewart, “Jake”; F. Wall, “Bob”; T. J. Byrne, “Sammes”; R. Stewart, “Mr. Ross”; D. Coddington, “Teddy”; C. Cones, “Mr. Sinclair”; E. Calkins, “ Henry Porter”; J. Arentz, “Corporal Jones”; and P. Vogel, “Henry Newmark” ; are to be complimented on the successful rendition of their respected parts.
After act second the Band played the “Irish Melodies,” a selection of the most popular Irish airs, arranged for the occasion by the talented and energetic leader of the Band, Rev. E. Lilly, C. S. C.
The closing remarks were made by Very Rev. President Corby, in which he congratulated the young gentlemen taking part in the entertainment on the success with which their efforts had met, and thanked them in the name of the audience for the pleasure afforded to all present.
Personal.
—Bro. Ildefonse has returned to Notre Dame from Lasalle, Ill.
—Mr. Patrick Guthrie, of Carroll, Iowa, spent a few days with us this last week.
—Mr. Delaney, of Green Bay, Wis., visited his son, who is attending school here, during the week past.,
—Prof. C. W. Boucher, of the Northern Indiana Normal School at Valparaiso, Ind., and lady were visiting Notre Dame last Saturday.
—Dr. J. J. Gordon, of Cairo, Ill., has our thanks for a fine box of cigars. With every puff of smoke we will wish him many and happy years,—in fact, happiness forever.
—Master Armin Hartrath and Aloysius Reinboldt, of the Minim Department, have each given five dollars to
1
462	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Very Rev. Father General for the new Chapel of the Sacred Heart.
—Mr. H. G. Wasika, of Valparaiso, Ind, paid us a visit on Saturday last. He reports Rev. Father O’Reilly and other old students of Notre Dame in Valparaiso as enjoying the best of health. May it ever be thus!
—Rev. P. J. Conway, of 58, is the worthy pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, Chicago, at which a grand celebration of St. Patrick’s Day occurs every year. The celebration this year was very grand and solemn, as we learn from the Chicago papers. Right Rev. Bishop Ireland, Coadjutor of the diocese of St. Paul, Minn., was the orator this year.
—Of J. D. O’Hara (Commercial), of ’72, the Chicago, Tribune says:—“Mr. J. D. O’Hara, who was to give an entertainment Tuesday evening next at the West End Opera House, has recived short notice to leave town, in order to meet a professional engagement. His tickets are still good for this entertainment, which will occur on his return to the city.”
—John D. McCormick, of ’74, has been renominated, without opposition, by the Democrats of Lancaster, Onio, for the office of Mayor. The Ohio Eagle says, “ Mayor McCormick has made an excellent officer, and will be elected back again without doubt.” Success to him! The people of Lancaster will show their good sense by re-electing him by an increased majority. They could not secure a belter man for the-office.
—The jury in the Calhoun case brought in a verdict of “Not guilty ” after being out fifteen minutes. There have been many comments made upon the able argument of Hon. John Gibbons for the defense, his speech being pronounced one of the most brilliant and powerful efiorts ever delivered in the Keokuk temple of justice. His manage-•ment of the case was an able one throughout.—Keokuk Constitution.
—There is a modest artist in this city who was famous in Europe before he came to this country. He made the first portrait ever painted of Pepe Pius IX, and was so successful that on six other occasions, he was summoned to put on canvas the features and form of him who was then head of the Catholic Church. He also had charge of the collection of old masters in the Vatican, and was permitted to retouch those that suffered from the ravages of time. In the course of his career he won a Bologna medal, a high honor for an artist in Italy. When Napoleon III purchased the famous Campana collection, this artist was appointed to classify and catalogue it, a task which he performed to the satisfaction of the Emperor and to his own credit. Then from across the ocean word reached Rome that an artist was wanted at Notre Dame, Ind., to decorate the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, founded by Father Sorin at that place, and that artist was recommended for the work, which he undertook. In three years he had finished his labors, and made of the walls and ceiling of the sacred edifice a monument to his own genius as enduring as the edifice itself. Then he moved to this city and opened a studio, but his modesty and his inability to speak any language but that oi sunny Italy kept him in the shade, and rival artists who feared his genius, which they were quick to recognize, seemed to conspire together to keep his fame from spreading. But after a while a picture of General Sheridan appeared on exhibition, such a picture,as gave to the beholder a true impression of that distinguished soldier. It was a vigorous, life-like picture, wormy of the subject and of the artist. Persons were anxious to know who the artist was, and were informed that it was Gregori, the same who had been famous in Rome, and Bologna, and Paris. Besides the Sheridan portrait, he has painted other pictures in this city, not ordinary pictures, for he is not an ordinary painter, but w-orks that bear the impress of his genius-His latest achievement should be seen and examined by all who can admire and appreciate a beautiful work of art.i There are two figures—pretty children, one about 11, the\ other about 3 years of age, evidently sisters, who seem, so life-like are they, as if they were about to step out from, the foliage that surrounds them. The likenesses are per-' feet, and there is an ease and naturalness about the figures, that are rarely seen in portraits. The flowers and leaves seem to have been planted there. The details of the pic
ture are minute and perfect. This beautiful work of art is the property of Mr. Gardner S. Chapin, of the firm of Chapin & Gore, and the children are Miss Carrie L. and Miss Katie Chapin, his daughters. The work will be on exhibition at O’Brien’s Wabash Avenue Gallery for a few days, and lovers of art will have an opportunity to study it. In any art collection it would be conspicuous and would attract attention.—Chicago Evening Journal.
Local Items.
—Cold mornings these. .
—Competitions next'week will be in the Commercial Course.	‘
i —At St. Mary’s, St. Patrick’s Day was celebrated with enthusiasm.
J —A fine bust of Mozart has been purchased for the St.
Cecilia room.	•
—The programmes of the Columbian Entertainment • iwere printed on green paper.
J —The Band played some fine Irish airs in front of the College on Monday morning last.
—The Columbians were greeted with a fine audience on the evening of their Entertainment.	'
—The address of Mr. M. W. Bannon at the St. t*atrick i celebration was worthy of great praise.	'
\ —It is said that Rev. C. Kelly had the finest badge around Notre Dame on St. Patrick’s Day.
—The Entertainment given by the Columbians in honor of their festival, St. Patrick’s Day, was a grand success.
—The Columbians have good reason to feel elate_d over the success their Entertainment met with the other evening.
—Rev. C. Kelly and others were the happy recipients of some beautiful shamrocks from the Emerald Isle on St. Patrick’s Day.
\ —Who will put up the next festooning in Washington Hall? The St. Cecilians have done it heretofore. Who will do it now ?
—Vespers to morrow are those of the 4lh Sunday of Lent, page 83 of the Vesperal. In the morning the Alissa Paroulorum will be sung.	.
—On next Tuesday evening the Columbians will celebrate the sixth anniversary of the founding of their Society by a soiree in Washington Hall.	.
—There are some good hand-ball players amongst the Juniors. Would it not be good if their alley Were fixed somewhat, as it badly needs it at present ?	•
—The members of the Elocution Class will give a literary Entertainment, consisting of orations, essays,- declamations, etc., on Thursday evening next, in Phelan Hall.
J —Of course the boys had rec. on St. Patrick’s Day, and rfrom all appearance enjoyed themselves well. The little altar in St. Patrick’s dormitory in the College was very tastily decorated. '
—Those‘who put away their overcoats during the few fine days we had last week, imagining that the winter was gone, were rather surprised at the snow-storm we had a day or two afterwards.
—The second competition for the gold medal for Christian doctrine took place last; Sunday, with the following results: K. L. Scanlan first, with J. Brady, E. Murphy and A. F. Zahm second.
—Very Rev. Father General returns thanks to Masters A. Rheinboldt, of Cincinnati, Ohio, and Armin Hartrath, of Chicago, Ill., for $5 subscribed by each for his new Chapel of the Sacred Heart.
—Tuesday is the Feast of the Annunciation. The Alissa Regia will be sung in the morning. The psalms at Vespers are from the Common of the B. V. M. Vespers will be sung immediately after Mass.	'
—The Juniors and Seniors and Minims made a fine show of their shamrocks on St. Patrick’s Day. Never before, perhaps, were the boys more enthusiastic on St. Patrick’s Day than they were this year. '
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	463
—A salute of ten guns was given on St. Patrick’s Day, which re-echoed over the hills and through the vales / around Notre Dame. There was no lack of shamrocks on that day. We noticed some very fine ones this year.
—On Sunday last the St. Edward Literary and Debating
Club had a social in Washington Hall. A sumptuous sup-
—At St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Ind., recreation was given per, furnished by their esteemed President, Prof. J. F. Ed-last Monday in honor of the glorious Apostle of Ireland, \'wards, was placed before them. Music was furnished by St. Patrick. We are glad to see the feast celebrated by Messrs. J. Quinn, T. Simms and G. Cochrane. The even-
—At St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Ind., recreation was given
St. Patrick. We are glad to see the feast celebrated by
every one. Notre Dame also celebrated the day in grand style.
—The Editor of The Scholastic, with Rev. C. Kelly and Rev. T. E. Walsh, visited Father Noll, of Elkhart, on the evening of St. Patrick’s Day, and addressed the members of the St. Patrick’s Society, who gave a magnificent supper on the occasion.
—The Maple Leafs organized lately with the following nine: G. Orr, catcher; E. Z. Walters, pitcher; H. G. Niles, short-stop; A. A. Caren, 1st base; R. O’Connor, 2d base; F. G. Pleins, 3rd base; E. Fogarty, left-field; G. C. Foster, centre-field; R. J. Semmes, right-field.
—Solemn High Mass was celebrated on St. Patrick’s Day at 8 o’clock, Rev. L. J. Letourneau being celebrant, Rev. C. Kelly deacon, and Rev. E. Lilly subdeacon. Mas-v
ter Donnelly, of the Junior Department, was censor-bearer, and Masters McGrath and Gibbons, acolytes.
—Very Rev. Father ^General has received as a present from Mrs. Geo. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Ind., $50 to buy, a gold key for the new Tabernacle, for which he returns ’> her his sincere thanks. This generous lady has on several occasions for the past four years shown herself a benefactor to Notre Dame.
—We see in one of our exchanges that Rev. P. P. Cooney is credited with being the first editor of the Ate Maria. This is a mistake. The first editor was Very Rev. E/ Sorin; the second was Rev. N. H. Gillespie. We believe that Father Cooney was once named editor, but he never had actual supervision of the paper.
—On Wednesday last the Juniors resolved to have a walking match, and accordingly measured off a mile in their play-hall, where the young contestants were to step; it. There was some pretty good walking done by the young fellows, but Master Osher made the best time, completing a mile in ten minutes and fifteen seconds.
—The 9th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held March 19ffi. Masters Gordon, C. McGrath, A. Campau, Woodson W. Coghlin, Jas. Courtney, A. Coghlin, Herb, Mattas and Fitzgerald delivered declamations. G. Rhodius read an essay. Masters Welty and Van Mourick were elected members of the Association.
—The 9th regular meeting of the St. Edward Literary Club was held on Wednesday, March 19th. The debate of the evening was: “ Which is the most preferable, country life or city life?” Those who took part in the debate were M. Buchmeier and T. O’Hara on the affirmative, and D. Clune and C. Brehmer on the negative. The question was decided in favor of the negative.
—Mr. Spalding’s oration on “ St. Patrick ” well deserved the applause it received on the evening of the Exhibition. He handled his subject well, both in regard to composition and delivery. For more than twelve hundred years has it been the theme of orators, and, strange to say, it is as fresh to-day as it was centuries ago. Mr. Spalding was honored in being selected as orator of the day, and he in turn did honor to his subject.
—The 20th regular meeting of the St. Edward Columbian Literary and Debating Club took place on Tuesday last. Messrs. J. Baker, C. Mueller, J. Arentz, C. Cones, and J. Downey were elected members of the Club. Geo. Cochrane was elected into the music corps. The debate—“Resolved, That the emigration from China should be restricted ’’—then took place. Messrs. W. Connolly and A. Keenan took part in it
—The twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh regular meetings of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society were held. March 4th and 15th respectively. The following declaimed : Masters French, Seeger, Campau, Mergentheim, Crowley, Guthrie, Morgan, Halle, Fenner, Farrelly, Manning, Devitt, McDevitt and Van Mourick. Very probably at the Entt rtainemnt to be given by them in April a can-
tied “Staciana,” will be rendered for the first orchestral accompaniment.
ing passed away in a very pleasant manner, and the whole was a perfect picture of happiness. A vote of thanks was tendered Prof. Edwards for his many favors, and all were unanimous in expressing their profound sentiments of gratitude to him.
—St. Joseph being the patron of the Manual Labor School, his Feast was not allowed to pass unnoticed by the . _ apprentices. The statue of the Saint in their study-hall. <>•-which at the beginning of the month had been decorated / “ with much taste by some of the boys, on the eve of the s Feast was beautifully decorated. The chapel was adorned with bouquets and’ lights. Very Rev. Father Granger said Mass in the morning, after which he addressed the
apprentices in a short but eloquent discourse, instructing /them as to the proper way of spending the festival of their patron. We understand that the day was spent very pleas-
antly by the boys.
—The twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society were held March -7th and 14th respectively. At these meetings the following young gentlemen delivered declamations: Masters G. Donnelly, J. Kurtz, J. Osher, T. F. McGrath, K. L. Scanlan, F. Weisert. Compositions were read by Masters G. A. Schnull, J. G. Brady and F. Bloom. The best composition this session was read by Master Bloom. The rest of the time was taken up in reading the various reports, the principal one of which was the report of the number of words mispronounced by the public readers in the refectory. There will be a lively debate soon on the subject “Resolved, That the Chief Executive of the Republic should be elected directly by the votes of the people.” /—The following was the programme of the Entertainment given on Saturcky last in honor of St. Patrick:
PART FIRST.
St. Patrick’s Day..................N. D. U. C. Band
Address.................................M. Bannon
Oration—“ St Patrick”...............S. T. Spalding
Overture—" Die Felsenmuehle ”—(Reissiger)	-
..............N.	D. U. Quartette
PART SECOND.
THE PRODIGAL LAW-STUDENT.
A Drama, in Four Acts.
Frederick, (a Law-Student)....... Mr. Martin (his Father)..........:.
Alfred (his Friend)..... Angelo (his Brother).... Nicodemus Geizhals (a Polish Jew). Mr.Richards (Friend to Mr. Martin).... Phineas Stout (a Yankee).......... Prof. Algood (Angelo’s Teacher)... Capt.Henderson (u. S. N.)... Admiral Ross (U. S. N.). Capt. Stonington (U. S. A.). Gen. Watson (U. S. A.).. Harry Johnson (an English. Fop)... George Winthrop......... Foster Livingston....... Doctor Fuzby............ Jake.................... Bob..................... Spencer................. Sammes.................. Mr. Ross................ Teddy................... Mr. Sinclair............ Henry Porter............ Corporal Jones.......... ...
Henry Newmark..................... 1st Sailor........................ 2nd “ ............................ 3rd “ ............................
Soldiers, Sailors, etc.
After Act 2nd, “ Irish Melodies ”.
___Geo. Sugg ....T.W. Simms ___M. Burns ___R. Mayer ___A. Keenan .. .B. Claggett ______R. Keenan ... .M. McEniry ....D. Donohue ___J. English ___J. Baker ___R. O’Brien ....J. Delaney .. G. Cochrane ___J. Brice ..W. Connolly ... .R. Stewart ___F.Wall ___J. English ___T. J. Byrne ....R. Stewart D. Coddington ___C. Cones ___E. Calkins ...J. Arentz ...P. Vogel
...F. Wall ...T. J. Byrne
N. D. IT. C. Band
After Act 3d, Overture, “Le Ma^on”—Auber— .	.	........N. D. TJ. Quartette
Closing Remarks Retiring March..
.Very Rev. President Corby ...........N.D.U. C.Band
464
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Entertainment given by the Columbians on the 15th inst., by anticipation, in honor of St. Patrick, was an agreeable surprise to all their friends who had the pleasure of attending it. Although we have always had a high opinion of the energy and enterprise of the Columbians, we were not prepared to see them acquit themselves as well as they did. Considering the limited time they had to prepare, for the play was not allowed to interfere with their classes, and the fact that several of them appeared on the stage for the first time, they did, one and all, remarkably well, and richly deserved the praise given them by every one present. The address on “Education,” by Mr. M. Bannon, was what was to be expected of him— solid and to the point. The oration on “ St. Patrick,” by Mr. S. T. Spalding, was an able effort, as was evinced by the frequent rounds of applause with which it was received. The music by the Band and Orchestra was up to the usual standard. From what we have already heard we may expect some very fine music before June. The “Prodigal Law-Student,” a drama in four acts, was the play chosen for the occasion. We would like to speak of each one who took part in it, as every one did so well, but as our space is limited we will have to confine ourselves to the principal characters. “Frederick,” a law-student, was well personated by Mr. Geo. Sugg. He sustained his character so well that he solicited the closest attention of the audience throughout the entire play. The role of “ Mr. Martin,” his father, was taken by Mr. T. W. Simms, and so truthful was his acting that he had the sympathy of his audience from the first to the last. Mr. Simms has a rich clear voice and a distinct articulation. “Alfred,” the friend, and “Angelo,” the brother of “Frederick,” were well represented by M. Burns and R. Mayer respectively. “Nicodemus Kuppernickel Geizhals” (A. Keenan) was indeed “ one wery schmart fellow,” but he was at the same time a very mean fellow, and we felt quite relieved when he—i. e. “Nicodemus Geizhals,” not Mr. Keenan—was put out of the way. Mr. B. Claggett, appeared as “Mr. Richards,” the Iriend of “Mr. Martin,” conceived his part well, and acted accordingly. The part of “Phineas Stout,” a Yankee, “ by Cripes,” was well rendered by R. Keenan. If, however, we might venture a remark, we should say that it was just a little overdone in one or two places. But this, we presume, may be overlooked when we consider that people in the postion in which “Phineas Stout” appeared on one or two occasions always overdo things. “ Angelo’s ” teacher, Mr. M. McEniry, made a good pedagogue. We were sorry that he had not more to say, as what he did say was said well. “Capt. Henderson” (U. S. N.), “Admiral Rap” (U. S. N.), “Capt. Stonington” (U. S. A.), “ Gen. Watson ” (U. S. A.), were ably personated by Messrs. D. Donahoe, J. English, J. Baker, and R. O’Brien respectively. “Harry Johnson,” J. Delaney, made a good fop. He could handle his beard ’nd cane well but couldn’t—ah—sing. “George Winthrop,” G. Cochrane, appeared to advantage, and could when occasion required make a good boot-blacks “Foster Livingston,” J. Price,and “Dr. Fuzby,” W. Connolly, also deserve praise for the manner in which they acted their parts. Nor must we forget the sailors and soldiers. Their appearance was much admired by all. So much for some of the individual performers. But one thing may be said of all. They knew their parts well, conceived well the characters they took, and carried on the play without the slightest break or hesitation. That they did so well must in a great measure be attributed to the attention and care of their earnest and energetic director, Prof. J. F. Edwards, who spared no pains to make the whole Entertainment a success. In this we congratulate him on having succeeded. The closing remarks were made by Very Rev. President Corby in his own happy way, after which all retired in the best of humor.—SouthrBend Evening Register.
—A lady who, though in the autumn of life, had not lost all dreams of its spring, said to Jerrold, “I cannot imagine what makes my hair turn gray. I sometimes fancy it. must be the essence of rosemary with which my maid is in the habit of brushing it. What think, you?” “I should be afraid, madam,” said the wit, “that it is the essence of thyme.”.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, R. M. Anderson, J. F. Arentz, M. W. Bannon, M. H. Bannon, A. J. Burger, J. B. Berteling, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, Thos. Barrett, Wm. Connolly, B. J. Claggett, G. P. Cassidy, J. M. Carroll, D. Donohue, J. H. Delaney, J. Downey, L. J. Evers, J. Eberhart, E. Dempsey, A. J. Hertzog, M. J. Hogan. T. J. Harrison, C. W. Hickerson, J. P. Kinney, R. E. Keenan, P. B. Larkin, A. A Lent, W. J. Murphy, R. P. Mayer, E. J. Maley, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, W. B. Mc-Gorrisk, J. McEniry, J. J. McErlain, R. C. O’Brien. L. N. Proctor, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, W. Ryan, M. Reilly, M. Roughan, 8. T. Spalding, J. Spalding, J. J. Shugrue, T. W. Simms, G. E. Sugg, A. Scheiber, E. Sctiifferle, P. Shea, F. Smith, T. S. Summers, R. W. Williams, F. X. Wall, J. J. Kotz.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. J. Burns, J. M. Boose, F. Becker, C. J. Brinkman, J. G. Brady, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, H. E. Canoil, A. A. Caren, W. D. Cannon, J. V. Cable. F. X. Campau, G. H. Donnelly, T. F. Devitt, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, E. C. Esmer, E. G. Gallagher, H. G. Guynn, F. Glade, F. T. Gaffney, M. L. Foote, G. C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, L. H. Garceau, J. L. Halle, J. Haney, M. E. Herrick, •J. Kurz, G. C. Knight, W. A Lentner, W. J. McCarthy, J. E.. McCarthy, W. McDevitt, H. G. Niles, G. N. Osher, G. Orr, R. E. O’Connor, E. B. Piekenbrock, A. Payro, F. B. Phillips, A P. Perley, C. F. Terry, A Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, D. R. Reidy, A. S. Rock, W. F. Reinhardt, J. M. Scanlan, J. A Seeger, G. A. Schnull, E. G. Sugg, J. K. Schoby, R. J. Semmes, C. P. Van Mourick, R. T. Williams, F. Zeis, A. F. Zahm, E. S. Walter.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
F. B Brady, J. J. Gordon, J. Crowe, H. Snee, C. Long, W. Rea, S. Tourtillotte, J. S. Couitney, J. M. Courtney, F. Walters, A. Hierb, C. Crowe, A. Chirhart, J. McGrath, J. H. Garrity, C. J. Welty, J. S. Inderrieden, A Rheinboldt, W. V. O’Malley, A. Van Mourick, J. Chaves, T. McGrath, F. K. Parsons, I. C. Williams, A. J. Campau, L. J. Young, P. Campau, F. I. Garrity, E. A. Howard, C. Young, H. A. Kitz..
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
P. Horn, R. Anderson, P. H. Vogle, G. Schnull, G. Castanedo, A Payro, C. Van Mourick, M. J. Burns, F. Glade, J. Mug, D. Reidy, F. Zeis, J. Harrison, E. SehifferJe, E. Piekenbrock, J. Kurz, F. Grever, A Mergentheim, J. Kennedy, M. Wolf, F. Phillips, J. Morgan, F. Becker, W. Rietz, C. Rietz, J. Halle, C.‘ Brinkman, E. 8. Walter, P. Perley, T. Conlan, G. Foster, E. Fogarty, J. McCarthy, M. J. McCue, J. Brady, J. B. Berteling, A. B. Congar, Geo. Sugg, R. Stewart, J. Baker, T. Barrett, A. Rietz, J. Gibbons, F. Bloom, W. McGorrisk, B. J. Claggett, K. Scanlan, J. English, R. O’Connor, R. O’Brien, R. P. Mayer, Geo. Cochrane, 8. Spalding, J. Guthrie. H. Niles, A. S. Rock, R. W. Williams, F. Weisert, P. Shea, E. Ewell, J. Arentz, M. Foote, J. Boose.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. M. Long, H. Snee, C. McGrath, J. 8. Courtney, C. M. Crowe, W. Coghlin, G. Rhodius, F. P. Brady, C. J. Welty, A. Rheinboldt, Harry A Kitz, J. S. Inderrieden, E. A. Howard, E. 8. Chirhart, T. McGrath, A. Van Mourick, A- F. Schmiickle, J. Chaves, I. C. Williams, F. K. Parsons, A J. Campau, F. I. Garrity, P. Campau, F. B. Farrelly, L. J. Young.	.	.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
German—W. Rietz, J. Halle, M. J. Burns, F. Phillips, E. Fogarty; French—G. Schnull, G. Castanedo; Elocution—R. Russell, F. McGrath, J. McGrath, K. Scanlan, M. Bannon, S. Spalding, P. J. Dougherty, A. B. Congar, T. W. Simms, W. J. McCarthy, J. G. Brady, M. J. Burns, R. P. Mayer, J. Downey, J. Mug, W. McDevitt, G. Donnolly, A. Zahm, F Wall, T. Halle; Music —A. Kietz, F. Bloom, K. Scanlan, A Rock, C. Rietz, R. Mayer, F. Grever, G. Schnull, E. Piekenbrock; Drawing—R. Anderson,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
465
R. Pleins, J. Seeger; Telegraphy—R. Williams, F. Weisert, P. Shea, E. Ewell.

—General recreation on the Feast of St. Patrick.
—Benediction is given every Friday during Lent.
—On Sunday morning, Rev' Father Shortis preached a powerful sermon on “The Forgiveness of Sin.”
—The Lenten instructions are full of interest, and always practical.
—Among the visitors during the past week were, Mr. and Mrs. K. Main, of Medina, Ohio; Mrs. A. K. Callahan, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. John McKerlie, Sturgis, Mich.; Mrs. Butts, Mrs. E. F. Coleman, Elkhart, Ind.; Mr. J. Hoadley, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. Dr. L. L Silverthorn, Charleston, Ill.; Mrs. Gerrish, Denver City, Col.; Miss Mary Morrissey, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. H. F. Wasika, Valparaiso, Ind.; Mrs. and Miss Russell, Oskosh, Wis.
—At the weekly Academic reunion Very Rev. Father General complimented the reading. It is difficult to say which gives most pleasure to the pupils—his presence or his approval. Miss Elizabeth Walsh read a beautiful eulogy on “St. Joseph,” by Marie Josephine; Miss McGrath read, in French, “ Les tribulations d’un homme de Lettres,” par Jean Grange; Miss Annie Herrmann read, in German, “Die heiligen Bilder,” von Coenbergs; “Rubenstein’s Playing ” (repeated by request), A. Cavenor.
—One day last week, the weather was so bright that no one could bear the idea of “ Literary Societies ”: shut up for an hour in the house, and the sun so warm and enticing outside. So a respite was obtained, on a serious condition, to which the petitioners joyfully acceded, and ran away to seek brooms and rakes. In a few minutes all were raising huge piles of leaves and raking up the litter of loose papers, ruthlessly consigning to oblivion many a bright thought which had refused to be put in a composition for want of appreciative surroundings, and thus became the sport of the winds. It was pleasant to see how merrily they tossed the brooms. No complaint of want of appetite was heard that evening.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly.
1st Sr. Class—Misses Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Teresa Killelea,(Sarah Hambleton, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Maloney, Zod Papin, Aurelia Mulhall, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Birch, Annie Woodin, Mary Casey.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Catharine Hackett, Angela Ewing, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Danaher, Annie Cavenor, Adella Gordon, Mary Brown, Annie Ryan, Grace Glasser, Mary Sullivan, Catharine Ward, Alice Farrell, Mary Plattenburg, Harriet Buck, Catharine Lloj d, Emma Shaw.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Anna McGrath, Angela Dillon, Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortiight, Alicia Doneian, Lucie Chilton, Adella Geiser, Agnes Joyce, Pauiine Hills, Catharine Hoadley, Annie Jones, Louisa Neu, Mary Usselman, Ellena Thomas, Catharine Ciaffey, Josephine Mitchell, Martha Wagoner, Ella Mulligan.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Mullen, Mary Feehan, Ina Capelie, Kathleen Wells, Marie Dallas, Linda Fox, Ollie Williams, Anna Hermann, Caroline Gall, Della McKerlie, Minna Loeber, Mary English.
' 2d Prep. Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Laura French, Annie Orr, Charlotte Van Namee, Johanna Baroux, Lilly Lancaster, Margaret Cleghorn.
2d Div.—Misses Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrence, Ellen Kinzie, Bridget Kelly, Sarah Purdy.
Junior Prep.—Misses Sabina Semmes, Annie Leydon, Mary Lyons, Marie McN. Garrity, Maud Casey, Celestine Lemontey, Matilda Kildaire, Angela Watson, Julia Wells, Sophie Papin, Ellen Lloyd, Ellen Cavanagh.
1st Jr.—Misses Ada Clarke, Mary Chirhart, Elise Lavoie, •Mary Paquette, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Jessie Pampel, Julia Cleary, Amelia Morris, Minnie Fisk,
2d Jr.—Misses Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Jane McGrath, Isabella Scott.
3d Jr.—Misses Alice Esmer, Manuelita Chaves.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen McGrath, Annie McGrath.
2d Drv.—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses Grace Glasser, Zod Papin, Elizabeth Kirchner, Ella Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Angela Ewing, Martha Wagoner, Lucie Chilton, Emma Shaw, Mary Birch, Mary Casey, Ida Fisk.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Annie Cavenor, 100; Misses Mary Brown, Annie Maloney, Annie Cortright, Mary Campbell, Minnie Cox, Linda Fox, Laura French, Nellie Kinzie, Julia Butts.
4th Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Johanna Baroux, Oll’e Williams, Annie Ryan, Mary Sullivan, Della McKerlie, Annie Jones, Sophie Papin, Catharine Wells, Ada Clarke.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Hermann, Caroline Gall, Mary Usselman.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Minna Loeber. Ina Capelle, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Claffey, Louisa Kelly, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Alice Doneian, Martha Pampel, Mary Fitzgerald, Catharine Ward, Agnes Joyce, Anna Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Catharine Hoadley, Maud Casey, Mary Chirhart, Martha Zimmerman, Julia Butts.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
2d Div.—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hoadley.
2d Div.— Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Aurelia Mulhall, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Emma Shaw, Kathleen Wells.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Hermann, Ann Leydon. Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, lorantha Semmes, Ellen Hackett.
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrence, Josephine Mitchell, Della McKerlie, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Sehwass, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Paulina Hills, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Kildaire.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Bridget Kelly, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Agnes McKinnis, Catharine Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Doneian, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, iMary McFadden, Annie Ryan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinsey, Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes, Lilly Lancaster.
7th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Misses Alice Esmer, Angela Watson, Celestine Lemontey.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, lorantha Semmes, Mary Brown, Mary Campbel), Alice Farrell, Annie McGrath.
Organ—Miss A: Hermann.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
Elementary Thorough Bass Class—Misses Emma Lange, Angela Dillon, Eleanor Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Mary Sullivan, Alice Farrell, Mary McGrath, Mary Usselmann, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Louisa Neu, Mary Campbell.
General Theoretical Classes—Best notes for the week— Misses Henrietta Rosing, Caroline Gall, Annie Cavenor, Annie Maloney, Mary Mullen, Annie Cortright, Kathleen Wells, Catharine Hoadley, Mary Dallas, Annie Hermann, Catharine Danaher, Martha Pampel, Agnes Joyce. Rebecca Neteler, Mabel Hamilton, Eleanor Thomas, Pauline Hills, Ida Torrence, Josephine Mitchell, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Alicia Doneian, Lucie Chilton, Linda Fox, Philomena Wolford, Annie Orf,' Mary Garrity, Maud Casey, Alice Esmer, Mary Chirhart, Martha-
466
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Zimmerman. Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Julia Butts, Ada Clarke, Catharine Ward, Ellen Lloyd, Manuelita Chaves, Blanche Garrity, Minnie Fisk.	.
Technical Exercises—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silver-thorn, Minerva Spier, Elizabeth Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan, Harriet Buck, Adella Gordon, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselmann, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Louisa Neu, Adelaide Kirchner, Emma Lange, Catharine Hoadley, Elizabeth Walsh, Aurelia Mulhall, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cortright, Mary Dallas, Mary English, Kathleen Wells, Emma Shaw, Anna Hermann, Angela Ewing, Martha Pampel, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrence.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Alice Farrell, Aurelia Mulhall.
4th Class—Misses Emma Shaw, Mary Sullivan.
5th Class—Misses Hattie Buck, Annie Jones, Mary Mulligan, Della McKerlie, Mary Hake.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3d Class—Misses Mary Sullivan, Catharine Campbell, Angela Ewing, Elizabeth Schwass, lorantha Semmes, Julia Butts, Mary English, Sarah Purdy, Sophie Papin, Ellen Mulligan, Minna Loeber.
CRATON.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange. PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
1st Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
2d Class—Miss Sarah Hambleton.
3d Class—Misses Hope Russell, Marie Plattenburg, Mary Campbell, Marie Dallas, Teresa Killelea, Ellena Thomas, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Laura French.
OILPAINTING.
3d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Harriet Buck.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Mary Campbell, Martha Pampel. Lucie Chilton, Teresa Zahm, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Josephine Mitchell, Ollie Williams, Mary English, Caroline Gal), Alicia Donelan, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Hake, Minnie Loeber, Bridget Kelly, Ella Cavanagh, Catharine Danaher, Adelaide Bisby, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrence, Mary Fitzgerald.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Laura French. Anna McGrath, Linda Fox, Catharine Claffey, Charlotte Van Namee. Catharine Campbell, Mary Chir-hart, Johanna Baroux, Rose Kildaire, Maud Casey, Lilly Lancaster, Julia Wells, Margaret Cleghorn, Sophie Papin, Mary Lyons, Annie Orr, Ella Mulligan, Agnes McKinnis, Marie McN. Garrity, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Mary Paquette, Annie Leydon, Elise Dallas, Ada Clarke, Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Alice Esmer, Martha Zimmermann, Angela Watson, Isabella Hackett, Isabella Scott, Mary Feehan, Celestine Lemontey, Mary Cox, Ellen Lloyd, Jane McGrath, Mary McFadden, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Lavoie, Minnie Fisk.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Annie Herrman, Louisa Neu, Mary Hake, Sarah Purdy, Alice Donelan, Della McKerlie, Adelaide Bisby, Elizabeth Schwass, Rebecca Neteler.
2d Div.—Misses Ellena Thomas, Mary Sullivan, Angela Dillon, Lucie Chilton, Marie Plattenburg, Minna Loeber, Ollie Williams, Mary Casey, Agnes Joyce, Annie Cavenor, Grace Glasser.
-PLAIN SEWING.
1st Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Ina Capelle, Mary Brown, Mary Birch, Mary Plattenburg, Annie Jones, Emma Lange, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen Keenan, Annie Maloney, Teresa Killelea, Catharine Lloyd, Adella Gordon. Elizabeth Walsh, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Schwass, Alice Farrell, Annie Ryan, Mary Sullivan, Alicia Donelan.
2d Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Catharine Ward, Mary Casey, Lucie Chilton, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Mullen, Ellena Thomas, Minna Loeber, Julia Barnes, Catharine Wells, Mary English, Ollie Williams, Mary Campbell, Della McKerlie, Teresa Zahm, Caroline Gall, Annie Hermann, Mary Hake, Sarah Purdy.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthorn, Rebecca Neteler, Teresa Killelea, Zoe Papin, Mary Casey, Aurelia Mulhall, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Emma Shaw, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Annie Cgyepor, Rlizabeth Kirchner, lorantha
Semmes, Catharine Ward, Mary Usselman, Alice Farrell, Henrietta Rosing, Adelaide Geiser, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Ellena Thomas, Agnes Joyce, Josephine Mitchell, Martha Wagoner, Catharine Hoadley, Minnie Loeber, Ina Capelle, Kathleen Wells, Mary Fitzgerald, Ollie Williams, Annie Hermann, Caroline Gall, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Mabel D. Hamilton, Bridget Kelly, Sarah Purdy, par excellence. Misses Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Annie Maloney, Anna Woodin, Mary Birch, Emma Lange, Sarah Hambleton, Adelaide Kirchner, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Harriet Buck, Lucie Chilton, Anna Jones, Pauline Hills, Louisa Neu, Julia Barnes, Maty Mullen, Mary English, Adelaide Bisby, Della McKerlie, Martha Pampel, Mary Hake, Ida Torrence, Ellen Kinzie.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Ellen Mulligan, Marie Dallas, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Orr, Ellen Hackett, Lilly Lancaster, Minnie Cox, Maud Casey, Sabina Semmes, Matilda Kildaire, Angela Watson, Annie Leyden, Celestine Lemontey, Mary Chirhart, Mary Paquette, Elise Lavoie, Jessie Pampel, Julia Cleary, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Isabella Scott, Manuelita Chaves, Alice Esmer, par excellence. Misses Mary Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Mary Feehan, Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn,. Catharine Campbell, Julia Wells, Ellen Lloyd, Sophia Papin, Ada Clarke, Amelia Morris.
—A true tale is told of the late Charles Mathews, that, personating an eccentric old gentleman, a family friend, he drank tea with his mother without her finding out the cheat.
—A medical journal, advising students how to take care of themselves, says:—“Sit up to the table when you read; easy chairs abolish memory. Do not read the same book too long at a sitting. If you are really weary of one subject, change it for another. Read steadily for three hours a day for five days in the week. The use of wet towels and strong coffee betrays igmrance of how to read. Test the accuracy of your work as soon as you have finished it. Put your facts in order as soon as you have learned them. Never read after midnight. Do not go to bed straight from your books. Never let your reading interfere with exercise or digestion. Keep a clear head, a good appetite, and a cheerful heart.”	.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and	'4
Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop
Dwenger, of Fort Wayne. ■
Gold Medal for'Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev.
Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr.
Toner, of Washington, D C. .
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M.
Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.	-
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and
Clssical Departments, 14; Modem Languages, 6; Drawing
and Painting, 5: Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, ' MOTHER SUPERIOR,	J
St. Mary’s Academy,
’	.	$lotre Dame P. O., Indiana.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
467
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHU R J. STACK [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weeklv Newspapers.
TEIE CATHOLIC COLOMBIAN; published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
*	D. A. Clarke, of '70.
THK AVE MARTA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
rpHK BOND HOTJs8E, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-J. igan. Tree Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATT ESO W HOUSE, Corner of Wa-
bash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD	FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.	'
Visiting Cards.
0^ CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
0 CENTS will (Jbtain you a Copy of Tan _ Scholastic Zi'-J Almanac for 1879. Address	■
.	J. A. Lyons, -
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attornevs at Law.
BROWN &. HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS R. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING &■ HOGAN (D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph Sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN F. MoHUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE A -DOOG-E [Chas. J„ Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61)
Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE <fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St:, Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLI A M J. CL 4 RRE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Roomte 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN- T>. McCORMICK.—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
D ANIEL R. HIBBARD, Jr., (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Special attention giyen to Collections. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Michigan, .	' sepl4-ly
1
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 OS a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.	.
12 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 pm, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 a m.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am; Cleveland, 7 (15 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 50and4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6am.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago
4 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation.. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a m; Chicago, 11 30 a. m.	'
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
.	CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a.m.	3.20 p.m.	Arrive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m	8.05 pjn.
12.55 “	2.30 “	- - - - LaPorte, - - -	10.25 “	8 55 “
12.28 “	2.08 “	- - - Stillwell, - - -	10.45 “	9.20 “
12.07 “	1.44 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.10 “	9.47 “
11.27 p.m.	l.t‘7 “	- - - Plymouth, - -	11.47 “	10.33 “
10.31 “	12.10 “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12 40 p.m	11.32 “
9 55 “	1L26 a. m.	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.17 “	1212 a.m.
9.25 “	10.47 “	- - - - Pern, - - - -	2 00 “	12 40 “
9.03 “	10.26 “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.22 “	1.01 “
8.33 “	9.56 “	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	3 00 “	135 “
7.52 “	9.13 “	- - - - Tipton,- - - -	3.38 “	216 “
7.10 “	8.30 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4.25 “	3 02 “
6.10 “	7.25 “	- - Indianapolis, - - -	5.25 “	4.00 “
		- - - -Cincinnat', - - -- - - Louisville, - - - - - Saint Louis, - - -	10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, « 9.00 “
- - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m- -	“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m.
“	“	1110 “	...	“	“ 2 55 a. m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
JSTBerths §1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance-
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Manager, Indianapolis
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo’, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street. Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. CSarpton, Gen. Pass, Agt,

468
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
QOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers ln Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
W. D. Cor. LaSalle «fc Monroe Sts.
Hbnby Styles, Manager.	Clxicago.
f22-ly
EDWARD BUYSSE
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELBY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE	*
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST!
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Des Moines, to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth; between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for TwoDollars and Fifty Cents; and a section for Five Dollars, while all other Unes charge between the same points, Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all through Express Trains. Yougetanentiremeal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a maj ority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes, (and the enormous passenger business ox this line warranting it,) we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of
our Palace Cars is * SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by;this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
AtCHlCAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, FtWayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At La Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
AtPEOHIA, WithP^P. A J.:P.,L. A D.; LB.4 W.; Bl. Midland; and T.. P. A W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island A Peoria Bailroads.
At Davenpobt, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R.R.
At West Libebty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids A Northern B. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D.M. & Ft. Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus Junction, with Burlington, Cedar Rapids A Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis, Kan. City ANorthern and C.,B. A Q. R. Rds. .At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk A N.-W.R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. A C. B. R. B.
At ATCHISON, with Atchison, Topeka A Santa Fe; Atchison A Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K.P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PALACE CABS are run through to FEOKIA, DES MOINES, COUNCIL, BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH;	_
Tickets via this Line, known as the "Great Boek Island Bente,” are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket aBee, address,
A^KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN.
> Gen’l Superintendent. .	' Gen’lTkt.RUdPass’grAgt, '
-	Chicago,®!-