Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlcturus; vlve Quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIV. • NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 22, 1881.	Number 18.
Our Staff.
G. E. Clarke, ’81.
G. F. Bugg, ’81.
T. F. Clarke, ’83.
W. B. McGorrisk, '82.
F. W. Bloom, ’81.
H. C. Simms, ’83.
W. H. Arnold, ’82.
R. E. Fleming, ’83.
F. H. Greyer, ’83.
The Feudal System.
JOHN P. HAGAN.
At the beginning of the fifth century, as we learn from history, the proud and magnificent Roman Empire ex. tended from the Atlantic Ocean to the banks of the Eu. phrates: from Caledonia, the Rhine, and the Danube, aa far as the African deserts. This vast and extensive territory, comprising, perhaps, the grandest and most enlightened empire that the world has ever beheld, was totally sub. servient to the sway and jurisdiction of Rome. But Rome, the most sublime and interesting monument of antiquity, the birthplace of innumerable and imperishable names; the happy possessor of famed amphitheatres and other renowned edifices; the centre, the fountain-head of learning, was destined to be of short existence. The corner* stone of her fame was inevitably crumbling away; patriotism, the life and blood of a nation’s existence, was dwindling into such insignificance that it was but a bubble in'the chaotic mass of feeble and infirm administrations.
That age when to be a Roman was greater than to be a king, had passed away, and lay entombed in the dread oblivion of the past; it was succeeded by that which witnessed the inhabitants basking in the sunshine of luxury and the victims of enervating debauchery; in a word, mighty Rome had lost “ the breed of noble bloods,” and was destined to survive them but for a brief period of time. For, those ruthless Northern barbarians, “ fanned by conquest’s crimson wing,” or actuated and forced onward by the thirst for war, and a nomadic inclination, swept in avalanche-like hordes over the fairest, wealthiest, and most civilized provinces of Europe, hurling everything aside in their irresistible and rapid march, untill nothing remained in its pristine state and splendor save that light of the world, that rock of ages, that infallible guide of the destinies of nations, the indestructible bulwark of general civilization, the Catholic Church. These respective hordes did not pour their countless legions over the great central empire of the Caesars alone, but all Europe was trembling to its very centre by the rapid destructive, ferocious, barbarian march. All the civilized provinces, as well as the proud mistress of the world, were overrun, depopulated, and placed at the mercy of relentless and savage plunderers, who in a short time extinguished the last vestige of enlightenment and civilization. The insignificant portion which remained undestroyed was swiftly disappearing by the necessary consequences of war, viz.: the horrors of pestilence and famine.
On the magnificent ruins of the Roman Empire, and, we
may say, of all Europe, these barbarian armies established themselves, and founded numerous distinct and independent petty sovereignties. From this disordered, confused existence; from this heap of earthly martial debris, from this chaos of affairs, arose a system of laws so extensively and universally received and adopted throughout all Europe, that the learned and profound Henry Spellman does not hesitate to pronounee it to be the law of the Western World. It was a code which regulated, controlled and governed all the personal obligations between the vassal and the lord, and ‘Dice versa. The fundamental doctrine of feudalism was that all the land was originally vested in the person of the leader, chief, or king, who was honored with the dignified title of lord paramount. The conquered lands were so exclusively vested in him, that parcels of it could only be obtained in the following interesting and somewhat comical manner. The principal followers, or superior officers, obtained as a recompense for their previous services, and aa an incentive to future exertions, and an enticement to gain new adherents, certain portions of land on conditions, hereafter ‘mentioned, which they in turn partitioned out on similar conditions to their most trustworthy soldiers or retainers; and so on, until by repeated subinfeudations the original grants were small enough for cultivation. These allotments were called feuds, fiefs, or fees, which signify, in the Norman dialect, according to the opinion of Sir William Blackstone, a conditional stipend or reward. The lord held the ultimate right of all the property, which was commonly recognized and universally known as his “stignory,” which he could not dispose of without first obtaining the consent of his vassal. A certain portion of the original lands were set apart and called “ benefices,” and were a source of revenue to support the king and his family, and for the maintenance of the honor, respect, and the dignity of the crown. But previous to the absolute vesting of these apportionments in the person of the inferiors, the vassal (for such was he called) was necessarily required to perform the ceremony of homage, fealty, and investiture.
Homage was usually divided into two classes, viz.: liege and simple. Liege homage was the ceremony of kneeling bare-beaded, with the hands placed • between those of the lord, and reciting the following customary formula: “Hear, my lord, I become your liege-man, of life and limb and earthly worship; and faith and truth I will bear to you to live and die, so help me God.” This ceremony of liege homsge was ordinarily concluded with a kiss; and in the opinion of numerous learned and deep writers of the present as well as of more remote times, this oath of homage was nothing more than the parent of our oath of allegiance. Simple homage was similar to liege homage, the only noteworthy difference being a deviation from the solemnities of the occasion, by allowing the chancellor to recite the oath, the vassal by his consent testifying his willingness. The oath of fealty exactly resembled that of homage, differing only in this unimportant particular, that it could be taken by proxy, while the performance of homage could not. The lord, in order to commence those military duties, was obliged to guarantee the possession of those feuds, fiefs, or fees, which he did by performing the act of investiture—the absolute requisite of every fee. The ceremony of investiture was either that gone through with in the conferring of actual possession, or that of symbolical investiture only.
274	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The former needs no explanation, as the words actual possession explain themselves. The latter, perhaps, requires an explanation. In symbolical delivery, the lord, in the presence of witnesses, took a clod of earth on a branch of a tree, from that particular fief, and placed it in the hands of the vassal, who was henceforward bound to obey, serve, and honor his lord in the fulfilment of the militaryduties. Military service was the principal personal obligation which traced or marked out the tenure by which such allotments were held. In times of peace, seldom witnessed in those turbulent periods, the vassal, according to his promise, was necessarily obliged to appear at certain great festivals of the year to deliberate upon affairs and questions of common interest and vital importance; and to constitute, as it were, an honorary body-guard for the king. But in times of war, the military duties were very numerous, laborious, and responsible; the vassals were bound to follow the banner of their respective lords, and, in early times, even if carried against the lord paramount. But William the Norman, wisely noting serious inconvenience attendant upon such proceedings slightly altered the customary form of the o.ith, by prefixing the following words: “Except against the king and bis heirs.” This addition of the Norman king constituted the protecting bar, or the king’s impediment, to the ambitious designs and inclinations of his turbulent vassals with their extended dependencies. The vassal was thenceforth compelled and bound to serve only his lord against anyone but the king and his legi’im ite heirs. With so much ardor and enthusiasm were those duties performed, that in those material ages they considered the duty of following the standard of their lord higher and holier than any other existing obligation. To proudly follow him was glory and fame; to survive his death in battle, a crime which time could not obliterate.
But besides those arduous military duties, which formed the condition on which these lands were to be held, numerous others of a similar nature and importance sprang up, and through the progression of successive ages became so intimately, connected with military obligations that they became inseparable from them. Such were reliefs, aids, escheats, wardships and marriages, and a numerous train of others upon which it is not necessary or important that I should dwell. Those just enumerated were the most common and important. After the partition of the conquered lands, the haughty barons, by repeated and successful encroachments on the king’s prerogatives, rendered those original grants of land life tenures, and by the same means soon rendered them hereditary. Reliefs:—When a vassal died and another became enstated, the new one, actuated by a motive of gratitude, paid the king a certain sum of money as an acknowledgment of the favor extended him; and this remuneration being repeatedly performed eventually became by custom a law. But another and, from the manners, customs, and general spirit of the times, I think, a better reason for this custom becoming a law is, that when the new vassal was enstated the rapacity of bis lord could not control, could not restrain itself from “boycotting” a new vassal, and by degrees his extortions naturally became a part of the system. Escheats:—When the vassal died without issue, which not unfrequent ly happened, his land was returned to the king who, as I have already stated, held the ultimate right of all the property. This process of returning land to the king was commonly known as escheat. We find something similar existing in our own country; the State law ordains that when a person holding property dies without issue, and intestate, his property passes into its hands and becomes a part of the public lands. Aids were certain sums of money extorted from the vassals at certain periods, the amount being in proportion to the oppressive disposition of him who exacted it.
There are numerous different classes of aids; one author mentions over a hundred: but I shall only speak of those which were of universal prevalence in the times of which I speak, such as marrying the eldest daughter, knighting the oldest son, and ransoming the king’s person when inprisoned in a foreign country. The first two were the most important in regard to the amount of the aid, as these ceremonies were usually attended with great feasting, banqueting and an inordinate display of splendor and magnificencep with all kinds of expensive manifesta-
tions. - When the king had the misfortune of being made prisoner, the entire nation mourned his loss, and contributed liberally to obtain his release. From this, in the trustworthy opinion of Henry Hallam, originated taxation. Wardship:—When a vassal died leaving an infant heir, the lord, by virtue of his title and dignity, had exclusive control of the feud; qnd the profits arising or accruing therefrom were entirely his; he also possessed and retained the custody of the heir dnring his minority. If the infant were a male, the lord was compelled to instruct him in the	'
science ot war, and bring him up in such a way as to render him fully competent to discharge the duties of that station in life which he was destined to fill. Marriage:— The lord also possessed exclusive control over the marriage .
of his vassal’s children. His female ward was compelled to select from three persons chosen by the king; if she refused, she was—unless she purchased a husband from the king—compelled to endure the sufferings and sorrows of single blessedness.
These are the principal parts and ceremonies of the great feudal system. There are many others, which, on account of their insignificance or unimportance, I do not consider worthy ot notice. Those of wh ch I have made mentione were the most extensively received and practiced. The feudal polity reached the acme of its perfection in the provinces of Germany, France, and England; but although it prevailed, to a certain extent, ihroughout Europe, it was never fully developed except in the above mentioned countries. Even Spain did not possess it in its truest foims. All the nations of Europe appear to have, by a sort of common accord, stumbled on this system, and seeing that the principles were well calculcated for those restless times, adopted it to a greater or less extent.
We should consider feudalism as a system peculiar to military rule, rather than a civil institution. The lord	'
paramount could only govern through his vassals and -sub-vassels; moreover, the principles were defective in securing the grand and primary object of law, namely, the internal tranquillity, peace and harmony of its subjects.
But as regards foreign aggression, it was wisely calculated to preserve and maintain the strength, dignity, honor and character of a nation against an invasion by foreign enemies. In such cases they were in complete union; but when these civil wars, which were continually raging, brought them in antagonism with one another, they possessed no union whatever; all were intent upon joining the cause of some haughty baron, who considered his honor insulted, or his pride humbled. It was a system well calculated to cope with unforeseen and extraordinary dangers, and to strengthen for a long time the supremacy of	I
the military power over the enlightened and refining civil power. It was founded or established for a periodical purpose, and it was successful in that alone. This solemn system was maintained by men who disdained every occupa-	'
tion except that of war, and who were admirably adapted by climate, and acquaintance with hardships, to undertake long and weary journeys for the sole purpose of plunder and conquest Such was the spirit of the times, that the obligations imposed upon men by.this system were looked upon as sanctified. Their lord’s wish was their will. But with all the faults which we, basking in the sunshine of enlightenment and aided with the experience of ages, may observe in the system, we cannot refrain from admiring the.
the penetrating genius of men who were so wide awake to	J
the spirit of the times as to form a system so well suited to those revolutionary and turbulent ages in which they	>
lived. But when the lords had become tired of the hard- - . ships of war, and were enticed by the splendor and luxury * and magnificence of the less martially inclined; when they abandoned war for the more civilized and enlightened occupations, then began to diminish that military ardor .
which called forth the feudal system.
The Crusades were another cause for its decadence and utter extinction. These crusades were set on foot by the martially inclined warriors of all Europe, with the sanction of the Church, to deliver the Holy. Land from the thraldom of infidels, who refused Christians permission to visit a land sanctified by the life, sufferings, and blood of the Saviour; for, by being thoroughly united in the accomplishment of one grand object, they forgot their own petty strifes and quarrels, and saw their best interests could be better maintained by working harmoniously to-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
275
gether than by being engaged in constant warfare with each other.
We have considered the rise, progress, fall, and utter extinction of the feudal system, but the influence which it exercised on the laws of the countries will be felt, perhaps, forever. The laws of realty, which are numerous, difficult and intricate, are entirely based upon the principle of the feudal system. We Americans are the only people whose laws contain but little feudal principles; our Eastern States, those first settled, have still a relict of some parts ot the feudal system; but the West is entirely free from any such influence. Though the system is now buried in the oblivion of the past, no one wishing to understand the laws governing real estate, can accomplish his objects without having a knowledge of the feudal system.
The Chinese Must Go.
BY T. A. DAILEY, A. M , M S.
The Christmas No. of the Scholastic contained a plausible and well-written article, embodying all that has been said and written by emotional philanthropists and theoretical lovers of liberty since the subject of Chinese immigration became so startling as to attract the whole world’s attention. The problem is no longer theoretical; it comes before our Pacific neighbors with all the reality of a hideous, uncompromising fact. It must be met fairly, and its solution should not be delayed by untimely and misplaced sentiment. Theory must succumb to the grim logic of inevitable necessity; a minimum of right must yield to a maximum of rigid justice. The greatest good to the greatest number must prevail; charity begins at home. Every zephyr from California bears a warning and a demand; every sin-cursed valley and pauperized village, every outraged conscience in all that long coast region contains a dread menace: 27te Chinese must go. At whatever cost, at whatever sacrifice, John Chinaman must go back to his heathen, rat-eating, obscene haunts in the ce’estial kingdom; or, better still, he must not come here with the curse of his physical, mental and moral leprosy clinging to him like a garment which cannot be shaken off. It is not a question of present competition, of an onerous burden of poverty seeking refuge and relief, but that of opening our granaries to a multitude of vermin more odious than the plagues of Egypt. A little evil now is preferable to an overwhelming one in the future.
Imbedded in the very foundation of our national Bill of Bights is the fundamental idea that this is a white man’s Government, upreared by white men for their descendants. All treaties ignoring or abrogating this principle ought to be held in abhorrence, and if made, they should be annulled as speedily as possible. No doubt there is room for several millions of industrious, intelligent, law-abiding, civilized (if not Christian) white men on the Pacific slope, but the land were better idle and forever unoccupied than given over to an inferior race of pagan barbarians. The Christian white men and women already there say there is no room for such a debased horde of people, and they are right.
Other foreigners come to America to seek homes for themselves and their growing families; they are impressed with the grandeur of our domain, the freedom of our civil and religious institutions, the fertility of our soil and the culture of our people. They come to stay. They are true immigrants; and no matter how poor, illiterate and debased, we welcome and aid them, because they are white men, and contain the germs of future growth—a vigor and solidity which have made our country great and famous wherever there is found commerce of thought and enterprise of action. But the Chinaman contains none of these elements, and comes here for no such purpose; he is actuated by the basest motive which afflicts our sadly complex nature—the motive which induces the buzzard to linger in the air above the wounded and dying lion; the shark, to follow the steamer’s wake; an utterly selfish and despicable motive—the greed for gain. He comes to our shores with the hope of accumulating a certain aipoqnt or
gold, that he may enjoy his old age in indolence at home. He cares nothing for our people, save to rob them. He cannot benefit us materially, and by what conceivable right can he become a beneficiary ?
Consider the moral aspect of the question. What effect will his heathen practices have upon our civilization ? of what reciprocal effect will our superior heritage and development of culture have upon his blighted mind ? All experience teaches that an inferior race, mechanically mixed with a superior, lowers and degenerates the latter without elevating the former. It is based upon the undisputed avidity of mankind to absorb evil and reject good. If you doubt it in the question at issue, go with me to the slope and behold the sickening scenes of squalor and licentious depravity—the revolting and damning orgies of a Chinese quarter. You will leave that spot with a sensation of uncleanness, and a feeling of such unutterable, awful condemnation as can never be recalled in memory even without an emotion of terror and despair. You will find Americans there sunk in such vile debasement as my pen refuses to describe—Americans of every age and grade, who have fallen lower than the vilest moon-eyed Celestial on the globe.
It is undeniable that the Chinaman, who has ro conscience, no active sense of right and wrong, is not im-proved by his iatercotr ;e with his American a-srciates. The Indian, who has a much higher development of intellect, and more capability of improvement, was lowered to a vile, truculent, pilfering, abject sneak by such contact.
“ When things are at their worst they’re bound to mend,” wrote Lord Byron; but I fear he never saw a Chinaman. He could not have the audacity to apply such a cheering epigram to such a worthless creature. There is no mend to him. Like a piece of rotten cloth, there is no place to fasten the stitches; or like a harbor of quicksand, the anchors will not hold, and labor upon it is worse than wasted.
The African slave for two centuries has hung upon the United States like the phantom incubus of a fever delirium, and the end is not yet. In all those years the race has made little progress, save through miscegenation, at the direct expense of the white race. Fifteen hundred thousand, as intelligent, brave and gallant men as ever trod the earth, laid down their lives upon the altar of this pagan Moloch, entailing upon the nation a burden of debt, devastation and hatred, which time is scarcely long enough to efface. Can we learn nothing from experience? Shall we permit another pagan wedge to sunder our institutions so widely that they can never be restored, or one which will certainly degrade them to that degree of worthlessness that they will not be worth restoring? I think not.
The time to eradicate a noxious weed is prior to its growth; the time to check an evil is in its infancy. The time to sweep African slavery from the States was the day the first ship-load landed at Jamestown; a little effort then ^rould have been crowned with success, and would have established a precedent for all future time. The time to weed out Mormonism was at the first public demonstration made by Joseph Smith in defiance of the laws; now it will requite the moral prestige of all our combined civilization, and double our standing army, to effect its expulsion; another generation of license and encouragement, and it will be prepared to set at defiance the whole power of our nation. Every lesson which history teaches us points to the solemn conclusion that the Chinaman must go.
Art, Music and Literature.
—“ James Russell Lowell,” says the London Vanity Fair, l- is a learned, kindly, strong, pleasant, honest man. He writes with quickness and facility, and always with great coi redness, that English language of which he is so proud and so fond; and he is personally altogether one of the most delightful of men.”
—The Sisters of Charity at St. Vincent’s Orphan Asylum, Toledo, Ohio, are famous for the beautiful wax-work and artistic embroidery made at their Institution. The wax figures of the Infant Jesus which the Sisters made for Christmas cribs are so naturally moulded that it is diffl-
276
THE NOTRE DAME SHOLASTIC.
cull for one to realize they are not imbued with life. The inc ome arising from the sale of them and other works of art is used for the maintenance of a large number of poor orphan children.
—At Patti’s farewell performance at Berlin the Emperor William came ou the stage to compliment the artiste. After having warmly congratulated her, he asked her how long she intended to remain in America. Patti replied that she expected to pass two years there. “ Two years,” said the Emperor; “that is a long time for a man of my age, and in thanking you once more I am probably bidding you farewell forever.” So Patti is really coming over.— Musical Record.	•
—The first operatic libretto, that of Poliziano’s “ Orfeo,” was the work of Cardinal Riario, nephew of Sixtus IV-Pope Clement IX was the author of no fewer than seven libretto. The late Pope Pius IX frequently invited the Abbe Liszt to s'ay with him. He took care to have in his apartments an excellent piano, and, too polite to ask the eminent oirtuoso to perform, seeing that in his case a mere hint would have been a command, used to have the instrument constantly open, so that the great pianist might play whenever the mood cune upon him.
—In a rapture of pious indignation at the popularity of Bernhardt, and the talk ab iut the “ Passion Play,” a New York minister of the Gospel lifts his voice against what he calls “ Oratories on Religious Subjects.” He declares that “the power of the authorities, if they have any, should not begin and end with the ‘ Passion Play.’ Those sacred oratories, Handel’s * Messiah,’ Mendelssohn’s * Elijah,’ and others, ought never to be allowed in a public theatre, in a community whose religion is based on the Old and New Testaments.” Surely we are a preached-at people! But does not this crude stutterer disqualify himself when he thus arrays himself against the Apostolic command—the Scriptural order to teach in song? A man who can see no power for good in sacred music, such as the oratories of Handel and Mendelssohn, can have no musical capability whatever; all melody and harmony are totally lacking in him. And it is a question whether such a man is qualified for preaching. Singing by multitudes has been called preaching by wholesale, and surely there is no more impressive preaching than the solos of the great oratori< s, and the glorification of the Eternal Father in the grand waves of song that swell the mighty choruses. Such music is a mighty engine for war and conquest—Church's Musical Visitor.
Exchanges.
—The editor of The Watertown (Wis.) Gazette, the man that banged the “ bangs ” after such an approved fashion; wishes us to bang him again. He likes this kind of banging, but not the other. He says he is glad to have made our acquaintance, because he thinks there is plenty of fun in us. Oh yes, when we are not vexed about something we find ourselves crammed so full of fun that there is no getting it out in proper shape; it must be chopped out in chunks, with an axe. Colleges are wonderful places for cramming; but it is bad to cram too close, as the stuff- will not then come out when you want it. We believe it is necessary to pack things in straw at college as elsewhere —as in ice houses, for instance,—and the difficulty with us is we don’t get straw enough. In other words, we need rec.
—We welcome the January number of the Cwcilia the more warmly on account of its enlarged English department The publication of A. F. Thibaut’s work on “ Purity in Musical Art,” which secured the privilege of a translation by W. H. Gladstone, and the “ Easy Lessons in Gregorian Chant,” are d propos, and cannot fail to have a good effect. Comparatively few understand the grand old Gregorian Chant, which for more than a thousand years has reverberated-through the great cathedrals of Europe, ^ud which obtained a iresh impulse in Europe and this country during the last few years through the exertions of Dr. Witt and his co-laborers of the St. Cecilia Society. •Jhe musical pieces accompanying the Cacilia are of them-
selves worth far more than the price of subscription, $1.50	;
a year. We would like to see the Caeilia entirely in English.
—Somebody wishes to know what the “root o’beggars” is, to which we referred in last week’s Scholastic. Why, mangold wurtzel, Swede, or Rutabaga, of course—what else could it be? These are common roots; and frivolous people “who cannot dig, and to beg are ashamed,” are apt to turn-up their noses at anything common. Carrots are dry, and inclined to produce red hair, hence the term	■
“ carroty-headed ”; and as we are as carroty now as we wish	I
to be, we do not hanker after carrots. But Rutabagas are sappy roots, and as sapience is a rare commodity, especially among college “ diggers,” Rutabagas—often called by gardeners “root o’beggars”—are not so bad after all.
We have-read of a philosophic woman—a graduate from one of the co-educational colleges, no doubt—who fed her daughters largely on fish diet, because fish contain a great deal of phosphorus, and phosphorus is one of the principal agents in making matches; therefore we argue that sappy roots are a good thing for those who wish to become sapient. Verbum sap. Do you see?
—The Pilot, Boston, Mass., is, it is needless to say, one of our prime favorites among the Catholic newspapers. The editor, John Boyle O’Reilly, who is still a young man, had at the age of thirty-five—a period at which most great writers had hardly begun their public literary career-carved for himself a name and no little fame as a poet and prose writer. Before entering upon his editorial career, Mr. O’Reilly had borne the chains of a convict for his patriotism and devotion to his natiue country’s cause, and such was his brilliancy as a writer even then that while under the ban of English public opinion as a political convict-, he had, under a nom de plume, found a place for his contributions in some of the highest toned of	►
the English magazines. Shortly after his wonderful escape from an honorable penal servitude in the chain-gangs of Australia, Mr. O’Reilly took editorial charge of The Pilot, and has since conducted it with signal ability. We honor him as an able writer, and as an editor whose eagle eye is quick to discern whatever may enrich his paper, but our heart goes out to the darling and steribg patriot, the man of high culture and gentlemanly feeling who dared all for his country, even the fate of a chained convict, which he endured for years. His wonderful escape, and the retiring modesty with which he has deported himself amid honors that seldom fall to the lot of a young man, gives Mr. O’Reilly’s career the tinge of romance; and in fact his adventures, and the honorable position which he now holds, after his early checkered career, as one of the pets of Boston literary society, seem to befit more the hero of a high-toned sensational novel than a personage in real life. Superadded is the character of the sterling, well-educated Catholic gentleman that fears not the frowns of bigotry nor is carried away by the laudation of his admirers—those social rocks upon which so many of his . fellow-exiles with weaker heads have been lost. They could bear adversity, but social honors ruined them. We honor and admire Mr. O’Reilly, and we admire the paper which he so ably conducts. Crammed to the full with news, gossip, and poetry of a high order, The Pilot cannot fail to be appreciated by a very large circle of readers, and some of the oldest and best of our American editors have
given The Pilot a willing and unstinted meed of praise.	.
That the editor and the paper may both deserve it in the future as in the past is the new-year’s wish of The Notre Dame Scholastic.
—The “ Hunt for a Provost ” in the Pennsylvania Uniwr sity Magazine is a capital thing—splendidly written, and full of the quaint, quiet, unobtrusive humor that frequently characterizes the sketches in the Magazine. The Tennessee and Dakota business of the English candidate for the Provostship is drawn from life; the alternate Saturdays and Sundays to be spent at the University being a counterpart of the way in which some of our Congressmen attend to Congressional affairs at the Capital, this feature of the sketch is a “capital ” affair io the true sense of the word. But Congressmen, like other people, must live, and in trying to make ends meet they must have something else to depend upon besides their salary; therefore, if they be honest, and wish to keep clear of Credit Mobilier and con-
tHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
277
gressional stock-jobbing, they must perforce attend to their farms, their law, mercantile or mining interests. The duties of the Provost at the typical American college are '	faithfully limned too, we see:—“to be eloquent in
Latin at Commencements, and Queen’s English on less imposing occasions; to appear in chapel every morning, and thus in some measure to atone for the regular absence of a sinful faculty; to be sweetly orthodox in all matters of educational reform [and particularly co-educa-tional reform]; and to be kindly submissive to the dic-,	tates of the trustees.”	Then the “ None but beggars need
'	apply” feature: “The	President of one of our great colleges is a remarkable	specimen of what I mean. He can
in the course of an hour’s talk, make his victim believe that he is an egregious sinner,—lost beyond redemption, if he does not hand over his pocket-book at once. He never leaves a gentleman’s office without at least five thousand dollars, and frequently walks off with half-a-million. That’s the sort of Provost we want. Oh! he must be a man of >	business as well as a scholar.” Capitally hit again. The
editorial matter of this number of the Magazine is spiritedly written, and the “ cowardly Medics ” receive a scath-j	ing rebuke. With them it is, as usual, acting in haste and
I	repenting at leisure. The Inter-collegiate Press Associa-
■	tion seems to be a settled thing, New Haven to be the
place of meeting. It will no doubt do good in smoothing j	down the ruffied feathers of college editors, and creating
a kindlier feeling and esprit du corps. Among the clippings we find a coarse and vulgar thing, credited to The Varsity, by mistake, for it originally appeared in a political newspaper, where in good taste it should have been left. The bringing into such matters an aged and venerable prelate, who never bothered his head about politics, is a piece of coarse vulgarity, and we were surprised to find the clipping in the high- toned pages of The University Magazine.
-	John Kelly no doubt has his faults, but all agree that he
is an honest man, and an honest man in politics is a rarity nowadays. But, in any case, the mixing up of Cardinal McCloskey’s name in the affairs of the Tammany leader is an unpardonable piece of vulgarity. We are glad The Varsity editors or contributors did not write the piece; although they dishonored themselves by publishing it, and still further by publishing it without credit, theirs is not the dishonor of having written it. Such work is evidently in accordance with their tastes and opinions, but we thought the Pennsylvania editors above such ill-natured doggerel stuff.
—The Oberlin Review for January the 8th is a unique number—not admirable by any means, but unique. Two or three of the essays in late numbers of the Review were so excellent in their character and so well written that we wished to notice them, but time was lacking, and they passed without comment. We regret it now, as we cannot speak favorably of those in the present number of the Review, and we would rather have occasion to speak in praise than to find fault. This time it is not fault with the manner of writing—which we rarely do, and then only to dash the conceit of some arrogant ning-compoop; what we cannot help finding fault with are the subjects of the essays. In the first, “Henry VHI, in ।	Human Progress,” the royal reprobate is extolled as a
benefactor to British humanity for robbing and suppressing the convents and monasteries. Not a word is said about his murdering his wives, one after another, in cold
£ blood, to satisfy his lust. The truthful, college-bred es-7	sayist seems to think the matter of the murder of a few
,	wives and the divorcing of half-a-dozen, a matter of little
or no consequence—not worth mentioning, in fact. We suppose he has been reading the truthful volumes of Hume, and not those of Macaulay or Lingard. No notice is taken of the murder of Bishop Fisher of Rochester, of whom Henry used to boast that no sovereign in Europe possessed his equal in virtue or probity; nor of the murder of Sir Thomas More, one of the purest and best chancellors that England ever posssesed. Here is the way Henry’s little vices are viewed by the Oberlin essayist:
“Now what are the premises of those who denounce the character of Henry a barrier to human progress ? These are found in the peculiar nature of his character. He possessed a great intellect, hence his domain of reason. His fiery nature and impervious will towered beyond the reach of his judgment, hence his actions of cruelty. Intellect and will—these were the
chief springs of his action, the source of his power. Henry was also a creature of impulse and emotion, but one of mighty influence. So great his self devotion, so intense his passion and will that he can dare all, defy all, conquer all. In him was ex pressed every type of emotion from the grandest heroism to the basest self-love; from fierce avenging fury to loving pathetic tenderness. Side by side are frankness and treachery, fear and boldness, guilt and purity. He may seem scarcely human but he sounds humanity like a philosopher.” '
There! we believe that much will do. What do you think of it reader, as a specimen of college culture? If guilt can be gilded, Henry’s surely has gilding here. We suppose Mirabeau will come next, or perhaps Voltaire, and then the devil, for a eulogy. The second essay in this number of the Review is a eulogy of Benedict Arnold, the traitor, in which the faults are condoned and the virtues extolled. Well, at all events, the traitor Arnold has at last found some one to say some good words for him. A statue will be next in order. In the locals we find the following leading items:
Beecher.
H. W. Beecher.
Henry Ward Beecher.	’
Save your money for Beecher.
When Beecher dies, perhaps somebody will be found at Oberlin to eulogize him and clear his memory from moral stain. We do not think him the proper man, however, to hold up as a model, or to select as a teacher for youth, and especially in a co educational institution like Oberlin. But in any event, Beecher is a saint in comparison with Henry VIII, who murdered four wives simply to gratify his lust.
—The editors of The Virginia University Magazine gave their readers an excellent number for December. This is the last number of the magazine that we have received, so it seems the publication is a little behind the usual time for monthlies, which is generally a little in advance of, or early in the month. .The Magazine has improved somewhat upon its appearance in former years, and the December number is matkedly superior to that of November in matter. The article on “Historical Study” gives what is apparently the result of experience in regard to this branch of study, which begins to be deservedly popular in most of our colleges. “The Author of Crime, a Biographical Sketch,” from the pen of the editor-in-chief of the Magazine, R. H. Dabney, is a masterpiece of writing, and recalls some of the really fine sketches that appeared in previous issues of the Magazine. We suppose some of the college critics will object to the length of the sketch, but this stricture would be unreasonable, and should not be heeded; the subject of the sketch, Madame de Stael, deserves the space, and the able manner in which it is written makes the reading of it a pleasant task. In our criticism of the November number of the Magazine, we promised to speak at some length of one of its articles, namely that entitled “Diogenes von Teufelsdrockh,” and it might be as well that we should now turn our attention for a while io him of the nasty cognomen—or rather to the raison d'etre of the article. The apology for bringing out Sartor Resartus in a new role is not so bad, but it might have been in better taste to have left the German name of the Cobbler Re-cobbled where Carlyle buried it. The apology might pass, whether this beanage of Hero-Worshippers or not, and we do not quite agree with Carlyle that it is not; but the philosophy with which Diogenes von Teufelsdrockh was enveloped should not be permitted to pass unquestioned.
Allowing the writer credit for the excellence of his style and the purity of his diction, we challenge the title he would give Hume. He was not by any means a lover of truth. With all the means of arriving at truth, Hume was doubly a liar, by suppression, and by perversion of the truth, as suited his purpose. He cannot, therefore, be relied upon. So much for the person whom our writer terms the “deep-thinking, truth-loving Hume”—the first of his down-pullers. The second, the sottish “ Philosopher ”(?) ot Ferney, is far worse, for he was a thief as well as a liar, and a thief of the very lowest kind, as his petty thefts while the guest of Frederick of Prussia abundantly prove. If ever a man walked this earth deserved the name of Teufelsdrockh, Francois Arouet, alias Voltaire, is that man. A. believer in revelation, he during a long life mocked and blasphemed the Almighty; possessing a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
great intellect, he prostituted his God-given talents to the vilest purposes; the son of excellent parents, and educated as a gentleman, he became a sot, and placed himself on a level with pickpockets. Such was Voltaire, the second of the down-pullers. He died as he had lived, an enemy to God, although he would at the close have it otherwise. But “Voltaire” was a hypocrite, and undeserving the divine clemency. Three times on a bed of sickness had he recanted his errors and promised amendment, and all three times did he return like a dog to the vomit when he got well.
“ When the Devii was sick, the Devil a monk would be;
But when the Devil got well, the devil a monk was he.”
If report be true, “Voltaire” sent a third time for a priest to shrive him, but the priest would not be admitted by the infidel friends surrounding the hoary blasphemer, and he died blaspheming God and man for thus abandoning him. This is the story told by his servants, and they had no reason to belie him, for with all his faults “ Voltaire ” was a kind master. There are those still living who heard what they said, and lurthermore, the assertion that the reprobrate died stuffing his excrements into his blasphemous mouth. This is why we say that if ever a man walked this earth who deserved the appellation of “Teu-felsdiOckh,” Voltaire was that man, if man he could be called.
Kant, who with GOthe is styled by the writer in The Virginia ’University Magazine one of the “God-sent rebuilders,” deserves more than a passing notice. The materialistic philosophy of this man has done more than anything else, perhaps, towards undermining all religious convictions, no matter of what kind. Upon it Fichte reared the structure of Pantheism or German Transcendentalism. The author of the Doctrine of Science, in concluding his work, says that he leaves the reader at the point where Kant takes him up; but he “ought rather to have said,” as Balmes justly remarks, “that he takes the reader up at the point where Kant leaves him. The author of the Critique of Pure Reason, by converting space into a purely subjective tact, destroys the reality of extension, and opens the door to those who wish to deduce all nature from the me of Pantheism; and by making time a simple form of the internal sense, he causes the succession of phenomena in time to be considered as mere modifications of the me to the form of which they relate.” According to Kant, creation exists only in the mind of man, and without this creative power in the mind creation would have no existence. It is plainly to be seen, therefore, that Kant’s theory would not only destroy the revealed truths of- Christianity, but also do away with ontology. As Stbckl says, Kant would have the Son of God only “ as the ideal of humanity in its full moral perfection ” as existing in God,—an ideal existence, and no real existence, leaving people free to form their own opinions; whether ever such a man existed, or never existed, remains a matter of indifference. In other words, according to Kant, we are to regard Christ in no higher sense than as a simple man, and all anyone would have to do in order to obtain a similar existence would be to live up to the idea as it exists in God. This is Kant’s theory; and this is what the writer would have us believe the theory of a “ God-sent Rebuilder ”! It is not such as he thinks it. If Kant’s pretension be accepted, there will result a more serious down-pulling than that of Hume or Voltaire. The latter pulled from the top: Kant seeks to undermine, and to bring down the structure of Christianity with a crash. But in his efforts to destroy religion, Kant involves also the destruction of reason itself. His theory that there can be no truths without sensible representations—that is, which we cannot see, hear, taste, or feel—is ’ silly as well as monstrous, for it would destroy all metaphysical science, and involved in its deplorable ruins would perish the most fundamental, most precious, and most sacred ideas of the human mind. According to Kant, transcendental analysis makes us see that the understanding can never pass the limits of sensibility, the only limits within which objects are given to us in intuition. Those principles which were regarded as eternal pillars of the scientific edifice sink into empty forms, without meaning, so soon as they rise above the sphere of sensibility. Kant denies objective existence, and affirms merely subjective existence—that is, the real existence is denied, and admitted only so
far as it exists in the mind. Kant is professedly a sen-sist, acknowledging only sensible intuition; the possibility of a purely intellectual intuition, whether for our own or for other minds, he considers doubtful. But notwithstanding Kant’s theory there are within us many non-sensible phenomena, of which we are clearly conscious; reflection, comparison, abstraction, election, and all the acts of the understanding and will, include nothing of the sensible. We should like to know to what species of sensibility abstract ideas, and the acts by which we perceive them, belong; these, among others: I desire; Ido not disire; I choose this; I prefer this to that. Not one of these acts can be presented by sensible intuition; they are facts of an order superior to the sphere of sensibility, and yet we have in our mind a clear and lively consciousness of them; we reflect upon them, make them the object of our studies, distinguish them from one another, and classify them in a thousand different ways. These facts are presented to us immediately; we know them, not by discursion, but by intuition; therefore it is false that the intuition of the soul refers to none but sensible phenomena, for it encounters within itself an expanded series of non-sensible phenomena, which are given to it in intuition; It is of no use to say that these internal phenomena are empty forms, and mean nothing unless referred to a sensible intuition. Whatever they may be, they are something distinct from this same sensible intuition; and we perceive this something, not by discursion, but by intuition; therefore, besides sensible intuition, there is another, of the purely intellectual order. That these conceptions exist is certain; consciousness attests this fact, and all ideologists admit it. That they are sensible, cannot be maintained without destroying their nature: and least of all can Kant maintain this, since he has so carefully distinguished his sensible intuition from conceptions such as these. The communication of minds by means of speech, and other natural or conventional signs, is a fact of experience intimately connected with all intellectual, moral, and physical necessities. When a mind is put into communication with another, the cognition it has of what passes in the other is not by mere general conceptions, but by a kind of intuition, which although mediate does not therefore fail to be true. The thought or affection of another communicated to our mind by means of speech excites in us a thought or affection similar to that of the mind communicating them. We do then not only know, but see, in our own consciousness, the consciousness of another, and so perfect is at times the likeness, that we anticipate all that he is about to tell us, and unroll within ourselves the same series of phenomena that are verified in the mind of him with whom we are in communication. We know what he thinks, what he wants, and is trying to express. This analysis of ideological facts, whose existence cannot be doubted, demonstrates the falseness of Kant’s doctrine, that there are in our mind none but sensible intuitions, as well as the non-existence of the German philosopher’s problem: whether it be possible, or not, for objects to be given to other minds in an intuition other than the sensible. This very problem is found solved within us, since the attentive observation of the internal phenomena, and the reciprocal communication of minds, has given us to know not only the possibility, but also the existence of intuitions different from the sensible. A man born blind has no intuition of colors, nor of anything that refers to the sense of sight, but he is sure that there exist external facts which correspond to an internal affection, called seeing. This idea is incomplete, but it has a determinate object. The words of those who possess the sense of sight reveal to him its existence; he knows not what it is, but that it is; in other words, he knows not its essence, but its existence. So also with the deaf man in regard to music, or the man who has lost the sense of taste. In ourselves, if we reflect upon a kind of sensation different from our own, we find new conceptions, having indeed a general object, but of whose realization we know nothing. Thus we see how our mind, without having intuition of a thing, can nevertheless know it, and be perfectly certain of its existence. Kant denies ontologism, which teaches that there are truths of immaterial as well as material things in themselves. The ideas of the purely intellectual order originate in the senses as movers of the intellectual activity ; but this activity, by means of abstraction and other
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
279
operations, forms to itself ideas of its own, by whose aid it may go beyond the sensible order in its search for truth.
Kant’s idea that we cannot arrive at truth without a sensible representation of it, cannot be pushed to a rational ultimate conclusion, as we have seen, therefore his philosophy is false. God has no sensible form or representation, and yet we can see Him in his works; therefore we know that He exists. Kant’s doctrine is simply foolish. The ultima ratio of his system is found in Fichte’s extravagant pantheism. This is asserted by Rosenkranz, an advanced thinker of the German infidel school; speaking of the Critik Her reinen Vernunft, he says: “ From these depths, the results of the transcendental aesthetics and logic receive a new importance in the great problems of theology, cosmology, morals, and psychology, which was not even suspected by the dull sense of the great part of its admirers. They know nothing of the chain which unites Fichte’s Doctrine of Science, Schelling’s System of Transcendental Idealism, Hegel’s Phenomenology and Logic, and Herbart’s Metaphysics with Kant’s Critique.... Fichte Schelling, Hegel and Herbart made this work the great centre of their operations for attack or defence.” We think the writer in The Virginia University Magazine was hardly prepared to be carried beyond the bounds of Christianity and into the wilds of Pantheism by Kant, but from the brief explanation given of some of the fundamental principles of that sophist he can hardly see to what lengths he would lead him. So ultra was he, indeed, that during his life the Protestant Government forbade hisspeaking at all upon the subject of religion. We hope our friend now sees the inconsistency of styling Kant a “ God-sent Rebuilder; ” if he is not fully satisfied, we assure him he. can set all doubt at rest by reading carefully the second volume of Balmes’ Fundamental Philosophy, which we have mainly followed in the above brief exposition.
New Publications.
—“The Chapel Choir Book”: T. B. Noonan & Co., Boston, is an excellent work. It is prefaced by some remarks on the art of singing. It contains Masses, Anthems, Chants and Hymns. There are two very good Masses for Sunday, and a Missa de Requiem. Of the Masses for Sunday, that in G Major is, in our opinion, the better, the music for accompaniment being of a solemn kind. The anthems, hymns, etc., are suited for almost any occasion during the ecclesiastical year. The Choir Book is one well adapted to the wants of church or chapel choirs. The retail price is $1.50. We learn that this book was published some twelve years ago by Mr. Donahoe, but the “big fire” destroyed the plates and caused it to be out of print until the appearance of the present revived and improved edition, which is in many respects superior to the first one. We recommend it to the favorable notice of directors of Catholic choirs.
—We are indebted to the’Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay street, New York, for a pamphlet entitled “The Catholic Church in the United States—Its Rise, Relations with the Republic, Growth, and Future Prospects. By Rev. I. T. Hecker. Double-column 8vo., 26 pp. Price, 10 cents.” The title and the name of the author should of themselves be enough to commend this brochure to the American reading public—to Catholics, for instruc-tion in matters with which every American Catholic should be acquainted; to non-Catholics, in order to understand and question some of the many grounds upon which the Catholic Church rests her claim to favorable consideration from a free and enlightened people, but also to see what the learned author—himself a convert to the Faith, and formerly, with Ripley, Dana and others, a member of the celebrated Brooke Farm Community—has to say in regard to the Church, upon mooted questions. We are also indebted to the same publishers for giving us in an English dress Gazeau’s excellent “ History of the Middle Ages,” price, $1.
—Vick’s Floral Guide for 1881 is a neat pamphlet of 112 pages of most interesting and instructive matter. Next to nature herself, Mr. Vick deserves the greatest gratitude
of the country for his great endeavors to beautify the land. Our botanists have done much to show that our country is enriched with some of the most beautiful forma of the wild children of Mother Flora, but Mr. Vick has certainly done more towards cultivating those forms, and bringing them out in a thousandfold variation, than any other man in the country. The cultivation of flowers is a mark of a nation’s advance in civilization; and in proportion as the taste for flowers is developed in a section of the country, so has that section advanced in civilization and refined culture. Do we ever find flower-pots on the window of the rude hut of the African or Indian? In what part of the country are flowers most cultivated? Answer this last question and you will tell us which portion of our country is the most civilized and cultured. What does a Caffre or a Hottentot care for flowers? Mr. Vick, then, by trying to spread the culture of flowers, is a great factor in the spreading of the signs of culture and refinement, and for this alone he more than merits the patronage and encouragement of a nation. We may forget the share of merit a florist deserves, in the pleasure he affords to millions. But besides this, is it not the florist that furnishes our tables with the choicest and healthiest articles of food? Mr. Vick has afforded us great pleasure by sending us his Floral Guide, a copy of which may be had for a mere trifle —10 cents. His address is: James Vick, Rochester, N. Y. Familiar Instructions on the Commandments or God . and the Church. By a Catholic Priest. Boston: Thoa. B.
Noonan & Cj., 17,19,21 Boylston street 1880. 167 pp. 32mo., cloth.
The title of this little book is enough to convey an idea of what it is; the only question to be settled is the manner in which the various subjects are dealt with. They are treated as simply as possible, and clearly, at somewhat greater length than in the Little Catechism, by one who not only knows of what he is speaking, but who is also able to explain his meaning in faultless English. The following are the heads under which he writes: The Ten Commandments: 1. Worship of God. 2. Reverence of God’s Name. 3. Keeping the Sabbath. 4. Duties to Parents and Superiors. 5. Thou shalt not Kill. 6 and 9. Purity of Actions and Thoughts. 7 and 10. Rights of Property. 8. Rights of Character. Commandments of the Church: 1. Hearing Mass. 2. Fasting. 3. Confession. 4. Communion. 5. Support of the Church. 6. Matrimony. Examen of Conscience. There might possibly be an objection to the writer’s manner of introducing the day of rest; the Sabbath is commanded to be kept holy in the third commandment, but Christians no longer keep holy the Sabbath or seventh day,—Sunday, or the first day of the week, being substituted for the Sabbath by apostolic authority. The custom of terming Sunday the Sabbath, or seventh day, is not a correct one, strictly 8[>eaking, and there is no authority for so terming it. A Christian reader can, and should be able to, explain satisfactorily why Sunday takes the place of the Sabbath under the new dispensation, but no one can give a satisfactory reason why Sunday, or the frst day of the week, should be called the Sabbath or seventh day of the week. The author of “Familiar Instructions” certainly explains in a clear and lucid manner, as he does everything else of which he treats, why the Lord’s day was transferred from the seventh to the first day of the week, but we do not like even the appearance of a compromise with a false custom that has crept in among our non-Catholic brethren of calling Sunday the Sabbath. The custom will not bear critical examination. As far as simple names go, the Jewish Sabbath is the seventh day, or Saturday, and Saturday is still called by this title in most of the European languages, while Sunday is always the first day of the week. When the Ro-mans became Christians they learned to call Sunday the Lord’s Day—Dies Dominicus; and so in France, Italy and Spain, the word is still Dimanche, Domenico, Domingo. The day before Sunday was called instead of Saturn’s day, the Sabbath—a fact which will seem surprising to those who do not know how modern is the notion which confounds the Christian “ Lord’s Day” with the Jewish Sabbath. In Spain and Portugal the name is Sabado, in Italian Sabbato, and in French, because the ancestors of the French people pronounced the word Sabbaihum as Sambatum, the name of Saturday is Samedi.
280
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, January 23. 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fourteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support ot the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the -whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence iu class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a nbacriber fail, to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by rending u, notice Immediately, each time. Thore who may have mined a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volnme for binding, can have back numbers of the current volnme by applying for them. In all such cares, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—The Americans are a people who devote no small time to reading. The immense amount of information which they obtain, as a consequence, on almost every subject is incalculable. As students we are constantly reading with a view to storing our minds, while at college, with a mine of practical knowledge, from which we will be able at any time in practical life—that is, when we have left the comparative seclusion of our collegehalls, to engage in the battle of life—to draw, as from a fountain, thoughts and facts which will constantly come up for consideration in our intercourse, social or otherwise, with our fellow-men. The benefits to be derived from a proper course of good reading are so numerous that our limited space will permit us to enumerate but a few of them. Of the infinite number of subjects which may daily present themselves to us for discussion or consideration, there are none with which we can become thoroughly conversant without studying them up, to do which, reading is a necessity. Undoubtedly, some may, and do learn, by mingling and conversing with erudite people. But when we remember that this is an opportunity afforded to the few, we readily perceive that this method of acquiring a know), edge is comparatively insignificant. True, association with people of mental culture and refinement cannot but be productive of intellectual improvement, or at least of a taste or desire for it; but when compared with that derived from the careful perusal of even one good book on some important subject, such results, however satisfactory to the individual, dwindle into insignificance. By passing hours in conversation with one well versed in the sciences, for instance, we may, perhaps, obtain a ray of that bril-liancy which would shine upon us in its fulness did we but read the works which contain not only this single ray, but thousands of others, the whole light of science. Such
an individual’s vast scientific resources cannot but excite our admiration—our envy too, perhaps; but both of these will give way to emulative sentiments in knowing that this knowledge was acquired by this individual’s close application to study—to the reading of scientific works. Take our every-day intercourse with our fellow students .-do we as a rule talk of matters calculated to improve us intellectually ? out of the daily routine of the class-room, do we generally open a conversation with our professors pertinent to a like object? A negative response must be given to both questions.
The same reply must be given, if we ask ourselves whether attendance at a course of lectures on any particular subject or subjects, would make us thoroughly acquainted with them. If we listen to a lecture on astronomy, for example', can we conclude that we are masters of that science? We may, undoubtedly, have treasured away many facts pertaining to the science, which have been laid before us by the lecturer; but to say that we had become astronomers by listening to a few words on the subject, however weighty and worthy of consideration they might have been, would be idiocy. Shakespeare’s immortal works, and the no less lasting works of Milton, might be spoken of in our presence repeatedly; but what would the paltry ideas obtained in conversation on these writings amount to when compared with those consequent upon their careful perusal ? By carefully reading philosophical treatises we become imbued with philosophical principles; by carefully reading books on scientific subjects we become familiar with science; by reading, and by it alone, can we become acquainted with the beauties of poetry; and so for every other branch of knowledge,—we learn as we read.
Having established the necessity, and shown the advantages, of a' course of reading, let us say a word as to how we should read. There is nothing in the reading of a work unless we understand it. To understand what we are reading, it is necessary that we give our undivided attention to the subject, not running through it for the sole purpose of having the satisfaction of having read it, but reading slowly, digesting every word in each successive sentence, and never allowing a word to pass without knowing its exact meaning; for it is only by so doing we will become capable of entering fully into the sentiments which the writer wishes to have conveyed.
“One book well known,” says a prominent English scholar, “ is worth a whole library skimmed over.” The memory, too, must do its part; we must endeavor to remember everything we read. “ Become thoroughly a master of that faculty ” (we may), said a well-known lecturer a few nights ago, “and you will find it a willing, a faithful, and an invaluable servant.” Useless indeed would be the time spent in reading up a subject, no matter how important, did our memory fail to retain the substance of what we have read. Let each one resolve, then, to adopt a regular course of reading, for in itis to be found the only sure road to the acquisition of a sound and thorough education.
—There can be no doubt but that the present attempt of the German Government to proscribe or ostracize its Jewish subjects is both cruel, uncalled for, and unjustifiable. But it is no more than might be reasonably expected from a Government which, completely ignoring the rights of its subjects, compelled thousands of them to undergo a cruel persecution for no other reason than that they wer
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	281
Catholics—men who felt bound in conscience to live up to the teachings of their Church. That the Catholic Church is the true and untiring advocate of civil and religious freedom cannot be better demonstrated than in the action of her members, who, true to the principles of their faith, are the first to lift up their voice in protestation against the tyrannically oppressive measures now employed by the German Government in its base endeavor to ostracize an industrious, respectable, wealthy, ( and law-abiding people. We cannot refrain from publishing the following excerpt from an editorial which ' appeared in the Central Catholic Advocate of the 6th । inst., as it bears on the subject under consideration, and I gives the facts in the case in an intelligent and comprehensive way, declaring in a forcible manner the motives which prompt the Church in her opposition to the proscriptive measures now being employed by the German Government against its Jewish subjects:
“ In the present anti-Jewish agitation in Germany, whereby the Government is seeking to ostracize and persecute the Jews, it ia remarkable that the foremost opponent—in fact, the only organized opposition—to this proscriptive measure, is the Centre (Catholic) party; notwithstanding the fact that the Jews, by the influence which their wealth, if not their numbers, give them, have generally sustained and aided the Kulturkampf, ‘ under which the ^Catholics have suffered such injustice and persecution. Thus it cannot be any feeling of gratitude which i	prompts the Catholics of Germany to oppose and protest against
I	the persecution of the Jews, but simply their devotion to the
f	principles of justice and liberty of conscience.
“ To the non-Catholic, who has been taught to regard the Catholic Church as the inveterate and persistent foe of religious liberty, the unrelenting persecutor of all who differ from her teachings or refuse to recognize her commands, the action of the German Catholics must appear strange and unaccountable; for, that Catholics have any regard for principles of right and justice beyond what concerns their own denomination, is contrary to his view of the Catholic Church. To his mind, liberty and Catholicity are incompatible; it is impossible for them to co-exist, unless the Church is held in restraint. He is firm in the belief that liberty dates from the time of the Reformation, and !	hence it is only where Protestantism is in control that liberty
exists; if Catholicity attains the ascendancy, liberty perishes. The long and unwearied contest of the German Catholics against the Kulturkampf, though he may have approved their course, only appeared to him to be the natural course they should pursue in defence of their rights and the rights of their Church. But the earnest advocacy of the German Catholics in behalf of the Jews, who were among the upholders of the Kulturkampf, must set him to seeking for some other cause for their action than that of self-interest.
“If he is a thinking and unprejudiced man, he will investigate, and can come to but one conclusion—that the German Catholics are but following the principles and teachings of the Catholic Church in opposing proscription, and advocating t liberty of conscience—contrary to what he had always believed
' to be the principles and teachings of the Church; that the liberty of conscience is of Catholic origin, and was first fulminated by a Catholic Government; that Republics were defended and protected under the fostering wings of the Church ; that ! the Government of the United States—to which all non-Cath-ollcs refer as the most liberal—is based upon principles notnew, but really only copied from Catholic republics and Catholic laws.
“Then he can arrive at the solution of the problem of the course pursued by the German Catholics on the anti-Jewish question. The animosities which had naturally arisen during the long struggle against the Kulturkampf which still oppresses the Catholics, the differences of race are forgotten, and the German Catholics present a solid front against the anti-
Jewish law, just as they have against the Kulturkampf, because it is unjust and a violation of the liberty of conscience, one of the fundamental principles of Catholic teaching, and which they have been taught by the Church to cherish and hold sacred.”	’
These, then, are the motives which indace Catholic Germany to extend the hand of sympathy to the unlawfully persecuted Jews of that empire. The Chicago Tribune of the fifteenth instant says that the anti-Jewish agitation is rapidly spreading throughout the empire. It has already extended to Bavaria and Saxony. Large antiIsraelite meetings were held last week in Berlin and Leipsic. The petition to Bismarck against the Jews has up to date received over forty thousand signatures. From this we readily infer that Protestant Germany is resolved to do all in its power to rid Itself of what it styles its “ hated element.” When the matter came up before the Reichstag in Berlin, it was asserted that, could no other cause be found, their personal peculiarities would alone be sufflcient to exclude the Jews from equal rights with the Christians. This ridiculous distinction is most unchristian and silly. Every man has his personal peculiarities; the same is true of every nation.. As the charity of a man is best shown by putting up with the peculiarities or the idiosyncrasies of his fellow-man, so is the charity of a nation evinced in tolerating the peculiar habits or characteristic peculiarities of a portion of its inhabitants, provided they, in no way, interfere with the civil, social, or moral order of the Government. And such, as far as we can learn, is the case with the Jewish element of the German Empire. The same motives which but a short time since prompted the Protestant element of Germany in its efforts to drive Catholicity from German soil, and in which it has so signally failed, are the very ones which now prompt that same Government in its-attempt at ostracizing the Jews. Catholics were persecuted because they were Catholics—the Jews are persecuted for a similar reason. Here in our own free land we find the Jews not a whit inferior to their Christian brethren. They molest nobody. We find them a thrifty, industrious, and wealthy people. In the commercial sphere we find them equalling the representatives of any nationality or creed; socially, they are as agreeable and entertaining; intellectually, as far as we are capable of judging—and we base our assertion in this respect on personal observation—they stand on a level with the best.
At a time within the memory of all our readers, when the managers of a fashionable and popular summer resort in the East resolved to exclude Jews from that place, the voice of the press, indignant at the then proposed outrage, made itself heard in rather uncomplimentary terms to the instigators of the shameful measure, throughout the length and breadth of this great Republic. It was a just indignation, and taught a lesson to the lord of Coney Island which, we trust, he will not soon forget. In the fine arts, the Jews hold no unenviable position. In musical art, the American Ari Journal informs us that the talented Jewish race of no mean degree is constantly at work contributing in composition and performance to foster and develop it. Although the Jewish religion is in many essential points different from that which we profess, we will not—nay, cannot on principle—refrain from condemning the present course of the German Government towards them, a course uncalled for, unjust and unlawful.

282
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—On the 8th inst., President Corby received the sad intelligence that Col. William Marshall Anderson, father of Robert M. Anderson, of the Senior department, was no more. He died at his residence in Circleville, Ohio, on Friday, 7th inst., about 2 o’clock p. m. Col. Anderson, as we learn from the Circleville press, belonged to an historic family distinguished in this country, and especially in the West. His father, Richard Clough Anderson, a native of Hanover County, Va., served with great gallantry in the Revolutionary War. His military career was a brilliant one, and he rose to the grade of Lieutenant-Colonel. He was present at many of the leading battles, commanding the reconnois-sance which brought on the battle of Trenton, where he received a dangerous wound. He was at Brandywine and Germantown, and at the capture by the English of Fort Sumpter (where, nearly eighty years afterward, his loyal son, Major Robert Anderson, after a gallant defence, was forced to yield to rebel guns), was taken prisoner, and suffered in a prison for over nine months. After his release, he served as a staff-officer with General Lafayette, with the rank of Major, and was present at the surrender of Lord Cornwallis at Yorktown, having during the brilliant campaign, which ended in that great victory, gained promotion to the grade of Lieutenant-Colonel, and been rewarded with the rank of Brigadier-General of Virginia Militia. In 1783, he was chosen by his brother offisers and appointed by the Virginia Legislature Surveyor-General of the lands reserved for the Virginia continental line, and known as the Virginia Military District, which position he held until his death in 1826, at the age of 76 years. He was a member of the first Electoral College in Kentucky, at the time of Washington’s second election, and several times a member of the Kentucky Legislature, He was twice married, first to Elizabeth Clark, a sister of General George Rogers Clark, who was conspicuously prominent in the conquest and settlement of the States of Kentucky, Ohio and Indiana, and a famous Indian fighter. By this wife he had five children, one of whom was Richard Clough Anderson, one of the most brilliant men Kentucky ever produced, serving in the Legislature, in Congress from 1817 to 1821, and as Minister to Bogota, where he died in 1826. His second wife was Sarah Marshall, of the illustrious Marshall family of Virginia and Kentucky, by whom he had twelve children—Mrs. Maria Latham, of Cincinnati, widow of the late Allan Latham, formerly of Chillicothe; Larz. Anderson, of Cincinnati, who died in 1878; Gen. Robert Anderson, who was in command of Fort Sumpter, when the Civil War began; William Marshall Anderson; Mrs. Judge Hall, who resides near Cincinnati; John Anderson, who was Sheriff of Ross County, and died in 1863; Charles Anderson, of Eddyville, Ky., exGovernor of Ohio, and Mrs. Sarah J. Kendrick, of Cincinnati.
“William Marshall Anderson,” says the Democrat and Watchman, the official paper of the city, “ was born at a place known as ‘The Soldiers’ Retreat,’ in Jefferson Co., Ky., near Louisville, June 24th, 1807. When a boy, he came with his sister, Mrs. Latham, to Chillicothe, where he attended school, and one of his schoolmates was the late Governor William Allan. Returning to Kentucky he received a classical education at the Transylvania University, at Lexington, subsequently studied law, was admitted to the bar, and for a few years practiced with his brother, Larz, in Louisville. In 1834, his health becoming impaired, he made a tour to the.Rocky Mountains, with Lieu
tenant Sublett, of St. Louis. He was married to Eliza A. McArthur, daughter of Gov. Duncan McArthur, February 16, 1835. After a year’s residence at Louisville, they removed to Chillicothe, and Gov. McArthur’s health having broken down, Mr. Anderson managed his affairs until his death three years after. Their home was at ‘ Glen Mary,’ adjacent to Chillicothe, until 1853, when they came to Circleville, and a year or more thereafter removed to the Seven Oaks where Mrs. Anderson died September 2d, 1855. She was the mother of ten children, of whom six died in infancy and childhood, and four survive, viz.: Col. Thomas M. Anderson, U. S. A., stationed Fort McKinney, Wyoming Territory; Lieut. Harry R. Anderson, U. S. A, now in California; Mary, wife of Judge Joseph Olds, of Columbus, and Dr. Charles Anderson, connected with the Medical Department of the Army, and stationed in Wyoming Territory. On the 21st of April, 1857, Mr. Anderson was again married to Miss Ellen C. Ryan, of Urbana, O., who survives, with one child, Robert M. Anderson, three other children having died in infancy.
In the spring of 1865, Mr. Anderson made a trip to Mexico, and remained there two years. He made a scientific tour of part of the country, had many perilous adventures, narrowly escaped Mexican assassins, and on his journey home was seized with yellow fever, which came near resulting fatally. During his absence, his family removed to Circleville, where they have since resided.
The profession of law was not congenial to Mr. Anderson, and he abandoned it for other pursuits. He was literary in his tastes, an accomplished scholar, a great reader, conversant with the best authors, a good linguist, speaking the French and Spanish languages fluently, and possessed one of the best selected private libraries in the country comprising many rare works. He was an art connoisseur, and an antiquarian, with a choice collection of relics, curiosities and minerals. He was a great lover of the beautiful in nature, familiar with ornithology, botany, horticulture and floriculture.
Mr. Anderson was never ambitious for political preferment, and refused positions of importance, only once consenting to be a candidate for a political office—for State Senator in the Ross district. He served as Surveyor-General for a while after the death of his father. He was a member and President of the Board of Education of Circleville from 1867 to 1870, and 1874 to 1876, in which capacity he devoted much time and attention, and was greatly interested in the welfare of the schools. He also manifested special interest in the Circleville Public Library, was one of the managers, and President of the Board for several years. He favored every necessary improvement for the public good, and aided as far as in his power all projects for the advancement of the community.
He was converted to the Catholic religion in 1838, and continued earnest and devout in the faith, receiving the last Sacraments of the Church a few days previous to his death.
Marshall Anderson was a polished, chivalrous gentleman at all times and places, and in his domestic and social relations, was kind, hospitable and generous. He was a man of strict integrity, and lived a blameless life. He was a genial companion, a charming conversationalist, possessed of a vast fund of information on all subjects, rich in reminiscences and anecdotes, and always entertaining. Affable and pleasant to every one, high or low, young or old, he enjoyed the respect and esteem of an unlimited
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	[283
number of friends and acquaintances, and his death is sincerely lamented by all.
The obsequies took place at St. Joseph’s Church, Tues, day morning last, commencing at 10% o’clock, attended with the most solemn and impressive ceremonies. First, j Requiem Mass, Rev. A. O. Walker, officiating, followed by a brief review of the life of the deceased, and a fitting eulogy upon his character as a just man, and consistent Christian, by Father Walker. Then Bishop Watterson, of Columbus diocese, delivered the discourse, which was eloquent, forcible and beautiful. The remains were deposited in the Mortuary vault at Forest Cemetery to await final interment. The pall-bearers were Messrs. Edward Smith, William Doane, Joseph P. Smith, P. H. Delaplane, Jas. H. Lynch and George H. Lutz, all intimate friends of the deceased. There was a large concourse of people at the church, embracing all classes and creeds.”
The President, Faculty and students of the University extend Mr. Robert M. Anderson, and the other relatives of the deceased, their heartfelt sympathy and condolence in this their sad bereavement.

Local Items.
—“ Try that ferret.”
—Excellent sleighing.
—Did you see our “ den ” ?
—Heavy snow-storm last Saturday.
—Good hand-ballists among the Seniors.
—Give us more of that rye bread, Mr. Baker.
—When are we to have a sleighing excursion ?
—“ Say, don’t you think we’d better cheese it? ”
—“ Duzin ” does not always feel that way inclined.
—Mr. Snow has again made skating anything but a pleasure.
—Has the N. D. U. C. Band been buried in the grave of oblivion ?	’
—Bro. Paul, C. S. C., has our thanks for favors during the past week.
—A musical quartette is one of the latest “ get ups ” at Mt. St. Vincent.
—A few of our friends had a pleasant time in our “ den” Sunday evening.
—Our friend John Edmund Augustus^objects to taking medicine every night.
—Bro. Alexander reports a large attendance and good work in his arithmetic classes.
—“ Prof.-----s is a shining example to young men of
nicotian propensities ” E. R. (ror).
—Master A. Coghlin has our warmest thanks for a box of “ Old Judges.” They’re immense.
—“ Lend us your ear ” is the way one of our Seniors requests the attention of a comrade.
—Bro. John Matha spends his leisure hours in teaching the boys how to make prayer-beads.
—At last! Hurrah! The snow-plow visited Mt. St. Vincent, and now those on the Mount rejoice.
—We are informed that the Thespians will mount the boards with “ William Tell ” on Washington’s Birthday.
—We have our opinion of a man that will stand talking with a lamp-post for fifteen minutes before he discovers his mistake.
—Sancho, Neptune, Pluto, Fearless, Tweeger Jack and Rover are the best set of canines in Indiana. They always set for “ grub.”
—“Ladies and Gentlemen,” is a good way to commence
addressing a body of young gentlemen. For farther particulars, see “ Plato.”
. —Trains on the M. C. R. R, were several hours behind time last week. Cold weather and snow are responsible for this dilatoriness. . .
—Our friend from the “land of cotton” has a pair of new shoes. He knows it—so do all who see him perambulating our classic halls.
—The Vocal Music Classes are numerously attended by Minims, Juniors, and Seniors. The rehearsals are said to be spirited and entertaining.
—Our friend John says, that the best music he ever listened to was that played by a quartette of nine pieces. Send us another local, John.
—At the last meeting of the Academia, Mr. W. Arnold was elected to the office of Secretary, made vacant by the resignation of Mr. P. J. Hagan.
—Are the Societies asleep, or have they not yet recovered from the effects of turkey-eating, and New Year’s calls ? Come now, wake up, and get to work.
—“ When will we have another soiree (eye) ? ” said our friend John to the Corporal. “Don’t know,” replied he of martial name; “had two very sore ones during the holidays.”
—Last Sunday’s singing was the best of the year. Let all take part to-morrow and see if we cannot do still better. We would suggest that the organ accompaniment be somewhat stronger than it usually is.
—Professor Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, South Bend, has just published the Scholastic Annual for 1881. It contains much useful information, both meteorological and historical.—Chicago Times.	.
—Lo! the poor rabbit! Failing to exterminate him by gunning and trapping, our Nimrods have procured the services of a Mr. Ferret, who has the reputation of being an expert in catching these timid but wary creatures.
—Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, has written a drama entitled “New Arts.” It was written for one of the literary societies of the university of Notre Dame, and is said to contain no small merit.—Emerald.	-
—We have missed “Songs for Three Female Voices” and “ The Catholic Hymn Book ” from our sanctum. The person or persons in possession of said books will confer a favor on us by returning them to the Scholastic Office as soon as possible.
—Rev. Father L’Etourneau has ever shown himself to be the friend of the down-trodden and the oppressed,—that’s why he called at the office last Saturday and regaled the printers and editors with some good apples. Thanks, Father; call again.
—To-morrow, the Feast of the Espousals of the B. V. M., Missa Paroulorum will be sung. The Vespers are the same as on the Feast of the Nativity of the B. V. M., p. 190 of the Vesperal, instead of page 64, as erroneously indicated in the book.
—“ We have no snow to cover the ice and prevent us from enjoying a skate down our way,” said a youthful “Prep.” from the South. “Nor have you any ice there to become covered with snow,” said a young Buckeye. (They look sharply at each other and separate.)
—The examinations, which commence next Thursday, are a very important college exercise, and will give each student an idea of just about how much he has neglected to learn in class during the present session. We shall speak more at length on this subject in our next.
—Master Albert Gall, Prep, department, presented us with something, last Saturday, which is both handsome, serviceable, and costly. We do not propose letting everybody know what it is; suffice it to say, that we prize it very highly, and return the giver our most cordial thanks.
—The Tribune has just received the Scholastic Annual for 1881, published by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame. It is as usual an excellent compilation, embracing many matters not merely of interest to the Catholic, but to the general reader.—Chicago Tribune.
—Why cannot the snow-plow be used on either or both
284	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the lakes for a few hours to remove the snow which now covers the ice, thereby preventing us from enjoying the best and healthiest of all winter-sports? The snow is not so deep as to make its removal by the snow-plow impracticable,—then why not do it?
—Seventeen Preps, accompanied by Bro. Lawrence, passed by our “ den ” last Sunday afternoon. Manning, with his ferret, was one of the party! and, as may have already occurred to your minds, a rabbit-hunt was in progress. So, to make a long story short, they went: and returned with several rabbits—to get.
—Manning’s ferret has brought joy to the hearts of our enthusiastic Nimrods, and delicious meats to their tables; but who can tell the grief and vexation that fill the canine souls of Sancho, Neptune and Pluto as their olfactories make them aware of the existence of a ferret which they would wish to annihilate, but cannot, dare not ?
—The 12th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Pbil-opatrian Society was held Jan. 14th. Master A. Scbmil was elected Recording Secretary; Master A. Browne, Corresponding Secretary; G. Woodson, Marshal; and Master J. Flynn, Sergeant-at-Arms. Declamations were delivered by A. Schmil, F. Wheatley, F. Prenatt, G. Woodson and H. Devitt.
—Master Fred Farrelly, Minim department, is a very young boy, but he already possesses one of those qualities found in men of worth—honesty. He found a purse containing a sum of money, last Sunday afternoon, and very promptly placed it in possession of the proper authority. Qualities like these, when observed in a boy so young, augur well for the man, for we know that the boy is father to the man.
—The trees were covered with a crystal foliage, last Wednesday morning, the beauty of which was enhanced when the King of day, lighting up a cloudless sky, cast its brilliant rays upon the crystallized trees, causing them to sparkle like diamonds in the sunshine; while the seven colors of the rainbow were as clear and beautiful as they appear after a heavy thunder-storm, on a sultry afternoon iu summer, when the arch is stretched from horizon to horizon.
—We have received two solutions to the mathematical problem contained in our last issue. That given by“W. C.,” Prep, department, is incorrect—although he would fain not believe so. “ B. P.” of South Bend worked the example properly, and obtained the correct answer; but as we offered the basket of apples to the student who would give us the correct answer, “ B. P.,” not being a student, cannot, of course, expect us to comply with his request: “ Send on those apples.”
—Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, has since the last General Council of the Congregation fixed upon Notre Dame, Ind., as his headquarters, thus making the institution at Notre Dame the Mother-House of the Order. Father Sorin is a fine old gentleman, nearly seventy years of age, who by his indefatigable zeal has changed a vast wilderness into one of the most picturesque spots in the United States.—Emerald (Chicago).
—Captain Cox informs us that a hundred cadet guns are on their way hither. When they arrive, military tactics will again receive their store of attention. The boys are all anxious to begin military operations; and when, soon again
“ The old Continent ials
Appear in regimentals,”
the now quiet and forlorn-looking groves of Notre Dame will resound with artillery’s rattling roar, and the earth tremble 'neath the measured tread of steel-clad foemen, or words to that effect. Since the above was inserted, the guns have arrived.
—Prof. J. A. Lyons’ Scholastic Annual for 1881 has been received, and a run through its seventy-six pages convinces us that the publication is not retrograding, but rather progressing, and each year the Professor is devoting more and closer attention to making the Annual a valuable reference book of priest, layman and the unregenerate. In addition to the Church Calendars the work contains considerable reading-matter of interest, including literary pro
ductions that reflect great credit upon it. The book is issued from the Notre Dame Scholastic press, and can be obtained by inclosing 25 cents to the authoi, at Notre Dame.—South-Bend Register.
—Prof. Stace, so well and favorably known at Notre Dame, has been heard from in the far West. The following, clipped from the South Bend Register, will be of interest to his many friends le-eabouts. “County Clerk Howard received, this morning, from Sedalia, Mo., a postalcard containing the following poetic message: * The January thaw has come, the sloppiest of the year. Perhaps it has not reached you yet, but we have got it here; and when you get it I suppose you’ll want the engineer. 88, therefore, I am on my way and shortly shall appear.’ Of course, though bearing no signature, it was from Prof. Stace, who is down there looking alter his land.’ ”
—The 16th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held Jan. 18th. W. Gray was unanimously elected a member. A debate, Resolved “That Capital Punishment Should be Abolished,” then took place. The affirmative was sustained by J. O’Neill, F. Grever, R. Fleming, F. Quinn and J. Guthrie. The negative was defended bv C Tinley, E .Orrick, J. Homan, W. Cleary, C. McDermott and N. Ewing. The decision was given in favor of the negative. The debate was a very exciting one, Masters Orrick and O’Neill making the best speeches. Public readers for this week are as follows: J. Fendrick, G. Rhodlus, A. Coghlin, F. Grever, C. Tinley and J. Morgan.
—Do not imagine that we are in the least conceited or egotistic when we say that we had always prided ourselves on having a good ear for music until last Friday morning, when an unexpected occurrence caused us to think differently about that ear. As we were walking towards Mt. St. Vincent our ear, the musical one, was greeted with a sensation produced by the vibrations of the air (commonly called a sound) which we thought proceeded from the silvery throat of a trumpet. Imagine what we now think of that musical ear, when on looking in the direction whence the sound proceeded, we found that what to us seemed to be the voice of a trumpet was naught save a cry for oil 'from the new wind mill which was recently erected, by Perkins, of Mishawaka, at the College stables. We don’t wish any one to speak to us of music for the next five months.
—As every state in the Union is represented here by one or more delegates, it may not be out of place to see what they call us at home. Here, in Indiana, we are called “ Hoosiers.” The inhabitants of Alabama are called “Lizards”; of Arkansas, “Toothpicks”; of California, “ Gold Hunters ”; of Colorado, “ Rovers ”; of Connecticut, “ Wooden Nutmegs” of Delaware, “ Muskrats”; of Florida, Fly-up the-Creeks ”; of Georgia, “ Buzzards ”; of Illinois, “ Suckers ”; of Iowa, “ Hawkeyes ”; of Kansas, “Jayhawkers”; of Kentucky, “Corn Crackers”; of Louisiana, “Creoles”; of Maine, “Foxes”; of Maryland, “Craw Thumpers”; of Michigan, “ Wolverines ”; ofMin-nisota, “Gophers”; of Mississippi, “Tadpoles”; of Missouri, “ Pukes ”; of Nebraska, “ Bug Eaters ”; of Nevada, "Sage Hens”; of New Hampshire, “Granite Boys”; of New Jersey, “Blues,” or “Clam Catchers”; of New York, “Knickerbockers”; of North Carolina, “Tar-Boilers” and Tuckoes”; of Ohio, Buckeyes ”; of Oregon, “Webfeet’’and “Hard Cases”; of Pennsylvania, “Penances and “Leatherheads”; of Rhode Island, “Gun Flints ”; of South Carolina, “ Weasels ”; of Tennessee, “ Whelps ”; of Texas, “ Beef Heads ”; of Vermont, “ Green Mountain Boys”; of Virginia, “Beadles”; of Wisconsin, “ Badgers.”
—We are pleased to learn that the rules in Very Rev. Father General’s play, “ New Arts,” have already been assigned. The first rehearsal will take place to-morrow afternoon and the play will be brought out during-PTami. nation week. “New Arts” is a timely production, which, like everything eke that comes from the pen of its venerable author, not only has a good object in view, but also carries it out in a most pleasing and satisfactory manner It is intended to call the attention of students to certain points of etiquette, the importance of which many young men are apt to overlook. They are informed with as
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
285
much neatness as truth during the course of the drama that “,'a scholar without manners is a man to be shut up in a corner of a library ”; and if the lessons which the Very Rev. author so skilfully teaches are only remembered, and put in practice, very few of the students of Notre Dame will be doomed to such seclusion. The dialogue is smooth, polished, and flowing; the illustrations are always happily —and often even wittily—put, and the incidents so closely interwoven that the interest is sustained throughout the three acts of the drama. Didactic plays, as well as poems are, as a rule, voted dry and uninteresting; but in the present instance the teacher so carefully disguises himself, and his instruction is so skilfully imparted, that actors and audience will probably not notice that a lesson is being taught them, till they perceive themselves in possession of much valuable information. We await with interest the first public production of “New Art«,” and we bespeak for it a hearty welcome.
—He was care worn and shabby looking. He stood gazing at our sanctum, listening to the hissing .of steam and the noise of the machinery in our press-room. At length he cautiously approached our door, tremblingly tapped and entered. He said that he lived four miles from the St. Joe Farm, and had seen a copy of the Scholastic in which we had said something about our “ devil.” He had come all the way to ascertain whether or not we had a devil in the establishment. We said we had, and requested him to be seated for a moment, when we would usher his satanic majesty into his presence. He sat, and began to give exterior signs of a violent chill. Our devil, we informed him, was in the basement, but we would bring him from the infernal regions in a minute. We went, told our “ devil ” of his visitor up stairs, and were rapidly ascending the basement steps in company with his majesty, who was emitting unearthly howls and sepulchral groans, when we heard three or four chairs tumble on the floor and the door close with a thunder-like bang. We were just in time to see the well-worn soles of a pair of brogands beat a hasty retreat around the north corner of our office in the direction of St. Joseph’s Lake. We don’t suppose the fellow committed suicide by drowning, as the lake is covered with ice about twelve inches thick; but on righting chairs, papers, mucilage bottles, etc., which the man from the country had upset in his hasty exit, we found a well-tattered hat, about lour ounces of doughy chewing tobacco, a highly-colored handkerchief, and an old clay pipe, all of which await the re-appearance of their owner.
—The South-Bend Tribune, 16th inst., had the following to say of good Bro. Peter, who calmly expired at 7:30 a. m., Monday last: “ There are few people who have visited Notre Dame within the past quarter of a century that had not seen the cheerful face of the venerable Brother Peter, who took such great pleasure in chaperoning visitors. Brother Peter will be seen no more. He passed to his final reward this morning, succumbing to the infirmities of old age. He will be buried to-morrow forenoon at 10 o’clock. Brother Peter was born in Dublin, Ireland, and came to this country when a boy. He was known to the world as John Fitzpatrick, and was at one time a prominent and very successful merchant at Goshen, this State. Death robbed him of his family, and in 1856 he disposed of his business and entered the Brotherhood at Notre Dime, where he has ever since remained. He was a great favorite, not only with the faculty and students at the University, but with those who frequently visited Notre Dame. No one better knew how to conduct visitors about the extensive grounds and buildings, and his suave manners charmed every one, while his earnest interest in the affairs of Notre Dame impressed all. Brother Peter was for many years assistant post-master at Notre Dame and discharged his trusts there with the greatest satisfaction. He was born in 1807, and was consequently at the time of his death in his 74th year. His demise will be heard of with feelings of regret by the old students and visitors at Notre Dame.” Brother Peter has gone; but his memory will be ever fresh in the minds of those who knew him. He has gone to receive that reward for which 24 years passed in the practice of every religious virtue so well fitted him. May he rest in peace.
Semi-Annual Examination, Jan. 27th, 1881.
Committees of Examination, under the Genebal Supervision of Very Rev. President Corby.
Classical Board—Very Rev. W. Corby, presiding; Rev. J. A. O’Connell, Rev. N. J. Stoffel, Secretary; Rev.P. Kol-Jop, Rev. J. Verdin; Prof. Unsworth, Prof. Coleman, Prof. Lyons; Rev. T. McNamara.
Scientific Board—Rev. J. A. Zahm, presiding; Rev. A. M. Kirsch, Rev. D. J. Hagerty; Prof. Devoto, Secretary ; Prof. McCue.
■ Commercial Board—Rev. T. E Walsh, presiding; Prof. Tong, Prof. Lyons, Prof. Edward”, Secretary; Bro. Philip Neri; Mr. D. B. Toomey.
Preparatory Board—Rev. P. W. Condon, presiding; Mr. M. Regan, Secretary; Mr. J. Crumley; Bro. Alexander, Bro. Albert, Bro. Leander, Bro. Paul, Bro. Emmanuel, Bro. Raphael, Bro. Modestus, Bro. Ulrich.
Board of Modern Languages—Rev. N. J. Stoffel, presiding; Rev. P. Kollop, Rev. J. Verdin; Bro. Philip, Bro. Modestus, Bro. Ulrich.
Board of Fine Arts—Very Rev. W. Corby, presiding; Bro. Basil, Bro. Leopold, Bro. Albert; Prof. Paul, Prof. Bauer.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have, by their exemplary conduct, given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
senior department.
R. C. Adams, W. H. Arnold, W. J. Brown, J. F. Brown, C. A. Brehmer, F. W. Bloom, F. M. Bell, A A Bodine, T. P. Byrne, G. E. Clarke, L. F. Callagari, L- E. Clements, F. T. Dever, J. D. Delaney, D. English, B. Eaton, M. L. Falvey, J. M. Falvey, W. P. Fishburn, G. L. Hagan, M. Healey, W. 8. Hui-dleston, W. E. Hoffman, W. R. Young, D. A Harrington, W. Johnson, W. Kelly, A Korty, T. Kavanaugh, F. E. Kuhn, R. Le Bourgeois, W. B. McGorrisk, W. J. McCarthy, J. A McNamara, L. Mathers, J. A McIntyre, J. R. Marlett, J. J. Mc-Erlain, J. J. Malone, M. J. Mclnery, J. C. Newman, H. H. Noble, H. O’Donnell, J. O’Reilly, E. A Otis, J. N. Osher, A. Pimyotahmah, E. Piper, L. M. Proctor, D. R. Phelps, J. I. Redmond, D. Ryan, J. Solon, F. C. Smith, J. S. Smith,, H. A Steis, P. D. Stretch, G. Sugg, E. G. Sugg. H. C. Simms, B. F. Smith, L. M. Stitzel, W. Schoelfield, R. J. Seeberger, A Thornton, C. H. Thiele, E. G. Taggart, S. P. Terry, G. 8. Tracey, C. Van Dusen, A. Zahm, J. B. Zettler.
F.	Garrity’s name was omitted from last week’s Roll of Honor through mistake.
junior department.
Alfred Bodine, A. W. Ayers. A A. Brown, C. J. Brinkman, V. G. Butler, W. H. Barron, G. C. Castanedo, A M. Coghlin, W. J. Cavanaugh, H. P. Dunn, W. S. Cleary, J. W. Devitt, N. H. Ewing, T. F. Flynn, J. M. Flynn, J. H. Fendrick, R. E. Fleming, Ed Fischel, Fred Fischel, J. J. Gordon, L. P. Gibert, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, P. J. Hoffman, H. P. Hake, F. J Hurley, A J. Hintze, T. D. Healey, F. R. Johnson, A T. Jackson, P. A Joyce, F. A. Kleine, C. C. Kollars, A. Mendel, W. P. Mahan. Frank McPhillips, J. L. Morgan, C. J. McDermott, 8. T. Murdock, J. F. Martin, A. 8. Manning, H. W. Morse, M. A. McNulty, E. C. Orrick, J.P. O’Neill, F. J. Prenatt, E. M. Prenatt, D. G. Paul, G. J. Rhodius, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, Joe. Ruppe, G. W. Silverman, H. G. Sells, W. E. Smith, C. Schneider, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, G A Truschel, C. A. Tinley, F. J. Woeber, F. W. Wheatley, Thos. Williams, J. M. Kelly, P. McClarnon.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. A. Khz. W. M. O’ds, W. F. Hanavin, D. G. Taylor, F. M. Moroney, R. Costillo, W. Taylor, J. A Kelly, J. A. Frain, J. 8. . Courtney, D. O’Connor, C. E. Droste, W. T. Berthelet, D. L. McCawley. M. E. Devitt, J. E. Chaves, W. Rea, W. J. Miller, J.L. Rose.E. McGrath, J. W.Kent, J. McGrath, J. H. Dwenger, H. J. Ackerman, C. Metz, A B. Bender.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
J. T. Maher, G. De Haven, P. Hoffman, A Mendel, A Flynn, A. Browne, W. P. Mahon, L. Gibert, A C. Dick, G. Woodson,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
T. Williams, J. Bennett, F. Wheatley, J. Farrell, N. Nelson, F. Mattes, E. Cullinene, T. Hurley, C. Brinkman, J. H. Fen-drick, R. Fleming, A. Jackson, C. Murdock, 8. Mnrdock, A. Bodine, J. E. Martin, W. Barron, C. Kollars, L. O’Donnell, J. O’Reilly, J. Solon, F. Bell, L. Mathers, E. Taggart, C. Brehmer, A. Korty, M. B. Eaton, H. Morse, A. Dennis, E. Gaines, J. B. Zettler, J. W. Kuhn, W. Huddleston, M. Falvey, F. Prenatt.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. C. Eehlin, C- E. Droste, H. C. Snee, H. A. Kitz, D. G. Taylor, A. J. Van Mourlck, F. M. Moroney, W. Taylor, G. E. Tourtillotte, J. Moroney, J. A. Frain, J. 0. Haslam, R. Costillo, W. M. Olds, H. Metz, J. S. Couitney, J. H. Dwenger, C. Metz, J. Rnppe, J. R. Bender, F. B. Farrelly, E. B. Baggard, W. J. Miller, J. E. Chaves, W. Rea, 'D. L. McCawley, J. W. Kent, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, B. A. Bender.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading aid Orthography—A. Piniyotamab, A. Weishcart; Arithmetic—F. Prenatt, C. Kollars, E. Cul inene, E. Piper, C. Brehmer; Grammar— C. Kolla’s, B. Zekind, A Morse, J. Bennett. E. Cullinene. L. Glbert, A. Dick, F. Woeber, J. Martin, F. McPhillips, N. Nelson, J. Runpe, C. Perry, Geo. Hagan, W. Johnson, D. English, J. W. Kuhn, D. Phelps, J. Zettler; Geography and History—H. Morse, A. Brown, W. Mahon. G. O’Kane, A. Flynn, L. O’Donnell, F. Wheatley; Penmanship— -----; Algebra—N. Ewing, W. Gray, R. Fleming, H. O’Donnell ; Latin—W. Gray, E. Taggart; Greek—F.Clarke, W.Cleary, N. Ewing.
(ftl 9 TO 20 PER WEEK. Agents wanted to canvass for Magee's Illustrated Weeldy, Box 2120, New York.	n6-7t .
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Great Short Route South, Southwest and West.'
Jan. 10,1881. Local and Through Time Table. No. 21.
Going North.		STATIONS.	Going South.	
1.40 p m. 1.00 “ 12 35 “ 12.14 a m. 11.42 « 10.49 “ 10.12 “ 9X0 « 9.23 “ 8.50 “ 8.09 “ 7.25 “ 6.25 p.m.	4.20 p.m. 3 35 “ 3.14 “ 2.53 “ 2.23 “ 1.30 “ 1251 “ 12 30 p.m. 11.50 ‘> 11.18 “ 10.41 “ 9.57 " 8.50 &.m.	Arrive	Leave -	- Michigan City, - -- - - - La Porte, - - -	- - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - - -	- - Plymouth, - - -- - - - Rochester, - - - -	- - - Denver, ... -	- -	- Peru, - - - . - - Bunker Hill, - - - -	- - Kokomo, - - - - - -	- - - Tipton, - -- - - Noblesville, - - -Lv. - TndianapoUe. - Ab.	9.35 a.m. 10.28 “ 10.41 « 11.00 “ 11.35 “ 12.27 p.m. 1.06 “ 1.45 “ 2.05 “ 2.40 “ 3.16 “ 4.00 “ 5.00 “	8.05 p.m. 855 “ 9.20 “ 942 »• 10.21 “ 11.20 p.m. 1157 “ 12.25 a.m. 12.48 “ 1.80 “ 2.05 « 2.45 “ 3.40 “
THE ONLY LINE Running a noon Train out of Indianapolis for CHICAGO, Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Pointe in the EAST. Elegant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANAPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY. V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell, Genl Manager,Indianapolis. '	Gen’L Pus. and Ticket Agent.				
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
Robert King, TEACHER OF Elocution and Dramatic Art, (Since 1855,)
73 TWENTY-SIXTH STREET,
CHICAGO.
Liberal arrangements made with Colleges and Universities for Dramatic Recitals and Humorous Readings.
Terms sent on application.	-
oct23-3m	.	.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
.	• AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Nov- 7» 1880 TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOI1NG WEST.				
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5. Limit Ex
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,............	12.05 a.m. L15 “ 3.30 “ 5.00 “ 6.55 “ 7.25 “	9.15 a.m. 10.10 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.18 “ 5.40 “ 6.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	7.30 p.m.
Alliance,.'....					10.25 p.m.
Orrvillft,....				
Mansfield,						
Crestline/	Arrive				1.40 a.m.
Crestlin	Leavb Forest*.		 Lima	.....			7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.15 p.m. 3.46 * 7.00 “	6.35 p.m. 8.18 “ 9.30 “ 1208 a.m. 2.50 “ 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 1L28 1232 A.M. 2.40 • 4.55 “ 8.00 “	1.45 A.M.
				
FL Wayne,.....					5.35 “ 7.16 “ 9.40 “
Plymouth,............				
Chicago,. L... Arrive				
GOING EAST.				
7	No. 8, Fast Line	No. 2, Morn. Ex.	No. 4, AtlamEx	No. 6, N.Y. Ex
Chicago	Leavb Plymouth,	 FL Wayne,		 Lima,					9.40 pjf. 2.50 A.M. 6.55 “ 8.55 “ 10.08 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.53 “ 2.35 p.m. 4.36 “ 5.43 “ 7.10 “	5.15 p.m. 9.25 “ 12.15 a.m. 2.38 “ 3.55 “ 5.30 “	3.30 p.m.
				8.35 P.M. • ••••••••• 1235a.m.
Forest,	_... Crestline,	Arrive				
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 400 “ 622 “ 7.30 “	7.30 p.m. 803 “ 10.06 “ 1L45 “ 2.04 A.M. 3.15 “	640 a.m. 7.20 “ 9.23 “ 11.25 “ 2.10 “ 3.15 P.M.	1240 a.m. L15 “ 2.57 “ 4.25 “ 7.30 A.M.
Orrville,..'					
Alliance,	 Rochester,					
Pittsburgh,.... Arrive				
Trains Nos. 3,6, 5 and 4 run daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 8 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that rune the celebrated PuuutAX Palac Cabs from Chicago to Baltissore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at al rinclpal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F.KXYEBB, G.P. &T.A

THE NOTED DAME SCHOLASTIC.	287.
The Lemonnier Library,
Estdtdished at Notre Dame in 1872 for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. IP. EDWARDS.
Notbe Dame, Indiana.
' PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE E. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding or Notre Dame University.	.
I	Price, Si, postpaid.
; Address
i	PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
£

LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 14,1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.	.
2.25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. m.: Cleveland 2.30 p. m. Buffalo, 8.50 p. m.
11.05 a. m., Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. m.; Cleveland 10.10 p. m.; Buffalo, 4 a. m.	-
912 p. m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m. 12.16 p. m., Special New York Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. m., Cleveland, 10.10 p. m.;
Buffalo, 4 a. m..	...
6.21 p. m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p. m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a. m.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m.	.
5.05 a., m., Pacific Express. .Arrives at Laporte 5.50 a. m., Chicago 8.20 a.-m.	*
0-93 a. m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9.05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. m.;	Chicago, 11.30 a.	m.
1-16 p. m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.12. p. m.; Chesterton,	2.52	p. m.;	Chcago, 4.40 p. m.
4.50 p. m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5 38; Chesterton, 6.15 p. m.; Chicago, 8 pi m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.
'	EASTWARD.	1	2 MAIL.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	!	6 Atlantic Ex* press. ’	8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Express.
Chicago	Leave Grand Crossing	 “ Miller’s	 “	7 35 a.m. 8 09 “ 910 “ 9 32 “ 9 47 “ 10 06 “ 10 08 “ 11 05 “ 11 15 “ 1140 “ 5 25 p.m. 4 50 “ 10 10 a.m.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. x 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ 12 05 a.m. 12 32 “ 12 52 “	3 30 p.m.
					
Chesterton	 “ Otis  	 “					
		11 02 “ 11 20 “ 1122 “ 12 16 p.m.	7 32 “		
Laporte	Arrive Laporte	Leave South Bend	 “ Mishawaka	 “ Elkhart	Arrive Toledo	 “ Cleveland	 “ Buffalo	 “ New York	•	 “ Boston	   “					
			8 20 “ 9 12 “ 9 20 “	' 9 45 "	120 “ 2 25 “ 2 35 “ 3 00 a.m. 9 50 “ 2 55 p.m. 815 “ 10 30 a.m. 2 40 p.m.	5 38 “ 6 21	“
		12 50 “			. 6 45 “ 10.50. “ 2 00 a.m. 7 40 “ 10 10 p.m.
		10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m. 9 45 “	7 30 “ 1 25 p.m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “		
					
					
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l. Manager. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls your attention to tlie following REASONS WHY-if about to maize a Journey to
-	tlie GREAT WEST-you should Travel over it:
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union Depots, at all important points. No change of cars between Chicago, Kansas City, Leavenworth, Atchison orCouNCiL Bluffs. Quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purposes. and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. A j’ourney that furnishes the finest views of the fertile farms and pretty cities of Illinois. Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered as one of the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive at destination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty; calm, not angry. In brief, you get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of cost.
■KjutfanamvnrvMR
' I That the unremitting care of the Chicago. Rock Island & Pacific Railway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing bnsiness, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the sr^at assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the great citiesof the United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while en route to behold the wonderful scenes of.Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health, pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October, the Company every year puts on sale. May 1st, at all coupon ticket offices in the United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver. . Colorado Springs and Pneblo. at reduced rates, good returning, until October 31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties of ten or more, good for ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.
• ’■ REMEHBEK, this is the most direct route for all points WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further information, time tables, maps or folders, call upon or address tV. ». CABUE,	U. ST. JOHN,
Ties Pres’t and Gen'l Manager, Chicago.	' Gen’l Ticket and Pass'r Agent.
Weeklv Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame's students and friends solicited. Terms, <3 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, or 70.
rpHE AVE MARIA* a Catholic journal devoted to the I Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, 82.50.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, AND JEWELS, Y-.
AU Kinds of Engraving Doue.
SOUTH. BEND, INDIANA.

Michigan Central Railway
Time Table—Nov. 18, 1870.
	•MaH	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNlght Express.
Lt. Chicago - - -	7 00am	9 00 a m	4 00 p.m	515 p.m.	910 pm
“ Mich.City-	9 35 “	1118 “	6 85 “	740 “	1180 “
•• Niles		10 45 *•	1215 p.m	8 05 “	9 00 “	13 48 am
“ Kalamazoo-	IS 83 p.m	140 “	9 50 “	10 98 “	998 “
** Jackson * - -	8 45 “	4 05 “		1950 a.m	5 00 “
Ar. Detroit - -	6 48 “	6 80 “		885 “	8 00 “
	•Mall	•Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lt. Detroit - - -	7 00a.m	9 85am	5 55 p.m	950 p.m.	810 p.m
** Jackson - - -	10 90 “	1915 p.m		1945 am.	115 «
“ r,lM«.mn..	115 p.m	9 87 “	4 50 a. m	943 “	138 a.m
« Nile* ....	8 05 “	4 07 “	650 “	415 “	880 “
“ Mich.City--	4 80 “	590 “	8 08 •*	580 "	455 “
Ar. Chicago —	650 “	7 40 “	10 85 “	800 “ 1	780 “
Niles and South Bend. Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. S 90 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 IB «	588 “
Ar.Nilee— “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 415 p.m. “ N.Dame—740 “	448 “
Ar. So. Bend—745 “ 455 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted. HmfC.Wnworn, H.B. Lxdyamd,
G.	P. 4kT. A, Chicago, Hl. Gea'l Maaager, Detroit, Mich.
G. LBiuon, Agent, South Bead, Tad.
NOW READY.
The Scholastic Annual
FOR 1881.
CONTENTS.
Astrological Predictions—Astronomical Calculations— Ask Me Not Why (Poetry), S.—Abstinence Days—A Beautiful Thought, Bishop Ryan—A Course of Reading, T. E. Howard, A M.—Collegiate Studies, W.—Calendars —Chansons Physiologiques (Poetry), A. J. S.—Eclipses— Fasting Days—Father Badin, T. E. Shaw—Holy Days of Obligation—Introductory—In Statu Quo, H.—The Lady Anatomist (Poetry), A j. S.—Movable Feasts—The Music of the Church, Egg Rock—Memorial Sonnets. E. R. Michael Angelo (Poetry); Eliot Ryder—O’Connell (Poetry), M. F. Egan—Office of .the Blessed Sacrament, J. O. C. —Rates of Postage—A Tale, of the Middle Ages, H. H. —The Types of God, Edward Hyde—The Way of Success, Hon. E. F. Dunne LL. D.—Winged Words.
Price, 25 cents, post free.
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LIONS,
Notre Dame, Ind.