Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume IX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 26, 1876.
Number 26.
Notre Dame.
In the year 1830, the tract of land now known by the name of Notre Dame was purchased frc-m the Government by the Very Rev. S. T. Badin, the first priest ever ordained in the United States. Father Badin, whose missionary field embraced the whole Northwestern territory, had become acquainted with the locality in his travels, and, admiring its beauty, determined to secure it for a future College. With this view, he transferred it to the Bishop of Vincennes, who, to accomplish the design of the venerable proto-priest, deeded it in 1842 to the Congregation of the Holy Cross, a religious society organized in France by the Abbe Moreau, for the instruction of youth.
Prior to the coming of Father Badin the place seems to have been consecrated to religion, being known to the Indian converts and the few Catholic settlers of the surrounding country as St. Mary’s of the Lake. It was made the headquarters of two zealous missionaries, the Rev. L. Deseille and Rev. B. Petit, who after converting many Indians to the faith at last rested in the Lord, and their ashes now quietly repose under the new church recently erected through the labors of the Very Rev. A. Granger.
The Congregation of the Holy Cross took possession of Notre Dame in 1841; and the Very Rev. E. Sorin, then the Superior of the Congregation in America, went to work, although his means were scanty, and began clearing the forest preparatory to building the College in order to fulfil the terms in contract with the Bishop. The name of the place was changed from St. Mary’s to Notre Dame du Lac (Our Lady of the Lake) which in the course of time was shortened to Notre Dame. •
In the course of the two following years other members arrived from France, and after having erected some small buildings to the south of the lake, the little band found itself strong enough to undertake the building of the College, and on the 28th of August the corner stone was laid with appropriate ceremonies. Before the winter set in, the building was under roof, and the next spring it was completed. In June, 1844, the few students were removed from the farm-house to the new building, and in August the first Commencement Exercises took place. Through the spontaneous kindness of the Hon. John D. Defrees, then a member of the Legislature, a charter giving the institution university privileges was granted, and Notre Dame was placed fairly on its feet.
In the same year, 1844, the Manual Labor School was organized and received a charter from the State Legislature. By degrees a tailor-shop, a shoe-shop, a carpenter-shop, a blacksmith-shop, and others, made their appearance; the farm was cleared, and the hand of labor grasping the hand
of culture, the hum of industry was mingled with the -voice of prayer. ..
The first President of the College was Very Rev. E. Sorin, with whom in the early days of Notre Dame was ' associated Rev. F. Cointet, who died in 1846, and the Very Rev. A. Granger, who still resides at Notre Dame. Very Rev. Father Sorin held the office of President, from 1844 to 1865, when he was succeeded by Rev. P. Dillon, now deceased.
With regard to the education given at Notre Dame, it ‘ may not be out of place to state that for the bodily health of the student she provides regular hours of study, of recreation, and of repose; ample grounds for the exercise of every manly and athletic game; abundant and healthful food; and, if need be, the most attentive care in sickness.
For his intellectual advancement she secures a quiet place of study, far from the din and disturbance of the city; she saves his time for him, assigning to every hour of the twenty-four its appropriate occupation; and by unremitting attention on her own part, as well as by appealing to every nobler impulse in the student’s breast, she presses him on to the acquisition of knowledge and wisdom.
For his moral welfare, which is her chief concern, she first removes him from danger, and places before him the example of the virtuous; the vicious, or those whose conduct would lead the unwaiy into vice, being at once expelled from her halls. Thus vice being banished as soon as detected, passion kept under healthy control, and morality inculcated by the instruction and the example of good men, numberless souls who would otherwise have strayed from the paths of rectitude now move forward through life as shining patterns of virtue.
The sense of the beautiful also, inspired by the surroundings of Notre Dame, has no little to do with her success as an educational institution. Milton complains that Cambridge has no pleasant walks or soft shades, suited for the haunts of the muses; but the future poet who calls Notre Dame his alma mater will have no such complaint to make. A lovely landscape stretches away on every side, as far as the eye can reach, save where it is limited by the distant hills or forests.
To the south, scarcely two miles off, lies the pleasant and prosperous city of South Bend, one of the chief manufacturing centres of the country. The high wooded banks of the St. Joseph, one mile to the west, are crowned with the picturesque buildings of St. Mary’s Academy. Between the Academy and the College is St. Mary’s Lake, while to the north is St. Joseph’s. In the meadow between the lakes rises the “Island,” wooded on the north, and with a sunny vineyard spread over the south. On this island are situated the Professed House of the Community and the venerated Chapel of the Portiuncula.
402	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A continuous grove embraces both lakes, with the meadow and island between. Nestled within this grove, on the bank of St Mary’s Lake, is St. Aloysius’ Novitiate, now the Scholasticate, well beloved of many a zealcus priest who here became learned in the science of the saints. On the northern shore of St. Joseph’s lake rises the present stately Novitiate, the old Missionaries’ Home.
Buildings have of course arisen on every side, until their appearance is rather that of a town than of a college. The first college edifice, except the farm-house, was the central part of the old college buildings, and was thirty-six feet deep by eighty front, and four stories high. This continued unchanged until 1853, when two wings, each forty by sixty, were added. It was now thought that there would be room enough for at least a generation. But the error of this anticipation was discovered in a very few years; and in 1865, under the energetic presidency of Father P. Dillon, the old college building was, in the short space of two months, transformed into the present imposing structure-This edifice is one hundred and sixty feet in length, eighty in width, and six stories in height, and is surmounted by a colossal statue of Notre Dame. On the 31st of May, 1866, the new building was dedicated, and the statue blessed by Archbishop Spalding, assisted by five Bishops and a very great number of priests, in presence of the largest concourse of people ever gathered at Notre Dame.
Almost a like history may be written of the College Church of the Sacred Heart, erected through the exertions of Very Bev. A. Granger, Provincial, from the log building which Father Sorin found upon the banks of St. Mary’s Lake, to the present Gothic edifice, now approaching completion, and which has been pronounced, even in its unfinished state, to be worthy of any city in the Union. In connection with the Church and the College, a word may be said of the bells for which Notre Dame is famous. The original bell of Notre Dame is that clear, sweet-toned one that now rings out so pleasantly from St. Mary’s Academy. The second bell was one of 2,400 pounds, which becoming cracked, was taken down, and was succeeded by the present great belt This bell, with its rich musical tones, and its magnificent volume of sound, has a national reputation, being the largest in the United States, as it is one of the finest in the world. The Church also possesses a chime of twenty-three bells, the finest and largest but one in the country. They were solemnly blessed in 1856 by Archbishop Purcell and Bishop Henni of Milwaukee. With its bells, its noble organ, and its well-trained choir, it need not be said that nowhere in America are the solemn and beautiful services of the Church celebrated with more splendor than at Notre Dame. The new church, with its glorious nave and transept, its rich altar, and its seven beautiful chapels, gems of sacred art, will be but the fitting completion of the means here provided for the worship of Almighty God.
‘ In 1865 Rev. Patrick Dillon became President, but held the office for one year only; he died in the year 1866. Rev. Wm. Corby, his successor, was President until 1872, when he was succeeded by Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, who remained in office until his death in the fall of 1874. On the death of Rev. Father Lemonnier, Rev. P. J. Golovin entered on the duties of the office, and still discharges them. The Directors of Study from the beginning of the University to the present time were Rev. Alexis Granger, 1845—1851; Rev. Francis Cointet 1851—1852; Rev. Richard Shortis, 1851—1856; Rev. Neal H. Gillespie, 1856—1859, and again
1860—1863; Rev. Patrick Dillon 1858—1859, and again 1863—1865; Rev.-Wm. Corby, 1865—1866; Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, 1866—1872; Rev. M. B. Brown, 1872—1874; Rev. P. J. Colovin, 1874—1875. In 1875 Rev. John A. O’Connell, the present efficient incumbent, entered upon the duties of the office.
During the war, Notre Dame furnished many soldiers, some of whom attained the rank of Brigadier General. No less than seven priests became chaplains, viz.: Revs. Wm. Corby, P. P. Cooney, J. C. Carrier, Paul Gillen, James Dillon, J. Leveque, and J. Bourget; of whom the last three, from exposure, contracted diseases which ended in death.
Notre Dame is now in a flourishing state, and that it is so is due to the energy and perseverance not only of Very Rev. Father Sorin but also to the noble labors of Rev. Fathers Granger, Cointet, Shortis, Gillespie, P. Dillon, J. Dillon, Corby, Lemonnier, and other members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, who have left nothing undone to forward the interests of the College, as well as to the energy and zeal of the many able and efficient Professors, like O’Leary, Jones, Howard, Tong, Lyons, Stace, Ivers, and others. These brought up the reputation of Notre Dame and have made it the popular institution it has become. When we speak of its popularity we know that its neighbors— above all, the citizens of^South Bend—will bear us out in our assertion. How often have we not heard at Notre Dame expressions of gratification on the part of visitors at the kindly dispositions with which they feel themselves received ! No better proof can be given of the popularity of Notre Dame than is shown at the annual Commence ment by the multitude attending its interesting exercises and at which fifteen hundred dinners have been frequently served on the same day. Indeed there is no institution in the United States whose hospitality is more proverbial, and where friends and visitors are more congenially received and entertained.
The Thespian Society.
It has been customary at Notre Dame to diversify her Annual Commencement and several other festivals during the year with dramatic Entertainments. Originally, the Director of Studies was accustomed to call upon the leading students of the house and assign them their parts in the drama to be played. For the time being, the corps thus assembled together formed a regular organization; the Director having however supreme authority, even in the election and exclusion of members. It was in this manner [that the dramatic body passed through a long succession of years, and produced many able amateur performers, among whom might be mentioned Gillespie, McKeown, Collett, McGean, O’Reilly, McNally, Runnion, Menard, and Crowley. Some of these gentlemen have attained to high ecclesiastical dignities or social responsibilities, and may smile to think of the triumphs of their younger days. The first director of the dramatists was Rev. Father Shaw, under whose administration many excellent dramatic entertainments were given, though the want of scenery was a considerable drawback to his young actors. It was in his time that “ William Tell ” and the " Nervous Man ” were first played at Notre Dame. In both of these plays N. H. Gillespie, who afterwards became, as a priest, so intimately connected with everything about the College, distinguished' himself; and old settlers about here still speak of the admirable manner in which he acted the part of McShane in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	403
the latter play. Rev. R. Shortis was the second Director. We have no record of what transpired under his rule further than that “Sebastian, the Roman Martyr,” was played with great eclat. By the way, may we not beg of the Rev. gentleman to give us his recollection of the exhibitions in olden times, for some future Scholastic ? In 1856, Rev. 1ST. H. Gillespie became Director, and after one year’s interregnum again in 1860. In 1857 an adaptation of MoliSre’s “ Bourgeois Centilhomme” was played, Thomas Brady assuming the principal role. In 1858, “ Henry IV” was played, E. A. McNally taking the part of Hotspur, Jas. B. Runnion, now of the Chicago Tribune, that of Prince Hal, and Jacob Solomans that of Falstaff. In 1859 Addison’s “Cato” was played. Peter Menard took the role of Cato, and General Lynch that of Syphax. The “ Hidden Gem,” by Cardinal Wiseman, was played in 1860, James B. Runnion appearing as Alexis, John Collins as the father of Alexis, and F. C. Bigelow as Carinus. In the year 1861 the Rev. N. H. Gillespie gave the dramatists a written constitution and elective powers as a regular society. Among the charter members we might mention the names of Orville T. Chamberlain, now attorney at law in Elkhart; Francis Cotton; Thomas Naughton, now an attorney in New York city, we believe; John Lonergan, who was killed in the late rebellion; Edward M. Brown, now an attorney in Cleveland, Ohio; and a number of others. The society, though known among the boys as the Thespian Society, was however by the faculty designated simply as the Dramatic Society. During the year the society played the “Iron Chest,” with O. T. Chamberlain in the leading character. At the Commencement, Sheridan’s “Rivals” was played, Chamberlain, Schutt, O’Malley, Fleming, and others, taking roles. This play was followed with “A Good Night’s Rest,” in which Chamberlain and Bigelow alone appeared. In 1862 “Columbus,” a play written for the Thespians, was presented. Edward M. Brown personated the leading character, with Fleming, Kelly, and others, in subordinate parts.
In 1863, “William Tell” was the play; in which E. M. Brown was the hero, and J. McManus the tyrant. In 1864, “Henry IV” was again played, M. T. Corby taking the role of Falstaff, while those of Prince Hal and Hotspur were taken by T. A. Corcoran and E. M. Brown. In 1865 there were no exhibitions, for the reason that the rush of students was so great that Washington Hall was made to accommodate them. Of the year 1866 we have no record, and know not what was played by the Thespians; in 1867, however, the Society passed under the Directorship of Mr. E. A. McNally, and Mr. F. R. Stansell became its “ star.” We have no record of the Society in 1868, but in 1869, on the 22d of February, the Thespians played “ Count de Moor,” with M. S. Ryan, M. J. Moriarty, and others in the leading roles and Prof. M. T. Corby the Director. The following year Mr. F. X. Derrick took charge of the Society, but was compelled to resign on account of ill-health, and M. T. Corby again became director. “ William Tell ” was played for the third time, J. R. Boyd taking the leading role. In 1871, “ Henry IV” was again played, with Fox, Stillwagen, Moriarty and Darr personating the leading characters.-The year following, on the 22d of February, “ Damon and Pythias” was played, Moriarty assuming the rble of Hamon, and Darr that of Pythias. Cochrane, Walker, O’Mahony, Watson, Malony, Rorke, and others, took the subordinate rbles. At the end of the year, “Venice Preserved” was the play, with Watson and Cochrane In the two principal
parts. The year following the Society, under Prof O’Mahony, reproduced “Damon and Pythias,” with C. J. Dodge and Chas. Berdel in the leading parts. In 1874 Prof. Lyons became director, and has been such ever since. On the 22d of February the Society played “ Waiting for the Verdict,” with parts taken by Berdel, Walker, Maloney, McLaughlin, C. and W. Dodge, Clarke, H. and L. Hayes, McGinnis, McSweeney, and others. The same play was given at the end of the year. The following year “ The Brigands” was played on the 22d of February, and “Vil- ■ dac ” at the end of the year. The Society is now under the directorship of Prof. Lyons, and we hope it may continue to earn laurels of triumph as in former years.
Associated Alumni.
The Associated Alumni is an association organized in June, 1869. Among its members are principally those atudents who have graduated from the University in the Classical or Scientific Courses, although all persons who have at any time held the office of President or Director of Studies of the University, or who have received honorary degrees from the faculty, are also members.
The first President of the Association was the Rev. N. H. Gillespie, of ’49.
On the day preceding the annual Exhibition, the Association has a grand reunion and banquet. On Commencement Day they are represented by a poet and an orator. Prof. A. J. Stace was poet in ’70, and Paul Broder was orator; in ’71, O. T. Chamberlain was orator; in ’72, Paul Broder was poet, and Rev. E. B. Kilroy orator; in ’73 Rev. M. B. Brown was poet and J. J. Fitzgibbon orator; in ’74, Gen. W. F. Lynch was orator, and in ’75 T. F. O’Mahony filled the same position.
The Association is quite large, and each year the reunions become more and more pleasant andsagreeable.
The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association.
The mind, philosophers tell us, is the active principle, and since wherever there is mind there is action, wherever there is diversity of mind there must be agitation. Now education, so far from “ levelling up,” as modern political economists pretend, increases the diversity and inequality of minds, just as multiplying the numbers 4 and 7 by the same factor 5 would give a difference of 15, whereas before there was a difference of but 3. Wherever we find a concourse of educated minds, therefore, we must expect to find agitation—agitation kept within due bounds by sound common sense and good feeling, if you will, but still something very different from the automatic routine of machinery.
So much being premised, our readers will not be surprised to hear that the history of the Philodemic Society peculiarly abounds in periods of turbulence—periods in which rival factions and cliques strove for mastery—interspersed among long reigns of peace and good understanding. To this Society have belonged most of those whose names are part and parcel of the history of Notre Dame. Its records, which are before me as I write, are valuable if only for the autographs they contain—autographs of useful and honorable men, now scattered for the most part throughout the United States and the neighboring Dominion, each pursuing the career for which his education at Notre Dame
404	... THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
has fitted him, if we except some—nay, many, who have left the cares of earth for a happier home.
The records open with an enlightened and patriotic preamble setting forth the motives which conduced to the formation of the Society, and followed by a written constitution, in the first article of which, viz., “ This Society shall be known by the name of ‘The Debating Society of Notre Dame du Lac,’’’the word “Debating” has been erased, and the words “ St. Aloysius ” substituted. This change was probably made in September of the same year, the constitution bearing the date Jan. 2d, 1850. I come to this conclusion from an observation of the headings of the minutes, which are styled “ Proceedings of the Debating Society ” until Sept. 22d, 1850, when they are headed “ Proceedings of St. Aloysius Literary Society,” without anything in the previous meeting to show when or how the change was effected. The election of Father—or “ Mr.” Gillespie, as the minutes style him, to the Presidency, vice F. X. Byerly, resigned, may have had something to do with it. The names of Wetzler and Glennen, who are also on the old tableau d’honneur in the Junior refectory, appear in the early records as holding offices of trust. Father Letourneau was among the early Vice-Presidents, but resigned at a meeting which he had himself called to order, Sept. 17th, 1850. Father Cooney’s name is on the roll of members. The notes, from this period, are kept by Charles H. Williams, in the neat hand which preceded the introduction of the “ Spencerian” system of penmanship. The President occasionally took part in the debates, and in such cases no decision was given. The old questions about Bonaparte and Washington, the sword and the bottle, etc., recur with strange familiarity. When will our debating societies exhaust them? Father Gillespie’s signature is not nearly so rapid as it afterwards became, when he was Prefect of Studies. Resignations and expulsions are frequent, and stormy times must have been quite usual, but the meetings were held regularly and the minutes show that work was done which required preparation and received it, so that the old St Aloysius was true to its mission from the very commencement. A copy of resolutions, bearing date November 17th, 1850, resists the appointment of a member of the College Faculty as Director to the Society, on the ground that it would be an insult to the President, Neal H. Gillespie, and would imply that the Society was incapable of self-government, and resolves upon'a dissolution if any change is made in a constitution already approved by Rev. Father Superior. A copy of these resolutions is ordered to be sent to the honorary members of the Society, including the Bishops of Vincennes and Detroit, Hon. James Shields, Rev. M. E. E. Shaw, D. D., Hon. David L. Gregg, G. Jones, Esq., and others. The language is respectful, but unquestionably in earnest, as the following minutes contain the resignation of the President and other officers, and the election of a “ Critic,” Mr. Mahoney, a member of the Faculty. This was probably a compromise, for we read on the one hand that the “ Resolutions ” were not accepted by Father Superior, while on the other the Society did not disband. On Dec. 2d, 1850, N. H. Gillespie resigns his membership of the Standing Committee, and it is resolved that the Critic henceforward shall give the decision at all debates. And thus the first storm blew over.
A calm succeeded, and lasted for several years, as show the minutes of Glennen, McKuen and Curry. Rev. E. B. Kilroy was elected President Oct. Sth, 1853. The abolition question caused a furious rumpus on Feb. 7th, 1854,
on the occasion of John Mitchel’s paper, the “Citizen,” being refused admission into the Society Reading Room by the Rev. President, on the ground that it was blasphemous in its style of advocating slavery. Everything was finally settled by turning the subscription .over to the “American Celt,” upon the merits of which both parties were happily agreed. A new constitution and by-laws grew out of this fuss. Appended to it is the familiar autograph “ E. Sorin,” and in the signatures of members following appear the names of Eugene O’Callaghan, William Corby, Thos. Vagnier and William Ivers,—the two latter under the date of Dec. 22d, 1854.
Thus far I have been a little diffuse, as the origin of a society and what may be called its heroic age are always matters of interest. But to condense a little:
In 1855 we find D. J. Moriarty President and Thos.' Vagnier Secretary.
In 1856, Mr. James Dillon,—“Father James,”—was President, and his brother Michael Secretary. No ructions. The minutes are nearly all countersigned by Rob’t. Healy, Vice-Pesident. Nov. 5th Father Gillespie again becomes President on the retirement of Father James, who returned, however, as Vice-President in February, 1857.
In Sept., 1857, Rev. James Dillon, President; Rob’t. Healy, Secretary. The names of J. B. Runnion, John Collins, Walter Elliott and Phil. Carroll first appear.
In 1858 the title “ Academic ” is first given to the sessions of the Society. The members are now very few in number, and the minutes betray a degree of classic elegance which seems to imply that they are very select also. Same president; Jas. B. Runnion, secretary. A badge was adopted—“ a scarf to be thrown over one shoulder and to fall down under the arm . . . the color, celestial blue, and fringe of white silk.” After this need we say that no unpleasantness of any description is to be found recorded against the Society, which was at this epoch a model of decorum and morum bonorum ? In the spring session of this scholastic year, T. E. Howard was elected as a member, and W. F. Lynch and M. B. Brown in Oct. 1859, under the same administration. This was evidently the Augustan age of the Society.
In 1860, Father James Dillon having left for St. Mary’s of the Lake, Chicago, Father Gillespie again became President, with John Lonergan as Secretary; and the names of F. C. Bigelow, Dan. M. M. Collins, Jas. M. Howard, Jno. Fitzgibbon, and F. X. Cottin appear among the members. The society at this time used to meet in the College Library, a large room occupying half the east wing in the third story of the old building. This room was used as a Reading Room at all recreation hours by the society, whose own library was kept on shelves set apart for that purpose, and whose newspapers were to be found upon the tables.
In the fall of 1860, under the secretaryship of Jas. M. Howard, the society seems to have been generally known as the “Academy of Debate ’’—not that this title was ever constitutional; but we notice that the minutes of Nov. 13th are headed, like those of preceding meetings, “Academic Session,” while the next—those of Nov. 27th, are under the caption “Eighth Session of the Academy.” • Hence the corruption may have slipped in unconsciously. Among the members we find Thos. Naughton, John Crowley, Edward Myers, J. McManus, and others. Father Patrick Dillon . was President for this and many subsequent years, and affairs went on too smoothly to be interesting.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	405
In the spring of 1862 we find some of the minutes written in the neat chirography of W. P. E. Cotter as Sec. pro tem. The names of Dan’l Spillard, Jos. Kelly, Jos. Healy, A. O’Malley, and W. D. Bunbury occur on the rolls. In the fall of the same year, the number of members being very • much reduced, the meetings used to take place in the Deaf and Dumb Department, a large room behind the Juniors’ study room, which then occupied but half the west wing. The deaf and dumb boys used to watch the proceedings with great interest and some mystification. Some of the more interesting debates, however, took place in presence of the students in the Senior study-hall. Joseph Healy was Secretary.	.
J	At this epoch a hiatus occurs in the minutes, and we have
' no records between November 4th, 1862, and Oct. 9th, 1865. During this long period the society held its meetings in a room partitioned off from the Senior play-room, and latterly occupied as a refreshment room by B. Thomas. Here they had their library and reading-room, and it is a pity that their records have perished, as from what I remember of the debates and debaters of that day they must have been interesting. Michael Corby, Louis Rosecrans, Tom Corcoran and Ed Brown were some of the most distinguished members. Oct. 9th, 1865, Father Corby, President, Aug. E. Tammany, Secretary. Tammany having been elected Vice-President, 22d, Nov., J. J. Carlin became Secretary.
1866, Father Jas. Dillon, President, Louis McKernan, Secretary. The Society was disbanded Nov. 6th of this year by a vote of all but one of the members. No sufficient reason can be found in the minutes for this extraordinary . proceeding. Moreover, the exact date at which it rose :	from its ashes, under the title of the “Philodemic Literary
Society,” and the Presidency of Rev. M. M. Hallinan, is unknown to the deponent, but is presumed to have been early in 1867. A moot court now formed the special attraction, and engrossed the time of the society by its weekly sessions. Their meeting-room was in the new College, and now forms part of the Circulating Library.
Sept. 24th, 1867, Father Lemonnier, President, Jas. Cun-nea, Sec. The name of St. Aloysius appears again as part of the official title of the society, and the librarian is evidently kept busy in collecting missing books and papers, scattered probably during the interruptions. The Society begins to meet in class-room No. 6. Wm. Walker was Secretary during the second session, and the “Two-Penny Club ” was founded, to read a literary paper at the meetings.
1868,Father Spillard, President; James Cunnea, Secretary. Everything serene. James A. O’Reilly, Secretary for second session.
-	1869, same President, James Edwards, Secretary for first
session and John A. Zahm for second.
1870,	Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, President, John M. Gearin, Secretary for first session. For second session, Feb. 1871, Father John O’Connell, President, James J. Wilson. Secretary.
1871,	Prof. A. J. Stace, President, P. Fitzpatrick, Secretary. Literary paper called the “Owl”started by a Club, and read before the Society. Name very appropriate. General muss on account of it. Two parties met alternately and expelled each other. No results. Society meetings took place in No. 11—part of the present Collegiate Studyroom.
1872,	Father Zahm, President, T. P. White, Secretary. From this date the memory of the resident members will
supply the place of any further remarks from me. I have endeavored in this short sketch to throw as much light as possible on disputed points in the history .of this Society, and to trace it through its aliases up to its present condition. May the records of its past history afford a guiding light to its future career!	.
The Society ought to have celebrated its Silver Jubilee on Jan. 2d, 1875, but if it did so, no one heard of it.
■ Att Old Membeb.
The St. Cecilia Philomathean Society.
In the year 1858 the late Rev. N. H. Gillespie was VicePresident of the University of Notre Dame, and Prof. Joseph A. Lyons had charge of the Junior Collegiate Department. The Juniors had by that time become a very important branch of the University, and it was accordingly thought proper and necessary that they should organize a society for the more complete development of the literary, dramatic, and musical talent of their department. The society, therefore, according to the following trochees, was founded
“ In the dreamy, rich November, In the slumbrous Indian Summer, On the day of sweet Cecilia, In the year of eight and fifty.
Well the time we all remember,	.
When the art of soft according Drew this goodly troop together, When they chose the blest Musician, Sweetest patron, gifted, lovely, Queen of harmony to guide them Through the maze of heavenly numbers.”
The first officers of the Society were: Director, Rev. N. H. Gillespie; President, Prof. Lyons; Vice-President, Joseph Healy; Secretary, Jas. Kennedy; Cor. Sec’y, Julius La-barthe; Treasurer, Edwin Wallin; Censors, Douglas Cooke and Fred Butters; Librarians, George Mayer and Joseph Mukautz; and Monitor, Cassius Brelsford. Among the other members were Thomas Tallant, T. A. Daily, T. Sidley, John and James Carlin, John Connolly, E. Barnes, and the Hibbard brothers. Among later members we may mention John Skelly, John Flanigen, Otis Walker, D. J. Wile, Frank Ingersoll, Jas. Sutherland, E. Walker, James Wilson, Rufus McCarty, Michael Mahony, W. J. Clarke, Robert Staley, Mark Foote, Chas, and Wm. Dodge, John McHugh, Arthur Murphy, Daniel Egan, John A. O’Connell, F. W. and J. G. Ewing, Jas. Ruddiman, J. A. O’Reilly, Frank Guthrie, and a whole host besides.
Of almost every member it may be said in the essentials, “ Lessons, Duties, and Conduct,” he was not only without blame but an honor to his Alma Mater. And in after-life their place has been among the foremost and most honorable. They have become priests, physicians, merchants, lawyers, and literary men, but their proudest title has always been that they are St. Cecilians—for time and distance do not break the fraternal bond. Many have risen to distinction, many too have gone to a brighter land. Among the departed are Joseph Healy, a promising lawyer; John Carlin, a distinguished physician; James Kennedy and Michael Mahony, earnest young levites; Frederick Butters, a rising merchant; and Cassius M. Brelsford, President of the American Literary and Lecture Bureau of New York.
For their names and special occupations at different times, we must again turn to the trochaics:
406
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“ ‘ Saint Cecilia,’ ‘ Philomathean,’
‘ Field Band ’ famous, corps dramatic; Music sang they, music played they, Hymns recited, read addresses, Flays enacted, plaudits rousing; On the stage and in the city, Winning fame, and winning honor; Serenading, in processions, Ever flashed their martial colors, Ever first were borne their banners.”
The “Field Band” period wag during the war, at the close of which the youthful military Went to Chicago to do honor to Gen. Sherman, whom they serenaded at his hotel: at the same time they were a marked attraction at the Great Northwestern Sanitary Fair, where they gave vent to their patriotism in singing together some brave verses composed for the occasion.
The most recent feature of the Society is The Philoma-thean Standard, a semi-monthly literary paper started in 1873, and continued with unabated interest ever since. The consequence of this is that a fine literary taste has been developed in the society, which is now as marked as the elocutionery and dramatic excellence has been for so long a time. John McHugh, Daniel Egan, Charles Dodge, Charles Berdel, and some distinguished young gentlemen now far on the way to graduation, have been the most eminent of the writers for the Standard.
Altogether the University has no body of young men of whom she is more proud, and with good reason, than she is of her Cecuians; and this will ever be the case so long as their President is that soul of honor and good-fellowship, Professor Joseph A. Lyons.
The Philopatrians,
The St. Stanislaus Philopatrlan Society was founded on the 25th of March, 1872, by Prof. J. A Lyons. Among the charter members were W. T. Ball, J. Langenderfer, Joseph Marks, Samuel Marks, A. K. Schmidt, and others, who have since distinguished themselves in other Societies. The membership is confined to the Preparatory Department, where it serves as an auxiliary to the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, for which it prepares members. In addition to this object, it aims at accustoming its members to public speaking and encouraging them in a love for eloquence and literature. Meetings are held weekly, at which the members read original essays, debate questions, and practice themselves in declamation. Once a year, the Society gives a public exhibition, consisting of essays, declamations, and perhaps a short play. At their entertainment in 1873 the members played “Robin Roughhead;” in 1874, “The Prince of Portage Prairie;” in 1875, “The Blind Boy,” and the “Harvest Storm.” The Society now numbers twenty-four members, all of whom are active and enthusiastic. The meetings are held every Thursday night, in Room No. 4.
The Columbians.
The Columbians were organized on the 25th of March, 1873. They are thus the youngest literary association at Notre Dame, and as a natural consequence have all the dash and energy of youth. This society owes its origin to the efforts of Rev. Father Lemonnier. It was organized for the benefit of students of the Commercial Course, who
in the way of literary societies were at that time supposed to be less favored than their fellow-students of the Classical and Scientific departments. The Columbians, however, set to work, determined to succeed, and as proof that their efforts had not by any means been unsuccessful, students of all classes and of every department soon solicited the privilege of membership. During the lifetime of Rev. Father Lemonnier the Columbians always considered themselves under his immediate protection, and constantly exerted themselves to show a fitting appreciation of the kindness and attention they received at his hands. Professor Lyons, —the veteran society-manager of Notre Dame,—as also Professors Stace and Tong, cordially cooperated with the Rev. President, and to their efforts is due much of the early success of the Columbians. Prof. Stace, especially as promoter, and afterwards as President—which position he occupied for a year and a half—rendered services which the Columbians ought not soon to forget. The Charter members of the Association appointed as committee to draft a constitution and by-laws were the Vice-President, M. J. W. McAllister; the Recording Secretary, M. B. Tor bett; Treasurer, E. M. Mullen; the Librarian, J. B. Comer and the Censor, M. P. Sullivan.
The Columbians made their debut on the stage Dec. 22d, 1873, in the grand spectacular and eminently Stacian met-low drama in three acts entitled “ The Enchanted Hostelry.” They went far beyond the hopes of those who did not know them, and fully realized the expectations of those who knew what they could do. Of course, when all do well, distinctions are invidious—so let it suffice to say that the principal characters were sustained by Messrs. Gavitt, Crummey, Cassidy and O’Sullivan.
The Columbians also took part in the celebration of Rev. President Lemonnier’s birthday, on March 11th, 1874, bringing out in their usual happy manner the laughable farces “Handy Andy” and “Box and Cox.”
On the retirement of Professor Stace from the presidential chair, Professor T. O’Mahony assumed the charge of the Columbians, and during his tenure of office fully succeeded in keeping up their well-merited reputation. It was they who gave the highly interesting entertainment of St. Patrick’s Day, 1875, in honor of Rev. President Golovin. In Sept., 1875, the Columbians passed under the care of Professor J. F. Edwards, and we have already had proof that under his painstaking and energetic management they are resolved that the record of the society shall be as bright as ever. All allow that the entertainment in December, 1875, at which the Right Rev. Bishop Kane of Wheeling presided, was one of the most enjoyable given of late years at Notre Dame. The play, “ The Corsican Brothers,” then produced by them has been pronounced the best since the ‘‘Verdict,” brought out by the Thespians three years ago. Success, therefore, to the Columbians. Their go-ahead spirit deserves it; we have but one advice to give them:
,	“Keep on.”
/ The Scientific Association.
In the spring of 1868, at the suggestion of Prof. A. J. Stace, the Rev. J. C. Carrier took steps towards the formation of a scientific society in the College. As the members of the society were taken from the classes of Natural Sciences, Physics and Mathematics, the name first adopted was the United Scientific Association. In the course of time, part of the name was dropped, and it is now known
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	407
1	simply as the Scientific Association. The Directors of the
society for the first year were Rev. J. C. Carrier, Rev. T.
•	L. Vagnier and Prof. A. J. Stace. J. E. McBride was Sec-
retary and H. B. Keeler, Treasurer. There were the first ;	year seventeen members, all of whom attended the classes
of Natural Sciences. Among the students who in different years were prominent members of the association were E. S. Pillars, E. Von Donhoff, W. T. Johnson, J. A. O’Reilly, J. Cunnea, S. B. Hibben, E. Hull, H. B. Keeler, W. P. McClain, T. Ewing, A. W. Arrington, W. Waldo, D. A. Clarke, I	J. A. Zahm, R. H. McCarty, J. M. Gearin, T. F. O’Ma-
hony, T. Ireland, M. H. Keeley, N. S. Mitchell, J. McHugh, M. M. Mahony, M. Carr, M. M. Foote, E. B. Gambee, D. J. Hogan, T. J. Dundon, J. D. McCormick, P. J. O’Con'	nell, T. P. White, H. W. Walker, T. A. Dailey, W. W.
Dodge, H. V. Hayes, C. A. Berdel, D. E. Mahoney, R. W.
. Staley, L. S. Hayes, C. J. Dodge, W. J. Clarke, C. M. Proctor, T. F. Grier, T. J. Murphy, C. Walter, and E. J. McLaughlin. The association is now under the charge of
.	Rev. J. A. Zahm, and is as prosperous as ever.
.	- Musical Societies.
The number of the musical organizations at Notre Dame has always been very large, for music forms a considerable part of the entertainments given at intervals by the students. However, it has been the misfortune of the singing clubs never to keep up the names by which they were known in former years. Some of the musical societies, however, have kept up a regular organization for years.
’ The Notre Dame Cornet Band was formed in 1846 by the Rev. Francis Gouesse. The Band has been under the leadership of Messrs. Sotokase, Dusoe, B. Basil, M. E. Girac, Boyne, O’Neill, Lilly and J. H. Gillespie, and is now led by Mr. Geo. Roulhac. It is at present in a flourishing condition, and numbers some eighteen or twenty instruments. The Orchestra has not the same uninter-upted history as the Band. B. Basil, Mr. John O’Neill, Prof. M. E. Girac, C. A. B. von Weller, D. Paul, and B. Leopold, have at times been leaders, and it now flourishes under the direction of Br. Basil. It was while under the managemenet of Prof. Girac and B. Basil that the orchestra saw its best days, and we hope that it may under its present able management again attain the glory of those days.
The Gillespie Choral Union was first organized as simply the Choral Union, by Prof. Girac. It was afterwards reorganized by Prof. M. T. Corby under the name of the Philharmonic Society, and was very successful. In the winter of 1874 it was again reorganized as the Gillespie Choral Union, by Prof. D. Paul. It has not been reorgnaized as yet this year, but as we hear it stated that able management will shortly take hold of it and make it what it should be, we place it among the musical organizations. The Amphion Quartette Club was organized this year and appeared at numerous entertainments. There are a number of excellent music teachers at the - College, and many of the students receive lessons in instrumental music.	-
Art, Music and Literature.
—Meissonier was appointed President of the Academy of the Fine Arts at its recent sitting.
—“ Plato’s Best Thoughts” have been compiled from
Prof. Jewett’s translation of the dialogues, by the Rev. C. H. A. Bulkley.
—Herr Otto Goldschmidt, the pianist and composer, will play at two concerts this season in London, assisted by Madame Lind-Goldschmidt as vocalist.
—Carpeaux left an unfinished repetition of his celebrated group, “ La Danse, ” one-third the size of the orginal. It has since been finished, and will be placed on exhibition with several others of his repetitions.
—It was proposed to place the pictures of Samuel Adams and Peter Faneuil, now at Feneuil Hall, Boston, on exhibition at the Centennial, but it meets with much opposition, on account of the great risks to be assumed.
—The Russian government is about to print a facsimile in photo-lithography of the famous Babylonian Codex, in the Imperial library of St. Petersburg, which contains all of the latter prophets in the original Hebrew.
—The Burlin museum has purchased the “Mansuni Giorgione,” the Raphael of the Patrizi collection of Rome; also from the same collection a small lignoretti, and a portrait attributable to Sebastiano del Pombio.
—A magnificent cameo, supposed to be a portrait of Octavia, the second wife of Mark Antony, and sister of Augustus, has been brought to the notice of the Paris Acad-emie des Inscriptions. The stone is a sardonyx, with a milky surface.
—A curious “ mosaic” volume is announced in London, under the title of “Human Nature,” consisting of sayings, maxims, opinions, and reflections upon human life, selected and arranged by D. W. Mitchell, author of “ Ten years in the United States.” •
—The matinee given by Theodore Thomas at Steinway hall, on the 5 th inst., says The New York was memorable for the first production in New York of Mr. J. K. Paine’s first symphony. The work is in the key of C. Minor, and is scored for the usual instruments of the modern grand orchestra.
—Three unknown church-cantatas by J.S. Bach —“Wer Dank opfert der preiset mich,” “ Ach Gott, wie manches Herzeleid,” and “ Sie werden aus Saba alle kommen”— formed the programme of the Leipzig Bach Society’s first concert under its new conductor, Herr H. V. Herzogenburg. The Bach Society of London has just published ten of these hitherto unknown church-cantatas, making in all about 100 rescued from oblivion by this society.
—Mr. Sidney Lanier, a young Southern poet whose contributions to some of the magazines have recently attracted a great deal of notice, has been appointed (says the Tribune) to write the text of a cantata for the opening of the Centennial festival, and Mr. Dudley Buck is to compose the music. Both selections seem to be good ones, and the new era of reconciliation will be fitly symbolized by this union of North and South in the song of celebration.—American Art Journal.
—The Vatican library now possesses 24,000 MSS., of which 17,000 are in Latin, 3,450 in the Greek, and 2,000 in the Oriental languages. Besides these it contains about 50,000 books. The principal director is' a Cardinal, who in the ordinary business is represented by two custodians; besides these there are seven scrittori (librarians,) and several subordinate officials. Permission to use it is best obtained by applying to the Embassy, stating the branch of study contemplated.
—Queen Victoria has placed the following pictures at the disposal of the Centennial Art Commission: “ The Marriage of the Young Princess,” by Northcote; “ The Marriage of H. R. H. the Prince of Wales,” by Frith, both from Bock-ingham Palace; “ The Meeting of the Members of the Royal Academy,” Zoffany; an engraving, from Windsor Castle; Hayter’s portrait of “Her Majesty in Coronation Palace,” and Benjamin West’s “ Death of Wolfe,” from Hampton Court Palace. The Royal Academy will send diploma paintings and busts by a large number of deceased members. South Kensington Museum will contribute an interesting and instructive collection, together with a history of the rise of art industry in England.—American Art Journal.
408
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^j aine
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum,Postpaid.
THE SCHOLASTIC ALMANAC may now be procured at the Students’ Office, and at Jansen, McClurg & Co.’s, 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago.
Notre Dame. February 20, 1S76.
Our Present Number.
In accordance with the request of the committee appointed by the Indiana State Board of Education, we publish in this week’s number of the Scholastic a sketch of the College, of the different Societies, of our paper, and of other things connected with Notre Dame. We know that most of our friends will be pleased to see that we have made use of our space to give notice of things of interest connected with Notre Dame, and will excuse us for not publishing the usual number of essays and the customary amount of local and personal gossip. Since the paper has passed into our hands this is the first time we have given all our columns to matter of this kind, and we believe it will be the last. Hence wehope that such of our readers as have never been at Notre Dame will willingly forego the usual essays, etc., while we feel certain that all the old students, and friends of the place, will be delighted to have recalled to them the memories of the College.
We, then, send forth this number, in which is contained the histoiy of the College, in the hope that it will be pleasing to all,—to the old students, by recalling the olden time; and to other friends, by letting them know what was the condition of Notre Dame years ago.
The Exhibition.
- As we are hard pressed for space this week, we hope that our young friends will pardon us for not giving the usual amount of space to the account of the Exhibition given by them on the night of the 22d. The Entertain, ment began at seven o’clock precisely, with the Grand National Medley by the Band. It was well rendered, as was also the concluding piece by it. We are sorry to say that the ‘‘ Gold and Silver Polka” was not played as well as we have heard the Band play it on other occasions, while Schubert’s “Serenade” was not well rendered. We would advise the young men never to attempt the rendition of this piece without considerable more practice. Although we are highly pleased to see them practicing music of this kind, yet we would much sooner they would not attempt it in public unless they succeed entirely.
The Orchestra gave us the overture to La Dame Blanche in very good style. Why is it that we cannot have more orchestral music in the hall? Music of this kind is better adapted to indoors than band music, which is more suited to the open air. Please, Mr. Director, do favor us with more orchestral music.
The Centennial Poem, composed and read by Mr. W. T. Ball, was a very creditable production. Its literary merits were above the average of poems of this kind, while the reading of Mr. Ball was worthy of great praise. The recitation, “ The American Flag,” by Mr. A. K. Schmidt, was a highly creditable production, and was greeted .with much applause. '
The drama of “ William Tellj” was well acted by the members of the Thespian Association. The part of the tyrant “ Gesler ” was well filled by Mr. B. L. Euans, while “Sarnem,”his lieutenant, found a worthy personator in Mr. F. B. Devoto. Mr. J. J. Gillen’s personation of the hero, “William Tell,” was exceedingly fine, and was received with frequent applause. Master A. K. Schmidt, of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, performed the part of “ Albert ” with much grace and skill. Mr. Cassidy, as Tell’s father, played veiy well; Carl Otto, (Verner), W. T. Ball (Emi), and J. Dechant (Furst), played to great advantage, while Mr. E. G. Graves as “ Melctal ” was one of the best old men we have ever seen on the stage at Notre Dame. E. S. Monohan, J. M. Rourke, C. Robertson, J. Caren, J. Connolly, H. Maguire, V. McKinnon, and others, filled their roles with great credit.
“The Nervous Man and the Man of Nerve” was the second play of the evening, and the manner in which it was presented is worthy of commendation. Having witnessed a rehearsal of the play, we were fearful lest it would not be played as it should be. We were more than pleased to see that our fears were groundless, and that the young men acquitted themselves in an excellent manner. Mr. W. T. Ball (Aspen) was a nervous man, and played his part to the delight of all. “ McShane,” the man of nerve, found an able personator in the person of Mr. F. B. Devoto, who kept the audience in exceeding good humor. J. G. Ewing (Lord Leech), Carl Otto (Capt. Burnish), and J. J. Gillen (Lord Lounge), were unusually happy in the conception and execution of the parts assigned them. B. L. Euans (Dr. Oxyde) and H. C. Cassidy (Vivian) took their parts with credit; while J. M. Rourke (Biggs) and C. Roberston (Bob) kept the house in excellent humor. E. S. Monohan (Topknot), E. G. Graves (Clackett), J. Caren (Dick), A. K. Schmidt (Fred Vivian), J. Dechant (Merton), R. McGrath, J. Dwyer, H. Maguire, J. Connolly, J. Flannigan, L. Evers, J. Halley, W. McGorrisk, J. Blackburn and J. [McEnery took the parts assigned them in a manner which did them great credit. The Entertainment was highly successful, and was enjoyed by a select audience, which at intervals showed appreciation by loud applause. Prof. Lyons is entitled to all praise for the manner in which he conducted the Exhibition—and this we believe every one will award him. At the conclusion of the last play, Rev. P. J. Golovin addressed the audience in a few patriotic words, complimenting the actors on their success, and referring to the glorious anniversary so grandly celebrated at Notre Dame
*5
The Notre Dame Scholastic.
In the good old days of Notre Dame, the students of the College had a semi-monthly magazine called the “ Progress,” which rarely passed beyond the manuscript edition. Its origin is due to Messrs. John Collins, J. H. Fleming, B. B. Barron and F. C. Bigelow. The first paper was called “ The Notre Dame Literary Gazette,” and was passed around among the students. The very first number was destroyed in a summary manner, and this destruction in-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
409
spired John Collins to start the “Progress,” and have it read publicly for all the students. Mr. Collins edited the first number, in the year 1858 or 1859. Other numbers were edited by T. E. Howard, General Robert Healy, James B. Runnion, A. J. Stace, Philip Carroll, D. M. M. Collins, M. O’Reilly, J. M. Howard, L. G. Tong, and others. All articles were copied for the paper by a committee of publishers, the most famous of whom were Chamberlain, Fleming and Horatio Colvin. As these young men wrote similar hands, the “get up” of the “Progress” was very tasty, while the form of publication gave great satisfaction to all. The reading of the “ Progress ” was looked forward to as a sort of celebration, and everybody flocked to the large study hall to hear it read. Although the editors of the “ Progress ’’ were students, the paper was to a great extent under the direction of the late Rev. N. H. Gillespie, and many of the editors of ’61 and ’62 remember with pleasure the kind assistance given them by him, and editors and contributors of those years still recall the so* cial times they enjoyed over oysters and the like, about once a month. When Father Gillespie went to France, in 1863> the publication of the “Progress” was suspended, after having lasted some four or five years, and the College Literary talent found no other vent than in such surreptitious publications as the “Weekly Bee” and others of a like character. On Father Gillespie’s return from France he found a printing office established at Notre Dame for the publication of the well-known Catholic periodical, the Ave Afaria. Ever zealous for the literary welfare of the students, he easily found means of procuring the issue of an. other paper from the same office, devoted to their interests, and to which the title of Scholastic Year was, after mature deliberation, given. It was founded in 1867, under Father Gillespie’s direction, and was issued semimonthly. During the year, an editrial corps, composed of students, was formed, under whose charge the paper was conducted until the end of the second term. Experience, however, showed that the editors of one week could not be made responsible for the editors of the previous one —that the Scholastic Year to preserve its unity and identity must be under one responsible editor, and the Director of Studies (an office at that time filled by Rev. Agus-tus Lemonnier), the following year, assumed the editorship ex officio, assisted by a numerous corps of contributors. It was found however, that the Director of Studies was too much occupied with the duties of his office to attend to the duties of editor, and in 1869 Rev. N. H. Gillespie again took charge of the paper, and the name was changed to the Notre Dame Scholastic. In 1871 ,it- was issued weekly instead of semi-monthly, and as such has been con. tinned. In 1872, Rev. M. B. Brown, then Director of Studied, assumed charge of the paper, changing the name to The Scholastic. Before the end of the year, however Father Brown found that his time was taken up by the duties of his office, and the paper was again placed in the
-hands of Rev. N. H. Gillespie, the editor of the Ave Afaria. Father Gillespie remained in charge of The Scholastic ‘until his death, which took place in 1874. On his death it .passed into its present hands, and in 1875 the old name of Notre Dame Scholastic was restored. Under this name we hope that it will be continued. The.present managers publish weekly eleven hundred and fifty copies.
—Tweed has solved the problems of rapid transit, large profits, and no returns.—Exchange.,	'
The Ave Maria.
The Ave Afaria is the name of a Catholic Journal devoted to the honor of the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame. It contains essays on subjects referring to the Blessed Virgin, articles on the different Festivals, edifying Tales, Historical and Biographical Sketches, choice Poetry, Items of Catholic News, a Weekly -Letter from Rome, etc.; also a regular Bulletin of the Association of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, with a record of some of the most remarkable cures effected by the miraculous water of Lourdes. There is also a Children’s Department, which is made as entertaining as possible for younger readers.
The Ave Afaria was begun in May 1865, by Very Rev. E. -Sorin, who with assistants acted as Editor for about a year and a half, and was succeeded in the year 1867 by the late -Rev. N. H. Gillespie, who remained Editor until his death> which took place in 1874. On the death of Rev. N. H. Gillespie a committee of four was appointed to conduct the paper, but before one year had elapsed the paper was placed in the hands of its present manager.
The Ave Afaria has a circulation of about eight thousand. Some of the best Catholic writers at home and abroad contribute to the pages of the Ave Afaria, among whom may be mentioned Henri Lasserre, Aubrey de Vere, Father Lambing, Lady Georgiana Fullerton, Grace Ram? say, Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Eliza Allen Starr, the Misses Howe, the Authoress of “Ty-bome,” and others.
The subscription price is two dollars and a half per annum. It is, including the cover, a twenty-four page paper, 10x7i£ inches, and has a very handsome appearance. .
During the past two years this publication has been greatly improved and has gained new popularity with Catholic readers. We are happy to state that its prospects were never brighter.
Works of Art at the CoHege.
Among the works of art at Notre Dame we might mention a statue of the Blessed Virgin by Andraeni, a statue of the Blessed Virgin by Giandfredi, a number of excellent busts and statuettes in alabaster, two portraits of the Pope by Gregori, one life-size, a portrait, life-size, of Very Rev. E. Sorin, by Gregori, and a portrait of Rev. A. Lemonnier. Among the oil paintings are two pictures of the Holy Family, an Adoration of the Afagi, the Spousals of St. Catherine, an Annunciation, a Afadonna and Child, a Afadonna del Sacro Cuore, an Immaculate Conception, a Afadonna with book, a Afater Amabilis, a copy of Raphael’s Afadonna della Seggiola, a Afater Pietatis, the Pcelaggio by Gregori, and many other madonnas, etc. In the church are several frescoes, notably those of the Brazen Serpent and Christ Walking on the Waters. There are also four of the Stations of the Cross painted by Gregori, which are admired by every one. There are two other works of art in the church which should be mentioned, viz.: the new sanctuary lamp, one of the finest in the world; and the crown which hangs above the altar, on which are painted in miniature the fifteen Mysteries of the Rosary. The grand altar Crucifixion presented to Notre Dame by the late Emperor Napoleon HI, and the ostensoriuin, the gift of the Empress Eugenie, are also excellent works of art. The stained glass windows now being placed in the church were made in Europe by first-class workmen, and are of more than ordinary merit.
410
THE NO TEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Religious Societies.
The Archconfraternity is the oldest and most venerable society in the College. It was established in 1845, one year after the College was chartered. Until the present time its membership was confined to the Collegiate and Commercial Departments, but at the beginning of the year a branch was established in the Preparatory Department entirely independent of the older Society. Both Societies hold their meetings monthy, and attend the Saturday Mass in the College chapel. At one time the Archconfraternity numbered as many as one hundred members in the Collegiate and Commercial Departments.
The Sodality of the Holy Angels was first organized by Rev. If. H. Gillespie in the spring of 1857. In the year 1858, Prof. J. A. Lyons reorganized the Sodality, and made the principal duty of the members that of serving in the Sanctuary on Sundays and holidays. The Sodality existed in the Preparatory Department from 1858 up to last year, when the members were limited to those of the Minim Department. This present year the name was changed to the “ Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary,” and the objects of the Society enlarged.	.
The Society of the Holy Childhood is a branch of the extensive and well-known Society bearing that name, and has been established among the Minims for the last eight years.
Although not college societies, nor connected with the College, there are established at Notre Dame a number of religious societies the members of which are scattered throughout the United States. The Association of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart was canonically established at Notre Dame some ten or twelve years ago, and numbers among its members in the United Sates somewhere near a hundred thousand people. The Association of Prayer ■for the Clergy was established at Notre Dame in 1874.
The CoHege Libraries and Museum.
In the Silver Jubilee we find the following account of the College Library.- “ It contains 7,000 volumes, exclusive of the books contained in a great many special libraries in and about the College, which would swell the total number to more than 10,000. Within the last two years valuable works have been procured. In a recent trip to Europe, Rev. J- C. Carrier imported a large and valuable collection of standard works, in ancient and modern languages, and in the various branches of ecclesiastical and profane science. As the Library was first formed by bringing together private libraries, obtained through donations or purchase, the fact cannot be concealed that a certain number of books are of little value; yet, on the other hand, it is exceedingly rich in rare and standard works: for instance, it possesses no less than 17 different encyclopedias, namely: Rees’, 42 vols.; Metropolitana, 24; Londinensis, 25; Chambers’; Catholique, 21; New American, 26; Britannica, 15; Theo-logique, 39, etc, etc. Cursus Gompldus Scriptural Sacra, 28 vols; Cursus Completus Theologies, 25; the complete works of all the Fathers of the Church, 145; the classical authors: Greek, Latin, French, English, German, Italian; five different Ecclesiastical Histories: Rohrbacker, 29 vols.; Fleury, 30; Berault-Bercastel, 25; Darras, 4, and Cantu, 12; besides other smaller works on the same subject; complete sets of Brownson, Universite Catholique, etc.
Among the old and rare works may be mentioned an Hiad -of 1520, Basle—a very fine and correct edition; a Tertul-. lian and St. Cyprian of about the same date;—Ruins of Palinque; Mexico; Histoire (TAmerique, etc., etc.
The Lemonnier Circulating Library was started in 1873 by the late Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, and now contains about three thousand well-selected volumes. About five hundred dollars are spent annually in the purchase of books, which are for the use of the students of the College. It contains complete sets of the Edinburgh Review, Blackwood's Magazine, the Atlantic Monthly, the Catholic World, besides most of the standard works on history, biography, travels, poetry, etc., etc.
The Ave Maria Library, adjoining the room of the Rev.	>
Editor, at the Presbytery, contains a good number of stand-	'
ard works on Theology, Ecclesiastical History, Philosophy, etc., etc., besides complete sets of the principal Reviews and Magazines.	.
There are other small libraries about Notre Dame, the	<
most notable being those of the Novitiate and the Scholas-	,
ticate.	।
The Silver Jubilee says of the Museum : “ In the Museum	*
are to be found collections of birds and quadrupeds,	{
stuffed, and lithographed in colors;—of plants, both	i
foreign and native, 4000 species, and more than 1200 specimens of the former, with upwards of 1400 of the latter.	£
Also, minerals and fossils, shells, eggs and nests, insects and reptiles. In addition to which there may be seen In-	*
dian, Chinese, and other curiosities. More than 8000 spec-	’
imens had been collected by Rev. Father Carrier, the for	i
mer Curator of the Museum, besides very many he had re-	j
ceived from kind friends and correspondents.”	gj
The present curator, Rev. J. A. Zahm, has added consid-	’>
erably to this collection. The Cabinet has been removed	j
to Science Hall, where they are shown to much better ad-	t
vantage than in the room which they formerly occupied.	>
Great additions have been made to the Chemical Laboratory, and a large number of philosophical instruments are	?>
expected soon from Europe to augment the number al-	j
ready here.	j
In the observatory there is a fine telescope, presented to	I
the University, by the late Emperor Napoleon IH, of	|
France. It is under the charge of T. E. Howard, Professor	|
of Astronomy.	f
Amusements at Notre Dame.	k
The College authorities have ever encouraged outdoor	f
amusements afhong the students, knowing that young men	■
devoted to study, by neglecting those, not unfrequently in-	J
jure their health. Hence every opportunity is afforded	|
young men to take exercise during the hours of recreation.	4
The Boating Club was established at Notre Dame some	;
eight or ten years ago, and has now in its possession two	i
good boats, three of their boats being now put away as	;
useless. The first record we have of a race was that which	j
took place in 1870, when, the “Santa Maria” J. R. Boyd,	*
captain, won the cup. In 1871 the cup was won by the	j
“Pinta,” Robt. Finley, Cap’t.; in 1872 by the “Pinta,”	I
P. J. O’Connell, Cap’t.; in 1873 by the “Pinta,” H. W.
Walker, Cap’t.; in 1874 by the “Minnehaha,” D. J.
Hogan, Cap’t.; and in 1875 by the “Hiawatha,” E. G.
Graves, Cap’t. In the winter of 1875-6 the members of	«
the club adopted the name of the “ Lemonnier Boat Club ”	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
411
in honor of the Rev. A. Lemonnier, who when living always took great interest in the affairs of the club.
Of baseball clubs, the number has been very great. Eleven years ago there were three good playing nines, and good players are by no means scarce now. In ’66, the Juanita was the local champion club; in ’67, the Juanita; in ’68, the Juanita; in ’69, the Enterprise; in ’70, the Star of the West; in ’71, the Star of the West; in ’72, the Star of the West; in ’73, the Excelsior; in ’74, the Star Of the East, and in ’75, the Juanita. The most distinguished clubs in the past have been the “ Juanita ” (which we believe is also the oldest), the “ Star of the East,” the “ Star of the West,” the “ Excelsior,” the “ Collegiate Nine,” and the “ University Nine.” Before baseball came in vogue, an attempt was made to establish the game of cricket; but though a club was formed, and lasted some three years, the game did not appear to be so german to the country as baseball, and for years no cricket club has been in existence at the College.
Military exercises were in the olden time greatly encouraged at Notre Dame. A company, named the “Continental Cadets,” was formed among the students, in 1859 and lasted until the breaking out of the war. The uniform worn was the venerable and picturesque buff and blue uniform which Washington and the heroes of the Revolution have hallowed. Of the members of this company at least two-thirds (jptered the army during the war. Genl’s Lynch and Healy, Capts. Lonergan, Cottin, Healy, and others, received commissions from the Government. We have heard the names of quite a number who fell in battle, but as we have not the names of all, we prefer not mentioning those told to us.
Alley-ball, swimming, fishing, hunting, skating, etc., are indulged in by many.
Personal.
—Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of ’58, was at Notre Dame, on the 22d.
—Arthur Riopelle, of ’71, was here at the beginning of the week.
—R. V. Tillman, of ’66, is married, and resides in St. Louis, Mo.
—Mrs. Oatman and Mrs. Clarke, of Chicago, were here on Tuesday last.
—Mr. Cash, of Chicago, was at the College at the beginning of the week.
—Mr. 0. C. Ludwig, of Chicago, paid a visit to Notre Dame a few days ago.
-Rev- D. Tighe, of ’70, and Rev. J. O’Flanagan, came over from Chicago, on the 22d.
—Rev. A. Granger has now almost completely recovered from his recent attack of illness.
—Mrs. Dr. Pierce and Miss Wells, of Lamont, DI., spent the first part of the week at Notre Dame.
—Francis B. Shephard, of’66, is attending law classes in the Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.
—Mr. Wm. Hake came over from Grand Rapids, Mich., to witness the Exhibition on Tuesday night last.
—Mr. Thomas Nelson and Mr. K. G. Schmidt, of Chicago, were at the Thespian Exhibition on Tuesday last.
—Prof. Stace, Prof. Schnurrer, and Prof, and Mrs. Ivers, of South Bend, attended the Thespian Entertainment.
—J. D. McCormick, of ’73, is the Junior member of the firm of Fritter & McCormick, Attorneys at Law, Lancaster, Ohio.
—Prof. Howard and lady, Miss Nellie Talley of South Bend, and Mrs. Flaherty and daughter, of Niles, Mich., were present at the Exhibition on Tuesday last.
—Rev. Dr. Hallinan, of Lafayette, Ind., Hev. M. Noll, of Elkhart, Ind., Rev. Mr. Ehrenstrasser, of Grand Rapids, Mich., Rev; Jos. Pulcher, of Grand Rapids, Mich., Rev. J. Maugey, of Lafayette, Ind., Rev. E. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, Ind., and Rev. H. Brown, of Youngstown, Ohio, were present at the Entertainment given on the 22d.
—Among those present at the Entertainment on the 22d were Hon. Wm. C. McMichael, the Misses McMichael, Mr. Van Winkle, Prof, and Mrs. Tong, Mrs. Stace, Mayor Miller, of South Bend; Prof. Lewis, of Philadelphia; Mr. A. Dowling, of Laporte; Miss Walsh, of Chicago; S. Newmark, of Cleveland, Ohio, and a large number of people from different places. We cannot mention the names of all, because their names have not been given us.
Local Items.
—Veh-wy! .	'
—Splendid weather on the 22nd.
—Gardening will soon be in order.
—The Columbians on the 17th of March.
—The rings are used freely these fine days.
—The number of people at the Exhibition was great
—Not a single person in the Infirmary on Monday and Tuesday last.
—One of the tables in the Junior hall was destroyed this last week.	•
—Shaving was the go last Tuesday. The Anti-shaving Club disbanded.
—Wednesday, at breakfast, 11 to 7^ was the score in the musicians’ favor.	“
—Although the sun shone brightly on the 22d, it became quite cold and stormy in the evening.
—Rev. J. A. O’Connell will deliver in Science Hall, in a few weeks, a lecture on “English Literature.”
—It will be an improvement when seats are put in Science Hall, which will be the case in two or three weeks.
—As may be seen in the personal column, many Clergymen honored the Thespians with their presence on the 22d.
—The next lecture in Science Hall, apart from those of the regular Scientific course, will be by Prof A. J. Stace, on Coast Surveys.
—The student who translated “Domitianus questorium virum movit senatu,” by “Domitian made a questor dance in the senate,” ought to be sent to the Centennial.
—The lecture on Astronomy delivered in Science Hall on the 20th by Prof. Howard was an excellent discourse, and worthy the eminent ability of the learned lecturer. It was listened to with evident pleasure by a large and appreciative audience.
—The Centennial Base Ball Club, of the Senior Department, held a meeting the 20th, and elected the following officers: Bro. Norbert, Director; Geo. Fishburn, President; W. Fowler, Vice-President; F. G.Bearss, Secretary; F. O.Rettig,Treasurer; E.Fishburn, Censor; H.Leonard, Field Director.
—The Scholastic Alwanac for 1876. Compiled by J. A. Lyons. Notre Dame, Ind.: The Scholastic PrintingOffice. A very handsomely brought-out almanac, containing much interesting reading-matter, both in prose and poetry. The tint of the paper, however, is a little too dark.—New York Tablet.
—Last week we said of “Spot,” that noble dog, that feeding him was like pouring water down a rat-hole. For this we are threatened by his master with a libel suit. We take it all back; it is not like pouring water down a rat-hole; it’s like shovelling grain into an elevator. There! we know that is no libel.	*
—We would like very much to have students send us the names of friends visiting Notre Dame. Sometimes it happens that friends of the house come to the College and leave without the Editor knowing that they were here. We try to make ourselves ubiquitous, but it is impossible to see everybody that comes here; hence we must trouble our friends for this information.
—The 13th regular meeting of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held on Sunday, Feb. 20th, Rev. T. D. Collins, C. S. C., presiding. An election of officers took place, at which Master O. W. Lindberg was elected Secre
'	Ml
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
-412
tary, Master Lee J. Frazee Standard-bearer, and Master F. A. Campau Censor. After an address from the President, Rev. T. D. Collins, the meeting adjourned.
____Our thanks are due to Professor J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, for a copy of the Scholastic At.manao. This is a compilation of articles which -from time to time appeared in the Scholastic—an excellent weekly journal published at the above institution. The selections in prose and verse are judiciously varied, and will afford abundant entertainment and instruction to the general reader. Price twenty-five cents.—Catholic Union.
—Professor J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, has placed us under obligations by forwarding to our address a copy of the Scholastic Almanac. Besides supplying the reader with all that he would expect to find in any well-arranged almanac, this annual is replete with excellent selections in prose and verse from the Scholastic— an interesting weekly journal published at the aforesaid institution. Among the selections will be found a beautiful poetical tribute to the memory of the late Rev. Neal H. Gillespie, C. S. C.—one of the many Catholic cousins to the present distinguished Representative from Maine, •Hon. James Gillespie Blaine.—Lake Shore Visitor.
—A man ought not to get too enthusiastic in his work. Witness the great zeal displayed by certain gentlemen procuring specimens for the Cabinet. A certain bird was wanted to make complete the collection of winged warblers of Northern Indiana now on exhibition in Science Hall, and three men started out to secure it. They soon found the bird they wanted, perched upon a bough, and a shot was fired, but instead of hitting the bird the shot grazed the cheek of a workman near. Now he had serious objections to being made a specimen of for the Museum, and so great were his remonstrances that for some time it was feared he would make use of his pitchfork and drop the scientific gentlemen into the lake. Being assured that it was all a mistake, he got into the forgiving mood and now “ all is quiet on the Potomac.”
—The banquet given by the St Cecilia Philomathean Association was a very recherche affair. After justice was ■ done the viands, the following toasts were read:
Pope Pius IX. Beloved by the good, and admired even by ' the bad; the defender of liberty from anarchy on the one hand, and from despotism on the other. Posterity will place him by the side of Gregory VU and Innocent III, as the wise guardian of the right and the courageous champion of civilization.
Responded to by Rev. Father Golovin.
The President of the United States. The elected Chief of a free people, the most exalted civil oflicer of the most favored nation on the face of the globe. May the office ever be filled with wisdom and virtue, and the free institutions of the land be maintained in their original integrity.
Rev. T. Walsh responded to this toast.
Our College Days. The time when we are happy without knowing it, the time when we are wise in our own fancy; a time to be enjoyed in memory more than it is in possession.
Responded to by Rev. C. Kelly.
Very Rev. Father Sorin : Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and Founder of the University of Notre Dame. Spared to us by a special providence, and preserved amid the dangers of shipwreck to continue the good works he has so long and faithfully pursued, may his virtues stimulate us to imitation, while they spontaneously excite our admiration.
Responded to by Prof. T. E. Howard.
The Literary, Religious and Dramatic Societies of Notre Dame. The just pride and ornament of their Alma Mater. May the numbers of distinguished men who have gone forth from their ranks to fill honorable and useful positions in society at large be to us a guarantee of their genuine worth and a stimulus urging us to profit by the advantages received in their membership.
Responded to by Prof. A. J. Stace.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Bearss, W. Ball, • F. Belford, J. Campbell, P. Cooney, F. Claffey, J; Connolly, R., Califins, J. Cooney, H. Cassidy, T. Carroll, P. Corbett, J. Cole,
man, J. D. Coleman, F. Devoto, H. Dehner, J. Dwyer, J. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, B. Euans, J. Evans, W. Fogarty, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, J. Handley, J. Hermann, P. Hennessy, S. Kennedy, F. Keller, P. Kennedy, J. Kreutzer, W. Kelly, J. Kelly, E. Monohan, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, H. Maguire, R. Maas, F. Maas, S. Miller, J. Miller, P. McCawley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, W. McGor-risk, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, M. McCue, P. Neill, J. Neid-hardt, H. O’Brien, Carl Otto, A. O’Brien, J. Perea, T. Peifer, W. Pollard, T. Quinn, M. Regan, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, G. Sullivan, F. Vandervannet, W. Wells, R. White, F. Schlink, J. Egan, L. W. Proudhomme, F. Brady.
junior department.
W. Arnold, T. J. Byrnes, A. Burger, J. Carrer, W. Connelly, E. Collins, W. Corbin, J. Cavanaugh, W. Davis, F. Ewing, J. Foley, J. French, J. Fox, F. Flanagan, P. Frane, C. Gustine, S. Goldsberry, H. Faxon, C. Faxon, P. Hagan, W. Hake, F. Hoffman, J. Healey, A. Hamilton, M. Halley, H. Henkel, J. Kinney, M. Kauffman, O. Ludwig, R. Mayer, J. McClory, M. McAuliffe, D. Nelson, J. L. Nelson, C. Orsinger, J. O’Meara, C. Peltier, F. Phelan, E. Riopelle, F. Rosa, J. Reynolds, A. Ryan, S. Ryan, E. Raymond, H. Scott, P. Schnurrer, G. Sugg, L. Smith, W. Taulby, P. Tumble, J. Mosal, W. Irvine, C. Campau, J. English, E. Hall, A. K. Schmidt, C. Schubert, C. Walsh.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. A. Duffield, T. F. McGrath, O. W. Lindberg, M. Gustine, G. Lowerey, Lee J. Frazee, F. A Campau, G. Rhodius, R. Pleins, J. Davis, H. Hake, W. Ryan, O. Stanton, P. Heron, J. A. Bushey, J. Seeger, J. Haney, P. Haney, C. Long, B. Morris, E. Oatman, C. Bushey, G. Lambin.	•
i *
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, FEB. 24, 1876.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
'J. H. Quinn, P. McCawley, G. Fishburn, S. Kennedy, J. Coleman, E. Fishburn, C. Saylor, P. W. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, F. Vandervannet, H. O’Brien, W. H. Wells, F. Keller, W. Kreigh, R. Calkins, L. McCollum, J. Harkin, R. White, J. Dwyer/P. Flanigan, J. C. O’Rourke, M. Cross, G. Frauenknecht, W. Pollard, J. Hermann, J. Neidhart, F. Schlink, P. McCullough, F. P. Brady, J. Kreutzer, E. S. White, J. Dempsey, J. Krost, T. Carroll, P. Corbett, J. Smith, J. Peifer, H. Faxon, C. Gustine, D. Nelson, C. Roos, J. Foley, C. V. Larkin, G. Sugg, F. Hoffman, M. Kauffman, C. Hagan, W. Hake, W. G. Morris, A McIntosh, E. Raymond.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Coolbaugh, W. McDevitt, W. Van Pelt, B. Morris, C. Bushey, G. Lambin, C. Long, H. McDonald.

St. Mary’s Academy, Feb. 22,1876.
Friend Scholastic:—Young America is all aglow with patriotism, and the spirit of ’76 pervades the whole school. Flags are waving gracefully over the doors of the different departments, and red, white, and blue decorations are worn by the enthusiastic admirers of him, who, when he was a Minim, would not tell a lie—and as a consequence developed into a noble Senior and graduated as the “ Father of his Country.” Patriotism will culminate this evening in a grand display of dramatic talent in which Seniors, Juniors, and Minims will firm united be in celebrating this glorious anniversary. Speaking of flags, the Centennial graduates are very grateful to their former classmate, Miss G. W., for the package of flags sent from Manitou Springs, Col., just in time for the present occasion. Oh, if she had on\y_brought these flags, there would have been an extra amount of jubilation among the “ Centennials.” The grand centennial cavalcade that started from St. Mary’s on the 20th was decidedly interesting, whether considered as representing western travel in 1776, or as representing merry travellers in 1876—ten vehicles drawn by twenty spirited farm horses, said vehicles, each containing from twelve to twenty merry maidens, made quite a novel display on the Niles road, and though said maidens are ranked as serious Seniors, there was as much
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
413
merriment as if they were the merry Minims and Juniors who.on the 13th had the same style,of an excursion in a different direction. The reading of Compositions, after the distribution of good notes on last Sunday, was by Misses Eugenia and Mathilda Thompson and Miss C. Morgan. The young ladies did well, and if they persevere to the end they will feel quite at ease when called on to read their graduating essays. The pupils of St. Mary’s are delighted with the fact that in the last news from Rome they find that the courteous Ex-Ablegate, Monsignor Roncetti, still remembers with great satisfaction his reception at St. Mary’s Academy and speaks with admiration of the high educational advantages possessed by its pupils. Praise from such a high source is encouraging. The bright pleasant days bring many visitors to the Academy—among them old friends and new; all are welcome. Please give the enclosed little poem a place in the Scholastic, and oblige, Yours Respectfully.
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, M. Eaxon F. Dilger, M. Dunbar, M. Brady, M. Walsh, L. Kelly, J. Pierce,, A. Dennehey, K. Hutchinson, M. Thompson, S. Moran, S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, S. Swalley, L. Tighe, H. Hand, M. Markey, C. Morrill, L. Weber and M. Hallinan, received 100 by excellence. Misses A. Clarke, H. Eoote,M. Riley, E. Dennehey, I. Reynolds, L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Julius, L. Johnson, B. Wade, L. Henrotin_, E. Mann, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Cravens, M. Spier, E. O’Kiel, R. Casey, A. Heneberry, J. Kreigh, R. Neteler, H. Russell, E. Thompson, M. Gaynor, E. O’Connor, I. Maas, T. O’Brien, E. Cannon, S. Cash, M.Usselman, A. Miller, L. Leppig, F. Gurney, R. Filbeck, A. McCormack, received 100.	-
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Hogan*, A. Cavenor*, N. Johnson*, N. Mann*, A. Harris*, N. McGrath, M- Derby, M. Hoffman, L. Chilton, A. McGrath, L. Faulkner, A. Koch, A. Morgan, A. Morris,'M. Ewing, H. Dryfoos, A. Cullen, M. McGrath, I. Fisk, J. Holladay, M. Brooks, D. Gordon, M. Schultheis.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Mulligan*, J. Smith*, M. Hughes*, C. Hughes*, E. Simpson*, M. Fehen*, M. Lambin*, R. Goldsberry*, J. Duffield*, M. McCormack*, C. Trull*, M. McFadden*, A. Ewing, A. Morris, A. Duffield*, L. Schnurrer* A. Schnurrer*.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
1st Class—Miss R. Neteler.
3rd Class—Misses L. Ritchie, M. and E. Thompson, M. Schultheis, P. Gaynor and S. Moran.
4th Class—Misses M. O’Connor, K. Morris, J. Mitchell, A. Harris and J. Kreigh.
5th Class—Miss D.'Cavenor.
PAINTING IN WATER COLORS.
2d Class—Miss L. Henrotin.
4th Class—Misses R. Neteler, A. Cullen, E. Lange, A. Koch. OIL PAINTING.
1st Class—Miss B. Wade.
2d Class—Miss C. Morgan. HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Foote, E. O’Connor, Devoto and Henrotin. 2d Div.—Misses D. Cavenor and Riley.
2d Class—Misses M. Gaynor and Arnold. 2d Drv.—Misses Byrnes, A. Dennehey, Morgan, E. Dennehey and Cannon.
3d Class—Misses Bennett, S. Edes. M. Walsh, E. Edes, A. Walsh, Cash, Mitchell, L. Walsh, I. Edes, Gordon, A. Cavenor and King. 2d Div.—Misses J. Morris, H. Julius, R. Casey, Wade, Johnson and O’Meara.
[THE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with niw, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, 1 ___ . .
CAPTAIN MILLS, (Proprietors.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 21,1875, trains will leave South Bend aa follows:
GOING EAST.
3 40 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 10 30: Clevelands pm; Buffalo 9 15.
IO 12 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35pm; Cleveland 10 15.
11 a m, Special New York Express, over Air lane; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo! 05am.
_9 13 p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 C5; Buffalo, 1 lOp m.
7 53 pm, Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 30; Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 pm.
4 <40 p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.	_
3 40a m, Express. Arrives at Laporte 415p m, Chicago 6 30 am
8^5 3Oam, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45; Chicago
3 pm. Evening Express. Arrives at Lapcrte 3 55; Chicago, 630 ■
5 43 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5'45. Chicago. 8 20.
S OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago 11 30 a. m.
9 IO a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
PHILADELPHIA BAZAR.
s. pollack:,	'
97 Michigan St., SOUTH BEND, IND. '
A new and complete assortment of Hosiery, Gloves, Fancy Goods, White Goods. Embroideries, Laces, Ribbons, Artificials, Parasals, Sun Umbrellas, etc. Agents for Domestic Patterns. Large stock of Zephyr Germantown Works’ Yarns.
Gents’ Furnishing Goods A Specialty. .
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 31. 1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	[tAtlanti (Express.	t Night ■ Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	I 5 15 p.m	I*9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 01 “	6 35 “	7 43 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		9 02 “	12 15 p.m	8 30 “	8 55 “	12 45 “
“ Jackson...L	2 12 p.m	4 05 “	7 00 a.m	12 47 a.m	4 55 ••
Ar. Detroit		5 45 “	6 30 “	10 15 “	3 50 “	■8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 50 a m	4 CO p-m	5 40 p.m	9 50 “
“ Jackson		10 37 “	12 30 p.m	715 “	9 25 “	12 45 aan
“ Niles		3 40 p,m	4 19 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 15 “	5 45 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 45 “
Ar. Chicago		7 35 *‘	8 00 “	10 20 l*	6 30	8 00 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
GOING NORTH. .	'
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p.m.	§9 OG	a.m.
“ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7	23 “	9	07	“
Ar.Niles— 9 00 “	8	00 “	9	40	“
GOING SOUTH. -
Lv. Niles— 6 30 a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00	ami.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4	56 “	8	32	“
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5	05 “	8	40	*‘
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “
7 40 “
§5 00 p.m
5 32 “
5 40 «
♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted.'
§Sunday only.
G. L. Elliott,	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt*., Notre Dame.
414
THE NOTRE DAME SHOLASTIC.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
e	DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL,
Opposite the Post Office, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. Rates, S2.OO Per Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to he the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Bnren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10	15 a.m.	4	00 p.m.
Peru accommodation.................... 5	00 p.m.	9	30	a.m.
Night Express.......................  10	00 p.m.	6	15	a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent. ,	General Superintendent.
„ PIANOS! “THE STECK”
WAS AWARDED THE ONLY COLD MEDAL AT VIENNA EXPOSITION OF 1873. BY THE MOST EXACTING AND INCORRUPTIBLE JURY EVER CONVENED AND IN THE FACE OF THE MOST POWERFUL COMPETITION. THESE PIANOS ARE UNEXCELLED IN POWER AND PURITY OF TONE AND PERFECTION OF GENERAL MECHANISM, WHILE IN POINT OF DURABILITY THEY ABSOLUTELY SURPASS ALL OTHERS.
CEN’L AGENTS IN CHICACO-THE
ROOT £ SONS
MUSIC CO.
The Naturalists’ Agency
Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, -Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of specimens of Natural History an opportunity of buying and selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plants, &c., &c • Nearly aU the collectors in America, and many of those in Europe, will visit this city during 1876, so that this win be the best opportunity ever offered for disposing of and purchasing specimens. My store-rooms are within ten min-utes’ walk of the Centennial grounds, on the line of the Chestnut-street cars. I shall also have a branch within one minute’s walk of the main building. I have already in stock over $30,000 worth of specimens, including the finest specimens ever found of Amazon stone, brookite or arkansite, perofskite, nigrin, green wavellite, peganite, tellurium ores, feldspar, albite, petrified wood, smoky quartz; the birds and animals peculiar to the Rocky Mountains, &c., &c. I have spent nearly $7,000 during the past year in the collection and purchase of specimens. Special attention given to collections for schools and colleges. Correspondence solicited, with those wishing to buy or sell specimens, at an early date, as an illustrated catalogue will be issued before the 1st of May. I refer to
Prof. GEO. J. BRUSH, Dr. JOSEPH LEIDY, Prof. ASA GRAY, Prof. J. S. NEWBURY;
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Fedow of the A. A. A. S., Prof. Chemistry and Joineralogy.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and Denver Express via Jack-
sonville,. El., and Louisiana, Mo......3	10 pm 12 00 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. ria Main Line.7 50 pm' 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex.ria
Main Line..............................7 30 am 9 40 pm
Peoria Day Express...............••••... .7 5o pm 9 30 am
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.... .7 50 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 10 pm 12 00 pm Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20 am 4 30 pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
CL HZ- SHEEREE,,
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’'Furnishing Goods, Etc., HO Miclxigan Street, SOUTH ZJBHnsriD IJSTZD.
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARUS ’BPS LINE!
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
Attached to the National Hotel, and. A d-jacent to the Ivalee Shore and.
Nticlii^an Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet yeen Noire Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot, I sha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mai j’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
■	P.SHICKEY.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	415
M. Livingston & Co.,
THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Send
They Have tlie Best Cutter In tlie City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Cloths, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents' Fui'iiishing Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
BEMEMBEB THE PLACE,
91 MICHIGAN* St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
McDonald,
THE T’ElOTOG-jE^A.T’ZEZETL,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage ehed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, eic., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For farther information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
ROOT & SONS MUSIC CO.
OFFER SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO PURCHASERS—AT WHOLESALE AND RETAIL-OFtFOREICN AND DOMESTIC SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS, THEIR OWN IMPORTATION OF VIOLIN AND GUITAR STRINGS, ACCORDEONS, CONCERTINAS, FLUTES, GUITARS, VIOLINS; PICCOLOS CLARIONETS, HARMONICAS, DULCIMERS, ZITHERS, VIOLAS, VIOLONCELLOS, AND BRASS AND GERMAN SILVER BAND INSTRUMENTS;. ALSO PIANOS AND ORGANS, OR ANY ARTICLE IN THE LIKE OF MUSICAL MERCHANDISE. A GENERAL NORTHWESTERN ^AGENTS FOR THE STECKiPIANO AND STANDARD ORGAN? QUALITY GUARANTEED. CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS FURNISHED FREE. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.	’
156 STATE1 ST.'
^CHICAGO?
Go to HENRY HELLER, THE CHAMPION' Barber and Hair-Dresser, 87 MICHIG-AJXT ST.
Work done to satisfaction. Give me a call.
THE BEST
School Music Books.,
HIGH SCHOOL CHOIS.
Seminaries, and High Schools. Songs in 2, 3 and 4 parts.
$1.00.
fnm'TftV1 rtt! For 3 Female voices. Full of the X** Ww. best of fine music for Seminaries
$1.00.
AMERICAN SCHOOL
MUSIC READERS
in 3 books, 35 cts., 50 cts., and 50 cts. Find graded course for Primary and Grammar Schools. All the preceding works are compilations of those thorough teachers and composers^ L. O. Emerson and W. S. Tilden.	•
CHEERFUL VOICES. &3BFTX National Hymn & Tune Book, (40 cts.) Contains the best collection of Sacred Music extant for opening and closing schools.
We also call attention to those excellent collections of School Songs: “Merry Chimes,” “Golden Wreath,” “Nightingale,” and “Golden Kobin,” each 50 cts.; to “Deems’ Solfeggios,” “Panseron’s A B C,” Perkins’ Orphean,” “ Hour of Singing,” all for the higher schools, Mason’s great Music Charts, SS, and Dr. Streeter’s treatise on “ Primary Elements, 60 cts.
Successful Music Books.
GETZE’S SCHOOL FOB PABLOB OBGAW!
It is already in the hands of 30 000 learners and players on Reed Organs, and deserves this and greater success. Contains 176 graded lessons, including nearly 50 agreeable Pieces, a dozen Songs, and 25 short Voluntaries.	§2.50.
Centrnntxt, Coll, for Old Folks Concerts. New. .40
BELLAK’S
ANALYTICAL METHOD FOR PIANOFORTE.
As the very first instruction book, (for the first 3 months on the Piano), nothing could be better. Very easy pieces, nicely fingered and graded. Does away, mostly, with the dryness and drudgery of the first quarter. In Paper, 75 c.
A large, elegant collection of Choice Songs, with Piano or Reed Organ accompaniment. 232 pages, Sheet Music size. §2.50 in Boards; §3.00 in Cloth.	.
All books sent by mail, post-free, for retail price.
OLIVER DETSOK & CO.,
BOSTON.
J. E. DITSON & CO., CHAS. H. DITSON & CO.
Successors to Lee & Walker, 711 BroalW, Ihff IDES.
I»hila.	",
BYON & TITI ALC.Y. Chicago.
416
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
fctet
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
DR. 0. H. MIDDLETON,
ZDZEJSmST, ■ 109 MICHIGAN STZEdHKET, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
D. W. RUSS & CO.
KEEP THE STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS For Meals, Oysters, TOE OELHYYJVE, PIES, ETC-
MEALS AT	HOLES.
ESTABLISHED 1853.
M	& Bw.,
Dealers in BOOTS AUSTD SHOES. The Largest Re ailing House in the State comerof Wliu'gton sa ani Mean Sis., south bend.
“clothing HOUSE 1
METES LTVI3SrGSTO3Sr, 60 'WasHlngftoii St., Tte Book West ol Blum’s Cigar Store,	SOUTH BEND, IND
Keeps on hand a large stock of Hate, Caps, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
IHMK MATH
KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
■ Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS AND JEWELRY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENGHRAVLSTG- A SPECIALTY
Repairing Done in the Most Skillful Manner.
69 WASHINGTON, St„
SOTTTTT EHOSTE).'
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD,
(Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONER FOR ALL STATES, 206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special ^Attention Given to Depositions.
A. C. SHIRE, WHOLESALE gate im
1O1 Main Street, Two Doors South Of Ei. Gillen’s,	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
[Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
SPETH, Corner 'Wasliiiifrtoii and Micliigan Sts., (Under Coonley’s Drug Store)
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STBEET,
OX3ZXOA.G-O, ILLINOIS.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER,
MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gens’ Furnishing1 Goods, Hats, Caps, etc., 109 Michigan St.,
SOYTTEZ ZBZEJSTZD, TUSTZDIJATTJA.
Th® Baud
» *
A. McKay, IDrop., WILES, XAIOIXIG-AJST. Free Hack to and. from all Trains for Guests of the House The Students’ Office/ HElSTTa-Z- BTjYTNZT, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc
DTo. 51 Washington St., SOTTTXX BENE, IXTJD.