lotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlcturus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume X.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 16, 1876.	Number 15.
The First Sunrise.
There was no sun, but there was light, The bonds of darkness rending;
There was no earth, but shores of night
With seas of day were blending: And o’er the world, without a sound, In grand, eternal silence bound,
The dim-lit flood extending.
God spake the word ; up rose the earth,
The waters round it clinging;
And with glad wonder at its birth
The highest heavens were ring ng;
Through all the world a sound went out, The sons of God for joy did shout,
The morning-stars were singing.
There fell a silence from on high, And hush’d the wondrous story:
God spake, and sunrise drenched the sky,
And smote the mountain hoary;	■
Then burst from heaven a mighty song; The sons of God, so bright and strong,
Gave unto Him the glory.
—Exchange.
The Age of Louis XIV.
A LECTURE DELIVERED IN PHELAN HALL, NOTRE DAME, nov. 30th, 1876.
[Continued ]
Louis arrived at man’s estate to find everything prepared for French ascendency in Europe. The religious wars which for a century and a half had deluged all Europe with blood were at an end. The armies of the great Gustavus had fought side by side with those of the great Cardinal, and the treaty of Westphalia had inaugurated the whole system of modern politics and consecrated the final separation from the traditions of the past. After a struggle of two centuries the royal power stood supreme in the State The lofty genius of Richelieu, the subtle diplomacy of Mazarin, had crushed the rebellions nobles and sealed the fate of Huguenotism as a power within the land. Cromwell was dead, and with him for a time had departed the glory of England; Spain and Austria were humbled; Prussia was as yet only the electorate of Brandenburgh; and Russia politically was of as little importance as the duchy of San M irino. The role of France was unquestionably brilliant, and Louis was certainlv calculated to do justice to thesitu-atio i. Young, accomplished in all the arts of the day, of unbending pride and haughtiness, he was eager for glory as a Frenchma i only can be, and so zealous of his nation’s honor as to violate all principles of justice when he consid
ered it at stake. Spain seemed disposed to question his pre-eminence, and the grandson of Philip II was forced to humble himself before the grandson of Henry IV; Genoa gave umbrage, and her haughty doge, departing from the traditions of eight centuries, did ample and humble apology at Versailles; the populace of Rome offered some slight insult to the French pavilion, and an aged and venerable Pontiff underwent unmerited humiliation in requital. An era of splendor dawned upon France unparalleled in the annals of Europe. She was the mistress and guiding spirit of the world. French armies stemmed the tide of Moslem invasion on the banks of the Danube; La Salle planted the armies of France on the shores of the Mississippi; Conde and Turenne, Luxemburg and Villars everywhere led her legions to victory on land, and the fhg of France floated triumphant on every sea. Colbert inaugurated the modern financial system. Louvois organized the modern military system, and Vauban introduced and applied the modern system of fortification.
While France thus occupied so proud a position in a material point of view, her intellectual status was if possible still more glorious. Then appeared in her literary firmament that galaxy of genius whose brilliancy has outshone the lustre of all succeeding ages. Pascal astonished the world by the profundity of his conceptions, the vigor of his logic and the manly beauties of his diction; Bossuet, the Eagle of Meaux, soared at a dazzling height, distancing all the monuments of the past and leaving the future in amazement at so bold and lofty a flight; Corneille still gave proof that the genius which had produced the Cid and Polyeucte was not yet extinct; his genius, which triumphed over the jealousy of the all-powerful Richelieu, has also triumphed over the inconstancy and forgetfulness of posterity; he is still and always will be remembered as the great Corneille; Racine, rich with the treasures of classic Greece and Rome, was ready to enter the lists and eager to dispute the laurels of the aged champion; Molidre gave forth those inimitable masterpieces with which the dramas of Shakespeare alone can bear any comparison—as great in prose as in poetry, as profound in philosophy as he was keen in observation, he has sounded all the depths of the human heart, and in his picture of the men and manners of his own age and nation has left us the portrait of the men and manners;of every' nation and every age; Lafontaine, the ma’chless Lafontaine, invested the monologues, of 2Esop and Phae-drus a with charm which JE^op and Phaedras had never been able to impart; while Boileau propounded those canons of taste and criticism which for more than a century formed the literary creed of all Europe. Bourdaloue produced.those masterly expositions of Christian doctrine in which the pulpit orators of every age must find an inexhaustible source of wealth; in Fenelon
226
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the admiring world saw the intellect of Plato coupled with the sanctity of St. Francis.de Sales; buried in the solitude of the cloister, the youthful Massillon began to give token of those powers which were to be the glory of two reigns and the delight of after generations. French prose, so lofty and vigorous in Bossuet, so lively and piquant in La Brujiire, so harmonious in Fenelon, receives from a woman a finishing touch of delicacy and grace, and Mme. de Sevigne, the queen of the epistolary art, places herself, without suspecting it, on a footing with the greatest writers of the age. The development of philosophy, science and art kept pace with the progress of letters. Leibnitz was in ’ the pension of Louis; Huyghens had become his subject;
Lull! transferred to Paris a glory which had hitherto been monopolized by Florence and Rome; from the designs of Le Notre sprung as if by enchantment the wondrously beautiful Versailles; Poussin and Lesueur married the stately perfections of the old masters to the lighter graces of the Renaissance; Le Puget and-Mansard raised sculpture and architecture to the eminence which every art seems destined to reach in this age of wonders. French taste ruled everything, from the cut of a coat, the making of a bow or the shape of a coif, to the decision of a controverted point of literature; the French language then began and has ever since continued to be the language of courts and diplomacy ; pretentions foreigners took pride and pleasure in the use of copious French quotations; Dryden gloried nearly as much in his proficiency in French as in the u jquestioned excellence of his own productions; in short, intellectually, socially and politically, France was supreme.
Even more wonderful perhaps than the supremacy of France over Europe was the supremacy of Louis over France. Princes of greater ability there certainly have been; of more brilliant social quilities, of more exalted moral worth;—he had not the universal genius of Napoleon, the bluff, heart-winning manliness of Henry IV, or the Christian heroism of St. Louis, but yet no one has ever commanded more unreasoning submission or excited more devoted enthusiasm or more unbounded admiration. The brilliant court of Versailles—the nobility, clergy, army and people, all regarded him with a veneration almost amounting to idolatry. Poets exhausted their ingenuity in inventing for him flattering eulogies, varying in matter and style, from the
“ Grand Roi cesse de vaincre ou je cesse d’ecrire ” of Boileau, or the ode in which the same poet alludes to the want of judgment displayed by those people:
“ Qui dans se temps gnerrir et Second en Achilles
Croit que 1’on fait des vers comme 1’on prend des villes.” (i. e.) who believe that it is as easy for poets to grind out verses as it is for Louis to take the strongholds of Europe, to the less pretentious but more delicate effusion of the poet who retains possession of a confiscated property by inquiring of the Great Monarch :
“Qui faire de mon ile ? il n’y croit que des sanies Et tu n’aimes que le laurier.”
Leibnitz, in his letters advocating utopian projects, repeatedly refers to Louis as “that great man to whom everything seems possible.” And to confess the whole truth, however surprising or unpleasant, even Bossuet, the great Bossuet, yields to the prevailing infatuation, and shows himself ready to sacrifice principles which must have been self-evident to his vast erudition and lofty genius rather than incur the displeasure of the crowned demi
god. Grandees whose titles dated from beyond the Crusades and whose names were linked with all the glorious records of France—Condes and Montmorencies and La-Rochefoucaulds—vied with one another in rendering him the most menial services; to be honored with a bow or smile, to assist him in his toilette, to accompany him in his daily promenade, these were privileges to which the most exalted merit alone could aspire.
Is flunkyism part and parcel of the nature of all men? does a little of it enter into the composition even of heroes? Are men in general only too happy to find an idol before which they can prostrate themselves? Such reflections as these are naturally suggested to us at the thought of the fulsome adulation which Louis, we would say extorted, did we not know that it was so willingly bestowed by all those who had the great privilege of being admitted to his presence. Only to think that disputes occasionally broke out among noblemen of the highest rank to determine which of them’should have the distinguished honor of lighting His Most Christian Majesty to his bed-chamber or of standing by to hold His Most Christian Mijesty’s linen while dressing! Try to call up without smiling a picture of His Most Christian Majesty submitting his royal head to the operations of his tonsorial artist in presence of a hundred or more proud nobles, great ladies and, que sais-je abbes even, so privileged as to be admitted to h\s petit lever ! And when at length the work is completed and Ludovicus Rex sallies forth to capture the admiration of the outer world, imagine the grandees who fill his antechambers, shading their eyes with their hands lest they should be d izzled by the splendor of his countenance ! Can human baseness go farther, many will be inclined to ask; and yet it would be very wrong to conclude that these men were all merely false and selfish toadies. They were men whose dictum on nice points of honor would have been quoted as the very highest authority in every country of Europe, and whose personal courage had been gloriously proved on a hundred battle fields. But in their intercourse with Louis they considered that all the rules by which they would have been guided in their rela-"tions with ordinary mortals were at an end. In fact, as Macaulay tells us, the illusion which Louis succeeded in creating went so far as to affect the very senses. His contemporaries all thought him tall—St. Simon, Voltaire, and other writers, who employed every opportunity of arriving at an accurate judgment, repeatedly allude to his majestic height, yet it is now a certain fact that he was rather below than above the average stature. Eighty years after the death of the “grand Mbnarque'' the revolutionists of ’93 -after having sacked the abbey of St. Denis scattered the bones and ashes of the royal dead to the winds, and only then was revealed the fact that the most majestic of monarchs must have been a mortal of no more than five feet eight.
[To be Continued.]
Vocal Culture.
Singing may be defined as the utterance of musical or melodious sounds. This reproduction is effected by the voice. To sing with taste and success, a good ear, a practical knowledge of music, a susceptible mind, and, above all, a fine voice, are the most indispensable requisites. These, when combined with just feeling and firmness of expression, constitute the highest point of vocal excellence. In
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
227
order to sing, it is not enough to possess simply a fine voice; for one who understands the management of the powers of his voice sometimes produces with more felicity a better effect, with a far inferior voice, than an ignorant singer with a beautiful one. The human voice, which is more expressive than any musical instrument in its tone, is unquestionably the most pure and sonorous of any which distinguish animals. Though singing, one of the greatest gifts with which the divine Creator in His wisdom has en-* dowed our nature, is of incalculable advantage to us, still, ■without vocal education, which to be successful has to be commenced at an early period, we can only produce by it those effects which we would create with facility after a well-trained cultivation. When beginning vocal culture, it is of the greatest importance to take care that a correct, development of the articulated voice be made, so that the custom of performing regular motions and exercises should be impressed on the young mind. Without this, the acquisition of a sonorous voice, a pure pronunciation, and easy and natural inflection, is impossible; if it is neglected in youth, it will become almost unattainable when grown up. Here we may remember the German proverb: Was Hanschen nicht lernt, lernt Hans nimmermehr! (What little Hans has not learnt, Hans will learn it never more.) And it may not be out of place to remark to many students of vocal music, and even to their teachers, that as students ars in general young they have mostly an intense desire to
- display as soon as possible their skill and talent in an art which they have undertaken to cultivate. One of t he principal rules of vocal training is that all improper display, all , learning by heart without understanding, all mechanical »	imitation, should be abolished and banished from the study
of the beautiful art of singing. A teacher who has strongly at heart the progress and success of his pupils will firmly adhere to these wise prescriptions, otherwise he may become very often the cause of the destruction of vocal talent. To acquire the art of singing we must not expect to reach the summit at a single bound. No: this study is acquired only by degrees. If the scholar skips, or does not fully acquire one degree before going to the next higher, he will very soon be incapable of following in the higher and more, difficult lessons. We very often, and this to our regret, find a teacher who, at tne cost of his pupil and by trying to make himself a name as a skilful and progressive teacher, passes easily over the simple and most necessary elements of musical art, whether vocal or instrumental, and thus is able in a short while to force upon the young and flexible heart a middling difficult composition. The result is, that the mind is wholy diverted from deep and thorough study. It follows therefore that the persistent abuse and violation, ' of the precepts traced out for vocal education can bring nothing but harm. To exemplify this, let us take, from so ,	many instances of musical literature, one singer, Caffarelli.
What was it which made him so great a musical artist? It ►	was the simple singing of the scale, and some diversions
from it, for four or five years. After this long period of simple practice his master said to him: “ Go now, my son; you will be the greatest singer in Italy.” And he said truly, for such the singer was. Judge for yourselves. Take for instance a musical organization, a band or orchestra. By what can you find out the standing or height of its powers of production? Evidently it will not be in their playing a morceau, even if it be the best, without taking any notice of the musical signs, or the expression of the arrangement. But if they produce perhaps nothing but a
regular chaos of musical sounds, whose effects can better be compared with the loud roaring of the thunder than with the attract i ve harmony of a well rendered piece, with whom does the greater part the fault lie? With the teacher; he does not take care of the development of the musical talent of his subjects, and we never can expect many fine productions from them.	-
Since instrumental music is almost on the same footing with vocal music, the same might be said with regard to the latter. Some persons, it is true, have a greater talent than others for the vocal art, probably on account of a more suitable organization, by an education in a musical family or among art-loving friends, etc., but there is not a voice, however false and stubborn, which cannot be rendered pliant to perform with some accuracy any melody.
The first requirement of bringing out the voice fully is a proper position of the body, which should always have an erect posture, whether the singer be sitting or standing. All obstruction or hindrance to the voice in its formation, as well as all improper attempts at vocal display or forced tones,.must, be carefully avoided. The teacher, therefore, >hould take care not to exercise the voice too long or too loud, nor to fatigue it, since the lungs then become too much aff cted, and often causes a great injury to the vocal organs. The greater part of all practice should betaken in the middle strength of the voice. Beginners should be made strictly to pronounce all the syllables correctly, clearly and expressively. Why is it that you often cannot understand the words of a song whilst it is sung? It is only because the training of a proper musical pronunciation has been neglected.
Another, and one of the principal and most important rules, teaches the pupil how to manage the breath. A full and retentive breath is the only basis upon which a pure and fine tone can be formed. Respiring too often and too suddenly is very often of great inconvenience to a singer, and may produce a habitual irritation of the vocal cords, sometimes very difficult to overcome. The measure of a melody runs always parallel with that.of the words adapted to it If, for instance, a singer does not pay attention to the man agement of his breath, he has often to stop before the period of a phrase is finished, and it happens thus, not very rarely, that the sense of the whole sentence is changed. As one example from hundreds, I refer to that which happened to a good pious choir-priest, intoning the antiphon: Ego dcemonium non habeo, etc., (I have not a devil). The cantor, who did not pay attention to the singing and respiration, stopped after dcemonium, and this is what he brought out: Ego dcemonium, “ I am a devil.”
So many things are to be attended to in the art of singing that without having made it a particular study, without learning by reflection, experience and practice, in what it consists, it is very hard to form a right judgment of it. The most successful delivery of the voice, the best regulated respiration, the purest execution of the expressions and ornaments, and, what is very rare, a perfect and clear intonation, are the means by which a singer expresses the sentiments which animate him. To sing well, it is then necessary that the performer must adhere strictly to the sense of the words which he pronounces; even more, he has to work himself into the performance so as to identify himself with the personage whom he represents, whose situation and feelings he is going to reproduce. Consequently it is a matter of great value that pupils in their training should be made accustomed to practice until they
228
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
acquire and can accomplish, all that is required of them, to lay the foundations of successful singing. And how can this be done? By a poper education and training of the organ which produces these requirements, the voice.
M. P. F.
Professor Huxley’s Second Lecture.
In his second lecture, Professor Huxley continues the work of clearing the path for direct and demonstrative Evolution which he began in his first. The lecture is written in a very attractive manner, and but few things bear the stamp of materialism or atheism. The first paragraph' however, concludes as follows: “ And I confess that I had too much respect for your intelligence to think it necessary to add that that negation [of the Miltonic hypothesis] was equally strong and equally valid whatever the source from which that hypothesis might be derived, or whatever the authority by which it might be supported.” Evidently this latter allusion is mea it for the Bible, and it is just as evident that it is intended in an inimical way. Although Professor Huxley is generally represented as one who holds the Bible in veneration, the passige ab >ve quoted goes to prove the contrary. But he has no reason to reject the Bible as being the source of the Miltonic view of the order or state of things at the Creation; for he cannot reasonably object to the “source” because of the wrong interpretation given by Milton or anyone else of the facts contained in it; such a course of procedure, if followed even with regard to scientific truths, would inevitably lead to confusion, as there is scarcely any truth that may not be misinterpreted when viewed from a wrong standpoint. Further, in asserting that negation was equally strong and valid, no matter what may be the weight of authority or the strength of the arguments to the contrary, th? Professor cannot maintain his position; for how can he know whether, in the course of time, stronger arguments may not be brought forth than those which he has refuted? Of course we also reject the views of Milton, bee vise facts are not in accordance with them, but as soon as it is proved to us in a sufficiently well-gounded manner to set aside our arguments against it, we would gl idly accept the Miltonic view of creation. What would Mr. Huxley think of a man who, after he has proved to him the theory of evolu'ion in such an authoritative way that the other would be fully convinced of its truth, would still reject it because he maintains that his negation is equally strong and valid, no matter with what authority the Professor’s theory was proved to him?
“I further stated,” continues the lecturer, “that according to the hypothesis of evolution, the existing state of things was the last term of a long series of antecedent states, which, when traced back would be found to show no interruption and no breach of continuity.” But, Mr. Professor, why should this law of evolution stop now? just now, when its action is most needed to prove the truth of the theory? If evolution implies the necessity of continuity, then show us co-existing facts in which its action is manifest, otherwise your theory must be rejected as but a tissue of empty words.
Professor Huxley takes as his test the fossil remains of Geology, but every geologist knows that not a single case can be produced in which a complete series of evolution is manifested, however the evolutionists may endeavor to cover up the fact by saying that the fossil record of geology is not complete. So they wish to prove their series to be
complete from the fact that the series of fossils in geology illustrating the gradual evolution of a species is incomplete! This would be the blind leading the blind around a circle infinitely viciious. And when he states that Cuvier drew a hasty conclusion by rejecting evolution on the ground of having animal remains—of cats, dogs, ibises and crocodiles— from Egypt, which dated back some 3,000 or 4,000 years, and that these animals had not changed in the least during that time, we would say No: Cuvier did not draw a hasty conclusion; for the fact alluded to is a very strong argument against the theory, although evolutionists endeavor to make light of it by saying that evolution does notextend to all animals, or that it ceased exactly before the time alluded to. This is a very poor way, a very unreasonable one, to endeavor to escape the difficulty. Let us illustrate by an example their way of reasoning. Evolutionists maintain the evolution of man from the ape. To prove this, they do not let man evolve himself from a now living species of ape, but have recourse to an extinct species of ape whose remains have not yet been found. Oh, consistency, why dost -thou not cast a ray of light into minds full of such mystic vapors!
The reason why some species do not evolve themselves into another the Professor explains by Mr. Darwin’s doctrine of evolution. First it is because of the tendency to vary, and secondly the influence of surrounding conditions. For this reason, he siys, the scorpion of the carboniferous ages did not change, because the tendency to vary did not overcome the influence of the surrounding conditions, the surrounding conditions of the scorpion being always more favorable to the existing form of the scorpion. In the name of common sense, how does Prof. Huxley know all these things? Has he studied all the conditions through which the scorpion passed during the long period since the carboniferous ages? Then the difficulties of Cuvier, and many more given by the Professor himself, as in the case of the terebratula, the globigerince, the beryx, the lingula, and scorpion, which he says belong to that class of evidence which he called indifferent,—“That is to say they may afford no direct support to the doctrine of evolution, but they are. percfectly capable of being interpreted in consistency with it.”
Further on, the Professor says: “I insist upon the defects of the geological record the more because those who have not attended to these matters are apt to say to us, ‘It is all very well, but when you get into difficulty with your theory of evolu’ion you appeal to the incompleteness and the imperfection of the geological record’; and I want to make it perfectly clear to you that that imperfection is a vast fact which must be taken into account in all our speculations, or we shall constantly be going wrong.” Yes, let us take this “vast fact” into consideration, but not exclusively in favor of the theory of evolution, as evolutionists are wont to do, until they are pushed for proofs; and then, when questioned about the missing links of one or another of the different species, they invariably back out with the assertion, “ Well, Geology does not make it known, because its record is incomplete.” We would, then, respectfully ask the Professor to complete the geological record or we shall have to reject his conclusions for want of s »lid premises on which to base them—to nject them as idiosyncratic notions, until there is at least some tangible proof on which they may be accepted. The Professor states, also, that the causes of variations are not known, but that this does not interfere with evolution. Well, we might ask, how can he
4

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
229
maintain that such and such a species is the effect, or come, from such or such another species, when he is not able to trace the species through the variations he maintains— absurdly maintains, being without, any proof whatever—it has undergone? With regard to this matter we might say, with Dr. James McCosh, “ True, this may not be for the purpose of his lecture, but it must be cleared up before we can clear up the subject of development.”
Although the Professor acknowledges that geology does not give decisive evidence as to the changing of one animal form into another, he again comes with the candile argument that the record of geology is incomplete, and that if it were complete it would surely show the missing links; he dwells for a considerable lime on the resemblances and affinities between birds and reptiles, citing some forms of animals to link the reptile to the bird. All this is a good study, and helps a great deal to explain the varieties of different species and classes of animals, for example that there may be reptiles with wings and birds with teeth, but that there is a relation between the winged reptile and bird remains to be proved just as much as that man is derived from the frog or the monkey; if proved satisfactorily that the archaeopteryx was developed into a bird we will have no objection to reptiles being developed into birds, and will admit, as far as it goes, the evolution theory; but until these proofs are forthcoming, the Professor might as well attempt to force the theory that man is developed from the rooster, simply bee mse the latter walks on two legs and has toes, which would be ridiculous. In fact this idea would not be more idiotic than the first, and the Professor might for want of better proof say that one of the learned ancients defined man as “ a biped without feathers.” If the archaeopteryx be a link between reptiles and birds, then the bat is either a link between the reptile and bird or between the bird and the mammal. But everyone knows that the bat is as much a mtmmal as the flying squirrel, and the flying squirrel as much a mamm il as a horse or cow. The whale is also a mammal, although resembling greatly a fish, but we cannot say that the whale is a developed fish, for gills would be more favorable to the whale in its surroundings than lungs. We must therefore come to the conclusion that exterior similarity does not prove a relation-and because the archaeopteryx resembles in some parts a bird it does not follow that it is not a true reptile, just as much as the bat and the whale are true mammals. So it does not follow, at all, that the archaeopteryx should be a link between the reptile and the bird. A. M. K.
The Gallery of the Louvre.
The Palace of the Louvre, occupying the south side of the Place Carrousel, contains the magnificent collection of painting and sculpture, which c institutes, to the artist, the chief attraction of the French metropolis. It is the most ancient of the numerous palaces at Paris, a royal residence, having existed on the site, at an early period of the monarchy; and, during the thirteenth century, the feudal chieftains of France were accustomed to assemble within its walls, to do homage to their king. The Castle, (as it was called,) having become ruinous and dilapidated, Francis I caused the greater part of it to be rem sved, and in 1328, commenced the erection of the present splendid edifice. Its embellishment and improvement engaged the attention of each successive sovereign, till Louis XIV, having constructed the eastern facade, diverted the skill and treas
ure of the country to Versailles, where he determined to form a residence worthy of his sumptuous court. The Louvre was neglected during the reigns of Louis XV and Louis XVI, and in the early part of the Revolution, the entire building seemed destined to decay; when Napoleon having resumed and completed its construction, consecrated it to the Fine Arts, and made it the great depository of all the paintings, statues and antiquities, which he had collected in his campaigns, from almost every country upon the continent of Europe. His gallery contained twelve hundred pictures, with a coflectio i of statuary equally extensive, comprising specimens of the great masters of every age and nation, and embracing a large majority of the most celebrated in the world. After the downfall of Napoleon and the pacification of Europe, the Royal Museum was in turn stripped of its ornaments, which, sharing the fortunes of war, were restored in 1815 to their former proprietors. Notwithstanding the efforts of the French government to negotiate an exchange of articles, and to retain as many as possible, the number of pictures and works of art in the gallery were reduced to fewer than three hundred. With a view to refurnish the apartments, the government caused several of the better paintings at the Luxembourg, Versailles and other ptlaces to be removed to the Louvre, and acces-ions from all quarters have since been made, till the number is agiin raised to upwards of fourteen hundred pictures, forming one of the finest collections in the world.
The paintings of the Louvre, or Royal Museum, occupy a suite of four contiguous apartments, approached by a grand staircase, which is ornamented with twenty-two marble columns of the Doric order, and the whole richly embellished will) sculpture. Toe first siloon contains a collection of the earliest productions of the French and Italian schools, which are no otherwise interesting than as furnishing illustrations of the progress of the art. The second saloon forms a vestibule to the Grand Gallery, fourteen hundred feet in length and fifty in width, the walls of which are entirely covered with pictures, and the whole adorned with columns, mirrors, candelabra, busts, altars, ancient and modern vases, and other works of art, presenting a scene more like enchantment than reality.
The Gallery is partially, and rather nominally divided, by arches erected along the sides, into nine compartments, three of which are appropriated to the French, three to the Flemish, German and Dutch, and the rem lining three to the Italian schools. Among the most celebrated pictures in the Louvre, are the portrait of ‘ Mana Lisa,’ by Leonardo da Vinci; the ‘Holy Family,’ called La belle JardiniSre, by Raphael; the ‘Entombment of the Saviour,’ by Titian; ‘Jupiter and Antiope,’ by Correggio; the ‘Marriage at Cana,’ by Paul Veronese; ‘Hercules and Nessus,’ and a ‘Magdalene,’ by Guido; a‘Beggar Boy,’ by Murillo; and several landscapes by Claude Lorraine.
The apartments appropriated to sculpture, on the first floor, are princely in size and rich in marbles and mosaics, and comprise upwards of fifteen hundred articles, embracing specimens of every sculptor, from Phidias and Praxiteles to the no less celebrated Tiiorwaldson and Canova. Of the antiques which have acquired the most celebrity, are the ‘ Gladiator combatting with an enemy on horseback,’discovered at Antium in the seventeenth century; a statue of ‘ Minerva,’ and another of ‘Pallas’; group of ‘ Silenus with the infant Bacchus’; and a colossal statue of ‘ Melpomene,’ supposed originally to have adorned the Theatre of Pompey.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Gallery of France, as it is called, occupies a suite of nine rooms, and contains a choice collection of paintings of the French Schools.	•
The Spanish Gallery, comprising four hundred and fifty specimens of nearly all the masters of the Spanish School, collected under the auspices of Louis Philippe, was first opened to the public in January; 1837, and occupies a suite of five rooms in the Palace of the Louvre.
The Standish Gallery occupies a suite of seven rooms on the northern side of the Louvre, and comprises two hundred and forty-four pictures of the Italian, German, French, Spanish and English schools, besides a very valuable co lection of drawings and designs. They were bequeathed to the king of the French in J838, by Frank Hall Standish, E-q., well known by his elegant taste for the arts, his supe; rior information on literary subjects and antiquities, and for his ‘Researches in Southern Italy,'and Spain,’ which will continue standard books in English literature.
Mr. Standish died at Cadiz in December, 1840, in the forty-second jear of his age, and evinced his esteem for the French nation in the following terms: “ I give and bequeath to His Majesty, the King of the French, all my books, manuscripts, prints, pictures and drawings at my mansionhouse at Duxbury Hall or elsewhere in Great Britain, or abroad, either to or for the private use of his said Maj -sty, or for the use of any public institution which his said Majesty may think proper; in token of my great esteem for a generous and polite nation; one that is always ready to welcome the traveller and relieve the stranger; and one that I have ever gone to with pleasure and quitted with regret.” This gallery contains some good original pictures ■ and many fine copies; the drawings are valuable, and the library, containing about 4,000 volumes, is rich in rare books, among others the Bible of Cardinal Ximenes, valued at 25,000 francs.
Scientific Notes.	‘
—The French Association for the Advancement of Science held its meeting in August, under the presidency of M. Dumas.
—On September 12th the Geographical Congress con-ven<-d by the King of Belgium met at Brussels, under the presidency of his majesty.
—Oxalic acid, found in sorrel, in a diluted state, will remove ink-stains from cloth. It is a virulent acrid poison; its antidote is common chalk.
—The New York Aquarium is daily enlarging its col lection of rare species of fish, and it has now become an ac cepted educational institution. The library affords rare enjoyment for the student.
—Indelible ink, and nearly all substances used to mark clothing, is composed chiefly of nitrate of silver. The stain made by them may be removed by soaking the cloth in a solution of cyanite of potassium. Care should be taken in the use of this substance, as it is very poisonous.
—A distinguished French scientist, M. Charles St. Claire-Deville, a chemist and mineralogist of great ability, died recently. He was the discoverer of amorphous and insoluble sulphur, thus showing for the first time a simple body in two conditions, differing not only in physical characteristics but in essential chemical properties.
—The new element, of which there are now with this new one 64. is called gallium. It was discovered by Mr. Lecoy de Boisbandeau, August 27, 1875, between 3 and 4 o’clock in the afternoon. He found it among the products of a chemical examination of a blende coming from the -mine of Pierrefite, situated in a valley of the Pyrenees.
—Dr. Carl Ernst von Baer, honorary member of the imperial academy of Science at St. Petersburg, has generally
been regarded as one who favors the development theory; but this is far from being the case, as he himself shows in the second p irt of his lectures entitled “Studies in the Department of Natural History.” Here the Darwinists are caught in a trap of their own setting, and one which they had praised so much.
—In the October sittings of the French Academy of Sciences, M. Lecoy de Bnisbindeau read a treatise on the Chemical Relations of Gillium. He said that a solution of a pure salt of gallium is precipitated bv sulphydrate of ammonia and that an excess of reagent does not remove the gallium so longas the sulphurate of zinc is in sufficiently small quantity to be itself dissolved. Professor Rouget, of the same Assembly, states that, the electric current in the electric eel is attributed solely to nervous action, since the electric apparatus of the gymno'us is nothing but a cluster of anastomosic nerves, supported by conjunctive tissue.
—It has been cleirly proved bv Dr. Frankland that the instrument used in physics known by the name of radiometer is not a light motor, but a heat motor, the motion being produced by the heat of the sun or any other light. To prove this he made some very beautiful experiments. He placed the radiometer in the moonlight,—uo motion; he then condensed the light with a lens just on on - of the <li-ks of the radiometer, rendering the rays 200 times greater,—no motion. His conclusions are that light is not necessary to move the. instrument, that light does not contribute to its motion, unless it be transformed into heat, and that the movement of the radiometer is due to the unequal heating of the two faces of each disk, the cooler face always preceding the hotter one.
Art, Music and Literature.
—William Black has found a queer title for his new novel. It is “ Green Pastures and Piccadilly.”
—The great “ Musical Conversations-Lexicon ” of Herr Mendel has reached the end of the sixth volume.
—L’Abbe Augustin Rainguet has written a Christian drama, St. Eustelie, which has received high praise from French critics.
—An important new book on the law of nations, by Sir Edward Creasy, is entitled, “A First Platform of International Law.”
—A fac-simile reproduction of the first edition of Milton’s “Paradise Lost” is announced for publication by Elliott Stock, of London.
—Last week the score of Corinne Young’s American opera was performed at Brussels. The journals of that city speak well of it.
—The first volume of Rev. J. O’Hanlon’s “ Lives of the Irish Sainis,” a work which will occupy 12 volumes when completed, is about to be published at Dublin.
—The Continental critics are raving about a newly discovered baritone of Trieste, Moriani by name, who is said to oe to day what Faure was fifteen years ago.
—A number of stories for marines, written by F. Colburn Adams, author of the “Story of a Trooper,” etc., have been collected in a little volume entitled “High Old Silts.”
—The Iliad is once more translated; this time by Mr. C. B. Cayley, of England, in a meter of quantitative hexameter. It is already in print, and will be published immediately.
—The Marquis of Salisbury has authorized Colonel Sandford to lend to the Pennsylvania Art Museum the British-Indian collection at the Centennial Exhibition till the close <>f 1877, to be afterwards disposed of as Colonel Sandford may direct.
—M. Paul Soleillet, in his “ Avenir de la France en Afrique,” narrating hisl ravels in North Africa in 1872-74, speculates upon the feasibility of building a railroad from Algeria to Timbuctoo and the fertilization of the Sahara by flooding it from the sea.
—Miss Clara E. Stutsman is one of the latest additions to our resident corps of vocalists. This young ladv is a native of Ohio; she has a pure contralto, of a dramatic and sym
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	231
pathetic quality, and has evidently studied under an able master.—American Art Journal.
—-The Dublin musical critics praise very highly the music and libretto of an original three-act comic opera, entitled “ The Box and the Ring.’’ The composer and poet are both very young ladies, the former still a student in the Royal Irish Academy of Music.
_—The subject of Mr. Tennyson’s new drama is the early history of his country. A correspondent of The Boston Ad vertiser says that the writing of the play was a secret so well kept that many of his friends first learned the fact from the advertisement which lately appeared.
—Herr von Hulsen, Intendent-General of the Berlin theatres, is organizing a festival in honor of Mozart, to be given next year in Berlin, at which all the artistic celebrities of Germany will be asked to co-operate. Is this in-< tended as a demonstration against Bayreuth ?
—M Gounod is composing the music for a libretto by MM. Poirson and L. Gillet, called “Cinq Mars,” for the Paris Opera Oomique, the director of which, M. Carvalho, has also commissioned the successful composer of “Jeannie, Jeannette, et Jeanneton” to set a book by MM. A. Sylvestre and Heunequin.
—The sale of Gen. Scott’s library in New York has attracted little attention, as the books embraced in it were neither rare nor valuable. “Victoires et Conquetes de France,” twenty-nine volumes; “ (Euvres de Rousseau,” twenty-four volumes; and “ Voltaire ” in sixty volumes, . were the most notable portions of the collection.
—It seems that Bret Harte’s “Two Men of Sandy Bar,” which was printed in Osgood’s Little Classic series, will never be published. Mr. Robison holds the copyright on the play, and he could not control it abroad if printed. He demands that the edition be suppressed. When he paid $6,000 for the play he considered that it was bis outright.	„
—The Benedictine monks of Monte Cassino are engaged in printing a description of the manuscripts contained in their library, with fac-similes of some of the documents, and reproduction and chromo-lithographs of the remarkable illuminations. This work isentitled Bibliotheca Cassinensis. Two volumes have been already printed, with a Preface by the learned Abbot Luigi Tosti.
—Mr. Theodore Thomas has lately signed a contract to conduct the coming musical festival at Cincinnati in 1878. It will be the occasion of the inauguration of the new and handsome music hall provided by the generous citizens of the Queen City of the West. Mr. Otto Singer is still at the head of the cnorus which did so superbly two years ago, and will co-operate with Mr. Thomas in making the arrangements for the festival.
—Sig. Schira has returned to London from Italy. He is commissioned by Mad. Lucca, head of one of the first houses at Milan, to compose an opera for the Scala. The popularity of Sig. Schira’s Selvaggio is so great that fantasias upon, and selections from its leading melodies, for military and other bands, are everywhere performed. There is some talk about his Lord of Burleigh, so successfully produced at the Birmingham Festival of 1873, being produced at Naples, Florence and Venice.
—Young Hogan, the sculptor, a resident of Rome, and son of the great sculptor and architect better known as the author of the Dead Christ and designer of the celebrated mole in the harbor of Leghorn, is remarkable for his almost morbid admiration of certain chefs d'ceuvre, principally the statue of St. Bruno, by Michael Angelo, which'is placed in the Church of Santa, Angioh in Rome. St. Bruno is presented in Carrara marble, wearing the monastic garb and in the act of delivering one of his profound sermons. At times young Hogan visits this masterpiece daily, standing before it for fifteen or twenty minutes at a time. His mood while thus contemplating the great masterpiece seems to be mingled with ecstatic delight and profound study. An American sculptor stole upon Hogan during one of his reveries lately in the Church of Santa Angioli gad asked why he remained so long before the statue of/St. Bruno. Hogan turned round with his usual quiet smile and answered, “I am waiting to hear him speak.”
—Baireuth came very near not being Baireuth. Richard
Pohl, in the Neue Zeitschrift, relates that, before Wagner had decided to construct the theatre at Bairenth, Liszt had obtained by some means the consent of the Grand Duke of Saxe-Weimar to have the theatre erected on the banks of the Um. beside that made illustrious by Goethe and Schiller. From political considerations the project was, however, frustrated, and there was no more thought of Weimar. This occurred in 1856. Several years afterward, Wagner visited Baireuth, and the municipality of that little Bavarian city having offered him a piece of land, he decided there to construct his theatre. Mr. Pohl also states on this subject that, in 1853, Liszt paid a visit to Wagner at Basle, where was for the time the composer of the Tetralogy. Joachim, the celebrated violinist, who was not then so vehement an anti-Wagnerian as he is to-day, accompanied Liszt on this visit. Wagner was then working on the Got-terdummerung, and made Joachim acquainted with its principal fragments.
—Amongst the many relics of ancient Rome which, during the excavations going on in that city, have from time to time come to light, none, perhaps (in spite of its unpretending size, and little or no artistic importance), has comparatively excited more curiosity and interest than a little golden bell, found bv one of the navvies whilst at work on Mount E-quiliu in 1875. It is nothing else but a tintinnab-ulum, or noluncula (Koidou), such as with many other objects is met with amongst the amulets, in whose efficacy i he ancient Romans put so much faith and which were worn by ladies and children generally suspended either singly or in groups, from the neck as a preservative against sickness, the Evil-eye, witchcraft, etc. The sides of the little bell are slightly depressed, and an inscription in Greek letters runs in a double row on its border. As interpreted by Commendatore Fiorelli and Padre Bruzza of Rome the meaning of it is “ I (Lit< le Bell) was made against fascination ’’ Fascinum et Invidia of the Ancients). Alsarius, Kropp, Lazzarini, and other palmographical critics, give similar interpretations.
—Charles Kean said a bad horse was like a poor play; it can’t run and won’t draw. .
—The liberty to go higher than we are is given only when we have fulfilled the duties of our present sphere.
—The real object of education is to give children re sources' that will endure as long as life shall last; habits that will ameliorate, not .destroy; occupation that will render sickness tolerable, solitude pleasant, age venerable, life more dignified and useful, and death less ter-ible.—Sidney Smith.
T—Rock ouce advised one of the scene-shifters, who had met with an acc dent, to the plan of a subscription; and a few days afterwards he asked for the list of names, which when he had read it over he returned. “Why, Rock,” said the poor fellow, “won’t you give me something?” “ Zounds, man,” replied the other, “ didn’t I give you the hint?”
—Charles Fox and his friend Hare,'both much incommoded by debts, were together in a house, when, seeing some shabby men about the door, they grew afraid lest they were bailiffs in search of one of them. Not knowing which was in danger, Fox opened the window and called to them, “ Pray, gentlemen, are you Fox-hunting or Hare-hunting?”
—Spinner had a rich but vulgar old uncle of his wife, from whom he had expectations, to dinner the other day. During a pause in the conversation the enfant terrible of, the familv, after watching the guest intently said, earnestly: • “I wish I was you.” “ D »you, my little boy? And why»do you wish you were me ?” because you don’t get sent out of the room when you eat with your knife.”
—A witty old judge, who had spent an evening with a young lawyer in the country, whose office was on the second storv, on taking his departure, stumbled on the stairs and fell to the bottom. The young lawyer, hearing the noise, rushed out, and seeing the judge lying down, with great anxiety asked,“ Is your honor hurt ?” “ No’’, said the judge, scrambling to his feet “ but my head is.”
I
232
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, December 16, 1876.
Single Copies of THE SCHOLASTIC may now be pro cured at the Student’s Office, at Five Cents per copy.
Terms, $1.50 Fer Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
Our New Advertisers,
We call the attention of our readers to the advertisement of Mr. William J. Clarke, of’74, to be found in our regular advertising columns. After graduating at Notre Dame, Mr. Clarke returned to his home in Columbus, Ohio, where he entered the law office of Hon. M. A. Dougherty. Having passed the prescribed examination, he was admitted to the bar, and now has opened an office where he will conscientiously and promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care. All students who may have legal business in central Ohio which needs the attention of a lawyer may safely entrust it to his hands. Mr. Clarke will be remembered as a prominent member of the Thespian Association of 1873 and ’74.
We publish also in this issue an advertisement of the Catholic Columbian, the business minager of which is D. A Clarke, of’70, who is also one of the editors. There are few papers which give us so much pleasure as the Columbian. The editorial page glitters with short, crispy editorials which contain matter worthy the serious thought of intelligent readers. The general news of the day is given in condensed form, and the local department is well attended to. The Columbian is certainly the best editorial diocesan paper published in the United States.
The old students are beginning to see the utility of ad-vertisng in our columns, and are hastening to avail themselves of the benefits which they confer. We expect with each issue to increase the number of these advertisers. In publishingtheseadvertisements, however, we will notallow the space given to reading matter to be infringed on. We have only four pages devoted to advertisements, and other advertisers will have to give way to old students who advertise. We have already been forced to decline advertise ments from New York and other Eastern cities.
Good Manners.
We are not to despise good breeding, although it would seem that there are some people who are of the erroneous opinion that polished and refined manners are assumed only by rogues, confidence-men and the like, for the purpose of beguiling their neighbors, taking them in and having them done for; and that rough manners are a sign of honesty, candor and rightheartedness.
It may be admitted that rogues not unfrequently affect polished manners, and that sometimes men of honesty and integrity are rough in their ways. But then rogues are
making a bad use of a good thing and the honest man has so many good, and noble qualities that the defect of bad mauners is overlooked by his friends. Yet, in this latter case, were good and affable manners added to the other noble qualities of the honest, upright man, intercourse with him would be far more agreeable, his influence would be greater, and he himself would be improved by fifty per cent. Honest, rough old Dr. Johnson, the Ursa Major, with his many noble qualities and his great conversational powers, would have a far more entertaining companion had his manners been more refined.
lu all circles of society, politeness is indispensable. True politeness is the exterior manifestation of Christian charity, and hence we see it so prominently portrayed in the char- . acters of the holy Bishop of Geneva, and the founder of the Priests of the Mission, two men in whom the fire of Christian charity burned with excessive heat. There are, no doubt, often cases wherein politeness is counterfeit,—mere laquer—that conceals the impulses of hearts moved by instincts base and vicious; yet this counterfeit is easily discovered. It has not the ring of the true metal, and moreover, in a very short time the burnish will rub off and the falseness of the heart concealed for a time by false politeness will be discovered.
In order to acquire true politeness, then, it is necessary that in our heart we first acquire true Christian charity, that we possess a right idea of the dignity of man, a being created and redeemed by the blood of a God-Mtn, and to bear in mind that as all are brethren as the descendants of Adam, so we are still more closely united as brethren in the Incarnation, where we are all brethren of our Elder Brother, the Saviour. Only by being filled with this charity and knowledge can we practice that golden rule of politeness as well as of Christian charity: “ Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.”
It is evident that any one who his thought seriously of these truths must be a polite man, must, have good manners, not that he will be thoroughly posted in the etiquette of a higher social circle than the one in which he moves, nor that he will acquire the graceful movements of those who have passed through the hands of a dancing-master; but in all his communications with his fellow beings the effect of those great truths will crop out in his words and actions; he will never wound with his tongue, he will never insult by his actions, he will please all in his speech, and will never neglect the observance of those outward marks of politeness and respect that are in common use in the community of which he is a member.
No matter if rogues may use politeness to deceive, let honest men be polite, at least to render their intercourse more agreeable, if for no higher motive. If some otherwise good and irrepro tch ible men are rough and boorish in their manners, bear it in mind that they are respected not for their rudeness but in spite of their uncouth manners, and they would be far more agreeable members of society had they more agreeable ways. For one rough unpolished man who giins renown in this world there are hundreds who are refined and gentle in their manners.
—A stranger to law courts hearing a judge call a sergeant “brother,” expressed his surprise. “Oh,” said one present, “they are brothers, brothers-in-law.”
—Charles I and Archbishop Laud (who was a little man) were dining together, when the king’s jester said the following graceGreat praise be given to God; but little Laud to the devil.” .	.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
233
The Philodemic Entertainment.
The literary entertainment given by the St. Aloysiu-Philodemic Association, on Thursday evening, December 14th, was eminently successful. Though we would have preferred that a little music had been sprinkled here and there through the programme yet we can see the full force of the many reasons why on this occasion much music was not given. When next the young gentlemen appear we trust that they will have their programme so arranged as to diversify the evening with eloquence and song. He was a wise man who first told us that “too much of a good thing is too much.” Too much literature, too much music, too much drama, during one evening’s entertainment make us somewhat fatigued. Mixed up, they entertain. As it was the music by the quartette and the piano solo by Mr. Carl Otto were very good.
The opening address of William T. B ill was well written and delivered with much grace. The Panegyric of O’Connell by Mr. P. J. Cooney was a thoughtful and appreciative review of the great work of the “Liberator,” a man whose name can never die so long as mankind admire men of heroic deeds. The declamations of Messrs. Logan, D. Murphy, A. K Schmidt and E Arnold were well delivered. The enunciation was good, the voices were in good order and the gesturing natural and easy. The essay of J. J. Quinn, entitled “Political Knicknacks,”'was witty and entertaining and elicited much applause.
The great feature of the evening’s entertainment was, however, the debate, the subject of which was: “Is the Study of the Sciences and Useful Arts better calculated to develop the mind than the study of Literature and Languages?” The affirmative was sustained by Messrs. Win. T. Ball and Carl Otto, while the negative enlisted the services of Messrs. John G. Ewing and Thomas A. Logan.
Mr. Ball, the first speaker, opened the debate by stating and explaining the question; he also remarked that the discussion must be philosophical in its nature, as the object was not to discover which study was the more interesting or agreeable, but which had the greater influence upon the intellectual faculties. He maintained that the mind was developed and strengthened directly in proportion to the variety of studies to which it was devoted and the depth of reasoning elicited. H'S principal argument was, that the sciences presented a greater variety and gave occasion for deeper thought than languages and literature. This he illustrated by explaining the various sciences, and showing in each case their influence upon the intellect. In addition, he maintained that the practical arts were a source of mental development, inasmuch as they set in activity the powers of ingenuity. Another argument was that language and literature were the imperfect productions of men, whilst science treats of the works of an Omnipotent God Again, literature since the days of Homer, Virgil, Herodotus, Thucydides, Sophocles and Aeschylus, has not attained a much higher degree of perfection—science on the contrary is progressive; nature is improving and expanding before us every day. Another influence which science exerted in ancient times was to dispel the mists of idolatry, by proving that the nature of the sun, moon, and stars was not different from our own earth. He then closed by repeating his chief argument and reviewing the points brought up to sustain it.
He was followed by Mr. Ewing, the first speaker on the negative, who began by speaking, first, of the great ad
vancement made in science in the past one hundred years, and of the education of the day. He then laid down the division of education into art, science and literature, and stated his proposition that that branch of education should be pursued which would make man understand more fully and more clearly his true end and destiny, stating that such development of the mind of man is the greatest known. This he then defended, and showed in what it consisted, namely in a thorough literary training. He showed forth fully the destiny of man, and then the great utility of literature in instructing him for this end. He also gave the great and elevating lessons we learn from the study of languages, history and philosophy, the three grand divisions of literature.
Mr. Otto, on the affirmative, after reviewing the arguments of Mr. Ewing, proceeded with the debate. He first stated that the question was to be debated according to the modern opinion, and that his side had no intention of denying the utility of literary studies. He spoke of the extravagant theories advanced in logic and moral philosophy as depreciating the wholesome influence of literature, touched the subject of metaphysics, and then called up the injury resulting from the perusal of Macaulay, Hume, and Gibbon. He illustrated how the poets taught all manner of immorality ; and claimed as an advantage that talent was not necessary for scientific studies. He asked the opposite side to show such illustrious men as Newton, Descartes, and Humboldt. He then drew citations from different authors to prove the influence of mathematics in general, and brought forward “ prevision ” of astronomy as developing the mind. He then spoke of the practical arts and showed how potent they were in influ mcing the came of education in an indirect manner. He also argued that since more persons study the sciences we should take into account their verdict as to their great good. He then spoke of the imitation which exists in Literature, none of which is found in science. He mentioned that modern paganism and unbelief were the natural result of the study of the classics, and no’ caused by the intelligent study of science, and concluded by stating that science, language and literature were a mere representation of reality—their knowledge was inferior to that of the sciences.	.
Mr. Logan concluded the debate. He began with a brief retrospect of the rise and progress of literature and civilization to the present time, showing the advantage of free educatio i and government in the civilization and refinement of a nation, bri< flv running over the advantages derived from the study of language, arguing that no man could be called culture 1 or in a state of development without a knowledge of language; adducing as proof that men who held the destiny of the Church and nation in their hands, in fact nearly all whose names are inscribed in history as having great influence with men by their ap- -peals, their philosophy and their poetry, owed it in part to their knowledge of language, which gave them that knowledge of the whole compass of their own; that without the knowledge of language the valuable store of foreign literature would be locked up from us, and business, commerce and social intercourse would become stagnant; briefly passing over the study of history, he dwelt for some time on the study of philosophy, claiming it as more beneficial to the mind of mm than all the sciences together: that as man’s destiny is the grave, that which tends to develop the mind in those channels of morality and usefulness was the only true development the mind could ever attain; that
234	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the questions of the greatest importance, such as our responsibility for our conduct, our anticipation of futurity, etc., presented the noblest and greatest field for a perfection of the mind. He argued that the higher class of novels gave us a deeper insight into hum in character, which in Scott and Dickens are true to nature; poetry, as refining the taste, exalting the imagination, as carrying the soul to a higher world, where it had its origin and from which it was now in a state of exile; biography, as rousing despondency and emulating the young aspirant to a position of fame and power; not at'empting to deny the utility of the sciences as a branch of study, only striving to defend the superiority of the classics, he closed with an appeal to all assembled to strive and follow in the step of the honored scholars who had gone before.	-
By request of those taking part in the debate, the decision will be rendered in writing by Rev. President Golovin. We will give it in our next number.
. Personal.
—W. F. Dolan, of ’59, is practicing law at Atchinson, Kaiisaar
■^—Joseph Kelly (Commercial, of ’64,) is doing a good business at Joliet, Ill.
—John P. Lauth, of ’68, is principal of a flourishing academy in Chicago, III.
—We have been told that John Bracken, of ’49, is in busi-iness in Philadelphia, but what his address is our informer did not give.
—Lewis Ross and R >bert Hinde (both Commercial, of ’65) are in the dry goods business at Lewiston, Ill. The firm is Ross & Hinde, and they enjoy a very good trade.
—Charles A C. Clowes, (Commercial, of ’69.) is in the milling business with H. and J; Loomis, in 8 »uth Bend, Ind.
—W. J. Ryan (Commercial, of ’75,) is in business with his father at Calumet, Michigan.
—E W. Robinson (Commercial, of ’74) is now manager and book keeper for G. W. Robinson & Co., wholesale dealers in dry goods at Mill View, Florida.
—D. A. Clarke, of ’70. writing to us, savs: “I can’t afford to lose a singe number of the Scholastic, as I have every volume complete from the date of No. 1, Vol. 1, and would part with them for no money. They contain too good a history of college days and recall too many pleasant scenes to be treated with indifference. As one of the Buckeye Group of Scholastic editors’ I began the career that now gives me so much pleasure.”
Local Items.
—All the societies hold interesting meetings.
—Bulletins will be made out on the 21st inst.
—The scaffolding in the new church has been taken down. ’	_	.
—This cold weather greatly interferes with the gathering up of local, items.
—Invitations to the St. Cecilian Entertainment were sent off this past week.
—Prof. Stace will deliver his promised lecture, in Phelan Hall, sometime in January.
—The frescoing on the ceiling of the middle aisle in the new church is really beautiful.
—The Juniors are engaged in reading “ The Martyrs of the Coliseum ” in their refectory.
—The Professor of Physics lately received another invoice of philosophical instruments.
—The Curator of of the Mus°um has received a box of fine specimens from the Centennial.
—There are very few cases of sickness at Notre Dams just now, and none of them dangerous.
—Remember to send your items in early in the week, as we go to press on Fridays from this out.
—How does it come that so many students’ birthdays happen on the 19th and 20th of December?
—The Philopatrians continue to hold their meetings regularly. Their report will appear next week.
—The psalms sung at Veipers to-morrow are all from the Common of the Blessed Virgin, Vesperal, page 36.	■
—On account of the painting, etc., in the new church, High Mass and Vespers were sung in the old basement.
—The Natural Sciences will have the benefit of the last visits of the President and Director of Studies before Christmas.
—If the sleighing at present is not good it is not the fault of the weather, which has been lavish in sending us snow.
—Rev. T. E. Walsh has been invited to lecture in Milwaukee, and has accepted. The lecture will be given in January.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1877 contains over one hundred pages of reading matter, some thirty more than last year.
—Profj. Ivers and Tong will lecture after New Year’s day. The commercial students in particular may look for a rare treat.
—Rev. Father Z ihm wil llecture on Thursday next, the 21st inst. His subject will be “Astronomy Experimentally illustrated.”
—The ice on the lakes is very thick, but then the snow on the ice is very deep, which prevents much skating. It’s too bad!
—The cold weather has kept the engineers in the steamhouse very busy supplying steam for the various houses at Notre Dame.
—The Revs. President and Director of Studies continue to make their visits to the classes, all of which they find making much improvement.
—The advertisements of the old students are quite a feature in our advertising columns. When a few more are added they will look better.
—Considerable ice on the upper lake was cleared from snow sufficiently to make very good skating. “ Peel away,” consequently, has risen in estimation.
—The weather on Saturday last, D -cember 9th. was the coldest known at Notre D ime for many years. The thermometer was fifteen degrees below zero.
—The Minims’ snow-plow was very serviceable during the late heavy fall of snow, in keeping open the passage between their study-hall and play room.
—We understand that the pai.nters will quit work on the interior of the new church next week. The remainder of the painting will be finished next spring.	.
—The St. Cecilians have been engaged in their rehearsals during their spare time. The Director will not allow these rehearsals to interfere with study or class.
—The members of the Junior department do not let the tables in their recretiion hall remain idle. Alley-ball is also kept up by some of the lovers of the game.
—During the play of the “Virginia Mummy” on the • 19th, W. J. Davis will sing “ The Old Home ain’t what it used to be” and “ Why do summer roses fade?”
—Studies and classes will continue until the 22nd inst-. Clas-es will begin after the holidays on the 2nd of January. Every one should make it a point to be back in time.
—The class of Physiology-under went a vigorous and very satisfactory examination on Tuesday last, on the occasion of the visit of the Revs. President and Director of Studies.
—The manager of the Scholastic is under obligations to the members of the Academia for the number of excellent essays which they have from time to time furnished him.
—Now that the members of the Philodemic Association have broken the ice, we hope that they will favor us with another Literary Entertainment before the end of the scholastic year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
235.

—Have you purchased a Scholastic Almanac yet? If you have not, be sure to do so, as it will make an excellent Christmas-gift for your friends. We expect it to have a large sale.	,
—The Scholastic Almanac is now published, and we hope that every one will buy a copy for himself and one ' or two to present to his friends. It is a great improvement on that of last year.
—The Entertainment to be given on the 19th inst. will be well worth seeing. The young men of the St. Cecilia . Philomathean Association are determined to keep up the reputation of past years.
—We understand that the foundation of a reading room association will in all probability be accomplisheu shortly. This is as it should be, for an association of the kind has long been a necessity hete. •
—We don’t wish to forestall, but we believe that it is half-past six during the Christmas holidays, and only one hour of obligatory study. Rec. after supper as a matter of course—free study ail day.
—The steam pipes in several of the rooms were frozen duting the recent cold spell of weather. This however in nowise-interfered wi.h the comfort of any one, for they were quickly put to rights by the plumbers.
—The ordinations we announced in our issue of last week will take place on the 27th and 28th of this month. Our ordinary, the Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger of Ft. Wayne, will arrive at Notre Dame on the 26th.
—The boys were out skating on the lake this past week, but thesnow'seriously interfered with their sport. The thing that is wanted here is a\egular rink. It won’t do to depend on the lakes; they are, too uncertain.
—The Prof. ofNatural Sciencesis, we understand, making arrangements for a tine collection of models-for his class< s of Zoology and Physiology. From what we have heard, they will compare favorably with anything of the kind in the country.
—Remember the St. Cecilian Entertainment takes place on the evening of the 19ih, when the “ Dumb Orphan, or the Broken Sword,” and the “Virginia Mummy” will ba , produced. It is to be hoped that the weather will be pro-y pitious, for if such is the case there will be a large number of strangers present.	z
—A vocal class has been organized among the Minims, and to judge from the taste the Minims have always dis^ played for this branch of music, seconded by the zealous efforts of Br. Leopold, it will certainly prove a success, and tend to fit them for entrance into the Choral Union when time and practice has strengthened their voices.
—We would especially recommend to the travelling community visiting Chicago to try the Matteson House. Once trying it they will never chapge, for there is no better c inducted hotel in Chicago, which is saying everything in its favor that can be said, since there is no city in the world » with better hotels than the Garden City.
'/ —The boys at the Manual Labor School besides being /-.engaged in learning good trades attend clashes of grammar, ; arithmetic, etc. Under the management of Mr. Scherer, and Brothers Constantine, Xavier, Francis. Mark, John Joseph, Neil, Charles, Damian, Hyppolitus, Eugene, Hilarion and others they make great progress in their studies and in their trades. •
—The apparatuses mentioned in a previous issue of the Scholastic which were on exhibition at the Centennial, and secured by the Director of the Physical Department while in Philadelphia, have at length arrived and are placed in the Laboratory. In addition to the instruments above mentioned a quantity of chemicals have also been received.
—The past week the following books were presented the Lemonnier Library: Leo. McKernan, of ’76, gave a very fine copy of “The Technical Educator” 4 vols. 4to., London, Cassell, Peters & Co.; Jno. Weber, of Notre Dame, presented 3 vols. of “ Alte und1 Neue Welt J. Brady, Esq., of Philadelphia, gave “Adolphus, and Other Stories”; Jno. Ward, of Chicago, gave a “ History of the French and German War,” by JamesMcCabe, Jr.
—The 13th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary
and Debating Society was held on Saturday evenin?, Dec. 9th. The question, “Which affirdsthe best opening for a young man, Commercial or Agricultural Life?” was debated on the affirmative by Messrs. McGorisk, Calkins and Turnbull, and on the negative by Messrs. Rettig, Henkel and Murray. The decision was in favor of the negative. A declamation was delivered by Mr. M. J. Regan entitled “Ab salom’s Dream.”
—During the Christmas holidays, the students on one evening .will be amused by a soiree, on another, by a Thespian Entertainment, and steps hive been taken to induce Rev. Fr. Zahm to give a scientific exhibition. Preparations have been made to have good skating. Bro. Alexander aLo will do his best to make things agreeable, as will also the editor of the Scholastic. With this state of things, those who remain will perhaps enjoy themselves more than those who go home to spend the week.
—Everybody who was at the Centennial saw those Rolling Chairs, and admired their beauty and excellence. That they were strong is evident from the fact that they were perfectly solid after mmths of the hardest kind of usage. Probably very few noticed the method of construction, that they were m ide of three layers of wood with the grain crossed, glued together and neatly perforated. We h-arn that Hadley Bros & Kane, of Cnicago, are preparing to manufacture the same material for use in school, church, hall and opera s ats. We shall watch the development of this new material for sealing with much interest.
—The members of the “ St. Cecilia Standard ” hiving on the 5th ob'ained a half-holiday, set out t> enjoy themselves. They proceeded to the house of Mr. Uhearhart. where after having regaled themselves with an excellent lunch they listened to declamations by Messrs. Burger and Kauffman, after which the principal feitureofthe entertainment was a debate in which the following gentlemen took part: Messrs. Burger, Healv. Hike, Hagerty, Kiuff-man, Widdmombe, Clark and Sheehon. After enjoying themselves for several hours they started for home.' The boys are loud in praise of the way in which they were entertained.
< —Last Wednesday evening Rev. Father Z ihm delighted the Mmimsjwiih an artistic an I instructive stereopticon exhibition. He presented some fifty or sixty views of masterpieces of statuary and landscapes, also in my of*a humorus kind. The strong relief in which the beautiful sculptures were shown gave the appearance of solidity, and displayed their artistic merits to great advantage. Tne entertainment took place in the Minims’ study-hall, and although the time between the announceme it of the Exhibition and its taking place was too short for the Minims to invite many of their friends, nevertheless Very Rev. Father Provincial gladdened the little fellows by his presence. Rev. Father Zihm has the hearty thanks of the Minims and those in charge, and they hope he .will favort hem again with a similar treat at no distant day.
—We have heretof >re been silent with reference to the merits of the Ave Maria. a journal devoted to the honor of the Blessed Virgin and published weekly at Notre Dame. We have been silent for the reason that it might be supposed that we would be prejudiced because of its being issued from the same ofike as the Scholastic. Such, however, is not the case; we have refrained simply because.of appearances from saying anything in praise of this excellent weekly.. We have determined however now to break through the silence which we have heretofore observed, and tell our readers that they will gain much by subscribing for this beauufnl paper. We notice by the announcement recently made that the editor has secured for the coming year the services of Lady Georgiana Fullerton, Aubrey de Vere,Ebza Allen Starr, Henri Laserre, the Misses Howe, Eleanor 0. Donnelly, and others. Besides these, aseiies of articles entitled “Rays from the Tabernacle,” by M. L. M.. Author of. “ The Confessors of Connaught,” “ Stars of Our Lady,” etc., whose sketches are so lively and entertaining, will appear. “ Marie,” one of the best American Catholic poets, and whose poetical gems appear now and again in the “ Ate Mana'1 will continue her welcome contributions. An interesting article on “St. Winefred and her Holy Well” will be published in the course of a few months. As heretofore, the Ave Maria will contain
236
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
essays on subjects referring to the Blessed Virgin, edifying tales, historical and biographical sketches,- items of Catholic news, choice poetry, a regular Bulletin of the Association of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, a record of remarkable cures effected by the the miraculous water of Lourdes, etc. The Ate Maria also numbers among its contributors several of the lit. Rev. and Rev. Clergy, who generously' devote what time they can spare from other duties to writing for Catholic periodicals; also the distinguished authoress, Mrs Anna H. Dorsev. Author of “The Flemings,” “Tangled Paths,” etc.,etc. ;R V.R.; “Ninella”; “ Marian”; M. J.C.; and others, from whom contributions are received more or less regularly. The Childten’s Department will be made as entertaining and instructive as possible. A series of short stories by the gifted Author of “ Tyborne,” “ Holiday Tales,” etc., will be a principal feature of interest. Miss Elizi Allen Starr will also contribute to this department; among other good things, she will tell us all about St. Aloysius, having recently visited his shrine in Rome. St. Stanislas, and St. Frances too, will not be forgotten.
—The able and entertaining lecture of Prof. O. M. Schnurrer, delivered in Phelan Hall, December 12ih, was listened to with pleasure by all at Notre Dame possessing a knowledge of the German language. The subject was “Ancient Oracles and Modern History.” The lecturer addressed himself first to the heavenly Muses, invoking their aid, and promising them, in case of success, a crown of gold paper for their reward. He did not intend to deliver a theological or philosophical discourse, nor to sing the centennial praises of the American paradise either, but had rather say something about spirits and the ancient and modern belief in spirits, as manifested in the oracles of Greece and other forms of spirit-worship He next quoted some stanzas from Wieland’s Oberon, in which some valiant knight of the Middle Ages is willing to show his bravery in single combat or a general row, but refuses to pass by a grave-yard at the dread hour of midnight, for fear of the invisible blows that might come raining down upon him from the fearful ghosts. The lecturer then contrasted the Materialism of the present age with the spirit belief of former limes and declared himself in favor of the latter. The existence of a spirit world, he said, was a postulate of reason, a fact of our consciousness, a matter of experience and history, and the foundation of every form of religion. Scoffers at religion have overlooked the fact that all the forms of religion, pagan, Mahometan, Jewish and Christian, agree on the one common ground that spirits do exist and that man may enter into relations with them; the difference being rather in the different ranks and orders of spirits worshipped, and in the different manners of worshipping them. Thus Catholics would worship the great Master-Spirit and Creator of all other spirits in a manner pointed out by God Himself; Protestants, Jews and Mahometans in a manner of their own invention and choice, while pagans and idolaters worshipped the inferior or wicked classes of spirits, in a manner suggested by the demons themselves or their own inclinations. The speaker then proceeded to the religion of the ancient Greeks, which was essentially a worship of the departed souls of those renowned men and women of old, whom Moses describes under the genealogy of Cain, Lantech, and their offspring. Thus Apollo is the same that Moses calls Jubal, the father of those that play on harps; Vulcan is identical with Tu-balcain, a hammerer and master in iron works; Noema, their half-sister, being called Diana, and so forth. The whole Olympian Mythology, as reported by Homer, seeks too much after human fle-h to have any doubt about the spiritworship of the ancients being a worship "f deified ancestors. Then followed a de-cription of the Delphian oracle, its early discovery, its riches, influence, renown and the modus operand! when oracles were to be delivered. Next came a review of all the famous sentences«delivered by oracles, sibyls and prophets, their,verification and non-ver-ification. Finally, it was said, that to explain the great influence of these oracles, it was not sufficient to point to the ignorance, stupidity and superstition of those otherwise distinguished nations; neither would it suffi *e to refer it to the craft of a greedy priesthood; but its sufficient cause and intelligible reason must be bas< d upon the actual existence and real manifestation of a spirit world. The spirit of our
own age, though now disguised under the garb of materialism, will soon show its real face, and the modern sect of the Spiritualists are but the pioneers and advance-guard on the road towards Antichrist.
—The following is the programme of the St. Cecilians’ Eighteenth Annual Entertainment, to be given ou the evening of the 19th:
Music.............................N.	D. Cornet Band
Music ..................................Orchestra
Song and Chorus........................Choral U <ion
Address of the Evening.................A J. Burger
S<mg—“I’m still a Friend to You”.......W. J. Davis
Declamation—“ To day and To-morrow ”.. .F. Cavauaugh Declamation—“Word-Painting”............G. Crawford
Music...................................Orchestra
Prologue...............................Douglas Ryan
PART SECOND.
THE DUMB ORPHAN.
A Melodrama in Two Acts. Col. Rigolio..........................A.	J. Burger^
Capt. Xavier..........................M.	Kauffmann
Agostino..................................C. Clarke
The Biron...............................G. Sampson
Claudio................,..................R. Hayes
Pablo......................... ...........J. Hagerty
Estevan.................................J. Ohlman
Myrtillo (the Dumb Orphan)..............O. Lindberg
Gaspardo..............................F.	Cavanaugh
Benedict................................R. C. Mayer
Tomaso....................................C. Faxon
Stello....................................G. Sugg
Padro.....................................J. Mosal
Bartholo..................................C. Walsh
Francisco.................................T. Nelson
Carlo.....................................J. Phelan
Ludovico................................C. Orsinger----
Antonio...................................J. Healey
Anselmo.................................G. Crawford
Giulio..................................N. Vannamee
Ignatio.................................T. McGrath
Juan......................................F. Fischel
Leonardo..................................J. Perea
[Between the Acts, Messrs. Orsinger, Carroll and Otto will furnish appropriate Music, as will also the String Quartette.]
Music....................................Orchestra
4
THE VIRGINIA MUMMY. A Comedy in One Act.
Ginger Blue............................W. J. Davis
Dr. Galen...............................  C.	Hagan
Capt.. Rifle...........................W. Sheehon
Charles...............................A.	Widdicombe
O'Leary................................O. Lindberg
Old Reliable (a Schoolmaster)..........R. J. Golsen
Lucius....................................W.	Hake
Patent................................... G.	Cassidy
Epilogue ..............................W. J. Davis
Closing Remarks.................... Rev.	P. J. Colovin
March for Retiring................N.	D. Cornet Band
Roll of Honor.
. [In the following list are the names of those students who durin i the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Ames, W. Breen, J. Braden, H. Cassidy, R. Calkins, J. Coleman. E Davenport, W. Decbant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, J. Fishburn, T. Garrity, T. Garso, A. Hertzog, F. 8. Hastings, J. Hamilton. J. Hermann, J. Krost, J. Kinney, R. Kirby, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, J. Lambin, J. Larkin. G. Lonstorf, H. Maguire, F Maas, J. Montgomery. P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, M. McLoughlin, T. McGrath, J. McEniry, J. O’Rourke, P. O'Learv, L. Proudhomme, E P<-fferman, J. Patterson, T. fl. Quinn, E. RiopeUe, O. Rettig, M. Regan, P. Skahill, G.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
237
Saylor, T. Summers, F. Schlink, J. Silverthorn, P. Tumble, W.
Turnball, J. Vauderhoof, F.’ Vandervennet, W. Williams, G.
|	Whittenberger.
3	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
3	A. Bergck, W. Brady, A. Burner. F. Carroll, G. Cassidy, F.
3	Cole, F. Cavanaugh. A. Cougar, J. Carrer, G. Donnelly. J. Eng-
j	lish. R. French, C. Faxon, A. Gerlach, J. Healey, R. Hayes, W.
!	Hake, J. Ingwerson, J. Johnson. T. Knorr, M. Kauffman, J.
Knight, W. Lang, J. Lancaster, R. P. Mayer, C. McKinnon, J. Mungoven, J. McTague, W. Nichol is, T. Nelson, W Ohlman, C. Orsinger, E. Pennington, F. Pleins, E. Poor, J. Reynolds, J. H. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, 8. D. Ryan, Isaac Rose, H. Rogers, P. ''	Schnurrer, K. Scanlan, W. Sheehon, G. Sugg, J. Schoby, A.
Sievers, W. Taulby, T. Wagner, L. Wolf.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Hadden, G. Lambin. J. Scanlan, W. Coolbaugh, J. Seeger, E. Carqueville, W. McDevitt, G. Lowrey, P. Heron, C. Reif. H. Riopelle, H. Kltz, C. Kauffman, A. Rheinboldt, J. Inderrieden, i ।	John Inderrieden, C. Long, A. Sehnert, F. Carqueville, F. Gaffney.
' Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Senior.—J. Gray, W. Dodge, J. Larkin, J. D. Montgomery, O. Rettig, W. Farra, W. McGorrisk. E. C. Davenport, P. J. O’Leary, J. Kuebel, W. Williams, F. Keller, P. M. Tamble.
Junior.—J. Johnson, O Lindberg, R. French; A. Keenan, R. Keenan, F. Lang, K. Scanlan, F. Carroll, C. Johnson. R. Johnson, T. F. McGrath. W. Taulby, B. Heeb, F. Pleins, W. Widde-combe, E. Poor. F Lancaster, R. Mayer, T. Knorr, A. Burger, F. Rheinboldt, J. Healy, F. Cole, T. Wagner. W. Ryan, T. Nels >n. J. English, W. Jones, J. Boehm, J. Ingwersen, J Carrer, L. Garceau, J. Lomax, C. McKinnon, I. Rose, J. Scoby, J. Nelson, J. Ittenbach.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. Riopelle, F. Carqueville, F. Gaffney, J. Inderrieden, C. Kauffman, Jos. Inderrieden, H. Kitz, C. Long, A. Sehnert, A. Rheinboldt.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the ' Competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
FOR THE WEEK ENDING DEC. 7.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Book-keeping—O. Hamilton, J. Fishburne, M. Kauffman, F. O. Rettig, T. Fishel, T. Garceau, R Kirby, T Garrity, J. Van-derhoof. A. Baca, J. Patterson, J. Fitzgerald, L. Wolf J. Kin-nev ; Arithmetic—J. Fishburne ; Geography—J. Fitzgerald, C. Faxon; U. 8. History—R. Hayes; Grammar—A. Baca, J. Patterson, J. Fishburne.
Minims—P. Nelson, G. Lowrey, G. Rhodins, P. Heron, R. Pleins, G. Hadden, J. Scanlan, G. Lambin, E. Carqueville, C. Reif, W. Coolbaugh.

—Nov. 21st, the following young ladies were received as aspirants of the “Children of Mary”: Misses J. Cooney, M Dailey, M Dalton, E Dilton, M Halligan, J. Cronin, L. Pleins, G. Kelly; as a full member—Miss A. Walsh. The ceremony was performed by Rev. Father Shortis, in the chapel of the Immiculate Conception. Sunday, Dec. lOtb, the election of officers of the above named society took place. President, Miss H. Foote; Vice-President, Miss S. Moran; Secretary, Miss A. O’Connor; Treasurer, Miss M. Brady; Librarian, Miss J. Bennett; Sacristan, Miss M. Walsh.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
Faxon, M. Julius, M. Brady, L Beall. L. Johnson, J. Bennet, J. Nunning, A. Byrne, M. Walsh, M. Daily, R. Casey, K. Hutchinson, L. O’Neill, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, J. Cooney. A Henne-berry, L. Kelly, B. Spencer, M. Spier, H- Russel, J. Richards. J. Cronin, M. and E. Thompson, A. Cullen, E O’Connor, L. Roden-berger, 3. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carrol], B. Wilson, L. Weber, G. Kelly, M. Schultheis. C. Silverthorne, E. Bonton, M. Dalton, E. Davis, E. Pleins, L. Kirchner, K Kelly, L. Tighe, E. Dalton, J. Wilhelm, M. Smalley, M. Coughlin, M. Usselman, M. Halligan, J. Loman, H. O’Meara. C. Thaylor, 100 par excellence. Misses P. Gaynor, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, H. Hawkins, G. Wells, E. Siler, E. Forrey, A. Woodin, D. and A Cavenor, L. Schwass, A. Koch, M. Pomeroy, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, E. Davenport, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, E. Wier, E. Wright.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES.
Misses L. Ritchie, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, L. Johnson, M. Julius, P. Gaynor, A. Harris. C. Morgan. C. Boyce, J. Richards, H. Hawkins, E. Lange, H. Dryfoos, C. Silverthorn, E. Bouton, G. Wells, E. Siler, E. Davis, E. Forrey, A. Woodin, J. Stough, D. and A. Cavenor, L. Schwass. A. Koch. M. Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, E. Davenport, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, J. Burgie, E. Wier.
The Catholic young ladies being on Retreat are not marked in lessons this week.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. McGrath, M. Mulligan, A. Morgan. L. Walsh, L. Hutchinson, D Gordon, A McGrath. C. Corrill, E. Mulligan, L. Cox, F. Fitz, M. Lambin, M. Cox, C. Vannamee, E Wootten, N. Hackett. A. Williams, J. Butts, A. Getty, M. Robertson, L. Ellis, 100 par excellence Misses M. Ewing, A. Ewing. A. Kirchner, L. Chilton, E. Wight, I. Mann, L. Forrey, A Peak, M. Hayes, M. McFadden, J. Kingsbury.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH CLASSES.
1st Prep. Class.—Misses A. Morgan.
2d Prep. Cla>s. —Misses E. Wight, I. Mann.
Junior Prep. Class.—Misses A. Peak, C. Carroll, M. Hayes, F. Fitz.
1st Junior Class—J. Kingsbury, L. Ellis, C. Vannamee.
2d Jr. Class—Miss A. Williams. -
LATIN.
1st Class—Misses M. Cravens, M. Davis.
2d Class—Misses M. Carroll, H. Hawkins, M. Cooney.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses M. Faxon, J. Nunning, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, H. Julius, L. Kirchner, M. Schultheis, L. Weber, L. Pleins, L. Kelley, H. Dryfoos. A. Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses N. Davis, E. Harris, D. Gordon, M. Usselman. L. Walsh, L. Johnson, M, Spier, S. Hennebery, E. Koch, J. Cooney.
3d Class—Misses C. Boyce, Josephine Wilhelm, R. Casey. FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses L. Beall, M. and E. Thompson', B. Wilson, A. Harris, N. McGrath.
2d Class—Misses P. Gaynor, H. Russell, L. Rodenburger, J. Burgert, A. McGrath, E. Wight, J. Bennett, C. Silverthorn, A Walsh.
3d Class—Misses M. Brady, A. Byrnes, M. Daily, M. Walsh, M. O’Connor.
4th Class—Misses 8. Moran, J. Stough, D. Locke, J. Cronin, L. Hutchinson, M. Ewing, A. Ewing, D. Hayes, E. Mulligan, A. Wiliams, A. Getty, J. Butts.
—The Duchess of Devonshire used to say towards the close of her life, that, of the compliments paid her, the drunken Irishman who asked to light his pipe by the fire of her beautiful eyes, paid her the highest.
—With every exertion, the best man can do only a moderate amount of good; but it seems tn the power of the most contemptible individual to do incalculable mischief.—Washington Irving
jansen, McClurg & co., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STBEET,
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Cravens, M.
CHICAGO^ ILLINOIS.
238
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at caw, No. 225 Brady Si., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G. TONG, [of'65] Attorney and ronnseUor at Law, and Real .Estate Agent, Room No 2 Arnold’s Block, Sooth Bend, Ind.
TTT«~>Ar as; Ti. CEIFFORD, [«f '62] Attorney at
Law, 4ota.y Dublic and omn issiout r for all the States, 206 Bn-adwxy (cor Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of’74], Alter i eys at Law, Room 26, Ashland clock, N. is. <_or Clara, and Randolph sts , chieagt, 11
JOHN IT. McJtdL U GH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 •Jolumb.a at, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE DODGE [Chas J., Notary Public, and Win W, both of’<41, xltorn.ysat Law. Collections prompt.y made office H* dge's Block, Burlington, Iowa.
Orville t. chamberlain [of ’6<], At orney a law, N ’ary rubl.c and L’oa*m:stioner of Deeds. ■ Office. 91 Man St., tlktart, nd.
McBRIDE	MILLARD (Jas. E McBriie, rf
'68) Ai ’ys at Law, Solicitors n ha .eery, and Proctorc in id mira ty Practice in 11 th coats of *-ich and ot the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapid", Mich.
WIETuT A M J. CL 4 RKE (of ’71) Attorney at Law, RA.ms3&4, L^wB-ildtag No 67 s High S ., Commhus, O.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of c'ty and . couo y of Elkhirt. Office, 67 Main ^t., Elahart, Indiana. Special attention gi/en to Hydrialic Engineering.
ARTHUR J STAGE [of‘61], "ounty Surveyor for St Joseph County. Soutn Bend, tn t.
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Price 35 cts., postpaid.
The Scholastic Almanac, will contain, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It will be printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.
Contents.
Introduction—Astrological Predictions—Eclipses—Days of Obligation—Fasting Days—Time—Calendars—Festina Lente--Student’s Triumph—Il Ciriegio—What the Church has Done for Civilization—Peanuts—Alanus de Insults— The Old Church—Have We a Climate—Commencement Ode—A New French Novel—Sunshine Glistens after Rain —Sidney Smith—Leap Year—Ba’chelor Sketches—Count V<m Gutzendorf’s Ghost—The Miser—Building Castles— Hodie Mihi; Cras Tibi—Building a Bonfire—The Cake of the Dismal Tramp—Meeting of the Waiters—Plato on the Immortality of the S<>ul—On the Wide Atlantic—Cowper —D^nte and Pope Celestine V—A Model Studei.t—Have we Deponents in English—Geology and the Development Theory—0 a ion of W. J. Onaban—Haunted House— Answer—Squeamishness—Republic of Plato—Father De Stille.
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
■Weekly Newspapers.
THE SUN.
1877.	NEW YORK.	1877.
THE C ATHOLlC COLUMBf AN p ib iehed weekly at Columbas 0. subscriptions irom N^tre name’s students andiriends solicited.	D. A. Clarks, of '70.
THE A V E M ARIA, a Catholic joTna’ devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, n b’’s>ied every Saturdav at Notre Lame Ind Edited by a Prier t of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subset- p-tioi price, §1.50.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table—November 21, 1875.
		•Day	•Kal	l+Atlantic	t Nigh
	♦Mull.	Exoress.	Accom.	Express.	Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p m	9 00 p m
Micb."City..	7 32 “	11 00 “	6 30 “	7 40 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		9 02 “	12 09 p.m	8 20 “	8 55 “	12 35 “
** Jnr.kRnn. ...		3 55 “	Express	12 40 a m	4 52 •*
Ar. Oetr'it	5 45 “	• 25 “	10 15 “	3 30 “	8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	1U 05 a in	4 On pm	5 40 p w	9 50 p m
“ Jackson		0 40	12 32 p.m	7 15 “	9 25 “	12 42 a.u
“ Niles		3 45 p.m	4 23	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 10 “	5 35 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 50 “
Ar. Chicago.	7 30	8 00 “	10 20 t-	6 30 *•	8 00 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
going north.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. “ Notre Dame—8 22 *•
Ar. Niles—	9	00	“
7 15 p m.
7 23 “
8 00 “
§9 96 a.m.
9 07 “
9 40 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Nilps—	6	30	a.m.	4 20	p.m.	§8 00	a m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4	56	“	8	32	“
Ar. South Bend- 7 15 “	5	05	“	8	10
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “ 7 40 “
§5 00 p.m 5 32 “ 5 40 “
•Sunday excepted.	+Daily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
gSpncay only.
G. L. Elliott. .	Wx B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l bup’t, Chicago
Henby C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
The different editions of The Sun during the next year will be the same as during the year that has just passed. The daily edition will on week days be a sheet of four pages, and on Sundays a sheet of eight pages, or 56 broad columns; while the weekly edition will be a sheet of eight pages of the same dimensions and character that are already familiar to our friends.
The Sun will continue to be the strenuous advocate of reform and retrenchment, and of the substiiuiion of statesmanship, 'wisdom, and integrity for hollow pretence, imbecility and fraud in the administration of public affairs. It will contend for the government of the people by the people and for the people, as opposed to government by frauds in the ballot-box and in the counting of votes, enforced by military violence. It will endeavor to supply its readers-a body now not far from a million of souls—with the most careful, complete and trustworthy accounts of current events, and will employ for this purpose a numerous and carefully selected staff of reporters and correspondents. Its reports from Washington, especially, will be full, accurate, and feailess; and it will doubtless continue to deserve and enjoy the hatred of those who thrive by plundering the Treasury or by usurping what the law does not give them, while it will endeavor to merit the confidence of the public by defending the rights of the people against the encroachments of unjusiifi<-d power.
The price of the daily Sun will be 5 5 cents a month or $6.50 a year, post paid, or with the Sunday edition $7 70 a year.
TheSuNDAYeditionalone,eightj>ages,$ i aoayearpostpaid.
The Weekly Sun. eight pages of 56 broad columns, will be furnished during 1877 at the rate of $ 1 a year, post paid.
The benefit of this large reduction from the previous rate for the Weekly can be enjoyed by individual subscribers without the necessity of making up clubs. At the‘same time, if any of our friends choose to aid in extending our circulation, we shall be grateful to them, and every such person who sends us ten or more subscribers from one place will be entitled to one copy of the paper for him.-elf without charge. Atone dollar a year, postage paid, the expenses of paper and printing are barely repaid ; and, considering the size of the sheet and the quality of its contents, we are confident the people will consider The Weekly-Sun the cheapest newspaper published in the world, and. we trust also one of the very best.
Address,	THE SUN, New York City, N. Y.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
239
McDonald,
THE PHOTOG-RAFHEB,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thou-and miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show yon its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SJAJNT FBAHOISOO,
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs. Yankton. Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Hreen Bay. Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best, travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will takeno other
This popular r<>u-e is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smPoth. well-b lasted aud perfect track of ste-1 rails. Westinghouse a.r brakes, Miller’s safety platform and coupler0, the celebrated otullman Palace bleeping''ars, the perfect telegraph systeu of moving trains, the regularity with which they run. the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway i raveling.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line rnnning these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hughitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
’	■	• Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville. Il. and Louisiana. Mo........4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line..............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.......................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................  9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public t<> be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Bnren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p m.
Pern accommodation.............. 5 00 p m.	9 35 a m.
Night Express...................10 00 n.m.	6 5U a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE. NOVEKBSB, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Hara ; NEW YOKE.	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex Snnd’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night Ex. Ex Sa & Su
Lv. CHICAGO		9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 10 p.m. 1 04 a.m.	11 25 “	6 15 a.m.
“ Rochester			11 12 a.m.	5 54 p.m.
“ Pittsburgh		2 10 “	12 15 «	7 05 “
Lv. Pittsburgh	 Ar. Cresson		2 55 “	1 10 p.m.	8 10 “
“ Harrisburg		11 30 a.m.	11 05 “	3 45. a.m.
“ Baltimore		6 25 p.m.		7 35 “
“ Washington		9 07 “		9 02 “
“ Philadelphia		3 30 “	3 10 a.m.	7 35 “
“ New York		6 45 “	6 50 “	10 25 “
“ New Haven				11 52 “	10 40 “	3 26 p.m
“ Hartford		1 27 a.m.	12 11 p.m.	
“ Springfield		2 20 “	12 57 p.m.	
“ Providence		5 10 “	3 48 “	7 4“
“ Boston		6 15 “	4 50 “	9 05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs tne celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City. Philadelphia and New York without change. '1 hrough tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., ''hicago and St Louis Express, over Main Line, arrive,-at Toledo9 50; Cleveland220pm; Buffalo 8 10.
10 07 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55 p m; < leveland 9 45.
11 50 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives al Toledo 5 10; Cleveland 9 45; Buffalo 4 00 am.
0 1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40; Cleveland. 7 r5: Buffalo, 1 10pm.
4L 40 p m, Way Freight. '	•
GOING WEST.
3 4,5 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m, Chicago 6 30 a m.
5 38 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 820pm.
4. 05 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicano, 820	-
8 OOam, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chi* cage 11 30 a.m.
8 30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland. '
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Liv , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.
240
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
HOLIDAY, WEDDING, OR BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
Automatic Crystal Fountain.
Self-Acting, Requiring no Pressure of Water.
Patented Feb. 7, 1871.
Price Complete $ 1 5.
More elaborate styles furnished; also. Fountains for Counter use, with °nly s’lver-plated basin and jet in sight.
[^“Address for Circular,
c . J. W. TUFTS,
33 ~ba 39 Bowker St., . . Boston," Mass.
M. Livingston & Co.,
A-IE&ZE THS
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Send.
Tliey Have tlie Best Cutter in tile City nd make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. The’r stock of Clothing, Cloths, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents' Furnishing Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satis:action guaranteed on all goods.
REMEMBER THE PLACE.
91 MICHIGAN St., SOOTH SEND, IND.
MINERALS, SHELLS, BIRDS, &o.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “ Collections of Minerals.”
I have now over 38 tons, and near! v §35,000 worth of Minerals on band. I have sold over §17,000 worth since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. Yesterday, November 13lh, my cash sales were over §1,500 and cash receipts over §1200.
I have the best specimens ever' seen of Amazon Stone, Ruby Silver, Samarskite, Amethyst, Brookite, Columbate of Yttria, Zonochlorite, Chilenite, Chalcedony, Rutile in Quartz, Hydrotitanite, Itacolumite, Nigrin, Green Wavellite colored by Vanadium, Peganite, Smoky Quartz. Rock Crystal, Perofskite, Schorlomite, Aegerite, Feldspar, (pink, red, gray, brown and green,) Embolite, Melanite, Ozarkite, and Chlorastrolite.
My Mineralogical Catalogue and table of species, by which most minerals may be identified, illustrated by over §300 worth of engravings, is now ready for distribution. It is an excellent check-list containing in the price-list every species and all the more common varieties arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species after it will be found the species name, composition, streak or lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, sp. gr. fusibility and crystalization. Free to all customers ; to others on receipt of 10 cents for postage, &c. I desire especially to call attention to my remarkably fine specimens of Amazon Stone, of which I have or have had nine-tenths of all the specimens ever found. I have made,six trips to the locality, and think I may safely say that no more will be found. Good crystals from 15 cents to §100 each. ,
I have just purchased the best of the Ruby Silvers exhibited at the Centennial by the Chilian government. These are the only specimens weighing less than three lbs. that ever brought anything like §1,000 each.
I have the most beautiful green Wavellite and Pagenite ever known, colored by vanadic acid.
I am selling Amethyst at far lower prices than it was ever sold at before. Over §2,500 worth sold since the 10th of July.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional men. These collections illustrate all the principal species and all grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy ; Every Crystalline System; all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections are labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. .
All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and
table of species.
100 Crystals and Fragments for Study,..............§1.00
100 Specimens, Students’ Size. Larger, .............. 5	00
100 Specimens, Larger, Amateurs’ Size, 2X+1/4 inches, 10.00 Collections of Gems, Ores, Earthy Minerals, Minerals used in any Art or in Agriculture, on hand or put up to order.
We sell Minerals by weight, for the Chemist and blowpipe use, at very low prices, as Samarskite 25e. per lb., Allanite 25c. per lb., Brookite Pure Crystal 25c. per lb.. Rutile pure 25c. per lb.. Wavellite 25c. per lb.. Blend 10c. per pound.
I have just bought the famous Chilton Collection of Shells and Minerals, which has been on exhibition at Tiffany’s for the past two years. The original price asked was §3,000. It contained a number of unequalled things, among them a Rutile in Quartz, for which Mr. Chilton was offered §350 gold. A twin crystal of clear calcite containing % pint of water, weighing over 10 lbs. The only perfect spiny murex in the country.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727. and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals. Shells, . Plant-, Books, Fossils, Mound-Builders Relics, and all objects of Natural History except Minerals. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, a gentleman who was employed by the Smithsonian Institution in Souih America foi 3 years. I have a very large stock of Western and Southern birds on hand Also. Heads and Antlers for Museums, Dining Rooms, Halls and Libraries.
My collection of plants is very fine, comprising many that are rare, from the far North and West. I have just made arrangements to secure the Northern and Middle States (including Va ) collection® of A. H. Curtis, who will no longer deal in them.
I have several hundred volumes of rare old works on Mineralogy, Chemistry and t he Natural Sciences, among them many of the most interesting of the State and Government Reports.
A. E. FOOTE. M. D.,
. Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy,
.	- Fellow Am Ass'n Adv. of Science.
,	3725 and 3727 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.