Notre Dame kScholastic.
Disee quasi semper vioturus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 27, 1878.	Number 35.
An Evening Picture.
. -	BY T. A. DAUBY.
The dying sun crept pale and wearily Adown the broad expanse of crimson bars, And from the lambent East came drearily • A wan and dreary host of stars.
I	The air was heavy with the breath of vapors,
And sick with incense from an unseen shrine, :	That cast a pall before those heavenly tapers
And tinged the clouds with hues of crimson wine.
There is no sound of mirth—the day is dying.
[Upon the mountains of a mystic shore, Whence floats a sound as of a spirit sighing, “Farewell, farewell, I shall return no more.” t —South Bend Herald.
Centralization.
JOHN G. EWING.
The human race is one, and on this unity is founded society and social rights. The individual is restricted by the nation, and the nations, since man is from one and the same, are never independent and distinct, but are bonded together in what is known and called by Kossuth “ the solidarity of peoples.” This solidarity is the base of international law, and it binds all nations in the bonds of society. Hence the individual is restricted in his rights by society; society or the nation by international law or the rights of universal society.
The doctrine of the personal democracy of the South was to overlook the social basis of the State. They made power personal, and society and international law to derive all their power from the individual. Liberty was only • the right of those who could assert and maintain it. The danger in our country now is not this personal democracy. That, in the late Rebellion, was beat and vanquished at the last tribunal of man, and then by its own doctrine was it declared to be wrong and false. The danger in our nation is from the democracy of Humanity, the communistic tendency. The abolitionist looks not at the solidarity of the race, which implies individual rights, but at the unity, which would tend to deny them. He is socialistic in his tendency, and would give to our people a social despotism as absolute as that of an Eastern potentate. His power and influence were thrown with our nation in the last war, and his very friendship, accidental as it was, had many to look on our cause with doubt and suspicion. They, however, sided with our nation only because their foe as well as ours was on the other side; not for the sake of our nation’s life.
The cry of Centralization is equality, free if possible; if not, forced. It is the cry of all despotism. He held with our nation in order to obtain negro freedom, and then he achieved a laudable end. Not content with an end good and true, he called for negro suffrage, and after a struggle he obtained it. The curse brought on our nation by this premature granting of suffrage to the negro is well known. The authors of the scheme acknowledge it. The conferring on an ignorant and but lately enslaved race a power which is too often, alas, misused by men raised in freedom and liberty, was a blunder and a wrong; yea, a curse both to the nation and to the slave. The doctrine of universal suffrage, in my opinion, is true, and the best. It is essentially American. No restriction could be put on suffrage that would be true. The only plausible ones offered are Education and Property or Wealth. The last is a palpable wrong and absurdity, and the former is a most perfect impossibility. Suffrage is not an inherent right in man; it is conferred on him by the body politic. But it should be conferred as best suits the true interests of the State; and they are best suited by a universal suffrage. But the granting of this suffrage should be guarded, and the wholesale grant to the negro was not an act of justice, not of generosity. not of policy, not of wisdom. It was but a move to efface individual distinctions.
' Negro suffrage was declared and enforced, and the bitter and mistrustful era of the “Bloody Shirt” ensued. That ensanguined garment was shaken in the face of the North and South, to exasperate the latter to acts of violence and wrong, for which if any class in our nation had provocation to perform, it had; and to entice the former to retain in their places of power the preachers of perfect equality. The dangers of negro suffrage are passed, and to-day the negro is as good and true a citizen as many in our land. He has learned that not all that profess and cry out are friends, and he profits by that knowledge. Negro suffrage was granted for the purpose of retaining a party in power, and for a time it succeeded. Its effectiveness to that end has ceased, and now its evils in the past are acknowledged, and the wrong of the former slave and the late master is plainly seen.
Negro social equality was the next step, and its achievement in the opinion of its advocates is secured. But the strong-rooted manners and customs of a nation cannot be changed by hasty law, passed under the guidance of the party lash and the spur of party discipline. The law will prove ineffective. The nation in its clear judgment will recognize and discern the absurdity of unqualified equality of social rights. The law stands as a dead letter in the statutes of our nation. It is an attempt to enforce what only social rights can grant. It is a leap beyond the nation’s rights. It is an assumption that the nation can con-
546
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
trol a man’s associates and govern his social life. The palpable absurdity of the law renders it abortive. The negro recognized sooner than his pretended white friends the double wrong of the law, and none to-day more thoroughly in their practice deny it than he. So far has Centralization gone in the process of political and social equality, and its effects in this department of the nation’s life is known. Negro freedom was right and just. Negro suffrage is well, but was illy granted. Negro social equality is absurd, as it cannot be enforced, and is unjust if it could be. Such has been Centralization as seen under the guise of the Abolitionist. Starting from a true and just principle, little by little he leads to absurdity and injustice. To-day he goes still further, and attempts to destroy the natural distinction between the sexes. He would impose on woman the suffrage, and thus lower and degrade when he tries to elevate her in rank.
Let us turn to another phase of our many-faced foe. Equality of property! Why should that man be rich and wealthy, with lands and honors, with giant enterprises and noble undertakings, and I but a toiler and a tiller in the land ? It is the cry of the Commune in all its unreasonableness. Simply is this because so we are created. If man is dependent on man, if creature must look to fellow-creature for aid and sustenance—in short, if we are men, we ■ must have rich and poor, master and servant, high and low. The cry for property eqalization arose for a laudable end. It was to prevent the absolute denial to the people of the right of property, a God-given and inherent right in man, which none can take from him. To .enable the people to possess a home for themselves was it started, and this it has achieved. Then the aid of all good men was with it. But it cries for more. It would have the wealthy of all equal, and for this has it striven and worked. “ Let there be no master and slave. Let all be equal. Let the Government own all.” Try the system, and to what would it come unless to a most perfect despotism and Centralization? The cry of the Commune is wrong and unjust. Property equalization, if it mean the right of all to hold such property and the proper restraint on the owners of immense wealth, is true and sound; but if it mean absolute equality or Government ownership it points a sure and straight road to despotism, to Centralization. The baneful labor and tenant system of some portions of Europe is unqualifiedly wrong, as is the immense and preponderant influence of what are known as “ Monoplies,” in the true sense, in our land; but the palpable wrong of Government ownership and perfect equality is more injurious still, for it totally destroys society and the individual in a vain attempt to exalt the latter, by making away with master and servant, rich and poor, high aud low. The one is the assertion of individual power; the other is the denial of individual rights. The one asserting individual power still retains a semblance of society and recognizes bounds to a State;.while the second, striving for individual rights, destroys them, and makes a most despotic master in the despot State. Equality of property alone will not satisfy. We must make all other endowments equal; and hence we must continue until we lose man in a vague generality, mankind.
The last phase in practical life in which Centralization has appeared is that of education. Let every man be educated. It is essential to the well-being of the State. True and good is this proposal, and may all nations adopt it Have all educated. “ Let the State supply the funds for
the education of those who are unable to supply themselves.” True and just again. “ Let the State educate and decide what the child shall learn, and as we cannot give you all your religious tenets, we will give you none.” Here are the parents’ rights disregarded, and their abso* lute claim to have their children reared in what manner they see fit. But our humanitarian goes still further. “ Make public education compulsory on all, and close the private schools. Give the control of our schools into the hands of Congress, and then we will have a true and grand national education.” If this be not a most sure means of Centralizing our Government, then we have none. Moreover the system, true and good in the beginning, of our Public Schools has run to High Schools, and now contemplates a National University. Truly a common school system! As has been observed, we have no laborers or mechanics in the rising generation; all are gentlemen. The system of equalizing education is one most fruitful cause of this, and it will produce a great outbreak in our land. As long as we are men, and as long as our nature exists, there must be inequality: inequality of political and sociallife; inequality of property; inequality of mental worth. It is an absolute and necessary truth founded on man’s nature. Some must lead and the rest be led in this world, either in land, in social life, in politics, or in intellect. It is a necessity. All men have the right to property, to life, to liberty, and to social rights; but all are not equal in social, political, mental or material rank. And yet so reads the doctrine of Humanity, of Equality, of Centralization. In the attempt to make men equal in all things they destroy his rights, destroy the family, place the State an absolute despot.
Such is the many-sided Humanitarian doctrine, the doctrine of Centralization. In our land, besides striving to reduce all men to an equality, they override the rights of the States and exalt our National Government. Their logical end is Centralization and despotism. The foe of individualism starting for an opposite standpoint, tends to the same end, and gives but absolute sway. While Humanitarianism cannot stand the test of time, it can and does work evil. Starting under the guise of a well-known truth, it leads us on to error and falsehood. It is the denial of an essential and evident truth of nature that while men in their right to inherent rights can and must be equal, yet they have no claim on the accidental rights other than that of toil and labor. The doctrine of Humanity robs the individual, the family, under the guise of assistance. It is an attempt, but one among the many made by vain man, to acquire influence, rank, and wealth without the previous toil and labor demanded therefrom. As an absurdity it will fall, but absurdities work evil. Consider the olden Revolution and the latter Commune of France. Then look abroad in our land, and see its condition. Consider negro political and social equality in the South, the open and public meetings of the “Equalizers of Property ” in our great cities, the great and increasing number of children of poor parents educated as gentlemen, and these invading our towns and cities unwilling and unfitted to work. Look at the encroachments and usurpations of the last Executive, and the constantly-increasing power of the Federal Government. Weigh well the frauds and deceits of our political men; the specious plunder of our Treasury for the sake of pet corporations, the manifest refusal to recognize or hear the voice of reason and the people in our legislation, each and all of these may be traced to the doctrine and teachings of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
547
Humanity and Centralization now prevalent in our land. Its overthrow will come, but the evil it has done and will do shall take many years of toil and labor to efface.
A Thought on Music.
Music is one of the fine arts, and, like them, its primary object is to please. Its history is included in the literature of the most polite nations of Europe. Egypt, Greece, and Rome of old had, as oriental nations still have, their music, both vocal and instrumental. That music of old, especially Greek music, was greatly recitative, is well known from specimens still extant. It belonged, however, in a great measure to the Catholic Church to fully develop and perfect whatever remained of the old Greek system. "Under her fostering care and kind encouragement, music was greatly cultivated; for, adopting it to beautify and give solemnity to her worship, it gradually assumed grander forms; to melody harmony was added, and although at first rather discordant, and offensive in monotony, under the guiding hand of the great masters it grew to a state of perfection. Is there any comparison between the simple tetrachord of the old Greek system, and the profound and grand masterpieces of Haydn, Mozart or Beethoven ?
But apart from the origin, history, growth, development and perfection of music, we might view it in another more pleasing light. Inquiring minds rather prejudiced against the muse of song are wont to ask whether music has any influence, good in its character, over man: whether it reaches the mind or warms the heart? We must answer in the affirmative. Music, both vocal and instrumental, is a powerful means to sway the human mind and heart, both for good and evil, according to the right or bad use thereof; for such its past history fully testifies. Every day’s experience teaches the same. The little babe in the cradle goes to sleep over the lulling ditty of the fond mother, sung with affection and love, in order to soothe the angry feelings of the little sleeper. Who does not like to listen to the songs and merry carols of little children, innocent of mind and heart? It was my pleasure, some years ago, to be present at the First Communion ceremony of some two hundred children, all between ten and sixteen years. When the happy moment was about to come, all en-toned a solemn, beautiful hymn (a composition of Mozart) in honor of their heavenly Visitor. How beautifully those clear and rich voices sounded through the aisles, and reechoed in the distant vaults of the church! Now a sonorous, well-defined voice took up the melody in a soft andante strain: every syllable of those touching words was distinctly heard. A second voice now joined the first, and the strain was repeated in a subdued, harmonious duett. Then the two hundred voices joined the chorus majestic and grand. The music ceased. The last note had died away, and solemn silence reigned all around. On looking at my companion I saw a big tear stealing down his cheeks. It was a tear of gentle emotion, joy and happiness. It was the first time he was witness of such a scene, for his religion excluded all such soul-stirring ceremonies. He was touched by the beautiful singing of the children, and his soul was impressed with those emotions which music is wont to excite in those that have a taste and love for the beautiful and true.
There is such music as national music, and every civilized nation has its characteristic tunes. Among others, there are the troubadours of Provence, the minnisingers,
or minstrels of Germany, the bards of Ireland. Purely human feeling on one side, on the other national character are truthfully reflected in these songs, properly called folksongs. They embody the thoughts, literature, religion of those countries. Those were indeed chivalric ages, where love of country, respect for authority, faith in God and man, affection and love for the domestic hearth, parent, and friend, reigned supreme in the hearts of the bards, the representatives of the people. It is a delightful study to go through those ancient ballads rescued from the ravages of time and the hand of the barbarian destroyer; for their every line breathes love and affection, submission and reverence. In examining these original characteristic melodies, replete with a peculiar poetical charm, one cannot help wondering at the fact that a nation such as the Celtic never made a mark in the higher culture of music, and, as far as history records, never gave the world a composer in whose genius the art-world has found concentrated all the poetic individual characteristics of such a musically gifted race.
Music, like eloquence, appeals to the passions. As a gifted orator sways his audience and assimilates it, as it were, to his own feelings, his own views, his own self, so does music, in the grander and sublime forms, sway the feelings and arouse the dormant passions of men. Soul-stirring indeed are the martial strains of the Marseillaise as sung even by a moderately large choir of voices. But who could calmly listen to the notes of this revolutionary song, as coming from the infuriated breasts of the revolutionists determined in their blind passion either to conquer or to die ?
But the highest aim which the muse of song can propose to itself is to sing the glori.es and praise of the Creator, before whose high throne in heaven angels sing and the heavens applaud. In His Sovereign Presence no discordant voices are heard—eternal harmony and endless melody are the special characteristics of heavenly music. But even from this world of ours harmony and melody wing their way to the heavenly Throne. The roar of the ocean, the howling of the storm, the crash of the cataract, are but feeble notes in the grand chorus that forever swells this universe of ours and proclaims the glories and greatness of God. How beautifully a writer has written when he says: “All nature is full of music. There is music in the hum of the industrious bee as it wanders from flower to flower—music so sweet and harmonious that it seems, as it were, the lullaby to the thousand meaner insects whose couches are made among the roses. There is music in the grove-strains of sweetest melody from a thousand tuneful throats. "There is music in the breeze at eventide as it passes, Eolian-like, over the face of the earth. There is music in the gentle stream as it meanders, murmuring along through wood and wild. There is music in the air; myriads of unseen minstrels tune their varied instruments, and fill all space with heavenly sound. Romance, in its wildest dreams, never conceived anything half so mysterious as this—the reality surpasses the imagery. The tongue cannot express the music of the air—man is lost in the bare contemplation of it Who can write the language of God ? who paint His glory? who criticize His poetry? Earth His music-stand! the elements and creatures His instruments!”
Unfortunately, however, none of the sister arts is encumbered with so many prejudices as music. Though accessible to every human being, its meaning, both philosophical and aesthetical, is entirely overlooked, or not understood at
548	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
all. About none of the other arts is so much nonsense talked and written. Persons scarcely able to distinguish one tone from another, one air from another, will not hesitate to judge and condemn fine musical compositions—whilst trash works, medleys, and jigs are extolled to the skies by those worthy representatives of the musical art! Most of such persons, so fond of criticizing music, most of the time could not sing or play the simplest tune, nay even a fundamental scale, and the. theory of music is to others a terra incognita. But whatever may be the prejudices against the musical art—prejudices resting on no foundation whatever —oftentimes resulting from narrow-mindedness and always from lack of musical culture—music at the present day stands high, we may say unrivalled, among her sister arts.
This world of ours would indeed be a lonely and solitary spot to live upon if not enlivened and cheered by music. A country destitute of musical sounds—where music is an unknown thing, and noise, and nothing but noise, is heard, would not be visited by those possessed of a taste for the good, the beautiful, and the true; no more the merry notes of the plumed enliveners of the wood; no more delicious songs to greet our ears. No more grand organ strains, and sprightly and graceful string melodies. Man could not breathe such an atmosphere; he could not live in such a dead element No art is more closely connected with the inner life of man than music, whose magic power steps in precisely at that point where the positive expression of language fails. It participates in his struggles, triumphs, reverses. Music charms, it enhances man’s existence. What Sidney Smith said of wit we might with equal accuracy and propriety apply to music. Man could direct his way by plain reason and support his life by tasteless food, but God has given us music, song and verse, to en-ilven’the days of man’s pilgrimage, and to charm his pained steps over the burning waste.	E. L. C.
A Trip to Minnehaha.
It was during the summer of 1877 that some of our Eastern friends, while, on a visit to our Western home, expressed a wish to see that concerning which they had read so much but had never seen, namely the Falls of Minnehaha. The next day, the weather being fine, we started for Minnehaha by carriage, intending to visit Fountain Cave and Fort Snelling on the way.	.
The day could not have been pleasanter; and the drive, almost upon the very banks of the grand old Mississippi, was delightful. After a ride of about an hour, we made our first stop at Fountain Cave. Now, why this should be called Fountain Cave I cannot imagine, for after a most careful examination I could see nothing to justify the name. As to the cave itself, upon approaching it we could see nothing for miles along the prairie but a small group of trees, and it never entered our minds that there was such a thing as a cave within quite a distance of us. But suddenly the driver stopped, we alighted from the carriage and entered the clump of trees. We saw nothing there at first to interest us, but we heard the sound of running water. On going towards the place whence the sound proceeded, we saw an opening in the ground about 20 feet in circumference. We descended into this hole,* and found ourselves in a large underground room, as it were, surrounded by high, white, sandstone walls. At our right we saw an opening about large enough to admit two men at a time. This is the entrance of the cave. Through
the opening, a small clear stream of water flowed, and this it was that we had heard upon entering the wood. The cave extends for several miles under the earth, and as the stream extends further than the opening of the cave it is not known how far it may go. We advanced but a little way into the cave, it being cold and disagreeable, and then ascended once more to terra firma. The genial warmth of the sun had a good effect upon us after having come up from so cold and gravelike a place. We rode along for about an hour and a half more, when, above the trees, we were glad to see the stars and stripes floating. The driver informed us that we were approaching Fort Snelling. The fort is situated upon a high rocky cliff overlooking the Mississippi. The drives leading to it are steep and long. At length we arrived at the top of the hill, and we were well repaid for our trouble in ascending, for such a view of the surrounding country could be obtained from no other place. It was nearly 12 o’clock when we arrived, so we resolved to wait and see the dress parade, which takes place at this time. We were commenting upon the fine scenery, when we heard the roll of the drum, calling the soldiers to parade. It was a never-to-be-forgotten sight to see “Uncle Sam’s boys” go through the drill upon the green in front of the fort. Though we had taken a late breakfast, our long ride and walk were beginning to tell upon us, and we felt that a good dinner would not be out of order. But as there was no prospect of getting anything there, we once more took our route for Minnehaha, where we arrived about half-past one p. m. We alighted at a comfortable and homelike little hotel, and after having rested and dined we descended to the fall.
Upon proceeding some way into the woods, we heard a sound of falling water, pleasant and musical, and this sound it was that suggested to the lively imagination of the Indians the name of URnneluiha, or “Laughing Water.” As we neared the place from which the sound proceeded, we often stopped to view the landscape before us from some high rock or cliff. It was a lovely day, and under the shade of the trees we saw many travellers, “picnickers” and invalids from the South, lazily reclining upon the green turf. Here is seen an artist from the East sketching the surroundings of the falls; yonder an English traveller, with his “ Seemore” coat and eye-glasses, who had fallen asleep while taking his after-dinner smoke. Not far from him lies a “ tramp,” who, tired with his day’s walk, had gone to sleep under the friendly shade of a tree, feeling, for the first time in many days, perhaps, that jje was secure from the officers of the law. In fact everybody is so very democratic that should some of their city friends see them they would marvel greatly at the change. At length we arrived at the fall. It is situated in a ravine, and when we came within sight of it we thought that, to say the least, it was well worthy of the praise lavished upon it by our poet, Longfellow. The water falls some sixty feet, down into a basin, which it has doubtless worked in the rock by its constant falling. As the sun struck the water it reflected a thousand lights therefrom. I thought as I looked upon it, though it might not be so grandly sublime as Niagara, it was quite as beautiful in its graceful fall and in the musical and harmonious sound that proceeded from it. No loud, ’ deafening roar is heard as at Niagara, but its quiet falling fills you with a sensation of peace.
I must not omit to mention our guide. Now, I would advise anyone who has not visited Minnehaha to engage the services of a guide, for though he is not absolutely nec-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '	549
essary he will amuse you by his ways and stories. We engaged an old Chippewa Indian—a regular old aborigine, who said he was seventy-eight years of age, but was as hearty as a man of half his years. As we walked along he entertained us with legends of the vicinity of Minnehaha, which had been handed down to him by his fathers, and I assure you they were most interesting. He was the proud possessor of a name about as long as that of a Chinese gentleman; I would be happy to acquaint you, with it, but either my memory was so short or the name was so long that by the time he had reached the end of it I had forgotten the first part. He had been through all the early Minnesota wars between the Indians and settlers, and his face bore tokens of his having fared pretty hard. But we will return to the fall.
We went above it, and were much surprised to find that so large a volume of water should flow from so small a stream, for I might easily have jumped across it in two jumps. Under the fall is a path and a sort of a cave, extending about four feet into the rock, and here we sat down to cool off and to refresh ourselves after our walk. The mist which came from the fall felt good and cool upon our warm faces, and was so light that it was dried as soon as it came. The ravine in which the fall is situated is surrounded by high white sandstone cliffs about one hundred feet high, and in the soft stone nearly all of the visitors to Minnehaha carve their names. It is a sort of universal autograph-book, where the name of the great statesman stands beside that of the tramp who has no place he can call his own, and who has stopped a moment to see the fall, and for want of something better to occupy himself has carved his name there. But words are inadequate to describe Minnehaha and do it justice; nothing but personal observation can give one an idea of it.	W. A. W.
Lookout Mountain.
The suburbs of the city of Chattanooga, Tenn., extend to the foot of this mountain. Its towering peak proudly overlooks the city, and stands unrivalled in the sunny South as its grandest natural feature. From the city it is an abrupt ascent, and it appears as a world in the sky. On the south side of the mountain is a sloping, broken surface, a portion of which the persevering hand of man has converted into a smooth winding path, gradually ascending until it reaches the summit. About half way up is a dropping spring. It emerges into light from between two * ledges of rock, and comes trickling precipitously down the rugged steep, dividing into a million drops that shine like a shower of diamonds. It dashes into an overflowing basin and gently chases a narrow channel to the base of the mountain, where it'soon intermixes with the waters of the Tennessee River. To linger along this course after our natural romantic inclinations it takes over one hour’s time to gain the crest of the mountain. A road runs the whole length of the ridge, which in years of Southern prosperity served as a delightful riding park for the many who thronged there for a pleasant summer resort.
The top of the mountain is covered with various kinds of trees, overshadowing in many places masses of intertwined shrubbery. Here and there are rocks, from the size of a tent to an ordinary house, rising in the air as if erected as monuments to do honor to the loveliness around. Several elegant frame hotels have been built for the entertainment of visitors, and are situated about two hundred yards from
the summit of the mountain. These things are in themselves beautiful, but ratified by so conspicuous and picturesque a position are thrown beyond human conception.
In front of Chattanooga is the highest point of the mountain. Its pinnacle runs up tapering to a point until it hardly affords space for one to stand. It requires the nerve of a soldier and the courage of a lion to stand erect upon this eminence and gaze into the valley twenty-four hundred feet below. The city looks but as a picture, and when magnified by a large-sized telescope appears as a collection of toy-houses from the delicate hand of a tasty artist. Eight different States can be seen from this point. It was from there that the battle of Mission Ridge, beyond the city, was watched in breathless suspense. This mountain marks the spot where one of the bloody struggles of the late unpleasant contest was fought, and could it speak it would testify to the awful fate of many an unfortunate victim. A small artist’s gallery stands among the rocks near the top, where the beautiful surrounding landscape has been often drawn.	8. T. 8.
Scientific Notes.
—The crystals occurring in the sap of the Scotch fir are recommended to microscopists as beautiful objects for examination.
—Field-mice or rats are devastating the fields in Smyrna, digging up and devouring the seed-corn that has been planted.
—Mr. Stanley will visit Paris in June, before his return to America, in order to receive the medal accorded him by the Geographical Society.
—A tame sea-gull on the Isle of Wight has reached the age of 30, and is still active as ever, and in perfect health. Its regular diet is meat and fish, but it has a great fondness for cheese.
—A slow-worm has been in the possession of an English gentleman since 1850, until its death by a recent accident. It was several years old when caught, and remained in good health during its twenty-eight years of captivity.
—Notice has been made in English papers of a robin’s nest with five eggs, on which the bird was sitting the last day of 1877; and also of a thrush’s nest with four eggs that were being hatched the first week of the present year.
—The fungi collected during the Arctic Expedition of 1875-76, have been worked up by the Rev. M. J. Berkeey, who has obtained from them twenty-six species, all determined but two. Seven are new, and seventeen are well-known and widely-distributed forms.
—The body of a parricide was taken from the guillotine at Evreux, France, on the’15th of March, immediately after execution. When the corpse was laid in the coffin, it was agitated by such powerful spasms that twice it nearly jumped out of the case, and force was necessary to control the violent motions.
—The lands in the South Seas have been suffering from a severe and protracted drought Domestic and wild animals are.dying by thousands in Australia and Cape Col-onv. Many settlers, in the last-named region, who were' formerly well-to-do, have been completely ruined by the loss of their crops and herds.
—A touching case is mentioned in an English exchange, of a fox, followed by hounds, seeking safety in the midst of a flock of sheep passing along the road. It measured its pace with the animals whose protection it had sought in its extremity, and travelled with them some distance, but* was finally driven out from them, in order that the hunters on its track might not be deprived of the sport of running itjdown.
—It is related by Mr. Gasse, in “A Year by the Shore,” that certain sea-anemones so closely resemble flowers that even the bees are sometimes deceived. An instance is quoted in which an observer, “looking at a fine specimen
550
THE NOTRE’ DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which, was expanded'so close to the surface that only a thin film of water covered the disc and tentacles, saw a roving hee alight on the tempting surface, evidently mistaking the anemone for a veritable blossom.”
—It is stated in Nature that the rare phenomenon of St. Elmo’s fire was observed at several places in the Hartz Mountains during the month of February. At Blaken-burg, after a series of storms, the air was so laden with electricity that canes held aloft emitted from their points light-blue flames five inches long and three inches wide. At Dobbitz, the phenomenon was observed in the midst of a storm of snow and rain, when the ends of the branches in an entire grove were surmounted by flames from four to five inches in length.
—The Society of Missionaries of Algeria have been commissioned by Pope Leo XIII to found two large misssion stations in Central Africa,—one to have its centre on Lake Tanganyike, and the other on the Victoria or Albert Lake. Twelve missionaries have already left Zanzibar and will probably start for the interior during the present month. A similar mission is to be sent to the Capital of the Muata Yanro. The missionaries have been trained to the use of scientific instruments, and science as well as religion may hope to be benefited by their services.
—Mr. H. C. Cotterill has read before the Royal Geographical Society a report of the journey along the west coast of the Nyassa, in August last, which resulted in the discovery of the Kondi range of mountains. The expedition comprised about fifty men, under the direction of Capt. Elton. The country around the Chombaka River was found to be covered with groves of bananas. On crossing this stream and striking northward, a great plain was entered, with the Kondi Mountains towering high in the distance. The ascent from Nyassa had been constant, until at Mazotes a height of 6,000 feet above the sea was attained. From here, Capt. Elton, Mr Cotterill, and one other started for Mereris Town. Crossing the Kondi range, they discovered a splendid grazing country, 7,000 feet high, and plentifully watered. This broad plateau, called Uwanji, was divided by the Makesumbi River from an undulating country covered with thick bush. - Here Capt. Elton began to fail, and he finally died at South Ushekhe.
Art, Music and Literature.
—“ Stories from Homer,” by the Rev. A. J. Church, are to be followed by “Stories from Virgil,” by the same author.
—Messrs. D. Appleton & Co. have in press a work by Mr. George P. Prescott, on “The Speaking Telephone, and Other Electrical Novelties.”
—Several hitherto closed rooms in the Museum of Versailles, containing as many as 1,000 historic portraits, will be opened to the public from May 1.
—Max Mueller’s great work on the “ Sacred Books of the World” is progressing so rapidly that the.first installment will soon be given to the public.
—“ Marmorne,” of the “ No-Name Series,” has reached a second edition in England. The work has been recognized there as the production of Hamerton.
—Miss Hogarth and Miss Dickens, the daughter and the sister-in-law of the great novelist, are compiling a collection of the letters of Charles Dickens for publication.
—Andre Gauthier is creating a sensation in Paris by painting a landscape in five minutes, a portrait in six, and also by painting two pictures simultaneously, one with each hand.	’
—Rev. James O’Laverty, M.R.I.A., parish priest of Holywood, lias had published the first volume of his “ Historical Account of the Diocese of Down and Connor, Ancient and Modern.”	.	.
—Mr. C. J. Landers has arranged to continue the publishing business of the late Mr. W. B. Kelly, of Dublin. Mr. Landers was for many years with Mr. Kelly, at his Grafton-street establishment
—Risk Allah Hassoun Effendi, of Aleppo, who died recently, was one of the greatest of the Arabic scholars and
poets of the day. He was a naturalized English subject, and the author of several works in Arabic, both in prose and verse.
—Mr. John Boyle O’Reilly has another volume in the press, which will contain all his “ Songs of the Southern Seas,” formerly published in one volume, besides all his poems since written, and numerous poems that have never appeared.
—The second number of Jansen, McClurg & Co.’s “ Catalogue of Standard Books” contains a collection of literature that is in every respect superior. Never before has anything equal to it been offered west of New York, and indeed rarely there.	•
—“Le Nabob,” by Alphonse Daudet, has reached the thirty-seventh edition. It has met with a larger sale than “ Sidonie.” The author is busy at work on a third novel, which promises, according to his friends, to surpass either of its predecessors in interest.
—A posthumous work by Dr. Doran, entitled “ Memories of Our Great Towns,” is soon to be published in London. The work is enlivened by reminiscences and anecdotes of the worthies who have figured most prominently in the history of the places described.
—The Royal Geographical Society of Great Britain are about to issue a new edition of their “ Hints to Travellers,” revised by Mr. Francis Galton, F. R. S. The work was originally published in 1854, and revised editions were brought out in 1865 and 1871.
—An enlarged edition of Keller’s “Lake-Dwellings of Switzerland and Other Parts of Europe” is sent out by Longmans, London. It is in two volumes, with 200 plates, and comprises a summary of all that is known at the present date concerning lacustrine habitations.	.
—Mr. R. Cust’s work on the “ Languages of the East Indies” will appear about Easter. It will contain maps, bibliographical lists, and complete accounts, linguistic, historical, statistical and geographical, of the multitudinous tribes of India, so far as can at present be known.
—“ A Trip Up the Volga to the Fair of Nijni Novgorod” is the promising title of a book by H. A. Munroe Butler-Johnstone, which Messrs. Porter & Coates have on their spring list of publications. It is by an English traveller, and is said to furnish information regarding the trade, resources, mingled races, etc., of the Russian Empire.
—We learn from the American Architect that Mr. Ruskin has sent a score of the original etchings of Turner’s “ Liber Studiorum” to Prof. Norton, of Harvard College, who will have heliotype copies taken of them, together with others in Mr. Norton’s possession, making thirty or thirty-five in all. They will be issued in June, and only in sufficient number to supply subscribers.
—The collection at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington has been enlarged during the past year by the acquisition of twelve oil-paintings. The sale of photographs of objects in the Gallery has been greatly extended. Within two years and a half, 800 photographs of Muller’s “ Charlotte Corday in Prison” have been disposed of. The whole number of paintings in the Gallery is now 145.
—Jeanne Donst, born in 1870, is attracting attention in Paris as a musical prodigy. At a recent concert she played pieces by Mozart,' Mendelssohn, Chopiu, Schumann, and Sebastian Bach, not only with extraordinary mechanical facility, but with intelligence that would have done credit to far older performers. The other day she performed, accompanied by a full orchestra, Mozart’s ninth concerto by heart.
—A colossal statue in white marble of St. William of Vercelli, a Benedictine monk and founder of the Congregation of Monte Vergine, has been placed in the second niche in the left transept of the basilica of St. Peter’s. The statue, which is five metres high, and weighs twenty-two tons, is the work of Cavalier Prinzi, of Messina. The cost was defrayed by Dom Guglielmo de Cesare, Abbot-General of the Congregation. One hundred and twenty men were employed in raising the statue to its place.
—Eugene Benson, a writer for the Galaxy magazine in its early years, is a flourishing painter in Rome, Italy. An Englishman last week paid $1,500. for one of his Holy
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
551
Land studies—a small picture and a gem-glowing and Oriental. The last two winters, picture buyers having been comparatively “ few and far between,” the sale made quite a sensation among the Roman artists. Mr. Benson’s pictures have had a place in the Royal Academy, London, for the last three years. His taste is fine and his brush delicate.
—The death of Sir G. Gilbert Scott, the English architect, occurred on the 27th of March. He was the grandson of the Rev. Thomas Scott, the author of a popular “ Commentary on the Bible,” and was born in 1811. He designed the Martyr’s Memorial at Oxford, the Church of St. Nicho-r	las at Hamburg, the Cathedral at St. John’s, Newfoundland,
St. Pancrea’s Station in London, and many other important buildings, restorations of cathedrals, etc., etc. Perhaps his most conspicuous work is the Albert Memorial at Kensington, which procured him the honor of Knighthood by the Queen.
—The forty-ninth annual exhibition of the Academy of the Fine Arts at Philadelphia will open the 22d of April, and continue until the 1st of June. The Academy has lately received a gift of thirteen oil-paintings from Mrs. Sarah Harrison. Among them are works of Bonguereau, Vanderlyn, Wittkamp, West, Rembrandt Peale, etc. Seven of the pictures are to be held by the Academy in trust for the city,—the donor desiring that they might form the nucleus of a Free Gallery of Art. During the quarter ending Nov. 30,1877, lol students were in attendance at the Academy Schools. Of these students, fifty-one were women.
—There exists in England a sculptured effigy of Napoleon I. by Canova, viz., the colossal statue, 10 Roman palms high, in Carrara marble, completed and sent to Paris in 1811, and now in the possession of the Duke of Wellington, at Apsley House. The statue is nude and holds in the right hand a globe surmounted by a winged figure of Victory. This statue has a brief but curious his.	tory. When the Allies entered Paris in 1815, for the second
|	time, Canova, who was in the train of the allied sovereigns
'	was extremely anxious to know what had become of his
■	masterpiece. Baron Denon, Curator of the museum of the
Louvre, denied all knowledge of the work, nor could the intendants of the ex-imperial palaces furnish any information. One official, however, had a hazy recollection of the Empress Maria Louisa having expressed herself as extremely shocked at the representation of her august consort in so complete a state of divestiture from his traditional boots, buckskins, and grey great coat. At length the staue turned up half unpacked, in a lumber room at the Garde Meuble. The triumphs of 1811 had been followed with terrible swiftness by the disasters of Moscow and Leipsic, and the colossal memorial had been wholly forgotten. Of course it had now become the property of the French Government. Louis XVIIL, however, would have none of it, and presented the marble to the Prince Regent. Had Canova’s Napoleon possessed so much as a kilt, the figure might have been retained by royalty; but, like Hans Breitmann’s mermaid, it had “nodings on;” so George IV. presented it to the Great Duke, and at the foot of the grand staircase at Apsley House the sumptuous effigy stands to this day. ______________________________
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received the American Catholic Quarterly Review, a notice of which will appear next week.
—The May number of Our Young Folk's Magazine-is as charming as any of its predecessors. Terms, §1.60 a year. Address, Box 3090, Boston, Mass.
—We have received from the Catholic Publication Society The Young Girl's Month of May by the author of “ Golden Sands.” It is a neat little publication and may be had for 10 cts., or §5 per 100.
—We have received from Mr. Allen B. Lemmon, State Superintendent of Public Instruction, of Kansas, a copy of the “ New Rocky Mountain Tourist,” a useful work for all persons seeking homes in the Great West.
—The May number of The Catholic World has several articles that command attention; the whole number is a
happy and skilful combination of brightness and strength. The opening article on “The Future Destiny of Man” deals with the question of future rewards and punishments which at present so agitates the public mind in this country and abroad. “Prohibitory Legislation: its Causes and Effects ” treats of the attempt to enforce sobriety by law. The article is bold, strenuous, and practical, and takes the contrary and correct view to that of the Prohibitionists. “A Sectarian Diplomatic Service ” attacks in no measured terms the whole school of American representatives abroad for allying themselves with the anti-Catholic sects. “ The Literary Extravagance of the Day ” is another aggressive article, whose title explains its purport. These are the most prominent articles; but there are others of exceptional merit and interest: “ The Archiepiscopal Palace at Beneventum “ German Homilies on the Gospels”; a paper on “French Proverbial Sayings”; another on “Respectable Poverty in France ”; a letter from Rome describing the scenes at the coronation of Leo XIII, etc., etc. That admirable story, “The ’Home-Rule Candidate,” is brought to a close in the present number, and a new story —of Bavarian life this time—begun. The poems show that superior excellence which The Catholic World always commands; among them is another instalment of Dr. Parsons’ scholarly and noble translation of Dante’s Pur-gatorio. Dr. Parsons is the ablest student of Dante in the United States. The literary criticisms are bright and keen, as they always are in this magazine.	•
—The Catholic Record for April has the following table of contents: I, Leo XIII and his New-found Admirers, by Rev. Joseph V. O’Conor; II, Easter Lilies, by M. M. Me-line; III, Sonnet of Love, by M. F. Egan; IV, The Last Acts of Pius IX; V, The Legend of Roses; VI, A. Question of Honor, by Katharine E. Conway; VII, A Visit to Carmel and Beyrout; VIII, Ode to the Society of Jesus, by Eleanor C. Donnelly; IX, A Plea for a Bachelor’s Manual; X, Hope and Prayer, by John Arthur Henry; XI, Letty Dormer; XII, St. Bernard; XIII, Editorial Notes; XIV, New Publications; XV, Valedictory.
With this number the publication of the Catholic Record ceases, not, as we are told in the valedictory, for want of support and encouragement, but in order that the energies of the publishers might be concentrated on their other publications, the American Catholic Quarterly Review and the Catholic Standard. “Looking,” says the valedictory, “at our relation to the other two publications already mentioned, each extending from different sides over the field occupied by the Record, we have been forced to the conclusion that it would be better for the cause of Catholic literature in the United States, and the general interests we have at heart, if the time, attention, and labor required to maintain the Record in the position which, with the co-operation of many warm and earnest friends and supporters, we have succeeded in gaining for it, were concentrated upon our two other publications. The Catholic Standard, as we have already intimated, covers the greater portion of the ground occupied by the Record, and what it does not is effectually covered by the American Catholic Quarterly Review. In discontinuing the Record, and concentrating our time and energies upon the Review, we do not, therefore, feel that we are abandoning to neglect any portion of the field we have heretofore endeavored to occupy; but rather that we are preparing the way for deeper and more thorough culture.”
The Catholic Standard is one of the very best of our Catholic weeklies and deserves the encouragement of everyone residing in the diocese; as to the American Catholic Quarterly Review, it should be found in every library and in every Catholic family of culture.
—If the man who writes anonymous letters has never stolen sheep, it is probably the fault of the sheep.
—St. Gregory of Nazianzen and St. Basil loved each other, because they esteemed and respected each other mutally. There was, besides, in them an admirable conformity of tastes and an equal ardor for the acquisition of virtue and science. In all their actions they only sought the glory of God: towards that they directed all their labors, their studies, their watchings, their fasts, and the employment of all the faculties of their soul.—Giry.
552
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Noti'e Dame, Ajpril 27, 1S78.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 JPex- Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Wild Flowers.
Surely the above is a strange title for an editorial, but now that the spring of the year is here it may not be amiss to repeat what was said in a former number of the Scholastic about wild flowers to stimulate our young scientific readers to put in practice what they have already seen in class.
The wild flowers of Europe have been often the theme of the Poet’s song, so that their names are better known to Americans than the flowers themselves, and are adopted by young aspirants to poetry, without any distinct idea of* ' what they mean. So the violet is praised for its sweetness, whereas the American violets are generally scentless. The names of others are conferred upon American plants which bear little resemblance to the originals. So when we read in Shakspeare of the “ cowslip,” instead of an elegant and fragrant species of the genus primula, a coarse and scentless cdUha, rises before our imagination, whose only claim to our regard is its early and welcome appearance as the forerunner of spring. But we have wild-flowers of our own, equally worthy of poetic fame with the better-known European plants, and if young poets wish to write about what they understand, and understand what they write about (which is questionable, as common sense and poetry are irreconcilable enemies), they should take advantage of the present early spring to become acquainted with the wild-flowers of their native country.
The first flower of the year is the hepatica, whose blossoms of rare hyacinthine blue, open only on sunshiny days, may be found about the beginning of April, on the banks of the river. As the season advances, they appear in great quantities on the shores of the lake, and through the woods in general. Their color varies from sky-blue to lilac—almost pink, and sometimes they are found pure white, which is always the color of the tassel of filaments in the
middle of the blossom. They have a sweet though scarcely perceptible smell.
Soon after, the milk-white and fleeting flowers of the bloodroot (sanguinaria) spring up from the rich, black mould of the woods in the river flats, and the shining, delicately-penciled clusters of spring-beauty (claytonia) appear. In these same low woods there is one spot—and only one, we believe,—where the dogtooth-violet (erythronium) blooms—for one short week, covering the ground with its delicate, lemon-colored flowers and glossy green leaves. We have watched this little patch for more than six years, but have only once seen it in full bloom.
About two miles north-by-east of the College, an extensive swamp stretches in length about a mile, and in breadth less than half its length. The northern and eastern borders of this marsh are covered in spring by the aromatic leaves and scarlet berries of the wintergreen, and the trailing stems of the mayflower (Epigaa), which, this year, will bloom in advance of the month from which it takes its name. It is questionable, indeed, whether it does take its name from the month, or from the ship in which the Pilgrim Fathers arrived here, as its name of “ mayflower ” is peculiar to the Eastern States,—further South it is known as the trailing arbutus. But about its claims to be the chief of our native spring-flowers, there can be no question. Its waxy, delicate rose-tinted blossoms, and its rich, fruity fragrance, combine all that can render a flower lovely, while the time of the year at which it appears makes it doubly welcome.
With the beginning of May the wild flowers become “ too numerous to mention.” There is a species of trUlium, having three large snowy-white petals, sometimes lightly streaked with crimson, which is an admirable decorative emblem for the altar of her who is the special object of the devotion of the month. It first appears in the woods down by the river, but the largest and finest specimens are to be gathered later in the month, near the creek which runs about three quarters of a mile north of the College, under the wood which skirts the narrow meadow-land on each side of it. In the same place the large yellow lady’s-slipper is to be found, and on the meadow itself, the scarlet painted-cup, growing in such profusion as to redden the appearance of the grass. Three kinds of phlox are particularly remarkable: one called the ground pink, almost white in color, grows on the sandiest and steepest banks of the river; a second, of a rich lilac tint, on low damp ground; the third approaches to crimson, and is found in great profusion on higher and drier grounds, with the blue spikes of the wild lupine.
As the days grow hot, in May and June, the wild rose blossoms round the lake—a dwarf variety—with the harebell, which is the “ bluebell ” of Scotland. The tiger-lilies in two varieties, one a turncap, belonging to the marshes, and the other a cup, growing in the woods and on the roadsides, come in with the beginning of vacation, and are the principal flowers of summer. At the same time, the marsh pink, a tall elegant spike, of a tint between rosecolor and lilac, appears in the low ground between the lakes.
The month of July and the beginning of August are not favorable to the floral race. The hot dusty days drive everything that is fresh and delicate from the roadsides and fields, while the woods and marshes are filled with a luxuriant and rank vegetation. But when the nights begin to grow long, and the mornings cool and dewy, the cardinal flower (lobelia), the most brilliant blossom which we have,
l
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
553
r
decorates the woods, its bright red petals glowing among the depths of green foliage. Its efforts to make the world gay are ill-supported, however, by a numerous, coarse, and brazen-looking tribe of yellow or greyish lilac-flowering plants, of the natural order composites which seem to cover the the fields, woodlands and roadsides with the indifference of vulgarity, their iron constitution enabling them, alike, to endure the heat and dust of travelled ways, and.to force a passage through the wild luxuriance of the tangled thicket.
We have merely noticed a few of the more remarkable of our wild flowers, with a view of stimulating all lovers of nature to research. In a botanical point of view, of course, there are many plants of more humble appearance which are equally—if not more—interesting to the student. But we have not written as a botanist. We are simply an admirer of the blossom, without caring whether it is a corolla or a calyx. If we have in some cases subjoined the scientific name, it is where the common name may not be sufficiently well known. We trust that the diligence of our friends during the favorable season will convince us that we have made many omissions from our category.
Personal.
—Rev. Father Ahern, of Cincinnati, was here on the ' 19th.
—Mr. D. Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio, was at the College on Easter Sunday.
—Rev. Father Baroux, of Ecorse, Michigan, spent several days at Notre Dame.
—Louis Sievers (Commercial), of ’77, is in business with his father in Chicago.
—We were pleased to see Rev. Louis Sifferath, of Detroit, Mich., here last Tuesday.
—C. M. Proctor, of ’75, and Thos. A. Dailey, of ’74, were at Notre Dame on Easter Sunday.
—Arthur Breckenridge (Commercial), of ’58, is in the freight office of the P., F. W., & C. R. R. Company, Fort Wayne, Ind.
—J. J. Luken, of ’54, was at Notre Dame on Monday last. Mr. Luken is the agent in Chicago of Nienaber, Son & Co. of Cincinnati, Ohio.
Notre Dame was honored with a visit of Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., President of the College at Watertown, Wis. He is in excellent health.
—Rev. W. F. O’Mahoney, C. S. 0., lately preached the Forty Hours’ Devotion at Elkhart, Ind., to a crowded church. For three days the confessionals were thronged.
—Rev. R. Shortis, of ’49, Chaplain at St. Mary’s Acad-amy, Notre Dame, Ind., having entirely recovered from his indisposition, may be seen frequently at the College, where he is ever a welcome guest.
—On Easter Sunday Mr. P. Hurth, now in charge of the Manual Labor School, made his religious profession. Mr. Hurth is an excellent man, greatly beloved by the pupils under his charge, who all join in congratulating him upon the step he has taken.
—The Editor of the Scholastic was at Fort Wayne on Holy Thursday, where he was very happy to meet John H. Fleming of '62, and Wm. P. Breen, of ’77. Mr. Fleming is in the County Clerk’s office, and Mr. Breen is studying law. Mr. Joseph Beegan (Commercial), of ’75, is in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court	.
—We are pleased to announce that on Ascension Day, Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, will administer the Sacrament of Confirmation at Notre Dame. On the same day he will sing Pontifical High Mass. The First Communion of those prepared among the Catholic students will take place that day, and in the afternoon there will be the renewal of the baptismal vows.
—Weare sorry to announce the departure of Prof. L. Gregori from Notre Dame on Wednesday last, the 24th inst. The series of paintings in the new Church is now done. We intend to give in some future issue an extensive description of the'whole work; for the present suffice it to say that the whole Church is a specimen of artistic skill which does honor to the University and will be a lasting memorial in praise of our friend; Prof. Gregori. The whole work speaks for itself. The Professor is now, we understand, to open his studio in Chigago, and can now freely and promptly attend to the calls that his friends there will favor him with. We wish him every success in his new engagement and assure him that he will always be a most welcome visitor to Notre Dame.
—“The Rev. Dr. Hallinan, at St. Mary’s, yesterday morning delivered one of his most polished discourses. The subject was ‘Gentilism, or the Religion of Cultured and Refined People prior to the Era of Christianity.’ A member of our reportorial corps speaks of the discourse as one avouching industrious research set forth with profound thought and with a wealth of eloquent illustration, surpassing even the former efforts of this distinguished divine.” We are glad to see the Lafayette Journal, April Sth, 1878, speaking in this manner of Rev. Dr. Hallinan,-who while Professor of Theology and Moral Philosophy in this University earned the respect of all here on account of his kindness and genial manners, and their admiration on account of his wide store of theological and philosophical learning.
—The Lacrosse Nord Stem speaks of Wm. Hoynes, ot ’69, as follows: “Mr. William Hoynes, of Chicago, whom we knew fourteen years ago, when he was doing the ‘ devil’s ’ work in the Republican office, visited us at our office recently, and it pleased us exceedingly to meet again the good-looking, strong and well-educated man who had grown up from the former ‘devil’ boy. Mr. Hoynes some time ago became a writer and Associate Editor, and for a number of years dovoted himself to the study of law at college, from which he graduated with honor. Mr. Hoynes now resides at Chicago, where he has settled as a lawyer, and assists ‘Brick’ Pomeroy in editing his Democrat. Mr. Hoynes has also found time to take up the study of the German language, which he is able to read, write, and speak fluently. He has become a sterling man through iron perseverance and self-will. He is a good model of a young man, and he will most assuredly have a very brilliant career, if he does not allow himself to be put on the wrong political track by Pomeroy.”
*	Local Items.
—The usual monthly Conference took place last Wednesday morning.
—The trees are all budding and in a few days Notre Dame will be lovely.	.
—Most all the students fasted on Good Friday; but when dinner-time came, oh my!
—The Bulletins for the month of April will be made out next Wednesday, May 1st.
—The banquet tendered to the Columbians by Prof. Edwards was well enjoyed.
—Has the last musical soiree of the year been given ? We hope not. When will we have one ?
—Mr. Bonny was at his stand here last Wednesday and did a pretty brisk business taking photographs.
—We had very severe showers of rain at the beginning of the week,—but didn’t they bring out the leaves on the trees!
—Our friend John insists on spelling “rec.” with a k, but little h’ell reck if you get him “ rec.” what you say of his orthography.
—Some Seniors were engaged in fishing on the upper lake last Wednesday, but with little success, as there was too much wind.	.
—The orchard southeast of the upper lake presented this last week a very pretty appearance. All the trees were in full blossom.
554
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—It has been remarked that the best penmen among the students are the baseball players. We can’t see what baseball has to do with penmanship.
—The stage erected in the play-hall of the Manual Labor School for the Entertainment to be given by the pupils of that institution next Wednesday is nicely made.
—The Junior fishermen last Monday managed to catch in one hour enough fish to supply four tables. The last thing, however, that they caught was a ducking.
—We do not remember to have ever seen such glorious weather on an Easter Sunday as that this year. The day following, however, the storm, though short, was severe.
—Everyone should remember that he has no business at a rehearsal unless he is invited. This has reference to every one, and he should not think it means his neighbor only.
—Nearly all the members of the Junior department have provided themselves with fishing-poles. When they present us with a string of fish we will say more about their sport.
—Before his departure from Notre Dame Prof. L. Gre-gori requested the Scholastic to bid a most cordial adieu to all his friends here and especially to the students of the University.	’
—The weekly Register of South Bend has donned a new dress, and the daily comes out as a morning paper instead of an evening one as formerly. The weekly Register is a handsome paper.
—We are pleased to hear that the students take quite an interest in the trees that have been lately planted around' the Campus and that several have volunteered to keep them watered.
—The steward tells us that 25 barrels of flour are consumed here weekly and 600 pounds of butter. During the Lenten season on an average 600 dozen of eggs per week were used.
—On Easter Sunday there was of course Solemn High Mass, Very Rev. Father Granger, Provincial, officiating. Very Rev. President Corby preached on the occasion an excellent sermon.	.
—We hope that none of the trees lately planted will be interfered with by thoughtless people pulling and shaking them. If allowed to grow, there will be in a few years plenty of shade along all the walks.
—The 29th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place April 23. Essays were read by J. Healey, A. W. Widdicombe, and G. P. Cassidy. J. Perea, G. Donnelly and C. Hagan declaimed.
—It is said that there were over two hundred livery and other teams hitched outside the Church on Easter Sunday. There were large parties here from South Bend, Elkhart, Mishawaka, Niles, Carlisle, and other towns.
—The first of the series of games for the championship of Notre Dame was to have been played last Wednesday between the University and the Enterprise Clubs, but the rain compelled the Clubs to postpone the game.
—The Juniors went fishing last Wednesday and were favored with luck. The fish caught were served out to them on Thursday morning. Master John Guthrie caught the largest fish. It weighed one and a half pounds.
—The rain last Monday interfered with athletic sports. However, the members of the Junior department consoled themselves by taking a fishing jaunt. The nimrods just got back in time to save themselves from a shower-bath.
—The exercises of the month of May begin next Tuesday evening. Every Monday evening there will be a sermon of ten or fifteen minutes; Tuesday, sermon; Wednesday, Benediction; Thursday, sermon; Friday, sermon; Saturday, Litany of the B. V. M. and Beads.
—On to-morrow will be the last meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary until June, when one more meeting will be held. The meetings of all the religious societies have during the past year been extremely interesting, and were productive of much good.
—The Jewish students, of whom there are several attending class at the College this year, celebrated their Pasch on Thursday, the 18th. It was remarked that all,
even the youngest, kept a strict fast on the eve They had recreation on the festival itself, and a fine day to enjoy it-
—The Sunday News, a very neat and handsome paper, has been added to our exchange list. It is published by Judge Turner at South Bend, and the first number gives earnest of an excellent paper. South Bend now publishes two dailies and four or five weeklies. This speaks well for the business people of the Bend.
—On account of the May devotions, the meetings of most of the literary societies will be given up until June, when the final meetings will be held. We would suggest now that the representatives of the societies be appointed for Society Day. This will give all the representatives ample time to prepare to acquit themselves creditably, and make the exercises of the day interesting.
—Notre Dame has reason to congratulate herself this year. In former times it always happened that on Easter Sunday there was some one sick, or some accident took place so that all the Catholic students did not make their Easter duty on the same day; but this year every single Catholic in the Senior Department went to Holy Communion on Easter Sunday. The Juniors and Minims received on Holy Thursday.
—Next Wednesday evening the pupils of the Manual Labor School will give a private Entertainment in their recreation hall. No one not having an invitation will be allowed to witness the performance, and consequently it is hoped that none will intrude. The pupils will play “ All at Coventry,” “Cherry Bounce” and “Box and Cox.” After witnessing the rehearsals we can safely predict a successful Entertainment.
—The Philopatrians have begun their rehearsals. All who are to take part in their Entertainment know their parts, and we have every reason to believe that after a little training under Prof. Lyons they will make a very creditable appearance. There is certainly a great deal of talent in the Society, more, we believe, than in any former year and at this their first and only public Entertainment of the year we expect a great deal from the organization.
—As a rule, our climate here, though humid (owing no doubt to the proximity of the lakes, and other bodies of water in the immediate neighborhood), is not at all a wet or rainy one. The past week, however, has proved an exception to the general rule. It would seem as if the April showers had for once consolidated and expanded themselves for a steady rainfall, for on Tuesday, Tuesday night and part of Wednesday it rained almost constantly. It is seldom that rain continues here for more than an hour or two at a time, and we think that in the last ten years the fall of water here would scarcely reach the average of a five year’s rainfall in districts further south.
—The picture of the towel of Veronica exposed in the church for the three last days of Holy Week is the work of Prof. L. Gregori. It is a fac-simile of the true towel which the pious woman Veronica handed to our Lord on His road to Calvary, and with which He wiped His Adorable Face and returned with the image of His Divine Countenance imprinted on it. The true Sudarium is preciously preserved in Rome and publicly exposed for the devotion of the faithful during the latter part of Holy Week. Prof. Gregori has the thanks of the whole congregation for his kindness and generosity in presenting this pious production of his artistic skill. It may not be out of place to remark the prints of the Holy Face usually to be had are not at all like the original, therefore Prof. Gregori’s fac-simile is the more valuable as giving a true represanta-tion.
—Of the Missa de Angelis, sung here frequently by the students, it is said that a company of soldiers of Bonaparte’s army, which belonged to the pious city of Lyons, in France, sung it in thanksgiving on their return home, after a most disastrous campaign, in which the greater part of the regiment, of which they formed a part, had been cut to pieces. When they had approached within a short distance of the city: “Comrades,” said one of the soldiers, “shall we enter Lyons like heathens—shall we not return thanks to God for our safe and happy deliverance from the many dangers of the war, in which we have been engaged, before we enter ? ” “ Certainly,” replied another, “ it is our duty
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
555
to do so. But what shall we sing?” “A TeDeum," exclaimed a number. “No, that will not do,” said one of the troop, “ the soldiers do not all know it by heart; they will not, therefore, be able to follow. Chantons plutot le Credo de la Hesse que Von chante ordinairement dans notre Paroisse. Let us sing rather the Credo of the Mass, which is usually sung in our parish. All are able to sing that.” Upon this, one of them immediately intoned the Credo, as it is usually done by the priest at High Mass, when all instantly joined in, and thus entered the city of Lyons, chanting aloud their Profession of Faith, to the very great admiration of many of its pious inhabitants.
—We are glad to see that the German System of Penmanship, on the analytic method, lately gotten up by the Professor of Penmanship in the Commercial Department at NotreDame and published by Pusiet, New York and Cincinnati, has obtained an acknowledgement of superior merit from high sources and from various quarters. We ourselves examined various excellent systems of penmanship before noticing this one on its first appearance, for, truth to say, it being a home production we feared the charge of egotism in case we seemed to go beyond its actual merits. But what we said then we can in the main reiterate now, that it has been found worthy'of commendation by more competent judges than we pretend to be. At our request the author of the system has shown us translations of some of the testimonial letters received since last fall, when it first appeared, from which we append the following extracts. Mr. Chas. A. Goetze, Professor of Penmanship at the Mt. Vernon Military Academy and at the Palmer House, Chicago, says of it:	. The system introduced
by the Professor (at Notre Dame) is one peculiarly his own, and is certainly the finest and most complete of any now in existence in German.” Very Rev. C. Wapelhorst, the learned and amiable Rector of the Seminary of St. Francis de Sales, Milwaukee, says: “Having had your ‘ Systematische Anleitung zum Schonschreiben ’ examined by persons competent to judge, their examination results in the decision that your system and head-lines are especially distinguished among all works of the kind, particularly for well-regulated grading, elegance and purity of the writing, combined with an agreeable simplicity, etc. If your instructions and system of analyzing the letters are followed, a happy result will be obtained.” The Mother Superior of the School Sisters of Notre Dame writes: “ We have examined your course of Penmanship and are pleased to say that we can cheerfully recommend it for school purposes. We ourselves intend to introduce it in course of time.” Mr. P. M. Bach, teacher of the German language in the First District School, Milwaukee, speaks of it in the following terms: “ I have examined your series of German Copy-Books and I do not hesitate to say that they are the best I have yet seen.” Dr. Joerger, in the- Katholische Volkszeitung, says: “It has been prepared carefully and intelligently,” and he adds that he believes all who have to do with school matters will be thankful to him for calling attention to it. The Katholisches Wochenblatt says: “We recommend these Copy-Books, published by Pustet, to all who have the progress of our parochial schools at heart.” And the Milwaukee Seebote: “ ... On account of its ease and comprehensibility it deserves the greatest circulation in our educational institutions,” etc.
—On Tuesday evening last a grand banquet was tendered the members of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club by Prof. J. F. Edwards. The banquet was given in Washington Hall, where the three large tables were well filled. Among those present were Very Rev. President Corby, Rev. Fathers T. E. Walsh, C. Kelly, J. A. Zahm, E. Lilly, J. Fr&re, Mr. Stoffel, Bros. Theodore, John, Timothy, Leander, Paul, Alban, Celestine, Prof. Gregori, and others. Music was furnished by the Senior Orchestra. The banquet is spoken of as one of the best ever given here, as maybe seen by the following menu: Soup—Vermicelli, oyster. Fish.—Trout a la Hayonaise, oysters, escalloped, Acciuge col limone. Cold entrees.—Lombardy ham, beef tongue. Warm entrees.—Turkey, cranberry sauce, chicken, fricasee, with green peas; veal cutlets, breaded, with potatoes a la Fran^aise. Side dishes.—Chicken salad, chow-chow, mixed pickles, water-cresses, succotash, cipolette fresche. Pastry.—Sponge-cake, with floating island; white cake, fruit-cake, apple-pie, raspberry-pie, mince-pie, vanilla
patties. Dessert.—Florida oranges, apples, canned peaches, canned pineapples, raisins, almonds, filberts, mixed candies, vanilla cream, coffee, hot lemonade, tea. The hall was elegantly festooned with evergreens, vines and the flags of all nations, and the atmosphere was redolent with fragrance of choice fiowers. The tables, decorated with bouquets of flowers, were arranged in the form of a square surrounding a huge pyramid of rare plants intermixed with fancy dishes of oranges, apples, cakes, candies, nuts and raisins. At each corner of the square stood circular side-tables laden with all the delicacies of the season, tastefully displayed. The stage of the hall was draped with American flags. In the centre stood a bust of Columbus, the patron of the Club, encircled with blooming exotics. Above the bust was a lifelike portrait of the founder of the Association, the well-beloved Rev. Father Lemonnier. During the supper the Seniors’ Orchestra discoursed selections from “Fra Diavolo,” “La Dame Blanche,” “Bohemian Girl,” and “ William Tell.” These young gentlemen, by the way, form one of the most popular organizations of the institution, and for the excellent music furnished cn this occasion they deserve the thanks of all who were present.
Very Rev. President Corby presided during the entertainment. After supper Mr. Hagan proposed the following toasts:
Notre Dams and her Venerable Founder : Like a generous twig set in a fertile soil by the careful hand of the gardener, this stem of the great tree of life has been planted in the free soil of the West by the hand of its once youthful but now reverend founder; and under his care it has grown to the noble proportions which we observe and in which we rejoice. May the noble tree continue to flourish, and may the tireless and blessed hand which planted its feeble stem be soon in our midst and raised in benediction over our heads.
Responded to by Rev. Father Walsh.
The President of the University: The satisfaction which he must feel at the prosperity of Notre Dame under his care during this year, is enjoyed by us all in common with him, and our prayer to the end shall be that he may continue to rule where his rule has been so prosperous.
Responded to by John G. Ewing.
The Founder of Oub Club : Hisjmemory is as^green in our hearts to-day as if it were but yesterday that witnessed our organization, or but yesterday that we followed him silently and sorrowfully to the tomb. May he look down with smiling approval upon our innocent festivities this evening, and may our Club and all its members ever prove worthy children of the saintly Father Lemonnier.
The last toast was received standing. Father Corby in a neat little speech expressed himself as more than pleased with the orderly and elegant manner in which the festivities of the evening had been conducted. He thanked the members of the Club for the beautiful sentiments expressed in the toast and response given in his honor. Grace was then said, after which the Club repaired to the lower floor of the hall, where they enjoyed themselves in dancing until notified that it was time to retire. Before parting, three hearty cheers were given Prof. Edwards, and all agreed in saying that the banquet was one of the most enjoyable and recherche affairs they had ever attended.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, M. W. Bannon, T. Barrett, J. E. Cooney, A. B. Cougar, W. L. Dechant, E. C. Davenport, E. J. Dempsey, P. J. Dougherty, A. C. Dorion, C. K. De Vries, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, W. C. Farrar, J. Garrett, P. Horn, A. J. Hertzog, J. J. Houck, M. Hogan, J. 8. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, A. W. Johnson, J. P Kinney, F. Keller, Jas. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, C. F. Mueller, H. Maguire, E. Maley, O. 8. Mitchell, C. E. Marentette, J. P. McHugh, M. J. McCue, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, E. J. McMahon, C. Nodler, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, R. Price, J. J. Qninn, J. P. Quinn, E. W. Robinson, J. Rothert, J. Rabbitt, A. K. Schmidt, T. 8. Summers, J. J. Shugrue, 8. T. Spalding, J. 8. Smith, J. 8. Sheridan, F. Williams, E. A. Walters, F. J. Walter.
556
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, F. W. Bloom, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, A. J. Buerger, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Bushey, H. E. Canoil, T.F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, C. E. Cavanagh, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, J. S. Cassard, G. H. Donnelly, R. French, L. H. Garceau, J. W. Guthrie, J. S. Healey, J. F. Herrick, A. H. Hatt, J. L. Halle, J. M. Byrne, G. L. It-tenbach, J. D. McNeills, C. A. McKinnon, R. P. Mayer, J. T. Matthews, T. E. Nelson, P. P. Nelson, H. J. Newmark, F. T. Pleins, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, J. M. Scanlan, J. K. Schobey, G. E. Sugg, W. Stang, C. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, E. S. Walter.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Coolbaugh, G. Lambin, W. McDevitt, R. Costello, J. Courtney, Jos. Courtney, N. Nelson, W. O. Farrelly, J. Seeger, C. Crowe, J. Boose, W. Reinhardt, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Herzog, E. Herzog, W. Ccghlin, J. Devine, H. Snee, S. Bushey, C. Long, P. Fitzgerald, T. O’Neill, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, F. Farrelly, E. Esmer, L. Young, F. Gaffney, J. Crowe, C. Welty, M. Devine.
Note.—Owing to the partial suspension of the classes during Holy Week the monthly competitions in the Preparatory Course were postponed one week. The List of Excellence and Class Honors will consequently not appear till our next issue.

—The Misses Zoe Papin, Elizabeth Walsh, Adella Gordon, Alice Morgan and Mary McGrath procured a quantity of the most exquisite hot-house flowers to be presented as an Easter offering in thanksgiving for the recovery- of a beloved teacher, who, for the first time in seven long months, was able to assist at the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass on Easter Sunday. Those mute though eloquent proclaim-ers of youthful gratitude and affection, the charming flowers, preached their own sweet sermons on the high altar, and we have no doubt but that they prayed their touching prayers, interpreting those of the gentle -donors. Of one thing we are sure: they taught a beautiful lesson to all —that is to say, the acknowledgment to God of the benefits received at His hands.
—During Holy Week the decorations of the Chapel were in admirable keeping with the spirit of the Church and well calculated to inspire deep devotion in the hearts of the assembled worshippers. The Repository on Holy Thursday, the loadstone attracting all hearts, was one blaze of light Over three hundred white and red lamps were burning day and night around the Blessed Sacrament, where were constantly kneeling the devout adorers, thanking God for the ineffable Mystery commemorated on that day. The most minute details of preparation were instinct with profound faith and loving devotion. In the same accordance with the spirit of the Church, the heavy black drapings of Good Friday and the representation of the Holy Sepulchre with the Cross elevated far above it, were deeply impressive; likewise on Easter Sunday the brilliant decorations were a fit interpretation of the glorious spirit of the season. Rich exotics blossomed on the main altar, while those of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart and of St. Joseph were complete masses of light and flowers. Beautiful crosses of white and red lights, formed by minute lamps, were thrown into bold relief by compact mats of bright blossoms. The effect was very fine. Lovely banners, with religious devices stamped upon them, were suspended in every direction, imparting a very appropriate aspect of pious joy, reminding the beholder of that triumph which dawned upon the earth when the chains of sin and death were riven by our Lord in His glorious Resurrection from the tomb.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Misses Genevieve Cooney, Bay Reynolds, Pauline Gaynor, Elizabeth O’Neill, Amelia Harris, Mary O’Conner, Anastasia Henneberry, Minerva Spier.
1st Senior Class—Misses Cecilia Boyce, Hope Russell, Emma Lange, Ida Fisk, Mary Ewing.
2d Senior Class—Misses Mary McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Mary Way, Eleanore Keenan, Sallie Hambleton, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Anna Woodin, Mary Luce, Blanche Thomson, Charline Davis, Elizabeth Keena, Ellen King, Anna Maloney, Mary Casey, Mary Birch, Catharine Barrett.
3d Senior Class—Misses Emma Shaw, Florence Cregier, Mary Brown, Alice Farrell, Frances Kingfield, Mary Sullivan, Genevieve Winston, Ellen Galen, Lola Otto, Catharine Hackett, Agnes Brown, Angela Ewing, Mary Winston, Annie Cavenor, Caroline Ortmayer, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Wagoner, Elizabeth Schwass, Leota Buck, Adella Gordon, Marie Plattenburg, Alice Morgan, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Mulligan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses Anna McGrath, Adelie Geiser, Margaret Hayes, Lucie Chilton, Ellen Mulligan, Mary Cleary, Henrietta Hearsey.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Ellen Thomas, Mary White, Mary Mullen, Julia Kingsbury, Alice Barnes, Imogene Richardson, Julia Barnes, Ellen Kelly, Mary Lambin, Ollie Williams, Matilda Whiteside.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Linda Fox, Mary Hake, Laura French, Charlotte Van Namee, Caroline Gall, Agnes McKinnis, Louise Wood, Ellen Hackett, Frances Sunderland.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Mary Cox.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Miss Genevieve Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Maria Plattenburg, Mary Luce.
ERENCH CLASSES.
1st Class—Misses Mary McGrath, Eleanore Keenan, Hope Russell, Clara Silverthorn, Bridget Wilson.
2d Div.—Misses Julia Burgert, Anna McGrath, Ellen Galen, Adelaide Geiser.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Caroline Ortmayer.
2d Div.—Misses Sophia Rheinboldt, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Ludwig.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth O’Neill, Anastasia Henneberry, Annie Reising, Catharine Barrett, Florence Cregier, Caroline Gall.
3d Class—Misses Sallie Hambleton, Mary Way, Cecilia Boyce, Mary Lambin, Ellen King.
2d Div.—Misses Minerva Loeber, Alice Farrell, Blanche Parrott, Imogene Richardson, Charlotte VanNamee.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN MUSIC.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Drv.—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Delia Cavenor.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Annie Reising, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Genevieve Winston, Agnes Brown.	.
2d Drv.—Misses Sophia Rheinboldt, Adelaide Geiser, Imogene Richardson.	■
4th Class—Misses Anna Woodin, Mary Winston, Clara Silverthorn, Julia Burgert, Alice Farrell, Anna Cavenor.
5th Class—Misses Matilda Whiteside, Annie McGrath, Mary White, Mary McGrath, Marcia Peak, Henrietta Hersey, Eleanore Keenan, Mary Mulligan, Elizabeth Schwass.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Claes—Misses Bay Reynolds, Emma Lange, Elizabeth Kirchner, Pauline Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses Delia Cavenor, Julia Burgert, Marie Plattenburg, Leota Buck, Sallie Hambleton, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell.
4th Class—Misses Lola Otto, Laura French, Ellena Thomas, Julia Butts, Ellen Mulligan.
5th Class—Misses Mary Way, Caroline Ortmayer, Hope Russell, Anna Reising, Lucie Chilton, Catharine Riordan, Elizabeth Schwass, Florence Cregier, Minerva Loeber.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses Emma Lange, Bay Reynolds, Pauline Gaynor, Sarah Moran, Mary O’Conner, Minerva Spier, Charline Davis.
4th Class—Miss Matilda Whiteside. -
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Bay Reynolds, Pauline Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses Charline Davis, Elizabeth Kirchner, Delia Cavenor.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL* NEEDLE-WORK.
1st Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Mary Usselman, Caroline Ortmayer, Mary Winston, Genevieve Winston, Elizabeth Schwass, Bridget Wilson, Mary Luce, Lola Otto, Agnes Brown, Minerva Spier, Mary Ewing.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	557
2d Div.—Misses Alice Farrell, Emma Shaw, Julia Burgert, Adella Gordon, Marie Plattenburg, Florence Cregier, Martha Wagoner, Blanche Parrott, Sophia Rheinholdt, Ollie Williams, Mary White, Mary Hake, Ellen a Thomas, Catharine Barrett, Imogene Richardson, Eleanore Keenan, Elizabeth Keena, Ida Fisk, Thecla Pleins.
3d Class—Miss Julia Butts.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRESS-MAKING AND PLAIN SEWING.
Misses Mary Sullivan, Cecilia Boyce, Blanche Thomson, Mary Ewing, Elizabeth Schwass, Elizabeth Keena, Ollie Williams.
GENERAL SEWING CLASS.
Misses Anastasia Henneberry, Minerva Spier, Anna Reising, Mary Ewing, Blanche Parrott, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary White, Louise Neu.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Genevieve Cooney, Amelia Harris, Anastasia Henneberry, Elizabeth O’Neill, Minerva Spier, Mary O’Conner, Pauline Gaynor, Anna Reising, Bay Reynolds, Hope Russell, Mary Ewing, Sarah Moran, Cecilia Boyce, Bridget Wilson, Mary McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Blanche Thomson, Mary Way, Eleanore Keenan, Mollie Casey, Charline Davis, Mary Birch, Elizabeth Kirchner, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Catharine Barrett, Ellen King, Zod Papin, Anna Maloney, Catharine Riordan, Emma Shaw, Mary Halligan, Lola Otto, Mary Brown, Leota Buck, Mary Wagoner, Thecla Pleins, Marie Plattenburg, Catharine Hackett, Agnes Brown, Elizabeth Walsh, Julia Burgert, Catharine Lloyd, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Sullivan, Ellen Galen, Alice Farrell, Mary and Genevieve Winston, Deadie and and Annie Cavenor, Caroline Ortmayer, Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Usselman, Margaret Hayes, Mary Cleary, Blanche Parrott. Minerva Loeber, Henrietta Hersey, Ellen Wright, Emelie Miller, Ellena Thomas, Julia Barnes, Mary White, Mary Mullen, Ellen Kelly, Alice Barnes, Matilda Whiteside, Ollie Williams.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Frances Kingfield, Lucie Chilton, Annie McGrath, Adelaide Geiser, Ellen Mulligan, Mary Lambin, Louise Wood, Ellen Hackett, Linda Fox, Mary McFadden, Mary Hake, Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Caroline Gall, Julia Butts, Lucille McCrellis, Alice King, Lillie Swaggart, Eva Swaggart, Margaret Ivers, 100 par excellence. Miss Laura French.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into t he regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
[53 CLARK ST., obposHb Siennas House,
Chicago, Illinois.
Prospectus of the 9th Volume, 1878-9.
THE ALDINE,
The Art Journal of America.
SOLD ONLY TO SUBSCRIBERS.
COMPLETE IN 24 PARTS, AT 50 CENTS EACH.
ISSUED MONTHLY.
It is the purpose of the publishers to persevere in their efforts to keep The Aldine, as an exponent of Art work, free from competition, and to spare neither thought nor expense to rH11 further beautify and improve the broad pages of the work.
While urging the necessity of cultivating a taste for the beautiful in Nature and Art, The Aldine has not been unminful of the force of example and Illustration, therefore it has been a constant study to show, in the pages of the work itself, that improvement so certainly consequent upon sincere devotion to such subjects. As in the past, so in the future, The Aldine will continue to be an example of the progressive and refining influences of connection and association with the beautiful and true.
The volume now in preparation, while it will not suddently depart from the general course of its predecessors, will yet present many modifications and improvements, the result of study and experience in fitting The Aldine to worthily maintain its position as “The Art Journal of America.”
In the more mechanical department of the arrangement or make up, changes, in themselves slight, will largely enhance -the general beauty of the pages, wfiich had already won admiration so hearty and universal.
Editorially, The Aldine will deal broadly and fairly with Art in general and American Art in particular. Carefully prepared papers will keep the reader well informed on all Art topics of the important Art centres of this country and Europe. The important exhibitions will receive full and timely notice; and artists whose achievements have won for them the right, shall be introduced and given a proper personality by sketches biographical and critical. It will be the purpose of the Editor to earn for the Critical and Literary Department of The Aldine' a recognition in every way worthy of its established and admit-ted pre-eminence in Art illustration.
The Art Department of this volume will be richer in representations of American natural scenery than any of its predecessors. To aid a popular decision on the claims of rival localities to the title, “ The Switzerland of America,” our artists are exploring the wonders of those regions of our country which have more recently been brought into notice. The Yo Semite and the Yellowstone, the ,'Sierra and the Rockies shall be brought home to the patrons of The Aldine—but not to the exclusion or neglect of our glorious old Alleghanies and their more familiar surroundings.
Experience, and capital largely increased by the liberal patronage of an appreciative public, has made possible the introduction of greater system and plan in selecting the Art exhibits, so as to better cover all desirable ground, enabling an harmonious and judicious combination and progression, so to speak, through the wide world of Art. Examples by figure, animal and landscape painters of every school—ancient and modern— American or foreign, will appear with all the old refreshing variety, but with an added advantage of more deliberate arrangement and defined purpose, to instruct and inform as well as to delight.
The publishers have entire confidence that the public will continue the evidence of their appreciation of these efforts to maintain an Art publication that shall be characteristic and worthy of the progress and liberal tastes of Americans, and they anticipate with pleasure the opportunity for a practical verdict on their past achievements winch the commencement of a new volume affords.
PLAN OF PUBLICATION.
The Aldine volumes will, in future, be completed in 24 parts, at 50 cents each, published monthly and sold only to subscribers for the complete volume. Subscribers will pay on delivery for the parts actually received, and no canvasser or deliverer is authorized to vary these terms in any way or to make any representations on the faith of the publishers outside of the regular prospectus.
The Aldine will not be sold by book or news-dealers generally, and in all places where no agent is appointed, persons desiring to subscribe may do so by direct application to the publishers.
Any person desiring to act as the agent for any particular
-
558
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
locality should apply promptly, giving full particulars as to business, references, and territory desired. Liberal arrangements will be made with the best parties.
THE ALDINE PUBLISHING COMPANY,
JAMES SUTTON, President,
18 Vesey St., New York.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling pnblic to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m
Peru accommodation................. 5 00 p.m. ' 9 45 a.m
Night Express......................10 00 p.m. 6 30 a.m
A M. SMITH,	A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mall.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 P.M.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rneh ester.			12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,....				3.10 A.M.	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,..............		4.46 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
■WQnRfipld 			7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline		.... Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,					9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,					10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,				1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Pl v month. 				3.45 “	246 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago, .1			7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	 Plvmnnth			9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
		2.46 am.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Pt- Wayne,				6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	-
T.ima,						8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest. 			10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline			11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “	
					
Crestline			12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,					12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,				2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,				4.05 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester.					6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsbuigti,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. R. MYERS, G. P. & T. A
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26,1877.
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis		4.35 P. M	12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ '	7.25 A. M.
“ Kokomo		7.10 “		9.52 “
Ar. Peru		8.10 “	3.50 “	10.47 “
Lv. Peru		8.25 P. M.		11.10 A. M.
“ Plymouth		10.25 “		1.14 P. M.
“ LaPorte		11.55 “		2.45 “
“ Michigan City		12.40 A. M.		3.30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W., Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis....	5.30 P. M.	4.10 A. M.	9.10 A. M. .
“ Kokomo		2.55 “	1.50 “	6.33	“
Ar. Peru		1.50- “	12.38 “	5.37	“
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. M. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. M.	12.33 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 8.50 “ 8.05 “	
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
A NE^ SYSTEM OF German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FB. PUSTET,
52 Barclay street, KEV YORK, am 204 Vine street, CINCINNATI.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.	-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, TLTZDTA-ZNAA-
Pounded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges. '
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
559
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m„ Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, lam.
7 16 pm. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 13 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 240 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago, 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 9 35 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
A. CATHOLIC JOrrmSTA-T, quoted to the ^onor of the llwtl (16 pp. Imperial 8vo.) Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLY FATHER PIUS IX, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO HU,
And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned.
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TEBMS :
One Year.........................................$ 2 50
Five Years.......................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)....20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
SHICKEY,
proprietor of the
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mmy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
£• S xULVILa x •
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo", West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.	.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-	'
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via •
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J.C.McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
C.	& N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
arc run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Hr,Uo.
TYPE FOUNDERS,
CHICAGO,
Have the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from best quality of oetaL Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse & Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.
560
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attornevs at Law.
BBOWN & HABVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio. -
SPEER at MITCHELE [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
TBEOMAS U. CLIFFOBD, [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Pulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAWWIWG «fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of TH, Attorneys at Law, Boom 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, DI.
JOHN F- McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette,.Ind.
DODGE at DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
OBVIELE T. CIIANEDETCFjAIIV (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, S3 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MeBRIDE at MIEEABD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
U/1LLIA M J. CL ABKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus, O.
JAMES A.. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	•Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 28 “ 10 45 “ 12 35 p.m 3 45 “ 6 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 40 p.m 4 05 “ « 30 “	3 45 p.m 6 20 “ 8 14 “ 10 00 “ 5 20 a.m	5 15 p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m 11 15 “ 12 85 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 00 “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 8 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	4 00 a.m 6 10 “ 7 50 “ 10 30 “	9 50 p.m 12 45 a.u 2 53 “ 4 24 « 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 2 25 a m 12 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and Soutli Send Division.
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 852 ••	638 *• Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “ • 4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaHy. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henby C. Wentwobth,	H. B. Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, DI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
rpHE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN.pr.b’ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D.	A. Clabke, of ’70.
THE A.VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, lud., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk. fTVHE BON D HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Bl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.	
TUD w ARD I*.' FL Y NN, Plain and Fancy Book-bind-Ju er,Kalamazoo,Mich.	
Visiting Cards.	
25	CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie, ” Mishawaka, Ind.
ClK CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic £•3	for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before cop y was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the sped es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, araness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons,'and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and m most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Dlustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Numbeb of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments	 Students’ size, larger	 Amateur’s size. 214 in. x 114...	$ 50 1 50	$1 3	$1 50 6	$ 1 5 10	$ 2 10 25	$ 8 25 50
High Schoo] or Acad, size,2^x3 *4 in.shelf specimens College size, 3*4x6 in., shelf specimens					25 500|	50 100	100 3 CO
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. F00TB, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York,