Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 7, 1877.
Number 31.
Night Scene. , • J
---------- ~Tlz
This night hath glorified the boundldss vast O’er which the forming hand of God hath passed; Behold the heavens spreading as a page, And the dear brown earth grown pure in mellow age!
Bright worlds and orbs of light are rolling high, Where untold visions bless the raptured eye; The moon-lit earth in seas of beauty flows, And all that comes from God before me glows.
Rare beauty bathed in love, thou blessdd even, Moving in silent grandeur up to heaven, How glad my soul would swell thy wordless hymn, Rising so pure, like love of Seraphim!
Shall wealth’s dull glare outglow that saintly light, Or mar the richness of this brilliant night;
And poor pale tints of glory cheat the heart While fields like these such peerless hues impart ?
And shall I sigh for pleasure’s flash and state, While heaven daily opes her pearly gate, . And spreads her nightly treasures round me thus, Where joy and grace to please seem emulous ?
Shall I grow hardened up the steep of fame, And lose the soul’s fine texture for a name,— That men may gape and wonder when I’m gone, Or gaze with reverence on a marble stone !
Ah, no ! not mine that weary flash and gold, That strife^for place till all my days are old ; Happier, brighter hopes illume my breast Than power-proud toil through life and grave-proud rest.
One rapt communion with the beautiful, The heaven of the mind, is worth the dull, Unnumbered joys of all this under world, Where fame’s and fashion’s child is tossed and whirled.
One truth new-born to raise a brother higher, One word of better cheer, one blest desire To teach the thoughtless prince his noble birth,— Ah, these shall give me fame beyond the earth.
One hour of good shall give more bliss in heaven Than wealth or wars or crowns have ever given And innocence shall be more lovely there Than ever shone the fairest of the fair.
I will be true to my own spirit’s need And treasure all my gifts as God’s fair’seed, Implanted in my soul to blossom forth And bear a fruitage of immortal worth |
Irish Ballads.
Whatever is useful and good in itself for conforming the actions of men to the moral law should sometimes at least be deemed worthy of special consideration. We not un-frequently hear persons say that such and such a thing, such and such a subject is of no importance whatsoever, and that time should not be lost in studying or reading matter pertaining to what they are pleased to call contrarium boni. Now it is evident that an ingenious mind might be at a loss to know what kind of a being that may be; but there are some persons who find no difficulty in seeing or perceiving what it is, and will give their advice and decision accordingly. Every subject is of importance, is good in itself, and can only be bad in as much' as it is improperly discussed or developed by him who strives to expatiate upon it when following his own blind and partial ideas, asserting more than he clearly perceives, thinking he sees when in reality he does not see, and then, as becoming a man of a philosophical turn of mind, boldly making his assertions accordingly. How much more important, then, is that which has an elevating and moral tendency, and to which may be attributed in a certain sense not only a nation’s prosperity but also her honor and reputation in an eminent degree, and which most therefore command whatever attention we can give it, in order to show clearly its extent, its real intrinsic utility and worth. Hence a great deal has been said on our present subject, but concerning a good thing too much cannot be said, nor can a good thing be repeated too often.
Speaking in general, the ballads and songs of Ireland are of a moral nature, but there maybe a few found among them which have crept in not in the usual way but in an unusual way. They are for the most part learned from a certain class of persons that go around with what are called “ shows,” but whether they themselves are the real shows or not is quite difficult to determine. And of course in order to create a sensation they must have something new,—and knowing that the people are lovers of song, they come to the conclusion that one of the best means to entice youth is to sing something in the shape of a song, the composition of which is as rude as the rest of their performances, which chiefly consist in beating an old drum or teaching a canary bird to handle a wheelbarrow. Such songs as those cannot be called Irish; they are imported, and consequently do not come under the head of Irish bal-ads.	<
It has been asserted that only in a nation which enjoys freedom, prosperity and its attendants, can the man of poesy love to dwell,—and that there alone, within her tranquil shades, can genius flourish from thorough cultivation; for where freedom isnot, prosperity cannot reign; and where
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
482
prosperity cannot reign, there is the height of misery and misfortune. Hence the divine flame of poetry soon loses its bright light, and by-and-by dies away altogether; all hope, too, vanishes from the human breast; sighs and sorrows commence, which are the only outlet of the feelings and sentiments of the people. This is only true in part, for history elearly shows that even in Ireland’s darkest days, when gloom reigned supreme, the flame of poetry has never been totally extinguished. And as regards the lyrical species, the effect has been immaterial. For the more they were oppressed, the more they suffered at the hand of their oppressors, the more they had to bend beneath the yoke of the Saxon tyrant, the more did the lyric muse give vent in sad and mournful strains to their heart’s longings, their feelings and passions. The saying, “ Give me the writing of the ballads of a country and I do not care who makes the laws,” once uttered by a writer and scholar of high standing, is as forcible as it is true. Because the ballads of a country must be and are the natural and spontaneous expression of the thoughts of the mind, the feelings and sentiments, the outpouring of the soul made manifest in verse, which upon circulation throws its broad influence on the minds of a people, who in turn adopt them as their own and find them i soothing balm, agreeable to their internal feelings, causing them to send forth in mournful patriotic, and loving strainsan influential and moving power, a power that is felt all over the land, carrying in its sway the richest and fairest of nature’s gifts, the nobler part of man. That this influence is felt, and that the power of ballad poetry is great and cannot be gainsaid, nor has it ever been, by any right-thinking and intelligent man, cannot be gainsaid. It is unnecessary, therefore to enter into details in order to show what is generally accepted and corroborated.
Ballad poetry, forming in itself, as it does, a distinct element, differs from all other kinds of poetical composition and depends mainly on its subject matter, its mode of expression, dealing with facts, sights, etc., as they really are, expressing not only the author’s sentiments but also those of the people at large, dwelling emphatically on the real cause of the sensation, so that the effect made on the mind of the hearer may be in proportion; every word must have its meaning as well as its full articulate sound, force and expression according to the nature and requirement of the piece.
Although these are to some extent found the marks that characterize the ballad poetry of every country, we can find however some of the poems in this department verging not only on poetry of the higher order but also surpassing it as far as sensational feeling, description, vigor and force of expression are concerned. For the sake of order we will divide the ballads into five classes: patriotic, lamentations, love-songs, narrative, and eulogies. The patriotic song is an all-inspiring flame: it stirs up the minds of men, urges them on to acts of bravery and valor, and fills their soul with that manliness, heroism and courage that immortalized so many great and noble patriots who fought and bled for freedom’s cause. A patriotic air is also a powerful instinctive on the battle-field when bayonets clash or the command for a charge is about to be given. This was well understood and put in practice by the ancient Irish, as the bards were always required to be pressent on the field of battle in order that by their patriotic songs they might excite the warriors on to deeds of valor. The love-songs so pleasingly and beautifully rendered by the innocent and fair daughters of Erin, either while work
ing at the needle, or at early morning when nature has on her richest dress, are most charming to the ear and delightful to the heart; while at the same time the skylark sings her morning song, and the warbling of the thrush and blackbird perched on the top of the tallest tree or on the highest bramble of the thick hedge, go far in beautifying the scene and effecting one of the most grand and enjoyable of natural phenomena. Again at eventide, when the great king of day is about to sink in the western wave, the maiden is on the hillside or in the vale, and as the “ white milk flows,” her voice, vieing as it were with the gentle and harmonius songs of the birds of the gentle beak, is re-echoed from the ivied wall and from the rocks whose overhanging clefts have stood the wreck of ages and have witnessed Ire lands triumph’s and sorrows.
The songs of a lamentative nature have a wonderful effect upon the minds of the people. When it happens that some young man has suffered capital punishment it is immediately heralded over the whole length and breadth of the country in perhaps rude but pathetic verse, giving a broad statement of his last words, either when standing on the trap or when about to embrace for the last time those of his kinsfolk and friends who might have had the courage to be present. It gives also the whole history of his birth, education, etc., begging God to deal favorably with his soul and also asking the prayers of the faithful to be offered to God in his behalf. The words of the song express the whole affair so forcibly that the heart of many a poor parent melts to tears when she hears that an only son, the hope and consolation of his aged parents, ended his days on the scaffold. But this is not all: even the youth of both sexes feel the sting; the sister thanks God that her brother has been preserved from such a miserable end; the brother, too, with grateful heart offers up a fervent prayer to Heaven, beseeching the Divine protection, so that he may not be the cause of any grief or trouble to himself or his family, especially his dear and beloved parents in their old age. Such then is the influence of the lamentative ballad. Every one, both young and old, is so much affected that day after day and night after night the tragic affair is discussed till finally it gives place to some other new and striking fact.
The narrative ballads and songs have reference to all’ events of an interesting nature, taking place as they may in all parts of the country from the Irish Sea to the Atlantic and from the Giant’s Causeway to the Lakes of Killarney, as well as in all parts of the known world. Some record the glorious battles fought and won by the sons of Erin, or in which they had taken a principal part, as for example the battles of Sabastopol, Clontarf and Waterloo, where, as O’Connell says :
“Duke Wellington would look blue If Paddy had not been there too.”
Others record in their own way something of inferior importance, but at the same time not so on account of their style of composition, their correct numbers or anything of this kind, to which sometimes the whole importance is attached, but simply on account of the fact in itself, viewed from a certain standpoint and considered in accordance to its real intrinsic merit. It is a singular fact, too, that whatever may be recorded in this manner is thoroughly engraved on the hearts and minds of the people, and were they left to themselves without anything else to lead to the true knowledge of events that might transpire in their own country, as well as those that might take place far away be-
483
k
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
yond the seas, they would in all sincerity be not ignorant of them, and would very probably have a truer idea, with very few exceptions however, concerning them than by studying and restudying the same in a book of history, especially were it written under the auspices of the National Board of Education.
The eulogies are for the most part of an extravagant nature, and this we say of them not because it is something f peculiar to them alone, but because the fault is too general among almost all nations and peoples, and practised to too great an extent even by those that should, according to all appearances, know better. It is a serious fault, and one that is very hard to guard against. Men are too apt to break the bounds of the prescribed laws, and this aptitude comes from the fact that they want to differ, even against their natural inclination, as the love of truth is in the very constitution of all; they deviate from that which holds itself . before them as the truth, in order to say or do something for or against it; they pass over everything in silence that *	they do not wish to relate. Their ideas are communicated
and brought forth not any more as the objects were perceived, or as they saw whatever they treated through the light of reason, but clothed in a new dress either extra fine or extra ridiculous, just as it may suit their purpose. Here then is where so many make their mistake, if we can call it a mistake; they think that they have nothing to do but write either preposterously, absurdly, or in some such manner, and that of course everyone is bound either from sheer ignorance or prejudice to receive it as something reasonable and truthful, something profound, and as regards argu-► ment, rhetoric, and above all the clear and precise manner in which it is written, there can be nothing felt wanting to convince the mind of the reader that it was written not for what it was but for what it was not. We can safely say then that the ballads and songs of Ireland form no exception to the almost general rule; they are just what we see all over, but something better. And again, if we look into them rightly and understand well their meaning we will perhaps not speak so harshly, of them. There is something connected with them that cannot be always perfectly understood by those who are not aware or who do not know their end, their aim and their scope, or the good intentions with which they were written. When these things are thoroughly known, and when we know moreover the dispositions and manners of the people, we may venture to pass some judgment upon them; and even then we should be careful, for experience teaches that our judgments are not always in conformity to our ideas, pure or empirical. Hence we must abstain from asserting anything that might not be altogether correct. We have said that they are a little extravagant, that is when viewed in a certain light and from a certain position, but that is all; there are two sides to these as well as to all other things, f and we pronounce our judgment according to the side from which we took our view. But it does not at all affect their qualities; those qualities are real, not imaginary, nor can they be affected by something that is perhaps only imaginary. They shine forth in a clear light, gleaming with heavenly dew, sparkling in the sunshine and emitting a ,	fragrant scent far beyond their own narrow limits; and that
scent reaches to the utmost parts of the earth; hence we may understand their circulation. In what part of the earth is not the “ Groves of Blarney,” whistled and sung? Where on the face of the globe are not such songs and ballads as “Isle of Beauty, fare thee well,” “The Bells of
Shandon,” “ Dublin Bay,” “ Beautiful Erin,” “ The Vale of Love,” and others too numerous to mention, known? If the ones mentioned here be not known to the reader it is certain that he must be acquainted with others of the same kind. It is remarkable that there is scarcely a place in all Ireland that has not been celebrated by some particular song, ditty or rhyme. This has especially taken place before the people were compelled to learn a strange language by being robbed of their own. But even since they have continued to write, but in a manner far different, chiefly on account of not being sufficiently acquainted with the new and imported tongue, for which they never had, and perhaps never will have, anything like an extraordinary taste, till at present there is scarcely a town or village in the whole land that cannot boast of its own particular narrative or sentimental song. These in themselves are very amusing ; some paint in their own way the misfortunes and sorrows that may have occurred; others the simpler graces of a peasant girl, or in praise of some daring youth that had won the affection of one not perhaps his equal in society and had consequently to suffer sorely for it. Songs like these are very numerous, indeed so much so that about thirty or forty years ago the young folks learned so many of them that they did not know how many they were able to sing, or word, as the case might be, as their store could never run out. But times have changed, and the Irish youth have not the same facility for learning ballads or songs; neither are they so much taken up with them, for reasons not altogether obvious. However, no matter in what part of the country we may happen to be, we will hear these songs sung and airs whistled in a seemingly unconscious manner. It is as amusing as it is highly edifying to witness the esteem and respect the subjects of such songs are held in. You may ask, if you wish, concerning the event, and you are told the whole story in a very comparative short space of time and in as few words as possible, so plainly and offhandedly that you would wish such a narration had lasted for a considerable longer time. And so it is; Ireland is Ireland, the green, the Emerald Isle, and neither oppression nor anything of the kind can change its inhabitants; they are themselves and no others; if they have their bad qualities they have also their good ones; and whatever may be said against them there is at least one thing that cannot be said, and that is that they never forsook their God for their king, and that is their undying and immortal fame, their renown, their honor, their noblest attribute that will stand the test of ages, whole, firm and unshaken; and, when generations will have passed away, will still remain the same, knowing no decay. From their ballads and songs we can learn much which is, as we have already intimated, the expression of the sincere and serious thoughts of the mind, the sentiments; in a word, the mirror in which are reflected many of their qualities such as they really are. R.
—Sir Robert Peel is said to have expressed his high appreciation of O’Connell’s parliamentary abilities. While the Reform Bill was under discussion, the speeches of its friends and foes were one day canvassed at Lady Beauchamp’s. On O’Connell’s name being mentioned, some critic fastidiously said, “Oh, a broguing Irish fellow! who would listen to him? I always walk out of the House when he opens his lips.” “ Come, Peel,” said Lord Westmoreland, “let me hear your opinion.” “My opinion candidly is,” replied Sir Robert, “ that if I wanted an efficient and eloquent advocate, I would readily give up all the other orators of whom we have been talking, provided I had with me this same ‘ broguing Irish fellow.’ ”
484
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Groundhoggery. , • —
May thy shadow never be less.—Persian Salutation.
Boot, hog, or die!—Negro Minstrelsy : Soot & Cady.
The Minims unanimously voted a leather medal to the weather prophet of the Scholastic Almanac, for predicting a heavy fall of snow on the 14th of this month, to remain on the ground until after St. Patrick’s Day.—Scholastic of Feb. 10th.
We expect the “astrologer” of the Scholastic Almanac to pay his respects to those who voted him a leather medal for predicting the snow about St. Patrick’s Day.—Scholastic of March 2Mh.
I shall therefore, Mr. Editor, fulfil your expectations hy presenting my “respects”—I write “respects” in quotation, on the same principle, or want of principle, which induced you similarly to decorate the word “ astrologer ”— my “respects” to the Minims, who thought, forsooth, that, because of a little fine weather in February, the stores of snow and the treasures of hail were exhausted. It is true that on the 14th of that month no snow was visible to the naked eye in the latitude of Notre Dame, but whereas the snow-producing coincidence of St. Valentine’s Day with Ash Wednesday was equally efficient per urbem et orbem, and whereas one could hardly expect a simultaneous fall of snow throughout the universal world, which would destoy the equilibrium of forces, and goodness knows then what would become of us, my Minim friends must be satisfied to know that if they did not perceive any fall of snow on Ash Wednesday aforesaid, it was simply because they did not happen to be where the snow was falling. Had they been on the summit of Mount Popocatapetl, they might have had a leather medal on the wrong side of their mouth. We had the snow here as soon as it got ready, and I think it was sufficient to satisfy any reasonable demand.
I will take this opportunity of calling your attention to the satisfactory verification, so far, of my predictions in the Almanac for 1877, as follows:
“The conjunction of the Moon and Mars, which takes place on the 9th of January, 1877, in the adverse sign of Scorpio, while the moon is decreasing, is one of the most unfortunate events that could possibly occur, and if something does not turn up to hinder it, will cause bloodshed in various parts of the Southern States. * * * The conjunction of Jupiter and Venus, which takes place about the same time, and the fact that the Sun is the ruling planet for the year, may have some counterbalancing effect against this malignant aspect.”	_
Observe that it was on the 9th of January that Gov. Nicholls’ coup d'etat threw the whole nation into alarm. Everything, however, passed off quietly—owing, of course, to the conjunction of Jupiter and Venus, etc.
“ In February things look better. On the 7th, the planets Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are all assembled with the Moon in the constellation of the Sagittary, and the result of so much planetary influence combined can hardly be otherwise than beneficial.”
The Electoral Commission were sitting under this planetary combination, and on the 7th it first became evident ■ that Florida would be counted for Hayes. Whatever public opinion may be upon this result, it cannot be questioned that peace was secured by it to the nation.
“ On the 5th of March, the day of the Presidential inauguration, the Moon is again in Scorpio, but Mars is fortunately absent.”
Was not the anticipation intimated here realized to the very letter?
“ As the Moon completes her first quarter, Jupiter is in quartile with the Sun, and we presume Grant will settle everything up quietly.”
Poor man! he endeavored to do so. His last efforts were directed towards the resumption of specie payments, and the withdrawal of United States troops from the doubtful States. But what can even planetary influence avail against such men as Morton, Chandler and Blaine ?
“ That Easter Sunday should fall upon All Fool’s Day is as unlucky as it is unusual.”
The ladies who went to church in new spring bonnets and came home in a storm of wind and hail will bear me out in the truth of this. So far, then, I am unimpeachable, and as the remainder of my predictions are all couleur de rose, I hope that no unforeseen combination of calamitous influences will interfere with their fulfilment.
In conclusion, I will give my Minim friends some valuable hints as to my modus operandi in astrological predic-tious, to ensure success.
When you see the Great Bear whisking his tail it is a sign that flies will be troublesome in the ensuing months of July and August.
When the Twins get beyond the control of the Professor of Astronomy, it is a sign of impending domestic broils.
If you observe a large number of grindstones floating up stream on the First of January, you may depend upon having six weeks’ sleighing in March.
When a syzygy of Venus and the Moon occurs in the constellation Libra, it is a warning for you to make every effort to preserve your equilibrium.
When you see a ring around the Moon on the Second of February and a groundhog spinning around the ring on his left ear, you may look out for gunpowder explosions on the ensuing Fourth of July.
When a new Moon occurs on Easter Sunday, you will be sure to be swallowed up by.a whale on the First of May, unless the planet Mercury should happen to be in opposition to the Sun at the same time, in which case you will have to swallow the whale.
Having given you sufficient data for a first attempt, if your ambition should move you to become astrologers, I will leave you to make the application and achieve success thereby; suggesting that if that leather medal be struck and ready for presentation, I am to be found at all times in my office on the summit of Mount Popocatapetl, where I am employed day and night taking observations for the benefit of next year’s Scholastic Almanac.
The Astrologer.
Socialism.
In every age, in every period of the world’s existence, there have been men who attempted to devise or put in practice some new class of projects for the purpose of reorganizing society. The great poverty and distress of the multitudes, the oppressions, the frauds, and the innumerable diseases which seemed to have been the necessary concomitants of society have caused these men to inquire: What is the cause of these evils? is it possible that nature has decreed that the majority of men are thus to exist in this state of ignorance and misery, and that but a few only
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	485
are to be in the enjoyment of that which was intended for all? No: this cannot be,—Divine Providence has been more beneficent and generous than this; enough has been created for the supply of every one; and all that is necessary is that there be devised some more equitable means for the distribution of the copious bounties of so gracious and beneficent a Creator. To effect this, then, men must be subjected to a different system of regulations, which will be calculated to promote human welfare; in a word, society must be reconstructed. Such has been the mode of reasoning of those would-be reformers of society—or, as I may call them, devotees of phantasmal theories. Their theories have, however, for the most part, been ot the most impracticable and absurd kinds, and rather calculated to show the ingeniousness of their imaginations than any practicability for the' amelioration of the evils they had in min’d. All these different schemes, numerous as they are, may be classified under the general “ Socialism.” Among the first, and one of the most eminent of those who were
“ Employed
In forming models to improve the scheme Of man’s existence, and recast the world,”
was Plato. He belonged to that class which may be denominated as the theoretical. In his work, the “Republic,” he endeavors to unfold the mystery of perfect justice; he speaks of the rise and revolutions of different commonwealths; and contends that it would be possible, knowing the defects of these various commonwealths, to establish such a government as would enable men to attain the highest degree of perfection. Whatever may be its real value, we know that this work abounds in noble and beautiful sentiments. Hooker describes Plato’s justice as “ that law whose seat is in the bosom of God, and whose voice is the harmony of the world.” Coming down to a more recent period, we will find one who has equalled, if not surpassed, Plato’s speculations on a perfect government. I allude to Sir Thomas More. In the year 1516 he wrote a treatise called “ Utopia,” which was, as the name implies, a pure fiction. It was his object to paint in glowing colors a commonwealth where wickedness and vice were unknown ; where there were none but good citizens, and who were ruled by honest and conscientious statesmen; riches were contemned, and as a punishment for crime the culprits were obliged to perform all the degrading functions of society. This was about the substance of “ Utopia.”
About the earliest practical attempt at socialistic life was made by Pythagoras. He founded an asylum in the citj' of Crotona, in Graecia. This famous institution, however, though popular at first, was not of long duration. The Essenians, a Jewish sect, 420 years subsequent to this, were more successful in their attempts at socialistic reform than was Pythagoras. To escape the moral contagion of the cities and towns, they went to the western coast of the Dead Sea, and there sought to attain the ideal of what they conceived to be human perfection. They lived the most austere lives, ignoring riches and pleasures, and tried to subjugate their evil inclinations by fasting and prayer; they partook of but one meal a day. They were not allowed to marry; all lived under the same roof, ate at the same table, and were in every sense of the word equal. De Quincey endeavored to prove that the Essenians were not Jews, but early Christians who had assumed this disguise in order to escape persecution. That the Essenians could not have been Christians we know from the fact that they lived 180 years before the coming of Jesus Christ.
Two hundred years after this, the Therapeutae sprung from the Essenians, and far surpassed their predecessors m the rigor of their rules. They renounced all that was near and dear to them in this life, and gave themselves up to prayer, meditation and fasting, taking but one meal a day, at sunset, which consisted of bread and salt. Every seventh day they assembled for public prayer, and every seven years the men and women, who were on every other occasion separated from each other, assembled at a fraternal banquet ; and, to terminate the festival, they always had a sacred dance in commemoration of the dance on the shore of the Red Sea by the Israelites after their deliverance.
Such were some of the early attempts that were made to reform society; and if they were not a success, their projectors deserve, at least, our respect; for the object they had in view was a praiseworthy one. It was their desire to
“Arise and. fly
The reeling Faun, the sensual feast.
Move upward, working out the beast, And let the ape and tiger die.”
Now a word or two about modern “ Socialism.” How does it compare with that of more ancient times? St. Simon, a Frenchman who served in the war of American independence, tried to reform society by first reforming religion. In this respect the doctrine of St. Simon is inferior to the most imperfect of the doctrines that were advanced by the social reformers of ancient times; they strove to make society conform with the dictates of religion; while it was the object of St. Simon to have religion so fashioned as to conform with the requirements of its society. In 1832 this association was, on account of its licentious and immoral practices, dispersed by the French Government. At the same time that St. Simon was showing the French people the necessity there was for a reform in society, Owen was founding a colony at Lanark, England, which was, for a while, thought to be quite a success. Owen believed, or at least pretended to believe, that man is but the creature of circumstances; he is just what the circumstances in which he is placed make him, and is in nowise a free agent; reward or punishment is a defect in a government; our imperfections arise exclusively from the forms of society under which we live; this individuality of feeling which we have for our parents or friends can and should be overcome; the whole country should be divided into districts, and each district should accommodate about eight hundred persons; the people should dress alike, and eat together; in fact, there should be perfect equality. As for religion, Owen scouted the idea of having any such in his society. It was not long till Owen was followed by Fourier, who advocated a plan somewhat similar to that of Owen’s for the distribution of land; each district should contain about five hundred persons, and all should live in one large edifice; the proceeds should be divided, as in joint-stock companies, according to the amount of capital invested by each.
All these different forms of modern “Socialism” which I have mentioned had their evil consequences; they all entailed more or less evil on society, instead of the good results which were expected to follow from their establishment; but there is one more branch of “ Socialism,” which I have not yet mentioned, of quite recent origin, and of which I will say a few words—it is “ Communism.” Anyone who is familiar with the late-history of France, and the attempt that was made to establish Communism there in 1871, must shudder when he thinks of what were the
486
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
consequences. A few ambitious men, under pretence of benefiting the working class, placed themselves above the law, and obeyed no authority but that of the Commune which was said to be founded in a “ love of liberty, equality, and respect for human life.” In the name of the “ Commune” they carried on a system of murder, robbery and incendiarism; they deluged the country in blood; destroyed and trampled underfoot everything that was sacred. Though they pretended to be the advocates of an equality of rights, they recognized no man’s rights. Their doctrine might be summed up in a few words: “ The right of those who have not, to take from those who have.” Happily for France, this scheme which was so systematically ordered, and was being carried out with such infernal skill, was soon suppressed. The ill-success attending the efforts of those who attempted to establish a different order of things from, that destined by God, should serve as a warning to others who may likewise be tempted to disturb the natural order of things. If one man is rich and another poor, it is because God has so willed it; and it is not in the power of man to make it otherwise. We all have, however, a common destiny; and these should be the words of everyone:
. “Am I not brave and strong ? Am I not here To fight and conquer ? Have I not around A world of comrades, bound to the same cause, All brave as I—all led by the same chief, All pledged to victory ?”
M. B. Drabieb.
Scientific Notes.
—The natural sciences must be studied by facts not by words.
—Nature presents to its readers an admirably fine portrait of Prof. Hermann L. F. Helmholtz. The picture was engraved from a photograph.
—At a recent meeting of the British Linnsean Society, Mr. Arthur -Lister showed beneath the microscope the veritable circulation of the nutrient fluid of a common fungus.	,
—In the United States heavy rains are less frequent be tween 4.35 p. m. and 11 p. m. than at any other part of the day. The greatest falls are between 7.35 a. m. and 4.35 p.m'.
—The Engineering and Mining Journal urges the use of the telephone for mine signalling. The ability of promptly carrying on conversation between distant points would doubtless, in case of a mine accident, save many lives and much property.
—In Glashulte, Saxony, a manufacturer employs an aluminium in the production of watch-springs. The new springs have the advantage over the old in not being subject to rust, in not being magnetic, and in possessing greater hardness and elasticity.
—The Science Primers republished by Appleton & Co are calculated to popularize science and to make it attrac five to the young. Why could not these little stores of knowledge be explored by our younger friends in the primary schools ? the price is only 50 cts.
—In Africa is a species of fish that can live without water. It has the misfortune to belong to a river which dries up every summer. When the water gets low the fish very cooly burrows nearly two feet in the mud on the bottom, and there he stays, while the hot sun dries up the water, and bakes the mud till it is full of deep cracks. When the water comes back, fills the crack, and soaks into the ground, the mud-fish comes out as lively as ever.
—Prof. Grote maintains that the original inhabitants of America came from Asia by way of the north during the latter part of the miocene or earlier part of the pleiocene, and that this tertiary population spread to the south along
the mountainous backbone of the two Americas; that on the advent of the glacial epoch the people living in the extreme north were modified by the change in climate, and were brought down by the ice, and followed it back again to the arctic circle, and that the present representatives of glacial man are the Esquimaux. Through a study of migrations he reaches the conclusion that the ice must have acted as a barrier to further communication between the continents of Asia and America, and consequently that the civilizations of Central America and of the mound-builders are indigenous.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Alphonse Karr’s latest work is entitled “ On Demande un Tyran.”
—Mr. Lockyer’s next book will be on “ Star Gazing,” an cient and modern.
—Mr. Longfellow’s “ Poems of Places ” will reach Italy in the next new volume.
—The life of Robert Schumann will soon be published by William Reeves of London.
—S. G. W. Benjamin has a book in press entitled “ What Is Art ? or, Art Methods and Theories Concisely Stated.”
—M. J. Halevy has published in Paris a valuable historical work, “ Recherches Critiques sur 1’Origine de la Civilisation Babylonienne.”
—A new edition of Freiligrath’s poems has been issued at Berlin, containing many of his youthful verses which have not hitherto been published.
—HL. C. Mayreder, a Vienna scholar, appeals for the assistance of scholars in preparing a “ Polyglot Collection of Proverbs and Bibliography of Proverbs.”
—A new book by Josh Billings, “Trump Kards,”isin press at Carleton’s. The motto is a sound piece of practical advice: “ The time to be karefullest is when you have a hand full of trumps.”
—One of the rarest books printed in the nineteenth century is the first edition of the “ Book of Mormon,” published at Palmyra, N. Y., in 1830. Lord Macaulay tried in vain for years to procure a copy of it.
—Louis Ulbach has written a romance with the startling name of “ Memoires d’un Assassin.” It is published in the Bibliotbeque Contemporaine of Calmann Levy, as the old firm of Michael Levy freres is now called.
—Biography is the great card in bookselling circles for the last year or two, and the lives and letters of Macaulay, Ticknor, Miss Martineau and Kingsley sell better than the last new novel, especially when that, is a poor one.
—On the 16th of March Liszt gave a concert in Vienna for the benefit of the Beethoven monument fund. He played the E flat concerto and the piano part in the choral Fantasia. It is said that this was positively his last public appearance.
—Sims Reeves is engaged to sing in ballad concert at Brighton. Among the performances given on the occasion of his engagement “ The Beggars’ Opera ” will be performed, in which he will be called upon to sing no less than seventeen songs.
—St. Petersburg journals tell of the production, at Museum Gassner, of the long-announced sensational drama, entitled “Burned Alive; or, The Heavy Fate of Three Serbians Wounded and in a Turkish Prison.” It was received with rapturous applause.
—An unpublished Mass, by Mozart, has been discovered; it is claimed to be autograph, and was composed about the year 1777 for the Convent of the H<>ly Cross, at Augsburg. There seems to be no doubt of its authenticity. The “Domine Deus" and the uIncarnatus'' are said to be especialty fine.
—Mr. Sims Reeves, the great English tenor, is getting well on in years, and grows more capricious as he grows older. It is said that he now often refuses to sing at concerts where he has been announced, from no reason but the merest whim, and he is inflexible in his determination to respond to no encores.
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
487

—The Musikalisclies Wocheriblatt, a paper usually well-informed on matters connected with Wagner, announces that, owing to want of funds, there will be no performances at Bayreuth next summer. It further states that Wagner thinks of shortly coming to London to give a series of concerts, which he will himself conduct.
—M. Offenbach’s new bouffe, “La Forie St. Laurent,’’ has been produced at the Folies Dramatiques in Paris-The music is bright and lively, but without great pretensions. Mlle. Girard, who took an accessit at the conservatory, made her debut, and did very well. There is a duo of dragoons in this new bouffe which may rival in popularity that of the two gen d’armes in “Genevieve de Brabant.”
—The Augsburger Allgemeine Zeitung states that Khris-taki Zographos Effendi, the well-known Constantinople banker, has placed at the disposal of the Bavarian Royal Academy of Science and Literature a sum of twenty-five thousand francs, to serve as a fund, the interest of which is to be used for prizes, to be awarded by the academy in question for the best works, produced in competition on subjects relating to Greek literature, ancient or modern.
—It may not be generally known that Mme. Pappenheim has a husband, and he has a dog to which he is deeply attached. When “Lohengrin” (so runs the story, at least,) was about to be produced, this worthy gentleman besought Mr. Fryer to engage the dog and to use it in place of the swan in drawing the knight’s boat. And when Mr. Fryer refused him he went away and mourned bitterly. The dog is said to be of the Skye variety. -
—The “Frogs" of Aristophanes was announced to be brought out at Munich in March, in German, omitting all local and contemporary allusions, which a modern audience might find unintelligible. The stage was to be arranged after the Greek fashion, as far as possible, in all essential details. The most prominent philologists have been consulted about the matter, and the performances will doubtless attract professors and students from all German cities and university towns.
—The long promised work,“The Prince of Wales’ Tour in India,” by Dr. W. H. Russell, written under the sanction of his royal highness, who is said to have looked at some of the proof-sheets, is now in the binder’s hands, in England. The book is illustrated by Mr Sydney P. Pall, who accompanied the prince. It will contain thirty full-page, and more than forty smaller wood engravings, by Mr. J. D. Cooper, and the frontispiece is a permanent photograph of his royal highness.
—The failure of Boston to appreciate Mme. Essipoff, and the thrusts made at the modern Athens therefor, have brought out some astounding facts. Some one who signs himself “ Musician,” and is vouched for as “ one of the Boston musical profession,” writes to a daily journal of that city that “ Boston has a number of pianists who might justly be spoken of in equally glowing terms with Mme. Essipoff, and who would not permit themselves to be classed among the greatest of living pianists.
—While in Chicago last week, we saw the new marble statue of Saint Joseph, modelled in Rome by Mr. William W. Starr for the Cathedral of the Holy Name. If we can read expressions, it is Saint Joseph as the meditative saint; for that figure, in its chaste pose, and through every fold of its drapery, breathes the very spirit of holy contemplation. The head is one of remarkable beauty, and there is an artistic excellence in the entire work which shows a careful study from the life, but in such a spirit as to aid the idealism which such a subject should inspire. The people of the Holy Name have reason to be proud, as we hear they are, of a statue which excites admiration, not because of the number of cubic feet it presents to the eye, but as a work of art which cannot but excite devotion. There is a double satisfaction in saying this of a work by an American sculptor, and we should be glad to see more from the same hand in our sanctuaries.
—An exchange says: “ In our obituary notice of the late Mr.------, in yesterday’s issue, for the phrase ‘ he was a noble and pig-headed man,’ read ‘he was a noble and big-hearted man.’’
Books and Periodicals.
Marmion’s History of the Battle-Fields of Ireland,— Royal octavo, double super royal. Price 25 cts. 1877. Cincinnati, O.: John P. Walsh, 210 Sycamore Street.
Marmion’s history of the Maritime Ports in Ireland, originally published in Europe* in 1855, gives a history of the Danish and Anglo-Norman Invasion and the most remarkable events in the History of Ireland under the dominion of England, and a history of Dublin, Drogheda, Dundalk, Carlingford, Newry, Strangford, Carrickfergus, Bangor, Belfast, Coleraine, Londonderry, • Sligo, Ballina, Killala, Newport, Westport, Galway, Tralee, Limerick, Skibbereen, Kinsale, Cork, Waterford, New Ross, Wexford, Arklow, Wicklow, and the Vale of Avoca—the River Shannon; Bantry Bay, and all the Loughs and Rivers in Ireland. Mr. Walsh is publishing the work in numbers.
—The April number of the American Agriculturist opens with a large Illustration of Carolina Parrots and other American Birds, which is followed by thirteen columns (including April Bee Notes), of practical, seasonable hints and suggestions about spring work, in all departments. Grafting is so fully explained that any man, or boy even, can now do it successfully. This article is alone worth the yearly cost of the paper to those having fruit trees to improve. An important short article and engraving explains not only how to rapidly multiply valuable new potatoes, but also how to save $6 to $8 per acre in planting common sorts. Getting full light in interior rooms and halls is explained by an illustration of the American Agriculturist Buildings, which are lighted by a new and improved plan, of general application.—A variety of Humbugs are shown up in the regular chapter on this subject, a specialty of this journal, and in “ Old Seeds with New Names.—Important suggestions are offered to farmers by simple experiments. Prof. Atwater, of the Counecticut Agricultural Experiment Station, explaining how to conduct such experiments, —“Ogden Farm Papers”; “Among the Farmers, by One of Them," talks about a variety of topics; “ Talks on Farm Crops." Several pages with engravings describe sundry useful contrivances and implements; Peter Henderson talks about Geraniums; Prof. Sargent about Planting Native Forest Trees, for Use and Ornament, etc.—“Faith Rochester” has three columns of practical Talks with Mothers and Housekeepers. Vines in Windows, Moths and Millers, etc., fill up the Household columns.—“The Doctor,” “Aunt Sue,” aud others, amuse and instruct the young people with a variety of pictures, etc., including “ Bird-Houses that any Boy can Make,” described with six pictures showing them: How Things are Done in Other Countries, with a Turkish street scene. Altogether, this number of the American Agriculturist is very valuable, as well as interesting, and should be in every home. Price, 15 cents, or §1.60 a year post paid. Orange Judd Company, New York, publishers.
—Diogenes was asked one day why he was often seen eating in the public road. “ I should not do so,” answered this cynic philosopher, “if I did not feel hungry in the public road."
—When Pelham was at the head of the English Government, some members recommended that newspapers should be restrained from publishing the debates of the house. Pelham replied: “Let them alone, they make better speeches for us than we can for ourselves.”
—The invention of the modern system of punctuation has been attributed to the Alexandrian grammarian Aristophanes, after whom it was improved by succeeding grammarians ; but it was so entirely lost in the time of Charlemagne that he found it necessary to have it restored by Warnerfried and Alcuin. It consisted at first of only one point, used in three ways, and some lines of a stroke formed in several ways. But as no particular rules were followed in the use of these signs, punctuation was exceedingly uncertain until the end of the fifteenth century, when the learned Venetian printers, the Manutii, increased the number of signs, and established some fixed rules for their application.—GasseEs Popular Educator.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, A.pril 7, 1877.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana
The Literary Entertainment.
The second literary entertainment of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Association took place in Phelan Hall on Tuesday evening, April 3rd, at seven o’clock. There were few strangers present, but the students turned out largely and the hall was well filled by them.
These literary entertainments are becoming more and more popular and interesting, and we hope to see the day when they will be regarded here as they really should be. By means of no other kind, by no other manner of exhibitions is so much good accomplished both for the students taking part and those who form the audience. The research required in order to obtain suitable matter to present to a cultivated audience, the practice in composition undergone by the youthful orator or essayist, the exercise of the mind not only in composing but also in committing to memory what has been written, the familiarity with the rostrum acquired while speaking, these are all grave reasons why the literary entertainment should be preferred to all others by the earnest student, and we hope that with each ensuing year the frequency of oratorical displays may increase. Indeed we have good reason to believe that during the next scholastic year the energetic director of the St. Aloysians will insist upon having each month public sessions of his Society at which orations and essays will be given by the young members.
Last Tuesday’s Entertainment began with a quartette of string instruments. The programme informed us that the orchestra would favor us, but in this the programme was wrong; but then this is not the first time that programmes have been mistaken. The music by the quartette was of course good, and it was for this very reason that we must again quarrel with the programme, since they were announced to play at the close and did not. There is nothing like following a programme entirely and faithfully. Unless it is intended to give what is announced it is far better not to have a programme printed.
The first oration was delivered by Mr. William P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, who chose for his subject, “ Byron.” He began by giving a short biography of the distinguished poet, in which he narrated Byron’s travels, and how he died amid the lamentations of the Greeks aud the universal sorrow of civilized Europe. He then briefly traced his literary career from his first entrance into literary life. After considering his minor poems, he spoke at some length of the surpassing beauties of “ Childe Harold.” After a ummary of the extraordinary endowments of Byron’s genius he turned for a few moments to his brief but unhappy career, and showed that although Byron led a most disgraceful life yet there still shone behind his many faults a noble and tender heart. He closed by quoting an extract from the pathetic and beautiful tribute to his memory by Samuel Rogers, his friend and fellow-poet.
We think Mr. Breen somewhat unfortunate in the choice of his subject. A historical or biographical subject does well enough for an essay or a lecture, but for an oration they do not suit unless the orator intends eulogizing the man of whom he speaks. So Mr. Breen seemed to consider it, and as a consequence the oration was an eulogy of Byron. It is true he condemned the bad qualities for which Lord Byron was noted, and held up for admiration the great genius with which the poet was endowed, still when we consider the harm done to mankind by the satanic school of English poetry to which Byron belonged, we regret that Air. Breen should have selected him on whom to lavish praise. Mr. Breen’s delivery is good. His voice is clear and strong, and with a little more cultivation may be handled with great effect.
The declamation (“The Dying Alchemist”) of Mr. Carl Otto though, on the whole’ excellent, was marked by some defects. Mr. Otto must pay more attention to his voice. In his gesturing, his pose, etc., he was as successful as one could wish; but there was a huskiness in his voice and an indistinctness in his articulation which marred much of the pleasure enjoyed by those hearing him declaim. By more study in this regard, Mr. Otto would succeed as a de-cl aimer.
Mr. John G. Ewing’s essay was entitled “ Constitutional Government” He began by asking the question: Shall our Government be responsible or not? He then stated what constitutional government is, and its two kinds, responsible and irresponsible. The government of our country as an example of the latter form, and that of England or Switzerland as one of the former. The evils that are brought forward against the latter form: those of too frequent elections, and of subservience of the Administration to the Legislature, causing centralization of power into the same hands. The first could fit just as well if applied to our present Government. For the length of the Parliaments are three and a half years; a year and a half longer than that of our House. The second case can also be applied to us, as the centralization of the last sixteen years shows. The plea of non-intelligeuce of voters is even poorer than the other two. The evils of irresponsible government are: (1) Want of harmony and union between the two branches—examples of Buchanan and Grant. (2) The want of living issues—shown by many examples. (3) The want of civil-service purity. It cannot exist in an irresponsible government like ours, for such a government demands that men should be self-sacrificing. The case of Belknap shows the impossibility of checking or punishing this evil In a responsible government it! is far less likely
THE KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
489
to occur, for then the holders of office are at any moment liable to be held to an account. The answer, therefore, he would give to the question with which he began his essay, is, that we should have a responsible government, for it is the best; and moreover we think we are coming to it. Our government should be adapted to that form, with the President, Senate and House elected for a term of six or seven years, with a ministry responsible to the House. The House could be dissolved at any time by the President, who would have but this right and that of vote. But whether we should ever possess this government or not, it would matter little unless our public men show forth better examples of probity, justice and rectitude; and unless we correct the great abuse of party-jealousy and sectional strife, remembering we can but go forward and fight in the battle of life and in the struggle of nations but as one nation, with the same fear for national defeat, and the same hope for national triumph.
Mr. Ewing has a little hesitancy in his reading, which he should endeavor to overcome. Good reading is not what we hear every day. Besides correctness of pronunciation and the proper appreciation of the matter read, it is also necessary that the voice be modulated so as to bring out the strong words of a period. In Mr. Ewing’s reading there is too much of a sameness, and this is heightened at times, by the hesitation of which we have spoken. As regards bis treatment of the subject, Mr. Ewing is deserving of praise. He grasped it in a way which was at once comprehensive and philosophical, grappling with many of the knotty problems of legislation with a broadness of views which shows that he has already familiarized himself with, and formed fixed ideas on, points generally supposed to be beyond the reach of gentlemen of his age.
The next thing on the programme was a chorus by the Choral Union, but it was only on the programme. By some misunderstanding the chorus did not come off.
The essay of Mr. P. J. Cooney was entitled “ Henry Clay.” He began by saying that it is no figure of speech, no vain assertion nor idle assumption, to say that America has produced a band of heroes unsurpassed for their patriotism, unequalled for their valor, unmatched in virtue, and never equalled in their wisdom and statesmanship. The recollections of these men produce in our breasts thoughts that stimulate to works of brotherly-love and glory. If ever the enthusiasm of the American people is aroused, and their warm appreciation displays itself, it is when their souls are worked into passionate feelings by the venerated name of the illustrious Henry Clay. With that name is associated every quality that is great and glorious in the character of a man. Whether we regard him as an agriculturist amid the prairies and forests of the West, a lawyer in the courts of justice, or a Senator in the halls of Congress, he was great and illustrious. He was a man of extensive knowledge, sound sense, keen sensibility, with a command of lam guage truly wonderful. He labored strenuously in the cause of freedom, and from infancy consecrated his energies to her shrine. By his conservatism he rendered, in his day, the American government stable and secure; as envoy, he taught Europe to respect his country. During the session of compromise, he stood undismayed, displaying the valor of Achilles, the strength of Hercules, the power of Jove, and the enthusiasm of Paris. He concluded by hoping that the bright lessons of patriotism, statesmanship and philanthropy which Clay inculcated might exert their influence on the American people, and that his name might live
throughall succeeding years embalmed in the hearts of all.
Mr. Cooney’s essay was well written; but, after all, we' think he placed altogether too high an estimate on the services rendered his country by the subject of his essay. There is sometimes more injury done to a great man by fulsome praise than there is by denunciation and abuse. That Clay was a great man no one can deny; that he was entitled to the praise given him by the essayist we can scarcely admit Mr. Cooney is a good reader; his voice is clear and distinct, but he needs more familiarity with the stage to overcome the stiffness of his carriage.
“Parrhasius and the Captive” was declaimed by Mr.' William T. Ball. This declamation is one very difficult to render satisfactorily to a critical audience. There is great danger of the speaker overdoing or underdoing it. Mr. Ball acquitted himself in a very creditable manner, tho ugh his delivery was not perfect. In ordinary description he succeeds very well, so also in the more tender passages, but in the ruder and more violent passages his voice lacks strength and force enough to bring them out fully.
The subject of Mr. N. J. Mooney’s oration was “ Geology and Revelation.” He commenced by showing that the power and goodness of God is ever manifested and confirmed by scientific truths, especially those of geology; and by stating how important it is to fully understand just what science teaches, and how far she may go without getting out of her sphere. He then laid down the points which are discussed, and showed by the testimony of Scripture and by the views of eminent theologians and scientists that there is in reality noground for supposing any contradiction between Geology and Revelation. He quoted several texts of the Sacred Scripture referring to the subject, and stated the views of commentators on these texts, proving that they may be differently interpreted. He also showed that it is not the Catholic alone, but every honest-minded man, who defends the doctrine of the Scripture. He reminded his hearers that they need never fear lest truth should conflict with truth, for God is one, and His works though manifold are in harmony. He closed by comparing the relative merits of the Mosaic narrative and the speculations of philosophers and scientists, and showing the utter insignificance of the latter, and stated that the truths of science could never conflict with the written word of the Author of all truth. Mr. Mooney was altogether too discursive. Had he confined himself to a narrower sphere his words would have had far more weight than that which they carried. The breadth of his subject was such that before conviction on any one point could be carried home to his hearers he was forced to pass to some other. Mr. Mooney’s delivery is good, still not perfect; more ease will come to him through practice.
The declamation of Mr. T. 0. Logan, was Davis’ “Fon-tenoy," which was rendered very well. Mr. Logan’s voice is strong and heavy. He has considerable control over it, yet it is necessary for him to guard against one great fault. He is apt to become somewhat monotonous when giving simple description. In the more animated passages he controls his voice completely. He should strive to do so in those less violent. Messrs. Logan, Ball and Otto were each honored with an encore, to which they responded in excellent selections.
The Entertainment ended with the closing remarks of Rev. President Colovin, who called attention to the good parts of the exercises and pointed out the various defects.
490
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The affair was a very enjoyable one, and reflects credit on the St. Aloysians.
Personal.
—Rev. D. Tighe, of ’70, spent the afternoon here on the 4th.
—W. H. Hughes (Commercial), of ’74, is in the office of Spruck & Co., Peoria, Ills.	‘ ,
—Mr. Thomas Ryan, of Dubuque, Iowa, spent several days with us this last week.
—Among our Easter visitors was Miss Hemingway, the author of “ Maria Immaculata,” etc.
—Thos. A. Ireland, of ’72, is doing a large wholesale and retail drygoods business in Peoria, Ill.
—M. H. Keeley, of ’72, has. been elected a member of the Board of Directors of the State Temperance Union.
—Dr. Perley, surgeon of the United States Army, spent several days at Notre Dame at the beginning of the week.
—Very Rev. Father Hannon, of St. Patrick’s Church, Toledo, and Rev. Father O’Sullivan, of Laporte, were here on the 4th.
—Joseph Beegan (Commercial), of ’75, is teaching school at Warsaw, Ind. Joe is in the best of health, and tells us that he likes his profession.
—We were pleased to see Mr. Henry W. Quan, (Commercial) of ’75, at Notre Dame on the 4th. Harry is looking well, andi s doing well with his father at No. 50 River St., Chicago.
—When visiting Fort Wayne lately, we were pleased to see John H. Fleming, of’61, Max Miglinger (Commercial), of ’60, George Mayer (Commercial), of ’65, and Joseph Beegan (Commercial), of ’75. They were all well, and wished to be remembered to the “ old boys.”
—John D. McCormick, of ’74, was elected Mayor of the city of Lancaster, Ohio, on Monday last. The election was very close, but John pulled through, as he deserved to do. We congratulate the people of Lancaster on his election. They have done honor to themselves in choosing such an able and upright young man as their chief municipal officer.
—James A. Daily, of’58, was elected Aiderman from the 18th Ward in Chicago, on Tuesday. He first received a nomination on the Citizen’s ticket, and no nomination was to have been made against him. When, however, it was found out that he was a Catholic a nomination was made against him on the Democratic ticket. He was then, although a Democrat, put on the Republican ticket and elected. Chicago will have no Aiderman more honest than he.
—Cyrus V. Miller, Esq., of Goshen, Ind., Mr. and Mrs. McGrath, of Chicago, Ill., Mrs. and Miss Foote, of Burlington, Iowa, Air. Hardenburg, oi St. Paul, Minn., Airs. Wid-dicombe, of Sturgis, Alien., Air. and Airs. Leipziger, of Indianapolis, Airs. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Alichael Cleary, Esq., of Grand Rapids, Alicb., W. J. Budd, Esq., of Niles, Aiich., Aliss U. Doyle, of Kalamazoo, Aiich., Alichael Din-nan, Esq., of Boston, Alass., and Adam Smith, of Cincinnati, Ohio, were among our visitors the past week.
—Of William Hoynes, of ’68, Pomeroy'& Democrat says: “With this issue of the Democrat, our talented associate editor, William Hoynes, concludes his work on the paper, to enter upon the active practice of the law. Air. Hoynes has been engaged on the Democrat since its first issue in Chicago, and has done most efficient, reliable service. He came with us to remain for a few months, but time has drifted along—we have had so much to do that he could not be spared, and he has kindly remained, helping on the work and the cause in which his heart is enlisted—the defense of the greenback as the redeemer of labor from bondage. Some of the best political articles the Democrat has contained have been from the pen of our associate, while much of the severe routine labor of the sanctum has been on his shoulders. After a brief rest and visit to his relatives and many friends in Wisconsin, Air. Hoynes will establish himself in the practice of law, for which distinguished profession, after first acquiring the mastery of print
ing and newspaper work, he has admirably fitted himself, so that from a poor boy he has steadily risen on the ladder up which self-made men climb to a position of power and promise of great usefulness. We shall miss him, as will all in the office, but articles from his pen will from time to time help to educate the public and interest our growing army of readers, all of whom will join us in wishing for him the fullest measure of success.” We were pleased to see Mr. Hoynes at Notre Dame on the 4th.
Bocal Items.
—Spring has now set in in good earnest.	/
—Of course there was rec. on Easter Monday.
—Again the lakes are clear of ice and the fields of snow.
—The musical soiree announced in our last issue did not take place.
—We had a number of visitors here from various cities, on Easter Sunday.
—Our baseball clubs are now getting ready for the championship games.
—The spring walks in the country around are becoming popular with the Juniors.
—A new pulpit will soon be placed in the new church and the present one removed.
—And now comes on the season when the dry leaves must be raked together and burned.
—The Juniors began their fishing excursions on Wednesday afternoon. Their luck was so-so.
—Corporal Jones is an efficient officer. His drill last Tuesday was as thorough as could be desired.
—The Nimrods gave an oyster supper on Alonday evening. Those present speak of it as a grand affair.
—The Lemonnier Library Association return their thanks-to Airs. T. Caulkins, of Toledo, for a donation of $5.
—The members of the Arcbconfraternity took an excursion in the country last Alonday, and we understand had a pleasant time of it.
—“A mind always employed is always happy. This is the true secret, the grand recipe for felicity. The idle are the only wretched.”
—“The Versatile” reached the age of nineteen, lasftTues-day. It is a downright slander to say that his patronal feast occurred last Sunday.
—Would it not be well for the societies to make it a rule that once a member is appointed to take a part in an exhibition he must either take it or pay a heavy fine ?
—The English Te Deum sung after Mass last Sunday was very fine. We hope our Junior friends will be allowed to sing an English hymn every Sunday after the Alass is over.
—The ceremonies of Holy Week were all carried out in • full. Mr. Morissey, C. S. C., the master of ceremonies, acquitted himself of his arduous duties in a highly creditable manner.
—We understand that all the religious societies intend procuring regalia in time to take part in the grand procession around the upper lake on the feast of Corpus Christi This is right.
—A very fine statue of the Sacred Heart has lately been received here, and placed in the new church, where it has excited the attention of all visitors. It is truly a fine work, and is worthy of the admiration it receives.
—A state of health—Md—Danbury News. A state of suffering—III.—Washington Herald. A fatherly state—Pa. —Norristown Herald. An enjoyable state—Ga.—Graphic. A state oi surprise—O.l—Chicago Times. A fashionable state—Miss.	'
—Nespers to-morrow are of the Annunciation of the B. V. M., page 137 of the Vesperal, with a Commemoration of Low Sunday, page 88. The antiphon of the B. V. M., sung at the end of Vespers until Trinity-Eve, will be the Regina Cadi, page 235.
—The 29th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held April 2d. The following de-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	491
claimed: W. Nicholas, C. Peltier, J. Ingwerson, F. Phelan, F- Lang, K. Scanlan, R. Keenan, and J. Anderson. L. Sievers was elected a member.
—The following is the first nine of the Star Baseball Club: A. BetcherNc.; H. C. Cassidy, p.; F. Maas, s. s.; P. J. Hagan, l\f)>and cap’t.; Chas. Hynes, 2 b ; Wm. T. Ball, 3 b.; E. Sugg, 1. f.; A. Hertzog, c. f.; J. P. Quinn, r. f.; Substitutes, G. W. McGorrisk, 0. H. Hamilton and E. F. P. Arnold.
—The congregation on Easter Sunday was very large. Solemn High Mass was sung by Very Rev. Father Sorin, assisted by deacon and subdeacon. The new cloth-of-gold vestments were admired by all who saw them; especially did they look grand at Solemn Vespers, where all were used.
—The 28th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place on the 1st iust. The weekly reports were handed in. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. J. Perea, G. Cassidy, T. Nelson, O. Lindberg, J. Mosal, R. P. Mayer, C. Hagan, J. L. Healy, G. Sugg and , A. J. Burger.
—Master Robert Westphal, of South Bend, visited the College last week, accompanied by his dog “Jack.” Jack is a large Newfoundland dog, and well trained. He performs some strange feats at the command of his youthful master. Rob always addresses the dog in German, and gives as a reason for doing so that Jack don’t understand English very well.
—The Secretary of the Juanita Baseball Club writes: As you requested in your last issue the names of the gentlemen forming the different baseball nines, I have the honor to send you herewith the names of the members of the Juanita Baseball Club: J. L. Perea, 3 b.; V. F. McKinnon, c.; W. A. Chapoton, p.; M. Smith, 1 b.; M. E. Cross, 2 b.; W. L. Dechant, 1. f.; G. J. Gross, s. s.; E. H. White, c. f.; J. R. Lambin, r. f.
—A meeting of the Atlantic Baseball Club was held April 1st: The following named officers were elected: J. Ryan, President; H. Deehan, Capt.; E. Maley, Treasurer; M. Dillon, Secretary; H. Murpny and W. J. Boulger, Field-Directors. The following are positions: J. Deehan, c.; M. Dillon, p. ; H. Deehan, 1st base and Capt.; E. Maley, 2d base; W. Boulger, 3d base; J. Ryan, s. s.; G. Bowman, 1. f.; W. Thompson, c. f.; H. Murphy, r. f.	.
’ —Would it not be well if some of the young gentlemen who indulge in the weed would “eschew ” it while in church? Of course of those who do use it, there are comparatively few—perhaps an exceptional case—who use it in church; but even these few should abstain from it while within the sacred precincts of the house of God. Our attention has been called to the matter, with a request to make a note of it, which we reluctantly do, and hope to have no occasion to refer to so disagreeable a matter for the future. If a person would not spit on the parlor floor in the house of a friend, and particularly when that friend was present, still less should he do so in church. In the first place, it would be extremely ill-bred, vulgar; in the second, it would amount to positive irreverence if not done thoughtessly, as we feel sure it is here.
.—Last Sunday as the Juniors were passing the general office the countenance of one of their number lit up with a smile as he gave a significant glance in the direction of the office. “I knew it would come,” he whispered to a companion. The cause of his delight was a solitary box standing in a conspicuous place near the office, with the delighted one’s name inscribed in large characters. As soon as the ranks were dismissed, he selected a detail of two to assist him to convey it to the trunk-room. As the two boys raised the box from the ground, one of them remarked : “Very light, Joe; unleavened bread, I presume.” “Nonsense, nonsense! sponge cake, I reckon.” Imagine his surprise ’ and indignation on opening his box to find about a peck of a good quality of oats. He says as it was the 1st of April he forgives the fellow, but advises him not to repeat the joke again.
—On the 4th, the students of St. Mary’s gave an excellent entertainment in honor of their Prefect of Studies. The entertainment should have taken place on the 25th of March, but as Palm Sunday fell on that day, it was post
poned until after Lent. All the young ladies took their parts well; indeed it has been remarked that the entertainment was one of the best ever given at the Academy. The instrumental music was well rendered, and the addresses pleasingly read; the singing was all that could be desired, and the acting in the drama highly creditable. Next week our St. Mary’s correspondent will give a full account of the exhibition. Among those present were Very Rev. Father General; V. Rev. F. Hannin, of Toledo; Rev. Fathers Col-bvin, O’Mahoney, Shortis, Zahm, Letourneau, Frdre, Tighe, of Chicago, O’Leary, of Brooklyn, Walsh and Bigelow. There were there, besides, Profs. Howard and Edwards, Mr. Hoynes, late of Pomeroy's Democrat, H. W. Quan, and many ladies and gentlemen whose names we failed to learn.
—The postmaster at the Notre Dame Post-Office says that much inconvenience is given strangers by letter-writers at Notre Dame neglecting to head their letters. The initial letters P. 0., added to Notre Dame, are superfluous; the name of the post-office is alone necessary, as all acting post-office officials are cognizant of the fact that a post-oft fice is located here. “Notre Dame, Ind.,” or any other established office, has a certain location, authorized by national law, and it stands on distributing maps as distinctly as South Bend or Chicago. But to address a letter simply to the “ University of Notre Dame, Ind.,” is not enough,— or is, rather, too much; the name of the post-office, without prefix or affix, should occupy a line by itself, as also the State, otherwise they may be laid aside by new clerks on distributing-cars until they have leisure to consider the matter. Letters which have “South Bend” superadded are generally one mail late, as the clerks are much hurried at distributing hours. A little attention to these points will save much trouble and delay, especially where promptitude and despatch are an object.
—We have latterly noticed remarks in some of our college exchanges, concerning the conduct of students, that make us believe our grievances here are nothing at all in comparison to what may be met with elsewhere. These remarks referred notably to class-room and chapel—places which, together with dormitory, refectory, etc., should of all others give evidence of gentlemanly conduct and good breeding. True, a gentleman shouil be a gentleman wherever he is, and should not forget tins even for a moment; and as his conduct is the criterion by which he is to be judged, he should endeavor so to deport himself that no one, whether of the college authorities or his school-fellows, will have any occasion to find fault with him. Aye, more than this: there are some people whose presence, you will notice, seems to give a pleasure to all around them—teachers or classmates,—whom it is a pleasure to associate with at school, and whose memory will ever be fresh in the minds of their companions in after-life. What is the reason of this ?—whence does it come that one can be so agreeable, so acceptable, while another, no less gifted—nay, possessing superior qualities in some respects—is, on the contrary, a bore or a nuisance ? Simply this—one deports himself as a gentleman, in manner and habits, while the other pays no regard whatever either to his own conduct or the feelings of others. Politeness and gentlemanly behavior is, after all, a kindly regard for the feelings of others; without this, form and ceremony are but a mummery, a mere hollow pretence, and the further they are carried the more disgusting they become. And when this regard for others’ feelings has its foundation in charity, the possessor of it casts around him that attractive influence of which we have spoken, and which it should be the endeavor of every young man to attain. Young gentlemen should therefore pay particular attention to words and acts that may tend to wound the feelings of others or that may make their own presence disagreeable. After all, as we said above, our grievances here are in this respect very light, and we could not help being agreeably struck with the contrast here presented with what we hear of elsewhere. But of course there are exceptions, very few certainly—perhaps two or three in a department—and if our moralizing will but penetrate their thick hides, or even one of the number, we will feel satisfied.
—A correspondent writes to us the following description of the Suspension Bridge at Niagara, the official inspection of which has lately been completed: “This bridge was built by Mr. Roebling in 1853-’54. Its four towers are
492 .
T;HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
each 90 feet in height and constructed of cut stone blocks 18 inches thick. The base of each tower is 15 feet square and the top 8 feet square, the cap-stone being 10 feet square. Each tower is surmounted with an iron saddle with rollers upon which rest the cables, firmly holding the saddle in ' position. The rollers allow the cables to move easily, so j that in contraction and expansion there is no additional ’ strain upon them or the towers. At all other points of bearing are cut-stone caps securing everything from the action of the elements A massive arch connects the towers some 20 feet from the base above, which is the railway track, and below, the carriage way. The anchor pit, cut in the solid rock, is 24x20 feet, and 24 feet deep, with drifts for anchor plates, weighing 6,000 pounds each, to which are attached chains with links 250 pounds each, which reach up through “ gains ” cut in the rock, where they connect with massive wrought-iron shafts, over the ends of which is looped the wire that forms the cables. The wires, brought to a tension of 1,200 pounds, are looped upon the shafts at the anchorage, which is filled with masonry and concrete, rendering it almost solid rock. The wire for the cables was put through a process of boiling in oil, with a glutinous mixture, being kept in the cauldrons thirty minutes, and then dried in the sun. It passed through this process three times, the wire being thoroughly annealed and rendered impervious to water. It was then spliced. Each cable is composed of 5,000 strands, which is so spliced as to be in fact one continuous wire, 1,250 miles in length. Each strand was laid with a tension of 1,200 pounds. As each cable contains, 1,250 miles of wire, the four contain 5,000 miles. The whole weight of wire is over 500 tons, giving a safe working capacity of 12,000 tons. It is estimated, however, that the cables would easily bear a strain of 18,000 tons. Connecting these cables with the bridge are 670 suspenders, each of 30 tons capacity, with 50 guys fastening the bridge to the river banks, extending from the centre to the rocks in such a manner as to prevent a lateral or lifting movement by the winds. A single train extending from one end of the bridge to the other with an engine and tender weighing 50 tons, would weigh 326 tons, so that at their mean bearing capacity of 12,000 tons it would take forty trains one piled on top of the other to snap the cables. The engineers will report that there has been no granulization, no corrosion, and no settling, save the slight natural spring of the cables. Cars have been passing over the structure day and night these twenty two years past, and frequently one thousand cars have crossed it in' a single day, yet it is absolutely as sound to-day as it was when the first train sailed over it in 1854.” This bridge was built for the use of the Grand Trunk R. R., whose cars are run over it.
Boll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Bnrke, P. Cooney, AL Caldwell, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, E. Davenport, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, T. Garso, A Hertzog, J. Hamilton, J. Johnson, J. F. Krost, J. Krost, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, W. Kelly, J. Lambin, J. Larkin, G. Laurens, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, J. Murphy, T. McGrath, J. McEniry, W. McGorrisk, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, C. O’Donald, L. Proudhomme, J. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, T. Quinn, E. Riopelle, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, T. Summers, F. Schlink, J. Silver-thorn, G. Saxinger, P. Tumble, F. Vandervannet, J. Vanderhoof.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, A Bergck, T. Barry, J. A Burger, A J. Burger, J. Boehm, G. Cassidy, G. Donnelly, F. Ewing, A, Congar, J. English, P. Frane, R. French, C. Faxon, L. GarCeau, P. Gibbons, J. L. Healey, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, G. Ittenbach, C. E. Johnson, A Keenan, M. Kauffman, F. Lang, J. Lumley, J. Mungoven, E. Moran, R. Mayer, J. McTague, T. Nelson, W. Ohlman, C. Or-singer, E. Pennington, F. Pleins, E. Poor, R. Price, J. Reynolds, J. Rothert, L Rose, P. Schnurrer, G. Sugg, J. Schobey, J. Stewart, J. Sill, W. Taulby, N. Van Namee, C. Van Mourick, L. Wolf, F. Rheinboldt.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Heron, G. Lowrey, P. Nelson, R. Pleins, W. McDevitt, Geo. Lambin, J. Seeger, G. Rhodius, G. Hadden, C. Reif, J. Scanlan,
W. Coolbaugh, H. Eiopelle, H. Kitz, C. Kauffman, A. Rhein-boldt, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, F. Carqueville, A Coghr lin, W. Coghlin, W. Carqueville.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
FOR WEEK ENDING APRIL 5TH.
PREPARATORY COURSE.	‘
Seniors.—J. Proudhomme, L. Proudhomme, T. Summers, W. Dodge, W. Turnbull, W. Arnold, O. Rettig, W. McGorrisk, E. Davenport, P. O’Leary, J. Gray, T. Quinn, H. Whitner, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, M. Caldwell.
Juniors.—O. Lindberg, J. Duffield, R. French, A. Keenan, F. Lang, K. Scanlan, F. Carroll, C. Johnson, R. Johnson, A Abrahams, W. Taulby, B. D. Heeb, F. Pleins, A. Widdicombe, E. Poor, R. Mayer, J. Larkin, A Burger, F. Ewing, J. Heily, F. Cavanaugh, T. Nelson, W. Jones, J. Boehm, H. Canoil, J. Ingwer-son, J- Carrer, L. Garceau, I. Rose, W. Hake, E. Anderson, J. Scholby, A. Sievers, J. Mungoven, C. Faxon, L. Sievers, C. Van Mourick, C. Caldwell, W. Vander Hadden, W. Champlin, R. Price, J. Sill, J. Stewart, C. Taylor, AL Condon, F. Barry.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
R. Pleins, G. Lowrey, P. Heron, A. Coghlin, W. McDevitt, J. Seeger, W. Coolbaugh, G. Lambin, G. Rhodius, G. Hadden, C. Reif, J. Scanlan, W. Cash, P. Nelson, H. Riopelle, H. Kitz, C. Kauffman, A. Rheinboldt, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, F. Carqueville, W. Carqueville, F. Gaffney, W. Coghlin.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING MARCH 29.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Philosophy—J. Ewing, W. Breen; Latin—J. Coleman. W. P. Breen, N. Mooney, A. Hertzog, P. Skahill, W. Dechant, W. Widdicombe, G. Gross, J. McEniry, F. Hastings, M. Caldwell; Greek —A Hertzog, H. Maguire, J. O’Rourke, J. Kinney, J. Coleman, J. Ewing; Logic—L. Evers, W. Dechant; English Literature— N.J. Mooney; Rhetoric—J. Larkin ; Composition—E; Peffer man; Astronomy—W. T. Ball; Trigonometry—J. Kinney ; Geometry—J. Larkin, J. Montgomery; Calculus—H. Cassidy; Mechanics—J. Ewing; Algebra—J.McEniry ;Geology—J. Coleman, J. McEniry; Zoology—N. Mooney, H. Cassidy ; Botany—N. J. Mooney; Physiology—H. Maguire, J. Larkin.
1

—As Easter Sunday is a day of jubilee no minus notes could be given, hence every pupil may be supposed to stand 100 par excellence.
—The ceremonies of Holy Week were carried out in a very impressive manner. The sermons were preached by Rev. Father Cooney, C. S. C.
—Easter Sunday was indeed a joyous day. Many old friends and pupils of the institution came to assist at the grand ceremonies of the morning.
—On the afternoon of Easter Sunday sixteen novices made their final vows and twenty-nine postulants received the holy habit and veil of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Very Rev. Father Superior General officiated.
—The roll, neatly framed containing the list of names of the young ladies of the Rosary Society of St. Mary’s, left at he Register store some days since for exhibition as a specimen of fine hand-writing, has been admired by a great many people, and numbers called every day on purpose to see it.—South Bend, Register.
—Our Holy Week at St. Mary’s has been unusually rich in ceremonies and in sermons. On Holy Thursday, Rey; Fr. Cooney celebrated Mass, with Rev. Fr. Shortis as dea-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
493
con and Rev. Fr. Lilly as subdeacon. The repository was really beautiful; all abloom, in spite of the heavy March snows.' On Friday, Fr. Shortis was celebrant, assisted by Fr. Lilly; and on Holy Saturday Fr. Lilly sang the Litanies as celebrant. The sermons on all these days, by Rev. Fr. Cooney, were worthy of his fame as a zealous missionary. We have reason to thank Fr. Shortis for his zeal in promoting the beauty of the ceremonies in the convent chapel.
—The beautifully ornamented Geological Chart presented on the Feast of the Annunciation by the Graduating Class to the Prefect of Studies is much admired and highly valued as a token of affection by their devoted teacher. The festive celebration of the Feast took place on Wednesday evening, when the following programme was given : Overture to “Merry Wives of Windsor”.........(Bicolai) Misses Spencer and Nunning.

Hunters’ Chorus.........................(Toggeriburg)
Vpcal Class. Accompaniment by Miss Nunning. .
Salutatory from Senior Department.......... .Miss Ritchie
TABLEAU. “Ave Maria”...............................(Cherubini)
Miss Foote. Address from Rosary Society..........Miss	A. O’Connor
Vocal Duett—“ Serenade ”....................(Schubert)
Misses Morgan and Byrne.
Address from Junior Department..........Miss D. Gordon
Apology from Minim Department........... “ Fantasia Brilliante ”.................(Pape)
Miss Wilson.
ST. CLOTILDE, QUEEN OF FRANCE. An Original Drama.
Prologue........'................:.......Miss Beall
Act 1st—Scene 1st.
Beotia...............................Miss	C.	Morgan
Hyndus...............................   “	M.	Smalley
Hessi....;............................ “	M.	Cravens
Sybil................................. “	A.	Morgan
Celade............................... “ A. Kirchner
Isael................................ “ M. Usselman
Scene 2d. Clotilde.............................Miss H. Foote
Laona................................ “ D. Cavenor
Scene 3d. Athenias................................Miss Russell
Sylvia...............................Ella Mulligan
Vocal Quartette—“Spring-time ”.......(Mendelssohn)
Misses D. Cavenor, L. Kirchner, Spencer and Wilson. Scene 4th. Leonora..............................Miss A. Cavenor
Pretoria.............................. “ E. Thompson
Fansta................................. " N. McGrath
Theodora............................. “ A. Walsh
Scene 5th. Overture to “Abu Hassen ”...............(Von Weber)
Misses Hawkins and Pleins.
Act 2d—Scene 1st. Emerita..............................Miss E. O’Neil
Ebba.................................. “	M. Ewing
Placidia.............................. “	Breeze
Galla................................. “	O’Mahony
Justina............................... “	Byrne
Tecla................................. “	Moran
Eudocia........................................... '
Benita................................ “	O’Meara
Scene 2d. Act 3d—Scene 1st. Song—“ Tarentelle ”......................(IS Arditti)
Miss E. O’Connor.
Scene 2d.
Ingelberg...............................Miss Ritchie
Song—“Adelaide ”.........................(Beethoven)
Scene 3d.
Angel...................................Miss Faxon
“Fantasia”.........................Miss E. O’Connor
Chorus—“Hail Smiling Morn!”..............(Spoforth)
Vocal Class. “ Galop de Concert”........... Misses Cronin and Byrne
THE “WESTERN CITIZEN.”
The Western Citizen, the only Journal published in Indiana in the interests of the Irish race, will be furnished at
One Year -	-	-	' -	$1 50
Six Months -	-	-	—	90
Three Months -	-	-	50
Sample Copies sent on application.
Address
“WESTERN CITIZEN,”
INDIANAPOLIS, IND.
Through trains are ran to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, comer Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express. .10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m. Pera accommodation ................ 500 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express......................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CANDY! CANDY! .CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
200 S. Clark St.,
CHICAGO, ILL.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy.....................:............15c
Fine Mixed Candy...........................  .25c
Choice Mixed Candy............................35c
Caramels......................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy..................... ,25c
Proportionately X<ow Prices to w nole-sale Cash Buyers.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOG-RAPHEZR;
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH ZBZEZESTZD,
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrAlRS and TOBACCOS at the
“Students’ Office,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND,
494
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law..
SPEER <fc MITCHELL fN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G. TONG, [of'65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Real Estate Agent, Room No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
mHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States; 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.	-
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOIINT IP. McHUGII [of’72), Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE <St DODGE [Chas. -I., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office. 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE <fc MTT,T,ARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of tne U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
\\i 1LLIA Ml J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St., Columbus. O.
JA.M3ES A. O’REILLA7-of ’69 —Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN F>- McCORMICK-of'B-At'omey at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ART11U R J. STAGE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
“Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN.pub ished weekly at Columbus, 0. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clabke, of ’70.
THE AVh NXAIXTA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, punished every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, §2.5(1.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
• Aethub C. O’Bbian, of ’76.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodium, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
TH G BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Price 25 cts., postpaid.
Orders should he sent to
J. A. LYONS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	•
GOING EAST.
2 25 a m„ Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 10.
IO 07 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55 p m; Cleveland 9 45.
X1 59 a m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 ID p m; Cleveland 9 45 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40 a m; Cleveland, 7 ( 5 am; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
d 40 p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 415 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m, Chicago 6 30 a m.
5 38 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 9 a m
405 pm, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 8 20 p m.
8 OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPBOVED BY BIS HOLINESS PIUS H„ ABD MABY BUM PBELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Marta may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henbi Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” ■ etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TEE-Lzrs:
One Year........................................$	2 50
Five Years.......................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each)..20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	495
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections,. forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lae, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.
Close connections made at junction points with trains of ad cross points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in tbe UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bemember, you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & NorthWestern Railway, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES,
Union Depc r, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, H., and Louisiana, Mo........4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J, C. McMullin, Gem Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Chnrch and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, ere., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame. Ind.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME
DEC. 10,1876?
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.30 p.m.	9.00 AM.	2.00 p.m.	6 00 AM.
Rochester,		12.40 am.	10.15 “	3.14 “	7.45 “
Alliance,..............	305 “	12.50 p.m.		11.00 “
Orrville,	447 “	2.32 “	7.42 “	12.55 pm.
Mansfield,		6.50 “	440 “	9.55 “	3.11 “
Crestline,	 Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	10.30 “	3.50 “
Crestline, 	Leave	7 50 a.m.	540 p.m.	10.35 p.m.	
Forest,				9.25 “	7.40 “	11.53 “	
Lima,		10.45 “	9.35 “	1.05 a.m.	
Ft Wayne,		1.20 p m.	12.10 AM.	3.25 “	
Plymouth,	-		3.45 “	3 20 “	5.49 “	
Chicago,			Arrive	7.20 “	7.20 “	920 “	
GOING EAST.				
	^O. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pa<-. Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,		Leave	10.40 p.m.	8.20 a.m.	5.35 p.m.	. . . . . — . . .
Plymouth,			2.40 am.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft Wayne - -			6 55 “	2.10 pm.	11.45 “	
Lima..................	8 55 “	405. “	1.39 AM	
Forest, ... ...........	10.10 “	5.20 “	2 50 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.20 “	... .....
Crestline	Leave	12.05 pat.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 am.	605 am.
Mansfield,				12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	650 “
Orrville,			2.32 “	9.38 “	6.58 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		4.10 “	11.15 “	8.55 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 AM.	11.06 “	2.00 pm.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 pm.	3.30 “
Train No. 6 runs Daily. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F, B. M7EBS, G. P. & T, A.
496
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
proprietor of the
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
K S HICKEY.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’Wgencv has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “ Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of id cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an ex cellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spec'es number indicates the place of any mineral in the tab’e of species, after i' wi’l be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the stoie No. 3727, and use it. entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best, custom work.	• ■
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the l?th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1.500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTION'S OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of loo illustrate all the principal.species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System: and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections are labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number; the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Blastrated Catalogue and table of species. - - • -
Numbeb of Specimens
25 inbox	50 in box	ioo inbox
§ 50	SI	§1 50
1 50	3	6
100
Crystals and fragments.. Students’ size, larger.. Amateur’s size, 2J4 in. x 1%....,........... High School or Acad, size, 2%x3/t in shelf specimens College size, 3%x6 in., shelf specimens . . -
S 1
5
10
25
500
200
300
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21, 1875.
	’Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal.. Accom.	+Atlantic Express.	t Nigh Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
** Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 00 “	6 30 “	7 40 “	11 15 “
“ Niles .	9 02 “	12 09 p.m	8 20 “	8 55 “	12 35 “
“ Jackson. ..	2 08 p.m	3 55 “	Express.	12 40 a.m	4 52
Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 45 “	fi 25 “	10 15 “	3 30 “	8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	10 05 a m	4 CO p-m	5 40 p.m	9 50 p m
“ Jackson		0 40 “	12 32 p.m	7 15 “	9 25 “	12 42 a.m
“ Niles		3 45 p,m	4 23 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 10 “	5 35 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 50 “
Ar. Chicago....	7 30	8 00 “	10 20 ’•	6 30 *•	8 00 “
IN lies and SoujtlL Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. 7 15 p m. §9 06 a.m. §7 00 p.m
“ Notre Dame-8 22 “	7 23 “	9 07 “	7 07 “
Ar. Niles—	9 00 “	8 00 “	9 40 “	7 40 “
GOING .SOUTH.	.
Lv. Niles—	6 30 a.m. 4 20 p.m. §8 00 a.m. §5 00 p.m
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4 56 “	8 32 “	5 32 “
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5 05 “	8 10	5 40 “
•Sunday excepted.	tDaily.' ^Saturday and Sunday excepted
- §Sunuay only.
G. L Elliott.	Wm. B. Stbong,
Agent, South Bend, ,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago
Henby C. Wentwobth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame-
ZF- ZMZZEj'X’HjJ?/, Agent
FOK
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
i tlMiMMOT.’, SOUTH-,BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
'	s 30-ly
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
IISrZDTA.JSr.A-
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.	•	'	.	.	.
:	TERMS. ,	.
Matriculation Fee.................................  §5	00
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included), Bed and Bedding, Washing and a
Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150 00 Instrumental Music................................  12	50
Use of Piano...................................... 10	00
Use of Violin........................................   2	50
Telegraphy............................................ 10	00
Tr„„„1 t	J General Class Principles............ 10 00
Vocal Lessons, j Vocal Culture........................ 15	00
$ 2
10
25
50
100
§ 3
25
50
100
300
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy, fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of natural Sciences and of the American Museum of natural
Bistory, Central Park, New York,
Elocution—Special Course.-.^-. .-.......-.  . 5 00
Use of Library (per session)................  100
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic..-...;...... 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus..'...;.... 5 00
"	' ^Classical Course:.;..10 00
Graduation Fee,-< Scientific Course.i....... 10 00
( Commercial Course............ 5 00
Students who spend Summer vacation at the University are charged extra................... 40 00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE. .
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Qolovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind,