The Scholastic.
pEYOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS.
Dlsce quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTES DAME, INDIANA, MAY 15,1875.	. Number 34-
JNO. HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG. Chy Judge.	Notaby Public. ~p~AGERTY & TONG, ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW, REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines. COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.	. 9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana. o24-ly	NICAR & Co., * HARDWARE MERCHANTS, 118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA HEADQUARTERS FOR Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc., Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boner, etc., _	o24-tf
	y NICAR,	. • DEALER IN HARDWARE, 91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. ALL SORTS OF Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc —ALSO—	'	■ Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. o24-tf
Before going elsewhere, go to TH S. PECKS,	„ , . Pi.	Dealer in HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.	
	J. STAGE, *	COUNTY SURVEYOR, Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc. Orders expeditiously attended to. 3R8 Office with M. Stover, Room 22, over Wills & Sterns Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.	-	- nov28-%tf.
£) J. HOLLAND, & Co., . *	Wholesale Manufacturers of	• HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS, —ALSO— WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.	. 1OO MICHIGAN St., - - SOUTH BEND IND., 024-tf.	
E. CUMMINS, DENTIST, No. 96 Michigan Street,	- South Bend, Indiana. (Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m	jy£RS. C. S. STOVER,	. MILLINER, 129 Michigan Street, South. ^Bend, Indiana. Millinery Goods, Hats, 'Bonnets, Laces, &c. fw^i'he young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	apll?
Do you want a drive ? Go to JgEN COQUILLARD’S LIVERY STJYBLES Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana. o24-2m	
	Q.EORGE HEHR, FASHIONABLE TAILOR, AND GENERAL DEALER IN Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings. No. Ill MICHIGAN BTBEET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up Stans.)	%o24-tf
THE BOND HOUSE Niles, ----- Michigan. A: SlcKlY, Proprietor. Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house, nov 28-% tf.	
	The Students’ Office! ZBLTTJSZr, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc. No, 541 "Waslxingtoii St., SOTTTEC JdJdlTJD, UST1D-apl21
49g
SCHOLASTIC
MEYER LIVINGSTON, . CO "Wasliiiigton Street, [Three Doors West of Blum’s Cigar Store] SOTTTH ESISTZD, IJSTJDULHSTJA.
B^”Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the' Students should give nim. a Call.	alT
105 MICHIGAN St. dec 5-%tf.
SOUTH BEND.
SHIOKEY, PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE!
■Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St, Mary's, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
■A-ttacliecl to tile National Hotel,
Adjacent to the Michigan Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made between Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Depot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
•	myl5-tf.
Michigan Central Railroad.
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1874.
Going	East.	
- Trains.	Leave Chicago. Mail -	-	-	5 00 a m Day Express -	- 8 30 a m Accommodation -	3 35pm Atlantic Express - 5 15 p m Night Express - -9 pm Going Trains.	Leave Detroit. Mail -	-	-	7 00 a m Day Express - - 10 20 am Accommodation -	150 p m Evening Express - 5 40pm Pacific Express - - 10 00 p m	Leave Niles. 9 02am 11 47 a m 7 35pm 855pm 1245 pm West. Leave Niles. 4 05pm 5 20 pm 6 30 am 2 30am 5 00am	Arrive at Detroit 5 45 pm 6 30 pm 8 45 am 3 50 am 8 00 am Arrive at Chicago. 8 05pm 9 00pm 1035 am 630am 8 30 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.		
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 pm, 630 pm, *9 am, *7 pm. Arrive at Niles—8 45 a m, 3 55 pm, 710 pm *9 40 am, *740 pm.
Leave Niles—6 30 a m, 9 20 a m, 510 p m, » 8 a m, 15 p m.
Arrive at South Bend—715 am, 10 am, 555pm, + 840am,+540pm
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Going East, via JViles.
Depart—8 07 am, 638 pm,+9 07 am, +7 07pm.
Arrive—707 am, 942 am, 546pm, 1832 am,+532pm
Going West, via ISTiles.
Depart—310 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m. •
137“ Trains marked thus ♦ 1 run Sunday only.
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Minh, FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Chicago, Ill. G. L. ELLIOTT, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind. B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH,	W. B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent, General Superintendent, Chicago.	Chicago.
A. KLINGEL & SONS, 69 AVasliin^ton Street, SOUTH ZBZEJSTZD, IJSrZDTA-JSrJL.
Keep constantly on hand a complete assortment of
MEN’S AND BOYS’ FINE BOOTS AND SHOES.
OF THE Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and Bracket & Boyden’ Hand and Machine Sewed Goods.
THE
LARGEST STOCK
IN THE CITY.
i
Give us a Call and See the Nobby Styles.
I
1
LADIES,
We would call your attention to our immense stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard makes.	al7
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend Hollows:
GOING HAST.	.
2.35 a. ar. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.12 a. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. ar.; Cleveland, 9.50
11.57 A. ar. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. ar.; Buffalo ‘ 4.20 a. ar.
9.11 p. ar. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. ar.
8.00 p. ar. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,' 2.30 a. ar„ Cleveland 7.05 a. ar., Buffalo 1'10 p. at.
5.44 p. ar. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.18 a. ar. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. ar.
5.24 a. m. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago, 8.30 A. ar.
6.31 p. st. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10. p. ar.
5.44 p. sr. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte;
6.35; Chicago, 9.
8.00 a. sr. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 A. sr , Chicago 11.10.
9.15 a. sr. [No. 71] Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.	-
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific R. K.
Depot, corner Van Duren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, . Grand Pacific Hotel.
Trains.	leave.	arrive.
maha. Leavenworth and
Atchison Express,	10.13 a m	3.30 p m.
Peru Accommodation, 5.00 p m	9.30 a m
Night Express1	10.80 p m	6.15 a m
The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE JStUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 15,1875.	Number 34. .
A Literary Curiosity.
The following lines, which are again going the rounds of the press, it will be seen have been written by different persons, but so carefully are they arranged that one would be apt to suppose they were the production of one author:—
LIFE.
Why all this toil for triumphs of an hour ?	[Young.
Life's a short summer—man is but a flower; [Dr. Johnson. By turns we catch this fatal breath and die—	[Pope.
The cradle and the tomb, alas! so nigh.	[Prior.
To be better far than not to be,	[Sewell.
Though all man’s life may seem a tragedy;	[Spencer.
But light cares speak when mighty griefs are dumb— [Daniel. The bottom is but shallow whence they come.
[Sir Walter Raleigh.
Your fate is but the common fate of all;	[Longfellow.
Unmingled joys here no man befall; •	[Southwell.
Nature to each allots his proper sphere,	[Congreve.
Fortune makes folly her peculiar care;	[Churchill.
Custom does not often reason overrule,	[Rochester.
And throw a cruel sunshine on a fool.	[Armstrong.
Live well—how long or short permit to heaven.	[Milton.
They who forgive most shall be most forgiven. .[Bailey. Sin may be clasped so close we cannot see its face— [French. Vile intercourse where virtue has no place, [Somerville. Then keep each passion down, however dear, [Thompson. Thou pendulum betwixt a smile and a tear;	[Byron.
Her sensual snares let faithless pleasures lay, [Smollet. With craft and skill to ruin and betray.	[Crabbe
Soar not too high to fall, but stoop to rise,	[Massinger.
We masters grow of all that we despise.	[Cowley.
Oh, then, renounce that impious self-esteem; [Beattie. Riches have wings; and grandeur is a dream. [Cowper. Think not ambition wise because ’tis brave,
[Sir Walter Davenant. The paths of glory lead but to the grave.	[Gray.
What is ambition ? ’Tis a glorious cheat.*"	[Willis.
Only a destructive to the brave and great.	[Addison.
What’s all the gaudy glitter of a erown ?	[Dryden.
The way to bliss lies not on beds of down. [Francis Quarles. How long we’ll live, not years but actions tell; [Watkins. That man lives twice who lives the first life welt [Herrick Make then, while yet ye may, your God your friend.
[William Mason. Whom Christians worship, yet not comprehend.	[Hill.
The trust that’s given guard, and to yourself be just; [Dana. For live we how we may, yet die we must. [Shakespeare.
—Type, like other matter, will get into the wrong place now and then. Many errors occur by the omission of a single letter, as where “ the Polish insurgents were defeated with great laughter,” The cutting off of a final letter is quite as bad, as, for instance, “ You cannot fight against the future; Tim is on our side.’’
Alchemy and the Alchemists.
IV.—Distinguished Alchemists.
After this cursory view of the customs and eccentricities of the alchemists, let us consider briefly the labors and theories of the principal leaders of the Hermetic art, as this will give us a better insight into their mode of thinking, and enable us to form a more just estimate of the opinions and endeavors of a class of men who have too often been indiscriminately and inconsiderately branded as vagrant charlatans and ignorant impostors. It is true that among those who professed alchemy there were many knaves and mountebanks, whose sole object was to defraud all whom they could succeed in making their dupes. It is true that there were many, otherwise respectable, who allowed themselves to be carried away by the prevailing whimsical notions of the day, and, who had implicit faith in certain practices now denominated vain and superstitious. It is true that even the best-intentioned and most learned of them adopted and defended theories that later investigations have proved to be false and without foundation in fact. But even all these things, observed more or less in the humble beginnings of all the branches of human knowledge, should in nowise derogate from the good the alchemists have done, and the undoubted benefits they have conferred upon their successors by the collection of facts and preparation of materials which alone enabled the latter to complete the structure of which the former had laid the foundation.
The first of the true alchemists whose works are extant, is Geber, who flourished in the latter half of the eighth and beginning of the ninth century. His principal work, “Summa, Perfectionis ALagisterii in sua Natural which professes to contain all the secrets of the “ great work,” as the art of transmutation was called, shows that the chemical knowledge possessed by the Arabians at that early period was already quite extensive. They were familiar with many acids and salts now in common use, and the processes of preparing sulphuric acid by the distillation of alum, of obtaining nitric acid by the distillation of saltpetre, and aqua regia from nitric acid and sal ammoniac. They knew also how to convert metals into oxides, how to obtain acetic acid from vinegar, and how to prepare artificial salts by means of the acids above mentioned. Many of the apparatuses found in the modem laboratory were in common use by them. They had their pestles and mortars, alembics and aludels, crucibles, furnaces, etc. They were likewise acquainted with the various processes of sublimation, distillation, calcination, cupellation, filtration, crystallization, as well as many others familiar to and fol
500
THE SCHOLASTIC.
lowed with but slight modifications by the chemists even of our own day.	.
Geber’s work, however, although containing much useful and curious knowledge, is so filled with alchemistic gibberish * as to render it in great part worthless. Some have imagined that he was acquainted with the secret of the uniyersaLmedicine, but the words on which they base their supposition:—“ Bring me the six lepers that I may cleanse them,”— are evidently metaphorical and relate to the transmutation of the six then-known metals, silver, copper, lead, iron, tin and mercury, into gold; for the question of an universal medicine was not raised until long afterwards.
< The first chemical theory, properly so-called, of which any account has been handed down to us, is found in the ■ works of Geber, who attributes it to the ancients. It is true that the Greeks long before had several theories concerning the nature and ultimate constitution of matter, but they were philosophical rather than chemical, and accordingly had but few supporters among the alchemists, although Aristotle’s theory of the four elements was the one most generally followed by the mediaeval philosophers and theologians. The theory developed in the works of Geber is briefly as follows:—All metals are composed of two constituents, upon the relative quantity and purity of which the nature of each particular metal depends. The names of these two components are sulphur and mercury, not because they possessed all the properties of sulphur and mercury, but because they were supposed to contain a large proportion of these two substances. What the alchemists really understood by the terms sulphur and mercury is difficult to determine. Notwithstanding, this theory of the two elements, as it is commonly called, however obscure and foundationless it may appear to us, obtained almost universally until near the end of the alchemistical period, when a third element, salt, having a no more defined signification than either of the above two, was admitted. After Geber, who was undoubtedly the greatest of the Arabian alchemists, the study of alchemy was assiduously continued by his countrymen until the twelfth century, when it was taken up by the Europeans, by whom, during the subsequent half-millennium, it was more enthusiastically cultivated than it had been by their Arabian and Moorish predecessors.
Foremost among the alchemists of his age, and justly celebrated for.the variety of his attainments was Roger Bacon, a Franciscan Friar, (A. D. 1214-1292.) He wrote much on the subject of alchemy, but no recipe for making gold can be found in any of his works, although he was generally reputed to have discovered the secret of transmutation.
Albertus Magnus, a contemporary of Roger Bacon, was no less celebrated for his knowledge of alchemy than for •his profound erudition in other branches of science, particularly philosophy and theology. Some passages in his writings would seem to indicate that he was acquainted with a process for making the philosopher’s stone; but if so, posterity has not profited by his discovery. His theory concerning the composition of metals differs slightly from the one held by Geber and his followers. According to Albert,ns Magnus, all metals, in addition to the sulphur and mercury demanded by the Arabian theory, contain
* Dr. Johnson says that this word, originally yeSerisA, was first applied to the language of Geber and his followers by reason of the unintelligible jargon which pervades their works.
also a certain amount of water, to the cold of which they owe their solidity. He fully adopts the doctrine of transmutation, and although he admits that substances which belong to different species cannot be converted one into the other, nevertheless, he claims that all the metals belong to one and the same species, differing from each other only in the relative quantity of. their three constituents, sulphur, water and mercury. Accordingly, those metals possessing several properties in common can be more easily converted into each other than those of which the properties are essentially different. Thus, according to his theory, it were easier to convert silver or copper than lead into gold. The knowledge which Albertus Magnus had of practical chemistry was considerably in advance of that of his Arabian predecessor, Geber, as is evinced by many new chemical processes detailed in his works.
The next most celebrated alchemist after Albertus Magnus was, unquestionably, Raymond Lully, a Franciscan Minorite, (A. D. 1235-1315.) He made many new and important observations, particularly concerning distillation. He was one of the first who made a careful study of the spirit of wine, which he regarded as the real elixir of life, whence its name, ayua Dita ardens. He and his master, Arnold of Villanova, are said to have been familiar with the process of transmutation, and to have frequently shown proof of their skill before a large number of persons. The recital of many writers, and the words of Raymond Lully himself in his “ Last Testament,” would have us believe that he at one operation transmuted fifty thousand pounds of mercury, lead and tin into gold, for Edward II, King of England, or Edward V, according to one method of reckoning the Kings of England. He says: Converti in una Dice in aurum a L miRia pondo argenti-viri, plumbi et stanni.
Basil Valentine, a Benedictine Friar, (A. D. 1399,) is justly celebrated for his many discoveries, and by many regarded as the greatest of the alchemists. He was the first who introduced antimony and many of its compounds into the pharmacopoeia, and from his time mineral medicines began to be extensively used. The speedy adoption of his views by his successors soon caused the Galenic school, which admitted into materia medica only vegetable and animal preparations, to lose ground. From this period dates the earnest research of the alchemists for the elixir of life, the existence of which was rendered more probable than ever, by the extraordinary cures consequent in some instances on the use of some of the newly-discovered mineral compounds. In addition to the two so-called elements of the older alchemists, sulphur and mercury, Basil Valentine mentions a third—salt,—a word of no less undetermined signification than the other two. From combinations of these three elements in various proportion, he claims that not only minerals but all substances whatever are formed. His works, in which are described many important chemical reactions before unknown, gave a new impetus to the study of alchemy, which now happily began to join in with practical chemistry. Indeed, Basil Valentine is generally, and we may say justly, regarded as the founder of chemical analysis.
Scarcely less celebrated than -Basil Valentine was Paracelsus, (A. D. 1494-1541.) He adopted the theory of the three elements held by his predecessor Basil Valentine, but maintained that there was another element common to these three of which they were merely derivative forms or embodiments. This “ essence ” or “ quintessence ” of creation he considered as the only elementary form of matter, and
THE SCHOLASTIC.	503
which is perched on the top of the Fourth of July pole of nay native town. What a sublime spectacle! the surging billows; the vast expanse of ocean, bounded by the mighty orb of heaven, its troubled bosom decked with white sails ; the whizzing sound of the seagulls’ wings as they pass in bold defiance close by, now high in air, again descending to the swelling Waves; then the happy thoughts that spring ■ -	up in one’s bosom at the sight of their paternal shore.
)	But hark! the shrill notes of the trumpet drove me from
|	my sweet contemplation: “ Slide out on that yard-arm and
j	take in sail; make fast that halyard, and take a reef in that
; top-gallant sail.” This was too much for me. I never :	studied navigation; but, being slightly acquainted with
! Greek, and considering my condition, I concluded to interpret his meaning as charitably as possible, and accordingly
' took hold of the nearest rope and slid for the deck. Ere I was decked, the contact of my hands with the rope pro-\ duced a burning sensation, and I was thrown down in the form of a precipitate. Just as we were harboring, I came to my senses, as I think any sensible person should under similar circumstances. Just imagine yourself surrounded by a hundred individuals of all kinds: a burly-looking fellow holding a bottle of sulphuretted hydrogen gas in the vicinity of your nasal organ; another scrubbing your head ’ with a deck-broom, which he occasionally moistened in a prepared conglomeration of all the mixtures that are generally found in an apothecary’s shop—hydrogen, oxide and soft-soap being the principal constituents—whilst a third, to my utter dismay, stood close by with a common ostrich feather, with which he endeavored to introduce into my distended mouth a small portion of the elixir of life. It is needless to remark that under such benign treatment I was enabled to land with the other passengers.
(	I was met at the wharf by many of the most influential
citizens, and likewise the town band; which, notwithstanding the absence of the bass-drummer, the tenor and base
'	jewsharp players, discoursed its soul-stirring strains. Thence
we proceeded to Knockdundherumdharish Park, (which I will soon describe). Here the citizens agreed to meet and confer with the clerk of the weather, and determine if possible the plan of arrangements to be carried out in beating back old Winter from his bold stand. I was appointed plenipotentiary pro. tern, to negotiate in behalf of our congealed town; and, in fine, for the whole ice-ridden, l, snow-bound, frost-bitten community at large. At the ap pointed time, Old Sol shone forth in all his brilliancy, and down came the clerk in his chariot. He was like all other clerks: pale and emaciated, cool, composed, and calculating, but with an eye to business. His story was sad indeed: the panic had passed its desolating hand over the financial affairs of the “bright upper world;” and as a natural consequence, strikes, riots, and all such, were rife. The firemen were accordingly on the strike, and affairs in general were in a deplorable condition. He assured us, however, F' that as navigation was now open, things would undoubtedly assume a more sprightly aspect, and that he would do all in his power for the help of poor humanity, and make the thing as comfortable as possible about the 22d of June.
I am certain that you would like to know a little about Hightonedville. You will be astonished to hear that it is ' built according to the old Grecian style, at least I consider it as such; for it ever brings back to my memory thoughts of school days, when I pursued that all-absorbing study— the Calculus—the graceful curves of which bear such a । striking resemblance to many of the beautiful designs here
found. From this I conclude that the good old Greeks were here at one time. The streets are arranged entirely different from the modem style. Instead of being stretched out in rows and crossing each other at right angles and many others that are not right, they form the graceful figure known to mathematicians as the Spiral of Archimedes. At the pole of the Spiral is situated the park of Knoch-dundherumdharish, which is in the form of the Lemnis-cate of Bernouilli. This is a very romantic place, and far surpasses anything of the kind on the other side of the water. Here at eventide may be heard the enchanting strains of the whippoorwill, the owl’s melodious hoot, and the croaking bullfrog, reclining beneath the spray of the fountain. I might go on to enumerate, but suffice it to say that the whole city is in keeping with the parts above described.
My late visit abroad was one of interest, and my popularity in this country is nothing compared to that which I experienced in the old. In Paris I was a general favorite. The crowd at the Hotel de Ville on one occasion, to hear my disquisition on “Popularity and Popular Men,” was immense. The people were held spell-bound for over two hours, and they confessed they knew not which to admire most, the man or the purity of his tongue.	’
The “ spell ” which has lately come over our country seems to have pushed its influence even to our friends across the sea. I attended a spelling school one evening in London, soon after my arrival there. I was politely invited to contend for the palm, and for six long hours I stood alone on the floor; all the others, becoming wearied out, had retired. I was determined to show them that we study Webster in America. The propounder, now being on the last page of an unabridged, told me that I might retire with honors. I did so, amid rounds of applause. I was now considered a second Webster, and all the hotels in that little world were literally besieged for the next week in search of the man who spelled down all London. I immediately hired all the spare clerks of the city to answer my invitations, letters of cordiality, etc., but I soon found out that this was not a paying business, and sailed for home.
I am now busily engaged in bringing out my new drama “The Popular Man,” after which ! intend to complete my work on “ The Philosophy of the Ancients.” Ere I drop my pen, allow me to extend to you my warmest congratulations for the enviable reputation you have already won; and that your fame be as lasting as the snow on the Alpines is the sincere wish of
Your devoted friend, Tom Collins.
P. S. Don’t be proud of this long letter. A fit of the gout, which has confined me five days, and made me refuse to see company, has given me a little time to trifle; otherwise it would have been very short. Visitors and business would have interrupted, and perhaps you wish they had.
T.C.
—A grocer in a certain town keeps a little brown jug near his cider barrel, and when he wants to do the fair thing by a customer, he mingles some of the contents of the aforesaid jug with the cider. He made a mingle the other day for an old farmer, but got in a good deal of benzine and a very littli cider. About an hour after drinking, the farmer was observed leaning against a fence, and was heard to soliloquize: “It’s too early for sunstroke, and too late to freeze to death, and I guess it’s a touch of the shakin’ ager.”
$04	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Thu Scholastic*
Published evynj Week during Term Time at
NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
On*year......................................Si CTO
Single copies (5 cts.) can be obtained at the Students' Office.
. The Scholastic for the 2nd Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is fifty cents ; besides which all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents iat postage, making in ail sixty cents.
Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
—Each number of Harper's Weekly seems to be more bitter in its attacks upon the Catholics of America. The writer of the unscrupulous attacks signs his articles “Eugene Lawrence,” Who this man is, no one knows, though report has it that he is no other than George W. Curtis, the editor of the paper. Be that as it may,-the author can tell more lies in a given space in the journal than any man born of woman. To show what he can do in the way of downright lying, the paper entitled “ Masters and Slaves,” in the number dated May 1st, is a fair sample. Endeavoring to show that there exists an alliance between the Catholic Church and the Democratic party, he says:
A recent example in Ohio shows how abject is the submission exacted from an American Legislature by its papal masters. A bill was introduced into the Ohio Assembly by a Mr. Geghan, one plain object of which is stated in several Ohio papers to be to prevent the lay members of the Young Men’s Christian Association from performing any religious duties in the prisons, almshouses, and other public institutions, and to confer unusual and exclusive privileges upon the Roman Catholic priests. The project was received with a general cry of disapprobation from the Republican and unsectarian part of the community. * * * » ♦ * But the bill had been prepared under the eye of the Roman Catholic Bishop of Cincinnati; it was en* forced by the threats of the whole Jesuitical press. The Democratic majority in the Ohio Legislature hesitated to adopt so iniquitous a measure and were evidently reluctantly and with shame driven to the utter sacrifice of their American principles. * * * * The threats of the Catholic Tdegraph and Bishop Purcell were successful, and the Ohio Democracy have abandoned forever that principle of unsectarian independence which the founders of the republic planted in the New World.”
A sufficient reply to the above is to quote the law itself It is as follows: “ Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio, that as liberty of conscience is not forfeited by reason of detention in any penal, reformatory or eleemosynary institution, or any house of refuge, workhouse, jail or public asylum in this State, no person in any-such institution shall be compelled to attend religious worship or instruction of a form which is against the dictates of his or her conscience; and it shall be the duty of every director, trustee, superintendent, or other person having in charge any such institution, to furnish ample and equal facilities to all such persons for receiving the ministrations of the authorized clergyman of their own religious denomination or persuasion, under such reasonable rules and regulations as the trustees, directors, managers or superin
tendents shall make; but no such rules shall be so construed as to prevent the clergymen of any denomination from fully administering the rites of his denomination to such inmates; provided, such ministration entail no expense on the public treasury.”
Everybody can see by a glance that by this law—the Geghan law—the Democratic majority of the Legislature of Ohio simply accorded to the unfortunate inmates of public institutions the plain rights of conscience which Protestants have always enjoyed. It abridges none of the rights of non-Catholics, but puts all religions on an equality before the law. Is that not right ? is it not just ? The members of the the Young Men's Christian Society may do as they have done before, save that Catholics are not bound to attend their exercises. And why should they ? Is it more just that Catholics should be bound to do that over which there would be a great hullabaloo if Protestants were forced to do it ?
Mr. Geghan is not a Catholic, though by his name he evidently should be one. Not only Democrats supported the bill but Republicans also, and we hear that one noble Republican member left his sick bed in order to give his vote in favor of liberty of conscience.
The New York Sun can see nothing monstrous or iniquitous about the law, and the Arcadian eloquently denounces the attempts of Harper’s Weekly to revive the old Know-Nothing movement. Catholics demand their rights, and will have their rights, but they will at the same time in nowise infringe upon the rights of others. And demanding their rights, is it not reasonable for them to support that party only which will aid them in securing them?
' The Philopatrians. f .	— —
The Exhibition given by the Philopatrians on the nigh® of the 11th was one of the most enjoyable of the year. The heavy rain which took place just before the entertainment commenced, caused the absence of many visitors from South Bend and the neighborhood; yet some braved the bad weather and attended.
The Exhibition began at half past seven o’clock with s grand opening march by the Band. We do not intend speaking at any length of the music on the occasion, for were we to do so we would find it necessary to repeat much that we have at different times said before. We would however remark that the orchestra was wanting some of its members, which was the cause of its not being effective as on. former occasions. After the overture t< Tanhauser, Mr. Thos. O’Leary sang very creditably “ We Met by Chance.” Mr. O’Leary’s voice improves with each appearance. Mast. J. Nelson declaimed his “ Temperance speech in verse” very well. We might’find fault with him for being deficient in gestures; but we are willing to pardon it-after having seen the ridiculous failure, resulting from the excessive and nauseating use of them in a declamation on the 32d of February last. On that occasion, the young man, who is really a good declaimer failed completely, because his instructor insisted on “ action—action—action.” The address of the evening was read in very good voice by Mast. H. W. Quan, and was greeted with frequent applause. The prologue to the dramatic part of the entertainment was given by Mast. C. J. Whipple, and then after the overture to Fra Diavolo the plays began.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
505
The first was a rather pretty little farce called “ The Runaways.” The characters were well sustained by the young masters, causing much merriment. Master L. Pilliod took the part of Abel Grump, in capital style; E. Washburn and F. E. Ewing did very well as the two runaways, and the same may be said of J. S. Hayes as policeman No. 429.
The best play of the evening was “ The Rightful Heir, or the Blind Boy,” in three acts. Of the acting in this play we have little else to say than praise. There were some of the performers who showed considerable stiffness in parts, but the majority of the actors played with much spirit and ease. Master J. Del Vecchio, took the part of Edmond, the blind boy, in a very simple and affecting way, winning the sympathy of the audience from the start. H. W. Quan surprised the audience by his excellent acting. His personation of the villainous Prince Rudolph was made with much truth. L. Pilliod also gave the pleasure of surprise to his many companions by his good acting, taking the character of the honest Oberto with eclat. C. J. Whipple, (Elvino); W. G. Morris, (Starow); J. French, (Kalig); W. Roelie, (Molino); and G. Budd, (King Stanislaus) all acquitted themselves with much credit. The other young gentlemen: Masters Hoffman, Post, Burger, Washburn, Lonstorf, Nelson, Larkin, R. Pilliod, Rosa, Colton, Sugg, Kleiner, Rice, Walsh, Davis, Dryfoos, Ewing, Van Namee, Reinke, Hayes, Crummey and McGuire, all appeared to advantage. When we remember that this was the first time on which these persons in this play were ever on the stage, we cannot fail to give them much praise for their endeavors.
After “Silver Threads among the Gold” by .the Band, “The Harvest Storm” was played. We did not like the acting of this play as well as we did that of the former; still, Masters Rice (John Garner), Post (Michael Bradford), Colton (Andrew- Bradford), Nelson (Mr. Lynx), Crummey (Dick Darrell), acted-; their roles very well. Masters Larkin (Charlie Cooper), Lonstorf (Nat. Lovel), and Dryfoos (Jack Ray), made good Gypsies; and Kleiner (Barker), Sugg (Nibble), and R. Pilliod (Catchem), were valuable assistants to the detective, Mr. Lynx. Master Quan took the character of Dr. Samuel Lexicon and contributed much to the amusement of the audience while compiling his great dictionary. Masters Davis (Pompey), and Van Namee (Caesar), at the beginning of the play caused much merriment by their personation of negro characters but towards the end they displayed a little to much vivaciousness and interfered in the enjoyment of the play, because they prevented the audience from following the course of the drama. They took their parts well, but we were unable on account of them to keep up with the plot of the play.
The plays over, Rev. Father Colovin, in his pleasing manner, made the closing remarks, thanking the young boys for the enjoyment which they had given the audience during the course of the evening.
The Band then played a Grand March, and the audience went off to bed in good spirits, having spent a very pleasant night in company with the Philopatrians.
—A good wife keeps off wrinkles; a bad one brings them on prematurely.
—Truly great men borrow no lustre from ancient ancestry.
Art Notes.
• —Stephens, the English sculptor is dead.
—The prices paid for the water-colors at Quilter’s sale in London were very high.
—Lysander Thompson has just completed a fine lifesized bust of John McCullough.
—A sale of pictures took place at Leavitt’s gallery, New York, on the 6th and 7th of May. Among the artists who contributed works were J. H. Beard, Ed. FrSre, McGrath, Arthur Parton, Kensett, Thorne, Jerome Thompson, and Wm. Hart. There were also sketches by the late John Hows and a flue example of Thos. Cole.
—Four of the ceilings in the Louvre are to be newly, decorated, under orders from the Government, by four able artists. Duran is to paint “ The Glory of Mary di Medici;” Fleury, “The Glory of French Sculpture;” Giacometti, “ The Gloiy of Rubens and of painting, and Jules Lefevre, “The Glory of Jacques de Brosses and of French Architecture.”
—Miss Sarah Clarke, an American artist, who has lived several year^ in Rome, has made an extensive series of sketches of all the places visited by Dante, as mentioned in his writings. For this purpose she has herself been in every place, and made her drawings upon the spot. Even Paris is included, where Dante spent part of his exile, the sketch representing the street where he lived, in the old unimproved part of the city, near Notre Dame. These sketches are to be bound up in a volume, with covers in mosaic, in the style of the twelfth century. Mrs. Alexander Mitchell of Milwaukee is the purchaser. Miss Clarke is now making another series of the same sketches for Lady Ashburton; and they are also to be etched and published.
—A celebrated painting of the late German artist, Keaul-bach, entitled “The Crusaders before Jerusalem,” was recently imported from Munich for Mr. Bishop, a wealthy retired .merchant of Fifth Avenue. It was invoiced at the .Custom House by Hermann Brothers, brokers, as worth about $6,500, but was afterward advanced nine and a half per cent, by Mr. Sturges, the Assistant Appraiser. An advance to ten per cent, would have made the owner of the painting liable to a penalty of twenty per cent, of its value. Special Treasury Agent Chalker learned that the painting had cost $10,000, and consequently had been undervalued and appraised too low. The facts have been reported to the Collector, and Mr. Sturges has been ordered to explain his appraisement. The painting hangs in Mr. Sturges’s art gallery, and may be forfeited to the Government. Mr. Bishop had nothing to do with the undervaluation, as he bought the picture while in Europe, to be delivered to him here.
—The story of the wonderful child painter, Frederic van der Kerkhove, that has been the talk of Brussels for some months past, has turned out to be a complete deception. An inquiiy has been made into the whole affair, and it has been found that the paintings exhibited at the Cercle Artis-tique at Brussels are really the work of the father, an artist of mediocre merit, and not of the poor child, who does not seem to have exhibited any remarkable artistic talent during his short life. M. van der Kerkhove pire even went so far as to offer to the State a certain number of the paintings attributed to his son. A contract of donation was being prepared when the inquiry above mentioned made known the true state of affairs. Under these circumstances the Belgian Minister of the Interior begged M. van der Kerkhove to be so kind as to withdraw his gift. The paintings in question are now being exhibited at Ghent, where they create much the same sensation as they did at Antwerp and Brussels. To the French journal L'Art chiefly belongs the merit of having thrown light on this curious mystification. The editor of the Brussels Journal des Beaux Arts still maintains the integrity of the story, and has entered on a long correspondence on the subject.
506
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Musical Notes.
—Arabella Goddard will visit the United States in September.
—Herr Leopold Jansa, the violinist, died last month in Vienna, aged 80.
—Eichberg, of Boston, is writing a comic opera called “ Sir Marmaduke.”
—Mme. Lucca receives 3,000 fr. for singing the part of Zdika in “L’Africaine.”
—Mme. la Baronne de Meistre’s Stabat Maier was sung with great success in Nice.
—The Arcadian does not speak very flatteringly of Mohalbi’s first appearance.	#
—Mde. Vanden Henvel, better known as Caroline Duprez, a singer of note, died lately in Paris.
—Dr. Von Bulow, the pianist, is preparing to come to America. He is said to be a real “piano-smasher.”
—From the Arcadian we learn that a conservatory of music, called the “Arion,” has been opened in Brooklyn.
—The Schleswick-Holstein Musical Festival will take place this year at Kiel, on the 4th and 5th of July. Prof. Joachim will be the conductor.
—Gabgnani's Messenger says there is some question of an early departure for the United States of M. Arban and his orchestra, to give at New York a series of concerts under the direction of the Kiralfy Brothers.
—We congratulate our neighbors of St. Joseph’s Church, Mishawaka, on the favorable notice given in the May number of the Cecilia by Prof. Singenberger, of their zeal aud energy in carrying out the principles of the Cecilia Society. The singing of the children is beautiful, owing, to a great extent, to the untiring zeal and energy of the teacher, Mr. Weinmann. The Society numbers fifty men, besides twenty choir members. Rev. Father (Echtering may well be proud to see his congregation held up as a model for larger churches with more abundant means but less good will. Some of the Mishawaka choir members paid a visit to Notre Dame on Ascension Day, and assisted at High Mass here. As they were about to take wing on their homeward flight they were treated to “Ye Merry Birds ” by the University Cornet Band.
—The New York Tribune gives the following description of the music at the ceremony of investing Cardinal McCloskey with the beretta: The musical programme had beeu carefully selected by Gustavus Schmitz, the organist of the cathedral. The band consisted of fifteen stringed instruments. When the long procession of priests entered from the sacristy, the March of the Priests, from Mendelssohn’s “Athalie,” was rendered. During the celebration of the Solemn Pontifical Mass the choir performed the Missa Solemnis No. 2, in D minor, by Cherubini. After the Mass came the Te Deum composed for the occasion and dedicated to Cardinal McCloskey by Gustavus Schmitz: Part I.—Chorus and solo quartet Part II.—Soprano solo and chorus. Part HI.—Chorus. The solo singers were Mrs. Gross and Madame Bredelli, soprano; Madame Ellen-reich, alto; H. Berein, tenor; Mr. Urchs, basso, and Mr. Sohst, baritone.
—We have received from Jolin Church & Co., the publishers, copies of the “Song Premium” and the “Classic Premium.” The publishers of “{Church’s Musical Vi- itor,” recognizing the fact that musical people are more pleased with good music than with chromos indifferently made, have published three volumes of music, entitled the “ Soug Premium,” the “Piano Premium,” and the “Classic Premium,” and one of these they will give to every subscriber to the journal, allowing him his choice. We have not received the “ Piano Premium,” but have the the other two, and we can say that the music is really excellent. More especially may we praise the judicious selections in the “ Classic Premium.” The “ Song Premium,” is a collection of popular songs, by many first-class composers. The “Piano Premium,” is for those who prefer instiumental music. This book contains thirteen pieces of music, by Strauss, Kinkel and others. The “Classic Premium,” is for advanced players, being a fine selection of music by
such composers as Chopin, Beethoven, Mozart, Wagner, etc. Either of these volumes is certainly alone worth several times the price asked for the Visitor, to say nothing of the regular monthly visits of the music magazine itself. Choice of the above books, elegantly bound in cloth, will be sent to every subscriber to the Visitor. Subscription price of the Visitor is §1.50 a year. The publishers will send specimen copy, with list of contents of Premium Volumes, on receipt of one stamp. Address John Church & Co., Cincinnati, O.
Literature.
—Among Mr. Murray’s other announcements are “ The Life of Jonathan Swift,” by Mr. John Forster.
—The publication of the fifth volume of M. P. Lanfrey’s “ History of Napoleon I,” is promised by the end of the month.
—A new work on Labuan, Sarawak, and Borneo, is in preparation, the joint production of Governor Pope Hennessy and Mr. B. A. Cody.
—Victor Hugo is about to spend a fortnight in Guernsey-for the purpose of completing a volume of poetry entitled “ Les Francs et les Germains.”
—A French translation, in verse, of Goethe’s “ Faust ” is about to appear, from the pen of M. Marc-Monnier, the witty author of the “Theatre des Marionettes.”
—“ Aristophanes’ Apology, including a Transcript from Euripides; being the Last Adventure of Balaustion,” is the title of the new poem by Robert Browning.
—Mr. Darwin has finished his work, of which we have before spoken, on “Insectivorous Plants,” and the manuscript is in the printer’s hands. Mr. Murray is Mr. Darwin’s publisher. .
—A metrical translation will shortly be published of the poem entitled “ The Demon,” one of the chief productions of the celebrated Russian poet Lermontof, w’ho might have done so much had he not, like Pushkin and Koltsof, died so young.
—Mme. Maria Ehn, a lady novelist of Vienna, author of “Maximilian and Giselle” and other works, has just died from wounds inflicted on herself in the park of Schcen-brunn during a moment of mental derangement. Sue was only 26 years of age, and was much esteemed.
—Under the editorship of Madame George Sand, M. Laisnel de la Salle has issued two volumes of legends— beliefs current in the centre of France—which embody the researches of his father in the history, manners, and thoughts of the peasants of La Vendee and Berri.
—Several articles of importance, contributed to the Athenaeum by the late Mr. Dilke, have been for some time difficult, to obtain, the numbers containing them being out of print. They have now been collected in a volume, under the title of “Papers of a Critic,” and Sir C. W. Dilke, M. P., has prefixed a biographical sketch of his grandfather, in which several letters from Keats, Hood, Barry Cornwall, and others of Mr. Dilke’s friends, will be for. the first time given to the world. The volume will be published by Mr. Murray.
—The first Icelandic work printed in the United States is a pamphlet upon Alaska containing the report of Messrs. John Olafsson, Olaf Olafsson, aud Paul Bjorusson, who visited that territory last autumn, and now convey to their countrymen the information they gathered. This information is quite full in regard alike to the land, the rivers, the seaports, climate, products, and the advantages which Icelanders may expect to gain from emigration; and though we have not examined it minutely, we have no doubt it is perfectly accurate. It was printed at the Government printing-office in Washington, the Icelandic type having been cast for the purpose in this city. Mr. John Olafsson is about to return to Iceland with a view of laying the subject personally before the people; and we trust he may be successful in inducing a considerable emigration to the United States.—AC V. Sun.
—A deputation of authors waited on Mr. Disraeli on the 10th, to make representations and obtain his views in re-
' THE SCHOLASTIC.
507
gard to international copyright. The deputation consisted -of Messrs. Blanchard Jerrold, Tom Taylor, Charles Reade, Charles Dickens, G. A. Sala, Charles McKay, Miss Braddon, Mrs. Wood, and many other well-known literary persons. Mr. Edward Jenkins, member of Parliament for Dundee, and author of “ Ginx’s Baby,” addressed Mr. Disraeli on the part of the deputation. He pointed to the appropriation and mutilation of the works of British authors by the book publishers of the United States, and asked if some remedy could not be found for the grievance.
Mr. Disraeli replied that the subject had already come before the Government on the question whether a revision of the copyright law in regard to dramas was desirable. The Government would give the subject full attention and strive to remove the annoyances and vexations now existing; but it must have time to consider what method to adopt. He was of opinion that a Royal Commission would be better than a committee of the House of Commons .because it would be more.likely to be well acquainted with the subject.
Scientific Notes.
—M. Clermont-Ganneau has been named a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor, for the discovery of the Moabite Stone and his other services to archaeology.
—M. Michel, a Frenchman, proposes the application of the principle of a bell rung by a change in the thermometer to the discovery of that change in the temperature of the water which indicates the proximity of an iceberg to navigators of the Atlantic.
—A French Christian Brother, returning from a mission to the Caspian Sea, brought with him a plant said to be an infallible remedy for scurvy. Dr. Demeaux has presented a report on its merits to the Academy of Sciences, from which it appears that the plant can be acclimatized in Europe and will prove of the greatest value.
—The bones of a whale were discovered early in the Winter, in Westland, near Fox’s township, New Zealand, about five miles inland, and at a height of five hundred feet above the level of the sea, enclosed in a deposit of blue lias, abounding with shells and other indications of an ancient sea-beach or sea-bottom. In recording the discovery, the Auckland Herald says that the bones “ are in a wonderful state of preservation and unpetrified, though they must have been in the situation where they were found for many thousands, it may be millions of years.”
—A discovery of some interest has just been made in the island of Dominica. Drs. Freeland and Nicholls, Capt. Gardiner, and Mr. Watt, exploring the steep and forest-covered mountain behind the town of Roseau, came upon a boiling, lake about 2,500 feet above the sea level, and two miles in circumference. When the wind cleared away for a moment the clouds of sulphurous steam w’ith which the lake was covered, a mound of water was seen ten feet higher than the general level, and caused by violent ebullition. The margin of the lake consisted of beds of sulphur, and its overflowing found exit by a waterfall of great height.
—A series of highly-interesting and successful experiments with a new explosive, have, it appears, been recently made in Wales, nearly 500 civil engineers and others interested in mining operations being present. Among the special advantages claimed to be possessed by this new powder, as compared with other kinds now in use, and which these experiments seem to have demonstrated, are that its explosive force is exceptionally great; that it throws off only a very small quantity of smoke or injurious gas; and that, together with these qualities, it is at the same time quite as safe for use as any ordinary powder, not being liable to explode by increased temperature, exposure to the sun, percussion, or self-ignition.
—The longevity of toads is again under discussion, owing to a discovery made near Orsay. In digging up a garden some workmen unearthed two terra-cotta vases, which they at first supposed to contain treasure. On breaking them, however, two live toads were found, clad in green velvet. This strange attire showed that they must
be at least 200 years old, as an ancient treatise on magic and dsemonology mentions that at the beginning of the seventeenth century, sorcerers dressed up toads in this manner for the achievement of certain charms. The same treatise tells the fate of an unlucky citizen of Soissons, who baptised a toad, which he had gaily caparisoned for the ceremony, and was burnt alive for the sacrilege.
—The English steamer Bessemer, which was built to aunihilate sea-sickness by means of a swinging saloon, has had another trial recently with alarge party of distinguished spectators on board. The vessel ran from Dover to Calais in one hour and thirty minutes, not an alarming rate of speed, but did not exhibit the good qualities of the saloon, which is said to be “ unfinished.” Two months since it was sufficiently finished to be pronounced a success “when it was properly arranged,” but even then it was stated it shared the motion of the ship, a view also shared by The Sun. It seems singular that on a trial trip of this magnitude the saloon should not have been in order, so as to set at rest all doubts as to its ultimate value and effiiciency.
—The Indian Commission on Snake-Poisons has reported that the Indian cobra is from six to thirteen times more poisonous than the snakes of Australia, and, in fact, a large proportion of the bites of the two kinds of Australian snakes with which the Commissioners experimented were, under the usuals conditions, altogether ineffective. They observe that it is easy to understand how a supposed antidote or remdey might gain temporary recognition, an effective poisoning by the bite of an Australian snake being rather the exception than the rule. In fact, the result of the experiments made by the Commissioners on dogs, says the report, goes to show that the intravenous injection of ammonia after snake-bite, possesses no antidotal or remedial power, but, on the contrary, probably by promoting the absorption of the poison, rather expedites than retards the tendency to death.
—Both the Indian and St. Lucie rivers are filled with a coarse, rank grass, which takes root at a depth of twenty or thirty feet and rises to the surface. It is called menatee grass, because it is eaten by the wonderful menatee or sea cow. Florida is the only spot on the North American continent where this animal is found. It is amphibious and herbiverous, and weighs from 800 to 2,000 pounds. It suckles its young, and has a head like a seal, a nose like a cow, flippers like a sea lion, and a tail like a whale. Such is the description given by those who have seen it. Of immense strength, when at bay it can knock a boat to pieces. The body is powerfully built. The bones are like iron, and the ribs are short, thick and heavy, and as white as ivory. The menatee is very shy. Once in a while one is shot Several have been netted. One was captured a year ago and taken to Savannah alive, but it died within a few months. The meat is eaten by the people living on the Upper Indian river, and is said to be sweet and palatable. Indians are fond of it.—Florida Letter to H. Y. Sun.
Big Invention.
Lloyd, the famous map man, who made all the maps for General Grant and the Union Army, certificates of which he published, has just invented a way of getting a reliefplate from steel so as to print Lloyd’s Map of the American - -Continent—showing from ocean to ocean—on one entire sheet of bank-note paper, 40x50inches large, on a lightning press, and colored, sized and varnished so as to stand washing and mailing, for 30 cents, and plain for tourists 25 cents, or mounted with rollers ready for the wall, and delivered post-paid anywhere in the world, on receipt of 50. cents. This map shows the whole United States and Territories in a group, from surveys to 1875, with a million places on it, such as towns, cities, villages, mountains, lakes, rivers, streams, gold mines, railway stations, etc. This . map should be in every house. Send price to the Lloyd Map Company, Philadelphia, and you will get a copy by. return mail.
—Begin nothing of which you have not well considered * > the end.	• ■ '
£08
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—We were pleased to see Rev. Father O’Mahony at the Philopatrian Exhibition. •
—Mrs. Riopelle, of Detroit, who is visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, was at the Philopatrian Exhibition.
—Rev. D. J. Spillard left us on Monday last. Father S. goes first to Elgin, where he will attend the wedding of his brother Jerry, after which he will return to Austin.
—Bro. Peter continues to write up “ Astronomy ” in excellent style for the Watertown Republican. Bro. Peter writes his articles in a popular style, so that they can be read with profit by those who have not been educated in the sciences. We see that the papers in the Northwest quote from the Republican much that Bro. Peter writes.
—By a late number of the Leavenworth Commercial we see that our respected young friend, Mr. J. A. Spillard, of this city, had a narrow escape from death. He, in company with another gentleman from Chicago, a Baptist clergyman, and three ladies, were crossing the Missouri on a “ bus ” on the ice, when within six rods of the shore at Leavenworth the ice broke and the passengers were precipitated into the roaring flood. At this point the Missouri runs at its centre at the rate of twenty miles an hour. The men first got out. Mr. Spillard finding himself on the ice, when he recovered his self-possession, engagedin pulling out the terrified and screaming women. We rejoice at our friend’s lucky but fearful escape; we should indeed shudder had he met the awful fate he so narrowly escaped. His many friends in Elgin will rejoice at his escape, and need not be told that he did well and worked actively in . rescuing his fellow-passengers.—Elgin Times.
—Charlie Hutchings, of’72, who is with Decastro & Donner, Sugar Refiners, North Second & River Streets, Brooklyn, N. Y., writes:
Editor of N. D. Scholastic :—Dear Sir : Being an old student of Notre Dame, I am naturally interested in the -welfare, and all that is concerned in and about Notre Dame. One cannot express the eagerness with which your little paper is looked for by an old student who has always taken pride in the prosperity of his Alma Hater. Thinking the following items may not prove uninteresting among your personals, I have taken the liberty of sending you them:
k Robt. Pinkerton, of Chicago, is New York Agent of his ' father’s Detective Agency. John Heine, of Reading, Pa., was admitted to the Bar lately, and is Clerk of the Common Council of that city; and Frank Obert, of the same city, is - doing well with his father in the Union Boiler Works.
I was surprised to see the following personal in a prominent New York paper: “New York Herald, May 1,1875. Mr. P. Cochrane, of Chicago, is spoken of as the next Private Secretary to Jay Gould. Mr. Cochrane bears an unblemished reputation among the brokers of his city, and is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame, Ind.”
Hoping you will spare space for these few items, I remain, dear sir yours	C. Hutchings.
Local Items.
.	—“ Put it to your ear.”
■ ■-——Ben is on the war-path.
—All are preparing for Examination.
—The singing every evening is very good.
—37 days and then the Commencement Day.
—Extra rec. Monday afternoon for two hours.
—The Boat-Club made a sailboat out of the Nina.
—Straw hats are pretty generally worn by the Students.
—The champion games of baseball commenced Wednesday.
_,	—The Juniors have a back-stop to their principal base-~ ball ground.
—The Junior store was broken into and robbed last Tuesday evening.
—The hill of dirt on the east side of the old Church has been removed.
—Trees have been set out around the east end of St. Joseph’s Lake.
—The late rain has greatly improved the looks of the grounds around the College.
—We understand that the Band are going to begin their series of serenades soon.	.
—Some of the Socief ies have already appointed their representatives for Society Day.	•
—All of our musicians must have been a little under the weather at the last Exhibition.
—Lately handball has been played every evening when the weather permitted after supper.
—~We are happy to announce to the many friends of J. Cullen that he is recovering rapidly.
—Our friend John says that the rainbow last Tuesday evening was the most beautiful he ever saw.
—Father Louage deserves thanks for improving the looks of the hill north of the Botanical Garden.
—The programme of last Tuesday evening was not car- -ried out in full on account of Prof. Paul’s absence.
—Owing to the big rain-storm there were only a few of the many invited parties at the Philopatrian Entertainment.
—Wonderful J Prof. Lyons missed the train to Chicago on the morning of the 5th. Something is surely going to happen.
—“ Do you think you’ll get through ? ” “I know I won’t,” is the sum and substance of the talk of the Commercial boys when two or three of them get together.
—A match game of baseball between the Star of the East and Juanita clubs was played on the 10th inst., which resulted in favor of the Juanitas by a score of 24 to 13.
—A devoted friend of ours has lately received an Italian legacy, consisting chieflv of real estate, situated in the crater of Mount Vesuvius. The “ crater ” feels good over it.
—Bro. Alfred and his masons are hard at work putting up the Curran house. Under the energetic and efficient superintendence of Bro. Alfred the work cannot fail being everything that can be desired.
—Our friend John attempted to catch a baseball the other day—but has since come to the conclusion that it is far pleasanter to see some one else catch one. He says he would as soon have a person throw him a rock as a baseball.
—Saturday last, Feast of St. Michael, was a merry day for the Minims. A banquet was given to them, and, as a matter of course, they did full justice to it. Sincere thanks are returned to the good Sisters for kind services rendered on the occasion.
—Bro. Alban will, in a week or so, have twelve of the finest hanging-baskets ever seen at Notre Dame. In each basket are are to be six choice plants. We’ are glad to see that the Seniors have at last taken an interest in the decoration of their Study Hall.
—Much third class mail-matter—especially papers— never reaches its destination, either because it is not fully prepaid, or-that it contains writing contrary to law. A few careless or ignorant postmasters give much annoyance at the delivery office by mailing such matter.
—It seems that a person objects to the phrase the “ Address of the Evening” on the Philopatrians’programme. He says he would like to hear the evening make an address. Dear me! did he ever hear of the “Oration of the Day,” or the “ Speech of the Night,” or the “ Music of the Occasion” ? Some persons are great critics.
—The lecture of Rev. W. O’Mahony, at St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, was postponed on account of the stormy weather. However, as there were some persons present, the Rev. D. J.-Spillard, formerly pastor of South Bend, addressed his former parishioners a most interesting lecture which was listened to with rapt attention.
—At the 31st regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society, held May 12, an unanimous vote of thanks was tendered to Bros. Marcellinus, Leander, Basil, Leopold, Celestine, Wilfred, John Climacus, Profs. J. F. Edwards, T. E. Howard, Messrs. John H. Gillespie, G.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
509
Roulhac, J, P. McHugh and the’Editor of The Scholastic for valuable services rendered in preparing for the Exhibition given May 11th.
—The Gth regular meeting of the Notre Dame Scientific Association was held on Sunday evening, May 6tb, Rev. J. A. Zahm presiding. Mr. G. M. Kelley was elected a member of the Association. The lecture by R. W. Staley on “ Carbon,” was a perfect-little gem, and well worthy the special compliment paid it by the Rev. President. We have been accustomed to look on the diamond as the only brilliant form of carbon, but Mr. Staley rendered the various forms brilliant and attractive by the pleasing manner in which he treated them. The Secretary was instructed to write to Rev. Father Carrier, Hon. J. M. Geain and other prominent members of the Association, requesting them to send a lecture to be read before the Society.
—A. statement is going the rounds of the press, to the effect that the Michigan Central and Great Western Railways are gradually withdrawing the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars from and to Rochester, their terminus for many years, and that from and after Oct. 1st, next, they will only run from and to Suspension Bridge. This statement is incorrect, and the public who have so liberally patronized this line for many years, are respectfully informed that no change is contemplated in the arrangement of the Pullman Cars, and they will run to and from Rochester as heretofore; and further, that whatever may be said or published by rival routes to the contrary, it is the intention of the management to maintain the popularity and comfort by which this line has acquired its title to “ the favorite route.”
—The new organ is now'on its way to Notre Dame, and will soon be here. Prior to shipping it, Messrs. Derrick & Felge-maker, the makers, gave a grand Organ Recital and Exhibition, with Alois F. L< jeal as organist. The programme was as follows: 1, Overture, Suppe; 2, Communion, Baptiste; 3, Adagio Contabile, Haydn; 4, Home, Sweet Home, varie, Lejeal; 5, Grand Ofiertoire, Lefebure Wdy; 6, Adagio from Sonata Pathetique, Beethoven; 1, Offertoire, Baptiste; 8, Improvisation; 9, Traeumerei, Schumann; 10, Wedding March, Hfendelssohn. A large audience attended the “ Recital,” and were without exception astonished and delighted with the power and variety of the organ. We hope that Mr. Lejeal, the organist, will come to Notre Dame with the organ, and when it is put up we may have a grand Recital with Mr. Lejeal and our two organists as players.
—The following is the score of the first game of the championship series, played on May 12th, between the Star of the East and Excelsior nines:
.	Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berrlnger, J. Brown, W. Ball, L. Berkey, J. Caren, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J.-Campbell, J. Cullen, T. Carroll, W. Canavan, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, J. Flaherty, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, G. Hoyt, J. Hogan, T. Hansard, W. Hughes, A. Hertzog, J. Kennedy, 3. Kennedy. J. Kopf, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, J. F. Larkin, P. Lawrence, J. Logsdon, E. Me Fharlin, W. McGavin, R. Maas, E. McLaughlin, R. Maas, E.Maas, F.Montgomery, T.Murphy, J.Mathews, Peter Mat-more, Patrick Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan, E. Marshall, J. Ney, A O’Brien, T. O’Leary, C. Otto, J. O’Connell, G. Roulhac, J. Retz, W. Ryan, E. Ratigan, J. Rudge, M.Regan, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, W. Schultheis, P. Shaul, J. Soule, J. Thornton, F. Wilhelm, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Buecker, A. Bergck, G. Budd, J. Buckels, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, J. Crummey, J. Colton, J. Dore, j. Del Vecchio, R. Downey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, P. Fitzpatrick, G. J. Frauenknecht, J. French, F. Frazee, J. T. Foley, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, E. D. Gleason, F. Hoffman, J. 8. Hayes, C. Hake, H. Harvey, C. H. Hitchcock, J. P. Kurtz, H.Korty, ALeitelt, J. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, J. Lynch, R. McGrath, H. McGuire, T. Monahan, W. G. Morris, M. J. Murphy, W. P. Nelson, D. Nelson, J. Nelson, G. Nester, C. R. Post, H. W. Quan, E. F. Riopelle, A. Reinke, L. Smith, J. A. Smith, W. Smith, A. Schmidt, T. J. Solon, N. Vanamee, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, j. E. Wood, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, F. Rollin, G. R. Serrill, E. Hall, F. Pilliod, O. Ludwig, J. K. Jones.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Colly Clarke, Samuel Goldsberry, Clement Moody, Francis Carlin, Michael McAuliffe, N. Cunningham, John O’Meara, J. Duffield, Otto Lindberg, Joseph Carrer, Willie Campbell, Willie Coolbaugh, Louis Goldsmith, Charlie Bushey, Harry Ordway, Harley McDonald, Hugh Colton.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MAY 13.
MODERN LANGUAGES AND PINE ARTS.
STAR OF THE EAST.
O.
EXCELSIORS.
O.
R.
Caren, 1. f.... Marks, s. s... Monahan, r. f. Lonstorf, 1 b. Ball, c. f.... Soule,3 b.... Devoto, c.... Ratigan, 2 b.. Ryan, p.......
Total....
3
3
3 1
3
4 5
4
3
3
5
3
5
1
1 0
2
27,23
Hayes, e.... Frazee, p.... Perea,3 b.... Minton,! b.. Gross, s. s... Downey, 1. f. Kelley, c. f.. Murphy, 2 b. Pilliod, r. f..
Total...
SYNOPSIS OF INNINGS.
Star of the East
Excelsiors.
2 3
4
3 3
3 3
1 5
2 2
0 1
0 1
1 2 0
27 9
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
0	2	5	2	2	3	6	0	3
0	Q	0 jo		3	2	0	2	2
9
Passed balls—Devoto.. 1; Hayes, 7. . Umpire—E.’G. Graves of Juanita B. B. 0. Scorers—T. Hansard and J. McHugh.
The best catch—J. Minton.
Law—P. H. Skahill, J. Crummey, E. Seibert.
Medicine—E. McPharlin, G. Crummey, J. O’Connell.
Civil Engineering—C. M. Proctor.
German—G. Roulhac, A. Schmidt; A. O’Brien, C. Whipple, J. Golsen, C. Welty, W. Stichnoth, J. Soule, J. Connolly, A. Leitelt, W. Ball, H. McGuire, J. Wood, M. Katzaur, M. Kramer, P. Shaul, J. Kurtz, G. McNulty, C. Robertson, H. Korty, E. Gramling, C. Larkin, F. Hoffman, C. Walsh, J. Berringer, R. Norris, J. Leitelt, E. Ratigan, W. Roelle, F. McGrath, E. McPharlin, J. Lyons, C. Leonhardt, R. McGrath, M. Egan, T. McNamara, H. Sickel, W. Byrne, F. Carlin, J. Kennedy, R. Golsen, E. Washburn.
French—W. Morris, G. Gross, J. Minton, L. Best, J. Del Vecchio, F. Smyth, V. McKinnon, J. F. O’Connell.	'
Drawing—W. Schultheis, J. Del Vecchio, J. Kurtz, J. Carrer, E. Graves, L. Busch, R. McGrath, P. Lawrence, A. Schmidt, A. Leitelt, E. Gramling, J. Lambin, J. Cullen, C. Proctor, G. Sugg, E. Sugg, G. Frauenknecht, E. Cortney, R. Golsen, E. Raymond.
Telegraphy—J. Wood, W. Stout, W. Hughes, J. McIntyre, T. Carroll, T. Logan, R. Norris, J. Retz.
Music—G. Hoyt. H. Cassidy, W. Ball, 3. Serrill, W. Schultheis, C. Otto, W. Nelson, F. Schlink, J. Campbell, A. Reinke, E. Sugg, G. Sugg, A. Lonstorf, C. Leonhardt, T. O’Leary, C. Clarke, M. Clarke, T. Quinn, J. Thornton, F. Klaner, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, G. Nester, W. Stichtenoth, W. Morris, C. Robertson, H. Sickel, G. Gross, N. Regan, J. Lynch, J. Dryfoos, R. Maas, F. Hollman, M. Murphy, J. Del Vecchio, F. McGrath, A. Schmidt, G. Roulhae, 0. Ludwig, J. Lyons, C. W. Welty, W. Byrne, J. McHugh, N. Watson, J. Berringer, L. Pilliod, A. Pilliod, E. Maas.
Band—G. Roulhac, T. O’Leary, G. Crummey, T. Logan, H. Hunt, J. Kennedy, T. Cochrane, J. Campbell, E. Maas.
minim: department.
Francis Campau, Albert Bushey, Hugh Colton, Peter Nelson, Willie Lindsay, Harry Ordway, Willie Cash, Willie Coolbaugh, Sylvester Bushey, Willie Van Pelt, Charlie Bushey.
List of Excellence.
—Sincerity is the bases of every manly virtue.
—By learning to obey you will know how to command?
—A fault is made worse by endeavoring to conceal it.
—A clear conscience fears no accusation; a guilty one needs no accusor.
[The Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during five consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—Director of Studies.]
General Geometry and Calculus—F. B. Devoto.

<510
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Railroais and. Steamboats.
One of the most successful inventions which keeps pace in importance with the art of printing is the steam-engine. It is applied to the uses of travel and commerce, on railroads and steamboats, and has.brought about a great change, one whi ch has found its opponents as well as its defenders.
Many persons, such as drivers, inn-keepers, etc., have increased their occupation on account of the better accommodations afforded by railroads and steamboats. Smaller towns have either become desolate or increased very quickly; while larger ones grow with great rapidity. In these latter a population is rushing to and fro, not having _the least interest in the welfare of the city, speculating for money, and from this arises the sad state of many of our cities.
The quickness of travel lessens the enjoyment and information which should be desired from that source. The various objects on the route flit by before we have time to make out what they are, whereas when travelling on foot or in a coach we have plenty of time to enjoy the scenery and note down the occurrences of the route.
But the steam-engine is not without its enormous advantages. Commerce and trade are benefited by the quickness of transportation. “ Time is money.” The peculiar products of different places find new markets which they would not find if the only means of transportation were by wagons. For instance, the fruits which grow down South by the time they would reach the various cities in the North would not be in a very good condition. Agriculture also is benefited; the farmer is not obliged to sell his products at the nearest market. He can send them to large cities, where he can get higher prices, and consequently he can increase his wealth, find new modes of cultivating the land, buy new machinery and raise fine stock. Famine, once so common, can now be avoided by sending the surplus of one country to feed another.
General culture is spread by the facility of communication, and anyone may see more in a day than otherwise in a week. In times of war a more speedy assemblage of troops takes place, and hence a speedy decision and a shortening of the sufferings produced by war. The Italian campaign of 1859, the Prussian and Austrian campaign of 1866, and even our own civil war would have quite different results if these modern improvements had not been brought into use.
Which are the greater, the advantages or the disadvantages? What would be the condition of our own country with its great lakes and rivers, and the wide extent of territory, had not the steam-engine been invented ? God brings about great changes in the affairs of men when they are most needed. Look at the map of Europe, and that of America, and you will see that there was a design in reserving the great inventions of the steam-engine and telegraph until the discovery of the western continent should render them necessary.	Dion.
Books.
The world is full of books to-day, but not of books that are worth the reading. For a young person entering a large library, where the books are piled tier upon tier, from the floor up to the ceiling, hiding the walls and darkening the windows, it seems to him an almost endless task to wade through and digest the huge volumes—some fresh from the printer, others covered with the accumulated dust of years. However, a few months of hard reading and research in the library teach him that one fourth of the books were never intended to be read, that another fourth had better be in ashes than in the form of books; and still another fourth are too prosy and too much out of date either to interest or instruct the reader.
The selections often made seem to be about as foolish as for a person to go into a large orchard where the trees are laden with golden fruit stoop to pick up that which has fallen to the ground, rotten at the core and stung by insects, instead of reaching up and taking off that which is sound and healthy. It takes us a long time to learn that books are not always infallible, and that the authors were only common mortals after all, who wrote that
they might keep starvation from their doors, or roll in luxury, rather than to please or instruct us.
Most of us have very little time to read, and no time to spend on trashy books, or even tolerably good works; for there is enough of the very best reading to occupy our time. It looks like folly to fritter one’s time on the commonest authors, while many of the best are on the shelves idle, waiting for their time, which too often never comes on many of our lists.
The passion for the inferior class of books is as injurious if unrestrained, as any other passion, and it is our duty to control it and let our reason guide us. Books are goods only as they exert a healthful influence over our minds, and great care is necessary to distinguish between the good and the bad. The happiness of many families has been blasted by careless parents allowing impure or low-toned books into the family circle.	E. L. R.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
—Mrs. Riopelle, of Detroit, and Mrs. Simpson, are spending a few days at the Academy.
—The May instructions are unusually beautiful. Those of Friday, the 7th, and Monday, the 10th, were particularly admired by everyone.
—On the Festival of the Ascension, little Carrie and Mamie Hughes made their First Communion. Their mother, Mrs. Hughes of Chicago, had the great happiness of being present on this occasion so important to her dear little ones.
—Rev. Father Spillard, C. S. C., has preached several times at St. Mary’s during the week. He sang the High Mass of Ascension Day. In the afternoon Rev. Father Vagnier gave the “Five Scapulars” to ten young girls of the Junior Department.
—The 7th inst. was the anniversary of the fourteenth birthday of a dear little Junior. Among other gifts, she received several valuable books. The little recipient was delighted with them, as was also several of her companions, for they provided a feast best enjoyed when most widely shared.
—On Tuesday the French and German Classes paid a visit to Notre Dame, for the purpose of seeing the New Sanctuary Lamp. The visit was made by invitation of Very Rev. Father General, who spared no pains to render it interesting, and the young ladies returned to St. Mary’s charmed with the Lamp, and deeply grateful for the kind condescension and courtesy extended to them by the College dignitaries.
—On Sunday evening four Compositions were read ai the Distribution of Points. “Lorenzo Giberti,” from the youngest member of the Third Senior Class, read by Miss Foote. “Labyrinths,” from the First Senior Class, read by Miss Dennehey; “What does it Matter?” by Miss Green, and “ Cultivation of the Mind,” by Miss Walker of the Graduating Class.
—On the 8th inst., the Holy Angels’ Sodality had an entertainment in the Grotto of Loreto, at five o’clock P. M. [t consisted of expressions of gratitude to Very Rev. Father General, and as they had selected their May Queen, they begged of him to crown her. * The little Queen elect— Carrie Hughes—refused the honor, on the plea that the “ Queen of Angels ” is the only one worthy to be Queen of May, and her young compeers laid the crown at the feet of her statue at her request. Very Rev. Father General, however, gave the crown to the little girl. Those who took oart in the recitations were L. Hutchinson, M. Ewing, L. Walsh, M. Schultheis, M. Reynolds, B. Wilson, C. Hughes, M. Bell, N. McGrath, and M. Hogan.
ART NOTES.
—The Oral Class was duly catechised on Saturday morning upon lights and shadows, and upon the intelligent use to be made of the sun’s rays in its play upon real subjects.
—Miss Rebecca Neteler has finished, very beautifully, a study from the cast of an infant’s foot. This is only “one of the beginnings ” of good things yet to be seen from Miss Neteler’s assiduous and conscientious pencil.

THE SCHOLASTIC.
.511
—The spring flowers, which are now found in great beauty on the sunny banks at St. Mary’s, are sitting most demurely for their pretty portraits in St. Luke’s Studio. Some of these portraits are painted on silk (we shall give the names of the artists in due time,) others upon the whitewood ornaments so much in favor at the east. In this way the simple charms of the wild flowers are preserved, and, at the same time, a graceful memento of St. Mary’s prepared for “dear little ones at home.”
—A design for wall-paper has been finished the past week. The large sprig is a study of fresh hepaticas, alternating with a single wood-anemone with its leaves. The long vine on each side of tiie sprigs is taken from the twinberry vine, and gives the leaves, blossoms and fruit on the same stem, as it is seen in its native woods. We are sanguine in the belief that these designs for wall-papers, taken from the wild flowers of our own woods and meadows, would prove very attractive to manufacturers. Certainly, no place affords better facilities for such designs than St. Mary’s. This remark is not dropped casually, nor hastily. It involves a very important question with regard to the industries suited to ladies, as well as with regard to our own Drawing Department and its practical results. We hope to see this design succeeded by others, and we hope, by suitable efforts, to briug them into notice among those manufacturers who, at present, are depending entirely upon foreign pencils and foreign brushes. There are hundreds of ladies in our American cities who would not mind the price, if they could have a favorite boudoir, bedroom or nursery, papered in a manner to recall the charming wood-haunts anl rambles of their girlhood. We could even now, furnish almost any number of these designs at St. Mary’s.
TABLET OF HONOR.
For the Week Ending April 26.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
• For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled:
' Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, A. Smith, L. Dragoo, G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K Joyce, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair, A. O’Connor, J. McGuire, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson. M. Brady, L. Kelly, S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler, K. Morris, P. Gaynor, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan, R. Klar, A. Byrne, M. Roberts, J. Pierce, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, K. Casey, T. Gay-,nor, M. O’Mahony, M. and E. Thompson, C. Morgan, H. Russel, S. Moran, M- Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham, J. Riopelle, E. Edes, S. Raising, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, L. Johnson, E. Pierce, N. King, D. Allen, L. Bosch, G. Hills, L. Schwass, M. Railton, S. Swalley, L. Ryan, R. Cordoniea.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Ewing, E. Lange, A. Cullen, M. and B. Siler, B. Golsen, J. Brown, M. Reynolds, S. Cash, L. Kirchner, N. McGrath, M. Hooper, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson, C. Yates, H. Kraus, M. Hoffman, E. Lappin, M. Derby, M. Redfield, I. Mann, K. Hudson, M. Bell.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN FRENCH LESSONS.
1st Div., 1st Class—Misses J. Kearney, M. Walker.
2nd Div., 1st Class—Misses K. Joyce, F. Dilger, L. Tinsley, J. Krelgh, S. Harris, M. Poquette, E. Thompson, A. Harris, B. Wilson, N. McGrath.
1st Div., 2nd Class—Misses J. Fanning, M. Walsh, A. Walsh, C. Woodward, J. Bennett, M. Daily, M. Carlin.
2nd Div., 2nd Class—Misses E. Haggerty, R. Canoll, R. Cordoniea.
Latin Class—Misses Joyce, Brady, Smith, Foote, Cravens, Byrne, McGuire,„Green, Dougherty.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses M. Faxon, J. Nunning, S. Harris, L. Kirchner, M. Schultheis, B. Golsen, A. Harris.
2nd Div.—Misses R. Neteler, L. Bosch.
2nd Class—Misses M. Julius, A. O’Connor, M. Dunbar, L. Kelly, H. Kraus, R. Klar, S. Reising.
‘ CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses H. Foote, E. O’Connor, L. Henrotin, E. Haggerty.
2nd Div.—Misses B. Spencer and J. Riopelle.
2nd Class—Misses J. Kearney, D. Cavenor, M. Riley.
2nd Div.—Misses Smith, Locke, Dougherty, Arnold and C. West.	.
3rd Class—Misses C. Morgan, L. Kirchner, M. O’Connor, T. Gaynor, A. Walsh, M. Walsh, S. Edes, E. Edes, I. Edes.
2nd Div.—Misses Bennett, N. King, Cash, Koch, L. Walsh. '
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses E. Quinlan, R. Spier, H. Foote, A. Smith.
2nd Div.—Misses B. Spencer, R. Green.
2nd Class—Misses J. Kreigh, J. Nunning.
2nd Div.—Misses K. Hutchinson, J. Kearney, E. O'Connor, M. Julius, K. Greenleaf.
3rd Class—Misses A. Harris, B. Wilson, L. Wyman, A. Byrnes, S. Harris.
2nd Div.—Misses A. Dilger, L. Kirchner, E. Dennehey, G. Wells, L. Henrotin, A. St. Clair, M. Hutchinson, M. Cravens, L. Tinsley, M. Koch, C. Morgan, L. Arnold.
4th Class—Misses J. Locke, A. Duncan, F. Wells, M. Faxon, H. Kraus, A. T. Clarke, D. Cavenor, E. Haggerty, J. Bennett.
2nd Div.—Misses F. Dilger, L. Hutchinson, M. A. Robetts, M. Redfield, L. McKinnon, M. McKay, B. Golsen, H. Russel, K. Joyce, C. West.
5th Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. and E. Thompson, M. Riley, A. Allen, L. Johnson, L. Ritchie, A. Cullen, M. Bryson, M. Pritchard, S. Reising.
2nd Div.—Misses A. M. and L. Walsh, L. Gustine, C. Woodward, A. Curtin, M. Schultheis, H. Peak, E. Lange, R. Canoll, J. Andrews.
6th Class—Misses H. Parks, M. O’Connor, P. Gaynor, S. Hole, A. McGrath, B. and M. Siler, N. McAuliffe, A. Goewey, M. Reynolds, E. Lappin, N. McGrath, E. Dougherty, A. Smith, S. Swalley, M. Hooper, J. Morris.
2nd Div.—Misses M. Brady, S. Edes, R. Neteler, I. Fisk, E. Simpson, L. Brownbridge, M. Quill, M. Gaynor, S. Moran, L. Ryan, E. Pierce, K. Casey, G. Hills.
7th Class—Misses E. Colwell, E. Edes, J. Brown, M. Anthony, M. Daily, S. Cash, C. Maigrey, L. Kelly, L. Schwass, L. Bosch, E. York, I. King, J. Pierce.	'
8th Class—Misses M. Bell, A. Ewing, K. Hudson.
9th Class—Misses C. and M. Hughes, R. Goldsberry.
10th Class—Misses M. Hoffman, M. Derby, Y. Mier, A. Peak, C. Trull.
Harp—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Walker, M. Wicker.
Harmony—Misses Spier, Quinlan, Green, Foote, and A. Smith.
Theoretical Classes—Misses E. Dennehey, A. T. Clarke, J. Nunning, L. Wyman, K. Hutchinson, L. Tinsley, A. Byrnes, K. Greenleaf, C. Morgan, M. Julius, B. and K. Spencer, M. Faxon, B. Golsen, M. and B. Siler, L. Henrotin, S. Harris, N. King, L. Bosch, S. Moran, R. Neteler, I. Edes, S. Hole, S. Swalley, C. Morgan, P. Gaynor, H. Parks, N. Anthony, K.-Joyce, M. A. Roberts, M. Cravens, C. Woodward, H. Russel. ________
Erratum.
—In the account of the Philopatrians’ Exhibition, page 505 of this week’s Scholastic, in 26th line of the first column, for “Kleiner” read F. Klaner.
NATIONAL HOTEL
Soxitli Bend, Indiana
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
THOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
512
THE SCHOLASTIC.
ALMER & VanWINKLE,
.	Dealers in
CONFFECTIONEIRIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
JST" Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER, 71 Washington St., ,	.	. South Bend, Ind
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory" He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
PR. C. H. MIDDLETON, _
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, •	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
JQDWARD BUYSEE, Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street,
.	South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. %-tf
A HANAUER,
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, ' South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS, STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., Oser Cooritey's Drug Store, -	South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring 1
oil-tf
Ju E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,-
105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old Hnglish, on Watches, Rings and Badges.	.
decl-Htf.
JRELAND .& SON, proprietors op
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE, No. 54= MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND., (Opposite the Dwight House).
HACK HINE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	%o24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
----------------0---
DROP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND
. See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. Jgo24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
"A TESSES. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the AYL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home duringtheir stay,
JERRY KNIGHT, i proDrieto„
Q a PT A TN MILLS, f "opnetors.
■
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
---o--
M. LIVINGSTON & CO?,
04= Micliigan St., Sontlr Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock o
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FTTRNISHING^ GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves. Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clotlxing is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Clotlis, Cassi-meres and "Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
99 MAIN STREET, - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!,'
Fresh Candies Made Daily.
)Co24-U
L