Votre Dame Scholastic.
DIsce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 5, 1880.
Number 39.
The River of Life.
’Tis a fleeting, changeful river, Blent of calm and crested wave;
Flowing in and out, forever, ’Tween the cradle and the grave:
Changeful river, ever flowing;
Narrower and broader growing;
Flowing, flowing, ever going Towards the still and solemn sea.
Forms of light and shapes of shadows Float upon its troubled breast;
Through the moorland and the meadow, On 1 the waters will not rest.
Here a bud, by churl hand wrested, Flung into the angry foam;
There, a flower, with bloom invested, Plucked and ravished from its home.
Youth and age, and strength and weakness, Beauty, innocence, and sin ;
Pride and power, and love and meekness, All, in turn, are gathered in.
Time and Death, two grim old warders, Watch its rise and mark it flow;
Death, upon the still sea’s borders, Bids the ice-wind on it blow.
Changeful river—fond hearts parting!
In that still and solemn sea, Joined—to heal the grief and smarting—
Bud and flower with stem, shall be.
For, o’er Time and Death, an angel— God’s strong angel—walks the wave, Claiming with his trump, Evangel,
All that pass within the grave:
Claiming for his Lord and Master, By the flaming cross he wears,
All—though battered by disaster— All the sullen river bears;
Changeful river, ever flowing, Narrower and broader growing,
Flowing, flowing, ever going Towards the still and solemn sea.
—A little boy, upon asking his mother how many Gods there were, was instantly answered by his younger brother:
“Why, one, to be sure.”
“But how do you know that?” inquired the other.
“ Because,” he replied, “ God fills every place, so there is no room for any more.”
Food and Health.
ORGANS AND PROCESS OP DIGESTION.
IV.
Thus far the composition of food, its classification and culinary preparation have been spoken of, and it remains now to trace the food through the various functions of digestion, absorption, etc., etc., till lost in the composition of the tissues by the process of assimilation.
The first step in the chain of functions necessary for the continuance of animal life is digestion of the food, a process by which it is reduced to a proper condition for absorption into the blood, there to furnish materials for the growth and support of the body. In all physiological questions two things have to be considered: first, the structure of the organ in question, and secondly its functions. Now, the organs connected directly with digestion are: the alimentary canal and the various organs supplementary thereto. I will first say a word on the alimentary canal. This is a long tube, measuring in the adult about thirty feet. Its size is variable in different parts of its course, but there are certain characters which are common to it throughout its whole extent. The walls of the canal on the external side are muscular; internally they form a membrane which, from its function of secreting mucus, is called the mucous membrane. The mucous membrane in structure and position corresponds to the skin; in fact, physiologists regard it as merely an inflection of the skin of the body; the skin has been, moreover, in certain surgical operations, used to replace mucous membrane, and after a certain time to perform like functions. The commencement of the alimentary canal—the mouth—is a nearly oval-shaped cavity, enclosed by the muscular walls of the cheeks and the bony walls of the upper and lower jaw-bones. In front, the mouth is bounded by the teeth and lips; behind, the hanging palate serves as a kind of curtain to hide the entrance into the pharynx; while the floor is moveable, and forms what is commonly called the tongue. The teeth, the palate, the tongue, and the several glandular structures, are of great importance in connection with the functions under consideration.
The tongue and the palate are two of the principal factors in swallowing; for after mastication has been completed, the mouth closes, and the tongue, collecting with its tip all particles of food into one mass, presses against the roof of the mouth from before backward, and thus driving forward the food, forces it gradually into the pharynx.
The teeth in man, as is well known, have to perform very important offices in the mouth, they being, properly speaking, the masticatory organs. They appear in two sets—the milk or temporary, and the permanent. The
608	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
milk-teeth are twenty in number, ten to each jaw, and begin to make their appearance when the child is about six months old, and, as a general rule, are complete at the age of two years. The permanent set of teeth are thirty-two, sixteen in each jaw, and commences to replace the temporary set at the age of six, but are not completed till about eighteen, and more frequently not until a much later period; moreover, some people never have a complete set of teeth. In front, and in the centre of each jaw, are the four incisors or cutting teeth; their function is to cut or divide; next to the four incissors are the canines or eye-teeth, one being on each side of the incisors, thus making four altogether. The object of these teeth is to tear. In man they are not very greatly developed; but in animals that live on flesh, called, generally, carnivores, they are sometimes very highly developed. As an example of this, we have the dog. After the canines come the two bicuspids or small grinders; they are called bicuspids because they have only two roots, in contradistinction to the next three teeth on each side, called the tricuspids, which have each three roots, but only in the upper jaw, those of the lower having only two, as the preceding. The last, molar or tricuspid is called the wisdom tooth, or dens sapientice, be-cause it does not appear until a person is about twenty years old; very commonly it makes its appearance even later, and in some it is never developed. To represent the teeth in the jaws anatomists have what is called a dental formula. This formula differs in the differents kinds of animals; as, for example, in man, in dogs, in cows, in horses, monkeys, bears, etc., etc.
Every tooth consists anatomically of three parts—the crown, the part which projects above the jaw; the fang, that part which is inserted in the socket of the jaw; and the neck, the narrow portion joining the previous two parts. Into the structure of the teeth three substances enter: ivory, consisting of about 28 per cent of animal, to 72 of earthly matter, and forms the greater part of the tooth; enamel, which covers the whole of the crown of the tooth, and is the hardest organic substance known, consisting of 96J£ parts of mineral to animal matter. The fangs are covered with the third substance, called cement.
As to the form of the teeth, they vary considerably in different animals, according to the nature of the food on which they subsist In carnivora, all the teeth are sharp and pointed, not even the grinders excepted. In herbivora, or grass-feeders, the teeth are broad, and are made up of •vertical plates composed of enamel and cement, which alternate in regular layers or plates. The result of this disposition of the two substances is, that owing to the difference in hardness of the two sets of plates, they wear unequally, keeping the surface of the tooth constantly roughened, and thus serve better the purpose of crushing and grinding the food. In animals that gnaw or nibble, like the hare, the rabbit, the mouse, etc., etc., there are large front teeth, which are kept sharp like chisels by the wearing out of the dentine inside the tooth, the anterior portion being of the hard substance of enamel. The teeth of man bear a resemblance to both the carnivora and herbivora, and, therefore, man live upon the two kinds of food peculiar to these classes of animals; hence, man may be truly styled omnivorous.
In the mouth we find three glands secreting the saliva, a secretion that acts upon the starchy elements of the food. These glands are: the parotid, situated immediately below and in front of the external ear, and com
municating with the mouth by ducts, which open just opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw; the sublingual and submaxillary. The sublingual is situated under the tongue, the submaxillary below the jaw. The functions of the salivary glands will be considered more fully when I come to speak of the changes which the food undergoes in its passage through the alimentary canal.
The mouth communicates backwards, as has been already said, with the cavity called the pharynx. In this cavity seven openings are seen: the mouth, the posterior openings of the nose, the Eustachean tubes, which are ducts leading to the middle ear; the larynx, or windpipe, protected by its covering, the epiglottis; and behind the last opening the oesophagus, or gullet. The oesophagus is about nine inches long, and extends from the pharynx to the stomach; its direction is downwards, and towards the left side; piercing the diaphragm, and entering the stomach at its left upper extremity, where the muscles are in a circular form, so as to guard the entrance of the stomach, and prevent the food from passing out of the stomach back into the oesophagus.
The stomach is the widest dilatation in the alimentary canal, and differs greatly in size in different individuals. It is extremely elastic, and therefore capable of holding a greater quantity of food than it would seem when merely looking at the organ. Like the rest of the alimentary canal its walls are of the same structure, namely, the ex-terior is muscular and the interior of mucous membrane Its close position to the heart is the cause of the influence it has over that organ. Palpitation and difficulty of breathing, experienced after a full meal, are caused by the pressure of the distended stomach on the heart. When the stomach is distended its interior has the appearance of a velvety covering, but when empty it is drawn into rugae, or folds. If examined with an ordinary magnifying glass, it has a honey-combed appearance—the result of innumerable cells—in the bottom of which are seen small orifices, through which the gastric juice is secreted by the gastric follicles. After food has been digested in the stomach it leaves this organ by the opposite extremity from that by which it entered. This orifice is called pylorus, the name of the other being the cardiac orifice, from its close position to the heart. After the food leaves the stomach it enters the small intestines, which are divided arbitrarily into three regions. The first of these, the duodenum, into which the stomach opens is about ten inches long, and receives the juices from the two most important glands connected with digestion, i. e., of the liver and pancreas. Next to the duodenum comes the jejunum. These constitute about two-fifths of the small intestines. The ileum is the lowermost portion of the intestines, and is thrown into many coils or convolutions. The ileum opens through the ileo-cmcal valve into the large intestines, which passes on the left upwards, then transversely from left to right, and finally downwards; this division forms the terminating portion of the alimentary canal. The structure of intestines is the same as that of the stomach; the external layer is muscular and the internal mucuous membrance. In appearance, the interior of different portions of the canal varies greatly. In the small intestines, and especially in the upper portion, the mucous membrane—owing to its much greater extent than the muscular wall—hangs in transverse folds, which partly obstruct the canal, and perform a double office, serving to retard the passage of the food through the intestines, and to present a larger surface for absorption.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	609
On the interior surface of the intestines are also found small club-like processes, called villi. These are exclusively confined to the small intestines, and are so closely set that it is calculated that there are no fewer than four millions of them. Each villus is a fold of mucous membrane, enclosing a net-work of blood-vessels, and also other vessels called lacteals; these latter absorb the elements of the food, and convey it to the blood, the process of which will be considered when I come to speak of the final destination of food—assimilation. In the intestines, moreover, are found certain small glands that secrete the intestinal juice, which perform minor offices in the complete digestion of the food.
I now speak of those organs which, though not a portion of the alimentary canal, act important parts in preparing the food for assimilation by the system; these are two in number: the liver and pancreas—both of them of glandular structure. The liver, which is the largest gland in the body—generally weighing from three to four pounds— is a dark brown flat substance, and is divided into the right and left Jobe. It measures from ten to twelve inches transversely, and from five to six inches from before backwards; it is situated on the right side of the abdomen, and above is in contact with the diaphragm. In inflammation of the liver it presses against the diaphragm, and thus causes the pain around the abdomen in a sort of ring in diseases, such as all biliary fevers. Between the two lobes is a reservoir for the surplus bile, called the gall-bladder. The gall-bladder communicates with the duodenum by a canal called the biliary duct; into this duct the bile, coming from the liver, is also discharged, and then reaches the intestines. The liver is of a granular structure, permeated with blood-vessels and bile-ducts, all of which are bound together by connective tissues. The blood of the liver is obtained by the hepatic artery; but besides this it has another supply peculiar to this organ. The portal vein, which carries the whole of the blood distributed to the stomach, spleen and small intestines back towards the heart, instead of going directly to that organ enters the liver and splits up into innumerable branches, thus bringing this blood, which contains the products of digestion, into immediate contact with the secreting cells of the liver; and it is from this blood that the bile is mainly produced. In the liver some of the elements of blood are changed into sugar, which is carried to the lungs with the blood, and there, owing to its great aptness of being oxygenized, is consumed in the respiratory functions, and contributes to the production of animal heat.
The pancreas, or sweetbread, is a long thin gland, resembling in shape the tongue of a dog, and lying transversely across the upper part of the abdomen. In structure it resembles the salivary glands, and its secretion—the pancreatic juice—has many points of resemblance with the saliva. The duct extends along the centre of the glands and joins that coming from the gall-bladder, and empties itself into the duodenum.
In this article I have merely treated of the structure of the organs of digestion. In my next I shall treat of the functions these organs perform, and finish by tracing food to its final end.	Sakitas.
—If your son has no brains, don’t send. him to college. You cannot make a palace out of a shanty by putting a French roof on it.
Marshal St. Cyr.
On considering the wonderful influence exercised by the first Napoleon over the affairs and councils of Europe, a person is naturally led to enquire the why and the wherefore of all this ? There are, it is true, occasions and remote causes which contribute not a little in bringing persons before the eye of the world; but along with these is required an inate power, a peculiar ability, which, when developed and put into action, renders a man capable of wonderful deeds and grand achievements.
Some are born to lead, others to be led, and this constitutes that grand order that may be found in the moral and civil world. Joan of Arc, the Maid of Orleans, was certainly destined by God to accomplish great deeds, but withal, the occasion was everything to her—without it she could do nothing. So it was in regard to a number of other great names that adorn the pages of history. They had the abilities, they had also the chance, hence some, thing had to come forth. Napoleon was needed to a certain,extent in the age in which he lived—he was needed to check the impetuosity of a regicide people—of a nation writhing under a most cruel anarchy. Now, as to his success in life, it may be traced to many sources, but the principal source was his own genius,—the master-mind, if I may so speak, of the “Little Corporal.”
Napoleon was evidently a man of a peculiar mould. His abilities were many-sided, and view him as we will, we are forced to come to the conclusion that he was a wonderful man. Even from his earliest days the stamp of genius was imprinted upon his brow, and the power of commanding, for which he was afterwards so distinguished, was visible in him. But it is not to the sole power of commanding that the achievements of Napoleon Bonaparte may be attributed. His judgment and discernment were of a notable character, and hence it became remarkable that in selecting his generals he was most successful. He could see at a glance the man that would do; and never did he exhibit that error so common even among great men, of striving to reduce all to a solitary standard, and then judging each one according to a fixed rule. It was thus Bonaparte acted in the selection of the subject of our sketch, St. Cyr, a man in whom he saw much to fear and very little to admire.
Napoleon treated some of his generals with respect and affection, others he loved on account of their chivalric devotion and attachment to himself, and again he tolerated some because they were useful; and of the last class, perhaps, was Marshal St. Cyr. He was less impulsive and more methodical than those daring spirits that cast such a halo of glory around the mighty genius of their leader; his devotion less warm, his admiration less enthusiastic, the complaints and recriminations in which he was disposed to indulge found a dangerous element in a man at the head of an army. Marshal St. Cyr was obstinate and self-willed; he was also prone to a disposition of misanthropy, or a hatred which would manifest itself in bursts of anger. Such a disposition in a man who should be all in all, affable to every one, who should, by docility and submission to the higher powers, give to his subordinates the example of prompt obedience, was not at all to be admired.
Born at Toul, in France, in the year 1764, Louis Gouvion St. Cyr received an education sufficient for the profession which he intended to pursue. His parents had designed him to become an artist, and nothing was left undone that would tend to foster a love of study and application, so
610
TRE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
necessary for one on whose creation of imagination depended more or less his success.
The first step taken by our young aspirant was to set out for Rome, there to study at the fountain head the masterpieces of antiquity. Dazzled, as it were, by these incomparable creations, St. Cyr saw no hope of making for himself a name, of gratifying his ambition; for he knew that a painter he might be, but with his mediocre talents he was never likely to excel. The breaking out of the French Revolution diverted his attention from his pencil, and urged him to win his spurs in the stormy scenes of a military campaign.
Fully sensitive that his natural abilities were more adapted for achieving great deeds, of enacting brilliant scenes in the field of battle, rather than patiently to trace the same on canvass, St. Cyr gave up the idea of being an artist, and went forth a soldier of fortune to wield the sword rather than the pencil and brush, and leave a subject lor others to delineate on which future generations might gaze, and behold with wonder what great things men can do.	■
The military career of Marshal St. Cyr was not without its own reverses, and these were invariably brought about by his own peculiar and eccentric character. He did not always know when a favor was conferred on him; he would murmur and complain, forgetting that it is only a man of ability that can achieve great things with small means; that to gain a victory with an army inferior in numbers, half-disciplined, half-equipped redounds more to the glory of the commander than if they had many advantages. At the first outbreak of the Revolution, St. Cyr enlisted as a private soldier in a company of Volunteers, set out for the Rhine, where were concentrated all the forces that could be mustered, and continued there doing admirable service for the cause which he espoused, until rising from grade to grade he found himself at the early age of thirty-one a general in command of a division. A few years later he was to be seen doing admirable service in Italy under Massena; and by his prudence and consummate skill deserved to be chosen to take sole command in place of the latter, who was obliged to resign in consequence of a rebellion made against him by his men. St. Cyr proved himself equal to this arduous task, and in a short time restored in the camp order and subordination. He was deservedly popular at this time; but being transferred to the Rhine, on the arrival of Napoleon from the Egyptian expedition, there arose a bickering between himself and his commander, a selfishness unworthy of such great men as himself and Moreau. These unhappy disputes arising from a difference of opinion does not redound to the credit of either, but certain it is that St. Cyr was to blame, for though endowed with much more foresight, he had no right to urge his scheme after being once rejected.
The offence a man commits who, because his plans are not adopted, his suggestions acted upon, would make of his army a machine, and at that most awful moment when the fate of thousands, nay, of a whole nation, depended on a single move—that offence, I say is unpardonable ; and the man guilty of such a crime—of paralyzing a whole army—should be treated with the utmost rigor. It is thus St Cyr is accused of acting towards Moreau, but he justifies himself by saying that the despatch did not reach him. This is, however, a poor excuse; for it is a well-known fact that the cannonading could be distinctly heard by him, and consequently he was bound by every law, de
spatch or no despatch, to come to the assistance of his companions. Had he acted so slowly under Napoleon it would have cost him his commission; and had Desaix waited at Marengo for a despatch, Italy was lost to them.
There is no doubt, however, but that St. Cyr was the better general, as he proved not many days after, by per- ’ forming one of those brilliant exploits that stamp the man of tact and genius. Like another Therompylse, the narrow pass by which alone access was available to Bibrach—being defended by an army of ten thousand men, occupying, too, an advantageous position—would have shaken a heart less intrepid than that of St. Cyr. Had he his entire twenty-five thousand with him he would have run through the enemy like a wedge, but his lesser division, uuder Ney, were not to be found. Unexpectedly, however, he was at this juncture re-inforced by Richeupanse’s division, and thus strenghtened he rushed—as Frenchmen are wont to do— scarcely waiting to form the whole in order, with one dash upon the enemy, and took the pass at the first charge; nor did his superior skill rest here, for his keen, practised eye perceived in the main body of the Austrian army, encamped a little way off, a slight indication of alarm and irresolution in their ranks, and, availing himself of this wavering, St. Cyr formed his three divisions, and in as many x: solid columns, with firm step marched upon the enemy, and in a short time, with an army of about twenty thousand men he drove from the heights of Wittunherg an army of not less than sixty thousand. Soon after this, in conse -quence of some dispute between himself and General Moreau, St. Cyr tendered his resignation, but being refused got out on the plea of ill health.
In October, 1799, we find him once more in Italy fighting bravely; the following year he was called to the Council of State, and the year following (1801), took the place of Lucian Bonaparte as Ambassador at the Court of Madrid. Soon after he was placed in command of the Neopolitan army, a position which he held until 1805, when he was made Colonel General of the Cuirassiers, and received the Grand Eagle of the Legion of Honor. In the following campaigns of Prussia and Poland he won an honorable distinction, and in 1807 was appointed Gover- " nor of Warsaw. After the peace of Filsit he was sent to Spain where he won few laurels, but rather merited to undergo two years of exile for having indulged in unjust and unmanly complaints. In the Russian campaign of 1812 he appears again, and exhibits the same great qualities of commander; and, while fighting bravely at Polotsk, receives the long withheld, although long deserved, Mar- " shal’s baton. Next year he commanded at Dresden, where he had some sharp encounters, yet held the city until the disasters that befell the French army left him at the mercy of his assailants, leaving him no other resource than to capitulate. After the restoration, he returned to France, and was admitted to a seat by Louis in the Chamber of Peers.	.<
On the landing of Napoleon from Elba, St. Cyr retired into the country, and remained inactive till the second overthrow of the empire at Waterloo. On the king’s re ' turn he was honored with the order of St. Louis, and also presented with the portfolio of the war ministry. In the autumn of the same year he was asked to give his consent to the treaty of Paris, but refused. Two years later on he r was made Minister of the Marine, from whence he passed to the War Office. While in this department, he succeeded I in getting a law passed by which no man was to receive
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	611
a commission in the army till he served, two years as a soldier. This thoroughly democratic measure sprung from his experience of the superiority of those officers who had arisen from the ranks. In 1819, being strongly op posed to the proposed changes in the law of elections, he resigned his office, and never again appeared in public.
In March, 1830, Marshal St. Cyr terminated a course that may be regarded as brilliant, despite the many reverses which he met with, and side by side with the heroes with whom he fought and bled was laid in the cemetery of Pere-la-Chaise, where a noble monument crowns his
। grave.
X	St. Cyr was a humane man, and never indulged in the
excesses which stained the reputation of so many of the military leaders of his time. He was endowed with great talents, and deserved all the honors that have been bestowed । * upon him. Although he never devoted much of his time ' to literature, yet his work entitled “ Journal des Operations de l'Armee de Catalogue, en 1808-9 sur le Commandment du f General Gouvion St. Cyr ” is quite remarkable.
'	Clear-sightedness in the field, perfectly methodical in his
plans, and a cool, calculating spirit, were the peculiar '	characteristics of St. Cyr. On the field of battle, he was
0.	regarded as one of the best tacticians in the army. At a
glance, his keen eye would scan the enemy’s position, and in his plans he omitted no detail necessary to insure success. It is remarkable to see the reliance he placed on the moral feeling of both armies, which he calculated with the nicety of numbers. Less impulsive than Napoleon, Ney, Massena, and Kleber, his most headlong movements were as much the result of calculation as his soberest plans. With him, consummate art took the place of a vivid imag-, , ination. He could calculate the inspirations of genius, and knew when he ought to be moved by impulse; his mind had great rapidity of movement, but it was that of logic. He had all the qualities of a great commander, and were it not for his unsocial dispositon and cold, repulsive nature he might have early attained to the highest honors in the empire.	M. J.
Th© Three Urns.
AN ARAB TRADITION.
It is related that on a certain day King Nimrod summoned his three sons into his presence, and, having called in his servants, ordered three sealed urns to be placed before the princes. The first of these urns was made of gold; the second, of amber; and the third, of clay. Then the father gave his eldest son the first choice to select that urn which, in his estimation, might hold the greatest treasure. As could be supposed, he took the golden vase, bearing the inscription “ Empirebut, on having opened it, he found it filled with blood. The second son’s choice was the amber vase, marked by the word “glory,” but it contained nothing but the mortal remains of men, that had once been famous during their lifetime. The youngest son had to be satisfied with the earthen vessel, which he found empty. Yet one of the names of the Most High was written at the bottom of the vase. Then the emperor asked his courtiers which of the three vases was the most precious. The ambitious, of course, pointed to the golden vase; the poets, conquerors, and learned men awarded the prize to the vase of amber; the wise men, however, decided in favor of the earthen vessel, because a single letter
of the name of God was in reality of more worth than all creation. I myself am of the same opinion as these wise men; and such are the words of Lamartine, who has acquainted us with this beautiful tradition “Since we believe that the greatest things are only great in proportion as they partake of the Divinity, and when the Supreme Judge will pass sentence on the dust of our actions, of our vanities and glories, He will reward only what is done in His Holy Name.”	S.
Art, Musio and Literature.
—Mr. Longfellow appears in the May number of the International Portrait GaUery.
—Mr. Browning will publish before long a companion volume to the “Dramatic Idyls” which appeared last summer.
—“The Country of the Passion Play” by L. G. Seguine, is announced by Messrs. Strahan & Co. as nearly ready, with maps and forty illustrations.
—The Bodleian Library has acquired a MS. containing the missing commentary on Proverbs by the famous Abraham Aben Ezra.
—A number of Russian scholars are at work on a series of histories of the world’s literatures, to appear in St Petersburg the present year.
—The English version of the narrative, which Prof. Nordenskjbld has in hand, of “The Voyage of the Vega,” will be published in London by Macmillan & Co. at as early a date as circumstances will permit.
—Among the drawings at the exhibition of the Institute of Water-Color Painters, which has been opened this week, is one by the German Crown Princess representing an Italian peasant boy. It is inscribed “Roma, 1880.”
—A discovery of Roman pavements has just been made at Brading, in the Isle of Wight, several tesselated floors having been brought to light this week; among the subjects are a Bacchic scene, a combat, and some chequered designs.
—A most beautiful statuette in bronze has been recently discovered in Pompeii. It represents a faun tapping a skin full of wine. Though not altogether cleansed from the incrustation of ages, it is an object of great admiration, says the Piccolo, to all who see it.
—The artists of New Orleans have lately formed what is designed to be a permanent organization, known as the Southern Art Union, its object being to advance aesthetic tastes, promote art education, and enable all Southern artists to have a permanent gallery of exhibition in that city.
—A manuscript Psalter has recently been recovered at Freiburg, in the Grand Duchy of Baden, which archaeological experts assign to the second half of the eight century. It presents all the characteristics of the later Merovingian and early Carlovingian period, and is presumed to have been originally the property of some monastery on the left bank of the Rhine.
—Cardinal Bartolini, who is most erudite in Christian archaeology, has just published a work illustrative of Monte Cassino and ot us early history, especially that which concerns its archaeology. The book is illustrated with lithographic and chromo-lithographic plates, showing the ancient Cyclopean walls that still remain on a part of the mountain, and the plan of the Abbey in its original condition. The work and plates are printed in the Abbey.
—Gustave Dore’s latest work is “A Tortured Soul.” It is described as representing a young monk seated before an organ in the choir of a Gothic church. “His fingers stray over the keys, while his pale, attenuated countenance and great hollow dark eyes are turned toward the spectator. At the young organist’s side, amid the sunny light that streams through the arched window, stands a female form, vague, vaporous, and beautiful, a white mist amid the golden rays. It is the vision of his lost love that haunts
612
THE NO^RE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the youthful ascetic, the embodied remembrance of the woman for whose sake he had sought refuge in a cloister.
—M. Merinque, formerly pupil of the French School of Archaeology at Rome, has published two studies on archaeology and ancient geography. The first “Etude sur Freneste Ville du Latium,” is an elaborate work on the celebrated city and its renowned temple. He has carefully studied on the spot the smallest ruins left of the ancient edifices, and has collected all the information given by preceding authors. He has also attempted the reconstruction of the ancient edifices. One chapter is exclusively devoted to the archaeology of Preneste, and especially to the engraved ciste, or bronze chests. The second work, “ De Regione Marsorum,” is an exact description of the Marsic region, for the compilation of which the author visited every village in the district, minutely studying the soil and the ruins.—London Weekly Register.	'
Exchanges,
—The William's Athenaeum for May is enlarged to twenty pages and dons a neat blue-granite cover. With this number the editorial board of 1879-80 retire, and we learn from an editorial that they leave the Athenaeum in a much better financial condition than that in which they received it. As to the literary status of the paper, we think the Athenaeum ranks with the best of our college papers. Its local department has certainly been one of the most ably edited and spicy, and far above the average in regard to the manner in which the dry facts of college life were presented. The local editor evidently possessed a rare fund of wit and humor. The exchange editor of the Athenaeum takes up the gauntlet thrown at his leet by the editor of the Niagara Index, and returns him blow for blow. The manner in which the wordy athletes sling billingsgate reminds us of the contest between O’Connell and Biddy ' Moriarty, the fishwoman. It is rather amusing, though not edifying or gentlemanly, and the fact that the editor of the Index is “ pitched into ” by the college press at large shows clearly at whose door lies the principal share of the fault. The Index man is most cordially hated—hated—hated by almost every college exchange editor in the United States, and he can blame himself for it. What pleasure he can find in this manner of doing editorial business is more than we can imagine. He certainly dots no good by it, and the blasphemous sallies he provokes—some of which were quoted in a former number of the Athenaeum—should convince the reasonable men at the Seminary of Our Lady of the Angels that this exchange editor has done harm enough in his generation. The responsibility of the evil certainly lies more with him than with those whom he provokes.
—The May number of The College Courier is the first from the hands of the new board of editors, and it is an exceptionally good one. The matter of the editorials is excellent, and the style of writing is in perfect keeping—such as might be expected from gentlemen and scholars. The first editorial that attracts the attention of readers outside of Monmouth’s college halls is that which touches a recent article from The Chronicle on Universities and small colleges, the latter term being used as an equivalent for denominational institutions, in which the Courier shows some of the mistakes made by the writer in The Chronicle. The objections raised against the laxity of discipline said to be consequent on* the small number of professors and students in the small or denominational institutions are well answered by The Courier, but the latter might have added that the fact upon which the objection was raised is in itself an advantage rather than a drawback—at least in the best managed of the denominational colleges—inasmuch as the smaller number of students gives an opportunity for the exercise of greater care in their instruction. This, of course, does not apply to the large number of schools that have sprung up ' fungus-like, and are dubbed with the claptrap title of colleges—against which the objections of the writer in The Chronicle strike with their fullj force. The follow
ing excerpt from The Courier's article applies well to the better of the denominational institutions:	~
“It is true thatthe government ofour denominational schools ' is largely of a paternal nature; but so far are we from regarding this as a defect in the system, that we esteem this feature to be its crowning glory. We are not prepared to admit that laxity of discipline is commonly found in connection with this system,	,
much less that it is a necessary consequent of it. In a well-regulated family there is no slackness or disregard of authority, but the most rigid discipline; it is, in fact, the most perfect earthly type of the Divine government. We are accustomed to look upon our instructors, not as menials who work for pay, nor yet as mere intellectual machines, which, by our coming in contact with them a certain number of hours each day, are able to impart to our minds a specified degree of polish and “cultyah;'1 but as men who devote their energies to our improvement because they feel a personal interest in us; men to whom we can go for advice and counsel as well as for intel- " lectual training. The professors in a large number of our church schools are men of ripe experience, broad culture, and sound judgment; and we believe they are not the less fitted for their work by reason of the earnest, active, Christian spirit which animates their lives. It is difficult for us to conceive how * association and acquaintance with such men can be a source of disadvantage to tne student. In a word, the denominational system recognizes the great truth that man has a moral as well as an intellectual nature, and demands that the education of the heart and the head shall not be divorced. We certainly have no fault to find with the Chronicle for upholding that educational system of which Ann Arbor is an ardent representative ; still its views are, as we have endeavored to show, onesided. It is our opinion that the faults common to our denom- ' inat’onal schools are due to their infancy rather than to a con-	/
stitutional infirmity. It is equally as unfair to judge the merits of the two systems by comparing their present attainments, as it would be to measure the strength of the child against that of the full-grown man. The church school does not Minerva-like, leap full-armed from the head of the State ; on the contrary, it ' is usually its fate to struggle through an infancy of poverty and cold neglect. If it would survive, it must demonstrate its fitness to live by the excellence of its work. Hence, it is not surprising that many should languish and die before reaching maturity. There are others, however—our own, we trust, in the number—for which the future holds better things in reserve; which are even now divesting themselves of their swaddling garments and girding themselves for a long career of usefulness J, and glory.”	"
Among the communications to the present number of The Courier are two notable articles, both levelled against The Church—the one, holy, Roman Catholic and Apostolic Church, the only Church that, notwithstanding any drawbacks on the part of her members or ministers embodies wholly aud in part each and all of these titles, for she alone is one, embodying perfect unity in her teachings, and unanimity in her belief and practices; she alone is A Catholic, as existing from the beginning of Christian time, spreading her doctrines in every country and clime, and will do so to the end, thus being Catholic as regards time aud place, a title that no other Christian denomination can lay claim to; she only of all Christian denominations can clearly trace her existence to the time of the Apostles, thus being by excellence the Apostolic Church; and she only is holy, in her Founder, Jesus Christ, and in the thousands of her children who in all ages have sanctified her by their teachings and example, and by the shedding of their blood 'j* in testimony of their Faith. It is all very well for “ Jas.
W. Matthews, of ’80,” to rail in bombastic style agaiust the Catholic Church, to call her an “ aged voluptuary, faded, tottering, loathsome,” to charge her with “ luxuries and crimes,” to speak of “ her vice-drained vaults,” whatever they may mean—we had never heard of them before; of the “ wealthy, the noble, the illustrious, the once trampled upon ” (who were they ?); of “ the paupers that crowd her gorgeous cathedrals”—(where does “Jas. W. Matthews, " of ’80,” live, or did he ever see a Catholic cathedral ?); of “ the low and the superstitious” (sic!) that “yet esteem her supreme and most venerable.” Further on, this enlightened writer speaks of the “rust and corruption” । tinging “her [the Church’s] celestial arms”, of “her j imperious trumpet peal”—we had never, till now,	i
heard that the Church had made of herself an “ Angel	I
Gabriel” or used a trumpet of any kind. “Jas. W.
Matthews, of ’80,” also tells us that the West “charged with >p all its arms where the Pontificates fierce eagles shone"— (“fierce eagles shone—what does this mean?); that conquest and ruin were her [the Church's] heralds”—where? and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
013
।
when? and that “from these her ecclesiastical coffers were enriched ”; that “ she triple-locked and chained her eternal riches; nay, she buried that book whose preciousness outweighed Alexandria’s storied casket”—buried what book?—where, and when? “Jas. W. Matthews, of ’80,” also tells that “her [the Church’s] vestments were empurpled not alone with Tyran hues, but with persecution’s gloomy dyes, and dripping crimson"—purpled with “dripping crimson”—whew! that was terrible, wasn’t it? “Fiercer, haughtier, viler she grew,”—continues “Jas. W. Matthews, of’80,”—“until He whose talents she had hidden took vengeance,”—when did this terrible catastrophe happen, and what was it all, anyhow ? “ Then a crushed world,” continues this wonderfully brilliant writer, “ shook off Rome’s specious enchantments. ... It saw that throne which should have been the seat of dignity and purity, polluted by vice loathesome as where she walks in nakedness ”—you see, he writes with the boldness of one who knows all about it!—“but there m effulgent robes that shook forth seeds of death from her jewelled folds ”—effulgent robes that “ shook forth seeds of death,” that bothers us a little, but perhaps we are confused, dazed with the brilliancy of “ J as. W. Matthews, of ’80!”—but never mind; let it pass; we suppose he knows what he means, if we do not. Let us follow him. “ It saw monkish libertines rise from the cloister’s gloom ”—by the way, libertines don’t like gloom; they shun it—there’s a hitch somewhere !— “ to grasp St. Peter’s awful symbols, and trample on nobility and genius ”—ah, that’s it!—the sacrilegious rascals! We wonder who they were, though; why does the writer excite our curiosity and then withhold the names? We would like to have been there; would’nt we help to pummel the wretches though! but we are getting excited. Let’s hear the rest of this terrible tale. “ The monastery’s wiles were unveiled, the ceremonial pomp in the chapel, the wines and sumptuous service below, the secret recesses, now echoing the moans of priestly penitence, now resounding with drunken revelry ” that is rather incongruous, by the way; we can’t understand it. He started with the Church and now drifts to the monasteries. “ The pretentions of the great temples no longer excited universally the old superstitious awe ”—old superstitious awe ? we suppose he refers to the charges made against the early Christians by the pagans—that’s it,—“all were but an empty mockery, while paupers knelt amidst their untold treasures”— paupers’ untold treasures, can’t understand him,—“ while battle standards and martial spoils emblazed their walls,” —the paupers’ walls ?—“ while in their haughty transepts, royal murderers and debauchees lay, embalmed in their mausoleums.” Gracious! that’s frightful! it is a wonder we never met that in history before! But of course “ Jas. W. Matthews, of ’80,” is a truthful historian!
“ Through her ages of splendor, her eras of decay; glittering in armor or arrayed in ceremonial robes; spurning princes or imploring their aid; trembling at the clash of Saracenic arms, or returning in trophied glory from her Orient wars—through all has Rome preserved her ancient policy: to sepulchre learning’s most precious and ennobling gifts; to shackle aggressive genius and quench its empyreal fire; to enrich and elevate her Caesar by impoverishing his subjects; to worship Christ and the saints imaged in magnificent marbles ; to grind God’s own breathing image deeper into the dust. Her policy is still the same. Centuries of decline have not shaken it. It was corner-stone to her old dominion. On that stone shall she rear her fabric of empire when she reigns again. Her ambition is as huge, as stern, as daring as when she dethroned and anointed. Surrounding ruin and darkness only made her imperial and illustrious. If she but take the field again and triumph—liberty, and refinement, and aspiration shall grace her purpled chariot wheels; nay, her trumpet’s triumphal peals shall be the funeral-tones to swell over our own glorious Republic’s bier.”
Pshaw I “ Jas. W. Matthews, of ’80,” is only a brilliant humbug, and has been chaffing us all this time. The little bit of America that was owned by Roman Catholics in colonial times was Maryland, and Maryland was the only place in America at that time where religious and civil liberty was to be had free, gratis by all, of whatever denomination, Catholics, Presbyterians, Episcopalians, Quakers, Jews, and everybody else, no matter what their creed; and while they were clipping the ears of Quakers in New England, and burning witches, and while the non-Cath-olics of Virginia had to steer clear of Massachusetts, and
the Puritans of Massachusetts dare not attempt, on peril of life or liberty, to go within the pale of Virginia, each and either had full liberty in Roman Catholic Maryland until the non-Catholics got the power in their own hands by treachery and outsted the Catholic proprietary. Then, and not till then, religious intolerance prevailed in Maryland, to give way only when the Catholics were rehabilitated in their rights. So we do not believe a word of what “ Jas. W. Matthews, of ’80,” says. He doesn’t know what he is talking about. He does not know what the Catholic Church is. “ Jas. W. Matthews, of ’80,” your essay is bombastic and windy, a meaningless conglomeration.
CoHege Gossip.
—There are eleven Catholic colleges affiliated to the London University England.
—Stonyhurst College possesses, after Greenwich, the finest observatory in England.
—Several valuable contributions to the museum of Boston College are expected from the Smithsonian Institution, Washington.
—President Anderson, of Rochester University, is said to be the “Rev. Enos Martin,” of Judge Tourgee’s story “The Fool’s Errand.”
—Mr. Tennyson has, at the request of the Glasgow University Club, allowed himself to be nominated for the Lord Rectorship of the University.
—The Oberlin Review seems to be much interested in the cause of the “ Spulling Reform.” “ Reforms ” tending to destroy are bad business.
—It is said that the richest University in the world is that of Lyden, in Holland. Its real estate alone is worth over four millions of dollars.
—The Queen has recently conferred the Order of the Indian Empire on Rev. Father Lafont, S. J., Rector of the Catholic College of St. Francis in Calcutta.
—The honorary degree of LL.D. has been conferred by the University of Glasgow on Mr. Edward John Routh, M. A., F. R. 8., and Dr. Michael Foster, F. R. S.
—Fathers of the Society of Jesus have presented to St. Patrick’s College, Maynooth, a portrait of the late Dr. O’Reilly, S. J., who was a professor at the college before Jhe became a Jesuit.
—The Master's degree (artium magister') will be this year conferred upon several former students of Boston College, including one or two now studying at the American College in Rome.
—Very Rev. H. F. Neville, rector of the Catholic University and Secretary to the Episcopal Education Board, has addressed a circular on the question of education to the Irish members of Parliament.
—Verbation from Metaphysics Notes: “Grant an Almighty Being another idea of creation out of nothing is not at all inconceivable.” Would this lead to Pantheism or Third Term—Princetonian.
—Professor O’Looney, M. R. I. A., of the Catholic University, and Very Rev. W. Walsh, D. D., Vice-President of Maynooth College, have been elected to the council for the preservation ot the Irish languages.
—There were upwards of 60 Catholic Universities established before Martin Luther’s time, and ihe so-called Reformation; and among the glorious institutions founded under the auspices ot the Church, may be mentioned: Bologna, Cambridge, Corimbra, Edinburg, Ferrara, Ingolstadt, Oxford, Padua, Paris, Pavia, Pisa, Rome, Salamanca, and Vienna.
—The Jesuits have two colleges at Bombay, one called St. Francis’ and the other St. Mary’s. The former has more than 700 students; the latter, 400. About one-half of them are Catholics. Among the students are Hindoos, Parsees and Mohammedans. The British officials acknowledge that prejudices against Europeans are dispelled by these colleges, and noble sentiments inspired in the hearts of the natives. The other schools established for this very purpose are said to be failures.
614	THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ante MM
JNotre Dame, June 5, 1S8O.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the fevor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Therefore the college editor, who has taken such a prominent part in the first, may look forward with brighter hopes than others for a busy but successful future; having ploughed and harrowed the fallow soil and sown in the
spring, he can look forward with pleasing anticipation of the reaping of golden harvests in the autumn of life. Such is the spontaneous wish of our heart for all those, and they are many, to whom journalistic courtesy has introduced us, and between whom and ourselves a similarity of taste, even though there sometimes existed disparity of views, has drawn a strong bond of sympathy. Therefore it is not without a feeling of regret that we see the announcement that a college board of editors are about to lay down their pens and withdraw from the editorial career—a premonitory sign of the separations from near and dear friends in the future as one by one they drop from the stage of life. Others will supplant them, it is true, and new friendships will be formed, and new contests entered into, but the pleasant associations of the past have left an impress that is not easily eradicated. One by one the editorial boards have passed into quiet nooks or out on to the battle-field of life, but they have left their footprints to guide the steps of other aspirants to literary fame; theirs was not an idle or aimless life, and their labors will bear fruit, as their example will find imitators. It is only the drone and the sluggard who passes and is forgotten—who is accompanied by no regrets at parting, or well wishes for the future.
If a aubecriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—On last Tuesday evening Hon. T. F. Turner, South Bend, Ind., delivered in Science Hall an able and highly instructive lecture before the Law and Commercial students of the University, on the interesting subject of “The American Constitution.” The lecture was listened to throughout with marked attention, and all who had the pleasure of being present bestow upon it unstinted praise. Judge Turner is certainly an interesting speaker, and any subject he chooses on which to address an audience is sure to be handled in a fascinating and highly creditable manner. We hope Notre Dame students will have the pleasure of hearing again the learned J udge before the close of the year, as we know of nothing more beneficial or lasting in its results than the hearing of a good lecture.
—Almost every week some of our exchanges chronicle a change in their editorial board, a fact which of itself is strongly suggestive of the fleeting nature of college life and the great, and, too many mysterious, changes that are to follow it. Life is but as a passing dream, different only from the dream inasmuch as it is interspersed here and there with realities that stand out in strange contrast with the evanescence of time and leave their impress for good or for evil. As college life and college work are but a miniature of that broader and sterner life and work that awaits the student beyond the college walls, it is but natural to suppose that success in the one is a fair presage of what will be the natural result awaiting his efforts in the other.
Perhaps one of the most enjoyable and best appreciated of the many happy amusements indulged in by the Sorins this year, was their excursion to the St. Joe Farm, on Wednesday last. It would seem as though a kind Providence had been regulating the weather for the; joyful occasion; for, though it had rained on Sunday and Monday, and looked very much like it on Tuesday, yet on Wednesday morning scarcely a cloud was visible on the clear, blue summer sky. The Sorins had invited the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, and other friends; and when at 8 o’clock the excursion party, conveyed by some of the best livery rigs in South Bend, started it, was some fifty strong. St. Joe. Farm, the great objective point, was reached at a quarter past 10 o’clock, and at this juncture cheer upon cheer was given for their beloved Patron, Very Rev. Father General.
Soon the excursionists were busily engaged in examining and commenting upon the thousand-and-one things that are to be seen there. After a while they divided themselves into little bands of eight or ten, each accompanied by one or more of those kind-Brothers at the St. Joe Farm, who spare no pains to render the happiness of their guests complete. That they succeeded in so doing on this occasion is manifest from the glowing accounts the Sorins give of their “ trip ” to the St. Joe. At one o’clock dinner was announced, and in a short time after this welcome call, the party partook of as sumptuous a repast as it had been our good fortune to be present at in some time. We shall not enter into the details concerning the many good things with which the tables were covered, but simply say that the very best of everything was there, and the most con-sumate justice done the good things by all. If there was anything needed to complete the Sorins’ cup of joy, it was
TSE EOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
015
afforded in the presence of their beloved and venerated Patron, Very Rev. E. Sorin, who was accompanied by Rev. Father Granger, and other friends of the Association.
The remaining portion of the day was spent in the most enjoyable manner; and at half-past 6 o’clock p. m., having lunched, and given three hearty cheers for Very Rev. Father General, they again found themselves moving homewards. At about 8 o’clock the College.was seen in the dis-ance, and loud were the cheers then given. On reaching the College some more were given, and then the excursionists betook themselves to their respective departments, well pleased with their excursion to the St. Joe.
—If we were "asked what should man prize most in this world, the answer would very likely be, reputation. And, again, if asked on what should man set the most value upon, the answer would again be reputation; for, without this priceless gem, what have we in this world? If it becomes injured, who shall repair the loss thereof? By whom can it be redeemed ? Every other thing of value in life is but dross when compared with this heaven-born gift. It is a condition sine qua non to happiness here below, for if we overlook reputation we must also overlook every other consideration that tends to make life a blessing —that sheds lustre on human nature, and raises it far above the things that are earthly, placing its abode amid the celestialspirits that adorn the portals of eternal bliss. The wealth, the grandeur, and greatness of this world are but trash when placed in the balance of reputation. They are good for nothing; their beauty and charms fast fade away; every grace with which they are adorned changes into a deformity; and all the decorations and accomplishments of life vanish like dew before the noon-day sun.
By the youth especially should an unsullied reputation be highly prized. It’s bad enough to lose it when old and on the brink of the grave, but it is far worse to lose it in the prime of life—at a time when Nature is lavish of her gifts, and when the broad and easy road to success lies waiting in the distance. Who, that cares nothing for a good name, can be trusted as a man of integrity and worth ? Is not the reputable man the patriotic man ? And who can trust the man without a spark of patriotism in him— whose soul and heart and mind are completely estranged from the love of fatherland?
Is it not the love of reputation—of the noble, generous and true that spurs on men to deeds of valor? that lights the lamp of the philanthropic heart? that inspires the martyr to despise life, and suffer the most excruciating of human torments rather than abandon a cause which he considered just, and in which he saw the highest aspirations of man’s immortal soul ?
Reputation is no mean inheritance. Have this, and everything else is in possession. Value it as priceless, and this value will increase in place of diminish. Consider it the richest legacy that can be left to posterity, and it becomes therewith an inheritance of the favored kind.
Man is foolish to fool himself. He can inflict no greater injury upon himself than to throw at his feet an unspotted reputation; for what is a man without a good name? what benefits can he bestow upon society? what consolation can he give to his family? what joy can he afford to his nearest and dearest? Hence all should be careful not to
injure, or be the means, either directly or indirectly, of a loss of any one’s good name. This is a sin of the deepest hue. Restitution can be made for almost every other injury inflicted on one’s neighbor; but for defamation of character, or the wounding of reputation, no restitution can, properly speaking, be made, since things limited in their value cannot be adequate to what is not.
There is another point to which the attention of the young especially might be drawn. It is the business of all to shun calumny and detraction. Calumny, like a wicked serpent is ever on the watch. In its eyes are charms from which no victim can escape; and in its fangs is poison the most deadly. Beware of this destroyer of social happiness! Virtue is its most favored prey. It loves to ensnare it—to sully it. He who would act well his part in life must ever respect his own good name as well as that of others. He must ever consider it a priceless gem that needs to be handled carefully.
—There is, perhaps, no sentence in the English language more frequently quoted than this: “Procrastination is the thief of time.” Yet it would be difficult to find any precept more generally neglected than the one which it implies, or any possession lavished away with such heedless prodigality, as most persons evince in the disposal of time. The necessity of diligence is universally acknowledged ; but it is a necessity to which the mind reluctantly yields, until every excuse for delay has been exhausted, and every suggestion of the imagination that another day will diminish the labor, or increase the ability, has been shown to be illusive.
The absurdity of procrastinating that which cannot eventually be avoided, of deferring to a more convenient season the duties which require present accomplishment, is one of the weaknesses of our nature, which the satirist has derided and the moralist rebuked, but which will be found to exist in some degree or other in every mind, however well stored with knowledge, or regulated by reason.
It is the nature of man to look upon evils with dread, not so much in reference to their magnitude as in proportion to their proximity; distance softening to the mental as to the bodily vision, the ruggedness of mountains into the shadow of smoothness; trivial obstructions that lie immediately before him are viewed with apprehension and avoided with eagerness. Accordingly, by the operation of this principle, days of present ease are willingly purchased at the price of weeks of labor; the heart easily deluding into the belief that the period of ultimate necessity is far off, and that when the mountain is to be climbed augmented vigor will be furnished for the whole task. But vigor is not the result of indolence; and he who suffers the proper time for an action to pass by unimproved will find his difficulties increase and his capability diminish with each succeeding moment of delay, until the fruit, which at first might have been easily plucked, shall hang above his head in irritating mockery, alluring to the eye but'receding from the grasp.
Every man is doomed to roll a heavy harden up the toilsome ascent of years; and every remission of diligence is invariably followed by a necessity of greater exertion. But labor soon becomes light to assiduous industry; while to the dilatory and procrastinating, that which was dreaded
616
THE KoTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
at first seems more and more repulsive; each hour as it passes adds difficulty to difficulty, and each suggestion of fear augments timidity, until the time in which what is neglected might have been accomplished not only elapses but our capacity for effort is dwindled, in consequence of the imbecility which always follows procrastination.
“Be wise to-day; ’tis madness to defer.” It is certain that life cannot be of long duration at any rate, and accident or disease may shorten its brevity; it is therefore required that what is necessary to be done, be done with avidity while yet we may call the day our own. Memory and anticipation are both the friends of Industry, while idleness blushes to look forward. The true way to be happy is to be well and constantly employed; but none are so wretched as they who have nothing to do, who postpone the execution of petty duties until by constant agglomeration they have grown into mountains, which the beholders look upon with feelings of mingled apprehension and remorse.
Certainty of success cannot be proposed as the reward of assiduity, for the grave sometimes engulfs the bark that is but midway of the ocean; but it is ours to be cut off in the career of duty, not reposing in unmanly indo lence; it is ours to die “ with harness on our back,” not slumbering in cowardly supineness afar from the scene of action.
Personal.
—John E. Moon, ’70, is clerk of Brown Co., Hiawatha, Kansas.
—W. Lawless, ’74, is reporter on the Commercial, Cin-cinnnati, Ohio.
—Henry Hearly, ’79, is clerking in a dry-good store, Huntington, Ind.
—Joseph Buchanan, ’79, is book-keeper in his father’s store, Huntington, Ind.
—George Moon (Commercial), ’61, is at present travelling in the interest of the Peerless Reaper & Mower Co., Canton, Ohio.
—We are pleased to learn that John J. Gillen, ’76, has been lately raised to the priesthood at St. Joseph’s Seminary, Troy, New York. Father Gillen has been ordained for the Archdiocese of Boston.
—Among the many visitors at Notre Dame during the past week were Mr. D. G. McGinniss and lady, Ottawa, Ill.; Miss Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio.; Mr. W. Masson and lady, St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. Metz and Mrs. Bender, Chicago, Ill.
—On the 22d ult., at the Seminary of Our Lady of the Angels, Suspension Bridge, New York, Thomas Conway, ’78, was raised to the dignity of the priesthood by Rt. Rev. Bishop Ryan, of .Buffalo. We wish the newly ordained all success.
—James G. Spillard, ’72, has recently gone to San Antonio, Texas, to engage in the practice of law. The Democratic Statesman of Austin, Texas, speaking of Mr. Spil-lard’s departure thence, says: “ Mr. Spillard has been with the well-known firm of Peeler & Maxey, of this city, for several years, and is a young lawyer of marked ability, and in appreciation of his energy, perseverance and courteous and gentlemanly qualities, the above firm on yesterday presented him with a beautiful watch, engraved on the back “ P. & M. to J. G. S.’’ Mr. Spillard is a brother of Father Spillard, C. S. C., of St. Mary’s Catholic Church, of this city, and we commend him to the good people of San-Antonio as being in every way worthy of their confidence and respect.” We also recommend Mr. Spillard to the people of the above-named city, as one possessing all the qualities of a trustworthy and able lawyer.
Local Items.
—Picnics are now in order.
—Catalogues will be out early in July.
—The grounds around Calvary are in splendid condition.
—The classes have commenced reviewing for examination.
—Competitions next week will be in the Commercial Course.
—When will the great dome of the new College be commenced ?
—The last days of May were noted for their rainy propensities.
—Judge Turner’s lecture on last Tuesday evening was appreciated by all.
—The fruit crop around here this year will, by all appearances, be fair.
—The laying, out of the grounds in front of the College is progressing nicely.
—At the procession of Corpus Christi the religious societies were in regalia.
. —Rumor has it that plenty of vocal music is in store for Commencement week.
—The boat crews are practising seriously for the race in Commencement week.
—Who will carry off the prizes and medals of honor at the end of the scholastic year. ?
—Next week the full programme of the Commencement exercises will be published.
—The examination of those presenting themselves for graduation will shortly take place.
—The Valedictorian at the Commencement exercises is Mr. J. B. McGrath, of New York city.
—All at Notre Dame are fast preparing for the examination and the Commencement exercises.
—It is hoped the coming Examination will be even more brilliant than that of last February.
—The work of the College goes bravely on. The halls are splendid, and present a fine appearance.
—There was Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament every evening during the octave of Corpus Christi.
—The College Librarian has reason to feel thankful for the many liberal donations recently made to his library.
—The grounds, of the old Scholasticate, now St. Aloysius’ Home, are certainly the most beautiful around Notre Dame.
—The members of the Boat Club held their annual picnic on Wednesday last in the woods to the rear of the College.
—The Band is having some fine rehearsals. We hope it will put forth its best efforts at the Commencement exercises.
—Bulletins were made but on last Wednesday. There was, as usual, a full attendance of professors, tutors, and instructors.
—The Forty Immortals went to the St Joe Farm on last Wednesday. We suppose they had a lively and pleasant time of it.
—The scenery at Notre Dame is now assuming its enchanting aspect. Few places there are that can compare with it in beauty.
—A. friend has given several beautiful plants to the Minims for their new study-hall. The kind donor has their best thanks.
—The Novitiate grounds are in excellent condition. No pains are spared by the' Novices to make them look as beautiful as possible.
—Hon. James Forrester, of Laporte, has presented a set of Bishop England’s Complete Works, in five volumes, to the Lemonnier Library.
—J. A. Gibbons deserves special praise for the excellent
the not;re^dame scholastic.	bi?
manner in which he discharges his duty as censer-bearer at solemn services and at Vespers.
—Let those young men remember whose fault it is, if at the end of the present term they receive no reward of merit, in the shape of a premium, medal, etc.
—The student who loses his book, and never thinks of hunting it up until he hears his class called, may, no doubt, expect to bear off the honors at Commencement.
—We publish this week a long list of books lately donated to the College libraries; hence, the usual amount of space given to local items is somewhat lessoned.
—The grounds in front of the University building are being put in order at no slow pace. Bro. Bonaventure is bound to have them all right by Commencement Day.
—It is expected that the Rolls of Honor will be unusually large from now until the end of the year. Let the name of no student be missing therefrom henceforward.
—On last Friday morning, the Feast of the Most Sacred Heart, Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger administered the Sacrament of Confirmation to a number of the younger students.
—Bro. Simon is bound to level all the hills around the Professed House. What shall he do when there are no more mountains to be moved, nor no more hills to be levelled?
—It would be well for all to understand that Sundays and Holydays of obligation are scarcely fit days on which to visit Notre Dame. On other days, of course, visitors shall receive every attention.
—The game of baseball on last Wednesday between the Actives and Mutuals of the Junior Department, for championship, was one of the best of the season. The score was 5 to 0. Time, one hour and forty minutes.
—A certain tutor treated his class to an ice-cream and strawberry lunch on last Tuesday afternoon. With this the boys are delighted, and say, who would play pranks on such a generous and off-handed tutor! We say so, too.
—The 33d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Saturday, May 29. W. J. McCarthy was elected to represent the St. Cecilians on Society Day. At this meeting W. McCarthy read an essay on the life of St. John Chrysostom.
—We had occasion last week to say a word about the’ non-fulfillment of duty on the part of some of our secretaries. We are glad to be able to state, however, that as a rule they do their duty, and, with the exception of one or two of these individuals, we have no fault to find.
—On last Sunday, Solemn High Mass was celebrated at ten o’clock in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Rev. N. Stoffel being celebrant, assisted by Rev. A. Kirsch as deacon, and Rev. J. Scherer as subdeacon. After the first Gospel, a solid and instructive sermon was preached by Rev. J. O’Keeffe.
—Very Rev. Father General has given some handsome prizes to Master G. G. Tourtilotte, A. J. Campeau, J. T. Smith, and A. Van Mourick as a reward for their exertions in bringing students to the University. Very Rev. Father General has the sincere thanks of his Minims for these precious souvenirs from his venerated hand.
—At the meeting of the resident Alumni, held on last Wednesday week, several committees were appointed to receive visitors during the Commencement exercises. These commitees are made up of the officers of the University and members of the Faculty, and consequently it is hoped that all visitors will receive due attention.
—With this issue of the Scholastic we bid farewell to our horticulturist, and leave him in peace to ponder over the production and destruction of trees. If he’s good at one, he’s excellent at the other; and if he’s able to cut down a tree without any mercy, we must remember he’s able to plant one in its place. How wonderful are the men of the nineteenth century! We have them of all kinds, weather prophets not excepted.
—There is no time of the year in which students should apply themselves with more earnestness and assiduity to their studies than during the few weeks that now remain between this and Commencement. Examination will now
be soon in order, and let all remember that those only who shall have passed through it satisfactorily may expect to be promoted next September. We hope, then, all will do their best, and make the coming Examination worthy of special remembrance by the Faculty.
—The members of the Artistic Drawing Class must have been very industrious this session to be able to produce and exhibit in so short a time so many and such creditable specimens as may be seen in their class-room. Among the largest drawings, John Seeger, of Dubuque, Iowa, has two figure pieces,—one from the antique, in crayon, and the other of our Saviour, in pencil. He also has a Haier Dolorosa nearly finished. Harry Dunn, Marshall Olds, and Geo. Touriillotte, for pupils so young, show remarkably good specimens. In landscape, figure, and animal drawing, a crayon head, not marked, from a plaster cast of Ajax, shows stippling and a touch sufficiently delicate for a hand matured by long practice.
—Mr. P. Fox, Catholic publisher and bookseller, 14 South Fifth Street, St. Louis, has sent to Bro. Francis de Sales for the Lemonnier Circulating Library the following books: Bridge’s Ancient History; The Jesuits, Feval; Reunion of Christian Communions, De Stark; The Church and Science, Wiseman; Government of the Papal States, Editor Dublin Review; Sunday Monitor, Baker; Stumbling-Blocks made Stepping-Stones, Moriarity; Memoirs of the Irish Martyrs of the 17th and 18th Centuries, Miles O’Reilly; Biographical Sketch of Mother Margaret Mary Hallihan; Five Minute Sermons by the Paulists; The Sac-ramentals, Rev. William J. Barry; The Abbey of Ross, Oliver Burke; Conversations of a Catholic Missionary with Americans, Rev. John C. Perrodin; The Catholic Christian, Chailoner; The Elements of Intellectual Philosophy, Rev. J. De Concilio; St. Martha’s Home, or Work for Women, Emily Bowles; Faith and Fancy, John Savage; Poor Man’s Catechism, Mannoch; The Spiritual Mirror; Devotions for the Month of May, A priest of St. Louis.
—A. Appleton & Co., publishers, 549 & 551 Broadway, v New York., have generously donated the following volumes to the College Library: Elements of Geology, Joseph Le Conte; A Short History of Natural Science and of the Progress of its Discovery from the Time of the Greeks to the Present Day, Arabella B. Buckley; Second Book of Botany, Eliza A. Youmans; Boys and Girls in Biology, S. H. Stevenson; The Fairy-Land of Science, Arabella B. Buckley; Education as a Science, Alexander Baine; Principles and Practice of Teaching, James Johonnot; Mental Science, a Compendium of Psychology and the History of Philosophy, Alexander Baine; A General History of Greece, G. W. Cox; History of the World, J. D. Quackenbos; Three Centuries of English Literature, Charles L. Younge; Development of English Literature; The O:d English Period, Brother Azarias; Valerie Aylmer, A Novel, Tide and Other Stories, Christian Reid, Addle A Tale, Julia Kavanagh; Beatrice, Julia Kavanagh; Daisy Burns, a Tale, Julia Kavanagh; and others. For this generous donation Appleton and Co. have the grateful thanks of the College authorities.
—Books placed in the Lemonnier Library during the past week: Lingards History of England, 13 vols.; Henry’s History of Great Britain, 12 vols.; Andrews Continuation of Henry’s History of Britain, 2 vols.; Hum&’s History of England, 8 vols.; Smollett’s History of England, 5 vols.; McCauley’s History of England, 5 vols.; McGee’s History of Ireland, 2 vols.; Robertson’s History of Scotland, 3 vols.; Flannigan’s British and Irish History; Mylin’s History of England; O’Halloran’s History of Ireland, 3 vols.; Taylor’s Pictorial History of Scotland; Robertson’s History of India; Robertson’s History of America, 4 vols.; Goldsmith’s History of Rome; Hooke’s Roman History, 11 vols.; Mitford’s History of Greece; Ranken’s History of France, 9 vols.; Samuel Johnston’s Works, 12 vols.; Mel-moth’s Cicero’s Letters, 3 vols.; Murray’s Discoveries, 7 vols.; China the and Chinese, Chas. Sirr, 2 vols.; Hoole’s Orlando, 5 vols.; Collection of English Poems, 10 vols.; Lord Bacon’s Works, 10 vols.; British Encyclopaedia, 8 vols.; Encyclopaedia Britannica, 42 vols. W. W. Miller, of Madison Street, Chicago, has the thanks of the Asaocia-

TfiE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tion for Froude’s Romance, called a History of England, 12 vols.; History of the Mass, O’Brien.
—The first game of base-hall for the Junior championship, between the Active and Mutual Base-ball Clubs, took place on last Wednesday. The game was a most interesting one. The following is the score:
ACTIVES.
R. O.
MUTUALS.
R. O.
J. Gibbons, 2d b......
A. Rock, c...........
P. Nelson, r. f.......
F. Kleine, 1st b.....
E.	Sugg, c. f.........
R. O’Connor, p........
J. Scanlan, s. s.....
F.	Glade, 3db.........
F. Philips, 1. f......
Total...............
A. Hellebush, 1st b.... J. Seeger, s. s...... A. A. Caren, 3d b.... F. C. Scheid, c...... A. J. Buerger, 1. f.. J. McCarthy, 2d b.... J. Browne, r.f....... F. Dever, p.......... J. O’Neill, c. f.....
Total..............
0 27
SCORE BY INNINGS.
	1	to	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	
ACTTVER.						0	4	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	—5
MUTUAU3.. . . 			o	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	
										
Umpire—A. Lent.
Scorers—A. Payro, and B. Tate.
Time of game—1% hours.
J —Mrs. Charlotte Lindemann, of Cumminsville, Ohio, has kindly donated to the College Library the whole of “ The Sunday-School Library ” published by the Catholic Publication Society, New York, and comprising the following books: Madeleine the Rosfere, Crusade of the Children, Tales of the Affections, Adventures of Travel, Truth and Trust, Select Popular Tales, The Rivals, The Battle of Lepanto, etc., Scenes and Incidents at Sea, The School-boys and the Boy and the Man; Little Rose, Flores-tine, Nettlethorpe, the Miser; Tales of Naval and Military Life, Harry O’Brien, and Other Tales, The Hermit of Mount Atlas, Leo, or the Choice of a Friend; Antonio, or the Orphan of Florence; Tales of the South of France, Stories of Other Lands, Emma’s Cross and Other Tales; Uncle Edward’s Stories, Joe Baker, The Two Painters, Bad Example, May-Day, and Other Tales; James Chapman, The Young Astronomer, and Other Tales; Angel Dreams, Ellerton Priory, Idleness and Industry, The Hope of the Katzekopis, St. Maurice, The Young Emigrants, Angels’ Visits, Scrivener’s Daughter and Orange Girl, Tales of Catholic Artists, Honor O’More’s Three Homes, Sir jElfric, and Other Tales; Select Tales for the Young, Tales for the Many, Frederick Wilmot, The Apprentice and Other Sketches; Mary Benedicta, and Other Stories; Faith and Loyalty, and the Chip Gatherers, Agnes, and Other Sketches; Lame Millie and The Chapel ofjthe Angels. The generous donor has the grateful thanks of the College authorities.
—Our friend John, being asked to write an essay, handed in the following, which he claims to be original, having produced it after the lapse of thirty-six consecutive hours of hard mental labor: “Tnough I am no advocate of what ' is called horse-laughter, which is an infallible index of high-breeding, yet, what a glorious health-giving thing is a convulsing, well-modulated, hearty laugh 1
It blessings to the heart doth bring More numerous than a sticking-plaster Which doctors think cures all disaster.
Pervadeth it does the remotest bays, inlets, gulfs, channels, and straits of the veinous and arterial systems—shedding its benign influence over the whole individual person, dispensing blessings, rich and rare, along its path, shaking the human figure to its very centre, nay, even to its vasty depths; causing it to send forth tidal waves, blessed har-bengers of peace, laden with messages of health and beauty to the surface of the corpus homo. It shames the mouth of calumny and detraction, opening therein a well-spring of kindness and brotherly love. It is a thing of beauty—
a joy forever, that leaves no sting behind, except under the short ribs,
Which soon takes flight At the approach of might.
In time of sickness, a hearty, jolly, rib-splitting laugh is a tonic far superior to Hostetter's Bitters, and casts in the shade all the quack nostrums of Doctor PM-bags. It influences the blood-nerves and imparts with facility its vivifying benedictions to all the ramifications of the human anatomy. The laughter-loving youth is capable of dispelling all the concentrated gloom of a whole army of irogs, toads, mice and rats, and imparts a shock of electricity far more beneficial to the human corporality than ever was dreamt of by the antipodes of pre-historic times; in a word, it is the true source of earthly enjoyment, good, bad, and indifferent.’’
—D. and J. SADLIER de CO., the veteran Catholic Publishers of No. 31 Barclay Street, New York, have very generously presented the following works to the Lemonnier Library Association. All the books are bound in the best of style, and printed by the donors, who are conspicuous for the noble work they are doing in promoting the cause of Christian education: Cardinal Manning’s Select Works, 4 vols.; Banim’s Works, 10 vols.; The Peep O’Day, or John Doe and Crohoore; The Croppy, a Tale of the Irish Rebellion of 1798; The Mayor of Wingap; Canvassing; The Bit O’Writing and other Tales; The Boyne Water; The Denounced, or The Last Baron of Crana; The Conformist; Peter of the Castle, and the Fetches, Father Connell and Other Tales; The Ghost Hunter and his Family and Clough Fion; The Lile of John Banim; Carleton’s Works, 10 vols.; Willie Reilly, and his Dear Colleen Bawn, Jane Sinclair; The Fawn of Springvale; The Dead Boxer; Ellen Duncan; The Proctor’s Daughter; The Emigrants of Ahadarra; The Tithe Proctor; The Black Prophet; Valentine McClutchy; Fordorugha The Miser; Tales and Stories; The Irish Rapparee; Tubber Derg, Red Weil; The Poor Scholar; The Black Baronet; The Evil Eye, or the Black Spectre; Gerald Griffin’s Works, 10 vols.; The Collegians, a Tale of Garryowen; Tales of the Munster Festivals; The Card Drawer; The Half Sir; Suil Duhe; The Aylmers of Ballyaylmer; The Hand and Word; The Barber of Bantry; The Rivals and Tracy’s Ambition; Talis Qualls, or Tales of The Jury Room; The Dake of Monmouth; Tales of the Five Senses and Night al Sea; The Poetical Works and Tragedy of Gysipus; The Invasion; A Tale of Conquest; Life of Gerald Griffin, by his Brother; Lover’s Works, 5 vols.; Handy Andy; Rory O’More; Legends and Stories of Ireland; Treasure Trove; Songs, Ballads and Poetical Works; Lorenzo, or The Conscript; Bresciani; Tangled Paths, Mrs. Dorsey; Rosemary, Dr. Huntingdon; Public School Education; Brownson’s Essays and Reviews Chiefly on Theology; Politics and Socialism; Alvira the Heroine of Vesuvius; A Tale of the XVII Century Founded on Facts; Rose Le Blanc; Only a Waif; Dalaradior; Maddalina the Orphan of the Via Appia; Irene of Armorica; Dyb-ington Court; Life of St. Elizabeth; Fabiola, Wiseman; The Convert, or Leaves from my Experience, by O. A. Brownson; Perry’s Instructor; Callista, Cardinal Newman; Gile’s Lectures on Irish Subjects; Strange Memories; Lile of Margaret Mary Bourgeois; Martyrs of the Coliseum, O’Reilly; Life of Christopher Columbus, Knight; Pictures of Christian Heroism; Disappointed Ambition, Stewart; Alice Harmon; Arthur Maguire; Virtues and Defects; Duties of Young Men; Cobbet’s Reformation; Mission of Death; Rome and the Abbey; Conversation on Liberalism and the Church, O. A. Brownson; Heroines of Charity; Lily of Israel; Hermit of the Rock; Florence McCarthy; Vacation Days; Barbara Lugh; McCarthy Moore; Elenor Preston; Sick Calls; Gretchen’s Gift; Orphans Friend; Con Regan, Ethel Hamilton; Spanish Cavaliers ; The Pope’s Niece; Idleness; The Vendetta and Other Tales; Father Shuhey; The Daughter of Tyrconnel; A Tale of the Reign of James the First; Wilhelm and Agnes Brauneberg a Story of the Reign of Philip II; Lady Amabel and the Shepherd Boy; The Art of Suffering; Benjamin, or The Pupil of the Christian Brothers; Valeria The Exile of Tadmore; Tales and Stories, Translated from the French, by Mrs. J. Sadlier; The Abbey of Ross and the Bridegroom of Barna; The Mysterious Hermit; The
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	«19
Blighted Flower; Stories on the Beatitudes; Ten Stories, by Bailey diet; The Poachers and Other Tales; The Story of Winifriede Jones; Keightly Hall; The Pretty Plate, by Huntington; Selim, or The Pacha of Salonica; Clare Maithland; Robert May and Tom Howard, or Well Known to the Police; Olives Rescue; True to the End; The Priest’s Sister and the Inheritance; Jim Fagan and the Boy and the Man; The Vessels of the Sanctuaiy; The Great Day; O’Donnells of Glen Cottage; Betsey Conway; Blakes and Flanagans; Confessions of St. Augustine; Maureen Dhue; Adventurs of a Protestant in Search of a Religion, Moore; The Jesuits, Paul Feval; Lost Son, Mrs. Sadlier; Fate and Fortune; Old Chest; Tales and Senses; Flowers and their Wisdom; Crown of Thorns; Life of St. Joseph; Poor Scholar; Tales and Legends; The Wonders of the Grotto of Lourdes; The Straw-Cutter’s Daughters; Love of Jesus to Penitents; Life of Mary Queen of Scotts, McLeod; The Orphan Sisters; Fickle Fortune; Castle of Rosillon; Eustache Herman; Life of St. Patrick; Life of La Salle; Old and New; The Old House; King and Cloister; The King and Page, Cloister Legends; Catholic Crusoe; Life and Times of St. Bernard; Life of St. Francis de Sales; Life of St. Vincent de Paul; Life of St. Jane Frances de Chantal; Little Crown of St. Joseph; Confessions of an Apostate; Golden Sands, 2 vols.; Life of Christ; Well, Well, a Tale by Wallace ; Barrington’s Rise and Fall of the Irish Nation; Rav-ellings from the Web of Life, Cannon; Life of Father Matthew, Sr. Francis Clare.
Roll of Honor.
. [The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, W. H. Arnold, J. B. Berteling, A J. Burger, J. P. Brice, F. Brennan, F. M. Bell, F. W. Brown, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, Geo. E. Clarke, T. F. Clarke, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, J. A. Dobson, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, G. Harns, Jno. Hunt, W. Hesse, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, P. B. Larkin, F. Lynch, E, Lynch, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. McEniry, J. McIntyre, E. Molitor, C. Moore, T. A Mattingly, L. Mathers, J. R. Marlett, J. Noonan, G. Nester, R. C. O’Brien, J. O’Reilly, J. Osher, G. Pike, L. M. Proctor, W. Ryan, O. Randolph, T. W. Simms, H. C. Simms, J. Solon, P. F. Shea, J. Smith, F. C. Smith, F. X. Wall, H. Wathen, A Meyer, A Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Browne, A. J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, A. A. Burmeister, T. B. Byrne, F. Becker, M. J. Bums, M. G. Butler, G. C. Cas-tenado, F. Carter, A A Caren, A M. Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, H. F. Devitt, 8. T. Dering, J. A Davis, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, F. H. Grever, J. A Gibbons, E. J. Gallagher, L. J. Gibert, A C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A Herrmann, F. R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, J. W. Kuhn, L. S. Keen, 8. Livingston, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, E. C. Orrick, J. P. O’Neill, E. A Otis, A. G. Payro, C. F. Perry, F. B. Phillips, R. M. Parrett, J. A Quinn, G. J. Quinn, C. H. Roberts, C. F. Rietz, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A N. Rohrback, J. A Seeger, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, C. Schneider, C. H. Thiele, C. A Tinley, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Wilder, W. T. Weny, B. Zekind.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. E. Droste, J. J. Smith, H. P. Dunn, W. M. Olds, H. A. Kitz, A. Van Mourick, G. P. Van Mourick, E. A. Howard, J. 8. Courtney, F. Mattes, D. G. Taylor, G. Woodson, C. C. Echlin, J. A Campau, J. W. Bannister, A. J. Kelly, G. C. Knight, A. A. Molander, W. Ayres, H. J. Ackerman, C. Metz, W. V. O’Malley, E. N. O’Donnell, J. E. Johnson, A F. Schmuckle, L. J. Young, C. Young, H. Metz, E. C. Campau, J. H. Dwenger, W. H. Hana-vin, J. M. Courtney.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
• L. Proctor, L. Mathers, T. Kavanagh, J. D. McIntyre, H.
Simms, J. O’Reilly, A Mattingly, J. Hunt, W. Hesse, C. W. McDermott, M. Vedder. J. Gordon, A Hierb, M. Herrick; R. Pomy, F. McPhillips, J. Gibbons, A. Hellebusch, E. Litmer, F. Kleine, J. Larkin, E. Otis, G. Rhodins, H. Bachman, P. Riscbe, L. Coghlin, J. Devitt, O. Farrelly, 8. Dering, A. Manning, N. Weny, F. Johnson, W. Thompson, H. Foote, R. Parrett, G. Butler, V. Butler, J. Casey, B. Casey, W. Schofield, C. Van Dusen, L. Clements, T. Zeien, F. Clarke, C. Schneider.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. C. Echlin, C. E. Droste, J. 8. Smith, G. E. Knight, W. H. Hanavin, J. J. Henry, W. M. Olds, F. Mattes, H. C. Snee, H. A Kitz, E. A. Howard, D. G. Taylor, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, G. Tourtillotte, H. P. Dunn, A. Van Mourick, G. P. Van Mourick, G. Woodson, A. A Molander, J. W. Bannister, J. A. Campau, W. Ayres, J.E. Johnson, J. A. Kelly, W. V. O’Malley, F. B. Farrelly, E. C. Campau, H. J. Ackerman, W. Miller, C. Metz, J. H. Dwenger, E. N. O:Donnell, AF. Schmuckle, H. Metz, J. R. Bender.	.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The Roman Catholic Parish School of Niles, with their Principal, visited the Academy on the 30 ult
—The rare flowers blooming in massive vases, and in various plots upon the grounds, are now in the prime of their glory.
—The monthly Exposition and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament for the Archconfraternity of the Perpetual Adoration took place on Sunday.
—Several handsome pieces of china, decorated by the pupils, are to be seen in St. Luke’s Studio. These specimens are simply indications of what will be on exhibition at the Commencement, in the faience.
—At the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, which was given in the morning and evening of every day during the Octave ol Corpus Christi, the singing has been very beautiful, even to an excep'ional degree.
—On Corpus Christi, seven young girls made their First Communion at early Mass. Their names are as follows: Catharine Lancaster, Mary Josephine Duncan, Bridget Haney, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Marie Paquette, Elize Papin and Elizabeth Consadine. The happy group took their breakfast in the dining-room of the Presbytery. Lovely floral offerings were made to the altar by parents and friends of the children.
Visitors: Rev. John Baptist Francoion, Saute Fe N. M.; Mr. and Mrs. Lamy, Sante Fe. N. M.; Mr. and Mrs. Baca, Mr. and Mrs. McGuime, Belen, N. M.; Mr. McGinnis, Naperville, Ill.; Miss Callinan, Dowagiac, Mich.; Mrs. Power and daughter, Miss Hauser, Three Oaks, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Masson, Miss Papin, St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. Reinhard, Mrs. Costello, Cleveland, O.; Miss Kelly, Toledo; Mrs. Jenkins, Leroy, New York; Mrs. Booth, Mishawaka; Mr. Clafley, Mr. Maloney, Bertrand; Mr. Singler, Miss Singler, Mr. Wiekeg, Plymouth; Mr. Coleman, Elkhart, Ind.; Miss Badet, New London, Conn.; Mr. Wills, Chicago; Miss Grever, Cincinnati, O.; Mrs. Smith, Mrs. Taggart, Circleville, O.; Mrs. Howard, Stanfield, L, Tong, Butts and Fox, South Bend.
—On the 31st, the double festival, so to speak,—the Feast of St. Angela and the closing of the month of May— gifts of no common perfection were made, among which was an altar-ruffle of lace wrought with silk floss. The antependium and canopy used at Benediction are admirable, and were thrown into fine relief by the adornments of the chapel. The usual crowning of the statue formed a bright tableau, which will not soon be effaced from the memory of those present. It was the fitting close to so fair a day. Very Rev. Father General who, in a voice as rich and soulful as it was twenty years ago, had sung the High Hass at six o’clock in the morning, also officiated in the evening. The statue of Our Lady of Luxumburg was placed in a prominent position, and after the usual
620
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
May devotions, the President of the Children of Mary, as sisted by the seven who had made their First Communion on the Feast of Corpus Christi, placed crowns of fresh white blossoms, one on the head of the Infant Jesus, and another on that of the Blessed Virgin. The eight who performed the significant and graceful ceremony were clad in pure white. The members of the Association accompanied the coronation with a beautiful and appropriate hymn.
—The celebration of the Festival of Mother Superior opened by a general Communion at early Mass. At eight o’clock, an address from the entire Academy was read by Miss Cavenor, and congratulations were received. In the afternoon, a select company assembled in the Vocal Hall, and the following programme was presented by the young ladies:
Festive Entertainment in Honor of Mother Superior, May 31, 1880.
Entrance Overture....................Misses Buck and Neu
Address..........................................Minims
Chorus...........................................Alpine
Vocal Class.
German Address..................................Miss	Gall
Harp Solo...................................i.Robin Adair
Miss Galen.
Juniors’ Address...........................Miss	C. Lancaster
Song— “ Summer Birds ”..............................Giebel
Miss Gordon.
Polonaise.........................................Rubenstein
Miss Keenan.
Felicitations Francaises......................Miss	A. Ewing
Song—“ Why are Roses Red?”........................Afelnotte
Miss Kirchner.
Seniors’ Address..............................Miss	M. Ewing
Song—“Nightingale’s Trill”............................Ganz
Miss Silverthorn.
Fantasie..............................................Liszt
Miss Galen.
Address—Children of Mary.....................Miss McGrath
Chorus..........................................    Robert
Vocal Class.
Among the guests from a distance, was Rev. John Baptist Francoion, of Sante Fe, New Mexico. Those from the University were Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C., Rev. Fathers Granger, Reze, Corby, Condon and Walsh. The Rev. Chaplain, Father Shortis, and his Assistant, were also present Among the many charming tokens of affection for the recipient of the festival honors was a little “bird’s nest” of gold pieces, from the infant daughter of Mr. Lamy, of New Mexico. After the Entertainment, Very Father General sent for those young ladies who had been instrumental in bringing other pupils to the Academy. A group of seventeen, or more, responded to the invitation, and all received from him beautiful souvenirs brought from France.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Woodin, Keenan, Hambleton, Ewing, Maloney, Neteler. 1st Senior Class—Misses Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, Rvan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Buck, A. Ewing Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, Kirchner, Gordon, Semmes. 2d Sr. Class—Misses Lloyd, Dillon, Neu. Usselman, Otto, Mitchell, Winston, Claffey, Smith, Walsh, Cronin. 3d Sr. Class—Misses A Dillon, Feehan, Fox, Loeber, Fitzgerald, Donnelly, De Lapp, Gall, English, Julius, Dallas, Wells, Bischoff, Bruser, McMahon, Palmer. C. Wathen, S. Wathen, Taylor. 1st Preparatory Class—Misses Zahm, C. Campbell, O’Connor, Keys, Murphy, Hackley, Lancaster, Simms, Price, Dessaint, Baroux, Gavan. Orr, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Campbell, Butts, French, L. Populorum, Van Namee. 2d Prep. Class—Misses Raeche, Hammond,} Horner, Saloman, McFadden, Thompson, Reinhard, Halloran, Wright, Lemontey, 8. Semmes, E. Hackett, Casey, Crnmmey, Fishburne, Cleghorn, Leyden, Engel, Wurzburg, Keena, Wall, A. Smith. 3d Prep. Class—Misses McCormick, Brown, Edelen, Moxon, Revnolds, Cox, Kreig, Paddock, McCoy, Garrity, J. Wells, E. Dallas, Watson, Joseph, Moll. Jr. Preparatory Class—Misses Ginz, Barlow, Gibbons, Fleming, Legnard, G. Taylor, C. Ryan, McCloskey, Carter, Chirhart, E. Populorum, Rentlinger, E.Ryan. 1st Jr. Class—Misses Knighton, Harrison, Hutchison, Clarke, Considine, T. Ewing, Jaeger, P. Ewing, Fisk, Zimmerman. 2d Jr. Class—Misses M. F. Fitzgerald, Wilkins, Robinson, M. Baroux.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Rosing, Lemontey. 2d Div.— Misses L Semmes, M. Dallas, Cavenor, Neu, A Ewing. 2d Class—Misses Campbell, 8. Wathen, C. Wathen, Butts, Cox.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Gall, Usselman, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Reinbard, Horner, Saloman, Julius. 2d Class—Misses S. Smith, McMahon, C. Hackett, Krieg, Engel, Loeber, Bischoff Cronin. 3d Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, Quinn, Ward, Ginz, A. Dillon, C. Campbell, Rentlinger, Duncan, Butts. 2d Div.— Misses 8. Semmes, Gibbons, Harrison, Carter, Fleming, Chirhart, Hutchison, Casey, Considine, Moll, Jaeger, Joseph, Moxon, Zimmerman, A. Smith.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Woodin, Keenan, Ewing, Hambleton, Maloney, Neteler, Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Buck, A Ewing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, Kirchner, Gordon, L Semmes, Lloyd, Dillon, Neu, Usselman, Otto, Mitchell, Winston, 8. Smith, Walsh, Cronin, Loeber, Fitzgerald, Donnelly, Gall, De Lapp, English, Julius, Dallas, Wells, Bischoff Bruser, McMahon, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Palmer, Taylor, Zahm, Campbell, O’Connor, Keys, Murphy, Hackley, Lancaster, Simms, Price, Baroux, Gavan, Orr, Dessaint, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Hammond, Horner, Saloman, McFadden, Thompson, Reinhard, Rascte, Halloran, Wright, Cleghorn, Leydon, Engel, Wall, Wurzburg, Keena, A. Smith, Edelen, Moxon. Reynolds, Cox, McCormick, Paddock, Brown, Krieg, McCoy, par excellence.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, Feehan, A. Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, Butts, French, L. Populorum, Van Namee, Lemontey, 8. Semmes, E. Hackett, Casey, Crnmmey, Fishburne, Me. N. Garrity, J. Wells, Watson, E. Dallas, Joseph, Moll, G. Taylor, McCloskey, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, Carter, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Duncan, Rentlinger, Chirhart, Barlow, Legnard, E. Populorum, Ginz, Paquette, Clarke, Hutcheson, Harrison, Zimmerman, Fisk, Considine, Jaeger, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Knighton, I. Hackett, B. Garrity, M. F. Fitzgerald, Wilkins, M. Baroux, Campau, par excellence.
'Weeklv Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame's students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, op 70.
TH M A. V JU MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Mile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
tSF" NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O„ Indiana.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	621
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING BAST.
2	25 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, ar-rlves atToledo950; Cleveland230 p.m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11	05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12	16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrive* at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte335 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
0. & N.-W. LINES.

The Chicago & North-Western Bailawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Dlinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Sunerior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CABS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest .Reclining Chair Palace Can to the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tlie Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route 'between the /forth and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Minings districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
Jambs Charlton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager, 210 Dearborn st, near cor. of Adama, Chicago,
UNIVERSITY OP NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
(MAIN BUILDINGS


THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all th -usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farm-’ ing region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake I Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.	£
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.	7
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of	,j
CLASSICS, MATHEMATICS SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.


J 4
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notbe Dame gives a more complete business training than can be ob-^ talned in any purely Commercial College.
c-t
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE	&
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.	?
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.	u
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.	j i
Caialouges, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very^Re^. W. CORBY, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. O. Indiana.
•	I
fe