Notre Dame Scholastic.
JDlsce quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 16, 1880.	Number 5.
What is true knowledge? Is it with keen eye Of lucre’s sons to thread, the mazy way ? Is it of civic rights, and royal sway, And. wealth political, the depths to try? Is it to delve the earth, or soar the sky;
To marshal nature’s tribes in just array ;
To mix, and analyze, and mete, and weigh Her elements, and all her power descry ?
These things, who will may know them, if to know Breed not vainglory: but o’er all to scan
God, in His works and words shown forth below; Creator’s wonders; and Redeemer’s plan;
Whence came we; what to do; and whither go: This is true knowledge, and “ the whole of man.”
Does it Not Concern Ds?
BY GEO. CLARKE.
In this, the unprecedented age of enlightenment, when preachers, teachers, lawyers, doctors, and journalists are flooding the markets, civil society calls loudly for our assistance, and implores us ere it is too late to rescue her from utter ruin. Still we heed not its calls; hut push on-unmindful o( the welfare of others, and labor only for the attainment of our own object and the accomplishment of our own ambitious views. But man has been formed for society; and it has been demonstrated that he is neither capable of living alone, nor has he the courage to do so. But for the welfare of society there must be government and laws; and if government and laws are not observed there can be no society; if no society, no civilization; and if no civilization, man has no occasion for either the ecclesiastical or municipal laws,—he needs but the natural. But men have reached that degree of civilization which prompts them, for their own welfare, to assert their civil, social, and religious rights.
We assert that intelligence is absolutely necessary to perpetuate independence; we maintain that a government for, by, and with the consent of a people can be supported and protected by an educated people alone. But does experience show us that education alone is necessary ? Through the instrumentality of the Catholic Church—the Church planted by Christ and watered by His Blood—the records of past ages are handed us for our perusal and study. They tell us of the continued change of kingdoms and empires; of political storms and sanguinary wars; of nations attaining a high degree of civilization, and a proficiency in the arts and sciences; yet we never ask what caused the overthrow of these enlightened nations. The Athenians and Persians
were once an educated and courageous people, designed by God to be the protector of His chosen people; but indulgence in luxury, and permitting their virtuous dispositions and moral qualities to be superseded by the contrary vices, caused their premature end. That labyrinth offsets —history—tells us that the Romans, for a period of seven hundred years, held undisputed sway over the then known world; when Cicero, Sallust, Nepos, Virgil, and Livy immortalized their names by their writings, which we to-day in this progressive (?) age study and admire; yet their nation—proud Rome—notwithstanding its dramatists, poets, historians, sculptors, architects, and painters; notwithstanding its grandeur, wealth, magnificence, and educated people, met a sad, but common fate: it tolerated luxury and vice, which implanted the seeds of universal corruption, and swept it into that abyss designed for nations that provoked the wrath of God. When we note the sublime words, “ Son of St. Louis, ascend to Heaven,” we picture in our minds the minister of God at the foot of the scaffold for a last time addressing Louis XVI of France, —that heroic ■ martyr whose death occurred during the reign of terror, when all France was deluged in Christian blood, when the Sunday was forgotten, and when, instead of worshipping the Lord of lords and the King of kings, men bowed to the goddess of Reason, and accepted the doctrines of Voltaire, Danton, and Robespierre. Not a century ago, the greatest general that the world ever produced made his debut on the European stage. Of an enlarged mind and comprehensive genius, adorned with all the graces and gifts of a thorough education, adhering to the doctrines of his Creed, he was soon at the front rank, where, distancing all competitors, he made Europe “ tremble at the terror of his name.” But, blinded by success, he soon acknowledged no superior; worshipped no God but ambition; he even annexed the ecclesiastical states to his own dominions, and threw into captivity the representative of his Maker. From that moment, nature rebelled; and defeat at Waterloo terminated his ambitious career. But soon after, we find on a remote island in the Atlantic, him “ who had made kings, and disposed of courts and crowns,” where he passed the remainder of his days, with but few companions, and a priest, who had been sent him to administer the last rites of that religion he once thoughtlessly abandoned.
These are but few of the many instances in which a godless education for a time predominated and religion was forgotten; where the mind was educated, but the soul neglected; where mortals thought God was made for man, and not man for God. Should not these lessons produce upon our minds salutary effects? Should we not eschew the paths which lead to a similar end ? Have we not sufficient examples of well-educated nations that God
66
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in His justice visited with terrible results? We seem surprised at the fast ways of the rising generation. No more do we revere the silvered hair and wrinkled face; that honored word father, and that sweet word mother, are effaced from our vocabulary. Foreigners tell us that we Americans bold the Fouith Commandment as applicable to more ancient days. We ourselves blush at the slang phrases creeping into use, and even utilized by our literary journals; yet we continue in the blindness of our course. “Educate educate,” we cry; and the same is proclaimed in our legislative halls. Every hill and vale, town and city, are dotted with our godless schools; and we point to them as the institutions wherein our future statesmen, and brain-workers in general, must drink in that knowledge necessary for the perpetuation of the work of their illustrious forefathers.
Now that we continue in our glorious (?) career, we should have something to show- some result that would make us feel proud of our national system of education; we should feel that we are in seme way remunerated for the immense amount of money annually expended in the support of that system. These institutions, about which our Protestant friends write in such a laudatory manner, which they consider the very pillars and bulwarks of our government, should furnish us with many examples illustrative of their benefical influence Yet, why say this? Is the immaculate robe of white still the appropriate garb for the political officials ? Are not their cohesive powers augumented by the current of dishonesty ? Do they not season to the palate, and pander to the taste of public opinion? Do they not conceal what is repugnant, and hold up prominently what is suitable to the popular gaze? With the cloak of religion, do they not cover their corrupted forms, and endeavor to ingratiate themselves into the favor of the good ? Intemperance is on the increase; vice is cloaked with the semblance of virtue. Are there not more votaries at the shrine of polygamy and impurity than at the altar of matrimonial unity and purity ? Rome, during the reign of Romulus, when inhabited by a motly band of adventurers, for the space of five hundred years, had not a single divorce case. Can we produce a similar record for the short time we have existed as a nation? Vice and corruption of every grade are permeating every pore of what is called society. Pass along the streets of one of our leading cities, and judge of the alluring snares for the young. Examine them when night has covered the earth with her sable mantle. As far as the eye can reach, an array of lamps, lighting up the way to the dens of drunkenness, infamy and vice, meet your gaze; saloons, billiard-halls, reading-rooms, shooting-galleries, and clubrooms innumerable, filled with rising youths, are seen on every corner; that structure, in front of which is suspended a red light, is the “delmonico,” the “home-circle,” or the “dew-drop inn,” where the boys meet to while away their leisure hours. The entrance is adorned with stained glass, through which peer lights of varied hue; from without can be heard the noise of a piano, or the strains of a violin, accompanied by a rising vocalist; the clicking of glasses, the sound of billiard-balls, and the blasphemous oaths of a player, tell us of the scenes within. We enter, and what do we behold: a room lit up with rays of light streaming from costly gas-jets; the ceiling painted and frescoed; the walls hung with mirrors, and pictures the most indecent and obscene; in the corners stand images and statues cut in anything but chaste forms.
Here and there are tables covered with periodicals and immoral publications, deadly as poison; while in remote corners of the room are seated in groups those whom nature had destined for stations more noble. The inflamed eyes, the reddened cheeks and fevered brows, together with the vile expressions and blasphemous oaths of the participants, tell us that ihe hand of a demon, that never relents his firm and deadly gra=p, rules here with an iron rod.
This is but one of the gambling resorts; there are others lower, more degrading—yes, damnable—in the scenes they present. But let us tarry not here; for ’tis useless for us to visit such places for the purpose of confirming our assertions. Look at the daily papers. Their pages are filled with accounts of scandal in the families of the public’s servants: deiaulting-cashiers, bank-robberies, patricides, fratricides, and that most heinous of all crimes, infanticide. Why so many cold-blondi d murders and suicides? Why so many prisons and Stale penitentiaries? Why so many of Ingeisoll’s stamp? Why are the livas of the European sovereigns so frequently threatened? Why si many Communists and Socialists? Education without religion explains the cause. Visit the prisons, and ask the condemned criminal on the scaffold the cause of his sad fate. Ask him his history. He will reply: “I was once a young man like you; a devoted father and an affectionate mother beheld me with pride. My aspirations were assimilated to yours. When I enlisted in the engrossing cares of manhood, I was possessed of a classical education, with wealth at my command. I made my debut, and entered into the gay scenes of pleasure. I hoped to accomplish something worthy of admiration; but the company I kept, the haunts I frequented, the habits I acquired, the education I possessed, ruined me, and with tenacious grasp brought me to this untimely and disgraceful end. During all my college course I had been taught that religion emanated from sophisms—that it was a farce. For proof, I was cited the opinions of scientists, philosophers, and historians; Kantism, Idealism, Empiricism, Mythism, Rationalism, Atheism, obscured my visions. Disregard for veracity, honesty and morality followed; and never, till my incarceration, had I been taught to utter the sweet Name of Jesus.
This is always the sequel to a godless training; still we heed it not, and rush madly on. Can the Catholics of the United States feel justified in aiding such a cause? Yet this they are compelled to do. They kiss the hand that smites them when they dare to name a candidate for public office; he is held ineligible for being a Catholic. This is one of the vital issues of the hour. On the one hand, we find the leader of a party decried because his wife received her education within the hallowed precincts of a convent; while, on the other, a party nominates one who, from youth to manhood, has breathed nothing but prejudice. Encased in the panoply of patriotism, he cried Sectarianism at the Little Sisters of the Poor. He, true to his training, prefers women who court notoriety, under the banner of a “ Christian Association,” to those who fearlessly dispute the strides of pestilence, and who on bended knee console the fallen, even when within range of the cannon’s fire.
We are asked for our co-operation in the promotion of unscrupulous wickedness and insatiable covetousness. But remember that “ consistency is a jewel which only sparkles on the brow of truth.” We respect the laws of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
67
our country; but we also revere the precepts of our holy religion. We will accept no palliating excuses; we demand our rights, and will never give up until we receive them. Our platform is: “ Education without religion belongs to those who know of no hereafter.” Education without religion is conducive to tyrannical rule, and degenerates into the hot bed of infidelity, with its concomitant evils. Education with religion belongs to those who, like us, know their existence is only probationary; that time is nothing, and eternity never-ending; that education, under the guidance of religion, effectuates the pursuance of a proper course on life’s journey, and the attainment of a place in that abode for which every Christian has been destined.
Journalistic Venom.
The dark days of Know-Nothingism have passed away, leaving naught in its trail on the page of history save the slimy track of infamy, which stigmatizes every movement or institution of that description. What was Know-Nothingism? It was an institution resulting from the bigoted and limited brains of some Eastern politicians, worthy sons of still more worthy sires; who, driven from England as disturbers of the national peace, assumed the cloak of religion in the New World, that they might the better persecute, in the sacred name of religion, all who would not conform to their cold and fanatic ideas of theology.
The original projector of Know-Nothingism claimed that the United States was the home of American-born citizens alone; that foreigners had no right to share in the government thereof; and, finally, that as foreigners were in creasing with alarming rapidity, the glorious constitution of the fathers of ’76 stood in imminent danger of being overthrown; therefore, it was the duty of every true patriot to use his influence towards not only the suppression of farther immigration, but also deprive their foreign neighbors of the common right of citizenship. This movement would appear to a casual observer as strictly a polit-cal scheme; but it was more. The real object of its institution was to strike a deadly blow at the rapidly increasing Catholic Church in the Eastern States. Gradually the movement spread westward; and finally the entire northwest and east resounded with the motto of the time-worn and ragged standard of English persecution: “ No Popery.” Beyond the burning of some religious institutions and churches, together with sundry riots in the larger cities, the Church suffered nothing serious from it.
I stated in the beginning of my essay that Know-Nothingism was passed and gone, and some of the readers of the Scholastic will no doubt be inclined to ask: “ Why rake up the ashes of oblivion, and expose a past evil, which will not tend to increase harmony in present society?” The question seems a pertinent one, indeed; and I will endeavor to answer it. True, as an organization, Know-Nothingism is no more; but its spirit still exists, and lurks in a quarter where it would least be expected. I refer to the so-called Evangelical press. My object is not to create any ill-feeling, or to wound the religious sentiments of anyone, but merely to expose how persons may be imposed upon who are not posted on both sides of any question. Journals of this class, I am happy to state,— ■ and that, too, from experience—have no standing with ed
ucated and fair-minded persons, who share the same religious opinions as the editors of such journals. The two principal strings upon which they sound their notes of dismal and grating discord are: first, that all Catholics are bound by oath to obey all mandates of the Pope, and are only waiting for a chance to put the government of these States into his hands; to do this they will sacrifice all things, even their lives. The second is the threadbare and rotten string of the “ Public School Question.” Of course, controversy is a vital part of religious journalism; and when they carry on an intelligent “ war of words,” bringing forward dates and proofs for all assertions, it constitutes both profitable and interesting reading. But when a sheet, dignified by the name of a religious journal, stoops so low as to publish a deliberate lie for the purpose of venting the personal spleen of the editor against a respectable community, he brings upon himself the just contempt and ostracism of his own constituents. I wish to be distinctly understood concerning the above remarks; they do not refer toany of the non-Catholic journals which have awide-spread, respectable, circulation; and which, while they certainly do enter into the controversy on- theological questions, their editors conduct themselves in a manner which the dignity of their profession requires. My remarks refer to those bigoted, ranting sheets, which, though published in large cities, are circulated altogether in the rural districts, where they are certain of finding ignorant persons ever ready to snap at a hook, when baited with the savory calumnies which had been prepared to cast upon the Pope and Catholicism in general.
Why all this warfare against the Catholics ? What did they do in years past, or what are they doing now, that these buzzards and vultures should be forever trying to get at their vitals? Let us go back to the very beginning of civilization in this great land, and see what “foreigners and Papists ” have done to entitle them to recognition in their adopted country. First, as every school-boy knows, in the year of grace, 1492, the 12th of October,—in the person of Christopher Columbus—they discovered America. Nay, more: this archcriminal immediately after landing planted a high cross, and took possession of the land in the Name of God, and of the sovereigns of Spain; then, “ worse, and more of it,” he had Mass celebrated on the new found shore as a means of thanksgiving to the Almighty for their safe arrival. Furthermore, he criminated himself, and all who might share his faith, by conferring the name of San Salvador (Holy Redeemer) upon the beautiful island on which he first landed. But, thanks to the rapid improvement in morals and religion, its name has been changed by men more erudite and more sensible than poor Columbus; they conferred upon it a name suggestive of peace and harmony,—one that a poet would select, after contemplating the n atural beauties of the place: Cat Island !
Next we find the “ Papists ” sending zealous missionaries from Europe to the wilds of both North and South America, converting the savages from paganism to the truths of religion. These men, devout sons of Francis, Dominic, and Loyola, left their homes and loved ones in the vineclad hills of Spain to go forth as second apostles into the trackless wilds of the New World, with no defence or riches save a crucifix and breviary; to encounter naught but hardships and misery; or, oftener still, to win a martyr’s crown by the excruciating tortures of the savages. Later, when the iron red of persecution was felt alike by Protestants and Catholics in England, great numbers of all
68
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
religious denominations emigrated to America to seek in the forest and among the untutored savages that liberty of conscience which was denied them in a civilized country. We find the pious Puritans applying the thumb-screw of persecution to the Catholics who chanced to settle in their midst. But it must be said that it was not the Catholics alone who felt the rod of Puritan persecution: Protestants also who would not accept the doctrines rf Puritanism were persecuted. History tells a pretty little anecdote of these godly (?) men, with regard to their charitable treatment of a prominent member of their number, named Rodger Williams, who was forced to flee from his civilized (?) brethren in mid-winter, and seek a home among the savages of Rhode Island. But how widely different was the conduct of Lord Baltimore, when he established his colonial government in Maryland! The colony, it is true, was entirely Catholic; but Rodger, with a magnanimous spirit, rendered more charitable still by scenes of persecution in the mother-country, proclaimed religious liberty to all.
Another “Gospel” lie put forth by these “evangelical ” buzzards is, that the Romish Church favors “daiknessof the understanding” and ignorance: referring with holy horror to the Middle or “Dark” Ages, when education was withheld from everyone save the monks and priests. This story will hardly be accepted by the student of medieval history, whq,kuows that during'this very time, and under the direct influence of the Church, education flourished in all parts of Europe. It was at this time that the celebrated universities of Paris, Oxford, Prague, Padua, and numerous others of equal merit, were in the z-nith of their glory; when they were attended not by hundieds but by thousands of students. Let us come down to our own day, and nearer home. Tne institutions of public education in this country, under Catholic auspices, are scattered broad cast throughout the land; they open wide their doors to all, ai.d at cheaper rates than other institutions of a similiar character (I refer to colleges and universities). How well their system is appreciated by non Catholics is best illustrated by the number of Protestant scholars who attend them. I would like to dwell at greater length upon this subject, but time and space will not allow it; however, I hope that, the few statements made will serve as an illustration of the contempt which a bigoted fanaticism in the journalistic profession will bring upon its propagators.
•	Exlex.
Art, Music and Literature. ’
—Pastel bids fair to supersede crayon drawing for portraits.
—Dore has completed a grand case picture called “ Moses before Pharaoh.”
—Alfred Jaell, the pianist, and his wife, took part in a recent concert at Spa.
—Victor Hugo will, on the 15th of October, publish a poem entitled “L’Ame.”
—Prof. Keil’s bronze statue of Field-Marshal von Wron-gel will soon be erected in Berlin.
—A new opera, *‘Witi Kind,” by Fr. De Doss, has been produced at the College St. Servais, Liege.
—Mrs. Billington, the famous pianist and vocalist, when bpt eleven years old composed two sets of piano forte so-uatas.
—The Hinrichs, of Leipzig, are bringing out a third edition, in lour volumes, of Overbeck’s “ Geschichte der • Gricchischen Plastik.”
—In France and Germany’ etching on marble, lithograph stone, and ivory, has been introduced lately as an artistic occupation for ladies.	-
—The reason why Beethoven, Haydn, Mozait, Spohr, Weber, and many other celebrated composers, have written nothing for the organ, is, that they were not skilful per-tormers on it.	.
—In consequence of his conversion to the Catholic faith, Mr. Stanley, ihe famous English tenor, will, for a season at least, devote himself to the study of sacred music. He has left London and is in Milan.
—The Boston Courier announces that there is in that city the manuscript journal of a distinguished American woman who lived in Paris during the reign of the first Napoleon. The manuscript is said to be admirable, and a peculiarly apt supplement to the Remusat Memoirs, giving, as it does, the impressions of an American woman concerning the men and events of that time. . Negotiations for its publication are in progress.
—Of Woltmann’s " History of Painting,” the first part complete in itself, and treating of “Ancient, Early Christian and Medieval Painting,” will be published within a few weeks. The untimely death of Prof. Woltmann, in the spring of this year, will not prevent the early completion of the second part, which is being carried on from materials which he had prepared, by his colleague, Dr. Woermann, and will be issued within a few months.
—Oliver Wendell Holmes summered at Beverly, but intended returning tn Boston early in October; John G. Whittier has left Amesbury and now resides at Danvers, wberehe occupies himself with literary and agricultural pursuits; George Bancroft is still busy at Newport with his “History of the United States,” and continues his daily horseback exercises; and Longfellow has abandoned Nahant for the season for his fine’ old Colonial mansion at Cambridge.
—There is in the British Museum an old volume of bound pamphlet, presented by King George III, in which is the following passage: “A drunkard is the annoyance of modesty, the trouble of civility, the spoil of wealth, the distraction of reason. He is the brewer’s agent, the tavern and ale-house benefactor, the beggar’s companion, the constable’s trouble. He is his wife’s woe, his children’s sorrow, his neighbor’s scoff, his own shame. In summer he is a tub of swill, a spirit of sleep, a picture of a beast, and a monster of man.”
—Two of Fra Angelico's frescoes which adorned the walls of the Convent of S. D-iminico at Fiesole, the birth place of the artist, have been removed from there to France. One of these, representing Christ on the Cross, with the two Maries at the sides, sixteen feet in height, and proportionately wide, has been safely detached from the wall of the convent by the purchaser of it, Signor Stefano Dardini, who sold it for 4,000 francs to the museum of the Louvre, at Paris. With the consent of the Government, this fresco intact, save a slight restoration in damaged parts, has been dispatched to its destination. The other fresco, representing the Blessed Virgin and Child, surrounded by other figures, about seven feet in height, and of corresponding width, has been purchased by Signor Mazzanti, who cut it from the wall to a depth of twenty centimetres, and had it brought to his studio. It has been considerably restored.
—M. Nachstheim, a well-known music publisher at Brussels, has just presented to the museum of the Conservatory Royal de Musique of that city the original Maelzel metronome, which bears date 1815, the year in which Maelzel had the patent granted to him. The Belgians thus imagine that, they possess the first metronome ever made, but it has already been abundantly proved that . this is not the case. The glees of Webbe, Cro'ch. Horsley and others are metronomed, although the machine then in. use (a long tape, leaded and maiked off in inches) was so cumbersome that it was practically useless. In the “Singing Tutor” of Affilard, published very early in the eighteenth century, the use of a “pendule”- is r<commended, while a “chronometer” to “mark the time of the various movements,” made by Etienne Lnulie in 1696, is, we believe, still preserved in the museum of the Paris Conservatoire. Loulie’s invention was mor ifi d in 1807 by Jeanne Etienne Dtspreaux, while in the Journal fur Deutschland in 1796 the invention of the metronome is claimed for Herr J. 8.. Stock el, of Burg. The invention of the Maelzel metronome was really shared by'the Duch inventor Winkel, and these two first produced a metronome which was portable. The metronome niesented to the museum of the Conservatoire Royal de Musique of Brussels is of pyraimdcal form, and is in most resnecls similar to the instrument in use at the present day.—Musical Record.
—Mr. Mark M. Pomeroy—better known as “ Brick ”
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
69
Pomeroy—in commenting upon the intended visit to this country of Miss Sarah Bernhardt, says;
“ She will be accompanied by one of her sons. Though never married, she has four children. The most fashionable people will receive, entertain and make a pet of her in New York and elsewhere. But if any poor, ignorant, deluded girl, less known to fame, were to become mother of even one child without being a wife, these same people would cast her aside as a contamination, and spit upon her. Where is the fairness or consistency of such discrimination ? Sarah, knowing better, deliberately and repeatedly violated the moral law, so that she can scarcely tell who the father of any of her several children is. and yet she is welcomed by the wealthy, and made much of by all. But if a poor girl, through innocence of youth, cruel deception, and ignorance of the ways of the world, fall even once, she is ever afterward spurned, spit upon and kept in the gutter.”
If the foregoing be a true description of Miss Sarah Bernhardt’s moral, or rather immoral character, and from what we have read of her we have uo doubt it is—she should be carefully avoided by every American lady and gentleman, —treated like any other common prostitute. She made it her boast in Europe that America but waited the opportunity to fall at her feet and do her homage—will any American so far forget himself, and the duty he owes to the circle of his virtuous and honored relatives and friends, as to patronize the performances of such a degraded being as Miss Sarah Bernhardt? We hope not; and we hope the American press will do itself honor by loading her with the opprobrium she deserves.
new telescope, which cost about $15,00, is to be placed in charge of Prof. L. Swift. The tube of the'new instrument is twenty-two feet in length, while the lens is sixteen inches in diameter.
; —America has good reason to feel proud of its astrono-j mers. Among the prominent revelations which they have made to the world maybe mentioned the following: the separation of Biella’s comet into two parts in 1845; the discovery of the eighth satellite of Saturn in 1848; the discovery^of the transparent ring of Saturn in 1850; the discovery of the two moons which accompany Mars, which was one of the greatest astronomical events of the present century; the discovery of more than a thousand double and triple stars, and over fifty asteroids and comets ; and the discovery of three intra-mercurial planets.
—Experiments recently made with the inorganic constituents of food show that, although the salts to a great extent are retained and used over, a certain amount of the same is excreted. Consequently, when salts are withheld from the food, the whole body, but especially those parts actively changing—like blood and muscles—become gradually poorer in salts and richer in albumen; but, though the total quantity in the body is lessened, the mixture of salts in the tissues and juices is unchanged. The diminution of salts in the muscles causes muscular exhaustion; and in the nerves, first excitabililty, and then paralysis of the nerve centres. It also appears, from these experiments, that the quantity of salts really necessary in food is less than has usually been supposed.
Scientific Notes,
—A Kentucky man has two springs on bis place, the waters of which, when mixed, effervesce like a seidlitz powder.
—J. H. McLean, of St. Louis, has just completed a gun, which will fire 12,828 shots per minute. The gun cost about $15 000.
—A female lobster will lay 12,000 eggs in a single season. Their favorite haunts are from six to twelve fathoms deep from the surface of the sea.
—St. Louis has successfully employed the electric light to aid the loading of steamers at her wharves at night, in the place of the old-lashioned pine torches.
—The reason why bands of music are forbidden to play in crossing many of the large bridges is, that a constant succession of sound waves will cause the bridge-wires to vibrate, and thereby endanger the whole structure.
—The transmission to Cincinnati by the Phillips’ system of steno-telegraphy, of Senator Conkling’s speech in New York was a piece of work worth mentioning. About 16,-000 words were transmitted by one operator, on one wire, in five hours and five minutes.
—Another lake village, assigned by experts to the age of bronze, has been discovered at Auvenier, near Neuchatel. Several millstones quite new, others half made, have been brought to light, from which it is inferred that the place may have been the seat of a manufactory of these articles.
—Ulysses Grant Ledford, a Gainsville, (Ga;) boy of eleven years, recently found the largest sapphire ever discovered in ilmerica; and W. G. Strubbe, of Cincinnati, who bought it, values it at $51,200. It is a deep blue, wedged shaped stone, perfectly transparent, and weighs carats.
—M. Mouchot is continuing his experiments with the solar engine in Algeria. With a mirror upwards of twelve feet in diameter he concentrates the heat of the sun upon a boiler, one-fifth of an inch thick, within which he obtains a pressure of nearly 120 pounds in about an hour. M. Mouchot uses the heat lor distilling essences, boiling oils, concentrating sirups, and for sublimating chemicals.
—Our esteemed contemporay, The Catholic Herald, gives in its issue of Oct. 9th an illustration of the new Rochester Astronomical Observatory. It is a beautiful looking building, and is, no doubt, the finest private observatory in the world. It bears the name of its liberal patron, Mr. H. H. Warner, being called the “Warner Observatory.” The
Exchanges.
—Our old and esteemed contemporary The Chronicle, from the University of Michigan, comes to hand with its sixteen, closely-printed pages of reading-matter and eight pages of advertisements, first-class evidence, all of it, that the students of the University of Michigan know how to get up a newsy and handsome college paper, and that the merchants of Ann Arbor and neighborhood are live business men and appreciate the advantages of a good advertising medium. The Chronicle has always been one of the most welcome of our exchanges. Every department is up to the highest mark of a first-class college paper. The Chronicle is always as welcome as a wellread, genial, conversational companion—and we know of few things more desirable. It has all the cream of the college news, both at home and abroad. It is a gratifying fact that our young western country turns out two of the largest, handsomest and best-edited papers published at any college, and both of these from the same institution—namely, The Chronicle and The University, of the University of Michigan.
’ —The Volante, from the University of Chicago, begins the year with form and type somewhat improved. A “ History of the Alumni of the University of Chicago ” takes up most of the number, and, no doubt, will prove very interesting to the many whom it concerns. We hope The Volante will exchange with The Corned Era, so that the exchange editor of that paper may have at least one exchange that he cannot find fault with for using small type and having its pages closely printed. The old-style small pica leaded of The Volante must suit him to a T. The exchange editor of The Volante makes the following appreciative running comment upon his exchanges:
“ Many persons probably think that college papers are all alike; but any one who should glance through the exchanges which have come to hand since the last issue of the Volante, would quickly see that there is a wide diversity of style, matter and depth of thought. Some weigh down their columns with metaphysical discussions, while others are content to chronicle college happenings and repeat stale jokes. Some evidently attempt to supply the lack of a local newspaper in the villages where their respective colleges are located, informing the college world of the whitewashing of neighbor Smith’s yard fence, or the purchase by Jones of a corner lot. Some are given up to sporting news, until one would think that college drill and literary culture were mere incidentals to college life. Others again savor strongly of the class-room, and present a tedious array of class essays, or of mathematlcal con-undrums. There are papers and papers and we are yet a long way from perfection.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Amherst Student comes in as bright as a new silver dollar just from the mint. Its make-up is faultless, and the matter in general is in keeping with the appearance of the paper." The exchange editor evidently enters upon his not very onerous duty in a dubious mood, imagining that he is not only “held responsible for his own work, but for all that has preceded him in his department,” which is a mistake—at least we think it is. We would not hold ourselves responsible for anybody’s work but our own, and would advise our Amherst friend to follow suit with us. He endeavors to pacify his Yale brethren by the announcement that the man who called them “ discourteous ” has been blown up in a gas explosion, and The Brunonian is told that the fellow who called their baseball nine “ the one man nine ” was stung by a potato bug, and died in mortal agony. As to the assurance given the Notre Dame Scholastic that its “acrimonious theological disputant is out among ihe Utes, selling Cypriote jewelry,” it is partly right and partly wrong. We are not exactly among the red-skinned youths he speaks of, nor among the Piutes, but have our fortune cast, for good or for ill, among the pie-eating youths of Notre Dame University for at least another year. “ Surely,” adds the Amherst editor, “they have expatiated [there! the villainous printer did that, and the villainous proof-reader couldn’t see it; if these proof-readers don’t look sharp they should be sent out among the Utes; they can’t see that a verb should agree with its nominative in number and person; for example, see last week’s Scholastic—College Gossip, etc.]—expatiated their offences, and let us have peace.” Yes, let us have peace; and when the glorious summer sun betokens the end of the winter of our discontent, let us—yes, by all means, let us—
—The exchange editor of The Cornell Era hasn’t finished picking that crow with the Scholastic yet. We advise him not to eat too much crow or it will make him sick. In the last issue of his paper he says:
“ The Notre Dame Scholastic is full—of the names of honor students, prize men, and that style of crowd, every week. It possibly saves the institution the expense of publishing a catalogue. A former number contained an exhortation to the parents of its students to take it that they might ‘learn their sons’ standings and delinquencies at the end of every week.’ It’s a good idea, and would be highly worthy a Kindergarten school’s paper—if there were such a thing.”
The latter part of the remark might be considered clever if it was not so ponderous; but as it is, a lever of the first class will be required to lift it into view in order to see the wit in it; more than this, the lever must be on the rotary movement principle, in order to preserve the vis vivis, otherwise the posthumous joke would sink to the ground and the intended effect be lost. It is evident, however, that the Era's exchange editor has no feeling in common with “honor students, prize men, and that style of crowd.” Perhaps cane-rushes and “ town and gown ” affairs, and that style of thing, is more to his liking. If such be the case we are sorry for him, and perhaps cannot help him—it is a common saying that even God, who is goodness itself, helps only those who are willing to help themselves. We are proud to have a long list of “ honor students, prize men, and that style of crowd” at Notre Dame—and we are also proud to adorn our paper with the names of “ honor students,” etc.; but does the exchange editor of The Cornell Era speak the truth in saying that our paper is “ full, every week,” of the names of that style of crowd ? If he said that one column of our paper, and no more, was occupied by them, would he not come nearer the truth? Now, honor bright, old fellow, which comes nearer the mark? If you are color-blind, it would be advisable to get some one to inform you of the exact length of the athletic, local, honor and prize reports in your exchanges before you club their editors for their extreme length or brevity. We were already aware that the sense of feeling was in a measure lost to you, as you found fault in your last issue with the Scholastic for using thin paper, when the fact is that it is full as heavy as that upon which the Era is printed, but we did not then know that you had also lost, or partially lost, the sense of sight. We would, by all means, advise you to invest in a pair of glasses, and if they possess a combination of the * Cony Island blue ” tinge, all the better. If we are not
mistaken, the Era's exchange editor has in a previous number expressed his regard for athletics; if he be under the impression that athletics and college honors and prizes are Incompatible, he has but to bring a picked baseball nine, or football team, or boat crew to Notre Dame, and we will show him and them how hard they will have to work to beat us, if they can beat us, we giving them the privilege of selecting the best of our boats. We will show them what the muscle of Notre Dame’s honor and prize men can do when pitted against Cornell’s cane-rushers. They may beat us, but as they march away with their laurels we have good grounds for presuming that they will say with the converted German skeptic, “ Es ist wahr: es ist uns jetzt recht uohl bekannt: genug."
—The Lariat—Vol. I, No. 2—from Wabash College, Crawfordsville, Ind., is a new visitor to our table, and, we hope, will always be a welcome one. There is not much in the paper, but what is in it is good, and very well arranged. The Lariat is published semi-monthly, and as there are but six pages of reading matter, and six editors, the matter should be good, as we have little doubt it will be, especially as we are told in an editorial that “Wabash claims to be the leading institution in the State.” With such an assumption made editorially the editors are no doubt prepared to do their best; but if Wabash College is “the leading institution” in Indiana the people at that college must have been very modest, retiring, and quiet heretofore, as we, not very distant neighbors, barely knew the college by name, having seen it mentioned a few times in some of our college exchanges. It seems strange that little or no note of the Commencements' and other extraordinary events of the “leading institution of the State ” has been made in the leading papers of the Northwest, while those of a neighboring educational institution, Notre Dame University, have received considerable attention from the great dailies in Chicago and elsewhere, such papers as the Chicago Tribune, Times, and Evening Journal, and the Detroit Free Press, etc., devoting much space to a chronicle of the events at Notre Dame, while Wabash was scarcely mentioned, or not mentioned at all. The students of Notre Dame have also had a college paper for the past thirteen years—the Scholastic has now entered upon its fourteenth year of publication—but perhaps the students at Wabash have never-seen it, as we have not seen any from there until The Lariat favored us with a call. Notre Dame has a faculty of about thirty professors and teachers. The number of students this year is about 300, and we are informed by the annual register that in former years the number ran up to 400 and 500. The Lariat does not give the number of professors and students at Wabash. After all, may it not be barely possible that the editor of The Lariat assumes too much for his college? He is certainly In the dark in regard to some things, for in a local item we read: “ There are seven colleges in Indiana, and Wabash ranks above them all, at home and abroad. She alone does not admit girls. Can you draw any conclusion from this statement ? ” Yes, we draw the conclusion that The Lariat is wrong in at least one point,—there are other colleges in Indiana that do not admit girls, and Notre Dame is one of them; we have, furthermore, no fears that this “time-honored college ” will be transformed into the “ mixed high school ” condition that The Lariat men dread for their own institution. No educational institution under Catholic management mixes the two sexes, ample provision being made for the higher education of girls at the various Catholic female colleges, or academies, as we are wont to call them for the sake of distinction, no matter how wide or elevated the curriculum of studies may be. Even as we write we can see the spacious buildings of St. .Mary’s looming up on the picturesque heights bordering the. historic St. Joseph River,—within whose walls are, besides the ordinary courses of study, a thoroughly organized Art department and Conservatory of Music, the first in the West, and equal to anvthing of the kind to be found in the East, including Vassar, Wellesley, etc. St. Mary’s of the Woods, near Calumet—also in the State of Indiana—is not a whit behind the majority of the best female educational institutions in this or any other country. What was in the mind of our Wabash friends when they penned the aforesaid paragraphs is be
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
71
yond our ken. But, these exceptions aside, we like The Lariat, and are disposed to like its editors. We hope further acquaintance will create a cordial esprit de corps between them and the Scholastic boys.
Among other exchanges that have lately come to hand, and that will receive consideration later, are the Heidelberg Monthly Journal, from Heidelberg College, Ohio; The 'Varsity, University of Toronto; 1 he Vidette, Iowa College ; the Harvard daily Echo; The Hnverfordian; Haverford College, Pa.; the Georgetown College Journal, Georgetown, D. C.; the College Message, St. Vincent’s College, Cape Girardeau, Mo.; The Earlhamite, Earlham College, Ind.; The Paper World, Holyoke, Mass.; the K. M. I. News, Kentucky Military Institute, etc.
' Books and Periodicals.
—“ Happy Songs for Day Schools and the Home ” is the title of a neat little song-book, published by Thos. Kane & Co., of Chicago. It contains 66 pretty songs, set to very good music.
—The Fourth Annual Report of the Department of Public Works to the City Council of Chicago is an exhaustive report of the expenditures made last year for the improvement of streets, river, harbor, etc., in the city of Chicago.
—We have received The Catholic Family Annual for 1881, published at New York, by the Catholic Publication Society Company. The following are its contents: About Names of Women; Abstinence from Words during Lent; A Flathead Mission; Aikenhead, Mother Mary; Anecdote of Carolan; Archbishops and Bishops, List of; Astronomical Calculaions; Ave Maris Stella; Belfast One Hundred Years Ago and Now; Benefit of Clergy; Calendars; Cathedral and Leaning Tower of Pisa; Chatfield, Mother Julia; Cummins, Rev. Jeremiah, D. D.; Days of Abstinence; Dominican Friary, Kilmallock; Famines in Ireland ; Fasting Days of Obligation Feast of Corpus Christi; Festivals of the Year; Friary and Castle of Kilkcrea; Gama, Vasco da; Holydays of Obligation; Loch Leven Castle; Magellan and Elcano; Manning, Cardinal; Murphv, John; Nuns in the Middle Ages; Pabiscb. The Very Rev. Francis Joseph, D. D„ LL.D.; Peltrie, Madame de la; Placare Christe Ser-vulis; Postage, Rates of; Preaching in the Middle Ages; Reminiscences of Cardinal Pecci (Pope Leo XIII); Royal Titles Conferred by the Apostolic See; Russell. The Rev. Charles William, D. D.; St. Thomas Aquinas; Schoolmen of the Middle Ages; Theodore, Mother; Tomb of Columbus; Time; Trim Castle.
College Gossip.
—Professor: What are the constituents of quartz? Student: Pints. A bland smile creeps over the class.
—Princeton is to have an elegant new chapel, costing between $80,000 and $90,000, the gift of Henry C. Marquand, Esq.	*
—Party (who had been to a lecture on astronomy and a little supper afterwards): “Galileoh’s perf’ly right—th’ earsh dosh move 1 ’’—London Punch
—Rooms in Harvard dormitories cost from $300 down to $46 per year. Some students pay as high as $450 for rooms and furnish them to suit their tastes.—The Lariat.
—A teacher of the pianoforte said recently to an acquaintance with whom he was talking at the door of a house: “ My dear friend, just wait a moment; I am only going in here to give a iesson.”
—"I’ll teach you to lie, and steal, and smoke, and use profane language,” said a school-teacher to a pupil, at the same ttmes winging a good-sized birch gad. “ Oh, never mind, sir,” said the lad; “I know all them branches already.
—AVery Solomon!—Teacher with reading-class. Boy (reading): And as she sailed down the river- Teacher: Why are ships called “ she ” ? Boy (precociously alive to the responsibilities of his sex): Because they need men to manage them.
—An old lady visiting the Antiquarian Museum in Edinburg the other day, on inspecting the old weapons very earnestly and failing to find what she was apparently looking for, asked a visitor if he could tell her whereabouts they kept the Axe of the Apostles ?
—A rosy-cheeked Minim, who hails from a very mountainous district, upon hearing some Seniors boasting of their extensive western prairies, exclaimed: “ That is nothing, gents; we have so much land in my part of the country, that we are forced to stack it up to get it out of our way.”
—A Galveston school teacher had a great deal of trouble making a boy understand his lesson. Finally, however, he succeeded, and drawing a long breath remarked: “If it wasn’t for me you woula be the biggest donkey on Galveston Island.”—Visitor. I suppose the youngester donkey much
—Some students in a Maine university were scolding the janitor for remissness, and assured him that if he did not mend his ways he would go to the bad place. “And what will you do there?” said they. With a chuckle, the janitor replied, “ Wait upon students, same as I do here, I s’pose.”—Ex.
—Professor Huxley alludes to a corollofloral dicotyledonous oxegon, with a monopetalous corcilla and a central placentation; but he doesn’t say whether its bite is fatal or not. It will probably travel with Barnum’s show next season, and have its name on a six-sheet poster.—Norristown Herald.
—The following are some of the high salaries paid to professors in different colleges: Columbia pays from $7,500 to 3,385: Harvard, $4,000 to 3,000; Yale and Princeton $3,500; University of California, $3,600; Biown, $3,000 to 2,500; Williams, $2,500; Cornell, $2250 to 1,000; Wes-iegon, $2,500; Oxford, £900 to 400.—Chronicle.
—Princeton buildings were all overhauled and repainted during vacation. Every sewer-pipe was replaced by a new one, and the whole system of drainage was renewed. It will be remembered that the typhoid fever raged as an epidemic among the students early last summer, that several deaths occurred, and that the college closed before the proper time. The overhauling was done to prevent a repetition of this.—The Lariat.
—The endowment fund of Oberlin College has been increased this summer by the receipt of donations and pledges to the amount ot $155,700. Of this sum, $50,000 was offered by Prof. Asa Gray, of telephone renown, with the condition that $100,000 be raised in addition by the first of July last. This condition was met by securing $50,000 from the stone estate in Mass., by six subscriptions of $5,000 each, and by other subscriptions of smaller sums.
—A fellow brought his Greek dictionary to the printingoffice the other day, and began lecturing the boss typo on the great advantage of being able to “ coin ” expressions from” that classical dialect when occasion required, interlarding his eloquent periods with copious selections of “jaw breakers ” from the columns of the lexicon. He got off safe, but the printer swears that if ever such a proceeding is again tried there will be one man less around the diggings to dish up hash made of Greek roots.
—The following extract from an editorial in The Lariat does not speak well for the students at Wabash, in case it means that the students attend no place of worship: “We know whereof we speak when we say that not more than one-half of the Wabash students attended church regularly last year. No doubt the record for the year does not show such a bad state of affairs, but we venture to assert that if the same judgment which was passed upon Ananias and Sapphira had been visited upon the students who untruthfully answered “ present,” there would have been more than one first class funeral in our midst. The tendency of this rule was to crush out all the manly and nobler qualities, and hence it is with joy unspeakable that we chronicle the demise of this relic of "blue-stocking” Piesby-terian barbarism.”
72	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, October 16, IS SO.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fourteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending ns notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office of pubU-cation, as, usually, bnt few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—Editors may sometimes give utterance to something which is in itself good and praiseworthy, hut which— when wrongly or maliciously construed by one intent upon doing harm—sometimes becomes a volcano, vomiting forth seething rivers of fire and lava, which streaming down its sides threatens with utter annihilation the unfortunate author of the misconstrued assertion. This state of affairs is true not only for those engaged in the laborious and thankless occupation of editing a paper, but also for those engaged in any other sphere of action. The utterances of politicians, the writings of authors, the sermons of the ministers of religion,—all are occasionally subjected to this kind of treatment. An article written in the most general terms is very frequently taken by some individual as a personal attack upon him. Then it is that an editor must be ready to hear himself characterized as almost everything but a gentleman. He, however, when placed in such a condition, feels a consolation in knowing that he is but a sharer in the common fate of every editor.
Perhaps the less said about this matter the better. We will therefore content ourselves with saying that we shall never neglect to do that which we feel to be imperatively demanded of us by our duty to God and our fellow-man.
—We believe that a grand mistake is being made to-day by many of our editorial institutions in the means they employ for enforcing the observance of respect for disciplinary regulations. Many believe that the intimidation process is the only genuine and effective one. To this we take most decided exceptions, and say that the only good, proper, and justifiable one is to make students observe
and respect rules from a sense of right and duty—a right demanded of them by the college which they attend; a . duty which they owe to those who hold a parent’s place
over them, a duty which they owe to God.
A student should be taught to observe college rules, not through fear of punishment for their violation, but rather from motives of duty, self-respect, honor, and integrity. Appeal to a man’s honor or integrity for the fulfillment of any obligation, and you strike the most sensitive chord in his nature. Tell him that, unless he performs such or such an act, his integrity will be made questionable; and if he be a man capable of distinguishing between right and wrong, if he be a man whose sense of shame is not entirely lost, the act for the performance of which his honor is at stake, if proper, will be performed. Convince him that what he is required to do is both reasonable and salutary; show him that by its omission he is left liable to disgrace and censure, and he will undoubtedly do it. On the contrary, intimidate an individual into the performance of something, be it a duty required of him or not; inform him that, unless he does it voluntarily, you’ll force him into its performance; in nine cases out of ten, he’ll ask you to try it. Succeed, if you will, in forcing a compliance with your demand, by bringing your physical influence into play, and though the required act be performed, ’tis forced—involuntarily; a reaction soon takes place, and the one thus forced becomes more stubborn than ever. ’Tis thus with young men and boys at college: force them into the observance of rules by punishment, it is but an external submission; internally they vow revenge, and have it, when those whom they fear are not present. Inculcate the necessity of obeying rules at all times and in all places from a sense of right and duty— show them that in violating their rules they disobey God rather than man; convince them thoroughly of this fact; and, generally speaking, they will grow up, not hypocrites, but men of integrity, to whom their Alma, Mater can always refer with pride and pleasure, as men whom she has sent forth to shine like brilliant stars in the first ranks of society. We do not mean to say that a student should not be punished for the transgression of rules. Not at all; for we believe that the old and often-quoted saying, “ spare the rod and spoil the child,” is true. We only wish to show the necessity of first impressing a student with the idea that in following the regulations of a college he is but doing what God requires him to do; and that if he then violates any of them and is punished for it, that this punishment is given not for the sake of forcing him into submission, but rather as a punishment for his disobedience to authority—to God. We know full well that occasionally an individual will gain admission to a college under false representation, who would but be in his proper place if confined within the walls of the penitentiary; but such cases are soon discovered, and given their first deserts in expulsion. Sometimes, however, it may happen—but we are happy to feel that it is seldom the case at Notre Dame—that an occasional character of this description will play the hypocrite so successfully that he may remain for a long time, perhaps for years, undiscovered; but no sooner has he left the college, which he insults by calling his Alma Mater, than he throws off his disguise, and stands before the world in his true light—that of a confirmed scoundrel. Then it is that people are too easily deceived, in taking him as a specimen of the college’s ability—or rather disability—in turning out men competent to credits-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
73
bly occupy any social or civil position, and whom she allows to salute her as their Alma Mater. This is a hut too common error into which many people fall. They are wont to say: “ There’s Joe Somebody; he was educated at such and such a college. See how wicked and disgraceful he is. That college must be a very poor college for educating young men, etc, etc.” A hundred—yes, a thousand— people may be led into such a belief, by seeing just one of these characters. The consequence is that the good reputation of this or that college will be lost in the eyes of these people.
We hold that, if a student is taught to observe his rules for the reasons which we have already given, if already good, he will become better—and by good, in this case, we mean an inclination to do what is required; but if, on the contrary, he be a rowdy already, he cannot remain long undiscovered; and when discovered, the sooner he is requested to take his departure from the college the better.
—What higher or holier way of assisting at divine service than singing the praises of God ? ’Tis the manner in which the kings and patriarchs of old praised God; ’tis thus that the angels and saints of heaven now sing His praises. There is nothing that stirs the human heart quicker than music. The harmony produced by a combination of well-tuned instruments, such as violins, piano, organ, or the brass instruments, is,—when these instruments are in the hands of masters—to say the least, heavenly. fi They are potent to change and shape many of the passions of men. We know full well the soothing effect which David’s harp exercised over the troubled soul of Saul. Every age can give instances when men, intent upon the commission of some crime, have been deterred therefrom by hearing the sweet strains produced by a masterly hand upon some musical instrument. We once heard a man say that had it not been for the harmonious and melodious strains of a piano, he would have killed a man on a certain occasion. It appears that he and another man had a dispute on some political subject one evening, which terminated in their coming to blows. They were separated by some parties, who stood near by, and then started for their respective homes, each one vowing vengeance on the other. ’Twas on the evening in question that our friend started down street, armed with a smith and wesson, in search of his intended victim. He said that he never before or since felt such a desire to be revenged upon anyone as he did on that evening. ’Twas with such feelings that he was wending his way along, when his ears caught the sound of some musical instrument, which, as he approached nearer, became sweeter and more enchanting. He soon drew near the house from which these sweet and, for him, providential sounds were emanating. Here he stood transfixed, as it were, for nearly a half an hour. When the music had ceased, his desire for revenge was gone. His soul had been soothed, and his fiery spirit tamed by a few musical strains. He again sought for the man whom he had intended to murder; but with what different motives was he now prompted. He found him; told him how that but an hour ago he bad been bent on taking his life. He then told him that his determination had been altered, begged his pardon, received it; and from that time forth they, who had once been bitter enemies, be; came the most steadfast friends.
That music exercises a great influence over the brute creation is an indisputable fact. We have heard instances related of music causing the death of some of the lower animals; and the reason of this is that as people are sometimes said to die of joy, so the death of these animals was caused by their being unable to endure for any considerable length of time the prevalence of a succession of sweet sounds- We ourselves have often been amused while playing the organ to find that we had a very large attentive audience of small mice. They would sit for several minutes in an attitude of the most intense interest; but as soon as we would raise our hands from the keys they would make all possible haste for their dingy abodes, to reappear as soon as we again pressed the keys. We have often been amused by watching this crowd of uninvited listeners, and we never failed to do our utmost to entertain them. However, we never saw any of them drop dead,' and therefore we feel a little disinclined to believe that music ever killed any animal; perhaps, though, we did not produce strains sufficiently sweet to afford such an effect.
Now, if all that has been said of the powerful influence exercised by the melodious strains of musical instruments, not only upon rational but even upon irrational beings be true, what shall we say of that of which all musical instruments are but a poor imitation—the harmony of the human voice. This is indeed the king of all. To write everything of interest in connection with this faculty, from a musical standpoint, would require more time and space than we have at our disposal. We are under the impression that many of our students know not the value of vocal culture, or they would manifest greater interest therein. Vocal music would be a more favored study, did they but know full well the great advantages arising from it. One of the best methods of becoming good speakers is to become a good singer. As a rule, those who sing well make the best speakers: they have the most pleasing voices. Now, besides the other organizations for this purpose at the University, our students can all take part in singing during the divine service bn Sundays; and while they are engaged in the meritorious and pleasant occupation of singing the praises of their Creator, they can at the same time improve their vocal powers. We therefore again request all to take part in the singing at Mass and Vespers on Sundays.
—St. Edward’s day dawned brightly. Not a cloud was visible on the blue vault of the clear autumnal sky. Nature seemed to have put on her holiday attire to add, by her beauty, a charm to the celebration of that day, which of all others is the most welcome and dear to the students and Faculty of Nptre Dame.
Tuesday being the eve of the great day, the students assembled together in the rotunda to offer their cordial congratulations in the form of a soiree to one whom they love. The rotunda was gaily festooned with natural and artificial flowers, while the railings above and below were charmingly set off in white bunting, around which was twined a perfect labyrinth of artificial flowers. In the centre of the rotunda was erected a throne for the distinguished guest of the evening. At half-past seven, Very Rev. Father General, accompanied by Very Rev. Fathers Corby and Granger, together with, several members of the Fac-
74
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

ulty and many invited guests, made his appearance. This was the signal for an outburst of applause, upon the subsidence of which the exercises of the evening were opened with the rendition of a very pretty overture by the University Orchestra. The overture being ended, Master G. Castanedo, of New Orleans, made his appearance, and read a well-written address in French. We ourselves do not understand the language, but one who does said that Master Castanedo’s address was good. C. A. Tinley’s personation of “ Rienzi ” was faultless. It has often been our happiness to hear this young gentleman declaim, and the more we see of his style in declamation the better we like it. His gestures were natural and appropriate; his whole bearing, graceful. The sentiments of the German portion of our students were embodied in a German address, which was very well read by Master G. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Ind. We were next treated to a recitation by Master C. Hagan, of the Senior Department, who rendered “Parting” in his own impressive style. The applause given him was ample testimony of the audience’s appreciation of his effort. Next was a violin solo bi’ Master F. Bloom, with piano support by Bro. Basil, G. S. C. It was very well rendered. Then came one of the best written and best read addresses of the evening—that read by Master C. 0. Echlin, attended by Masters A. O’Connor and J. J. McGrath, in behalf of the Minim Department. We could not but note the smile of pleasure which lit up the venerable countenance of Very Rev. Father General when the representatives of his little favorites appeared before him; and we are sure that no address of the evening—though all contained sentiments most filial—gave him as much pleasure as that afforded him in listening to the sentiments of his little favorites.
Master Orrick’s “Address to a Jury” was one which aroused the risibles of all present, especially those of the younger portion of the audience, who roared with laughter at the enunciation of each successive “jaw-breaker.” Orrick makes a first-class comedian. He was followed with a Latin address by Mr. W. B. McGorrisk, who, in a few well-chosen words, gave expression to the feelings of the classical students of the University. The Orchestra then favored the audience with a march, which was played passably well. This was the first appearance of the Orchestra in public this year, and we shall therefore refrain from criticizing their playing. We would, however, suggest that on such occasions the different instruments be tuned before the audience assembles; for it is really very disagreeable, to say the least, to be obliged to listen for fifteen minutes to the “A” sound of fifteen or twenty different instruments.
Ere the last strains of the Orchestra had died away, Master F. Grever appeared as the representative of the Junior Department; and in a clear, pleasant, and audible tone of voice read an address in which the sentiments of that department were beautifully expressed. “ Christian Charity” was well and feelingly declaimed by Master W. J. McCarthy, of the Senior Department. He was followed by Master F. Bloom, who read an address in Greek, which was written and read in a style highly creditable to that young gentleman. “ Heroism ” was, in our opinion, the best declaimed piece of the evening. P. J. Hagan, who declaimed, has a powerful, deep, but sweet voice; and when to this we add his graceful delivery and distinct pronunciation of words, uttered in the lowest tones, we are forced to concede him the palm. The Senior Department
was well and ably represented in the person of Mr. Geo. Clarke, who made a grand oration, which reflected credit upon himself and upon the department which he was chosen to represent. In the course of it he said that a godless education had been the ruin of many a nation; that the present sad state of affairs in France was attributable to the same; and that unless America, our own dear land, opened her eyes to this great and very prevalent evil she, too, must inevitably meet with a like sad fate. He touchingly alluded to the present state of affairs in France, where the religious of the Holy Cross were meeting with the same treatment accorded to all religious orders. His was indeed a masterly and scholarly oration. We are sorry that he had no manuscript from which we might take a few extracts.
With the conclusion of Mr. Clarke’s oration the exercises of the evening were terminated. Very Rev. Father General then arose, and in his own happy manner thanked the young gentlemen for the.very flattering entertainment which they had given him. He said that he was ill pre pared to be the recipient of so many happy congratulations on this the eve of his patronal festival; for two of his most cherished friends had died within the past week, namely, Mr. Forrester, of Laporte, and Mrs. Coquillard, of South Bend. This, he said, cast a deep and lasting gloom upon everything, and made him feel as though such happy congratulations were out of place. He then recurred at some length to the scenes and incidents of his first arrival in this State, which was just thirty-nine years ago Tuesday evening. He again thanked the young gentlemen for their kindness, and they all dispersed, to meet again to witness the different field-sports on the morrow.
As we said before, Wednesday morning dawned brightly. The day’s festivities were inaugurated by the celebration of Solemn High Mass, Very Rev. Father General being celebrant, assisted by Very R jv. Father Granger and Rev. Father L’Etourneau as deacon and subdeacon. After the singing of the Gospel, Father General made some very impressive remarks, in the course of which he again thanked all present for the manifestation of their filial attachment to him. He requested them to invoke the intercession of his glorious patron for his future welfare. Mass ever, the Faculty repaired to the Presbytery to tender their congratulations to the Founder of Notre Dame. Prof. McCue in a few words spoke the sentiments of the Faculty of the University. The Professor’s address was responded to by Father General, and then all repaired to President Corby’s parlor, where a few minutes were spent in social intercourse. The few minutes thus spent sped rapidly by; and at 10 o’clock, a. m., all wended their way to the beautiful banks of St. Joseph’s Lake to witness
THE REGATTA.
Many visitors from Chicago, Indianapolis, South Bend, and many other cities in the Union were seen. The crowd forcibly reminded one of Commencement Day. The Whites and Blues soon made their appearance on the glassy sheet of water, and were loudly cheered by the crowd of spectators, who lined St. Joseph’s shady banks. Scarce a ripple was visible on the lake’s calm bosom; a better day for a boat-race could not have been desired. The boats were soon at the starting point; a moment later Bro. Ireneus gave the starting signal, and both boats were rapidly propelled forward by powerful and well-measured strokes. The race was very close and exciting until the upper buoys were reached, when the Hiawathas, by making a better turn, gained an advantage over the Minne-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
75
hahas,—which advantage it maintained until the close— winning the race, by a. boat length, in 3 minutes and 15 seconds. Both crews pulled well, and made a splendid showing for the short time they had for practice.
THE MINIMS’ FIELD SPORTS. .
The Regatta over, all assembled in the Minims’ yard to witness the field-sports of that department. They began with a mile race, for which there were eighteen entries. Seven laps around the yard made a mile. Master J. Bender, of Chicago, won the race, and received the first prize; the second prize was awarded to Master D. O’Connor, of the same place. The next was a half-mile race, for which there were twelve entries; the first prize in this race was awarded to Master M. Olds, of Columbus, Ohio; Master Carney taking second. Then came a velocipede race between Masters Olds, Droste, and O’Connor—Droste, and Olds tied. Later in the day the prize for this race was won by Master Olds. Several bag, hurdle, sack, and three-legged races occurred later in the day, reports of which were not handed us.
DINNER.
It was now twelve o’clock; consequently the inner man must be satisfied; with this intention all were soon in the refectories, where a most sumptuous repast was spread before them. The tables, to use an old expression, fairly groaned under the weight of the good things with which they were laden. In a half an hour’s time, however, the aspect of affairs was changed; and where but a few minutes ago pies, sponge, jelly, chocolate, and several other kinds of cake, together with everything else necessary to make a first-class banquet were seen, nothing was now visible save the ghastly-looking bones of over a hundred turkies.
JUNIOR FIELD-SPORTS.
The students of Notre Dame believe that the aphoristic saying, “ after breakfast walk a mile, but after dinner rest a while,” is true; consequently the field-sports were not resumed until two o’clock, p. m. Then the field-sports of the Junior department opened with
A HURDLE-RACE, for which there were twenty-two entries. Cannon led all the way until he had reached the third hurdle on the return, when, from some inexplicable cause, he measured his length on the greensward, thereby giving Hurley a lead, which won for him the 1st prize; Smith, of Watertown, Wis., taking the second. There were twenty-six entries for the second hurdle-race; Start, of Chicago, leading until he reached the fatal spot upon which had been wrecked the prize chances of a Cannon, where, for want of a more glorious spot or perhaps, for want of breath, he, too, fell, to be passed by the next moment by Ayers, of Columbus, O., closely followed by Castanedo, of New Orleans. Ayers,-however, took first prize, and Castanedo the second. There were eighteen entries for the third hurdle-race, the first prize for which was won by H. Hetz, Jackson, Mich., and the second by G. De Haven, of Cincinnati, Ohio.
Next came
THE FOOTRACES, of which there were three; with fifteen entries for the first, twenty-one for the second, and seventeen for the third. T. Cullinane, Dexter, Mich., led from the very start, and was hotly followed by Gordon, of Cairo, Ill. It was a half-mile dash, and was handsomely won by Cullinane, who received the first prize, Gordon, taking second. McLarnen, of Covington, Ky., led in the second race until within about two
hundred yards of the goal, when Guthrie, of Carroll, Iowa, made a sudden “ spurt,” passed McLarnen, and thus received first prize, McLarnen getting second. The prize for the third foot-race was won by Gibert, of New Orleans, who was closely followed by De Haven, to whom was given the second prize.
Then came one of the most interesting races of the day— the
FAT MEN’S RACE.
For this race there were five entries, viz.: Jones, of Columbus, Ohio; Murdock, of Lafayette, Ind.; Perry, of Chicago; Dorsel, of Covington; and Flynn, of Des Moines, Iowa. A very good start was made, and then commenced the tug of war between these “little giants.” Jones, Cleary, and Murdock kept abreast for a long distance; then Cleary made “ spurt,” which gave him lead of from six to eight feet. Jones then took a notion to spurt”; by doing so he passed Cleary, who again passed Jones, and won the first prize; Murdock took the second. Jones, Dorsel, Perry, and Flynn were distanced.
THREE-LEGGED RACE—SACK, BURDEN AND BYCICLE RACES.
The prize in the three-legged race was awarded to N. Nelson, of Chicago, and G. Woodson, of Fort Laramie, Wyoming Territory; Maher, of Cleveland, O.,and Cannon, of Ft. Saunders, Wyo. T., were awarded the prizes for the sack-races. Orrick would have won the burden race had he but resisted the temptation of kissing old Mother Earth; it was this pardonable weakness of Orrick, of Memphis, Tenn., which gave the prizes to O’Neill, of Salt Lake City, Utah, and to Shafer, of Kokomo, Ind. The Junior fieldsports terminated with a bycicle race, in which Kelly, of Chicago, Rohrback, of Peoria, and Livingston, of South Bend, participated; Kelly received first prize, and Rohr-back, second.
THE SENIOR FIELD SP0BTS
The field sports of the Senior department were next in order, and were commenced by a game of baseball between the two best clubs of the department. The game lasted one hour and fifteen minutes; the score was 3 to 0. Jones was loudly cheered for his good work in the field, as well as for the many hot liners which he took in on 3rd Base. The game over, the hurdle-races commenced. But before reporting the result of the races let us say that never before did we see hurdles so artistically arranged. Bro. Ireneus spared no pains to have everything in first-class order, and right well did he succeed. The “Stars and Stripes” floated over every hurdle. A grand stand had been erected for the Judges, Rev. Fathers Walsh, Stoffel, Zahm, and O’Keeffe acting in this capacity. The first prize in the first hurdle-race was taken by Mr. Pollock, of Burlington, Iowa; the second, by W. Tracy. Quinn, of, Tolono, 111., took first prize in the second hurdle-race, and W. Arnold, Washington, D. C., second prize. Ryan took first money in first sack-race, Smith taking second. In the second sack-race Otis, of St. Louis, took first prize, and Steis took second. Sugg, of Chicago, won first prize in the foot-race; while P. J. Hagan and W. Brown carried off the honors in jumping. Several other sports took place, reports of which have not reached us.
With the conclusion of the Seniors’ field-sports ended the outdoor sports of the day. The evening was devoted to all sorts of in-door amusements; and when at 9 o’clock all retired, we are sure that everyone would say that the celebration of St. Edward’s Day by the boys of ’80 and ’81 was by far the most enthusiastic one in the history of Notre
76
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Dame. May Very Rev. Father General live to see many happy returns of his patronal festival.
Personal.
—F. Reeves, is farming near Dexter, Mich.
—Ratigan, ’76, is residing at Springfield, Mich.
—F. Frazer, ’75, is keeping hotel at Portsmouth, O.
—T. Monahan, ’77, is hook-keeping for a firm in Chicago, Ill.
—J. Nelson, ’76, is in the furniture business, South Bend, Ind.
—McDonald, ’74,.is in the dry-good business, Bay City, Mich.
—R. Norris, ’75, is in business with his father at Cincinnati, 0.
—J. C. Herman (Commercial, ’78,) is in the furniture business at Des Moines, Iowa.
—Senator McDonald spent a few moments with us last Friday. He was warmly welcomed by the students, whom he favored with a few appropriate words of advice.
—H. Hayes, ’74, was recently married to Miss Foote, of Burlington, Iowa. Hal resides in Chicago, where he is doing well. We wish him unalloyed happiness in his new* state of life.
—Mr. J. Tracy, Mrs. N. C. Ganitt, Burlington, Iowa; Mrs. S. M. Helles, Napoleon, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind.; J. B. Patterson, ’77, St. Paul, Minn.; Mr. Wathen Louisville, Ky., were among our visitors on St. Edward’s day.
—Among our visitors last week were Mrs. L. J. Pierce, Jamestown, N. Y.; Mrs. A. Peterson, Chicago, Ill.; M. J. Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. A. A Hickox, New York; J. D. McKinnon, Chicago, Ill.; L. Moran, Detroit, Mich.; Miss Treichler, Philadelphia; F. Faulkner, Chicago, UL; Mrs A. Gall, fndianopolis, Ind.; and several others whose names we have not at present.
—The following is a complete list of the clergy of Fort Wayne who were present at the retreat, which was preached here last week by Rev. Father Stuhl. C. SS. R., of New York: Very Rev. Father Benoit, Rev. Fathers Brammer, Hartnett, Steufer, R idemacher, Konig. Welren-boff, Hurbeon, Crowley, Wilkins, Mark, Young, Duehring, Kbrtz, Kroll, Hellhake, Dinnen, Mussbaum, Bleckman, Flach, Dempsey, Crosson, Baeckelman, Hhesser, Runkier, Seberger, Lardeman, Joy, Hartmann, Monch, Campion, J. Oechtering, Grogan, Walters, Riehne, Kroger, A. Ochter-ing, Kelly, Schmidt, Widan, Lang, Romer, Becks, Meisner, Lurevellen, WOste, Zumbuette, Franzen, Heitman, Hoss, Deisnel, Baumgartner, Lentz, Quinlan, O’Reilly, Wiech-men, Hallinan, Bathe.
Local Items.
—“ Liberty? ”
—The returns are all in.
—“ Hancock and Liberty! Rah! ”
—“ Maynooth ” still holds his own.
—The diocesan retreat was concluded on Saturday last.
—Father Kirsch’s zoological lectures are very interesting.
—The Minims received beautiful prizes on St. Edward’s Day.
—The “Justice” won a complete victory over the “Squire.”
—Senator McDonald addressed the students briefly on Friday last.
—Bills for town, Infirmary, etc., are of no account unless they are signed “ O’K.”
—Father O’Keeffe’s little cane was very handy for keeping the “ road clear ” on Wednesday.
—Our friend John was on the “war path” last week. This is nothing unusual for Johnnie.
—We understand that the work on the new Academy of Music will be resumed next week.
—St. Edward’s day was very enthusiastically celebrated by the Seniors, Juniors and Minims.
—Master Johnnie Inderriedden, of Chicago, was here to see the St. Edward-day sports. He reports “ Dodo ” as being in the best of health.
—The Sorins’ new Society-room is being nicely furnished. As soon as their room is finished, they will resume their regular weekly meetings.
—All the Minims appear on the Roll of Honor this week, —the notes which some had being overlooked in honor of Very Rev. Father General’s Feast.
—Bros. Leander and Lawrence are to be complimented on the systematic manner in which they conducted the field-sports of their department on Wednesday.
—“ Sancho ” and “ Nep ” kept up a constant howl during Master Orrick’s “ Address to the Jury” on Tuesday evening. Perhaps the “jaw-breakers” started them.
—It was a pity that Start, after making such a good start in the hurdle-race, should have started to stumble, thereby loosing the good start which he had at the outstart.
—The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association received Holy Communion on the thirteenth, the festival of Very Rev. Father Sorin, their august Patron.
—We asked “ Jim ” why he did not take part in any of the sports. He replied “ that he wished to give some of the other boys a chance to take a few prizes.” “Jim ” is not at all conceited.
—To-morrow, the Feast of the Purity of the Blessed Virgin, Missa Parmdorum, page 38 of the Kyriale, will ba sung. Vespers, of the Common of the Blessed Virgin, page 36 of the Vesperal.
—The Sorins carried off some handsome prizes for the field sports on St. Edward’s day. Among these were a gold pen and several beautifully-bound books, which were donated by friends of the Sorin Association.
—At the 2d regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-palrian Society, held Oct. 5th, Masters H. Sells, F. Boone, and G. O’Kane presented themselves for membership, and were elected. Masters Start, Gibert, Browne, and Rohr-back delivered declamations.
—Several games of baseball were played during the week, reports of which were not handed us. As we are not able to be in the yard at every recreation, we have asked Master J. P. O'Neill to look after all these reports. This he has kindly consented to do.
—The best bulletin in the Junior Department for the month of October was awarded to R. E. Fleming, of Henderson, Kentucky: second best, E. A. Orrick, Canton, Miss.; third best, Charley Tinley, of Covington, Ky., and Albert Brown, of Brownsville, Texas.
—The 5th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Friday, Oct. 8th. Masters J. M. Scanlan and J. Burns were elected members. Public readers for this week were as follows: J. Homan, C. Brinkman, E. Orrick, R. Fleming, N. Nelson, J. Guthrie and C. Tinley
—An old hat is a thing that may often be seen lying carelessly around the premises. We noticed one of this description on St. Edward’s day; so did our friend John. The temptation to kick such an article out of one’s way is irresistible. Our friend John just wanted to see how high he could raise that old hat with his right foot. He took a run of about twenty yards, and gave the old hat his best. It didn’t “raise” worth a cent. John did; and the “yell” which he “raiseth” could be heard a half a mile away. John now says that he believes there was a stone under that hat. Right, John.
—The 3d regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held Sunday evening, Oct. 10th. Rev. Father Lang gave the ten minute instruction, after which R. E. Fleming read a paper on the “Influence
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
77
of Good Company.” E. C. Orrick read one on “ Good Books,” and C. J. Brinkman explained “ The Devotion of the Rosary.” The following young gentlemen were appointed to read papers at the next meeting: C. Tinley, N. Ewing, and N. Weny. Masters F. Martin, C. Kolars, W. Barron, J. Whelan, F. Kengal, A. Dick, T. Hurley, T. McKinnon, J. McClarnon, J. Hefierman, J. McGrath, H. Devitt, and H. Hake were unanimously elected members of the Society. After the closing hymn the meeting adjourned.
—The old “ Excelsior ” have been reorganized, and the following young gentlemen are the members of the club: Guy Woodson, right field and Captain; A. Bodine, 1st base; W. Cleary, 2d base; A. Hake, 3d base; J. Scanlan short stop; J. Guthrie, pitcher; A. Hefierman, catcher: N. Nelson, centre field; G. Dick, left field. Last Sunday, Oct. 10th, they played Gallagher’s newly organized club, and defeated them by a score of 1G to 13. The most notable-features of the game were the bolting of Boose and Scanlan, and the calling of Hefierman. Double plays were made by Maher of Gallagher’s Club, and Cleary of the Excelsior; Master Woodson had the best score. The same nines will soon meet again and play for a barrel of apples.
—A trio of Seniors, whom I will call A, B, C, were comfortably seated on the Campus, beneath the thick foliage of a venerable maple, enjoying the umbrageous hospitality of its spreading branches; polished wit and sparkling repartee being the order of the day. Mr. A seemed the victor, when one of his enthusiastic admirers presented the trio with two large peaches, promising many more, on condition that they would devise some means of giving one to each contestant. B and C having given it up, Mr. A said, with an air of triumph: “ Gentlemen, there is nothing easier to a good logician; for example, this is one and that is two; but in my state, one and two make three; ergo, we have one each. All right, said B to C; let you take this and I’ll take that, and let him have the third, the precious fruit of his own logic. Then suiting the action to the word, their happy “jaws” were soon performing their proper functions on the delicious fruit, amid the clapping of hands and the hurras of all present.
—Very Rev. Father General’s youth seems to be renewed with each return of his feast. For years we have not seen him look so vigorous and well as at present. He sung High Mass on the 13lh, his beautiful, rich voice filling every corner of the spacious Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. It is thirty-nine years, this month, since he said his first Mass in Indiana, and we think his voice could not be more full and powerful then than it was last Wednesday. After the Gospel, he preached an eloquent sermon, which he concluded by saying that the success of Notre Dame, which people attributed to him, should be re ferred to the Blessed Virgin, on whose festival he first left France, and who to the present day gave evident proofs of her help and protection. He then thanked the Faculty and students for their expression of good wishes and affectionate sentiments contained in their addresses, which he said touched him deeply, as he knew they came from the heart. May God continue the blessings of good health and success to Very Rev. Father General, and may he live to see many more happy celebrations of the Feast of St. Edward.
—The following is the programme of the exercises which were carried out on St. Edward’s Day:
Tuesday, October 12,1880.
Overture...........
French Address...... Rienzi (Personation) German Address.... Parting Recitation.. Violin Solo.........
Minims’ Address....
Address to a Jury... Latin Address....... March............... Juniors ’Address.... Christian Charity... Greek Address....... Heroism............. Seniors’ Address.... Closing Remarks...
.............Orchestra .............G. Castanedo .............C. Tinley .............G. Rbodius .............C. Hagan .............F. W. Bloom
(C.Echlin, D. O'Connor ’ I J. J. McGrath .E. Orrick ..................W. B. McGorrisk ..........................Orchestra .............F. Grever .............J..McCarthy ................F...............W. Bloom ................P. J. Hagan .................G.	E. Clarke Very Rev. Father General
Wednesday, 13.
8 o’clock, a. m....................  Solemn	High Mass
10	”	” ..................................Regatta
H ”	”.............Field Sports in Minim Department
2 ” p. m................Field Sports in Junior Department
4	”	”........,.....Field Sports in Senior Department
—Prof. King, of New York, is here visiting his old friend, Prof. Lyons. He will favor us with some of his " Dramatic Readings ” this week. The Daily Republican of Omaha, Neb., has the following to say in regard to Prof. King: “Mr. King throws aside the book—throws aside the conventional stage ‘business,’ and simply identifies himself with the part, the character—in a spirit of severe simplicity worthy the ancient Greek or the classic French tragedian. He is neither a reader alone nor an actor merely—he is both, and far more. In his presentation of the drama, which is more than mere performance of the play, there is the intellectual purpose of the scholar, the insight of dramatic genius, the studied care of the skilled reader, the life of the actor, with nothing conventional in voice, manner, or accessory, to divert from the true thought and sentiment of the piece. The versatility, tenacity and exactness of his ready memory are something phenomenal. The whole play seems to stand before him like a picture, or a scene in nature, from which, with true artistic skill, he selects—or rather spontaneously takes up—what is most striking and Siting. Notthe least remarkable are the succinct narratives, statements and resumes of the scenes and course of the play in minor portions, with which he connects the various characters and events throughout. In effect, in words precise and picturesque, he enfolds the entire action; the great parts and scenes donot overshadow the small, nor do the smaller confuse the greater. From beginning to end the drama progresses continuously and ■naturally—the action ‘knows no retiring ebb.’ At the end the emotions have been stirred and the feelings awakened; at the same time the auditor retires with a sense of satisfaction which can come only from a profound and consistent appeal to his intelligence. He has met and passed ‘an evening’ not merely with Hamlet and Othello, and tie various stage ‘ people’ associated with them, but with the great master—with Shakspere himself—in propri persona.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction io all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. B. McGorrisk, Geo. Clarke, R. M. Anderson, J. Solon, -T. Kavanaugh, R. C. Adams, Elmer Otis, J. Casey. B. Casey, L. M. Proctor, L. Mathers, W. McCarthy, J. Rielly, R. Le Bourgeois, C. W. Bennett, J. J. Malloy, G. S. Hagan, J. C. Newman, J. A. McIntyre, B. F. Smith, D. Ryan, J. J. McErlain, E. Sngg, J. Ryan, C. Brehmer, F. Ward, A. F. Spangler, W. Schofield, H. S. O’Donnell, F. Kuhn, W. Kallerman, J. Delaney, W. Brown, J. Brown, A. Korty, J. Killian, C. Thiele, F. J. Baker, J. Malone, W. Johnson, J. F. Rettig, E. G. Taggart, D. R. Philips, L. Johnson, W. Young, W. Kelly, H. A Steis, J. M. Falvey, A. Zahm.
• JUNIOR DEPARTMENT..
A. A. Brown, F. A. Boone, C. J. Brinkman, V. G. Butler, J. H. Burns. A Bodine, W. H. Barton, G. C. Castanedo, W. L. Coghlin, A. M. Coghlin, W. D. Cannon, T. H. Cullinene, E. Cullinane, E. H. Croarkin, W. J. Cavanagh, W. S. Cleary, H. P. Dunn, A. C. Dick, G. W. De Haven, F. H. Dorsel, H. T. Devitt, N. H. Ewing, A. J. Flynn, T. F. Flynn, J. M. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, J. H. Fendrick, Ed. Fishel, J. H. Hendrick, J. J. Gordon, L. P. Gibert, E. F. Gall, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, W. W. Gray, P. G. Heffernan, W. D. Hetz, H. P. Hake, T. J. Hurley, A. J. Hintze, J. T. Homan, J. L. Heffernan, F. R. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. A. Joyce, T. H. Kenge), F. A. Kleine, J. M. Kelly, C. C. Kolars, S. Livingston, Frank McPhilips, J. P. McClarnon, J. L. Morgan, C. J. McDermott, C. M. Murdock, S. T. Murdock, J. F. Martin J. S. McGrath, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, J. P. O’Neill, L. L. O’Donnell, C. F. Perry, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Rhodius, A. N. Rohrback, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, C. F. Rietz, J. Ruppe, W. E. Smith, Cen. Schneider, R. C. Simms, G. Schafer, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, C. A. Tinley, G. A. Truschel, F. J. Woeber, F. W. Wheat ey, W. T. Weney, T. Williams, J. B. Wilder, J. N. Whelan, A. W. Ayers, J. W. Devitt, F. J. McKinnon,,G. J. Halslam.
78
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. S. Courtney, C. E. Droste, D. G. Taylor, C. C. Echlin, E. A. Howard, A. Van Mourick, A. G. Molander, H. A. Kitz, H. C. Snee, D. O’Connor, W. M. Olds, W. E. Hanavin, J. A, Kelly, J. W. Frain, J. McGrath, W. T. Berthelet, G. E. Tourtillotte, W. Taylor, H. Metz, F. Maloney, A. H. Chirhart, W. Haslam. F. Fishel, T. McGrath. F. B. Farrelly, J. E. Chaves, J. Ruppe, E. S. Chirhart, J. R. Bender, B. Bender, C. Metz, L. J. Young, M. E. Devitt, J. H. D wen ger. H. J. Ackerman, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, E. H. Kearney, U. Youug. W. J. Mills’-.
Class Honors
[In the following list are giv n the names of those who have given entire sat’sfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
R. Adams, L Cl ments, J. Cannon, F. De ver, J. Delaney, J. Kavanaugh, J. McNamara, H. O’Donnell, E. Sugg, A. M. Coghbn, P. Joyce, J. Morgan, C. Rielz. J. M. Scanlan, G. Si-vermann, J. Falvev. G. L. Hagan. W. E. Hoffman, W. Johnson, F. E. Kuhn, W J. Kelly J. A. McIntyre J. C. Newman, J. W. Quinn, H. Steis, C. Thiele, F. Ward, W. R. Young, J. Guthrie, H. Hake, E. Fishel.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C.	C. Echlin. C. E. Droste, J. S. Courtney, BL C. Snee, H. A. Kitz, J. W. Frain, D. G. Taylor, A. J. Van Mourick, H. Melz, A. H. Chirhart, J. A. Kelly, W. M. O'ds, F. Moroney, G. E. Tourtillotte, F. Fishel, F. Maloney, D. O’Connor, W. T. Berthelet, W. Hanavin, J. H. Dwenger, J. R. Bender, F. B. Farrelly, L. J. Young, T. McGrath, A. B. Bender, E. S. Chirhart, J. Ruppe, C. Metz, J. Chaves, E. H. Kearney, E McGrath, M. Devitt.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly—Director op Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—M. Herrick, F. Woeber, W. P. Mahon, R. L. Johnson, J. Ruppe, E. Fishel, C. F. Perry, G. Truschel, A. Rohrback, W. Battermann, W. Johhson, G. Hagan, W. J. Kelley, H. Newman; Grammar—J. Falvey, C. Thiele, L. Keen, R. Parrett, F. Kleine, J. Morgan; Geography, and History—F. Kleine, W. Coghlin, A. Bodine, C. Murdock, J. Falvey, W. J. Kelley, H. O’Donnell, J. Cannon, F. Dever; Arithmetic —H. O’Donnell, J. Ruppe, W. Start, J. Scanlan; Book-keeping ----; Penmanship-----.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 16, 1879.
	•MaH	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	+ Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City-“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 18 “ 12 15 p. m 140 “ 4 05 “ 6 80 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 10 pm 1180 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦MaH	♦Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo -- Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 CO a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50 a, m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 p m. 12 45 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 530 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 138 a.m 8 30 “ 4 55 “ 7 30 “
Nlies and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted Henby C. Wentwobth,	H. B. Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
CHEAP READING_FOR THE MILLION.
Sadlier’s Household Library.
Comprising nearly 200 Volumes*
AT
15 AND 25 CENTS PER VOLUME, A Complete List sent free upon application.
It is the Intention of the publishers to continue this series of Cheap and Popular Works without limit should the undertaking continue to receive the encouragement and approval which has so far been bestowed upon it.
Nothing of the kind has yet been offered to the Catholic public that gives so much value for the money. The low price at which these books are sold, in quantities, enables their distribution in parishes to that extent as will, it is hoped, counteract the evil influences which result from a class of literature circulated Io such an alarming extent under the title of “Dime” and “cheap” novels.
*#*Any volume sent, postage prepaid, to any address, on receipt of the advertised price, by the publishers.
THE NEW YORK TABLET FOR 1889.
The Largest and Cheapest Catholic Paper in the U. S.
EXTRAORDINARY INDUCEMENTS
To Subscribers remitting the amount of their subscriptions in advance. LOOK AT OUR
PREMIUMS!
The proprietors of the New York Tablet are pleased to announce that they have had engraved at great expense a fine portrait of Ireland’s Great Liberator,
DANIEL O’CONNELL, which they are able to state is the only correct and life-like portrait of O’Connell that has yet been produced. The grandson of this illustrious patriot, now residing in this country, expresses his opinion of this work as the most authentic likeness of “ O’Connell ” extant, and highly compliments the artist on his great success in producing sneh a magnificent work of art. The size of the portrait is 19x24 inches. Or any of the following pictures: A fine steel engraving of DR. CAHILL engraved expressly for presentation; “AGONY IN THE GARDEN,” one fine steel engraving; portrait of LEO XHI, Father Burke, the Sacred Heart of Jesus or Mary, Henry Grattan, or Father Mathew, all of which were prepared expressly for presentation to those who remit the amount of their subscription in advance. All letters should be addressed to the publishers, and remittances should be by post office order or by draft on New York, drawn to the order of the undersigned. Sample copies sent free.
D.	& J. SADLIEB & CO.,
31 Barclay St., New York.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING BAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, ar-rlvesat Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m;
Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13 16 p. m. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo
2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago, 8 p.m.
8 03 am, Acrommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Rate, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
3. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLESB?AINE,Gen’lpt.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	79
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls your attention to the folio wins REASONS W Jt± V—if about to make a Journey to the GREAT WEST-you should Travel over it:
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union Depots, at all important points. No change of cars between Chicago, Kansas City, Leavenworth. Atchison or council Bluffs. Quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purposes, and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. A journey that furnishes the finest views of the fertile farms and pretty cities of Illinois. Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered as one of the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive at destination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty; calm, not angry. In brief, you get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of cost.
CHE HALE INTERIOR VIEW IF CAR
That the unremitting care of the Chicago, Kock Island & Pacific Kailway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the great assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the great citiesof the United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while en route to behold the wonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health,.pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October, the Company every year puts on sale. May 1st, at all coupon ticket offices in the United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver, Colorado Springs and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October 31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties of ten or more, good for ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.
EEMEMBEB, this is the most direct route for all points WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further information, time tables, maps or folders, call upon or address


ZEt. CABLE, Vics Pres't and Gen’l Manager, Chicago.
E. ST. JOEOT, Gen’l Ticket and Pasa’r Agent.
Weeklv IM ewspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published weekly af Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of 70.
THE AvE MABTA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. ■»* Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.	'
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &e., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWARDS,
Notbb Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
A. IT X> JEWELRY. All Kinds of Engraving Doi f*.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Matthews & Holt,
PLUMBERS & GASFITTERS,
■	MANUFACTURERS OF
GAS MACHINES,
AND DEALERS IN GASOLINE, 75 Dearborn St,, Unity Block, CHICAGO, ILL.
Refer by Permission to University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Nov. IO, 1ST" 8.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS
’	FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WESrE	:
		No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive		11.45 p.m. 12.53 aal 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	150 P.M. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest			7.50 am. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 pji. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 A.M. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 a.m. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	
Lima						
Ft. Wavne.						
Plymouth,’ Chicago,..					
					
					
*	G(		>IiNG EAST.			
		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8, Mai!.
Chicago... Plymouth, Ft. Wayne, Lima,	 Forest,.... Crestline,.		Leave	9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6.55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 aai. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30 a m 2.33 “ 4.05 “	..........
					
	...Arrive				• . .
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4 00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 P m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A AI. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a. m 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 PAi. 3.30
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line tha- runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEBS, & P.&T.A.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(MAIN BUILDING.}
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two smalljucturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, aud capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC. ’
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notbe Dame gives a more complete business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalouges, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very Rev W. COBBY, C. S C.. Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.