The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
z J
Volume VI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 15, 1873.
. Number. 27;
Doss Poverty or Riches Rest Develop Character ?
A question, dear Scholastic, to be answered in a different manner by different individuals. Many might with much apparent wisdom insist that wealth by affording every facility for obtaining information, by giving us recourse to books, to libraries, and to the society of the cultivated and refined,—and above all by furnishing us time for the study of the arts and sciences, for valuable travels, and for the free and deliberate exercise of the mental powers,—wealth, they might argue, would of necessity bring out a nobler growth of character than poverty.
Poverty, they might urge, presupposes a kind of slavery. The poor man’s time is not his own: it belongs to his employer. His thoughts must be fixed upon his monotonous labor. He is seldom or never brought in contact with active and brilliant minds; he listens to no noble conversation to kindle the electric fire of thought, and to warm and nourish the mental powers. The poor man must obtain his subsistence. Fatigue, and not an appetite for study, engrosses his attention after a day of hard labor.
Before proceeding, however, let us ask what character is implied in the question ? If it be the development of a love for gain, a desire for the comforts of life, and the like propensities, we would drop the question at once; but if the cultivation and growth of the nobler part of our being is the character of which we are to treat, we will cheerfully continue.
A compassionate heart, an unselfish disposition, a peaceloving soul, and a mind delighting in noble actions, we assume to be the result of the cultivation of which we are to speak.
Let us present facts,—which are, after all, the best of proofs. Here are two families, one surrounded with wealth and in the possession of every luxury, the other supported by the most constant labor and the most strict frugality of its members. The rich man after partaking of a most excellent breakfast leaves his elegant mansion with a great sense of satisfaction. He wants nothing. He has nothing to fear. What cares he for the sufferings of others ? He forgets all about them. They seem quite unreal, for he experiences no suffering. A little beggar boy crosses his path: “Please, sir,a few pennies, for the love of God!” cries the child. With the sad picture in his heart of a dying father and a sick and starving mother, he hopes to obtain something from the man who lives in such a palace. “ Go to work if you wish for money!” replies the rich man, and using his tooth-pick he passes along without a sign of disturbance. He is as satisfied as ever.
We cannot admire the character wealth has developed
in this man. He has a narrow heart with a wide estate The poor boy feels this. While pale and discouraged he waits in his path, the laboring man passes to his daily toil. He observes the sad face of the child. . “.What is the matter, my little man?” he says. “ Can I; help you?” “For love of God,” replies the boy, “ give, me something for my dying father and my starving mother!” The good man, not contented with dropping a few paltry pennies into the hand of the boy, goes with him to his home. He searches into the necessities of the family, and provides for their full relief. He has had himself to contend with adverse circumstances. God assisted him to triumph over them, and he cannot’refuse assistance to the poor.
In the examples above cited, we think there is proof that poverty—at least that degree of want which calls for constant exertions—is a favorable condition for bringing out noble character. This proof we gather from the conduct of the honest laborer. In him we behold a man who thinks. He reasons upon his relations to God and man. He acts instinctively from the beautiful impulse of charity; charity, that most sublime of the virtues. Again: we think a proof is to be observed also in the case of the poor little boy. Can the pampered child of wealth learn so correct a lesson of human nature as does the little beggar, who contrasts the haughty man with his warm-hearted benefactor? Then this little fellow.has his mother to support. Ah! now we have the charm of poverty when it has become the inheritance of a generous nature. It brings out the deep affections. It makes the heart, that portion of our being which allies us to the angels, unselfish and pore.
The poor child also, if he be a Christian, is not deprived of instruction. His Sundays and holydays are times devoted to the most ennobling instructions. He has no fiatter-ing friends to give a false tone to his impressions, or to dissipate bis mind and distract it. from good thoughts, as is often the case with those in affluent circumstances. He is not so much exposed to listen to sophistical criticisms, which poison truth before it has time to make a deep impression on the heart. The poor boy is more likely to do his own thinking. He keeps an upright character, for that is his wealth.	-
To conclude, we will give the most convincing proof of our conviction. There are persons possessed of wealth— and thank God the number is not small—who know how to use it as not abusing it. We see children of wealthy families courting the deprivations which belong to poverty as if they possessed a vigor in themselves; and behold Bernard of Citeaux and other nobles of the earlier centuries spurning their princely fortunes to dwell in seclusion bn frugal fare. It was through the embarrassed circumstances of a fallen estate that the great Sc. Francis Xavier pursued
210
THE SCHOLASTIC
I
hie studies. Aloysius of Gonzaga flew from wealth as from an enemy to the cultivation of his nobler powers of mind. We see the value set upon wealth by Isabella of Spain. Christopher Columbus, who, struggling, with poverty, was waiting to open the portals of a new world to the march of Christianity, found in her his sole friend. Her jewels she prized as the means of extending the empire of truth. Selfsacrifice more than any other trait promotes the unfolding of a noble character. Poverty nourishes the spirit of selfsacrifice, therefore poverty serves to most perfectly develop the soul of man. .	Florence Purcell.
The Esile’s Thoughts.
To-night our hearts are far away, ’ They’ve crossed the boundless sea,
To roam ’mid Erin’s vernal hills, Till dawn illumes the day.
Oh I blame us not, kind friends, because
We long again to view
Each hill and dale, each grove arid dell, Which we in childhood knew.
We long to scan those hallowed spots, Where valiant heroes sleep,
Who nobly died on battle-field . Z But could not live to weep.
We pause where brave Lord Edward lies: Our hearts nigh burst in twain, When low we bend before his dust, Who scorned the despot’s chain.
We gaze on Emmett’s lonely grave, The truest, best that died
To shield his land from England’s yoke, And haughty, crushing pride.
And Grattan loved, and chaste O’Bourke, The bravest of the brave, •
Who fell within his castle hold— A freeman—not a slave I
We kneel and sob where parents rest, And wait the piercing sound
Which issue shall from angel lips To wake those ’neath the ground.
We bend our heads where groves of pine
And funeral c\press wave, To drop a tear and heave a sigh Above the soggarMs grave.
We scan the fields where roamed we oft
In boyhood pure and free,
Pursuing bird and gaudy fly, Or honey-laden bee.
Our fathers’ cots we view once more,—
Are all their inmates gone ?
Ah, yes 1 we say it with a tear— A stranger rules each home.
Our task is o’er; with bursting hearts
We sadly cross the wave, To seek in fair Columbia’s land
An exile’s lonely grave I	Celt.
Parepa Rosa, wrote that she had been sitting on top of the pyramid of Gheops; and now the New York Commer-cicd Advertiser denies the report that the proprietors of the pyramid had sued her for damages.
State of the Mszicaas when the Spaniards . invaded. America. ■
At the time of the Spanish invasion, the Mexicans bad-made considerable advance towards a polished state of society, while their northern neighbors were mere hunters and fishers. If we may credit the accounts of the first visitors to these regions, the manners, government, and civilization were such as would not have disgraced even the polished nations of the Eastern hemisphere.
When the Spaniards invaded America, the Mexicans were well skilled in agriculture, and cultivated maize even in the mountainous country of Tlascala. They also understood gardening, and even botany; a garden belonging to the emperor was open to all who wished to obtain medicinal plants. The Mexican women were dexterous spinners, and manufactures of cotton and hair abounded everywhere. The public edifices and houses of the nobility in the city of Mexico were of stone and well built. The royal palace had thirty gates, opening to as many streets. The principal front was of jasper, black, red, and white, well polished. Three squares, built and adorned like the front, led to Montezuma’s apartment, which consisted of spacious chambers, the floors covered with mats of different kinds, and the walls hung with a mixture of cotton cloth and furs; the innermost room was adorned with hangings nf feathers, beautified with various figures in bright colors. The ceilings of this building were so artificially formed that large planks sustained each other without the help of nails.
The great causeway which traversed the lake, in which the city of Mexico was built, connecting it with the neighboring shore, was a striking proof of the industry and mechanical skill of this people. They had likewise, we are told, brought water into the city from a mountain at a league’s distance. They possessed artificers of great skill in the various branches of manufacture. Their drinking cups were of the finest earth, exquisitely made, of different colors, and sweetly perfumed. Their goldsmiths were skilful in moulding gold into various forms, particularly into the shapes of different animals.’ Their painters made landscapes and other imitations by means of feathers so artfully mixed as to rival the life and coloring of nature. Neither were they ignorant either of music and poetry; and one of their favorite amusements consisted in the rehearsal of songs celebrating the achievements of their ancestors.
In government, policy and laws, the Mexicans had made considerable progress. Their monarchy was elective; but the right of election as well as the privilege of being elected was confined to the princes of the royal blood. The emperor elect, before his coronation, was obliged to perform some warlike exploit, by which institution the military spirit of the empire was kept up. There was a revenue for the support of the crown, derived from mines of gold and silver, a duty upon salt and other manufactures, and a third part of the rent of all lands. The estates of the nobles were exempt. This privileged order were subject to no tribute, except the obligation to serve in the army with a number of their vassals, and to guard the person of the Emperor.
Various councils were appointed, among which were distributed the different departments of government. The management of the royal patrimony was alloted to one coun-

THE SCHOLASTIC.
rains, no overflowing of rivers, no fields affected with sterility, nor any one injured by the noxious hffiuence of the sun.
Such was the remarkable situation in which this nation of the New World was found by the Spaniards. Without any channel of intercourse with the civilized nations of the ancient continent, and situated in a climate which is not naturally favorable to the energy of the human character, it displayed a considerable advancement in the science of government, in military skill, and in many of the useful and ornamental arts of life.	“ Scott.”
c 1; appeals from inferior tribunals to another; the levying j of troops and the providing of magazines to a third; while i affairs of supreme importance were reserved fora council i of state. All these boards were composed of men experienced in the arts of war and peace; and the council of । state consisted of those who elected the emperor.	:
Police and education were matters of attentive concern in the Mexican government. During the fairs which were frequent and very numerously attended, judges were appointed who decided all. mercantile differences on the spot, and peace and good order w< re preserved by inferior officers, who made regular circuits for that purpose. The Spaniards were much amazed at the abundance and variety of commodities brought to market, and the good conduct observed by such multitudes. There were schools in Mexico allotted for plebeian children, and well-endowed academies for the nobility. The masters of these last were considered as officers of state, as it was their business to qualify young men for serving their king and country. The most honorable of all employments was that of a soldier, but it was judiciously enacted that when a young nobleman made choice of this profession he was sent to the army and made to suffer great hardships before he could be enrolled. Young women of quality were educated with no less care by proper matrons, chosen with the utmost circumspection. So strictly indeed was the distinction of ranks observed in Mexico, that the city was divided into two parts, one of which was appropriated to the emperor and nobility, and the other left to the plebeians. The Mexicans were a warlike people, as was sufficiently evinced by the brave defence which they made against the Spanish invaders. They had a variety of weapons, both offensive and defensive, and were not entirely ignorant of the art of • fortification. Military orders were instituted among them, with peculiar habits as marks of distinction and honor, and each cavalier bore the device of his order painted upon his robe, or affixed to it. Montezuma founded a new order of knighthood, into which princes only were admitted, or nobles descended from the royal blood, and the king bim-. self was numbered among its members. The knights of this order had part of their hair bound with a red ribbon, to which a tassel was fixed, hanging down to the shoulder. Every new exploit was honored with an additional tassel, a contrivance well adapted to render the knights eager to . embrace every new opportunity of signalizing themselves.
That the Mexicans had even made some proficiency in science is apparent from the ingenious method which they had adopted of regulating the calendar. The Mexican year consisted of 3G51£ days. It was divided into 18 months, of 20 days each, which in all made 360 days: the remaining five intercalary days were added at the end of the year, and were employed in diversions; and the fourth part of a day was allowed for, by adding 13 days at i the end of 52 years, which is equivalent to adding one every fourth year. But in the religious system of this singular people we discover too genuine tokens of the remains of barbarism. They not only practised human sacrifices, but they dressed and ate the flesh of those that were sacrificed. Their great temple was contrived to excite horror, being crowded with figures of venomous serpents, and even with the heads of the unfortunate victims of their faith. It affords a striking proof of the grossness of . their superstition, that every emperor, at his coronation, . was obliged to swear that there should be no unseasonable
A Subject for Apiarists.
Modern Science describes five distinct genera of the family of Apiariae, classifying them with reference to some striking peculiarity of habit, as the Hive-Bees, CarpenterBees, Mason-Bees, Humble or Bumble-Bees, and’ LeafCutters; but we have searched through volumes of scientific works and could find no description of an animal great or small corresponding with the subject under consideration. Our new species of the bee, however, we would refer partly to the genius Leaf-Cutter, though still we would be in favor of creating a new name, respectfully submitting that Game-Bee would be most appropriate, as will be evident from what follows.	-
By steady and careful observation, we discovered that a great animosity exists between it and flies, sometimes ripening into fearful contests. It is astonishing, as well as amusing, to witness the dexterity and despatch with which it catches and destroys multitudes of these pests of the household. It is really a gamester and a fly-catcher. In its latter sphere of usefulness to civilization in general, and to us in particular, it far surpasses the famous Hoosier FlyCatcher and the celebrated Yankee Fly-Trap in the amount of work done within a given time. One failing, however, it’possesses, but which we think can be overcome by systematic training, and that is the delight it seems to take in killing so often the same fly, and apparently never tiring of the act
It is unnecessaiy for us to say more concerning this little wonder, as we desire merely to draw the attention of our young naturalists to it, hoping that they will take the subject under inspection and give the readers of The Scholastic a full account of the result. We may be partly mistaken, and may have put our foot in a hornets’ nest unawares ; if such be the case, we are willing to suffer the consequent martyrdom. A correction, however, will be thankfully received. "	Kanugess.
Tite “ Buffalo Head ” has arrived, and now occupies a prominent place in our Museum; it is a very fine specimen of taxidermic art, and a most acceptable gift. Many thanks to the fair donor.	J. 0. C.
Professor Carrier—Seo. Sir: With to-day’s express I send a buffalo head. The animal was shot on the great American desert, or, as now called, the flower-garden of America. I hope you will deem the head worthy of a place in the Museum, for which I send it, in honor of brother Augustine’s graduating at Notre Dame. Hoping you will accept it, with my compliments,	I subscribe myself,
Kansas City, Missouri.	Kate Tammany.
Odd Thing—An even make-up.
212
THE SCHOLASTIC
Th® Schulastic, Published every Weelc during Term Time, at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
■ All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TEBMS: One year........................$2 00
One session (5 months).......... 1 25
Single copies (10c) of the pnbiieation can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Rev. Father Lauth has been named and appointed Pastor of the Parish of Lowell. He will put forward the work on the new church with vigor.
The congregation of St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, .will celebrate the 17th, in honor of the Patron of their .church. High Mass at 9 in the morning. The banquet will come off in Veasey’s Hall in the evening.
- We have received an invitation from Bro. Arsene, Superior of the Academy of St. Joseph, Cincinnati, to be present at the celebration of the patronal feast of his flourishing institution. His Grace, the Archbishop of Cincinnati, -has kindly promised to say a Pontifical Mass in the Academy chapel, and afterwards to bless a Munich statue of the Blessed Virgin, which has been presented to the institution. We regret we cannot accept the invitation, as our little duties at home prevent us from meeting our friends in Cincinnati on the 19th,and our friends in Chicago on the 17th. Rev. Father Conway, an old student of Notre Dame, Pastor of St, Patrick’s Church, Chicago, will celebrate the 17th in his Church, Rt. Rev. Bishop Foley officiating pontifically, and Rev. Father P. Rierdan, also an old student of Notre Dame, preaching the panegyric. It would give us great pleasure to accept Father Conway’s invitation, and at the same time greet our friend, Mr. John Fitzgibbon, President of the Irish Literary Association, who thas extended to us an invitation to the banquet given by the Society. But though we cannot accept the invitations in person, we send our heartfelt greetings to our friends.
Fly-Catches.
A Husher.—It is thought that on some occasions a . husher would be a very acceptable officer.
- Astronomical.—It has been asserted that the moon is - behind time several weeks. Perhaps it is a little luny.
Soiree.—The second Musical Entertainment of the year was given on the evening of the 9th inst. Another Entertainment soon.
Green Grass.—In our perambulations the other day we were pleased to notice a few spears of green grass. Pleased, because it gave us warning that Spring would soon be here.
Walks.—It so happened that for many months past such a thing as a good long walk was quite out of the question, and now that we have had a little Spring we find them . quite a novelty.
Minstrels.—One day last week—Saturday, we believe —the play-hall was visited by three Italian musicians—two harps and a violin. Their music reminds one of the fabled music of Orpheus, which caused the stones, trees, etc., to
move. This, however, caused the inmates to dance. The students made up several dollars for them, and we hope it proved as profitable to them as it was pleasing to the students.
Base-Ball.—This is, as usual about this time of the year, the subject of much conversation, and much is said about playing on St. Patrick’s Day; yet we think gentle March has a vote in the matter, and may vote in the negative. A few fine days are sufficient to rouse the spirits of base-balldom. The Minims act wisely, and do not think of base-ball, but wait until the season arrives. They always look out for the present, and put in full time at recreation.
The first extra recreation for some time past was granted on the afternoon of Saturday last. Every one called it a beautiful day, and indeed it did generate in us a spirit of recreation. But we must remark that we do not use this term as synonymous with “ Spring fever”; far from it. The day, though beautiful overhead, and blessed with the balmy air of Spring, was not so pleasant for those who look towards the earth. Yet as we always look up we did not mind it.
Society Papers—Each of the Literary Societies of the College publishes a paper. This speaks well, and especially at this time of the year. The Societies have been successful this year, and the literary spirit manifested of late gives us a favorable impression of them. The “ Literary Gem ” has a very tasty cover, and, we have every reason to believe, is ably edited. “ The Two-Penny” is still among the living. This, we believe, is the oldest Society paper about the College. “Write frequently to compose well” seems to be the motto.
Fly Tips.—The new boxes that have been placed in the wash-rooms are to be reckoned among the improvements of the past few weeks. The boat-house is nearly completed. The play-hall is full of games of various kinds, which are in constant use. The weather has moderated so much that not much fire-is required in this locality; the firemen are taking a rest, but no doubt they will have more cold weather to attend to before the Summer dawns upon us, or good-natured Spring becomes satisfied to spend a few months with us. Its disposition is quite peevish now, as the base-ballists can fully testify. But taking all in all, the play-hall is the liveliest place around. Bro. Thomas of course continues to visit here at fixed times, and is always expected and welcomed.
The New Church.—Bricks are being piled up in great numbers about the walls of the new church, which tells us that active work will begin here as soon as the weather permits. The walls of the tower alone remain to be completed. No doubt it will be finished before another Autumn. The stone-cutters, too, are at their work, and quite an amount of stone has been and is yet to be prepared.
Talking of bricks, we may say that the man who pretended to bum bricks for the College last year either knew nothing of the business or is not over-scrupulous as to the ingredients which formed the constituent parts of his bricks. Indeed the College will have to throw away as useless a large percentage of . this abominable mixture of stone, dirt and sand, a great portion of which is not even scorched by the heat of the kiln. It is a sign of the age, they say; boldfacedness is no doubt the ces triples needed at the present time. An excellent brickmaker has been given the contract for one million of bricks for the College’s use this year.
THE S C H
O L A S T I C.	213
The Nones of Mauch —The 7th of the present month being St. Thomas Aquino’s D ty, is one which the Class of Moral Philosophy are ever mindfulof, it being a long and well-established cusiom at Notre Dame for the Class to have this as'a free day; indeed it would seem that it has a history of its own at Notre Dame. Well, custom is law, they say, and the Class obtained the wished-for permission. The day was well employed, but not in Indiana. On the road to Niles the only thing of note is the city of .Bertrand, in the suburbs of which the train stopped for ■refreshments. This city, by the way, has almost recovered from the great conflagration. Many of the old students remember well “ the burning of Bertrand.” We cannot enter into the details of the depot building.
■	Our Music Boz.
The Band has in preparation the overture from “ Jean de Paris ” by Boieldieu.
The Oddities of Musicians.—Lully labored like.a feeble amateur. He sat down at the piano with his snuffbox; he sang and played till, by means of trying here and there, up and down, he fancied he discovered the most suitable melody. The discovery he then communicated to some subordinate, who took down the direction, and ■ that was the end of it. Sarti required a large dark room, even at night but feebly lit up; his musical ideas came to him only in the stillness of the night. Of Spontiui, too, we somewhere read that he was able to compose only in the daik. Cimarosa wanted noise about him; he liked best to work in merry company. Saleri, to excite his fancy, strolled about in the most frequented streets, eating bon-bons, with lead-pencil and paper in hand, to be ready when the occasion offered. Paer composed, chatted, scolded, disputed, all at once. Sacchini felt himseif incapable of getting a melody unless he was with his lady-love and had his little ki ttens about him. Alexis G esca, if one may lay faith to eye-witnesses, resorted to a similar means— the bottle served him instead of a lady-love, and for kittens he tried to get a little dog. Pislello remained in bed when he intended composing—a cheap practical means, as trustworthy contemporaries have assured us; it saves fuel, clothing, etc. Zingarelli, before sitting down at the piano to compose, read a few pages of a Latin poet; then, however, he worked so easily that he was able to write in four hours—four hours we say—a whole act of “ Romeo and Juliet.” When Father Haydn couldn’t get on, he would take his rosary aud say a few Ates and, generally, inspiration returned. In another place we read—probably of later years—Haydn sat quietly down in a chair, but he must have upon his finger the ring that Frederick the Great had once given him. In London, however, this expedient seems to have proved unavailing, for we have a report that once the master had no inspiration left at all; for two weeks he vainly tortured himself to get an appropriate continuation to the first eight bars of an “ andante.” It is well known that it has been thought some connection existed between Mozart’s fondness for billiards and tenpins and his musical disposition. Beethoven went out into the open air, into the magnificence and solitude of nature. Mehal was a lover of flowers and liked to sojourn in pretty gardens. Mendelssohn, it said, always had bouquets at his desk. Halevey always required the sound of boiling water
to become “ disposed.” Auber, a good rider, mounted his horse, in order to gain the romantic country, where the artist finds every thing he needs; in after year*, when the celebrated composer'was an old, very old gentleman, he probably composed his operas on foot. Francois Hunten felt most luspired for composition in Autumn. He walked up and down his room catching flies—no very difficult task at that season of the year—and thus were produced more than two hundred compositions, the greater part of which may be found on every piano.
The St. Ceciliaas.
The 28th and 29th regular meetings were held on March 2nd and Sth respectively.
At the 28th regular meeting Mr. Stubbs gave in good style the History of the Original Thirteen Colonies. The following delivered declamations: L. O. Hibben, W. Gross, E. Ohmer, and W. Meyer.
At the 29th regular meeting the following delivered declamations: J. Ewing, J. McGrath, O. Tong, J. McHugh, W. Green, J. Dunne, J. Campbell, A. Reid, J. Marks, W. Gross, D. O'Connell, V. McKinnon, and W. Ball. Compositions were read by J. McGinnis, J. O’Connell, and R. Hutchings.	W. Bbeen, Cor. Sec.
Ths American Elocutiomst and, Dramatic Bsader.
This book, compiled by our friend Professor Joseph A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, is now in its second edition. We have examined it with considerable care, throwing upon it as much of “ the light of other days” as possible, by making a mental comparison between its excellencies and the crude melange which characterized similar works forty years ago. We have thus established in our judgment the conclusion that Prof. Lyons has conferred a great benefit on both teacher and pupil and discovered for a certainty the reason why we are not an orator. If the Roman adage “ Orator fit ” be a true one, then the time is past for us to havens. The merits of this work are many. It carries with it a vigor, a freshness and originality which seldom creep into a compilation of any sort. The analytical introduction by Rev. M. B. Brown is of great value, and proves him to be an adept in the art of elocution. The book should be in all schools, and will adorn any library.—Turner's Annual.
Ths “Eatio Pura.”
We have lately heard so much praise of the memory and the external perceptions, and so many inculcations of the necessity of repleting-the former by means of the latter, that we are somewhat in danger of believing that these are the only faculties of the mind worth educating.
Alas for human superiority over the brute if it be based on memory and the senses! The faithful hound of Ulysses, which recognized his master in the guise of a beggar after an absence of twenty years, puts human memory to shame. As for the human senses,—the eye of the hawk,—the ear of the timid hare,—the scent of most predatory animals —leave our poor faculties far behind,—not to speak of that nameless sense which enables the captured bee, when let loose by the bee-hunter, to make a bee-line for her hive.
214
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Man cannot even walk in a straight line through the same woods. In fact, so evident is the superiority of animals in poiiJt of acuteness of the senses, that the Sensist sect of Philosophers have boldly proclaimed that the human hand alone is the cause of all the mental superiority of man over the brute. They do not explain how it is that monkeys, with four hands and a prehensile tail besides, hold so low a place in the scale of intelligence.
But let us compare men with men, if we would find the true value of memory and the senses. In whom do we find these powers most highly developed ? Go down to the Indian territory, among those who look with scorn upon civilization, and you will find men who cannot forget— men who will track your footsteps across the elastic grass of the prairie. And withal you will find them mere brutes—with moral sense so blunted that the most flagrant ■wrongs are right in their eyes, and the Christian virtues are crimes.	.
On the other hand, behold the men whose intellects have burned like shining beacons before the enraptured gaze of their fellow-creatures. Behold St. Thomas Aquinas — dull to a proverb among his fellow-students—(and early • dullness at school is always the dullness of the perception and memory)—but with the intellect of an angel. Whose mind-was of most service to mankind—his or the Emperor Adrian’s, who, after reading a book, could repeat it from beginning to end; or if a list of names, confusedly mixed together, were recited to him, could repeat them all without a mistake?
If there were no other mode of reasoning than the inductive, a number of facts and an extensive experience would indeed be necessary to the exercise of thought. Happily, however, we have implanted within us a faculty by which we know certain truths intuitively, and by the combination of these truths-we may discover others by deduction— ■ not induction—by a process based on absolute certitude, not on probability, the very highest form of which includes ■ the liabilityto err.
This faculty, known to philosophers as the ratio pura, is that by which we know what necessarily is. It is the mathematical faculty. Its concepts are not the objects of sense. A perfect sphere has never come under the perception of our senses, aud yet our idea of a perfect sphere is as clear and definite as any idea we have derived from external
• objects. Nay more, the centre of a sphere not only never has been, but never could possibly be, brought under cognizance of the senses, since it is without extension or parts, nevertheless, its sole attribute of position is sufficient to make it cognizable to the ratio pura.
But if mathematics were the limit of the exercise-of this faculty, it would be shorn of all its glory; for its glory is that by it we know the Ens simpliciter—the First Cause of all things—the Eternal—the Omnipotent—the Omniscient— the Immutable—the True—the Beautiful—the Good—the Light that enlighteneth every man that cometh into the world—not through the senses, by which we can perceive contingent things alone, but through the image of Himself impressed on the soul at its creation—the innate idea of Divinity, which exists in every human heart, and has gen. erated a word to express itself in every human language.
Let those who maintain that the human mind at birth is a tabula rasa, set up a tabula rasa instead of the- crucifix. It is .the image .of their G}od.	S.
' Class Honors.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1873. Preparatory Course—Senior Department.
T. Hansard, F. H. Buter, J. E. Devine, T. Keenan, J. J. Gillen, F. C. St. Aubin, H. F. Randolph, E. L. Spitley, J. McDermott, P. O’Meara, J. E. Kelly, L. Sanders, J. F. Bumham, F. Scraf-ford, J. Murphy, W. Bartlett, G. Ruger, T. J. Fitzpatrick, C. Spears, J. Gillespie, J. Rofinot, J. P. Hoffman, W. Van’t Woud, L. Burridge, A. Chapoton, G. Brown, W- Gavitt, J. K. Finley, J. A. Brown, M. Brown, P. Lilly, P. J. Byrne, P. McNaughton, J. Ferry, E. Kimm, J. Flynn, J. B. Begue, V. Baca, J. A. Claf-fey, J. Hand.
Junior Department. *	'
G. Gross, W. Green, A. Kleine, W. Breen, J. Arentz, J. Hackett, T. McGee, V. McKinnon, F. Cronin, F. Austin, E. DeGroot, W. Ohlen, W. Hake, F. Sweger, S. Marks, V. Hansen, J. Dore, H. Zuber, J. Wanbaugh, W. Rumely, J. Hilliard, F. Dowe, W. Schulthies, E. Holt, W. Dexter, T. Mullen, W. Morgan, S. McMahon, N. Vannamee, C. Campeau, J. McIntyre, E. McMahon, L. Best, D. Salazar, J. Golsen, C. V. Reid, F. Miller, E. Moran, J. Burnside, A. B. Reid, T. Phelan, P. Brosseau, J. Campbell, J. Graham, J. McHugh, W._Haney, J. Grace, F. J. Weisenberger, W. Pollard, H. Enneking, W. Kinzie, H. Hoffman, L. Van’t Woud, D. Tansey, A. Mitchell, M. Hilliard, W. McMahon, J. S. McNally, L. Busch, J. Williams, F. Mulligan, B. Casey, M. Casey, N. J. Mooney, L. Munn, C. Burger, A. Kreiter, J. D. Wilson, A. Mulmiller, H. Kinley, W. Converse, J. S. Cunningham, H. Shephard, J. McGinnis, B. Baca, R. Hutchings, L. Scalia, J. Daly, P. Daly, J. Callaghan, J. Tobin, C. Carey, J. Ewing, F. Ewing, F. X. Claffey, R. Beaudoin. .
Ngte.—The Class Honors for February 28th, above given, should have appeared last week, but by some oversight were not presented in time for publication.—Director of Studies.
.	FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1873.
GERMAN.
W. Ball, P. Brosseau, J. Crummey, J. Dore, H. Faxon, J. Golsen, J. Graham, J. Hanley, C. Hake, W. Hake, J. Lambin, S. Marks, A. Mooney,-W. Pollard, G. Ruger, J. Wanbaugh, N. J. Mooney.
French.—J. Dunn, G. Gross, J. Rofinot.	•
DRAWING.
Seniors.—J. Schmidt, E. S. Monahan, W. Van’t Woud, L. D. Hinkston, A. Horne, J. D. Georse, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, E. G. Graves, P. McNaughton, H. Hug, W. Gaar.
Juniors.—A. Schmidt, H. Nirdlinger, J. Lynch, J. Culleton, L. Munn, L. Van’t Woud, O. Waterman, E. Ohmer, W. Schul-tbies, W. Rumely, C. Hake, R. Kelly, H. Hirsch, V. Hansen, L. Busch, F. Smyth.
. PIANO.
W. Campbell, W. Schulthies, F. Perri, C. Ruger, J. Campbell, J. Francis, W. Francis, J. Crummey, C. V. Reid, J. Golsen, F. Miller, H. Zuber, V. McKinnon, W. Ball, D. McAndrews, V. Baca, A. Kleine, G. Nestor, J. Graham, J. McGinnis, W. Robinson, L. Watson, F. Smyth, D. O’Connell, J. Glennen, C. Campeau, V. Phelan, L. Busch, C. Nirdlinger, P. Lilly, C. Hake, E. Raymond.
VIOLIN.
J. Brennan, F. Miller, W. Rumely, H. Beekman, L. Van’t Woud, E. Kimm, Jos. Schmidt, W. Kinzie, J. O’Connell, S. McMahon, J. Lynch, W. Chapoton, J. D. McCormick, J. McHugh, J. Hackett, L. Loser, J. Lambin, J. McGrath, T. Keenan.
Flute.—E. Ohmer, W. Ohlen, W. Fletcher.
Clarionet.—G. Brown.
Guitar.—M. Torbett, P. Daly.
Saxehorn.—A. Horne.	-
Roll of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week peceding the given date.}	'
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1873.
Minim Department.
H. Faxon, A. Wetherbee, J. Cooney, T. Hooley, E. Raymond, C. Faxon, J. O’Meara, E. Cleary, C. Walsh, F. Carlin, A. Murphy- . .	...
THE SCHOLASTIC.
215
SAINT MARTS’ ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, March 12, 1873.
On the 5th inst. the Faculty and pupils at St. Mary’s had the honor and pleasure of listening to a very instructive and interesting lecture from, the President of Notre Dame College—Rev. Father Lemonnier. The subject of the lecture was “Education, the Basis of Civilization.” This was the second lecture of the promised course, and, judging from the instruction and pleasure already afforded, many more fine literary treats are anticipated.
The pupils are delighted to receive such prompt responses to the letters sent by the different Classes to Very Rev. Father General and their beloved Mother Angela. Good wishes and fervent prayers follow the travellers, and all look forward with pleasure to the day that will bring them home to dear St. Mary’s, where a most earnest welcome awaits them.
Miss March has doffed her wrappings, and is now basking in sunshine. The Juniors and Minims are imitating her and cheering her footsteps with their merry laughter. Let us hope she will not play any of her practical jokes on the little innocents by again pinching them with cold or literally blowing them up as she does the dry leaves when she gets to blustering around.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet ok Honor, (Sr. Dep’t.), March 9,1873.
Misses K. Zell, Mary Cochrane, M. Lassen, Alice Shea, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, M. Lange, A. Todd, L. Niel, M. Kearney, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, R. Spier, M. Comer, L. Black, N. Langdon, Emma Haggarty, A. Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Ida Wilder, Bay Reynolds, L. Ritchie, B. Grace, L. Daly, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church, J. Locke, L. Dragoo, E. Boyce, E. Plamondon, S. Shipley, J. JFanning, A. Keeline, Annie T. Clarke, L. Weinreich, Ella Quinlan, N. McEwen, Mary McGuire, Agnes Conahan, Lucy Penniman, S. Chenoweth, Mary White, A. Stockton, L. Forrester, K. Wickham, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, L. Scheiber, Fannie Snouffer, T. Heckman, K. Iseman, Nora McMahon, Mary Lyons, H. Miller, Louisa Lilly, M. Kane, B. Turnbull, Cora Lee, J. Noonan, A. Hambleton, Nellie Foote, L. Beckman, Annie O’Connor, Nellie Heedy, A. Reid, R. Woolman, L. Pfeiffer, Ettie Burney, M. Quill, K. Casey, L. Ritchie, R. Rosesco, M. E. Roberts.
•	Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Misses K. Zell, M. Cochrane, L. King, A. Todd,' M. Lange, A. Shea, M. Lassen, K. Haymond, B. Crowley, A. Mast.
First Senior Class—Lizzie Niel, Mary Kearney, Annie M. Clarke, Nellie Gross, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Rosemary Spier, L. West, Libbie Black, Nellie Langdon, Marietta Ward, Emily Haggarty.	‘
Second Senior Class—Julia Kearney, Bridget Grace, Lizzie Daley, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church, Esther Boyce.	.
Third Senior Class—Jennie Walton, J. Fanning, Amelia Keeline, Annie T. Claike, Laura Weinreich, Jennie Noonan, Addie Hambleton, Nellie Foote, H. L. Beckman, Annie O’Connor, Nellie Heedy, Annie Reid.
First Preparatory Class—E. Wade, B. Wade, R. Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, Clara Germain, Ettie Burney, Flora
Rush, Mary Quill, Lizzie Ritchie, Emma Ives, B. Gaffney, R. Rosesco, M. E. Roberts, Ella Quinlan, Nellie McEwen, Mary McGuire, Agnes Conahan, L. Penniman.
Second Preparatory Class—S. Chenoweth, Mary White, M. Dillon, Dora Simonds, L. Forrester, R. Marr, K. Wickham, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, L. Scheiber, Fannie Snouffer, T. Heckman.
Third Preparatory Class—N. McMahon, H. Miller, Nellie Hinkston, Mary E. Black, Rose McKeaver, L. Lilly? Mary Kane, B. Turnbull.
PLAIN SEWING.
L. Crowley, K. Haymond, L. King, A. Todd, R. Spier, L. Neil, M. Brown, M. Ward, R. Devoto, M. E. Roberts, B. Reynolds, M. Wicker, L. Dent, A. Keeline, E. Boyce? A. Lloyd, B. Grace, M. Phinney, L. Ritchie, M. Quill, B. Wade, S. Chenoweth, B. Johnson, S. Smith, N. McAuliffe R. Klar, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, L. Scheiber, M, Lyons, R. McKeaver.	.
Tablet of Honor (Jr. Dep’t), March 11,1873.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, K. Joyce, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, T. Schulte, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch, N. Vigil, M. Carlin, M. Brown, M. Reynolds, M. Ewing, M. Hildreth, M. Walsh, J. and M. Thompson, K. Schmidt, L. Schuerle, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, A. Noel, A. Burney, E. Lang, E Lappin, M. Booth, C. Walker, A. Koch, K. Follmer, C. Smith, E. Jackson, K. Hector, A. Ewing, D. Allen, E. Hassler, L. Walsh, M. Kaeseberg, EL Bolton, A. Green, J. Tallman, N. Lloyd.
Honorably Mentioned in the
Second Senior Class—E. Richardson, A. Smith.
Third Senior Class—K. Joyce.
First Preparatory Class — L. Tinsley, M. Faxon, A. Walsh.
Second Preparatory Class—L. McKinnon, B. Quan, M. Hepp, M. Martin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch, N. Vigil.
Third Preparatory Class—M. Carlin, M. Brown, M. Reynolds, M. Ewing.
First Junior Class—N. O'Meara, M. Hildreth, M. Walsh, K.-Schmidt, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, A. Noel, A. Burney, E. Lang, K. Lloyd, E. Lappin, M. DeLong, M. Booth, R. Hooley, C. Walker, K. Follmer, C. Smith.
Second Junior Class—A. Paulsen, E. Jackson, K. Hector, A. Ewing, D. Allen, E. Hassler, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, S. Lynch, M. Ware, M. Kaeseberg, K. Bolton.
Third Junior Class—A. Green, J. Tailman, A. and M. Green, N. Lloyd.
An amusing experiment has been made by Signor de Michelis, of Civita Vecchiai whose, new opera, rather incon gruously called “ L’ Homo,” contains only female parts and female choruses.
SEEDS, PLANTS, TREES, PREPAID BT MAIL,
A Ty new-priced descriptive Catalogue of Choice Flower and HA Garden Seeds, 25 sorts of either for $1 ; new and choice varieties of Fruit and Ornamental Trees, Shrubs, Evergreens, Roses, Grapes, Lilies, Small Fruits, House and Border Plants and Bulbs; one-year Grafted Fruit Trees for mailing; Fruit Stocks of all kinds ; Hedge Plants, etc.; the most complete assortment in the country, will be sent gratis to any plain address, with P. O. Box. True Cape Cod Cranberry for upland or lowland, 86 per 1,000 ; SI per 100; prepaid by mail. Trade List to dealers. Seeds on Commission. Agents wanted.
B M. WATSON, Old Colony Nurseries and Seed Warehouse, Plymouth, Massachusetts. Established 1842.	.
n27t6
216
THE SCHOLASTIC.

A Catholic Joubnal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription, $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years. $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Aye Mabia for $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Mabia for $15, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria for $50. in advance.
The postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	.	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
TRIRTT.TWO PAGSS EV2E7 JSONTH. §1.00 J?JELT ANNUM.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar to the Editor,	*
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NILES I SO UTH BEND R.R.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles, -	6.50 a m. Arrive South Bend, -	7.30 a.m
“	9 35 a.m. “	“	10.15 a.m
“	4.5'1 p.m. “	“ t 5.30 p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.4<i :um. I Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
“	11.45 a.m. I *•	12 25 pm
“	“	6.30 p.m. |	“	7.10 p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m “	“	5.30 p.m. |	11	“	6.30 p.m
. S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
UKIVEESITY or K0TEE DAME. INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted np with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS: Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$500
Board, Bel and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -.	- 150 00
French, German Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	-- 10 00
■ Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing. -	-	-	--	--	--	--	-15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	.	5 00
Graduation Fee— Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 16 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are " charged, extra. ----------	35 00
.Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books. Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Bev. A. LBMONJriEH, C.S.C., President.
L. S. & AL & RAILWAY.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
rpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a.	m.
“	“	12.25 p.	m.
“	“	9.15 p.	m.
“	“	12 35 a. tn. -
“	'	“	8.2ii p.	m.
“	“	4.35 p	m.
EAST.
Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a.	m
“	“	4.05	a.	m'
“	“	1.35 p.	nr
“	“	5 30 p.	m
Runs io Elkhart.
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m.
•’	“	2.55 a. m.
“	“	5.00 a. m.
“	“	[605 p in.
“	11	6.37 a.	in.
“	. “	8.20 a.	m.
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m *•	*•	6.50	a.	m
“	“	S.2ii	a.	m
“	“	9.40	p.	m
“	“	10.30	a.	m
“	12.30 p. in
Making connectionwith all trains West and North.	-
X®* For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.	'	.
X®-Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
J. H. DEVEREUX, General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio. .
CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J W. CabY, General Ticket Agent, Ciei eland, Ohio.
3. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. ToECHAltD, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.	’
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a.m.; 9.25 p.m.
Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANLFF, Agent.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line
(ttRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-(Bp ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line -
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenoua, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Mairi Line.
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, ana also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 57:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield* only. $ Except Saturday. 5 Dail y. § Except. Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis caily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass. and. Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent, ’
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
PJENNSYL VASIA GOTRAL
DOUBLE TEA0K EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago !).00 p. m | Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m*
2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41a. m*
3rd train “	“	9.00 p. m |	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, arid, at Mannrfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad. ■
J. N McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
3. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GV7INNER, Gon Pass and Ticket Ag’t Philadelphia.
F. R. MYEK8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag't Pittsburgh
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.	.