Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper victnrixs; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.	NOTBE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 30, 1878.	Number 31.

The Palmer’s Vision.
Noon o’er Judea! All air was beating With the hot pulses of the day’s great heat;
The birds were silent; and the rill, retreating Shrank.in its covert, and complained apart.
When a lone pilgrim, with his scrip and burden, Dropped by the wayside weary and distressed, His sinking heart grown faithless of its guerdon— The city of his recompense and rest.
No vision yet of Galilee and Tabor!
No glimpse of distant Zion thronged and crowned! Behind him stretched his long and useless labor, Before him lay the parched and stony ground.
He leaned against a shrine of Mary, casting Its balm of shadow on his aching head, And worn with toil, and faint with cruel fasting, He sighed: “O God! OGod! that I were dead !
“The friends I love are lost or left behind me:
In penury and loneliness I roam!
These endless paths of penance choke and blind me;
Oh come and take thy wasted pilgrim home!”
Then with the form of Mary bending o’er him, Her hands in changeless benediction stayed, The palmer slept, while a swift dream upbore him To the fair paradise for which he prayed.
He stood alone, wrapped in divinest wonder;
He saw the pearly gates and jasper walls Informed with light, and heard the far-off thunder Of chariot wheels and mighty waterfalls.
From far and near, in rhythmic palpitations, Rose on the air the noise of shouts and psalms;
And through the gates he saw the ransomed nation, Marching and waving their triumphant palms.
And white within the thronged Empyrean, A golden palm-branch in His kingly hand, He saw his Lord, the gracious Galilean Amid the worship of His myriads stand!
“O Jesus! Lord of glory! Bid me enter!
I worship Thee! I kiss Tby holy rood! ”
The pilgrim cried, when from the burning centre A broad-winged angel sought him where he stood.
“ Why art thou here ? ” in accents deep and tender Outspoke the messenger. “ Dost thou not know That none may win the city’s rest and splendor, Who do not cut their palms of Jericho ?
“ Go back to earth, thou palmer empty-handed!
Go back to hunger and toilsome way !
Complete the task that duty hath commanded, And win the palm thou hast not brought to-day! ”
And then the sleeper woke, and gazed around him;
Then springing to his feet with life renewed, He spumed the faithless weakness that had bound him, And, faring on, his pilgrimage pursued.
The way was hard, and he grew halt and weary, But one long day, among the evening hours, He saw beyond a landscape gray and dreary The sunset flame on Salem’s sacred towers!
O, fainting soul that readest well this story, Longing through pain for death’s benignant balm!
Think not to win a heaven of rest and glory If thou shalt reach its gates without thy palm!
■—Scribner.
Ireland, and her Faith.
BY T. F. O’G.
Nations, as well as individuals, have their days of glory and their days of sorrow. They rise but to work more effectually the designs of God, and fall when their mission is at an end. It is God who exalts or casts down, rewards or chastises, according to His own good pleasure. One empire alone is destined to stand till time is no more—the empire of the Church, against y.'hich the gates of hell shall never prevail.
What subject more worthy of his study and admiration could we bring before the eyes of every true Irishman, or what picture more replete with moral beauty and sublimity than his own beloved Ireland? What can better prove the ennobling virtues of the soul, or raise the mind to a more sublime height, than a nation struggling in the midst of adversity for the sake of religion and patriotism? A writer has said that the most meritorious spectacle in the eyes of God was that of a just man struggling with adversity. What then must it be when a whole nation, dur ing many long years, offers to Heaven the most sublimevirtues in the midst of the most extreme trials!
Before dwelling on the period of her suffering, let us take a cursory glance at Ireland during the golden days of her glory and liberty. We will not tarry on the ravages and barbarity of the Danes. These ruthless Northmen, who had succeeded in establishing themselves and their customs in England, Holland, Normandy and the south of Italy, came to establish themselves in Ireland. But after an unrelenting warfare of two hundred years, the sword of brave Brien Boru was plunged into the heart of the invader, and he was driven forever from the soil of Ireland. The Roman eagle never waved over the fair isle, the only nation of Europe that had not received the civilizing influence of the Romans.
Ireland had once a glorious history: when music, poetry and literature were the characteristics of the country; when she was the mart of learning, and the resort of the
482
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
* students of all nations. When Europe was a corpse beneath, the hoof of the Vandals, then was Ireland famous; then was she “the school of the West,” the quiet habitation of sanctity and learning. She had a glorious history before the crowning of Charlemagne'; before the crescent waved over the fair fields of Andalusia; and when war waged like an angry demon in the heart of Europe she held up the torch of knowledge as a beacon and received with open arms all those who sought shelter and science within her peaceful bosom. But alas! her day of suffering and woe had dawned; and her harp, once tuned to joy and liberty, now
“Is fed with wasted life ; to tears its numbers flow,
And strung with chords of broken hearts is Erin’s future woe.”
From the advent of Henry II down to the time of Henry VIII, the struggle between the Irish and English was a series of bloody contests between the sept system and feudalism. It was Henry the Second’s professed intention to put an end to the long feuds and dissensions existing between the various clans of Ireland, and which had ever proved a bane to that beautiful and devoted land. Whether his intentions were real or feigned is a matter of doubt among historians. At any rate several of the native chieftains, weary of their long dissensions, paid homage to him as one who was come to restore peace and tranquillity to the island. The English began to feudalize the country by dividing the land among the colonists, and building castles for the lords of the domain. But these patriotic chieftains, for some time dupes of the wily policy of their enemies, now perceived that their real object was to deprive themselves and their countrymen of their lawful inheritance; that inheritance which their sires had ever preserved free from invaders, and which they were now ready to defend to their last breath. Inflamed with that deep love of patriotism which is second only to religion in the heart of an Irishman, the Irish septs flew to arms, and for four hundred years boldly sustained the unequal contest with their enemies, never yielding an inch of their territory without a death-struggle. More than once they were on the point of finally triumphing and expelling the invaders, when some unhappy division in their own ranks, or some other untoward event, would incline victory in favor of ' their enemies.
The English finally became owners and lords of nearly the whole island; and the poor inhabitants, being in possession of a small portion only, were treated as helots and slaves, and, says a writer, with a cruelty which had never been exceeded in any age or country. They were determined to subdue the Irish, and, if possible, wholly to extirpate them from the island. But the stern and noble spirit of the Irish people was as inflexible as the stubborn will that bent it. Goaded to desperation by these and similar acts of tyranny, the Irish septs often flew to arms, but each formidable insurrection was put down by an overwhelming royal army, which nearly always followed up the victory by a wholesale massacre and spoliation. Many families of the best blood of Ireland, being left without shelter, were forced to fly from their country, and eke out a subsistence on the Continent, where Irish chieftains on many a battle-field won admiration and distinction by that valor which had animated them in the cause of Erin. Had it not been for this lamentable division among the septs, the authority of England might have been shaken off. But the nation was divided, and it required some great and general calamity to unite them together, and
make them one people. We shall see how Providence effects this. Thus for four hundred years did Ireland contend, with the most heroic patriotism, for liberty. But heart-rending and sickening as is this epoch, it cannot be compared with the wars and atrocities she underwent during the three hundred years following. If England’s misrule was a bane to Ireland, England’s Protestant bigotry was a curse a hundredfold greater and heavier. England had subdued the bodies, and it now wished'to trample upon the souls of Irishmen. That faith which is the first bright jewel in the Irish character, and which since its reception at the hands of St. Patrick they had maintained (and do still maintain in all its purity), must be torn from their hearts. For this end all the persecutions and hellish machinations of torture, both of mind and body, which pagan Rome in her hey-day of glory offers no parallel, were to be employed against this stern but generous nation. But Ireland, faithful Ireland, was to prove to the world that neither fire nor sword, nor all the machinations of her enemies, could subdue in her that spirit of faith which is the spirit of the Lord, and by which she hoped to enjoy the true liberty of children of God. She rejected with disdain the bribes and menaces of her enemies, for honor and virtue were dearer to her heart than riches or base distinction. Hence during her maityrdom of three hundred years she displayed the greatness of soul of a Polycarp, and the simplicity of an Agnes.
When the dread storm of the Reformation burst upon the world, Ireland was the only nation of Northern Europe that remained faithful to the Holy See. England, once the land of saints and holy shrines, had yielded to the storm; and its base betrayer, Henry VIII, wished to drag Ireland also into schism and apostasy. But virgin Ireland, alone of the Catholic world, had never been contaminated by the breath of heresy; and hence we may infer with what holy indignation she spurned the wiles and deceit of Henry, to induce her to acknowledge his spiritual supremacy. His daughter Elizabeth, the virgin of the Reformation, followed the same line of policy, and audaciously acknowledged herself head of the Church of Ireland. But Ireland, still true to her faith, would acknowledge no supremacy but that of the See of Rome; and all the queen’s attempts, by flattery and deceit, to sow dissension among the chieftains, only served to knit them more firmly together and to strengthen among them the spirit of religion and patriotism. Her next policy was to exterminate the priests, and thereby cause the churches, sacraments, instructions, and open communion with Rome to disappear. But her efforts were vain; the people were silently gathered, and united together under their faithful shepherds, and with them they feared no death. Such constancy would have won the admiration of a soul less fiendish than Elizabeth’s; but she, at the sight of such noble fidelity, swore in her wrath that she would either exterminate the nation or force it to succumb. Hence arose a series of most bloody wars, and one of the most cruel persecutions recorded in Christian annals. The Irish Catholic chieftains and landlords were purposely goaded into rebellion, that they might be branded as traitors and their lands confiscated for the benefit of avaricious adventurers. Strong with all the piognancy of such injustice, the Irish resisted with all the ardor of their noble valor; but odds could not long contend with overwhelming numbers, and soon many a noble and patriotic Irishman fell a martyr in


a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	. 483
the cause of his country and religion. The instruments of Elizabeth, were men truly fit for their bloody task; and ere long cities were sacked, villages burned, and the helpless and young slaughtered by thousands. As a specimen of their inhuman work, witness the doleful picture, presented by Spenser, of the rich province of Munster. “ Ere one year and a half,” he says, “ the people were brought to such wretchedness, that out of every corner of woods and glens, they came creeping forth upon their hands, for their legs could not bear them; they looked like anatomies of death; they spoke like ghosts crying out of their graves ; and the most populous and plenteous country was suddenly left void of man and beast.” But how shall we depict Elizabeth’s treatment of the clergy ? Under her reign were enacted those terrible decrees which shall ever prove the greatest stain on England’s character in her legislation for Ireland. Enactments which allowed no Catholic Bishop or priest, under pain of death, to remain in the island; which permitted the people to have none but Protestant schoolmasters for their children; which bestowed all their churches on heretical ministers; which closed, one by one, all the buildings used by Catholics for their worship; in fine, enactments which obliged them to practice either Protestantism or no religion at all. Priests were hunted down, seized, dragged to prison, tried, convicted without mercy, and barbarously executed. All the means of evading the law which had been employed by the Christians of the first ages were resorted to in Ireland. The poor priests who succeeded in eluding their enemies were confined for weeks and months in basements and cellars, in recesses made in walls and under roofs of houses, creeping forth only at night to breathe the fresh air, and to administer consolation and hope to their persecuted countrymen. The monks and friars were also hunted as wild beasts, their monasteries plundered, and they themselves cruelly insulted and slaughtered by blood-thirsty soldiers. Where in the history of any nation can we find examples of such inhuman atrocities and deprivation of rights as in the history of Elizabeth’s government of Ireland ? Truly were the words of Erin’s greatest poet now realized:
“ The stranger shall hear thy laments o’er his plain, The sighs of thy harp shall be sent o’er the deep;
Till thy tyrants themselves, as they rivet thy chain, Shall pause o’er the songs of their captives, and weep.”
The Irish prelates, monks and people, by simply taking the oath of apostasy, might have avoided all this injustice and bloodshed, and might have enjoyed with the Protestant settlers many temporal advantages; but the Irish had a conscience: they preferred the ignominy of the Cross of Christ to the proffered honors and dignities of their enemies ; they had implanted deep with their faith the promises of their Divine Lord: “Blessed are they that suffer persecution for justice’ sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.”
The same line of policy was carried on by the successors of Elizabeth. The penal laws, a more odious and wicked code than which was never conceived by pagan legislators, were enforced with increased rigor down to the middle of the eighteenth century, at which period it would have been impossible to render a yoke of slavery heavier and more galling. What shall we say of laws which deprived Catholics one by one of every political, civil and human right; which prevented them from re-entering into the possession of their soil, either by purchase or other
wise ; which ground down, by unheard of extortions and double taxations, the poor tenant of a few acres; which authorized the apostate son to drive his gray-haired father from the paternal roof if he refused to turn Protestant; laws which reduced the whole nation to a state of the most abject poverty; and which ended in making of it one vast poor-house, by the periodical famines that visited its people; laws, in fine, which deprived man of everything of importance worth living for on earth, except their faith, which was, as it were, an inseparable part of Ireland’s existence, and which could be extinct only when her last breath of life had expired ? The sword of oppression and suffering which thus far pierced the heart of Ireland was now driven to its very core by the cruel hand of Cromwell, who in nine months almost crushed out the nation’s last breath. His track was marked by the plundering and burning of towns, by the massacre of men, women and children in cold blood, and by such horrible atrocities that there can scarcely be a parallel offered. His barbarity and thirst for vengeance depopulated large tracts of territory to such an extent that troops marching through them were obliged to carry provisions, as through a desert. His policy was the same as that of Elizabeth, only he was bent on the utter destruction of the race. But all the means which human ingenuity could suggest for the purpose were vain. The Irish were still inflexible; and no power of man could extinguish in them the light of their Faith, which had vanquished tyrants and calmed the fury of lions; which took from the fire its vehemence, and from the sword its edge. That Faith served as wings to the soul of Erin, and raised her above her sufferings. The decree of banishment was enforced by Cromwell, and thousands of Ireland’s children were now sent to distant climes. The greater the injustice and persecution we have endured for our country, the more we are attached to it; hence we may understand how poignant was the grief of those exiles, whose patriotism had been strengthened by the bitter cup of suffering, and sweetened by the grand influence of religion. Like the captive Israelite of old, who wept by the waters of Babylon as he thought of his despoiled and beloved Zion, so the poor exile of Erin as he cast a parting glance over the razed homesteads of her vallies, might well compare her lot with the former, and say:
“Like thee doth our nation lie conquered and broken,
In her halls, in her streets, desolation hath spoken;
And fallen from her head is the once royal crown, And while it is day yet, her sun hath gone down;
Ah! well may we call her, like thee, ‘ The Forsaken,’ Her boldest are vanquished, her proudest are slaves,
And the harps of her minstrels, when gayest, they waken,
Have tones, ’mid their mirth, like the wind o’er the grave.”
Many a chief of noble blood, as he sailed away with his little band, might well cover his face with his shield and weep as he gazed upon the fading vision of his country, which it was his only ambition to defend, and for whose sake he would have willingly poured out his heart’s blood. The Irish exiles now fill the armies of Europe, from Spain to Poland, and by their fidelity and their irresistible valor, which made George II at Fontenoy cry out, “ Cursed be the law that deprived me of such subjects,” immortalized the fame of their country, and decorated with' laurels the links of her chain. Children were torn from the embrace of their parents, and aged fathers and mothers, maybe bending beneath the weight of fourscore years, with faces furrowed by ‘sorrow’s streaming rain,’ whose
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
only desire was to lay their bones with those of their ancestors, were also forced to quit their beloved country, to die of a broken heart in the cold lap of some far-off land.
Yet their enemies could not deprive them of the consolations of religion; that first-born offspring of Heaven still cheered them in adversity and exile, smoothed the rugged path of death, and closed their last faltering accents with benedictions on their country and a prayer for their persecutors. It was well said that the Irishman was born, suffers, and dies; such truly was his life. What heart so callous, so insensible to all that is touching, as not to be wrung with compassion at the sad picture which dread famine presents to his view when he peruses this period of Ireland’s history ? Her bards may have exhausted their most eloquent strains for their “ Erin,” their “ sorrowful Queen,” but her most beautiful dirge is the sad lullaby of the mother over the famishing child. Like Rachel of old, she beheld her children crying for bread, and she had not wherewith to appease them. Hence it was that during these periodical famines thousands of Ireland’s sons and daughters flocked to the shores of America and other countries, to eke out a subsistence for themselves, and to remit to an aged parent the means of supporting life in their native land. Picture to yourselves the poor exiles as they wend their way to the place of embarkation. They can no longer endure the gloomy shadow of their native isle; a gloom like that of Eden’s on the day our first parents left its shades, when every tree, like those of their native isle, hung weeping on the way. Well might the poor exile, to calm the anguish of his heart at the sight of the country which he was about to desert, exclaim:
“Far better in thy weeping hours, to part from thee as Ido now,
When mist is o’er thy blooming bowers, like sorrow’s veil on beauty’s brow.”
Who at that time would have dreamed of her resurrection at any future day ?. Yet she lives. She had but one token of nationality; but this was enough to preserve unquenched the secret fire of true patriotism—it was her religion, which like the fiery pillar of the captive.Israelites cheered the desert of her bondage, and guided her safe to the dawn of liberation. Other lands, no doubt, have had their calamities, but the visitations of woe, though severe, have not been eternal; the hour of probation, or of punishment, has passed away, and the tempest has given place to the serenity of calm and of sunshine. Ireland’s was a long night of unparalleled suffering; but the occasional sunshine of joy that reflected from her purified soul was one which angels alone could contemplate, and is thus charmingly characterized by her dearest poet:
“Weeping or smiling, lovely isle 1 and all the lovelier for thy tears,
For though but rare thy sunny smile, ’tis Heaven’s own glance when it appears.’
She has passed through her long ordeal 'without shrinking, and with one mind, one purpose, animated by one holy feeling,—the love of her religion; and to her everlasting honor be it said, that though her enemies for 300 years drank the blood of her children, yet did she never shed one drop of their blood in the. hallowed name of religion. Even when her enemies raged most violently against her she cried out, with the Divine Saviour: “Forgive them O Lord, for they know not what they do.” -
The only European nation which can in any way compete
with the constancy and never-dying energy of Ireland, is Spain, in its struggle of seven centuries with the Moors. But there is no point of resemblance between them except that of a foreign conquest. She had the long Crusades of Spain, but she had hot the conquest of Granada to thrill her like an inspiration. She was conquered, but instead of being consoled in her desolation by the eloquence and philosophy of the East, she was crowned with the thorns of ignorance and persecution. Moorish genius presented Spain with an encyclopedia of science, while the genius of misrule presented Ireland with an encyclopedia of horrors. Mahometan teachers invited Christian students to their schools, and became their masters and their friends; while the Protestant Christians of Ireland prohibited education under penalty of death. Oh, indeed, posterity will pause with wonder on the melancholy page which shall portray the story of the people amongst whom the policy of men has waged an eternal warfare with the providence of God, blighted into deformity all that was beauteous, and into famine all that was abundant. Who shall tell of these centuries of tears, of that blood of martyrs which sanctifies every inch of her soil, and of the many prayers that went up from devoted hearts, to be received by angels, and carried before the throne of God? These, because of their obscurity, form the most lovely part of Erin’s portrait, and from beneath the ruins of her proud castles, her famous abbeys, her grand temples, remind us of the porticoes and stately columns that shine through the ashes of Pompeii. But the dark cloud that has long hovered over that fair isle, and threatened to shroud her in eternal gloom, has begun to break, and by the glorious emancipation of 1829 the glorious sunshine of liberty reflects its first dawn upon Ireland. Her enemies have in vain exhausted themselves against her; and Erin begins to emerge pure and resplendant from her night of suffering and sorrow; for
“If any shade of earthliness bedimmed her spirit’s wings, Well cleansed she is in sorrow’s ever salutary springs.”
She has conquered her enemies;' for has she not obtained all she ever fought and suffered for—her Faith, and its liberty? Yes, noble and magnanimous Ireland, thy Faith is thy victory, and this victory has made of thee a nation.
Interlinear Translations.
It would be supererogation to write on the importance of accurate acquaintance with ancient learning. The poetry, eloquence, history and philosophy of the Greeks and Romans contain such magnificent floods of light, that no toil can be considered excessive which conducts to a liberal participation in their glories. -To be ignorant of Homer, Demosthenes, Xenophon, and Plato, and of Virgil, Cicero, Livy, and Tacitus, is to be ignorant of writings that have not yet been surpassed—is to be almost external to the possibility of being a distinguished person in any description of literature,—and to be unable to comprehend the merit of all classical contemporary genius, no matter how employed, whether in oratory, or in verse, or in plain narrative and discursive prose. The men of early times are the models of those of all times since, and having been thus far acknowledged to be supreme exemplars, it is more than probable that their supremacy will continue to the end of human study. The poets, speakers, historians, and philosophers of Athens and Rome will never
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
485

be dethroned from guiding the literary intellect of the the world. Eighteen hundred years of universal homage to their wonderful parts, are infallible evidence of the necessity of being thoroughly conversant with them. It - is difficult to mention an illustrious man of anycountry who was not a finished classical scholar. The classics are as necessary to finish intellectual life as nutritious pabulum in infancy to vigorous youth and manhood. Every cultivated man has experienced this.
The Catholic Church has been always a most liberal patron of ancient learning. The most celebrated universities in Europe have their charters from the Holy See. When Protestantism commenced, it assumed a wicked, hostile attitude against Greek and Latin. But the chief part of its venom was levelled at the latter. Being the one language of the one Church—the tongue in which her ceremonies, all sublime, were performed; by which her unity was sustained, no matter how distant from the centre of authority her priests might be; and, above all, a full knowledge of it being absolutely indispensable in all who aspire to the functions of the altar,—the first Tieformers did everything in their power to overthrow it. They were cunning: the more they discouraged Latin the more they hindered young men from entering the Church, and, therefore, the greater barrier they erected against the dissemination of its doctrines. No Latin, no priest; no priest, no teaching.
But this early rancor against a leading instrument in civilization has been greatly lessened. In fact, we have the other extreme now. From hating the classics—especially the Latin—the Protestants have come to loving them to death! What they would not allow us to look at before, they now translate for us interlinearly. This they have done with nearly all the Greek and Latin authors. We would be much more obliged to them if they were not so prematurely generous—nay, their first animosity to those studies was, without comparison, less detrimental to them than their present bustling, silly officiousness. Between the yellow-covered pamphlets entitled “ Greek and Latin without a master in six easy lessons'' and Greek and Latin books with interlinear translations, there is scarcely any difference as far as study is concerned. Both give a fatal thrust to application. The classics are pursued for two purposes: exercise for the faculties, in itself, and acquaintance with the ancient authors. The first is absolutely indispensable to every mind, particularly to every young mind. A subtle Frenchman has said that genius without culture is a sublime fool. The expression is equivalent to this: Unexercised intellect never comes to anything. Activity—severe activity, is as necessary for the mind as it is for the person. Industry—perseverance— application—hard study, these are the chief secrets of distinguished mentality. There is no great mind that has not studied greatly. But the interlinear translations remove all necessity for hard study. They are, consequently, perfectly pestiferous to the mind. And they are quite as bad in the other light. The classical knowledge conveyed by them slips over the faculties as sparkling water does down the back of the goose. Knowledge consists of facts, which are stubborn things, not to be retained unless well comprehended. Thus it is the interlinear translations are most destructive to the mental faculties, and positive hindrances to the possession of real knowledge. Thousands of students have been already ruined by them. We have met dashing, pompous young graduates who used
these facilitators at Yale, Harvard, Princeton, and other distinguished Protestant universities, and bigger dunces -we never knew. They really could not translate a line either in Greek or Latin without stumbling over it in a shameful manner. With the interlinear, they could have got through gloriously. It is really as foolish to hope for practical excellence in a mechanical trade, by skimming the rules over, without ever putting the hands to work, as it is to look for superior classical scholarship through interlinear translations. It is pleasing to be able to state that these dementating, pestiferous books are never admitted into our Catholic colleges. There, the students must study; there, sound scholars are made; there the classics . are properly appreciated; there the great intellects of Greece and Rome are made to let in their brilliant lights. Let the “interlinears” be scouted. None but a lazy, indolent, unambitious, good-for-nothing student, that certainly will never remunerate his parents for their trouble, would make so little of himself as to use one of them. Protestantism never succeeded in doing anything for the increase of civilization. In bringing out the “ interlinears ” it has been perfectly true to itself, always prejudicial to the hu man faculties and to learning.
Scientific Notes.
—Last year there were published in England 3,019 new books and 2,046 new editions, and 481 American publications were imported. As usual, theology leads, with 485 books brought out—fiction, with 446, being second.
—Twenty-seven States now receive from the United States fish commissioner, fish eggs for hatching in their respective waters. About four billion eggs of Qalifornia salmon were distributed by the commissioner last October.
—The Japanese are remarkably kind and gentle in their treatment of animals. Such a thing as stoning a dog, cat, or bird is almost unknown. Should such an event occur, the animal or bird seems rather more astonished than alarmed.
—About thirty States have received their standards setting forth the metric system of weights and measures, which is now being introduced. These standards are to be placed on exhibition in some, public place, accessible for reference.
—The absence of many tall trees in European countries has been the subject of frequent remark by travellers. There are not more than forty kinds growing there that attain a height of forty feet, while we have about one hundred and forty.
—It is noted that the ruby, as well as diamonds and other precious stones, is often associated wish gold, so that where these gems are, gold is almost sure to be present. Nature produces there her riches together; it lies afterward in the province of art to unite and exhibit them as one object.
—Lieut. Weyprecht has published an elaborate paper on the auroral observations taken during the Austrian Arctic Expedition. A careful comparison of the observations of wind and barometrical pressure at and about the time of occurrence of auroral phenomena, failed to show any connection between these displays and storms.
—At a recent lecture at Vienna, Dr. E. Lewy proved that the human skin is completely impenetrable for the chemical contact of mineral waters, and that therefore the explanation of the effects of baths in such waters must be sought exclusively in the domain of physics and not in that of chemistry. This important discovery annuls all common views as to the bathing cures wrought by mineral waters, and shows that from a chemical point of view the action of the most opposite waters must be one and the-same.	'
—Two distinguished French scientists, M. Charles Andre, Director of the Observatory and Professor of Astronomy in
486
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the University of Lyons, and AL Angot, Professor of Physics at the Lycee Fontanes in Paris, have arrived in this country to make observations on the transit of Mercury, May 6. They will proceed to Ogden, Utah, where the centre of the transit will be nearly at local noon. The transit will occupy about seven and a half hours, and the observations are expected to throw more light upon the question of an intra mercurial planet and to furnish data for new estimates as to the distance of the sun.
—A novel discovery, says the New York Sun, has been made in the library of Lyons, in France. It is a map of the entire system of the central plateau of Africa, which has been of late years explored by Grant, Baker, Livingstone and Stanley. The system is traced upon a globe, which was constructed in 1701, and contains; in details, the sources of the Nile and the Congo. The map was executed by order of Father Placide de Saint Amour, principal of the monastery of the Third Order of St. Francis, by Crispi-nian of Toulon, and by the monks Bonaventure and Gregoire, both connected with the above establishment. The report does not mention the names of the explorers. The modern maps place the source of the two rivers slightly to the northward of that just discovered.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A new edition of Bom Gueranger’s “Institutions Liturgiques ” has been gotten out, with a preface by Rev. Dom Guepin.
—The literary fecundity of Germany continues unabated. There were published in 1877,13,925 different works, as against 13,356 in 1876.
, —The Czar has offered a prize for the best hymn celebrating the recent Russian successes, and adapted for the army. The competition is restricted to Russian composers.
—Englishmen are felicitating themselves that their national anthem, “ God Save the King,” has been proved on recently-found evidence to have been written by Ben Jonson.
—Mr. C. Tovey has published “Wit, Wisdom, and Morals Distilled from Bacchus,” which has much curious lore concerning wines and drinking habits, ancient and modern.
—The largest receipts of Mme. Sontag were on the occasion of her benefit in London, when §10,000 were handed her. Before her death she signed a contract for 600,000 f.
—There will be shortly issued from the press a volume of poems from the pen of Lieut. James L. D. Kelley, United States Navy. Many of the poems have appeared in the magazines.
—Rev. Bernard O’Reilly, LL.D., of New York, in a pamphlet entitled “ Leo XUI and his Probable Policy ” answers the two questions, Who is the next Pope ? and What is he likely to do ?
—Mr. S. Gilbert has written a new comedy for Sothern, for which he has been paid in-advance §8,000. The actor expects to produce it as a part of his repertory on his return to America next season. '
—The Woman’s Art Museum Association of Cincinnati will hold a loan-collection exhibition during the month of May. Art-objects of every class will be included in the exhibition, which is expected to be of great interest.
—The Revue Catholique of Louvain of February contains an article on “Le Progres du Catholicisme parmi les peuples d’origine Anglo-Saxonne, depuis l’annee 1857,” in which considerable space is devoted to the Archdiocese of Baltimore.
—The memoirs of the late Prince Metternich will be published in English, French, and German simultaneously. Prince Richard Metternich is now going over the work, and omitting such portions as are likely to prove painful to the feelings of living personages.
—Very Rev. D. Craisson, V. G., of the Archdiocese of Valence, France, has written concerning “Notiones Theologic® circa sextum decalogi praeceptum et usum
matrimonii artis, medic® recenter inventis adaptate, seu de rebus venereis, ad usum confessariorum.”
—Mr. James Gairdner has nearly ready a “History of Richard III,” revindicating the old view of Richard’s character. The book concludes with a chapter on Perkin Warbeck‘, founded in part upon new evidence of the strongest description against the pretentions of that adventurer.
—There is just issued in London a book on the “Poetry of America,” containing selections from one hundred American poets, from 1776 to 1876, with an introductory review of colonial poetry, and some specimens of negro melody, prepared by W. J. Linton. The frontispiece is a portrait of Walt Whitman.
—At the Congress of Librarians held in London last fall, the first revolving bookcase ever exhibited in Europe attracted much attention. M. Trubner, who has been appointed agent for the American Library Association, has now a number of these bookcases included in his first consignment of “ library-supplies.”
—Estes & Laurit will publish the American edition of Cuvier’s work on “The Animal Kingdom,” which has been revised by W. B. Carpenter and other English scientists, and brought down to the present date. The book will contain thirty-six colored illustrations, besides abundant wood-cuts, and will be sold for §6.
—Rev. J. P. Migne has just annotated and edited in 28 volumes “Scriptur® sacr® curcus competes, ex commen-tariis omnium perfectissimis ubique habitis, et a magna parte episcoporum necnon theologorum Europ® Catholic®, universium ad hoc interrogatorum, designates, unice confiatus, plurimis annotantibus presbyteris, ad docendos levitas pascendosve populo alte positis.”
—The award of the judges in the matter of the best choral symphony, for which a prize was offered by the city of Paris, has just been published. The prize wTas divided between M. Theodore Dubois, composer of “Le Paradis Perdu,” and M. Benjamin Godard, composer of “ Le Tasse,” each of whom will receive §1,000. Two works were declared deserving of “mention honorable”—“Le Triumphe de la Paix,” by M. Samuel David, and “Lutece,” Mlle. Augusta Holmes.	.
—It is said that eighty examples have been selected by the Advisory Committee from the paintings presented by American artists for exhibition at the approaching World’s Fair at Paris. Of these the greater part are by New York artists,—only three coming from Philadelphia, and five from Boston. About a dozen of the pictures accepted are water-colors. The contributions from American artists abroad will add about twenty-five paintings to the whole collection, and the greater part of these, according to rumor, will come from Rome.
—Alexandre Dumas, in going through his father’s papers, found a piece in five acts, written by the dead man, and founded upon “ Balsamo.” He showed it to M. Duquesnel, who thought that the subject might have received a greater development. So M. Dumas set to work cutting, extending, and rearranging, but respecting the novel and the piece as much as possible. He says: “To know the author of the piece is therefore not easy, but one means exists for settling the point: the public shall decide. If the play succeed it will be my father’s; if it fails, it is mine.”
—A publication welcome to ecclesiastics and other students of Canon Law has just been begun at Paris. It is a monthly, edited by M. l’Abbe E. Grandclaude, Doctor and Professor of Theology and Canon Law, and author of the Breviarum philosophic scholastic®. Its title is “ Le Canoniste Contemporain, ou la discipline actuelle de 1’Eglise; bulletin mensuel de consultations canoniques et theologiques et de documents emanant du Saint-Siege.” Messrs. Kelly, Piet & Co. are agents for it in this country, and will send it for one year to any address on receipt of three dollars.
—Henry Irving recently delivered an address at Birmingham, Eng., on stage morals. He said: The moral tone of the stage ought not to be assumed either from its necessarily being regulated by the demand for amusement, or from its inevitably exhibiting immorality and villainy as elements in human action. Be it elegant or be it rude,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
487
moral or immoral, intellectual or idiotic, the theatre must always be before all things a place of amusement. He might inundate them with authority to show how consonant the preservation of the moral virtues of the stage was with the ideals of the best men.
—The second annual report of the Trustees of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts gives the number of visitors in 1877 as nearly 160,000. The average on the paying days was sixty-three, and on the free days about 1,500. Lately the Museum has been open free to the public Sunday afternoons, when the attendance has been as large as on the free week-days. The current receipts balance the principal running expenses, which renders the institution selfsupporting. There is need of more room to accommodate the collections, and a subscription has been opened, with the hope of raising §100,000 for the purpose of completing the front wing of the building. Of this sum nearly §90,000 had been secured at the last accounts.
Books and Periodicals.
—The April number of Our Young Folk's Magazine is filled with the usual amount of entertaining reading matter for young people. Terms, §1.60. Address, Box 3090, Boston, Mass.
—We have received from Murphy & Co., the publishers, Baltimore, Md., The Providential Mission of Pius IX, a discourse delivered at the Requiem Mass for our late Holy Father Pope, Pius IX, in the Cathedral of Baltimore, by Rev. John J. Keane assistant pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, Washington, and Bishop-elect of Richmond, Va.
—The term “ Porte,” which is used to denote the administrative Government of the Ottoman Empire, and includes the Sultan, the Grand Vizier, and the great Council of State, had its origin in this way. In the famous institutes established by the warrior Sultan, Mahomet II, the Turkish body politic was described bir the metaphor of a stately tent whose dome rested upon four pillars. “ The viziers formed the first pillar; the judges the second; the treasurers the third; and the secretaries the fourth.” The chief seat of government was figuratively named “The Lofty Gate of the Royal Tent,” in allusion to the practice of earlier times when the Ottoman rulers sat at the tent door to administer justice. The Italian translation of this name was “ La porto Sublima.” This phrase was modified in English to “ The Sublime Porte,” and finally the adjective has been dropped, leaving it simply “ The Porte.”
—The Bolivians give the Panama hat plant the name of Jipagapa, a town in the Republic of Ecuador, which is the principal seat of the hat manufacture—Panama, like Mocha in the case of coffee, and Brussels in that of carpets, being a misnomer. Before the leaf has begun to open —when, in fact, it resembles a closed fan—it is cut off close to the petiole, the base of which forms the centre of the crown of the hat. It is then divided longitudinally into strips with the thumb nail—the thick part, forming the mid-rib, being rejected. The number of shreds into which it is divided, of course, depends on the fineness of the hat into which they are to be manufactured. This split leaf, which is of a greenish-white color, is next dipped into boiling water, then into tepid water, acidulated with lemon-juice,, and lastly it is allowed to soak in cold water for some time, and is afterwards dried in the sun. Each hat is, or ought to be, made of a single leaf. They vary in price, according to fineness, from thirteen pence to as many pounds. The damping ' and drying operations cause the shreds to assume a curled or cylindrical form, which much increase their strength, without injuring their pliancy. Before plaiting, the coarser qualities are damped with water, but the finer sorts are left out in the morning dew, and worked on before sunrise. A hat of the finest quality, made of a single leaf, will take several months to complete; and the plaiting will be so fine as hardly to be perceptible at a short distance. The plant is by no means difficult to cultivate, and is one of the most hardy species of the genus. It grows well in the damp heat of an orchid-house, where the temperature does not fall below sixty degrees.
—Von Billow is said to have submitted to a Glasgow audience a list of eighty-three works, with the request that each person would mark the selections they desired him to play at the closing concert of the series. The Tannhauser overture obtained the most marks, and that of William Tell stood second.
—Sir Godfrey Kneller lessened his own reputation by making it subservient to his fortune—he united the highest vanity with the most consummate negligence of his character. He had the singular honor of painting the portraits of ten sovereigns, and amassed a fortune of £2,000 a year, although he lived magnificently and lost £20,000 in the South Sea scheme. He is said to have given as a reason for preferring portrait painting that painters of history make the dead live, and do not begin to live themselves till they are dead. “I paint the living and they make me live.”
—When Lord Eldon received the Great Seal from George IV, and kissed hands on his appointment, the king conversed with him, and said, when his lordship was about to retire, “ Give my remembrance to Lady Eldon.’ ’ Lord E. acknowledged this condescension, and intimated that he was ignorant of Lady Eldon’s clai m to such a notice. “ Yes, yes,” answered the king, “I know how much I owe to Lady Eldon. I know you would have made yourself a country curate, and that she has made you my Lord Chancellor.”
—In 1742 William Pulteney, who the year before had been one of the most popular patriots of modern times, and distinguished in Parliament by his powerful opposition to the measures of Walpole’s administration, dwindled into the Earl of Bath. Sir Robert Walpole, whom he had driven to the helm, laid his snare for him, and Pulteney fell into it. On the first meeting of these two celebrated men, after their respective falls up stairs, Lord Orford said to Lord Bath with malicious good humor, “ My lord, you and I are now the two most insignificant fellows in Europe.”
—Father de Ravignan, the famous French preacher, when a young man, was once present at a great dinnerparty, and next to him sat a young lady in showy but scanty attire; he wrapped himself up in bis gravity, and remained silent. The unlucky girl ventured a question: “M. de Ravignan, have you no appetitd? ” He did not turn to his neighbor, but bending towards her, he said in a half whisper: “And you, Miss---------,have you no shame?” She asked no more questions, but it was her turn to lose her appetite. Thunder-struck at this single word, after more than twenty years she still heard it in her dreams.
—All the countries in which trees have been remorselessly felled have invariably suffered, owing to the meteorological changes which ensued. About the year 1490, the Guadalquiver Valley supported about seven millions of robust men; but, after the disappearance of the live oak and chestnut groves from the heights above, the population dwindled to one million and quarter of cadaverous people, forced to toil upon sandy and birren land. The effect of forestal destruction may be witnessed also on most of the Continental rivers, for during the last fifty years the Elbe and the Oder have fallen seventeen inches, the Rhine twenty-five, the Vistula twenty-six, and the Danube at Orsova fifty-five inches; all this accompanied by a corresponding diminution of the discharges from springs.
—Dr. John Taylor, the learned critic and philologist, though a close student, was of a temper remarkably social, and possessed talents fitted to adorn and gladden society. An intimate friend and collegian of the doctor informs us if you called on him in college after dinner, you were sure to find him sitting at an old walnut table covered with-books; yet when you began to make apologies for disturbing a person so well employed, he immediately told you to sit down, and called out—“John, John, bring pipe and glasses,” and instantly appeared as cheerful and good-humored as if he had not been at all engaged or interrupted. Suppose, now, you had stayed as long as you would, and been entertained by him most agreeably, you took your leave, and arrived half-way down the stairs, but, recollecting something you had to say to him, you go in again; the bottles and glasses were gone, the books had expanded, themselves so as to reoccupy the whole table, and he was just as much buried in them as when you first came in.
488
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, Mai’Clx 3t>, 1S78.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.	_
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.	•
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
• Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
A National University.
Every nation has its hobby, and our own is no exception to the rule. Our people have for some years back praised to the skies the great and noble advantages of our own glorious Common-school system. The American people are hard to cheat; it is difficult to lead them when no truth exists in the sayings of their leaders. Why, then, this laudation of a system which evidently has not by any means the high merits which its projectors and supporters claim for it? It is because at the base of our system there are two truths which our nation has in common with all Christendom accepted as evident and to be enforced. The one is that there can be no true State, in the civilized sense, excepting when the individual man is wrought up to a knowledge of his duties and obligations; in simpler words, when all are educated. The second truth is, that as education of the individual is necessary to the perfect fulfilment of the civilized—which is the Christian—State, and as many from diverse causes cannot acquire this education, it is the duty of the State to put the means of acquiring it in the hands of all, even the poorest. Few men of reason and sound judgment will deny these two truths. The present system embodies them to the superficial observer most perfectly, and hence by the majority is accepted as true and just. They err in the wrong acceptation of the term education, and in its application to the intellectual training alone of the mind. The system forgets men’s will, and the mind’s great faculty must be allowed to lie dormant, or to be turned into a narrow and false road.
But the great fault, which will be received as a true one by a majority of our countrymen, under which this system labors, is a false conclusion drawn from the second truth. This system, as we see it to-day in our land, is no longer to be rightly called the Common School System. It is running to High Schools, with drawing and music at
tached, giving, or rather pretending to give, a finish to the common education. In a preceding number of our paper we have spoken of the utter injustice and wrong inflicted on the Catholic and the poor man by these so-called High - Schools. We had considered them to be the crowning injustice that might be inflicted on the people. But yesterday we saw with joy that the people of a neighboring city had awakened at least to that wrong, and that its days were now truly numbered. That it was now discarded by our people, and that the unjust acceptation of the word education would soon follow.
But some men will always be the last to follow the false light which they hold to be true. Long after the majority have detected the falsehood, some will blindly cling to it. Therefore we were but little surprised at an article which lately appeared in a magazine on the whole worthy of much praise. We allude to Barnes' Educational Monthly, and an editorial therein on a National University. The writer wishes for it, and to attain it would abolish all sec-, tarian colleges, and commit the care of all our schools to Congress. He wishes “ a universal education established, graded, guided, controlled, and paid for by national authority.” Then can we have a true National University. The first proposition we must accept is that all sectarian colleges be abolished. In fact this can never be done, and the writer, if he but consider, will see the truth of the assertion. In theory it is absurd, as differences of religious and political beliefs alone would prevent the quiet working of such a plan. And we cannot force a man’s conscience in this land, or in any land, with justice and a strict observance of the golden rule. Commit the care of our schools to national authority! Congress can now find no constitutional right to interfere in the management of the schools. It must be granted them by the people, and if there is any opinion now firmly settled in the minds of our people it is that Congress has all the powers necessary to the government of our people. We now try to keep it within the bounds of the Constitution. The confining on it of the right to control education would give it an almost absolute sway—the right to control fully the truths that shall be taught our people. Such a power never can and never will be committed to one body of men, while the people differ in their beliefs. It would be one of the most subtle and absolute forms of centralization, which is the present great evil of our people. We can in justice no more force the manner of education on our people than we can control their religious or political belief.
Lastly, the absolute injustice of a National University is patent. All must pay for its support, and yet few can use it for what it may impart. It would be an injustice to the poor and humbler classes, whether they can send their children to it or not, and it would be a manifest injustice to those who by conscience could not use it. It would be but another form of the unfortunate class legislation with which our country has been burdened. It is true, we said, that all individuals not able should receive support from the nation in the acquirement of knowledge. But all that is needed for such a class is a common education, since it alone can be useful to them. The innovation of High Schools and the proposed one of a National University are excrescences on our system, as is also the secularization of our schools. Cut off our High Schools, give us our common schools, sectarian if you will call them, as they were when founded, and you will have done all the Slate can in justice do for education. Leave higher education where it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
489
belongs, to the sectarian colleges, for they alone can give it to satisfy those who receive.
We believe firmly in the doctrine of State education, but it must be an education for the people, not for a class; for the good of the whole body politic, not for an injury and injustice.
St. Patrick’s Day at the College of St. Laurent, Canada.
Mr Editor:—Assuredly it is but seldom in a life-time that one is permitted to enjoy so much true pleasure, either aesthetic or intellectual, as has been offered your correspondent by the series of pleasant entertainments which have characterized Sr. Patrick’s Day at St. Laurent, in this year of grace 1878. From early morning till late at night the day has, proved to be, for all those who have had the good fortune to participate in it, a succession of the purest and most delightful enjoyments. The very edifying general Communion of the students at an early Mass; the splendid decorations of the altar and statue of St. Patrick; the grand Mass, with its superb singing; the beautiful eulogy of St. Patrick, by Rev. J. C. Carrier, C. S. C.; the sumptuous banquet in the afternoon, with its concluding “feast of reason and flow of soul”; and last, but certainly not least, the very enjoyable entertainment given in the evening, are things fondly to be treasured up and cherished in one’s memory. And to confine these hasty jottings to the last mentioned divertissement, it may not, perhaps, be out of place to premise the fact that your correspondent, Mr. Editor, is in no way connected with the college societies, and had no part in the arrangement or management of the different festivities of the day ; and that, consequently, his criticisms are perfectly unbiased, and—it is hoped—fair and just.
The following is the programme for the evening Entertainment:
Overture........................................Band
Oration.....................................J.	F. King
Music (Selections)..................College	Orchestra
THE EXPIATION. A Drama in Three Acts. Count Flavy...........................Jas.	Harrington
Rinaldi (His Intendant)..................J. Sullivan
Beppo (Captain of Guards)....................J. Stein
Innkeeper..................................C. Hurley
Loredan..........I R-nio-htc 5.............Jno. King
Gerard...........f ™ Knights, j . .Alex. McCoughin
Robert of Lusyvy (Captive)...............Geo. Weber
Ghost, Peasants, Soldiers, etc., etc.
Cornet Solo................................Mr. N. Veau
French Oration—“ Daniel O’Connell ”.. .Benj. Lecavalier
Harp of Tara...................................J- Stein
Violin Solo..............................Victor Dufort
Dance (Clog).............................J. Harrington
FARCE.
“WANTED A MALE COOK?”
Mr. Heat well............................W. O’Donnell
Joshua Slocum...............................C. Hurley
. Teddy Ryan................................J- Cassidy
Franpois....................................J. Hughes
Music............................................Band
Whoever has read the beautiful play “The Expiation” must pronounce it as one of the dramas best suited for male characters for college representations. It is certainly very effective, and—what is still better—it points out a very good moral, i. e., the vindication of outraged innocence, on the one hand, and the condign punishment of treachery, cruelty and murder, on the other. That the drama was exceedingly well rendered by the young amateur actors —all members, we believe, of St. Patrick’s Literary Society, to whom indeed is to be ascribed much the greater part of this day’s festivities and pleasures—is evidenced by the repeated and hearty plaudits which its performance elicited from the large and appreciative audience. The
costumes were of the richest and most elegant kind, and the decorations of the stage very tasteful and appropriate. The acting was so true to nature, so correct in every particular, that the most exacting critic could find very little to animadvert on. Two important things,particularly, are to be noted as reflecting much credit on all the performers: namely, their memory never failed, and no part was rendered feebly; and that is saying very much. The only thing, in our judgment, which left something to be desired was a certain want of animation and vim in some of the characters; but that defect was barely perceptible. However, that imperfection was amply compensated by . the admirable acting of the young gentlemen sustaining the characters of “Count Flavy,” “Loredan,” and “Gerard.” It would be an easy matter to cite a half-dozen scenes which were especially well rendered; we will mention only the death-scene of “ Count Flavy and his Intendant ” as having been extremely well represented; and we all know how difficult it is to enact properly such a scene. The oration,-on “Ireland,” delivered by John F. King, of Fall River, Mass., reflects the highest honor on that young gentleman, both for its literary worth and fine style of delivery. Mr. King is a good writer and a very graceful speaker. The French[oration, “Daniel O’Connell,” was also a fine offort, and does much credit to Mr. Benjamin Lecavalier. As to the “ clog ” dance we can only say this, that it was to us, who know nothing about the terpsichorean art, a wonderful exhibition of calisthenic power and grace. The farce, “ Wanted—A Male Cook,” was, of course, very well rendered, and convulsed the audience with continued laughter. We say of course, for in no species of play do students succeed so well as in pieces of a light and humorous character. But, as is also generally the case, a certain tendency—irrepressible, it appears—on the part of the farceurs slightly to overdo their respective parts, was but too apparent to-night; especially was this the case with “Joshua” and “ Teddy,” the funniest of the funny in the play. The College Orchestra and the Choral Society furnished, with most generous good will and liberality, the music of the day. The general verdict was that they never performed so well before; and they have always performed well.
At the conclusion of the seance, Rev.L. Geoffrion, C. S. C., our beloved and worthy President, made a few very happy remarks in French, and Rev. Jos. C. Carrier, C. S. C., was called upon to address a few words in English, which he did in a very feeling manner; after which the highly delighted audience dispersed amid the stirring strains of the College Band, playing “ St. Patrick’s March.” Thus ended, Mr. Editor, one of the pleasantest days which it has been our good fortune for a long time to enjoy. Gold Pen.
Personal.
—N. J. Mooney, of ’77, is teaching school at Amboy, Ill.
—Mrs. Snee has been visiting her son Harry during the past week.
—Alex. Coquillard, ’45, is one of the wealthiest manufacturers in South Bend.
—Mr. Robert McGrath, of ’74, is keeping books for his father at Lafayette, Ind.
—Mr. and Mrs. Dorion, of Kankakee, III., spent a day with us this past week.
—Mr. F. Navarre and daughter of Monroe, Mich., visited Notre Dame last week.
—Rev. John McManus, of ’62, is pastor of the Catholic Church at Vicksburgh, Miss.
—Douglas Ryan and James E. Knight (Commercial), of ’77, are living with their parents at Dubuque, Iowa.
—Miss Cochrane, of Chicago, and Miss Forestal, of Philadelphia, visited Notre Dame and St. Mary’s this last week.
—Stacy Hibben, of ’64, spent a day with us this last week. He is in the best of health; we hope he will call oftener.
—John C. Birdsell (Commercial), of ’72, is connected with the large establishment in South Bend, manufacturing the Birdsell Clover-Hnller.
—John R. Foster, of ’59, is practicing law in South
490
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Bend. He is also President of the First National Bank, and has an interest in the paper mill at South Bend.
—Anthony O’Reilly, of ’66, paid Notre Dame a flying visit last week. It was almost too short, for many of his friends did not know that he was here until after his departure.
—S. W. Studebaker (Commercial), of ’74, was lately married at Mishawaka. We congratulate him on his new departure. Mr. Studebaker is keeping books for the Studebaker Manufacturing Co., South Bend, the largest wagon and buggy ‘manufacturers in the world.	.
—We see from a late number of the Democratic Dispatch, published at Ukiah, California, that Eber B. Gambee (of ’73) has assumed editorial management of the paper, which is now published under the firm name of Gambee & Hoffman. Mr. Gambee was for a year or more a local itemizer and contributor to The Scholastic, and we trust that the practice obtained in schoolboy days will now be of assistance in enabling him to get up a lively and interesting county newspaper. By the way, would it not be a good idea to re-christen the place of publication? “Ukiah” sounds horribly, and is neither commnplace nor poetic. It is almost as bad as “ South Bend,” the name of which it would seem has become so chronically bent that there is but little hope of straightening it.
—Rev. Father Neyron, now spending his days at Notre Dame, Indiana, is eighty-seven years of age, having done active missionary work in Illinois, Indiana aud Michigan, when most part of those States was unsettled, and the only means of transportation from Chicago to Cairo was by horseback, which trip he states to have frequently made. Father Neyron is an adept in surgery and medicine. He graduated with the degree of M. D. in his native France, when quite young, and in the army of Napoleon served as physician. At the battle of Waterloo he was taken prisoner, and condemned to be shot, but owing to the lack of surgeons to attend the wounded, his life was spared. Soon after this he entered a seminary, and after a course of theology, was ordained for the American missions. He is now resting from his great missionary labors, but is apparently strong aud healthy, with a lease of twenty years more of life. May he have them.—Catholic Columbian.
Local Items.	.
—Monday is All-Fools’ Day. .	'
—To-morrow is Lajtare Sunday.
—There are three weeks more of Lent.
—Bulletins will be made out next Wednesday.
—There are veiy few sick in the infirmary these days.
—The readers in the Junior refectory are engaged with “Fabiola.”
—The Philosophers beat the Invincibles on Wednesday by a score of 33 to 25.
—The Cujus Animam, from Rossini’s Stabat Hater, has been arranged for the Band.
—The boys in the Junior department have had plenty of fun this past week, trapping rats.
—The St. Cecilians say that the canary presented to them lately is a whole orchestra in itself.
—Ou Wednesday, March 20th, the Enterprise Baseball Club beat the Excelsiors by a score of 30 to 8.
—The monthly Conference was held last Wednesday. The papers read were very interesting.
—Is it not about time that the Junior “path” should be improved; in its present condition, walking is very unpleasant
—The arrival of the specimens of natural history from Chicago on the 26th was the occasion of considerable excitement
—That turkey set gobbling by the writers on the staff of The Notre Dame Scholastic is still going.—Catholic Columbian.
—Washington Hall will now be closed until'the 26th of
April, when the Boston Philharmonic Club will give their concert here.
—Bro. Francis Xavier has been engaged for some time past in laying out the grounds lately added to the Community grave-yard.
—To-morrow the Vespers are of the fourth Sunday of Lent page S3 of the Vesperal. In the morning Hissa de Angelis will be sung.
—The delay in getting out the Scholastic last week was occasioned by the disorder in the press-room in putting up our new steam-engine.
—A game of ball took place Monday between the Eu-rekas and the Eclectics; the game was won by the Eclectics by a score of 26 to 23.
—The Philopatrians have no need to spend much time in preparing for their spring Entertainment, as they can prepare with great ease and facility.
—At the Columbian reunion last - Monday night, the pictures of all the members of the Club from its foundation were hung on the walls of Washington Hall.
—We are under obligations to Mr. W. J. Onahan, of Chicago, for a pamphlet copy of his eloquent speech delivered on St. Patrick’s Day at the banquet of the Second Regiment.
—The cold,weather on Sunday, with the snow, made us afraid that old Winter had made up his mind to remain with us a little longer, but the fine weather on the succeeding days eased our mind on that score.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin, who is now in Rome, writes that on the 6th, Bishop Dufal, himself and Rev. Father Ferdinando were admitted to an audience by His Holiness Pope Leo XIII, and were graciously received by him.
—Rev. Father Zahm returns his sincere thanks to the young gentlemen, mostly of the Scientific department, for the assistance so generously extended by them in unloading the large collection of specimens received on the 26tb.
—On Wednesday afternoon the Philosophers’ Baseball Club played a picked nine, and beat them by a score of 16 to 15 in eleven innings. A fine triple play was made by Calkins, Van Valkenburg and Nodler, of the picked nine.
—A body lighter than water caused the loss of 10 lbs. to a heavier body immersed in water. In air the same body weighed 30 lbs. What was its specific gravity? Ye natural philosophers, please give a solution of this example if you can.
—The St. Cecilians have two beautiful canaries in their room; they are admired by all for their beauty and voice. One of them was presented to the Association by its worthy President, the other by Rev. Father J. Ford, to both of which gentlemen the members return thanks. '
—The Arcbconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception held their regular meeting on Sunday evening. After the ten-minutes’ instruction, Master Thomas Nelson gave the “ Life of St. Patrick,” and Master George Sugg gave an account of “ The Divine Office.” The third person appointed was unprepared.
—The 25th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held March 21st, when essays were read by Messrs. F. W. Bloom, G. Sugg and Chas. Walsh, aud declamations were given by C. Hagan, Thos. Nelson and A. Widdecombe. After various reports were made, the meeting adjourned.
, —The third regular meeting of the Sodality of the B. V. M. was held March 27th at the usual place and time. The ten-minutes instruction was given by Rev. Father Walsh. Master H. Deehan read the “ Life of St. Joseph.” Questions were answered by Masters T. O'Hara and Jas. Fenner, one on Confession and the other on the Angelus. Master McCaffrey was elected a member.
—The whole of the Museum and Cabinet of Natural History will be removed to the room on the fourth floor and adjoining the Library, formerly used as a dormitory. Hereafter Phelan Hall will be used simply as a lecture room, and only the philosophical instruments will be kept in it. It was found that the continual increase of specimens, etc., rendered Phelan Hall too small to accommodate all of them.
—The 24th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
491
trian Society was held on the 26th. Declamations were delivered by K. Scanlan, J. McCarthy, F. Lang, A. J. Burger, F. Pleins, R. French, J. Gibbons, J. Hafner, P. Nelson, J. Scanlon and F. Bushey. Mr. H. Newmark made a German speech, and as there are many German students in the Association he was loudly applauded. He was unanimously elected a member.
—We are glad to know that the fine collection of shells, birds’ eggs and nests, etc., collected some years ago by Rev. J. C. Carrier, will now have a fitting place in which to be displayed, as they will occupy the same room with the zoological and mineral specimens. We hope also that the large collection of plants which are now stored away in closets, etc., will be so arranged as to let people see what a valuable collection there is here.
—The 23d meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Friday evening. A vote of thanks was tendered to the Senior Orchestra, and also to Messrs. Schmidt and Regan for ornamenting the hall. On motion put by the Vice-President, a vote of thanks was unanimously tendered to the worthy President of the Association, Prof. J. A. Lyons. The President made a few remarks commending the conduct of the members during the Exhibition.
—The Nameless Baseball Club was organized on the 25th inst., and the following officers were elected: Bro. Theodore, Director; F. C. Luther, President; W. R. Van Valkenberg Treasurer; G. V. Sampson, Secretary; E. Ward, Captain; E. Calkins, Field-Captain. The following are the positions: D. Smith; Catcher; F. O’Brien, Pitcher; G. V. Sampson, S. S.; R. Van Valkenberg, 1st B. ; R. Calkins, 2d B.; E. Ward, 3dB.; L. Marantette, LeftField; F. C. Luther, Centre-Field; P. Vogle, Right-Field.
—Our thanks and those of all connected with? the printing office are due to Mr. Barrett, a student of the Senior Department of the University, for kind assistance to B. Wilfrid when putting up and adjusting our new engine. Mr. Barrett is an excellent machinist, having served an apprenticeship to the business in an establishment in Cleveland whence he bears high testimonials. He is now a resident of South Bend, and is attending class at the College in order to qualify himself for advancement in his profession. We wish him success.
—A joint meeting of the University and Enterprise Baseball Clubs was held Sunday, March 24th. The two nines were dissolved, and Messrs. Maley and Ohlman proceeded to choose two new nines out of the members of the two organizations, from which resulted the following nines.-Enterprise, W. Ohlman, P. J. Hagan, J. 0. Hamilton, V. F. McKinnon, J. P. Quinn, H. W. Nevans, J. Cooney, C. Nodler, F. Williams. University: E. Maley, H. Murphy, J. Deehan, E. McMahon, T. Hale, A. J. Hertzog, A. K. Schmidt, B. Claggett, J. Lambin.
—Last Wednesday an interesting game of baseball was played between the Quicksteps and a picked nine of Juniors. The score was 5 to 19 in favor of the Quicksteps. Among those who played the best on the part of the Minims were the following: J; Seeger, catching out three Juniors behind the bat on fouls; Wm. McDevitt, who held a liner and made a two-base hit; G. Lambin also caught a liner and made a fly-catch; G. Rhodius made a three-base hit and assisted in a double play; J. Boose, W. Rheinhardt and J. Inderrieden excelled in batting. In the Junior nine K. Scanlan held a swift liner in excellent style. Mr. W. A Widdicombe acted as umpire, and M. Williams as scorer.
—An interesting game of baseball took place on the 27lh
Umpire—J. A. Buerger, Sr.
Scorer—Geo. Orr.
Time of game—2 hours, 25 minutes. •
—Last" Monday evening was the fifth anniversary of the founding of the Columbian Literary and Debating Society,
and the members of this year had a little celebration of it to themselves and such of the old members now here who have attached themselves to the Thespian and St. Aloysius Literary Societies. Quite a number of people then . assembled in Washington Hall, where, after the Senior ] Orchestra had discoursed some good music, a literary en-< tertainment was given. Mr. Joseph P. McHugh read a lengthy but well-written and entertaining history of the Society, and Mr. Samuel Spalding delivered an excellent speech. Besides what was 'given by the members of the Society, there were some well-chosen selections read by Profs. Stace and Lyons. Prof. Ivers had consented to give an oration, but was prevented by sickness from attending the gathering.
—Washington Hall, at Notre Dame, was crowded to its utmost last night by the University scholars, teachers, and officials, and by large numbers from the surrounding country, especially from this city, who had gathered there to take part in the celebration of St. Patrick’s Day, the usual commemoration having been postponed from Saturday. The exercises were held under the auspices of the Columbian Society, and commenced with “St. Patrick’s Day,” by the University Band. Mr. M. Bannon then delivered the oration of the evening. It was a fine composition, well written and well delivered. J. McHugh and G. Walters, “ The Black Statues,” “stood justso,” to the undisguised amusement of the audience. They are good minstrels. A declamation by A. Cougar was good, also the guitar solo following, by B. Claggett. J. Fitzgerald addressed the Faculty for the Columbians. The recitation, “Shamus O’Brian,” by P. J. Hagan, was excellent. The “ Country Attorney,” a lively little farce in two acts, was the next feature of the evening’s entertainment. Pierce O’Hara, who successfully introduces Galway practice in the office of his newly-acquired partner in the law, is a true actor. “The Irish Lion” was the next piece, and proved quite amusing. J. Lambin, as Tom Moore, can do the Irish business right up to the handle. As a whole, the entertainment was a Sood one and well worth attending. Very Rev. Father brby made the closing remarks, and the Band played “ Pat Molloy” by way of good-night.—South Bend Register.
—On Monday last, March 25th, a game of baseball took place. The contesting clubs were the Excelsior (Jr.) and University (Sr.) For the second time this season the Excelsiors have given their Senior friends a rub. Eleven innings were played, and the result was a victory for the Juniors by a score of 20 to 19. The game was close throughout, and the last three innings were most exciting. The following is the score:
UNIVERSITY.
r. o.
EXCELSIOR.
R. O.
Bannon, c..............
Byrne, p...............
Cox, s. s..............
Sugg, lb...............
Widdicombe, 2 b.......
Walker, 3b............
Walsh, 1. f............
Hagan, c.f............
Keenan, r. f...........
Total................
20 33
Deehan, c..............
Maley, p...............
McMahon, b. s..........
Murphy, lb.............
Lambin, 2 b............
Hale, 3 b..............
Schmidt, I. f..........
Hertzog, c.f...........
Claggett, r. f.........
Total..............
Umpire—McKinnon.
Scorers—McKone and Scanlan.
—Very Rev. President Corby lately purchased a large number of zoological and mineral specimens for the Museum and Cabinet of Natural Sciences. The value of the collection is seven thousand five hundred dollars, and is well worth the money expended. The minerals are gold and silver quartz, green felspar, opalized wood, wood jasper, chalcedony, agates, flourspar, and many others, to name which would take up too much space in our columns. Among the stuffed specimens of animals are five buffaloes
492
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—from the calf two days old to the largest sized bull; three mountain sheep of various sizes; four antelopes; two black-tailed deer; one white-tailed deer; one black bear; one cinnamon bear; three grizzly bears; three mountainlions; one Bengal tiger; besides wolves, foxes, beavers, and other smaller animals. In the collection are specimens of every variety of birds known in the Rocky Mountain section of our country. The specimens arrived at Notre Dame on Wednesday, and were taken charge of by Rev. J. A. Zahm and Mr. A. M. Kirsch. The specimens will, with the collection of animals, birds, minerals, etc., now in Phelan Hall and the College Library, and the large collection of skeletons purchased last fall, be placed in the large room on the same floor with the chapel. Rev. President Corby, Father Zahm and Mr. Kirsch are anxious to make the Museum, etc., first class as regards worth and utility, and we trust their efforts in this direction will be seconded by every one. Father Zahm has many friends throughout the country who assist him occasionally by forwarding specimens to him. He returns his sincere thanks to them for their kindness, and hopes whenever they visit Notre Dame to show them a large and increasing collection.
—Rev. Mr. M. Kirsch, C. S. C., on Thursday gave the second lecture of his course, the subject chosen being “ Life—What is it ? How does it originate ? ” After rather a lengthy introduction, the lecturer proceeded to develop the subject in a manner most interesting to the audience. He stated that the veil which hides the great mystery of life is yet to be lifted. Its nature and origin have yet to be explained. Scientisis, and especially those of the modern schools, have given many and various definitions of [life; Bichat defines it “the sum total of the functions that resist death ” ; Treriranus, as “ the constant uniformity of phenomena with diversity of external influence ” ; Duges, as “the special activity of organized bodies.” These definitions are negative, which show that a scientist greater than Darwin of Huxley is yet to be born in order to clear the difficulty. Life, however, as the lecturer stated, is not inseparably connected with organization. Many of the lower forms of animal life are destitute of definite parts or organs; and still they manifest all the essential phenomena of life: which goes to prove that life does not depend on organization but organization on life. After having developed this point at length, the lecturer. adverted to the fact that life cannot show its presence unless combined with a physicial basis, called protoplasm. This physicial basis, though capable of forming the bulk' of most complex organizations, is, in itself, not organized; it but furnishes the material out of which life fabricates the various structures found in an organized body. The lecturer then stated that the essential manifestations of life could be summed up into three: contractibility, sensibility, and power of appropriating food. All animals, as we know, feel, move and grow; in vegetable life, however, sensibility is not required. Having shown the different manifestations of life, the lecturer went on to show the relations that exist between vital, chemical, and physical forces. Formerly it was believed that matter was destructible. Modern researches, however, have established the fact that matter is indestructible; that in combustion, for instance, matter is changed from the solid into the liquid or gaseous slate. The correlation of physical and chemical forces is now universally acknowledged. The lecturer now turned to the theory of spontaneous generation, the theory that for a long time agitated the scientific world. The different opinions of the great luminaries in science were given, and it seems that although much was said in favor and against the theory, a permanent decision is not yet given, and we remain still in doubt. The lecture was interesting, well written, and well delivered.
—The author of “Ten Years in Sweden” speaks of the Bombinater igneus, & little frog that has become naturalized in that country, as emitting a note like the ringing of bells. As this sound proceeds from the depth of the water, it appears to come from a long distance, although the frog may be within a few fathoms. Linnaeus spoke of the same reptiles making sounds as if large bells were ringing in the distance.	'
Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.)
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, M. W. Bannon, T. Barrett, P. J. Cooney, J/E. Cooney, A. Cougar, W. L. Dechant, E. Dempsey, E. C. Davenport, P. J. Dougherty, A. Dorion, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, J. Garrett, E. Gramling, A.Ginz, S. Gooley, M. Hogan, A. J. Hert-zog, J. J. Houck, J. S. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, A. W. Johnson, F. B. Keller, J. Kelly, j. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, H. C. Maguire. H. Murphy, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, J. P. McHugh, Ml McCue, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, J. J. McEniry, E. McMahon, H. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, E. W. Robinson, J. Rothert, J. Rice, J. Rabbitt, A. K. Schmidt, T. S. Summers, J. J. Sbugrue, S. T. Spalding, C. L. Stuckey, F. J. Walter, P. Vogle, J. 8. Sheridan.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. '
W. Adams, J. F. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, J. G. Baker, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, A. J. Buerger, J. B. Berteling, C. 0. Burket, F. E. Carroll, C. E. Cavanagh, G. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, J. S. Cassard, G. H. Donnelly, H. A. Gramling, J. L. Healey, G. J/ittenbach, J. B. Ittenbach, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, J. A. Lumley, F. W. Lang, W. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, A. A. Miller, J. T. Matthews, C. A. McKinnon, S. Mosier, H. J. Newmark, L. H. Garceau, P. P. Nelson, F. T. Pleins, S. 8. Perley, K. W. Reynolds, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, J. M. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, W. Stang, F. W. Singler, C. Van Mourick, E. S. Walter, W. A. Widdicombe, F. E. Weis-ert.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, G. Lambin, G. Rhodius, J. A. Seeger, 0. Farrelly, W. McDevitt, C. Crennen, C. McGrath, J. Inderrieden, W. Cool-baugh, A. Hartrath, F. Gaffney, R. Costello, C. Garrick, H. Snee, C. Welty, C. Long, 8. Bushey, C. Bushey, W. Rhein-hardt, E. Herzog, J. Devine, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, F. Farrelly, T. O’Neill, P. Fitzgerald, F. Berry, T. Barrett.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
W. Arnold, J. Cooney, J. Fitzgerald, O. Hamilton, B. Kratzer, J. Kotz, J. McConlogue, C. F. Mueller, M. Regan, J. Rice, J. Smith, G. Walters, F. Walters, P. Horne, A. Dorion, H. W. Nevans, C. K. De Vries, J. Deehan, O. 8. Mitchel], F. Williams, A. J. Burger, F. Clarke, J. Carrer, W. Cannon, H. Canoll, W. Cox, F. Carroll_, J. Gibbons, C. Burket, H. Gramling, J. W. Guthrie, J. Herrick, A. Heitkam, A. Bushey, J. B. Ittenbach, G. Ittenbach, F.- Lang, J. Larkin, J. McNeills, R. Mayer, P. Nelson, G. Orr, S. Mosley E. Pennington, K. Reynolds, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, J. Schoby, F. Singler, J. Scanlan, G. Sugg, C. Brinkman, C. McKinnon, C. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker,‘8. C. Welty, E. 8. Walter, F. Weisert.
List of ExeeHenee.
[The students mentioned tn this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly.—Director op Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—J". B. Ittenbach, G. Ittenbach, A. Newmark, W. Stang; Arithmetic—A. Rietz, W. Rietz, J. Murphy, C. F. O’Brien, C. Van Mourick, H. Gramling, A. Heitkam, J. Herrick, W. Stang; Geography—J. A. Gibbons, W. J. McCarthy, W. B. Walker, J. Hafner, H. Canoil; Grammar—J. A. Gibbons, H. Newmark, G. Donnelly, W. B. Walker, J. Schoby, H. W. Nevans, W. Cannon; Algebra—H.Newmark, F. Hellman, W. Ohlman, G. Walters, R. P. Mayer, O. J. Hamilton, M. H. Bannon, J. Lemarie.
—The Westminster AquJiium, London, is said to possess the largest plate-glass tank in the world, one having been lately erected 150 feet long, 20 feet wide, and proportionately high. It will permit the display of fish of the largest size procurable in British waters.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
CCELI ET TERR^E.
An Original Drama in Three Acts.
Dramatis Persona :
—The annual spiritual Retreat was given to the young ladies by Rev. Father Toohey, C. 8. C. It opened on Wednesday evening and closed on Sunday morning.
—St. Luke’s Studio returns thanks to Very Rev. Father . Corby for fine stereoscopic views of the interior of St. Ber-F* nard’s Church, Watertown, Wisconsin. They are very beautiful, and the church must be one of which Watertown as well as Father Corby may well be proud.
—The statues of .St. Joseph and the Blessed Virgin have been beautifully enthroned. The first was presented with new adornments on the 19th; the second on the beautiful Feast of the Annunciation. Myriads of lamps burn before each, and the pulsation of light produces a very fine effect, each lamp being duplicated by reflection against a polished background.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Misses Clara Silverthorne, Adella Geiser, Amelia Harris, Harriet Buck, Delia Cavenor, Julia Burgert, Matilda Whiteside, Emma Lange, Alice Morgan, Ellen King, Pauline Gaynor, Mary Winston, Imogene Richardson, Mary Way, Melicent White, Genevieve Winston, Ann Wocden, Florence Cregier, Emma Shaw, Matilda Wagner, Anna Cavenor, Blanche Thompson, Laura French, Louise Wood, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Plattenburg, Cecilia Boyce, Ellen Miller, Elizabeth Schwass, Ida Fisk, Eleanor Thomas, Minerva Loeber, Linda Fox, Blanche Parrott, Mary Birch, Ellen Wright, Julia Kingsbury, Lorena Ellis, Sarah Hamilton, Alice Barnes.
Harf—Miss Delia Cavenor.
Theoretical Classes.—The one visited March 23d gave ,	evidence of attention and appreciation of the subject treated.
I	“Excelsior!” is the class-motto. .
ART DEPARTAIENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Class—Misses Pauliue Gaynor, Elizabeth Kirchner, Bay Reynolds, E. Lange. .	•
3d Class—Misses Matilda Whiteside, Delia Cavenor, Adelaide Kirchner.
Promoted to the 3d Class—Misses Maria Plattenburg, Alice Farrell, Sarah Hamilton, Julia Burgert, Harriet Buck.
4th Class—Misses Eleanor Thomas, Julia Butts.
,	Promoted to the 4th Class—Misses Laura French, Ellen Mul-
;	ligan.
I 5th Class—Misses Alary Way, Lola Otto, Amelia Miller, ’	Hope Russell, Catharine Reordan, Lucie Chilton, Florence
Cregier, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Loeber.
;	PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss L. Kirchner.
3d Class—Alisses N. Davis, B. Reynolds, E. Lange, P. Gaynor, AI. Spier.
Coil-painting.
2d Class—Alisses Bay Reynolds, Pauline Gaynor, Emma Lange.	.
11	3d Class—Alisses Ellen Davis, Delia Cavenor.
V	—The celebration of the Feast of the Annunciation, the
festival of our Prefect of Studies, took place on Tuesday, * -March 26th. The following was the programme:
Fackeltanze—No. 3...........................(Aleyerbeer)
Alisses Wilson and Pleins.
TABLEAU. Vocal Trio—“Ave Alaria”.........................(Owens)
Alisses Foote, Cavenor and Kirchner.
Address from the Rosary Society..............Miss Ewing
Chorus—11 Lohengrin”..........................(Wagner)
Vocal Class. German Address.........................Aliss	A. Kirchner
Vocal Trio—“ Let Erin remember,” .....................Misses Kirchner, Brown and Usselman
French Address...............................Aliss Harris
“ The Minstrel Boy ”............................(Pape)
•	Aliss Keenan. •
Address—Senior Classes......................Aliss Burgert
Address—Junior Classes................Miss Ella Mulligan
Song—“Fleurs des Alps”..................(J.	B. Wekerlin)
Aliss Kirchner.
Voluntario................................
Virtus....................................
Vita Coeli................................
Vita Terne................................
Innocence.................................
Vanitas...................................
Curiosa...................................
Pleasure .................................
Beauty....................................
Regio.....................................
Potentia..................................
Noctes...........r........................
Ori.......................................
Ignis.....................................
Justitia..................................
Gratia....................................
Happiness.................................
Lumen.....................................
Prologue .................................
‘‘ Ruins of Athens ’’.....................
Aliss Addie Geiser.
Act 1st—Scenes 1st and 2d.
Alias Mary Way . “ McGrath
«
cc
Cl
A. Kirchner Thompson Gordon A. Cavenor Winston O’Connor Gaynor Ewing Luce ■ Davis Henneberry Birch Cooney O’Neill
“M. O’Connor “ N. Davis “ Spier . .(Beethoven)
Friihlingsnacht
Miss Pleins.
(Schumann—Liszt)
Tableau—“Joy in Heaven.” Vocal Trio—“ Barcarolle ”...................(Campana)
Alisses Foote, Kirchner and Cavenor. Act 2d. Romanza—“ Addio terra nativa”—L’Africainc..(Meyerbeer)
Miss Cavenor.
Act 3d.
Waltz........................................(Chopin)
.	Aliss Wilson.	,
Chorus—“Boatman’sEvening Song”..............Vocal Class
Overture......................................(Weber)
Alisses Spier and O’Neill.
Roll of Honor.	•
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Alisses Amelia Harris, Pauline Gaynor, Harriet Reynolds.
1st Senior Class—Misses Cecilia Boyce, Emma Lange, Ida Fisk.
2d Senior Class—Alisses Ellen Davis, Mary Way, Ellen McGrath, Blanche Thompson, Ellen King, Anna Woodin, Sarah Hamilton, Mary Birch. '
3d Senior Class—Alisses Julia Burgert, Emma Shaw, Mary Wagner, Alaria Plattenburg, Florence Cregier, Lola Otto, Genevieve Winston, Anna Cavenor, Anna Thomas.
1st Prep. Class—Alisses Blanche Parrott, Minerva Loeber.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Ellen Thomas, Julia Barnes, Matilda White, Imogene Richardson, Ada Peak, Alice Barnes.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Alisses Alary Alulligan, Angela Ewing, Adelaide Kirchner, Frances Kingfield, Lucy Chilton, Annie McGrath, Adella Geiser, Ellen AIulIinan, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Lambin, Ellen Hackett, L. Fox, Mary Hake, Agnes AIcKinhis, AI. Lyons, Charlotte Van Namee, AI. McFadden, M. Cox, A. King, J. Butts, E. Wooten, N. Lloyd. AI. Ivers, B. and T. Haney, 100 par excellence. Misses Lorena Ellis, Lulu Wood, J. Sunderland, F. Sunderland, L. French.	'
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
494
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged "by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, comer Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m.	3	45 p.m
Peru accommodation.................. 5	00	p.m.	9	35	a.m
Night Express.......................10	00	p.m.	6	50	a.m
A M. SMITH,	H., RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
JAMES BONNEY THE PHOTOG-BAPHER, Comer Michigan and. Washington Sts., SOUTH ZHZEUSTZD,
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA E. B. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No. 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,...	...Leave	11.45 P.M.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 AM.
Rochester,....	aaa.a.aa	12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58	7.45 “
Alliance,		« a * * — a A*	3.10 A.M.	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,			4.46 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,....		7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,		. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,		... Leave	7.50 am.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	a - - - - - - _ -
Forest,			9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,			10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,....		1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,....		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago		..Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.					
		No. 4,	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6,	No 8,
		Night Ex.		Pac. Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,		.. Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	a a a a a a	a
Plymouth,....		2.46 am.	11.25 “	9.00 “	a aaaa a a a a
Ft. Wayne,....		6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,			8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest,		.......	10.10 11	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,		..Arrive	1L45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline,		...Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,			2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		......a.	4.05 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	1L20 “
Rochester,....	a a * a a a •	.6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,....	..Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palacb Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
FjE. MTEBS, G. P. & T. A.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, 1877.
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		4.35 P. 31 7.10 “ 8.10 “	12.25 P. M. 2.42- “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. 31. 9.52 “ 10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte	 “ Michigan City		8.25 P. 31. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. 31.		11.10 A. 31. . 1.14 P. 31. 2.45 “ 3.30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.,Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis.... “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		5.30 P. 31. 2.55 “ 1.50 “	4.10 A. 31. 1.50 “ 12.38 “	9.10 A. sr. 6.33	“ 5.37	“
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte	 “ Michigan City ..	- 1.27 P. 31. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. 31.	12.33 A. 31. 10.25 P. 31. 8.50 “ 8.05 “	
F. P. Wade,
G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
A NEW SYSTEM OF German Penmanship.
I
I
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FR. PTTSTET,
52 Barclay Street, HEW YORK, and 201 Vine Street, CiHCINM.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Frice, 85 cents per Dozen.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and .fitted up withall the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the -Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds.' In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral’advance-ment of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young chaises.	.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
495
Attornevs at Law.
BROAVX «fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER <fc XITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
r I UlOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at 1. Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING <fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and r	Randolph Bts., Chicago, Ill.
F	TOHN jf. McHUGH (of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office
tj 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
f	TAODGE <fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
JL7 Wm W., both of’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
M’ cBRIDE <& MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLIAM J. CL ARKE (of’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A.. O’REILLY—of ’69 —Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11. 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 28 “	11 10 “	6 20 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		10 45 “	12 15 “	8 14 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 40 p.m	10 00 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 45 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 45 “	6 30 “		3 35 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 am		9 50 p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.u	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	4 00 a.m	2 53 “	2 25 a m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	4 24 “	12 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	7 50 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 45 “
INiles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 ••	6 38 “ Ar. Niles—	9 25 “ 715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers <& Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [Of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and
. County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A It'I'll Ij B J. STACE [of ’61], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian.pub ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A. VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.5t>.	-
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kite, Clerk.
THE BON I> HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Comer of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St.. Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
|	Book Binders.
। -------■— ----------------
EDWARD I*. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
0 ts CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic At.manac for 1878. Address
J. A. Dross,
’	Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the speci es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, ardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.	.	•
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,060 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17 th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, thename, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	ion inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments	 Students’ size, larger		$ 50 1 50	51 3	$1 50 6	51 5 10	5 2 10 25	5 3 25 50
High School or Acad, size,2*4x3 *4 in. shelf specimens College size, 3*4x6 in., shelf specimens					25 500|	50 100	1 OO 3 CO
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sde-ences and of the American Museum of Natural
Bistory, Central Park, New York.
I
496
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 pm; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 240 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05 p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 pm, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago, 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genu Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gcn’l Supt.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be bad on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and hound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS:
Introduction, ' Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Groundhoggery, Calendars, The Months—description, etc.,
January, '
February,
March,
April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December, The Two Rules,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women,
Pio Nono,
A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q, In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer, The Duty of our Young
Men, ‘
Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ?
Sonnet,
Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau the Tribuuc, Maris Stella, Aerolites.
Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
Address,	J. A. LIONS,
Notre T>ame, Ind.;
or, The Scholastic Printing- Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. SHICKEY.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo', West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7 30 am	9	00 pm
Peoria Day Express......................3 40 pm	9	00 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am	9	00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm	9	00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm	12	30 pm
Joliet Accommodation....................9 20 am	5	00 pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Chaklton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
C. & N.-W. LINES..
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska,Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
fs the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its	■
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	'
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
TYPE FOUNDERS,
CHICAGO,
Have the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from best quality of metal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse & Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.	•	jan 5-3m