Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 1, 1880.
Number 34.
[For the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.”]
A Dost Melody.
BY E. J. M.
I heard a melody pure and sweet
As heavenly choirs sing;
And my soul was thrilled, like the chords of a harp Swept by an angel’s wing.
The shadows of dreamland faded,—
I awoke with longings wild;
The illusion lovingly lingered
Like a kiss from the lips of a child.
I heard but the distant echoes,
Yet the echoes were vague and sweet, As the perfumes which clung to the Master, When Magdalene knelt at His feet.
And then a murmuring whisper
In the heat of the noon-tide glare, Like the bubbling spring in the desert, Which answered Hagar’s prayer.
But amidst the world’s commotion
I lost the sad refrain,—
And the flowing rush of the melody
I shall never hear again.
Youth to the Poet.
Strange spell of youth for age, and age for youth, Affinity between two forms of truth !—
As if the dawn and sunshine watched each other, • Like and unlike as children of one mother And wondering at the likeness. Ardent eyes Of young men see the prophecy arise Of what their lives shall be when all is told;
And in the far-off glow of years called old Those other eyes look back to catch a trace Of what was once their own unshadowed grace, But here in our dear poet both are blended— Ripe age begun, yet golden youth not ended— Even as his song the willowy scent of spring Doth blend with autumn’s tender mellowing, And mixes praise with satire, tears with fun, In strains that ever delicately run, So musical and wise, page after page, The sage a minstrel grows, the bard a sage. The dew of youth so fills his late-sprung flowers, And day-break glory haunts his evening’s hours. Ah, such a life prefigures its own moral;
That first “ Last Leaf” is now a leaf of laurel Which—smiling not, but trembling at the touch— Youth gives back to the hand that gave so much.
—SfribnaPt Monthly.
One of Ireland’s Musicians.
The talents and abilities of Ireland’s sons are now pretty well known, and, perhaps, in no country on the face of the earth have there sprung up, under similar disadvantages, so many illustrious as authors, poets, generals, historians, and musicians. This is, indeed, a strong proof that there exist among this historic people, men, who, if they had but the favorable opportunities in their youth which the children of other countries have, would surpass those of any nation, and shed lustre on the land that bore them. But Ireland has been sorely punished, whether she deserved it or not; and the wonder is, that she keeps her character as a nation—keeps herself as a distinct people, notwithstanding the many strong efforts made to rob her of this distinguishing and ever dear mark.
Not to speak of Ireland’s last and world-renowned bard— . O’Carolan,—where is the nation that would not feel proud of such names as Alingham, Callanan, Thomas Davis, Aubrey de Vere, Samuel Ferguson, Furlong, Goldsmith, Denis Florence McCarthy, Thomas D’Arcy McGee, Father Prout, Clarence Mangan, and last, but not least, “ The poet of all circles ”—Tom Moore ? Even in our own day we can point to a galaxy of men and women renowned in every walk in life. They are well known, and therefore I consider it superfluous to mention their names. ’ The truth is the Irishman is everywhere; and wherever he is, he is able to take his part, if not at one thing at another, and it is, in my estimation, difficult for him to apply himself to anything in which he does not admirably succeed; hence the progress which the subject of this little essay, Michael Kelly, made in the art of music, and that, too, under circumstances not the most favorable. In his youth he had but few incentives to stimulate his aspirations after fame,— for being the son of an humble wine merchant of Dublin, it is but reasonable to suppose that he was not destined by his parents at his birth to surpass a Mozart or a Liszt; yet he did make progress in his studies, and it soon became apparent that he was endowed with a natural genius and a love of music. His good father putting no obstacle in the way of his son’s advancement, placed him under the direc-tion of one Rauzzini, who happened at the time to be staying in Dublin. We may say, that this keen-sighted Italian was not long in finding out of what material our young friend was made, especially when asked by the father of the boy to do so, in order not to have him lose his time at something for which he might have no calling. The report of Rauzzini being favorable, young Kelly was allowed to pur> sue his studies, and so hard did he work that at the age of sixteen he was considered able to take his stand in the field of life, and earn his living by the practice of an art at which so many miserably failed. At this time Kelly set
528
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
out for Naples, in Sicily, where he soon had the good fortune of becoming acquainted with a gentleman at court, who became to him both a patron and a steadfast friend.
All know, or at least should know, that in letters and arts success to any extent, depends on the smiles and favor of this world’s high and noble; hence it but too often happens that for want of some word of encouragement young men are deterred from applying themselves to those studies that would in after life render them notorious in the world’s history. How many again on account of a harsh criticism, or something equivalent, have been led to forsake that in which they might have acquired imperishable fame? Miss Maria Edge worth would have undoubtedly laid aside all attempts at literary composition, were she not advised and guided by a learned and loving parent, and so on with numbers of others; hence the reason why the successful career of young composers is so easily impeded or blighted in the outset, and why, for the most part a false modesty or bashfulness besets them on coming to the front. But there is a way for doing everything, and the best way should be always followed. No one who enters on any profession or calling but must make up his mind to receive criticism in some way or another; and the higher the calling is, the severer the criticism is sure to be—unless, of course, we speak of those favored few, who pass through life’s stormy seas without ever experiencing anything of the storm; but the exception proves only the rule. It is indeed noticeable, and worthy of close observation, the many ways adapted to make a start in life. I remember reading not long ago an account of the means to which a person had recourse, in order to avoid something which he was otherwise sure to receive —a harsh criticism. This individual, who afterwards became a dramatic writer of considerable note, published his first play, “ The School for Wives,” under the name of a Mr. Addington, an English nobleman, and not until it received a favorable criticism did he come forward and proclaim himself the author; and precisely this happens every day. What is the cause of the many non de plumes that appear on the pages of music and literature ? Is it because the composers or writers who thus figure are so humble and modest that they refrain from giving their real names to the public? We hardly think so. Humility is a great virtue, but it does not seem to exactly suit in these particular cases. But, as I said before, there may be sometimes a very good reason for concealing a name; and many have only succeeded in starting in life and establishing for themselves a reputation by so doing.
But to the subject proper of my essay. Michael Kelly having spent some time at Naples resolved to visit the Eternal City; andon his way thither had the good fortune to be introduced to the British Consul at Leghorn, as well as tn Signor and Signora Storace, and several rich merchants of musical and literary taste. At the earnest request of these distinguished personages Kelly gave concerts, which at once established his reputation as a musician of a high order of merit But one good thing seldom comes without another, and thus it was that while young Kelly was making himself a name, he was at the same time increasing his pecuniary condition to no little extent
Florence was next the scene of the labors of our young artist; here he won a renowned celebrity. His “Il Frangese in Italia” was well received; so well, in fact, that he surpassed the expectations of his most ardent admirers,
After remaining in Florence for some time, young Kelly received an invitation to return to his native land with an offer of an engagement for five years as first singer in Drury Lane Theatre. His father, however, prevented this engagement on account of his tender age, and even threatened legal proceedings against Mr. Lindley, the joint proprietor, if he should employ his son; hence the engagement was abruptly broken off, and, in place of returning to the United Kingdom, our young friend travelled through the greater part of Italy and took the part of first tenor in several of the leading Italian theatres. Thence he proceeded to Germany with one of the original singers in the “Nazze di Figaro” of Mozart, and it is needless to say that everywhere he went he received a most brilliant reception. In Vienna, where music is cultivated to a high degree, Michael Kelly made the acquaintance of the renowned Mozart. Nor was this all; he had the good fortune to sing and play before the Emperor Joseph II and his brother Maximilian, who, together with the other nobility present, complimented him upon his success. But, as we alluded to before, the favor of the great ones of this earth is not much less than a passport to distinction and fame; hence it was that at Vienna he was greeted with immense audiences; nor must we conclude that the people were attracted thither blindly, for, if we consider that in this city the science of music, both vocal and instrumental, was at this time thoroughly understood, more so, perhaps, on account of a kind of rivalry that was then waging between this school and those of Germany and Italy, and to which we owe, in a certain sense, the great and masterly productions of Hayden and Mozart, it may be easily inferred that Kelly well merited what he received. But let this pass. The fact is, our young artist kept his own, no matter where he went; and if he did not always receive the smiles of princes and kings, he was always a popular singer and player, and attached himself to men of solid worth and much influence. With Hayden, Kelly spent three days at Eisenstadt, and his introduction to Mozart he considered the greatest event in his whole career. Nor need we wonder at this. The name of Mozart is surely great; he was an original man in every sense of the term, and few men on the pages of the world’s history can be fittingly compared with him.
As to the works of Kelly: A great favorite wherever it was sung was a melody to Metastasio Canzonetta; “ Grazia agV ingani tuori ” was very simple, but it so pleased Mozart that he highly complimented the author, and composed some beautiful variations to it. But golden days do not always last; and in sunny Austria, word was received by Mr. Kelly that his mother’s health was very poor, and that he could do no better than come and see her before she died. Thus he was induced to return to Ireland. He obtained permission from the Emperor for an absence of twelve months, together with the continuation of his salary, and the acceptance of any engagement in London that he might consider more advantageous. With such favorable prospects he set out for Ireland, never to return to the continent, for after visiting his parents he made London bis home; engaged himself in the Drury Lane Theatre as first tenor and director of the musical performances,—a situation he kept until his final retirement from the stage. For the Drury Lane Theatre he composed several pieces, the most notable being “Friend in Need,” “Castle Spectre,” “Adelmorn the Outlaw,” “The Wood Demon,” “Venoni and Adelgitha,” and others.
31V
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
On one occasion, George IV, then Prince of Wales, asked him to compose a simple ballad. He complied, and his friend, Mr. Monk Lewis, having prepared the words of a song, he set them to music, and the ballad proved so beautiful that it soon became very popular.
The success of the “Castle Spectre” gave rise to the drama of “ Blue Beard,” which had a long run on the London stage.
In the fall of 1808, Mr. Kelly accompanied Madame Catalan! to Dublin, where an immense audience greeted his presence. He also played in Cork and Limerick, after which he returned to London,—only to be time enough to witness the total destruction of Drury Lane by fire. In this fire most of the compositions of our musician were burned, and the labors of almost a whole lifetime gone forever—consumed by the fiery fiend in a few hours. Mr. Kelly did not, however, give way to despondency for the loss of the pets of his musical fancy, but soon set to work and composed, or set to music, a beautiful piece, entitled “The Jubilee,” and two others called the “Peasant Boy” and “The Royal Oak,” which latter was performed at the Haymarket Theatre, and was well received.
After having fulfilled his engagement at the Drury Lane Mr. Kelly came to Dublin, and on the 5th of September, 1811, made his last appearance in public; and thus, in the very city where he commenced as a boy, he ended a most brilliant career. Having retired from the stage, his health sank lower and lower every day, until finally on the 15th of October, 1826, he gave up his noble soul into the hands of its Maker, and quitted forever the joys and pleasure that this world affords, to take his stand before Him who deals with every man according to his deserts.
J. P.
A Word on the Care of Orchards.
Aside from a neat, comfortable farm residence, and the requisite number of well adapted out-buildings, there is nothing which contributes so largely to the beauty of the homestead and the comforts and luxury of the household as a good orchard. And this beauty and luxury are increased in proportion to the attention the orchard receives; for, as there can be no acre of farm product which will yield as remunerative a crop as an acre of bearing fruit-trees “well tended to,” neither can there be any thing more unprofitable on a farm than a semi-barren lot of fruit-trees, as they consume the sap and exhaust the strength of the land without giving any remuneration.
The farmer who imagines that he has nothing to do but purchase a large number of fruit-trees, and plant them out, regardless of subsequent care, in order to have in a few years plenty of apples and cider, is as likely to be disappointed as the fatalist who plows his land and shakes on the seed and leaves the rest to Providence. Nothing should receive more careful attention on the farm than a good, well-assorted orchard, as it no doubt tends in a great measure to the promotion of health, wealth, and happiness. Doctors assure us that there is nothing more healthy, or nothing that contributes more to the perpetuity of good health, than plenty of good ripe fruit; and, apart from this, the fruit-grower can show by figures that there is no produce in which there is so much money as in a well assorted orchard, properly and skilfully attended to. But it is certain that an orchard must be attended to, otherwise nothing may be expected, from it, save what is of very
little good to man or beast. There is not to be found one who does not feel pleased and happy at the presence of a dish of delicious fruits. But the fruit-tree, like everything else that lives and grows, has its maladies, and also its antidotes; and hence, in order to realize all that is hoped for from it, much attention must be given to it, especially in the first years of its existence, as it is during these years that all branches not taking a proper position to form a perfect head at maturity are to be removed, and the whole force of sap sent to invigorate the permanent limbs, otherwise the tree must of necessity suffer in the future, either from heavy pruning, or too much “ head,” which is sure to impair the crop in every form. Besides, too, when branches are removed while small and young the wound soon heals up, so that no wounds will be visible, nor will there be any necessity for sawing off large limbs from the head or trunk when the tree arrives at maturity.
The next object needing close attention in young trees is what may be called the incidentals of growth. Foremost among those are the crotch scald, produced by rancid sap, the canker-wart, and black heart. But the first of these seems to be the promoter of the latter two, and its origin is in this way: it often happens that if there is warm, favorable fall weather trees are apt, especially on dry warm soil, to start a “fall growth ” and remain green and full of sap until late in the season; then, should a sudden snap of severe frost set in, the sap gets frozen, and becomes clotted in the pores of the bark, so that the portion of the tree thus affected shows a smoky and blackish appearance the next spring, and unless this is removed by a good washing of very strong soft-soap suds, well charged with lye, the branches soon become black-hearted, by being inert in circulation of new sap, and soon begin to decay. Washing is also very beneficial for other purposes, as by doing it in proper season the fruit insects—which deposit their larva in the crevices of the bark—and crotches are all killed, and the young fruit saved from being ant-stung, or moth-eaten.
A farmer in passing through his orchard may observe many of his trees looking sickly, and not throwing out a full healthy growth of new wood, and, by examining in the main forks or crotches of the limbs, and especially where they shoot off from the body, he will find a decayed reddish spot in the bark, which proves on examination to be lifeless, hard, and of a reddish hue. He may also find a portion of the wood inside the bark corroding; this is the crotch scald, and canker-wart. Again, by picking around the point of the angle in the fork or crotch of the tree, he will soon discover a hard knotty substance about the size of a small peach pitt, the analysis of which would be a puzzle to the scientist. Hence an annual examination of each and every tree in the orchard becomes something to those that would wish to raise good fruit. Some kind of trees are, however, more liable to disease than others. But, notwithstanding this, care must be given to all; the clotted sap which is sometimes to be found lodged in the crotches of the limbs, more especially thosehaving an acute angle or a sharp V shape, and also around the base of many of the limbs, should be invariably scraped out, as by so doing vigor and growth will be given to the tree, and diseases kept away. Again, the ground at the root of the trees should be kept clean, hoed, etc., as this is in perfect keeping with the laws of growth; but as to pruning, no person should, or ought to be allowed into an orchard for the
530	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
purpose of performing this task, without first knowing the varieties of trees and be somewhat familiar with their habits of growth and customs of bearing, as some trees cany their fruit on the directly opposite end of the limbs from that of others. Take, for instance, the spy, the baldwin, the greening and the russet—no two of those carry their fruit alike. On the baldwin will be found the entire crop on the extreme ends of the main top branches. On the spy, the great bulk of the crop grows upon biennial shoots ou the lower extremities of the limbs, and comparatively few on top. On the greening, the great bulk of the crop hangs on the side limbs, and makes the tree umbrellashaped while bearing. Again, the russet bears part of its Crop on top outside, but as much more grows on short sharp fruit-spurs projecting from the sides of the limbs pretty well down the body of the tree. Hence it may be seen that hot every wood-cbbpper can go up into a tree and trim that tree in a proper manner. The peculiar habits of tile growth of the limbs require that they be pruned with the special intention of directing the young shoots, instead of having them veering to all the points of the compass,— as the natural habit of a good many kinds of fruit-trees will do if not well watched.	T. D.
Captain Nathan Hale.
Captain Nathan Hale, the subject of this little essay whs bom in the year 1755, near Coventry, Conn. Little is known of his early life, but from the record which he left in the army of his irreproachable character, I think I may safely say that it was what it ought to be. Of all the heroes and martyrs of the American Revolution, none shine more conspicuously in the annals of our country, than Hale the “Martyr Spy.”
At the time of Captain Hale’s capture by the English he had just completed his 21st year, and had already received his appointment as Captain in the “ Colonial Army.’’ Brave and skilful, he began his career as an officer full of high hopes, and the best of intentions, ready to sacrifice every selfish, every endearing sentiment, for the love he bore his country—a country for which he at any time was willing to lay down his life. Hale was undoubtedly a heroic young man, and on this account was selected by Washington to watch thfe manoeuvres of the English, and even to go within their camp,—a feat which Washington calculated would, if successftd, save his little starring and fast-dissolving fbfces from total destruction.
As a school-teacher, Hale accomplished his object, re-mainihg two weeks in the enemies’ lines. He was betrayed, however, by a Tory relative, and captured while returning to the American lines. He was stripped and searched, and, da there were found concealed between the soles of his shOCs—after the manner of Major Andre—detailed plans and memofandas, our young officer, pinioned and guarded, wafi taken before Lord Howe, who, it is believed, retired to a green-house, just back of his mansion, and there, after hiving been shown the documents found in Hale’s shoes, listened to the charges made against him.
Hale denied nothing. He admitted that he was a Captain in Washington’s army; that he had been acting the part Of a spy; that he had been successful in his search for information; regretted that by his capture he was unable to serve his country; and then fearlessly and calmly awaited i his sentence. He did not even demand a court-martial. In !
a few minutes he heard his sentence read aloud, as follows; “William Cunningham, Provost Marshal of the Royal Army of New York, is directed to receive into his custody the body of Nathan Hale, a Captain in the Rebel army, convicted as a spy, and to see him hanged by the neck until he is dead to-morrow morning at daybreak.” Hale was at once taken in charge by the brutal Cunningham, who was afterwards hanged, after confessing that he had been accessory to several hundred murders. Cunningham asked Hale, as he put him into his cell, for his name, age, size, and rank, then read the death-warrant to him, and was about to withdraw when Hale asked that his arms might be unpinioned, and that he might have writing materials and a light. This simple request Cunningham refused in a most dogged manner. The prisoner finally asked that he might have a Bible, which was also denied him. Subsequently a young officer of Hale’s guard interceded for him, and his arms were freed, and a light, pen, ink and paper, given to him. The intrepid Captain spent most of the night in letter-writing, one of which was to his mother, another to his sister, and a third to one of his most intimate friends.
When Cunningham reached Hale’s cell in the morning, he found the Federal Captain and spy ready. It was just daybreak. Hale handed the Provost Martial the letters which he had written, and asked, as a dying favor, that they be kept until they could be delivered. Cunningham read them insolently in Hale’s presence, and then tore them up before his face. When asked afterwards why he did this, he said: “I did not want the rebels to know that they had a man who could die with such firmness.” Then he ordered Hale to make himself ready for the scaffold. His arms were pinioned, a coarse white gown, trimmed with black, was placed over his body, and a white cap put on his head. A rough board coffin was carried by attendants in front of him, a guard of soldiers was arcund him, and the negro executioner, Richmond, brought up the rear with the ladder and noose. Thus attended, Hale walked to the gallows. But the worst part of the cruelty did not come yet. While our brave young soldier was standing on the rounds of the ladder, with the noose about his neck, Cunningham addressed him, and scoffingiy asked him to speak out his dying confession.. To this Hale made no reply, but cast at him a look of utter contempt, and then, turning to the others, said quietly, but with an impressiveness that silenced the jibes of those who were there to joke and ridicule: “I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country.” “Swing the rebel off!” shouted the maddened Cunningham. In half an hour the body of the martyr was buried, probably, beneath the gallows upon which he died. His grave was of course unmarked, and when the Revolutionary army re-entered New York there was no one who could tell where Hale was buried. But the story of his heroic death, and his memorable words under the shadow of the gallows, speedily became known to the entire army. It inspired the men like a victory, and in after years, until a

x
J

%

g
If

J?
5 "
comparatively recent date. Hale’s only monument has been the remembrance of him as the “ Martyr Spy of the Revo- : |
lution,” and of his dying words.
H. S.
—“ What do you mean to do with K------------?” said a friend , of Theodore Hook, alluding to a man who had grossly vili- -fied him. “Do with him! ’’ replied Hook; “ why I mean ■. to let him alone most severely.”
Wl
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	531

Art, Music and Literature.
—Mr- Harry Benson contemplates a trip to Europe.
—Mr. Isaac Sallis will give open air concerts at Halifax during the summer.
—A history of Ireland is being prepared by Mr. Michael McAlister, ot Columbus, Ohio.
. —Mr. Arthur Sullivan says that Manager Stetson’s copyrighting of “ The Pirates ” was “ a bit of bogus.”
—Mme. Marie Basta, of the Stadt Theatre, Cologne, is engaged from Aug. 1, at the Theatre Royal, Munich.
—Willie Edouin’s new musical absurdity will be called “ Dreams, or Fun in a Photograph Gallery.” It will be a piece of the “Hobbies ” and “Brook ” style.
—Another infant phenomenon, in the shape of Cesare Galeotti, an eight-year-old pianist, has cropped up in Italy. The Roman papers style him II piccolo Liszt.
—John O’Kane Murray, author of “ Popular History of the United States,” has lately received the degree of Doctor of Medicine from tne University of New York.
—According to the Horne Journal: “ A critic on one of the daily papers asked the question in a music store the other day, ‘How many strings does a violin have, any how? ’ ”
—London IWiAsays: “Mlle Nevada, the young American, who is to take the opera-going public by storm this season, and before whom, her enthusiasts say, the radiance of Patti, and Albani, will pale, is at present staying at Nice, where she is diligently practicing. She will make her debut in ‘Somnambula’ at her Majesty’s opera, early in May. The young lady who is just 20, is reported to be a capital actress, and is to receive £3,000 for her services.”
—In January 1847, Dr. Todd, Librarian at Trinity College, Dublin, announced to the Royal Irish Academy that he had purchased a fragment of an ancient MS. on purple leaves, of the Latin Gospels. After long research, it has now been discovered, that this fragment can be traced back to the end ot the fourth century, and may be supposed to be an autograph of Eusebuis, first Bishop of Vercelli, Italy. The leaves bought, belong to the Cadex Palalinus of the imperial Library at Vienna, and it is not known how it has been seperated from the rest, and found its way to Ireland.
—The Holy Father, who takes a deep interest in the labors of Catholic “savants,” has sent word to Professor Jaussen that he would be pleased to read his history of the German people. The popularity of this splendid historical work may be interred from the circumstance that the 8000 copies of its just published second volume have all been sold, and that a second edition of this volume has become necessary before the third volume has made its appearance. The third volume is to treat of the secular princes,—who fostered Protestantism at its very beginning in the XVI century. .
—Arrangements have been made by the directors of the Philadelphia Academy of Music, to organise a chorus to be used in the operatic and other musical performances taking place in that edifice. The choristers, both male and female, will be furnished with musical instruction gratis, and will be drilled in the choruses of all the operas in which their services are likely to be required. Carl Sentz will be their instructor and director. They will be required to give their services for a time in return for the instruction received. An orchestra will also be organized on the same plan.
—Thirty or forty years ago there was a rush of Italian novels, says the Hour, caused by the great success of Manzoni’s work, “I Promessi Sposi.” Very few of them were of any importance; but a novel has just appeared in Naples, which, as a picture of contemporaneous Italian habits and morals, is a remarkable production. It is by Rat-faelle Colucci, and is called “Amanda.” The dramatic action of the story is based on love, jealously and revenge; but the life of the people, dancers, journalists, soldiers, singers, and officials, is described so naturally and skilfully, as to make “ Amanda ” a very attractive story.
—A correspondent in London writes: After hearing Mrs. Osgood sing Brahm’s Requiem, at the Bach Concert the other night in St. James’s Hall, Mdme. Jenny Lind went to the artiste’s room and congratulated her in terms of the highest praise. The popular soprano received quite an ovation after singing1' The Last Rose of Summer.” She has, without doubt, a great future before her in London ; though I heard she is considering some tempting offers to induce her not to carry out her expressed intention of settling down altogether in England. At that Bach festival, by the way, Mdme. Jenny Lind was a very interesting figure. She sat in the centre of the choir and sang in the choruses, while her husband conducted.
Scientific Notes.
—It has been lately discovered that fishes when going up rivers to spawn invariably take the left-hand side of the river, and when coming down take the opposite side. This may prove interesting to fishermen.
—The municipal authorities of Berlin have under consideration plans tor an elevated railroad across that capital, to be worked by electricity, and a special commission of engineers and architects have been commissioned to report upon it.
—The Russian Geographical Society contemplates issuing, in concert with the other scientific societies of Russia,* a descriptive work on Siberia, in view of the approaching tercentenary of the occupation of that country by the Russians.	'
—The cold winter has done great damage to the exotics in the public gardens of Paris. Over 10,000 trees and shrubs have been wholly or partly killed in the Champs Elysdes, 100,000 must be replaced in the Bois de Boulogne, and the new park at the Trocadero must be entirely replanted. The sum of $200,000 will hardly pay for the damage done.—New York Sun.
—The comparative merits of wood, asphalt, and granite pavements have been tested by Col. Heywood, engineer of the city of London. Tne number of horses falling down during the filly days test was 2,327, of which 542 fell on wood, 719 on granite, and 1,066 on asphalt. With the same expenditure of force, it is esitmated that a horse could travel 132 miles on granite, 191 miles on asphalt, and 415 on wood.
—The length of the actual St. Gothard tunnel is nine miles and three hundred and seventy-seven yards, while that of the Mount Cenis is rather more than a mile and a half less. The rate at which the rock was bored between Modane and BardonOche amazed mechanicians a dozen years since. But the daily progress made under the St. Gothard has been more than double. The contractor agreed that the work should be fiuished within eight years. The actual time has been seven months less than the stipulated term.
—The railroad to the crater of Vesuvius is now completed. The depot is situated at a height of 810 metres, or 210 metres above the Observatory. A restaurant and cafe capable of accommodating 100 people are attached to the depot. The angle of inclination of this railroad attains at various points 40, 50, and 63 degrees. There are two passenger cars, the Vesuvius and Etna, accommodating 12 persons each. The system adopted m the construction of the railway is ot American invention, and is known as “ the prismatic system.”
—A building roofed with tin is not less liable to be struck by lightning than a shingle-roofed building. If neither house were provided with a lightning-rod, the tin-roofed building, if struck, would be the safer, because the lightning would be likely to divide and spread over the metal, and find its way to the earth by several different paths on the exterior of the building, water leaders, gutters, etc. The wooden roof offers no such facility as metal, for the spread or division of the electric charge, but is apt to tear its way through the building to the ground in one path.	•	-
—The jaws and a portion of the vertebrae of a fossil sea
532
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
serpent (pythonomorpha) were found not long since in a marl pit at Malborough, New Jersey. Prof. Lockwood estimated the length of the living serpent to have been from forty to sixty feet—considerably less than that of a previously discovered specimen. Tooth marks on the bones indicate a grand feast of ancient fishes when the dead monster “lay like a great wreck on the old ocean bed.” The teeth though formidable are about half the size of those of the eighty-foot specimen previously discovered.—Scientific American.
—There is great excitement in Denver, Col., over a new discovery of gold near the mouth of the Canon of the Platte, a mile from the South Park Railroad, and within 20 miles from Denver. The vein of mineral was struck in the Dolly Varden mine, at the depth of 20 feet, last Friday. A specimen was brought to Denver and an assay obtained Saturday, the assay giving the value of the one at §21,199 per ton, §21,176 of it being gold. A publication of these facts was made in one of the papers Sunday morning, and before night, one hundred people were on the spot.
Exchanges.
—The Queen's College Journal, Kingston, Canada, comes to us this week well filled with interesting and readable 'matter. The CoV.ege World and De Nobis Nobilibus columns are well gotten up.
—Our neat and courteous contemporary the N. M. I. News, comes to us regularly every week. We decidedly like the tone and spirit of this charming little weekly, notwithstanding its attempts from time to time to make the Kentucky Military Institute the most happy place on earth. The good sense, too, evinced in many of its articles has ever been to us a sign of its success and utility, and in this we hope not to be disappointed.
—On turning over the pages of some of our valued college exchanges the names of new corps of editors present themselves to our view. This, of course, would seem to be an indication of marked changes both in the contents and general make up of the papers; but we are happy to be able to state that such is not the case. The fact is, the new editors take their position with such ease and grace that were we not told of the change we would scarcely notice it. This bespeaks well for the young editors, who, no doubt, will do their best to send forth a readable paper, and, above all, an able representative of their respective institutions.
—The May number of Donahoes Magazine is received. It contains original selected matter of an interesting and instructive nature. The following is a portion of its valued contents: I, Father Prout (Illustrated!; II, The Exiled People (J. V. O’Connor); III, An Englishman on the Apparitions at Knock; IV, Dignity of Labor: A Grand Discourse; V, Lough Derg and its Pilgrimages; VI, The Pope’s Brother on Ireland’s Fidelity to the Faith; VII, High Treason: A Tale of the Jesuits of the 17th Century; VIII, Catholicity and the Kaffirs; IX, Some Forgotten Aspects of the Irish Question; X, A May Ramble; XI, Nihilism: its Programme and Workings; XII, Irish and English Freemasons and their Foreign Brothers.
—We have just received the first number of The Western Normal Educator, published at Ladoga, Indiana. It is a handsome school journal. The mechanical part is faultless. Its editor, Mr. T. W. Fields, has a wide reputation as a teacher and writer. He had been extensively engaged in teaching in all grades of schools, and also has had large experience in journalism. He understands the wants of teachers, and has the faculty of supplying the want. He has engaged some of the best contributors in the United States to aid him. Prof. T. W. Giffe will conduct a Musical Department. The Educator will contain portraits and sketches of prominent teachers. Every teacher should subscribe at once. Price, §1 a year. Send 10 cents for sample copy. Address, T. W. Fields, Ladoga, Ind.
—The Catholic World has at last fallen into the drift of
magazines in announcing the names of its writers. This will be grateful news to its readers, for when a good thing is said or done, it is only natural that men should desire to know who said or did it. No one suspected The Catholic World of concealing the names of its contributors, through the feebleness of its writers, for its articles invariably display the stamp of exceptional ability, even where they may not always meet the popular taste. In the array of writers presented, The Catholic World very fairly justifies its title. There is one Bishop, Dr. Keane, of Richmond, and four clergymen: Father Hecker (the editor;; Father Hewitt, of the Paulist Congregation; Father Joseph O’Conor, a secular; and Father Kaeder, a Benedictine. There are six lay writers, two of them, of what the Catholic Church calls “the devout female sex.” The ladies are Miss Kathleen O’Meara, who is widely known as an accomplished novelist and biographer; and Miss Edith Cook, who contributes a sweet poem—Ave Maria. The male sex is not marked so distinctly in the language of the Church. It is to be supposed, however, that even the lay contributors to The Catholic World may be set down as “devout” also. Of these, one name, that of Aubrey de Vere, is known to all the English-reading world over, as that of a true poet and noble writer. His present sonnets on “ St. Thomas Aquinas,” will certainly not diminish his well-earned fame. Mr. Arthur Marshall, the author of that exceedingly clever brochure, The Comedg of Convocation, and brother of Dr. Marshall, the author of Uhristian Missions, contributes an article at once incisive and gay on “English Light Literature.” Dr. Cornelius O’Leary writes a very interesting review, or rather article, on Quatre-fages’ work on the “ Human Species.” It is rare to meet a writer on a scientific subject who can catch the average ear. This, Dr. O’Leary admirably succeeds in doing. Mr. Nugent Robinson gives the second instalment of his “ Raid into Mexico,” a story of the Lever style, and not a whit behind that master-painter of Irish adventure, wit, and love-making. Mr. John McCarthy takes up in an earnest manner the very important subject of “ Catholic Colonization.” For the rest, the clergy, with the exception of Father O’Conor, who writes a bright article on “ The Military Novel,” confine themselves to subjects that might be classed as philosophical, polemical, or theological, though written in a manner that the average intellect can master without effort. Father Hecker’s “Intellectual Outlook of the Age” is a bold attempt to grasp the current drift of thought, and show how it may be turned into the great Catholic stream. This is seconded, though doubtless unintentionally, by Father Hewit’s calm and beautiful exposition of “ The Genesis of the Catholic Church ” ; while Bishop Keane makes quite a lively inroad into the “New Christianity” of Matthew Arnold, Dean Stanley, and folk of that ilk. Father Kaeder’s paper on the Benedictines might be called a glowing bird’s eye view of his historic Order. Altogether, the number presents a variety of features, of interest and worth. Those who care for reading with something in it, will always turn to The Catholic World in preference to many a more “ popular ” magazine.	-
—The Catholic Quarterly Review for April, published by Hardy & Mahony, 505, Chestnut St., Philadelphia, is, like all the numbers of this able quarterly, full of solid and instructive matter—matter that needs only be read to be appreciated; hence, not only is it a publication suited to the learned and those possessing a college education but to all truth-loving and truth-seeking minds. The Quarterly Review, as some erroneously believe, does not confine itself exclusively to theological discussions and points of Catholic faith and morals, but it embraces all interesting subjects—philosophical, historical, scientific, literary, and political. Its contributors are men of solid attainments, and may, we believe, be classed among the best and ablest writers both of this country and of Europe. The leading article of the present number is by the learned Jesuit, Father Thebaud, who treats “Public Education in France—The Ferry Bill,” in a fair and impartial manner, and is no doubt the most able and lucid exposition of the present state of affairs in that country that has yet come under our notice. The author gives full credit to the unfortunate late Emperor of France, Napoleon III, for trying to grant to the Church the privilege of the full
I

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	633
university course, after having been so well satisfied with the results of the freedom granted to the Church for primary and secondary education. But before Napoleon could carry out his plan, he was Emperor no more. “After the war, Count Joubert introduced on his own responsibility in the National Assembly at Versailles, in 1871, a bill on the freedom of superior education.” Four years later it passed, and, strange to say, M. Jules Ferry was one of its most strenuous supporters; “ but,” adds the writer, “ then he bad not yet received his cue from the Masonic Lodge.” The second article, “The Sixth Nicene Canon and the Papacy,” is also an able effort, and is from the pen of our accomplished writer and scholar, Rev. James F. Loughlin, D. D. “The Laws of the Catholic Church with regard to Secret Societies,” by Rev. C. Coppins, S. J., is practical, and no one having any doubt of the authority of the Church to forbid her children under the most grave penalties to enter these secret organizations, but should read it, as he will find therein the why and wherefore for the strict action ot the Church in this respect. “ American Rationalism,” by the author of “ Curious Questions,” Rev. H. A. Brann, D. D., shows the master hand of a true philosopher. We were just reading his “ Curious Questions ” when the Review came to hand, and therefore were glad to find something of our author in it. This article we recommend especially to the readers of Robert Ingersoll’s lectures on the “ Mistakes of Moses,” “ Skulls,” “ Ghosts,” “ Hell,” and “ Robert Burns.” Tne remaining articlesof the present number of the Quarterly are: “ Anglican Development,” by Featherstone Marshall, B. A.; on “The Rehabilitation of Catholic Terms in Dictionaries of the English Language,’’ by John Gilmary Shea, L.L. D.; “Noles on Spain,” by Sc. George Mivart; “A Question of Laughter,” by H. L. Richards; “The Late Encyclical on Christian Marriage,” by Very Rev. James A. Corcoran, D. D. “ The Latin text and English translation of the late Encyclical on Christian Marriage,” “The Letter of the Archbishops and Bishops ol the Province of New York, Boston, and Philadelphia to His Holiness, Leo XIII,'' and “ Books Notices,” close the April number of the Catholic Quarterly, which, in point of able and interesting articles, is second to no number that we have yet seen.
New Publications.
An Elementaet Guh>e to Dbtebminative Mineralogy, For the Ute ot the Practical Mineralogist and Prospector, and for Instruction in Schools and Academies, based upon the method ol Weisbach’s Tabellenzur Behimmung der Mincralim, applied chiefly to American species. By U. Gilbe.t Wheeler, Professor in the University of Chicago. Chicago, S. J. Wheeler, Publisher. 1880.
Just the work for beginners. By its means any one can, with a small collection of specimens, which can now be obtained at a nominal price, make himself acquainted with the principal ores and minerals of the country. The work is the more valuable as it enables the student to familiarize himself with the specimen before him, by the physical characteristics alone. This is a great convenience and often a saving of much time and trouble. For those who have not made some study of blowpipes or chemical analysis it is especially useful. To those who desire to have an elementary knowledge of practical mineralogy, we recommend it as the simplest work of the kind we have yet seen.
Sadlier’s Excelsior Studies in the History of the United States Fok Schools. By the Author ot “ Sadlier’s Elementary History.”
This is the title of a work lately issued by W. H. Sad-lier & Co., Barclay Street, New York, and, like most of the works ol its kind, is neat and attractive as to its typography and general make up; moreover we would be inclined to say that it is an improvement upon the other histories already used as text-books in our schools and colleges. There is one thing however, in which all of them seem to be lacking, and that is in giving something better than what they do give in regard to the hisiory of the country prior to Columbus. They speak of mound-builders, the round tower at New Port, and of other ancient remains; but all who take
the trouble to read this somewhat insipid matter will admit that there is no information to be derived therefrom. Who were the mound-builders ? whence came they ? and where did they go ? are questions that should at least be answered with some assurance of truth in this enlightened age? Our archaeologists and scientists interest themselves very much about matters of small moment in comparision to the point just alluded to, and since this is the case why not do a little in finding out something about America— about some of those curious monuments that seem to be left here in order to give them something to do. We have lately given publication to some interesting articles about the “ First discoverers of America,” in which facts hitherto comparatively unknown were brought to light Could not some of our great LL. D’s. take up the question and throw a little light upon a subject that is no doubt interesting and instructive. We noticed in a late number of the New York Tablet an article bearing on this point; and in fact, the writer seemed to have satisfied himself that he proved conclusively that the Irish did discover and settle in America centuries before Columbus was born, and that in the twelfth century this country was known to the Northmen as “ Great Ireland.” This is a point of history admitted by two no mean authorities—Rata and Beamish. It would be well, however, to bring all the authority possible to bear on the subject, and have those Latin manuscripts spoken of by Dr. Connyham in his “Life of St. Brendan ” translated, so that the world might know what they do contain. But let this pass. The work before us is beatifully illustrated. The maps are accurate, and, we think, superior in many respects to those found in similar publications. The divison of the work into sections or epochs, assist the memory and render the matter more interesting to the student. Another new feature is the” Bio-gi aphical Sketches ” and the “ Geographical Tablets.” The “make up” of the work as we have already remarked, is highly creditable to the publishers. It is printed in clear type, is of a convenient size, and furnishes a valuable contribution to American historical literature.
CoHege Gossip.
—The Yoo Gijinku College at Hirosaki, Japan, furnishes tuition at from fitly to ten cents a term.—Harvard Echo.
—Joseph Bartell, a bachelor millionare of this State has bequeathed $50,000, to Yale College.
—Peter Redpath, head of a large sugar refinery in Montreal, has donated $50,000 to build a geological museum for McGill University.
—The rumor that Mr. J. M. Sears has offered to Yale a gift ol $150,000 for a new gymnasium is now emphatically denied.—Harvard Echo.
—Professor Pierce, of Yale, College, expresses the opinion that the comet recently discovered is the wonderful comet of 1843 on its return.
—The Observatory at Stonyhurst (Jesuit College) is second in England to that of Greenwich alone, and the Museum and Library are noted lor their contents.
—Rome, April 20.—A grand philological fete, or polyglot academy, was held at the Vatican on the 18th inst, in honor of the exaltation to the throne of Pope Leo XIII. The diplomatic body, nobility. Archbishops, etc., were present. The scholars of the Propaganda recited poems in forty-nine different languages extolling the Pope.
—Scene in Geometry Examination. Stern Tutor:—The “gentleman who is cribbing will leave the room.” (Eighteen men rise suddenly from their seats with a sheepish expression of countenance.) Stern Tutor: Perhaps I should have said the gentleman who is not cribbing.” (To which the class gave a mental but unanimous assent.) —Student.
—After agitating the subject for some time, a Rugby Association has at last been formed at Cornell University. The Era states that the success of the enterprise now rests to a great extent with the managerand directors. As far as experience at Noire Dame goes, and football is a favorite game here, the Rugby rules need a little modifica* tion to make them more practicable.
534
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, May 1, 1880.
During the month of May, as is customary at Notre Dame, devotions will be held every evening. The first of these devotions commenced last evening, with President Corby as preacher. We hope to see these devotions well ■ attended, as they are conducive to the practice of piety, and cannot fail to be beneficial to all who attend them with the proper dispositions.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the This teen th year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, IndL.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $JL.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The beautiful month of May, adorned with Nature’s choicest gifts, is now upon us, and we all feel, as it were, renewed vigor—renewed life. This is, indeed, a month dear to all—dear in many ways; dear, because it is in reality the loveliest month of the year—a month that instinctively bids men rejoice and be glad, to unite with the warblings of the thrush and the sweet song of the “bird of the gentle beak” in sounding the great Creator’s praises.
But apart from the natural beauty attached to the month of May, it has an additional charm—a charm that arises from the fact of its being dedicated to the honor of the glorious Mother of God; hence, this month is ever to the true Catholic a time of joy and delight—a time in which he pours out of the abundance of his soul petitions and supplications that she, who calms the storms and assuages the tempests of Life’s stormy sea, may ever be to him the morning star of hope, and the beacon that leads to the harbor of happiness and peace.
To the student, also, this lovely month brings joy; he does not feel its days passing, and its hours flit by like a bird on the wing—like some sweet fairy queen en route to dream-land. There is, too, another consideration in connection with May which the student seldom looses sight of It is the thought that in a short time he will be able to see the dear loved ones at home, and go forth from his Alma Mater bearing away the honors of good scholarship, and good behavior.
May, then, is a month peculiar in its kind; it soothes the sinking spirit, it arouses the dormant feelings, and it incites into the soul thoughts of God, thoughts of His goodness, and of the care which He bestows upon the least and lowest of His creatures.
The time, we think, has at last come when that relic of semi-barbarous days—hazing—is about to receive a blow from which it shall never recover. Up to within the last few years, we believe, nothing was more common at some (we won’t say, many) of our American colleges, than the practice of submitting new-comers to this cruel and inhuman treatment. Being discountenanced, but yet no direct steps being taken to punish those guilty of the above crime, it has prevailed, we may say, up to the present time in a few of our institutions of learning, as the recent case of the colored cadet, Wittaker at Westpoint plainly shows. We do not know, of course, whether the case of Wittaker is a real case of hazing or not; but, anyhow, it looks so much like it, that there are few who will consider it otherwise. What right, we would ask, have students to punish anyone in this way? Is it not a direct violation of every law both human and divine? The young man who enters college has a perfect right to do so, without becoming thereupon the tool or butt of ridicule, or of any other treatment, odious or contemptible in its nature. However, we think that hereafter there will be scarcely any ground for complaint in this respect, as far as American colleges are concerned; that the case now under consideration will be a lesson to our high-blooded American youths, who look upon it, of course, as an amusement, but which is in reality a drawback to an institution, a source of serious consequences, a practice unbecoming young men preparing themselves for the great battle of life, and, more than all, unworthy of Christian charity.
Last week we announced that a new system of water works for protection against fire was being tested. This week we have the pleasure of stating that the test was entirely satisfactory, and that the water works did even better service than they were guaranteed to do. With forty pounds steam pressure, the pump will supply over six hundred gallons per minute, and throw it higher than the big Stand Pipe of South Bend, and with sixty pounds of steam, it will have the power of a reservoir three hundred and fifty feet high. In case of necessity, the pump will easily supply over one thousand gallons per minute. All who have examined it speak of it in the highest terms, and pronounce it admirably adapted for the work it is intended to do, viz., to supply a large amount of water under heavy pressure in the event of fire, and to fill the various tanks distributed through the College and other buildings.'
At the invitation of Very Rev. President Corby, Supt Abbott, Chief Brusie, J. Lovett, and T. Steeley, of the Water Works and Fire Department, of South Bend, made a thorough examination of the workings of the pump, and, when asked their opinion of its merits, gave the following written statement:
South Bend, Ind., April 26,1880.
To all it may concern Be it known that we, the undersigned, having carefully examined and tested the New Dayton Cam Pump, now in the steam-house at Notre Dame,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
find it for the purpose intended superior to any other pump that has yet come under our observation. Its great length of stroke, the relative sizes of the steam and water cylinders, but, above all, its Cam movement—a specialty of the pump— and the facility with which the valves may be got at in case of necessity, render it preferable to any other pump of the same size that we know of.
(Signed) E. L. Abbott, Supt. of South Bend Water Works;
O. H. Brusie, Chief of “ “ Fire Department; Jas. Lovett, of “ “ Hook & Ladder Co.;
L Steeley, Foreman of “ “ Hose Co., No. 5.

Y

i
The Entertainment given on last Saturday evening by the members of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association of the University came off well, and, we think, delighted all who had the pleasure of being present.
The first part of the programme—which, by the way, was no way stinted, as regards its length—chiefly consisted of addresses, songs, declamations, etc. The address read by A. Coghlin to Rev. Father Walsh, the Vice-President, to whom the whole Entertainment was dedicated, was most excellent in its kind, and elicited many smiles of approbation from the large audience. The singing, on the whole, was good, and disclosed the fact that among the Philopatrians are a number of excellent voices. Solos were given in a creditable manner by Masters Guthrie, Rhodius, Nelson, Larkin, Conyne, and Litmer.
In part second the “Humors of the Strike ” was admirably rendered by Masters F. -Groenewald, E. Gaines, J. V. Gabel, G. 0. Castanedo, S. Livingston, J. Seeger, 0. Farrelly, and A. Conyne, together with a song and chorus by J. Guthrie and Society.
The third part of the programme consisted of the grand spectacular drama of “ The Prince of Portage Prairie, or the Burning of Bertrand,” with a powerful cast of characters. This proved to be the grand event of the evening, and we hesitate not to say that no one present will ever forget the burning of Bertrand, the wild war whoop of the Indian savages, and the hundred-and-one other exciting scenes that, from beginning to end, kept the audience in a state of feverish excitement. The costumes worn by the actors were rich and beautiful, and when brought In contrast with the beautiful scenery—for which this play is especially noticeable—bordered closely on the sublime.
But now, to the little defects that were noticed here and there. First of all, it must be remembered that the Philopatrian Society is made up of the younger members of the Junior Department, and, consequently, so much cannot be expected of them as of their older neighbors—the Cecil-ians. Well, to speak the truth, there were some short stops and long stops on Saturday evening. Some of the boys did act well, but others, not so well. Now, as to those who did render their parts to the satisfaction of all present, we might mention the names of Masters P. Fletcher, P. Nelson, M. Vedder, G. Rhodius, J. Devitt, J. Larkin, A. Conyne, E. Croarkin, and others. In fact, we may say that the acting of all the boys who participated deserves more or less praise, and, taken on the whole, “ The Prince of Portage Prairie ” was rendered in a highly creditable manner. The Zouaves, commanded by Captain O’Neill, was one of the nicest parts of the Entertainment. The little fellows showed careful training in military tactics.
As to the music, we have but little to say. The Band, we think, might do far better than it did. The material is there, but why it did not show itself on last Saturday
evening is something for which we cannot account The Orchestra did not play much, but what it did play was good. Prof. J. A Lyons certainly deserves much praise for last Saturday evening’s Entertainment, which was in a manner most successful, and creditable to each and every one who was in any way connected with it
After all that has been said, and that may be said respecting education, it is certain and beyond dispute that although we have in this country at present every means for the reception of a good education, still there are a certain class of individuals for whom an education is more of a curse than a blessing. Nature, it seems, has not designed or intended them to be what may be termed learned; indeed, it would have been far belter for them that they had never gone farther in the way of receiving an education than to learn to read and write. Yet it by no means follows that because there are persons ill-adapted for storing their minds with knowledge that schools and colleges should not be considered the civilizers of men and the very best props of society; for although it sometimes— and, in fact, more than sometimes—happens that the greatest rascal is well educated, so far as book-learning is concerned, yet for all this society and the very laws of our constitutional being demands that education should not be neglected; and furthermore, that parents are obliged to procure an education for their children,—an education that will not discipline the mind to the detriment of the heart, but will cultivate the whole individual being,—heart, mind and intellect—and will enable him to take his place in the world as a man, fulfilling the end for which an All-wise Providence created him.
It has been well said “that the result of education should be to elevate one’s uses,” but how can this be effected if the heart is not disciplined at the same time with the mind, and if the nobler part of man is not seen to, and every effort made to train him up in the way he should walk? Again, the end and aim of true education should be to make men better—to make them good citizens, so that the law both of God and the State may be observed. If an education be of such a nature as to train up a youth to the keeping of those laws for which he will be punished, if found violating them, without caring for the laws of God or oi His Church, this education must be of a most injurious nature—it must be the cause of a countless number of sins, for which the persons or State supplying the education must be answerable, at least to a certain extent.
Again, it has been said that “there is a certain kind of character which if it tries to be a scholar is a miser with its wealth, inasmuch as it does not know how to spend and make use of it.” To be able to make use of the wealth of an education, is certainly no little feature in a man, as it is in its proper use benefits may be derived from it, and a harvest of bountiful actions reaped. The great fault, however, is not with education as it is received in any one of our American institutions, as the various modes of its reception are but accidentals, and in no way pertain to its essence. And so education, in so far as it is received, is good; but when not received sufficiently, together with a wrong method used in its reception, it then produces a something that is conceded by all to be anything but good; nay, it often leads men to the commission of the most abominable crimes, renders them more of imps in human form than anything else.
THETNOTRE dame scholastic.
The world, it is true, is full of mistakes and blunders; and it is noticeable that iu those very things of the greatest moment the gravest mistakes are often made. For years the subject of education has been discussed, some giving reasons for this kind of an education, others, for that; yet we are as far to-day from any fixed and general plan as we were twenty-five or thirty years ago.
But, if all things were right, there would be nothing wrong; the result of the Fall would not be so visible in man’s almost every action; and our total dependence on a merciful God would not be so apparent.
Even, then, in man’s mistakes good can be seen; that is> of course, when we look at them as being done, by weak, feeble creatures—creatures who are so dependent on an All-powerlul Creator as to be able to do, or accomplish nothing without His assistance.
vices, for we are sure be will prove a valuable acquisition to them, and wish Mr. Barrett himself health and success.
Obituary.
—This week the Scholastic chronicles the death of a dear friend of the Institution, in the person of Mb. E. Summers, whose sad and unexpected death took place at his residence near Notre Dame, on the morning of the 19.h ult. Mr. Summers was an old and highly-esteemed resident of this township, a truly good neighbor, charitabe and strictly honest in his dealings with others, and as such is no small loss to the community of which he formed a part. His funeral obsequies took place on Thursday, April 22d, in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart and thence his remains, accompanied by a large number of sorrowing relations and devoted friends, were conveyed to Cedar Grove Cemetery for interment. Requiescat in pace.
1
I
■i

Personal.
—F. M. Scrafford, ’72, resides at Seneca, Kansas.
—	T. Blackburne, ’60, is doing well in Philadelphia, Pa.
—	Walter Bartlett (Commercial), ’72, is in business at Marshall, Ill.
—	Owen Templeton, ’68, is in the real estate business at Fowler, Ind.
—	Chas. Wheeler, ’73, is an Attorney at Law, Mechanicsville, Iowa.
—	Franklin Dwyer (Commercial), ’67, is living in San Francisco, Cal.
—	E. J. N ugent, ’72, is married, and in the dry-goods business in Louisville, Ky.
—We regret to learn that John R. English, of Columbus, Ohio, (Commercial), ’79, is again very ill.
—	Firman Rozier, ’68, is in the banking business with his lather at St. Genevieve, Mo.
—	L. Reswick (Commercial), ’67, can be found at the Lake Shore Depot, Toledo, Onio.
—	Henry Lecompte (Commercial), ’69, is in business in St Louis, Mo., and is by all accounts doing admirably.
—	Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., (’54,) possesses one of the choicest libraries in the province ot Ontario, Canada.
—	Rev. Father Shortis, the esteemed Chaplain of St.. Mary’s, is, we are glad to* learn, on the mending hand We nope to see him around soon.
—Charles J. Hertich, ’69, is practising physician in his native place, St. Genevieve, Mo. We are sure the classmates ol Dr. Hertich will be glad to hear ot his welfare.
—Very Rev. Ferdinand Kutell, D. D., Secretary to the Rt. Kev. Dr. Tutgg, Bishop of Pnisbuig, spent a lew days at Notre Dame inis week.
—Mrs. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Indiana, spent the early part ot this week at Notre Dame, visiting her son who is a student iu the J uniur Department.	'
—On Friday, the 23 ult., Mr. Thos. Barrett, late superintendent ot the steam neating department here, lett lor Cleveland, whence he goes to Cincinnati to be present at the Millers’ Exposition, as repre-entative of Smith, Vaite & Co., of Dayton, Ohio. Alter the exhibition, Mr. Barrett will enter upon the duties of foreman in the large steam-pumpfactory of the above named firm, tor which his. long experience in machinery admiiably fits him. All who have known Mr. Barrett, have found him to be a kind, quiet, and obliging gentleman; never obtrusive, but always willing to do a lavor, thus winning the good will ot all with whom he came in contact. A skilful workman, and thoroughly posted in everything pertaining to his trade, we know no one to whom we could more cordially recommend to a position ol trust and responsibility, similar to the one he is now entering upon, than Mr. Barrett. We congratulate his employers on having secured his ser-
Local Items.
—Splendid weather for baseball.
—The Nimrods had wild duck for dinner last Tuesday.
—Competitions next week in the Preparatory Department.
—The boys enjoyed an extra recreation on last Tuesday afternoon.
—The recreation-halls are rather solitary looking places those fine days.
. —Promenades around the Senior Campus are very frequent those times.
—A choice collection of flowers may be found in the Minim’s study-hall.
—The grounds around the St. Aloysius Home are now in splendid condition.
—A large audience greeted the Philopatrians on .the evening of their Entertainment.
—The Surveying Class was out on Tuesday last levelling the grounds in front of the college.
—Prof. Lyons certainly deserves praise for the beautiful Entertainment of Saturday evening last.
—The tableaux at the Philopatrians’ Entertainment were very fine. There was no lack ol red light.
—A new arrival from Boston has made his appearance on the grounds, and now “ Dick ” is happy.
—The Nimrods are active those times, and hence the ducks disappear pretty lively from the lakes.
—The members of the Philopatrian Society had their photos taken in lull costume last Wednesday.
—Brother Bonaventure is commencing to get the grounds in front of the College in good shape.
—We have been visited by pretty heavy storms of late. What does our weather propuet think ot them?
—Quite a respectable looking pier was constructed on the upper lake by the Juniors on last Wednesday.
—Charlie Hagan caught in the upper lake, on last Wednesday, a black bass weighing nearly tour pounds.
—The Seniors, Juniors and Minims were fishing last Wednesday, and succeeded in taking a number ot fine fish.
—Bulletins were made out on last Wednesday at the usual time and place. Needless to say, there was a lull attendance.
—A game of baseball was played on Saturday, the 24th ult, between Fletcher’s and Seeger’s nines, in which the latter were victorious.
—Handball still has its favorites in the different Departments, despite the enticing efforts of the baseballists to get new recruits.
—How beautiiul are the strains of music that can now be heard every evening emanating from the shady groves of the St. Aloysius Home I
J
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
537
—The drama of “ The Prince of Portage Prairie, or the Burning of Bertrand ” is to be translated into Portuguese, Polish, German and French.
—All. should have their little hymn books with them every night al May devotions, as, by doing this, they will be able to join in the singing.
—Few of the students, we believe, enter into a game of baseball with such earnestness and enthusiasm, as the younger boys of the Minim Department.
—D. Harrington, of the Law Class, delivered a lecture on “Administrators and Executors” before the 1st BookKeeping Class, on Saturday, the 17thult.
—At last the crews for the race to come off during Com-mencementt week have been chosen, and now we may expect to see things lively about the St. Joseph’s Lake.
—We would like to call the attention of the baseballists to the fact that no game will appear in full in the columns of the Scholastic the score of which has exceeded twelve.
—A game of baseball was played on Tuesday aftetnoon between the Star of the East and Mutuals, which resulted in a victory for the Star of the East, by a score of 20 to 10.
—A large number of young trees were received at Notre Dame this week, and now our horticulturists will be busy in getting these young “sprouts” in their proper places.
—A large number of the boys go fishing on recreation days, and that they are successful is but to apparent by the large number ot fish they carry with them on their return.
—The lecture last Saturday before the 1st Book-Keeping Class was delivered by Mr. J. McEniry of the Law Class. His subject was “Property,” which was handled in an able manner.
—The Zouaves tender a vote of thanks to Bros. Simon, Ildefonsus, and Narsus for favors received in connection with their late banquet.
—One interesting feature of the Entertainment of last Saturday evening was that each and every one belonging to the Association took part in it. The Society numbers over forty members.
—An interestimg game of baseball was played on the 28th inst. between a picked nine of the Seniors and the Atlantics. Altera close contest of two hours, the game resulted in a score of 8 to 9 in favor of the former.
—Captain O’Neill had the “ Philopatrian Zouaves ” in good trim for the Entertainment of last Saturday evening. The young fellows went through their “tactics” in a manner highly creditable to their instructor and themselves.
—Friend John is at last converted. He says he’s sorry to see the manner in which the Sabbath is treated by some of his neighbors. He certainly should receive medical aid at once, for it may be the symptons of----. Well, we’ll see. .
—The procession that is made every year at Notre Dame on the Feast of St. Mark took place on last Sunday immediately after High Mass. We must say that it was one of the finest we have ever seen here on similar occasions.
—The 11th regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary, took place April 25ih. Master H. Ruse read an instructive essay on the “ Ceremonies of the Mass” and Master C. Tinley spoke about “ Indulgences.”
—The best bulletins in the Junior Department for the month of April were awarded to M. J. Burns, E. C. Orrick, R E. Fleming, W. J. McCarthy, and W. T. Weney. M. J. Burns, and R. E. Fleming, exaquo; E. C. Orrick, 2d best; W. J. McCarthy and W. T. Weney, 3d. best.
—The 29ih regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held April 16th. At this meeting M. J. Burns, J. A. Gibbons, N. Weny, J. Herman read essays. Public readers for the week are: M. J. Burns, A. Caren, F. Flynn, E. Orrick, F. Grever, R. Parrott.
—At the 25th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society, an unaniomous vote of thanks was tendered to Profs. A. J. Stace and J. F. Edwards, Mr. T. Mc
Namara, C. S. C., Bros. Leander, Simon and Wilfred for favors extended to them at their annual Entertainment
—The large telescope which was presented to the University by the late Emperor Napoleon, and which for along time past was situated in an observatory just in front of the College, was removed to the College building this -week,—the proper laying out of the grounds in front of the College necessitating the removal of the observatory.
—We clip the following from a Chicago paper relative to Miss Mitz’s visit to Notre Dame for the purpose of entering her two nephews in the Minim Department: “ Miss Tina Metz has recently visited Notre Dame University, at South Bend, Indiana. She expressed herself as highly pleased with the institution, and left her two nephews, to drink at the fount of learning.”
—P. Shickey’s livery stable near the St. James Hotel and Lake Shore Depot, is not only well supplied with the best of buggies and carriages, but has lately had added a first-class hack. Mr. Shickey desires his friends to remember him with their patronage, and wishes them to give him a call when needing any kind of a vehicle. Conveyances always in readiness for funerals.—South-Bend Tribune.
The following works were purchased for the Lemonnierjx'" Library during the past week: Naval History of Great Britain, Including the History and Lives of the British Admirals by Dr. John Campbell, Stockdale Edition, 8 vols.; The Josephine Gallery, Edited by Alice and Pucebe Cary; Hugh Miller’s Complete Works, Including the Old Red Sandstone, Tales and Sketches. My Schools and Schoolmasters, Foot-prints of the Creator, The Cruise of the Betsey, Scenes and Legends, First Impressions of England, Edinburgh and its Neighborhood, Leading Articles, Essays, The Headship of Christ, Popular Geology, Testimony of the Rocks, 13 vols.; Dramatic Works of John Ford, 2 vols.; Rasselas, Samuel Johnston. Tnanks are returned for the tollowing donations: to Mr. E. Kilz, of Indianapolis, for S wedenburg’s Works, 13 vols., to Miss Kate McCabe, ot Milwaukee, Wis., for Memoirs of the History of France During the Reign of Napoleon, Dictated by the Emperor at St. Helena to the Generals who shared His Captivity, and Published from the Original Manuscripts, Corrected by Himself, London, 1823, 7 vols.; To C. Roberts, of Michigan City, for a fine copy of The Life and Habits of Wild Animals, Illustrated from Designs by Jos.-Wolf, Eng., by J. W. and E. Whymper, Elliot; To Rev. C. Kelly for Atwater’s Logic; To Rev. Aurthur Haviland, of Philadelphia, Lives ot Pope Pius IX and Leo XIII; Catholicism in England, Hermans; Public School Question, McQuade; Our Public Schools, Dunne; Cnanles-town Convent; Louise La'eau, Ruhling; Catholic Church in the United States, Hecker; Grants of Land and Gifts of Money to Catholic and non-Catholic Institutions in New York compared; Switzerland m 1876, Sweeney; History of Protestantism, B. L. Nichols, M. D.; Dupanloup’s Remarks on the Encyclical of Dec. 8.1864.
—One year ago yesterday the magnificent structure of Notre Dame University was burned. The hundreds upon hundreds of people who visited the spot a year ago to-day saw only a great mass of smouldering ruins, with here and there a ragged wall rising from them. A more complete picture ot desolation it would be hard to find than that which blurred the otherwise fair landscape ot Notre Dame. Many wondered then if such a calamity would not prove so serious a blow to the prosperity of Notre Dame that it would take years and years to recover from it. Those who thought thus did not dream of what stern stuff the hearts of those who presided over the welfare of Notre Dame was made. Before the embers were turned to ashes willing hands were at work among the ruins, and almost before the bricks were void of the heat ot the furnace of fire through which they passed they were removed from the site, and then was growing there under the deft hands of hundreds of workmen, a structure more magnificent in its proportions, more beautiful in its architecture and more convenient for its purposes than the one which preceded it. To-day the visitor to Notre Dame as he drives down the maple-lined avenue which leads to the university ■ grounds sees rising before him the most magnificent architectural pile to be found in the state. Indeed, we doubt if it has an equal among any of the educational institutes of
-i
638
THE KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the country for beauty in construction, or for the comfort and convenience of its students. Its exterior and interior were described at length in these columns while the building was in course of construction as were the buildings adjoining it, and a repetition of the description is unnecessary. The interior of the University building is completed except in one or two rooms and the immense rotunda. This latter will not be finished until the dome is run up. The dormitories, study rooms, parlors, reception rooms and all are furnished, and the students are pursuing their studies as if there had been no break. Ot course, with the old students and the faculty there is a regret over the loss of old Notre Dame, so rich in historical associations, that time nor place will never efface, and it will always have a pleasant place in memory along with the beauties of the New Notre Dame that has sprung from its ashes. The people from all parts of the country who visit Notre Dame at commencement will be surprised at what the industry, energy and perseverance of Very Rev. E. Sorin, Father Corby and their able assistants have done. It is a grand work for which they are entitled to great credit.—South-Bend Tribune, April ^h.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPABTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, A. J. Burger, J. Berteling, J. Brice, F. Brown, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Con nolly, G. E. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, A. Dobson, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, G. Harns, J. Hunt, W. Hesse, W. Hamilton, R. L. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, C. H. Karins, J. Kurz, P. B Larkin, A A Lent, F. Lynch, E Lynch, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGor-risk, M. J. McEniry, J. McNamara, A. J. McIntyre, P. McCormick, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, A Meyer, E. Molitor, L. Mathers, C. Moore, F. A Mattingly, J. R. Marlett, J. Noonan, G.. Nester, L J. Newton, R, C. O’Brien, J. Osher, G. Pike, L. M. Proctor, W. Ryan, F. Reeve, T. W. Simms, H. Simms, G. Sugg, J. Solon, L. Stitze], P. F. Shea, J. Smith, F. Smith, S. Smim, L. Smith, C. B. Van Dusen, C. Whalen, H. Wathen, A Zahm, T. Zeien.
.	JUNIOR DEPABTMENT.
J. Brown, A Burger, C. Brinkman, T. Byrne, A. Bodine, H. W. Bachman, F. Becker, M. J. Bums, M. G. Buller, V. Butler, G. C. Castanedo, F. L. Carter, A Caren, E. H. Croarkin, A M. Coghlm, L. W. Coghlin, W. S. Cleary, J. D. Coleman,* J. W. Devitt, H. Devitt, F. f. Dever, J. E. Davis, G. W. De Haven, R. Fleming, G. C. Foster, H. G. Foote, P. Fletcher, T. Flynn, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A Gibbons, F. Glaue, E. H. Gaines, E. F. Gall, A C. Hierb, A J. Hintze, J. A Hermann, A F. fiellebusche, F. R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, J. M. Kelly, F. A. Kleine, R. Le Bourgeois, 8. Livingston, J. A Larkin, J. W . Kunu, F. McPhilhps, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, A 8. Manning, F. P. Morrison, P. P. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, E. A. Otis, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Pmllips, F. A Quinn, G. J. Quinn, C. H. Roberts, C. F. Rietz, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A 8. Rock, A H. Ruhrback, R. J. Semmes, R. C. Simms, A. P. Perley, N. J. Nelson, J. K Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A Seeger, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Schied, C. Schneider, C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, N. T. Weny.
* The name of J. D. Coleman was omitted last week through mistake.
MINIM DEPABTMENT.
G. P. Van Mourick, J. M. Courtney, D. G. Taylor, W. H. Hanivan, E. A Howard, J. A Campau, H. A. Kitz, C. E. Droste, C. C. Echlin, G. C. Knight, J. S. Courtney, A Van Mourick, W.. Olds, J. Smith, H. Dunn, J. Dwenger, J. Henry, E. C. Campau, J. A Kelly, W. Ayres, H. J. Ackerman, E. N. O’Donnell, J. E. Johnson, L. J. Young, J. E. Chaves, C. Young, C. Metz, A F. SchmucKle, F. B. Farrelly.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES FINE ABTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
A 3. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, E; Litmer, J. Hermann, C. Rietz,
J. Gibbons, H. Rose, C. Rose, C. Roberts, F. Carter, F. Grever, R. Le Bourgeois, C. Schneider, G. Rhodius, A Manning, A Hierb, R. Pomy, F. Groenewald, J. Morgan, A Burmeister, J. Weitzel, A Hellebusch, F. Kleine, H. Bachman, J. Seeger, S. Dering, W. McGorrisk, M. J. Bums, E. Molitor, J. V. Cable, J. Davis, E. Sugg, A Tate, G. Clarke, R. Campbell, D. Donahoe, D. Harrington, R. O’Brien, T. Simms, F. Wall, A J. Burger, W. Connolly, R. Keenan, F. Quinn, J. Guthrie, E. Fogarty, C. Tinley, F. Bloom, L. Stitzel, B. J. Claggett, R. O’Connor, F. Johnson, F. Kinsella, F. Carter, J. Marlett, E. Gall, A. Dobson, M. Vedder, A Lent, J. Schobey, R. O’Connor, J. M. Kelly.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best In the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES. ’
German—E. Sugg, F. Kleine, M. J. Bums, A. Hellebusch, J. Courtnev, Jos. Courtney, Jas. Smith, U. Brinkman, C. Rose, H. Rose, G. Castanedo, J. Gibbons, E. Litmer, J. Hermann, E. Otis; French—A Tate, R. Le Bourgeois, G. Castanedo; Piano —C. F. Rietz, N. T. Weney, H. W. Bachman, R. E. Keenan, H. Simms, G. S. Rhodins; Violin—B. J. Clagget, F. W. Bloom, Jos. Smith, F. Kinsella; Flute—F. Grever, A Hellebusch; Cornet —F. Bell, J. Guthrie ; Guitar—E. Fogarty, E. Molitor; Artistic Drawing—J. A Seeger; Telegraphy—P. Shea, E. Ewell, R. E. Keenan, M. Vedder, F. Philips, O. Farrelly, A. Lent, J. Marlett, Elocution—J. B. McGrath, F. Wall, C. Hagan, W. J. McCarty, C. Tinley, E. Orick, G. Donnelly, D. Danahey, J. 0. Neill, A Zahm, J. Guthrie, L. Smith, J. Gibbons, F. Phillips, A Mergen-theim, C. Brinkman, F. Quinn, F. Bell, A. Rohrbach, A Conyne, W. Jones, F. Becker, W. Start, C. Rose, H. Deehan, S. Henoch, J. Brice, J. Guthrie.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—In the poem “In Memoriam,” of last week, third line, for “ fairy ” read “ fair.”
—Very Rev. Father Kittell, D. D., celebrated Mass in the Chapel of Loretto on Monday.
—There is a healthy, invigorating spirit of emulation pervading the Second Preparatory Grammar Class.
—The members of the Second Senior Class deserve special mention for their studious interest manifested in their Chemistry and Rnetoric.
—The “Five Scapulars” were given on Sunday in the Chapel of Loretto. The young ladies invested were the Misses L. Walsh, McCoy, Cronin and Engel. •
—At the regular meeting of St. Gertrude’s German Literary Society the reading was a continuation of Schiller. The members deserve especial commendation for the beautiful selections recited, and for the close attention given to the reading.
—At the regular Academic reunion the reading was “The Pilot,” by Miss Saloman; “Dos FUEmmchen," by Miss Hackett; “Education,” Mgr. Dupanloup, by Miss Neu; and “Under the Sanctuary Lamp,” Eleanor C. Donnelly, by Miss Gordon.	'
—At the regular meeting of St. Clotilde’s French Lit-' erary Society the reading was “ Une Esquisse de la vie de Mr. Guizat." At the request of the young ladies, they were permitted to converse, being at liberty to select such topics as presented themselves.
—At the regular reunion in the Junior Department the reading was “ The Better Land,” Mrs. Hernans, by Miss Hackett; “V Indiscretion punie” (Anecdote de Frederic de Busse) Miss Papin; “ Frudensliedchen," by Miss Harrison; and “St. Joseph,” from “ The Messenger," by Miss French.
—Visitors: Very Rev. Ferdinand Kittell, D. D., Pittsburg, Penn.; Miss Bassett, Miss Pusnan, Mr. Leyden, Chicago; Mr. Paw, Vicksburg, Mich.; Mr. Wright, Elk- .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	539
hart, Ind.; Mrs. Osborne, Bristol, Ind.; Mrs. Patterson, Carthage, N. Y.; Mr. Wheelock, Janesville, Wis.; Miss Orr, Niles, Mich.
—The monthly Exposition and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament for the Archconfraternity of the Perpetual Adoration took place on Sunday, Feast of St. Mark. At early Mass the Litany of Ail Saints was recited publicly, as the stormy weather prevented the customary procession of St. Mark’s day.
—The subject of the final lecture for this year to the pupils of the Conservatory of Music, at the regular meeting of St. Cecilia’s Society, was “ The Music of the Greeks and Romans, during the Heroic Age.” The general history of music is so voluminous that the course will be resumed, Deo volente, in September. The young ladies are to be congratulated on the great advantage afforded them in these instructions, and they have carefully gathered the benefits to be derived by their strict attention and by taking faithful notes at each meeting. The instructions have been illustrated by examples on the piano of “ Peoples Songs,” etc., and interspersed with descriptions of musical instruments of different countries.
Boll of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THB
Graduating Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 1st Class —Misses Gordon, Buck. 2d Div.—Misses Sullivan Usselman, Neu. 2d Class—Misses Kirchner, Campbell, Rosing, Killelea, Farrell. 2d Div.—Misses McMahon, Hackley. 3d Glass— Misses Semmes, Wells, Callinan, Salomon, Gall, Bruser. Reinhard, Maloney. 2d Div.—Misses C. Hackett, Julius, Donnelly, Woodin, H. Hackett, Bischofi, English, Horner, A Ewing. 4th Class—Misses Davis, Urummey, Price, Palmer, Cavenor, C. Campbell. 2d Div.—Misses Wurzburg, French, Fox, Mitchell, Leydon, Van Namee, Otto, Garrity. 5th Class—Misses Gavan, A. Dillon, Regensburg, Casey, Danaher, O’Connor, C. Wathen, Purdy, Loeber, Keys, Brown. 2d Div.—Misses Dessaint, Thompson, Wells, Hammond, Feehan, Simms, S. Wathen, Reut-linger, Orr, Harrison, Hutchinson, Gibbons, Wall, Populorum, C. Lancaster, Legnard, Lancaster, Cronin, Moxon, Lloyd, Tailman, Populorum, Fitzgerald, Paddock. 6th Class—Misses Fishburne, Rasche, Fleming, Barlow, Duncan, Murphy, Greenebaum, McFadden, De Lapp, Baroux, Knighton, Ryan, Papin, E. Ryan, Carter, Chirhart. 2d Div.—MissesGinz, G. Taylor, Watson, Moll, Ed-elen, Clarke, Swayze, Wilkins, Taylor, Wright, Ward, Lemontey, Cox, Zimmerman. 7th Class—Misses Engel, Smith, MCormick, Reynolds, I. Hackett, McCloskey, Halloran. 8th Class— Misses, Butts, Heeney, B. Garrity, Cleghorn. 9th Class— Misses Strong, M. Fitzgerald, M. Baroux, Chaves. 10th Class —Misses P. Ewing, T. Ewing.
FT arp—1st Class—Misses Galen. 2d. Div.—Misses Semmes, Dillon. 3d Div.—Miss Bruser.
Organ—Misses C. and 8. Wathen.
FT a rmgnv—Misses Galen, Dillon, Keenan. 2d. Class—Misses Buck, Gordon. 3d. Class—Misses Usselman, Neu.
KTPrrisps—Misses Galen, Dillon, Buck, Usselman, Neu, Campbell, Hackley Gall, Saloman, Wells, H. Hackett, Bischofi, English, Davis, Crummey, Palmer, Price, Otto, Wurzburg, Regensburg, Orr, Cronin, Legnard, Lancaster, Gavan, Wall, E. Populorum, Moxon, Rasche, Greenebaum, Knighton, Ginz, Moll, Wilkins, Taylor, Reynolds, Engel, McCormick, Hutchinson, Harrison.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Kirchner. 2d Class—Miss Hackett 3d OT.Afw—Misses Bruser, Rosing, Reinhard, Buck, Farrell, O’Connor, Julius, Saloman, Sullivan, A. Ewing. 4th Class—Misses Otto, L Semmes, Wells, Hackley, Mitchell, Purdy, Davis. 5th Class—Misses McMahon, Moxon, Simms, Edelen, Greenebaum, B'fdwn, Regensburg, C. Wathen, Halloran, McCoy, Rasche.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
2d o.Agg—Misses Loeber, Wall, Callinan, Horner. 3d Class —Misses Crummey, Feehan, Hammond, Baroux, Garrity, Barlow.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Butts, Thompson, Casey, Fox, J. Wells, Lancaster, C. Lancaster.
China Painting.
Misses L Semmes, Dessaint, A. Ewing, Zahm. oil-painting.
1st Class—Misses Neteler, Hambleton, Buck. 2d Class— Misses L Semmes, Dessaint, Killelea, C. Campbell, Gavan, Dillon, Z*hin. 3d Class—Misses English, Sullivan, Purdy, Wington, Papin, Otto, French,
.	GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Misses C. Hackett, Fitzgerald, A Ryan, Halloran, M. Simms, Rasche, Donnelly, Tallman - Murphy, Edelen, Quinn, Bruser, Walsh.
Junior Department—Misses Carter, Duncan, E. Populorum, Knighton, Gibbons, Legnard, Paquette, Jaeger, Harrison, Clafiey, Clarke, Reutlinger, Lemontey, McCloskey, A. Dillon, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Haney, Hutchinson, E. Ryan, C. Ryan.
Ornamental Needlework.—Misses 8. Wathen, Danaher, Otto, Gavan, Mitchell, Smith, Donnelly, C. Wathen, Murphy, Callinan, Orr, Populorum, Reynolds, McCormick, McCoy, Strawn, Crummey, Davis, Simms, Regensburg, Wall, Legnard, Duncan. Ginz, Casey, Halloran, Reinhard, Salomon, Horner, Pa mer, Wurzburg, Paddock. Hucheson, Gibbons, Greenebaum, Hammond, E. Populorum, Papin, Waid, Chirhart, McCloskey, Krieg, Cox, Wilkins, E. Papin, Keys, Swavze.
Plain Sewing and Dress-Making-Misses Ewing, Gordon, Wall, Sullivan, Lancaster, Winston, A. Ewing, Creig, English.
General Mending—1st Class—Misses Ewing, Gordon, Killelea, Hackett, Silverthorne, Cavenor, Ward, Ryan, Rosing, Kirchner, Loeber, Danaher, Dillon, Neu, Bischoff, Wall, Taylor, Zahm, English, Winston, McMahon, Lloyd. 2d Class—Misses Hackley, Mitchell, Reinhard, A. Ewing, Otto, Donnelly, Gall, Wells, Bruser. 3d Class—Misses C. Lancaster, G. Wathen, 8. Wathen, O’Connor, Callinan, Keena, Thompson, Cox, McFadden, Hammond, Reynolds, Moxon, A Dillon, Julius, Baroux, De Lapp.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, Ewing, Neteler, Cavanor, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Buck, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Gordon, Danaher, I. Semmes, Neu, Dillon, Usselman, Otto, Mitchell, S. Smith, Walsh, Cronin, Fitzgerald, Gall, Wells, Bischoff^ Bruser, McMahon, C. Wathen, S. Wathen, Taylor, Zahm, Campbell, Keys, Hackley, Lancaster, Simms, Dessaint, Davis, Regensburg, Greenbaum, Hammond, Horner, McFadden, Thompson. Rasche, Reinhard, Halloran, Wright, Engel, Wurzburg, Swayze, A. Smith, Edelen, McCormick, Paddock, Kreig, McCoy, par excellence. Misses McGrath, Keenan, Woodin, Ma loney, Hambleton, Rosing, Kirchner. Lloyd, Loeber, Donnelly, De Lapp, English, Julius, Palmer, O’Connor, Murphy, Price, Saloman, Baroux, Gavan, Orr, Purdy, Leydon, Cleghorn, Wall, Moxon, Tallman, Reynolds, Brown, Cox.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, Feehan, A Dillon, Fox. C. Campbell, Populorum, Van Namee, 8. Semmes, Casey, Fishburne, G. Taylor, McCloskey, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Chirhart, E. Populorum, Ginz, Paquette. Hucheson, Clarke, E. Papin, Considine, Jaeger, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Knighton, Strawn, I. Hackett, Chaves, par excellence. Misses Butts, French, E. Hackett, Crummey, McN. Garrity, Watson, Moll, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, Fleming, Duncan, Reutlinger, Legnard, Barlow, Harrisqp, Fisk, Campau.
Wanted
A QUALIFIED Teacher as Principal of an excellent School of 150 pupils; must know Music, and teach Church Choir. To begin September 1st, 1880.. Address
Bev. W. T. M. O’ROURKE, mi-3t	Middletown, OHIO.
Hotels.
THE MATTER8ON HOUSE, Corner of Was bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. AU Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Mattorsen.
Civil Engineers &> Snrvevors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civd ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering. .
RTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, lad*
640
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BOYS AND GIRLS • Three Great Cities of the West
Should ask their parents to buy for them, every week, the new Catholic picture and story paper—
It is full of Stories, Sketches, and Pictures in which boys and girls take delight. It has notes on Games and Amusements. There is something in every Number which will please every member of the family.
It can be ordered from any News Dealer. If there is any difficulty in procuring it, send a line to the publisher, P. V. HICKEY, New York.
Subscription, S3 per Year; §1.50, Six Months; §1, Four Months.
Single Copies........6 Cents.
Address
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC AMERICAN,
11 Barclay St., New York, N. Y.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Ils
Chicago, st. paul and Minneapolis line is the short line between Chicago and all pointe in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul,Minnesota, Duluth. and all points in the Great Northwest Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Ite
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freepnrt. Its CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through train<= of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets. .
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT,
Gen. Pass. Ag’L, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago,
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LODIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VTA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line -to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Chablton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager.
210 Dearborn st., near cor, of Adams, Chicago,	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	MI
t
■ t
The Lemonnier Library, EstaKished at Notre Dame in \Wl%for the uuof the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWARDS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, -A-JTD JEWELBY. All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST I
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo. Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City.Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton. Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport. Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset: Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through Une from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars are also run between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
Dining Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your "Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections bemgmade in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF
THIS great through line are as FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the LS. SM.S. and P-. Ft. W.&C. R-Rds.	„ „	„
At WASHINGTON HEIGHTS, with P., C. A St. L. R. R.
At LA SALLE, with Ill. Cent. R. R.
At Peoria, with P. P. & J.; P. D.&E-; L B.A W.; III. Mid.; andT. P. A W. Rds.
At Rock Island, with “Milwaukee A Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d & Peo. Rds, At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C. M. A St. P. R. R.
At West Liberty, with the B., C. R. A N. R. R.
At G rinnell, with Cen tral Iowa R. R.
At DES MOINES, with D. M. A F. D. R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At Omaha, with B. A Mo. R. R. R- in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with B.,C. R. A N. RA
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR-R.;WM St. L. A Pac., and C. B. AQ. R. Rds. _
At Keokuk, with Tol., Peo. A War.; Wab., St. Louis A Pac., and St. L., Keo. A N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch.. Topeka A Santa Fe; Atch. A Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pac., and Kan.
Cent. R. Rds. __ __________________
At Kansas CITY, with all lines for the West and Southwest.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA, DES MOIXES. COUNCIL BLUFFS. KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVENWORTH.
Tickets via thia Line, known as the “Great Bock Island Boute,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at yoqr home ticket office, address, _A_. KIMBALL,	E.ST.JOHN.
Gen’l Superintendent,	Gen’l Tkt. and Pam’gr^^
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
I
QUIN BUILDINGS .
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Untvebsity affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,
LAW,
MATHEM ATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notee Dame gives a more complete business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution. In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected. New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance. Catalouses, giving fall particulars, Will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very Bev. W. COBBY* C. S, C., Notre Dame P. O. Indiana.