IJear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME.
gevoiM fa the Entires is of the JUdents.
“ LABOR OWNT A VINCIT.”
Vol. II. ' UNIVEBSITY OF NOTBE DAME, IND., MABOH 27, 1869. No. 29.
Lecture on Astronomy.
THE FIRST ASTRONOMER.
[CONTINUED.]
On the next evening he looked up to the north again, and clapped his hands in delight as he saw his beautiful north star twinkle out brightly, as if to wish him joy. Then turning around to look at the moon, he was startled to see her a stone’s throw, as it were, to the east of the two bright stars where she had been the night before. Could the moon be moving to. the east among the stars? Evening after evening confirmed this bold conjecture; the moon was moving around the heavens from west to east, and he watched it until it returned to the two bright stars again. The second truth of Astronomy was discovered.
But something else was at the same time observed in regard to the moon. While it changed its place among the stars, in its movement from west to east around the earth, it also changed its form, appearing at first scarcely visible in the west after sunset, and growing larger from night to night until its whole bright face shone down upon the earth, then growing smaller and smaller until at last it was completely invisible. What an incomprehensible series of changes was this to the first awe-struck Astronomer! At first, while the moon grew larger and larger every evening, he might well fancy that it would continue to growlargerforeveruntilthe whole heavens should become one blaze of moonlight, the whole sky changed into the moon. But when the full moon began to fall away into the last quarter, and the last quarter fade into a little rim of light in the east, and disappear entirely just before sunrise, well might he look on in consternation, thinking that the beautiful moon had departed forever. This view would be apparently confirmed by the
few dark nights that would follow; but soon, lo, once more, as the sun was setting in the west the little rim of the moon is seen again, and our happy Astronomer claps his hands in excessive joy: again he sees the beautiful moon. But how to account for these changes ?
Undoubtedly the true cause soon struck his mind. The series of changes lasted just as long as it took the moon to make her circuit about the earth. For j ust one month elapsed from new moon to new moon. And, as the old moon was always last seen, before it faded away, just west of the gun in the morning, and the new moon first seen in the west, just after the sun departed in the evening, it would naturally suggest itself to his mind that there was some mysterious relation subsisting between those two great lights. The truth was but one step from that, and our Astronomer boldly stepped forward: the moon receives its light from the sun. What a sublime truth was that! Now all was made clear as noonday. The earth receives her light directly from the sun; the moon also receives her light from the sun, and, moving around in her bright curve, sheds that light down upon the earth. As one half of the earth is always lit up by the sun, so also is one half of the moon, but we can see only so much of the bright surface as is turned toward us,—when earth and sun are on the same side of the moon, then we see the full moon; when earth and sun are on opposite sides of the moon, then we see none of the moon, and call it the dark of the moon; while between those extremes we have all the other phases, increasing from darkness to light and from light to darkness.
Having thus discovered the beautiful relation sustained by the moon to the sun, it was a most natural transition made by our Astronomer to consider the latter brilliant luminary. Did the sun as well as the moon move toward the east among thestars? Thiswasamostinterestinginquiry, but one not so easily answered as in the case of the
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
226
moon. The moon could be seen among the stars: but in the presence of the radiant sun no star was suffered to shine. A method, however, was soon found to overcome the difficulty. By watching the lowest stars seen in the west just after sundown, it was soon discovered that the old stars were disappearing in the west and new ones rising in the east. Now this could only be accounted for in two ways;—by supposing that the stars were all moving west at the same rate or that the sun was moving east. The latter was the more reasonable, especially as the eastward motion of the moon had been already accounted for by supposing the stars fixed in relation to one another. But in one year a more direct confirmation of this view was obtained :—it was found that the sun had returned to the same place among the stars that it had! occupied one year previous. Here then was a stupendous discovery: the sun moves east among the stars, and passes around the whole heavens in j ust one year. ,
Our Astronomer exults in this grand truth. What thoughts crowd upon his mind! Perhaps he will now be enabled to account for the changes of the seasons,—account for the phases of the seasons, as he has already accounted for the phases of the moon. He is on fire with enthusiasm, and bends to his beautiful labors with all the ardor of his soul.
One year more passes around. As the summer approaches he notices that the sun comes farther and farther towards the north, until, near midsummer, it rises in the extreme northeast and sets in the extreme northwest, at noon being nearly overhead. Prom that day, a long day in June forever memorable, the sun recedes farther and farther towards the south, until, as mid-winter draws near, it rises as far towards the southeast and sets as far towards the southwest as it had towards the northeast and the northwest near mid-summer, six months before, while atnoon it skirted the southern horizon. From that short day in December, the sun went no farther south, but returned to the north until, at mid-summer, it was again overhead at noon as it had been a year before. It has been a year of labor for our Astronomer. He has watched the sun at noon, seen him set in the evening, and been up every morning long before that luminary rose,—always watching, watching. That is the way to become wise. Now he has his reward. He perceives that the farther north the sun rises and sets, and the higher he is at noon, the longer and warmer are the days; that is, the longer the sun
shines on the earth, and the more directly downward are his rays, the greater is the heat. From morning till noon the warmth increases, because the rays come more and more nearly perpendicular, and, mutatis mutandis, the heat diminishes by degrees from noon till night. In like manner, the heat increases from December till June, which is the high noon of the year, and decreases from June again till December, which is the midnight of the season. For the year, as well as for the day, the heat depends on the direction from which it comes, as well as the time it continues; and in each case there is gradual progress from the extreme of mid-day or mid-summer, to the extreme of mid-night or mid-winter. How beautiful, as well as merciful, is this advance from morning till noon, from December till June; and how tenderly, if mournfully, is made the downward movement from noon till night, from summer to winter! All beauty, and even life, would be destroyed were we plunged from the chill of midnight or the frost of December into the glow of nooonday and the heat of summer.
So far, our Astronomer had used no instrument but that which nature provided,—his eye. But he had now arrived at the end of nearly all the knowledge he could obtain in this way. Granting, what seemed probable, that the moving heavens was a hollow sphere turning on an axis one extremity of which was the north star, he desired to find how far the sun was at different times from this star, as he moved about daily with the other heavenly bodies.
The great circle which divided the sphere into equal parts he called the equator. This was ninety'degrees from the pole star, and the problem was to find an instrument to measure the distance of the sun from this equator in June and December, when it was farthest north and farthest south. It seems wonderful to us how this could be done, but it was very simply accomplished. Clearing off a smooth spot on the ground a few yards square, our shepherd Astronomer stuck up a stake, probably the same that he used to drive his sheep. Every day near noon he watched the shadow till it was shortest, until finally on the twenty-first of June he found it had become the shortest of the year, the sun then being the highest. At the extremity of this short shadow he struck down a little stake. Then every noon he watched the shadow grow longer and longer as the sun went farther and farther south, until, one cold day on the twenty-second of December, he found the shadow the longest possi-
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	227
ble, and here he stuck down another stake. Now two lines were tied, one from the top of the long stake to the top of each short stake. The angle of these two lines of course just measured the difference of position of the sun when farthest north and farthest south of the equator, and half this angle would be the distance of the sun from the equator itself, that is what is called the obliquity of the ecliptic, or the angle which the sun’s path, or the ecliptic, makes with the equator. It was also discovered that on the twentieth of March and twenty-second of September the shadow was of the same length, that is, on these days the sun is on the equator; in March crossing towards the north, and in September crossing towards the south, on both of which occasions the days and nights are of equal lengths, for which reasons these times are called the equinoxes, or “ equal nights.” Similar discoveries were afterwards made concerning the moon and other heavenly bodies. Such were the results obtained from the first Astronomical instrumenty-from the shepherd’s simple stake planted on the plane. This first instrument has been somewhat improved since, until it is now known to us as the sun-dial, an instrument used only for the measurement of time, though it can still be employed, as the shepherd’s stake was, to determine the obliquity of the ecliptic and the times of the equinoxes, as well as of the summer and winter solstices, when the sun stands still farthest north and farthest south of the equator.
[to be continued.]
[Revised Poems.]
VII.—Hope (A Vision)
Br Fanciullo.
I walked through a grove on a fair moon-light night
All around me was bathed in a soft flood of light, And my spirit rejoiced, with unselfish delight
In nature’s sweet virginal slumber.
A thousand sweet thoughts hurried quick through my mind And with sterner reflections most friendly combined, Forming thus a soft couch where my spirit reclined, To rest from life’s cares without number.
I sat me beneath a luxuriant tree,
While the soft summer breezes came fresh from the sea, And held ’mid the foliage a sweet jubilee;
Chanting praise to the Lord of creation.
The twinkling stars of the azure blue sky
Looked peacefully out from their dwelling on high, Nor could I their sweet invitation defy
So I sank into deep meditation.
I reflected on time and the great game of life,
Where virtue and vice vie in desperate strife,
And death stands anear with invisible knife, To sever the thread of existence.
Then our poor human nature with tottering pace, . With care-wrinkled brow and emaciate face, Passed along bearing visible many a trace
Of its weakness and need of assistance.
Now a voice from afar struck my listening ear, And its cold grating tones made me tremble with fear, “ Think not, foolish mortal, you can persevere .
In a path which so lew walk untainted;
For God has implanted deep passions in man, And His justice forbids Him to alter His plan, So these passions have rnled since creation began, And prevented weak man from being sainted.”
My nature succumbed neath the terrible blow,
And I sank on the grass which now chilled like the snow, While the blood through my trembling heart ceased to flow, And my soul was most wretched, forsaken.
But 3 soft gentle hand came with sweet snccornow, And tenderly bathed my pale bloodless brow, And a mild soothing voice^did my spirit endow
With a courage no more to be shaken.
My eyes slowly opened from darkness intense, And I gazed on the moonlight in wildered suspense, But what was my pleasure on learning from whence
Came that voice to my heart so consoling 1 By my side knelt a maiden of beauty divine, In her soul had bright virtue established her shrine, And in worship I fain to the earth would incline
To this maid with my sorrows condoling.
But I feared to oflend my sweet comfortress fair, Yet my heart bowed in silence to beauty so rare, And worlds would I give could I e’er hope to share
The bliss of her constant society.
With this purpose in mind, I addressed the sweet maid: ‘01 blessed be the hand which so gently was laid Ou this pain-stricken brow; and thy voice whose kind aid
Freed my soul from most dreadful anxiety!
01 leave me not now, thou support of my soul, Thou alone canst in sorrow my sad heart console, And save me from wreck on despair’s treacherous shoal, When thoughts of the future awaken.”
“ I will stay,” she replied, “ yet you’ll see not my face,— I am Hope, come on earth to restore man to peace, And the clouds of despair from his mind to efface
When his soul ’neath their burden is shaken.	.
‘‘ Now look” sho went on “o’er this fair moonlight scene, Where all nature is clothed in soft beauty serene, Thy God has imparted this beautiful mien
To inspire men with trust firm, confiding.”
Then she. pointed above, and, 01 wonder most great!
We stood side by side near eternity’s gate, And man’s d°adliest foes, with expressions of hate, Stood the passage between us dividing.
God then stretched forth his hand and a barrier arose Between weak, fallen man and his hell-armed foes, And despair’s sable clouds became white as the snows, And the path was again bright and cheering.
Again the sweet voice of the lovely maid fell On my ears, like the tones of a blithe marriage bell; “ In future all doubt in God’s goodness dispel,
For his mercy deserves but revering. ”
Then she soared far away and I sat ’neath the tree, While peace and contentment again made me free, Nor thought I how quick joyous moments will flee, Till the old Abbey clock struck eleven.
Now you, who are haunted with thoughts of despair, Go forth in the grove when the moonlight is there, And think on the evils to which you are heir,
Yet trust in the mercy of heaven.	•
228	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
College Bulletin. '
Tables of Honor, March 12.
Senior Department.
D. A. Clarke, H. C. Allen, M. Dupuis, C. Sage, J. Grier, L. G. Dunavan, J. McGlynn, F. P. Wood, H. Wrape, H. Strawn.
Junior Department.
J. Coppinger, E. Bahm, J. Alber, F. Dwyer, P. Cochrane, W. Rowan, J. Mulhall, H. Beakey, J. Rumely, J. Klein, J. Nash,
March, 19.
Senior Department.
A. Arrington, W. Bird, L. G. Dupler, H. Schnelker, C. H. Ilgenfritz, F. Crapser, A. Menard, W. P. Rhodes, E. George, H. C. Barlow.
Junior Department.
G. McCartney, D. Wile, G. Combs, J. McGuire, J. Ward, J. Johnson, A. Cable, E. Lafferty, F. Curtis, R. Echlin, A. Wile.
' Minim Department.
W. Emmonds, J. Bennett, H. Jones, S. Beaubien, G. Gross, H. Fear.
Honorable Mention.
Greek.
First Class: W. Walker, W. McClain, James O’Reilly.
Second Class: J. Cunnea, M. Mahony, James McClain.
Third Class : J. E. Garrity, W. Waldo, Thomas Johnson, J. McHughf
Latin.
First Class: Jas. Curran, Jas. Cunnea, James O’Reilly, W. P. McClain.
Second Class: W. Walker, J. P. Rogers, Wm. Waldo, R. McCarthy, P. McKeon, G. Atkinson, D. Tighe.
Third Class: A.. Arrington, J. jjj. Garrity, Jas. F. Edwards, J. McClain, M. Mahony.
Fourth Class, Translation: J. Dickinson, A. Reilly, J. Zahm, J. Staley.
Theme : A. Reilly, J. Zahm, J. Dickinson, H. P. Morancy, J. Fleming, F. Ingersoll, J. Shannahan.
Fifth Class : William B. Clarke, D. Eagan, E. B. Gambee, P. Cochrane, J. McGlynn, F. Dwyer, J. P. Kane.
Sixth Latin: J. Eisenman, D. Wile, D. Hogan, M. Carney.
Seventh Latin, 1st Div: P. Tinan, Jas. Ward, L. B. Logan, T. Rodman, V. Hackmann, W. C. Lence.	'
Seventh Latin, 2d Div : Geo. Hackett, J. McGea-rin, R. Akin, C. Stuart, C. Menaugh, R. B. Coddington, Thos. Dillon, Jas. Carroll, H. O'Neill, F. Bulger, L. Hayes, Geo. McCartney, C. O’Neill.
All the Senior members of this Class deserve special mention for their great diligence and close application.
French.
First Class : H. P. Morancy, A. W. Arrington, F. Dwyer.
Second Class: James Curran, William Walker.
Third Class: V. Hackmann, F. Bulger, J. Orb.
Fourth Class : E. Hay del, C. Campau.
German.
First Class : W. Walker, J. P. Rogers, J. Wilson, J. Garharstein, A. B. Whyte, H. B. Keeler, W. P. Rhodes, P. Cochran.
Second Class : F. Crapser, L. G. Dupler, Dennis Clarke, R. L. Akin, L. Wilson, G. Atkinson, H. Wrape, J. W. Mongomery, H. C. Allen.
Third Class, 2d Div.: J. E. Garrity, E. Bahm.
Third Class : R. B. Coddington, D. Fitzgerald, A. Combs, J. S. Gavitt, A. S. Beverly, P. Walter, E. C. Sage, J. Harrison, F. Curtis.
First Class, Jr.: J. Eisenman, A. Wile, A. Hemsteger, H. and G. Hug, J. Rumely, L. Trumpff, H. Brekweg.
Second Class, Jr. : For Translation and Theme— R. W. Staley, J. McGuire, J. D. Kline, C. Duffy, N. Mitchel, W. Wilstach.
Third Class, Jr.: J. Falley, D. Egan, D. Ber-dell, C. Hutchings, J. Ward.
Third Class, Jr., 2d Div.: A. Cable, N. Doherty, C. Walker, F. Ford, H. Obert, R. Delehay.
Fourth Class, Jr.: Joseph Fleury, W. Nelson, F. Spencer, J. Langerderfer, J. Miller, K. J. Esby, G. Shoefer, W. Bowan, H. Potter, R. Beygah, S. Hoover.
From last week—Omitted through want of space:
First Grammar and Composition.
Composition: E. Bahm, P. Rhodes, J. Vocke, J. Deehan, E. Gambee, L. G. Dupler, J. M. Duffy, L. Schmeider, H. H. Schnelker, D. Fitzgerald, W. C. Lence, D. J. Diemer, A. Menard, B. McGinnis.
Letter- Writing : A H. Murphy, D. J. Diemer, J. Vocke, P. Rhodes, A. H. Menard, J. Broderick, J. W. O’Brien, L. G. Dupler, M. S. Ryan, H.
1
- II II	V«liB
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
229
Beakey, W. M. Bird, J. M. Duffy, L. Schmeider, J. Garhartstine.
Grammar and Analysis : L. G. Dupler, E. B. Gambee, D. J. Diemer, J. Vocke, J. M. Duffy, J. Garharstiue, H. C. Leuce, A. H. Menard, D. Fitzgerald, H. H. Schnelker, W. M. Bird, L. Schmeider, E. Bahm, J. Broderick, M. McGinnis, M. Dupuis, P. Rhodes.
Reading.
First Class: C. Stuart, W. H. Sangster, James McGlynn, L. Gaynor, D. E. Dechant, P. Walter, L. Dunavan, E. McDonough, ■ H. Johnson, J. C. Lacey, E. O. George, G. Chane, P. Garrity, P. Dupuis, H. Schnelker, A. Juiff.
Honorable Mention, Minim Department.
Arithmetic.
First Class: E. Haydel, H. Jones, G. Jenkins, G. Lyons, E. Lyons, F. Obert, G. Trussell.
Second Class; G. Berry, W. Byrne, G. Gross, C. Jenkins, H. Trentman, H. Vorhees. ' .
Third Class: J. Bennett, E. De Groot, E. Dwyer, H. Fear, L. Mierhoffer, A. Trumpff.
Fourt Class : J. Wilson, A. Cressner, J. McDermott.
Honorable Mentions for next week will be made in the following Classes: Astronomy, Ca-culus, Analytical Geometry, Trigonometry, Geometry, Algebra, Arithmetic and Book-keeping.
Saint Patrick’s Day.
In the last number of The Scholastic Year appeared the programme of the entertainment given by the Philharmonic and Thespian Socei-ties, in celebration of the festival of St. Pairick’s Day, and it remains for us to offer but a few remarks concerning the performances constituting that entertainment.
After the usual introductory pieces by the Band and Orchestra came the opening chorus, entitled “ On, Gallant Company!” by the Philharmonics. This chorus was executed with much spirit and was sung smoothly, evenly and correctly throughout, with one exception, where we noticed during a modulation the parts were a little unsteady; however it was not generally noticeable. The song by Mr. W. P. Rhodes was all that it could be, if we may judge by the hearty encore which he received. Mr. J. M. Moriarty’s comic solo was rendered doubly interesting by the graceful ac
tions with which he illustrated the sentiment. The duet from “Lucrezia Borgia,” sung by Messrs S. Corby and J. O’Reilly, was well received, as well on account of its contrast with the other songs as the agreeable manner in which it was rendered by these young gentlemen. Mr. H. P. Morancy gave us a very humorous song interspersed with tragic recitations. His voice was full and mellow, although it now and then gave some indications of timidity. Mr. M. S. Ryan, with his usual ease upon the stage, and freedom from restraint, was vociferously eneored, which is the best proof of his success. As a final to the first part of the programme, the chorus, “ Artillerist’s Oath,” was given with its best effect. The high notes, so lustly sustained by the First Tenors, seemed to fill the hall to repletion; and the other parts, equally well sustained and balanced, added to the decided effect produced by the chorus.
After this came the oration of the day, delivered by Mr. J. Shannahan. This oration was one of the finest compostions we have had the pleasure of hearing since we have been at Notre Dame. The subject was handled in a most masterly and delicate manner. The speaker carefully refrained from anything which might wound the feelings of any one in his audience, and gave Ireland, his native country, the highest possible praise, by showing clearly that its mission was to christianize the world, and that when this holy mission shall have been acomplished, then, and not until then, will Ireland be free. Mr. 8. Shannahan, as a writer, is scarcely excelled by any student at Notre Dame—his only fault arising from a lack of confidence, which can easily be remedied.
The Thespians, we understand, would have given us something new, if, after the petition to celebrate the day had come in, there had been sufficient time for preparation; as it was, they treated us to a repetition of “ The Ghost.” At this rendition the parts were much better sustained than they were on the 13th of last October. Mr. M. S. Ryan, in his personation of three characters, managed his voice and action with his customary admirable effect, thereby showing a very good conception of the different roles he presented. “ Honest Plump’s” repetition for honesty suffered considerably in the hands of Mr. A. B. White, so naturally was the character represented. Mr. White’s distinctness of articulation is worthy of special mention. “ Blinde” (the conscientious magistrate) was conscientiously personified in Mr. H. B. Keeler’s conception of
230	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
that public functionary, who never could “ see as clearly” as Mr. Keeler himself. Mr. James O’Reilly, as “Wilde, Jr., gave us a much better idea of what could be made of the character, as he brought before us a better voice and much better acting than on the previous representation. Mr. J. M. Moriarty {Gouvernet) seemed to throw himself enthusiastically into his part, and seemed very much in earnest. Mr. Wm. Rhodes {Tom) merits much commendation for his acting: his fund of variety and compass of voice having been well brought out in the earnestness with which he entered into the spirit of his character. Mr. James Wilson {Georye), “ who was not afraid of ghosts,” lost his reputation after seeing but one, so naturally did Mr. Wilson portray the feelings of that valiant youth. Mr. J. S. Gavitt as (“ Crier of the Star"), showed a decided originality, both in his “ make-up” and the variety of his telegraphic dispatches. Though the whole was a success, the severe critic might find many places where improvements could be suggested ; such as the employment of different voices; different qualities of voice; more variety; force and emphasis more judiciously employed, and action more appropriate to the sentiment expressed. But if all these were already known, and used to the best advantage, the object for which the members joined the society would not be their own improvement.
For the pleasure of the evening’s entertainment we feel much indebted to Prof. M. T. Corby, the Philharmonics and the Thespians, and hope they will make their appearance often if sufficient time can be spared from other employments.
Indeed they well deserved the oyster supper to which the authorities had the kindness to extend them an invitation, and which they responded to with the usual alacrity.	A.
. United Scientific Association.
The Scientific Association held a meeting Tuesday, the 22d inst. The regular business of the meeting being concluded, a member of the Association called the attention of the House to a certain challenge of a certain Society of the University, published in The Scholastic Yeah. Thereupon the Rev. Director positively refused to take notice of such a challenge for evident reasons. He however remarked that if the other members were so inclined they might call a meeting and
take on the subject whatever action they would think suitable. The regular meeting being adjourned, the Rev. Director withdrew. Immediately after, the members present were again called to order. A motion was made and adopted, to consider the challenge proposed to the United Scientific Association. This challenge became the subject of some lively remarks, but no serious action was taken upon it excepting the appointment of a Committee to further consider the matter.	.
J. A. Dickinson, Hec. Sec.
We have received the Report of the Committee appointed by the United Scientific Association, in reply to the challenge of the St. Edward’s Literary Association. But—as we did not intend to open the pages of our weekly to literary squabbles and society wranglings—since the challenge was published we have had reasons to regret it, and therefore think it our duty to lay the Committee Report aside..
We have received no tidings from the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society, and congratulate them on their good sense in minding their own business.
Each of our Literary Societies has its moral worth and respectability, and these being once firmly established preclude all chance to mere sayings or boastings from harming in the least or lowering the character which has been fairly won. Why therefore should some get uneasy or nervous, and call others to account because their temper has been ruffled ?—Gatta furiosa fa figli ciechi.
The Elocutionary Exercises on Saturday East.
Prof. Griffith’s Farewell Exhibition, as announced in our last, took place at 4 p. m. in Washington Hall, on the evening of Saturday, March 20th. Prof. O’Neill’s Notre Dame Cornet Band, and the Orchestra, under the efficient direction of Prof Girac, were in attendance, and by their harmonious strains contributed much to the entertainment. The Elocutionary Exercises, considering the brief term for which the Professor’s instructions have been given, turned out very fair; it was noticed, however, that those who succeeded best were the same that had made elocution the subject of study during former
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR
231
years. The “new brooms” did not “sweep clean” —although there is an old proverb in their favor. The opening recitation, “Eulogy on Gen. W. T. Sherman,” by Mr. J. Coppinger, was originally intended for another, whose defection Mr. Coppinger was called upon to supply rather suddenly. Mr. William Walker’s recitation, Patrick Henry’s celebrated speech for “Liberty or Death,” was characterized by that sound patriotic feeling, correctness of tone and gesture, and dignity of deportment, which those who know Mr. Walker would naturally expect from him. Mr. James Cunnea’s “Sculptor Boy” was well done. Of Mr. J. Dickinson’s “ Socrates Snooks ” we will say that it was personated admirably, and vras well chosen to show forth the peculiar comic vein of the declaimer. Mr. Ewing’s “ Ode to Sleep” put us in mind of old times, when his appearances on our stage were much more frequent than latterly. Mr. Gavittgave “Political Pausing” with judicial solemnity. Mr. Fleming’s “Rum Maniac” was very fine, but -we really do wish that “Maniacs” were less in fashion as Elocutionary Exercises. They leave an impression afterwards which has nothing of the sublimity of tragedy—it is simply horrible. Mr. Garrity had taken too heavy a piece for the short time he had to prepare it. We know he is capable of much better things. Among the Juniors, Master J. McHugh’s pantomime accompaniment of “ Hohenlinden ” was quite a nice thing for all who are tired of the serious view of that celebrated poem. Master Clarke had another “Maniac”—a female one—to which he did such justice as maniacs deserve. His gestures were truly graceful. Mr. Deehan appeared as “ Paddy Dunbar ”—in character, and did very well. Mr. Staley gave the “Frenchman and the Flea Powder,” and rather overdid it, but “ brought down the house ”—of course. “ Brutus’ Oration on Caesar,” by Mr. D. J. Wile, was declared by a good judge to be one of the best pieces of the evening. Mr. Charles Burdell appeared in two pieces, first in the “ Union ” and then in the “ Parody on Hohenlinden.” This young gentleman’s voice is excellent, and susceptible of high culture. His declamations uniformly give pleasure, and these last were no exception. “The American Union,” by Mr. R. McCarthy, showed great improvement. With practice he will make a senator. The “Flag of Freedom',” by Harold Hayes, the “ Burial of Moor,” by H. O’Neill, “Marco Bozzaris,” by Lewis Hayes, and the “Seminole’s Reply,” by Henry Green, were admirably done, each in its own appropriate
style. The “ Rival Orators ”—Messrs P. J. O’Connell and T. Arrington—was an excellently executed dialogue, and created a great deal of merriment. “New England,” by Mr. George McCartney, must take a very high rank among the recitations of the evening, both for voice and gesture. Master Mahony kept up his reputation in his “Henry Clay’s Ambition;” and a “Funny Accident,” by George Combs, was so well impersonated that we must say we scarcely thought the old story could have such a good face put upon it. In the sentimental style, Messrs F. Dwyer and C. Hutchings appeared to good advantage. As for the others mentioned in the programme, they will no doubt do better next time. Some of them, as Master Mark Foote, were prevented by slight indisposition from speaking at all.
Prof. Griffith closed the exercises by declamations in his usual masterly style, comprising selections from both serious and comic sources. After he had taken his seat, amidst rounds of applause, Mr. Walker appeared on behalf of the students of the University, and read him a complimentary address, expressing sentiments at which the Professor appeared very much affected. . Prof. Griffith’s stay this year was briefer than usual, owing to the fact that Notre Dame is getting yearly to depend more and more on her home elocutionists, and the Professor’s engagements are calling him more urgentlv elsewhere. Still, our students have done well to avail themselves with so great assiduity of the short time he can place at their disposal, inasmuch as it has not interfered with their other important studies. Prof. Griffith has promised to nay us another visit in June.
‘	D.
Qui Vive.—No 3, Vol III, of this interesting college paper has been received. It is usually filled with a choice variety of reading matter, interesting to all those who give attention to college affairs. We arealways glad to see the Qui Vive.
Mbs. Partington Alarmed.—“Dear Mother: I take up my pen to write these few lines to let you know that I have joined the Yellow-Q-tion Class and have got the falling infliction on the brain.”
The effect of the above paragraph, in Ike’s last letter, on the maternal solicitude of Mrs. P., may be better imagined than described. She is not expected.
232	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
^AINT ^ARY'S JUaDENIY,
St. M arv’s, March 23d, 1869.
Arrivals.
March 21st.—Miss M. Rullman, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Table of Honor, Sr.
Misses K. Cunnea, J. Hynds, M. Carraher, A. Mulhall, E. Ruger, M. Claffey, A. Bryson, M. Dillon, E. Seiler, M. Foote, HL Tuberty.
. Honorable Mention, Sr.
Graduating Glass.—Misses K. Livingston, A. Ewing, E. Crouch, M. Twoomey.
First Senior Class.—Misses D. J. Carmody, A. Cunnea, E. Kirwin, M. Morrill, E. McManaman, E. Ewing, M. Alexander, A. Mulhall, M. Walton, F. Grimes, J. Dobson.
Second Senior Class.—Misses M. Edwards, S. Thomson, C. Foote, L. English, N. Leoni, E. Carr, N. Wilder, L. Chouteau, W. Corby, T. Vanhorn, K. Armstrong, H. Neil, E. Rogers, E Livingston, L. Leoni, A. Walker, HI. Kirwin, R. Tucker.
Third Senior Glass.—Misses E. Williams, M. Shirland, S. Beebe, T. Stevens, E. Hill, L. Marshall*
First Preparatory.—Misses A. Mast, S. O’Brien, M. Foote, E. Darst, M. Lassen, J. Lonergan, E. Lonergan, L. Burnett, E. Henry.
Second Preparatory.—Misses H. Sprochnle, K. O’Toole, J. Davis, M. Clune, K. Zell, M. Vanhorn, M. Minor, N. Greer.
Third Prepartory.—Misses R. Hoerber, M. Coffey, J. Davis, A. Dingers, J. Kent, E. Whitefield, E. Spillard, R. Fox, C. Hoerber.
Instrumental Music.
Piano.—First Class.—Misses K. Young, J. Hynds. Second Div.—Misses A. Mulhall, K. Livingston. Second Glass.—Misses M. Walton, C. Heckman. Second Div.—Misses N. Burridge, E. Plamondon. Third Glass.—Misses M. Lassen, R. Rittig, N. Greer. Second Div.—Misses M. Vanhorn, E. Livingston. Fourth Glass.—Misses K. Medille, B. Meyers, M. Rumely. Second Div.— Misses E. Ritter, N. Simmes, E. Lindsay. Fifth Class.—Misses A. Dingers, M. Bader, E. Hill.
Second Div.—K. Armstrong, A. Mast, M. Cochrane. Sixth Class.—Misses E. Seiler, L. LeBrash, N. Sherburn, C. Robson, L. Byers, J. Davis. Second Div.—Misses A. Clarke. Seventh Class.— U. Gill, L. Marshall. Eighth Glass.—Misses N. Gross, M. Gildersleeve, R. Leoni, L. Kent.
Harp.—Miss M. Shirland. -
Organ.—Miss A. Walker.
Guitar.—Misses N. Tabor, L. English, K. Moore.
Vocal Music.
Misses K. Medille, R. Swineheart J. Hynds, M. Shsrland, L. English, M. Rumely C. Hoerber, A. Walker, N. Wilder M. Walton, R. Rettig, L. Chamberlain.
Drawing.
Misses Alexander and L. Chamberlain, A. Carpenter, C. Heckman, E. Carr, M. Lasson, E. Kirwan, E. Ritter, K. Robinson.
French.
First Class.—Misses A. Carmody, Z. Selby.
Second Class.—Misses A. Walker, J. Hynds, M. Shirland, M. Alexander, EL Young, M. Carraher, K. Carpenter.
Second Div.—Misses H Neil, M. Tuberty, A. Cunnea.
Third Glass.—Misses N. Leoni, K. Cunnea.
German.
Second Class.—Misses E. Henry, L. McManaman.
Table of Honor, Jr.
Misses M. Letourneau, L. McFarland, M. and S. Hoover, L. Thomson, A. Woods, N. Gross, M. Bader, A. Garrity, N. Strieby, M. Gildersleeve, B. Wilson.
. Honorable Mention.
Second Preparatory Class.—Misses A. Clarke, L.
Jones,-R. Leoni, M. Durant, L. Neil.
Third Preparatory Class.—Misses L. James, B.
Meyers, J. Walton, M. O’Meara.
First Class Jr.—Misses B. Frensdorf, M. Roberts, M. and E. Price, J. Byrns.
Second Class Jr.—Misses B. Henry, K. Forman.