I

Disco quasi semper 5’icturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 22, 1881.	Number 7.
A Tribute to Departed Worth.
What though no marble marks thy place of sleep To tell the stranger passenger thy name,
Yet o’er thy grave will widowed friendship weep, And pay the tribute which thy virtues claim.
For thou wert gentle, generous, and kind,— Thou hadst a heart to sympathize with woe;
In thy warm breast true honor was enshrined, And virtue, too, which blesses all below.
Fair genius, too, shed o’er thy gifted mind Its’bright’ning gems to gild thy youthful name;
And learning’s lamp above thy pathway shined, To light thee on to knowledge and to fame.
Such was thy promise when the spoiler came, And called thee hence to moulder in the tomb ;
Alas! his dart, with too unerring aim, Did crush the fiow’r ere it had time to bloom.
But though on earth thy star is set, we trust It brightly shines where tempests never come;
Where treasures are -which never fade nor rust, And where the pilgrim finds a happy home.
———* -♦----------------- «
Botany.
BY N. S. MITCHELL.
The subjects of which natural history treats are divided into three departments, or kingdoms, as they are generally called: the mineral,vegetable, and animal. These kingdoms are composed respectively of inorganic or unorganized beings, so called because they are not formed of organs or parts that relate to one another, and go to make up the whole of organized beings which are destitute of voluntary motion, and organized beings, endowed with sensation and voluntary motion. Each of these kingdoms has its respective attractions and beauties for the lover of nature; but none, we believe, in a higher degree than the one which our feeble pen vainly tries to describe, viz.: the vegetable kingdom. What can we find better fitted to awaken the admiration of man than the works of an all-perfect God ? And where can we find these works in a simpler, yet still a grand form, if notin nature? Nature, as the handi-work of God, whois all perfection, cannot on this account be imperfect. Therefore, it is in nature that we behold the handiwork of the great Author of the universe, endowed with all the beauty He chose to bestow upon it.
Botany, the science which treats of the vegetable kingdom in general, is divided into several departments which treat of the various modes of studying plant-life. The
first in order, and the one with which the study of botany should begin, both because in it lies the foundation of all the rest, and because it gives a knowledge of plants which every one should possess, is called Physiological Botany. This consists in the study of the form and structure of the organs of plants and the manner in which these organs perform their various functions, together with the way they grow and live. The next department is called Systematic Botany, and this consists in the study of plants as to their kinds. The other departments are Geographical Botany, which treats of the distribution of plants over the earth’s surface, and Fossil Botany, which relates to the remains of the vegetation of former times found entombed in the crust of the earth. There are also other departments of botany which treat of the uses of plants to man.
All plants are constructed on one and the same general plan. This at first may seem almost impossible; for where is the similarity existing between the majestic oak, rearing its lofty head above the surrounding trees of its native forest, and the lowly weed that grows at its foot ? It certainly seems hard at first to determine the similarity between these members of the vegetable kingdom so very different in form. However, when we consider that each grew from the seed produced by a being of the same nature as itself, which being transmitted to the earth, after gaining life, and there obtaining all the requisites for growing and becoming a being like the present, the difference begins to decrease, and we come to the conclusion that a similarity does exist in this case. Such a similarity exists in all plants; therefore, what is true in a general way of any ordinary vegetable will be found true in all, with, however, a great variation in the details. It matters not what plant we take and follow through life, from the time of germination to the decay and death, or to the age of bearing fruit, which is sufficient for oar purpose, as the circle is there completed, and we are brought to the starting point, namely the growth from the seed.
The first appearance of a plant after the seed has been transmitted to the earth is generally a pair of green leaves called colytedons, or seed leaves, which differ in various plants, both as to the number and form; those having only a single colytedon are called monocolytedonous; two, always opposite each other, discolytedonous; and many arranged in a whorl, polycolytedonous. In some places the colytedons are thick and large, while in others they are entirely the reverse. These leaves are borne upon a tiny stem called the radicle. At the lower extremity of this stemlet a root shoots forth which grows in an opposite direction to the stem, plunging deeper and deeper into the earth from which it obtains nourishment for the sustenance of the plant, and also serves to fix it strongly in the ground. Soon after the plant has reached this stage of de
88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
velopment, a little bud, called the Plumule, appears at the upper end of the stem, above the colytedons, which soon becomes a second joint or stem, bearing other leaves, re. sembling those borue by the plant from which it was produced by the order of nature. We now have the whole plant root, stem and leaves, as it appears soon after coming forth from the seed, but ho v was it formed in the seed, or did it there exist ready formed before the time of germination? This may be decided by inspecting a sound seed, which often requires a microscope in the operation, wherein may be found the little plant ready formed snugly coiled up in the seed-coat. This rudimentary plantlet is called the Embryo, which after the time of germination continues to grow in opposite directions, the stem continuing to repeat itself upwardly by means of successive joints, and the root pushing itself deeper and deeper into the soil, until the plant has completed its growth and fulfilled its natural destiny. Thus far we have seen how plants grow from the seed and develop their different parts, viz.: the root, the stem, and the leaves; now to consider these parts separately, and see of what service they are to the plant.
The simple primary root, which many plants send down from’ the embryo, forms what is called a main or tap root. Sometimes this root is continued throughout the whole life, sending out only side-branches or rootlets, but it often divides off very soon and is lost in the branches. All plants, however, do not have a simple primary root, but several start at once from the embryo, and in place of one root, form a bundle or cluster; such are called fascicled roots. Thus we see that roots are divided into two kinds: namely, those consisting of one main or top root, and those without any main root. These are again divided into several classes according to their forms, as bulbous, tuberous, fibrous, spindle, etc. Besides the primary roots there are others called secondary roots, which spring from other parts of the stem than the lower end, when situated for it; that is. when covered by soil. This is most common in creeping plants, which often strike root from almost every joint; but it is not confined to such alone, as in many instances these secondary roots spring from the branches of trees, as in the Banyan of India and some fig-trees. Such roots are called aerial roots, and are mostly found in warmer and damper climates than ours.
The functions of the root, besides serving to fix the plant, is to absorb moisture and nourishment from the earth, sufficient for the maintenance of the whole structure. The growth of the stem from the seed is by a succession of joints, each of which bears a leaf or leaves, according to the manner in which the leaves are distributed along the stem. This part of the plnat is variously formed, and differs in regard to size and duration in almost all species of plants, and it is by these differences that they are divided into herbs, shrubs and trees. It is herbaceous when it dies down to the ground every year after blossoming; suffrutis-cent, when the base is inclined to be woody and live from year to year; suffruticose, when the lower stem is woody but herbaceous above; fruticose, or shrubby, when of considerable size and woody, living from year to year; arborescent, when tree-like, and approaching a tree in size; and arboreous, when forming a proper tree trunk. Stems are said to be caulescent when they rise above the ground; and when there is no evident stem but only leaf or flower stalks it is said to be acaulescent, or stemless, as is the case in the violet, beet, carrot, etc., but in the latter only for the first
season. According to their manner of growing, stems are diffuse, declined, decumbent, assurgent, creeping, procumbent, scandent and voluble. The stem of grasses is called a culm. Branches are repetitions of the main stem, consisting of the same parts and growing in the same way. They grow from buds which regularly appear in the axils of the leaves, and as the leaves are symmetrically arranged on the stem, the buds and branches which they after wards become, necessarily partake of this symmetry. The stem or trunk continues to grow in length by the continual evolution of terminal bud. Buds that appear at the side of the stem are called lateral buds, of which there are various kinds: as axillary, when situated in the axils of the leaves; accessory, when more than the ordinary axillary bud occurs; adventitious, when they occur without order and on almost any part of the plant; and naked, latent, leaf and flower buds. This brings us to a new division of our subject: namely, the leaves. This portion of a plant, which differs much in variety and elegance of form, consists of an immense number of fibres, or nerves, which are divided into two sets, one belonging to each surface. They serve to nourish and prepare the buds of future shoots, which, as before stated, are joined at the base of the leaf-stalk; and to shade the fruit, which, from the powerful heat of the sun, would be dried up, and prevented from coming to maturity. The surface of leaves, being full of minute pores or holes, serve to imbibe air, dew, etc., for the growth of the plants; and also to expose the sap, which is received from the other parts of the plant, to the action of the air. In this respect, the leaves are to the plant what the lungs are to animals. A complete leaf consists of a blade or expanded portion; a petiole or leaf stalk, and a pair of stipules, or small appendages at each side of the base of the petiole. The blade consists of two sorts of material: the green pulp or parenchyma; the fibrous framework or skeleton, which serves to support the green pulp, and gives strength and firmness to the leaf. The sir-face is covered with a transparent skin, called the epidermis. The frame-work of the leaf consists of a fibrous and tongh material, which runs throughout the blade in various ways, according to the nature of the leaf, i. e., the manner of venation. These fibres form into bundles and spread out in a horizontal direction, to form the ribs and veins of of the blade. The venation of a leaf corresponds with its general shape and with the manner of division when the blade is lobed or divided. It is reduced to two principal kinds: parallel and netted venation. In parallel-veined leaves, the whole frame-work consists of slender ribs, or veins, running parallel,- or nearly so, with each other from the base to the tip of the blade; while in netted-veined leaves the veins branch off from the main rib or ribs, if more than one, and unite with one another so as to form a sort of net-work. By a mere glance at the leaves of a tree or herb we are enabled to tell what the structure of the embryo is, for all parallel-veined leaves belong to plants having but one colytedon, and those having netted-veined leaves, to plants which have a pair of colytedons. This is of great convenience in determining a plant as it enables us to refer our specimen to one or the other of the grand classes of Phanerogamous or flower-bearing plants, if it happens to be a flowering plant. Of parallel-veined leaves we have two sorts: one, and the commonest, having the ribs al! running from the base to the point of the leaf, while in the other they run from a mid-rib to the margin. Netted-veined leaves are also of two sorts: one having the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
89

veins all rising from a single rib (mid-rib), called feather-veined leaves; and the other having three, five, seven, etc., . ribs, from which the veins branch off; these are called palmately or radiate veined leaves. According to general cutline, leaves are divided into many kinds which our space will not permit us to say much about. They are either simple or compound, as the blade consists of only one or of two or more separate pieces. Between these two almost every intermediate gradation is to be met with. Simple leaves are. entire, serrate, dentate, crenate, repand, sinuate, incised, lobed, cleft, parted, and divided. Com pound leaves consist of two or more simple leaflets, each usually with a stalk of its own; these leaflets do not differ in any absolute way from the form of simple leaves. All leaves, however, have not a leaf-stalk, or petiole, but appear to sit on the stem by the base of the blade; such leaves are called sessile. Leaves in which the stem appears to run through the blade are called perfoliate leaves. Leaves, according to the manner they are arranged on the stem, are either alternate, opposite, or whole, and only one leaf is ever produced from the same joint.
Thus far, we have considered the vegetation of the plant, and those parts, viz., root, stem and leaves, by which it increases in s’ze and extent, and serves the purpose of its individual life; but now other parts come into view, subservient to a different purpose, viz.: the flower, fruit and seed. They are the organs for the continuance of the species. Inflorescence is the mode of flowering, or the situation and arrangement of flowers on a plant. This arrangement, though it may seem to be various, is governed by a simple law, easily understood. Flowers are either terminal or axillary. As in vegetation we have only terminal and axillary buds, so it is in flowering. Flowers consist of a calix or outer form, and an inner and generally more showy part, the corolla; one of these is often wanting. Each leaf of the corolla is called a petal, and each of the calix a sepal. The other parts of the flower are the stamens, or fertilizing organs, and pistils, or seed-bearing organs. A stamen consists of two parts: the Filament, and Anther; the latter is the essential part. The pistil consists of three parts: the Ovary or seed-pod, S’yle, and Stigma. It is on the stigma that the pollen or fertilizing matter falls, and changes the ovules contained in the ovary into seeds, like the one from which the plant grew. Thus we see how plants grow, and how they are constructed so as to reproduce their kind.	•
Art, Music, and Liter taure.
—Gaboriau’s tales of mystery and murder are said to be the favorite reading of Prince Bismarck.
—John Bull sneers at our naw, but he is probably not aware that we can turn out 15,000 brass bands at the very first hint of foreign invasion.
—The editor of a country paper remarks that half the people who attend musical entertainments in his town “ don’t know the difference between a sj mphony and a sardine.”
—Mr. Richard Grant White denies the story that he has been engaged for over fifty years in collecting material for his forthcoming history of music in America. He had no thought of writing it until a short time ago. The history will cover a period of something over fifty years, and the transposition of this fact probably led to the error.
—Edwin Arnold, the author, is forty-nine years old. He was principal of the Government Sanscrit College, Rt Poona, in the Bombay Presidency. He joined the edi
torial staff of the London Daily Telegraph in 1861. He is a companion of the Star of India. His father was a Sussex magistrate. His brother, Arthur Arnold, a traveller in the East, was editor of Echo.
—The Athenaum says: “The press is now pouring forth a flood of so-called poetry which is something less than a weak dilution of the poetry of Mr. Swinburne, Mr, Rossetti, and those who immediately followed them. It has at last reached the stage when the poet’s quest is little more than that of discovering a line by one poet which will rhyme with a line by another, and joining them. And the marvel is that the public seem to prefer the mockingbird to the defrauded singer whose note has been stolen and burlesqued.” *
—A copy of the first piece of music ever published by Mozart was recently found in the Conservatory Library of Paris. Its title is “Sonates pour le Clavecin qui peu-vent se jouer avec 1’Accompagnement de Violin, dediees & Madame Victoire de France, par T G. Wolfgang Mozart, de Sa'zbourg, age de sept ans; ouvre premier. Gravees par Mme. Vendome, ci-devant rue Saint Jacques & present rue Saint Honore a Paris, aux addresses ordinaires.” It is claimed that this is the exact copy given by Mozart to the daughter of Louis XV, and it is believed to have lain undisturbed in the portfolio, where it was found, since the year 1794.—American Art Journal.
—It is rumored that the writers of dime fiction have abandoned the worn-out theme of Indian adventures, and are now choosing for their heroes the leading characters of the late numerous train robberies in the South and West. This will start the ambitious desires of the average small boy in a new direction. Hereafter, instead of the bloody (?) onslaught upon the carved cigar store signs, or the usual running away from home with the avowtd intention of murdering every Indian that roams (he mountains or plains, the small boy will probably plant h:mself beside the railway track, butcher knife in hand, and as the train moves along, command the engineer to stop instantly or take the consequences. The engineer will probably choose to take the consequences, but this will not deter the youthful hern from waiting for the next train, and repeating the operation until he becomes hungry and returns home for his regular feed. What this country now needs is a novelist who will make of his heroes good, Christian young fellows; but it will be hard to convince the average fiction builder that such work would engraft itself on the youthful mind.—Catholic Review.
—S rauss and his wife were enjoying a quiet walk in the park, at Schonan, recently, when suddenly the composer exclaimed: “My dear, I have a waltz in my head; quick! give me the inside of a letter or an envelope to write it down before I forget it.” Alas! after much rummaging of pockets it was discovered that neither of them had a letter about them—not even a tradesman’s account. Johann Strauss’s music is considered light, but it weighs as heavy as lead on his brain until he can transfer it to paper. His despair was heart-rending. At last a happy thought struck Frau Strauss. She held out a snowy linen cuff, and Johann smiled. In two minutes it was MS. Then its mate shared the same fate, then Frau Strauss’s collar, then not another scrap of starched linen on which to conclude the composition. His own linen was limp colored calico —no hope there. Johann became frantic. He was much worse lor having been allowed to write three-quarters of the waltz He was just on the point of dashing home like a mic.man, when another happy thought struck Frau Strauss. She plunged her hand into a capacious pocket, flshed out a puree, and displayed, to his delight, a new hundred gulden note. Hurrah! The entire finale vias written on the banknote, and then Strauss relapsed into his usual tranquillity.
—Every music lover who visits Vienna, says the American Ait Journal, will like to know that Mozart lived in the Rauhenstein Gasse, a narrow street leading down to the Cathedra), in a house, now a tavern or drinking-house, which, by some remarkable coincidence, wears on its front a badge of fiddles and other musical instruments. No one must be so deluded as to imagine that when Mozart arrived at his own home he knocked at the ©tr^t
90
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
door as ordinary mortals; no, he walked under a gateway, and thence up-stairs to his ordinary apartments. That Mozart gave his Sunday evening concerts, and enchanted people in a room on the first floor with a bow window to it, is a fact not to be despised; for if we fancy the human being, we must give him a iccal habitation, else he is a spirit and not one of ourselves. We do not wish to know the great performances of great men; we wish to know their little actions; how they walked, looked and spoke, their crooked habits and peculiarities; and to know that Mozart had a restless and nervous fidgetiness in his hands and feet, and seldom sat without motion of them, makes him more present to us than the most labored picture. And here lived Mozart; he who has thrown a fresh grace around the ideal of womanliness, who could “ paint the rose and add perfume to the violet ”; and in love, while the subtle and metaphysical poets are trying to get at the heart of its emotions, gives us a language for sighs and tears, for tenderness and rapture.
Scientific Notes.
—Common plaster of Paris figures may be made to look like alabaster by simply dipping them into a strong solution of alum water.
—Intelligence received at the Warner Observatory, Roch-Chester, N. Y.. from Bristol,England, states that Prof. W. F. Denning discovered a bright new comet on the 4th inst. It is located in the constellation of Leo, right ascension 9 hours 22 minutes, declination North 1G degrees, daily motion 30 minutes East. This is the sixth comet which has been seen since May 1st, five being new discoveries, all but two of which were first observed by Americans, and it is certainly a high compliment to the industry and skill of American astronomers that they have shown so fine a record. The total amount which Mr. H. H. Warner has given in comet prizes, during the past year, is §1,300 which shows that the interest taken in astronomical affairs in this country is greatly increasing.
—An Italian naturalist has been studying the eucalyptus tree, and finds it as valuable for destroying miasma as the most sanguine Californians have ever claimed it to be. It has extraordinary powers of absorption, the trunk of a full-grown tree taking up ten times its own weight of water from the soil in which it stands. This alone is often enough to purify a fever district, the superfluous m’.asma-breeding moisture in the earth being absorbed by the trees. Experiments with eucalyptus planting in miasmatic regions have given surprising results. The vicinity of the Convent delle Tre Fontane, near Rome, was one of the most pestilential spots in Italy; but monks sent there, in 18G8, to plant groves of these trees, made it a healthful region within five years. On a farm near the Algerian borders, where previously no human being could live for any length of time, 1,300 eucalyptus plants, set in 18G7, have counteracted every tendancy to fever. Similar experiments have been successful also in Alsace and Lorraine. The home of the tree is in Australia and Tasmania. It composes in great measure the forests of Australia. lu California all varieties of the tree are to be found. It is planted there chiefly an account of its rapid growth, to obtain shade and woodland on some of the otherwise treeless plains. So quickly does the eucalyptus grow that a plant three feet high, set in the ground near Mentone, in 1869, had attained in 1874 a height of over fifty feet and a diameter of forty inches three feet from the ground.
—Possibly the bitterest opponents of vaccination may be impressed by the grim details of the story which was told and discussed by the Rothehithe vestry on Tuesday. A person in the locality had made himself conspicuous for many years as a vehement anti-vaccinator, and had ingeniously succeeded in evading the act, so that no members of his family were vaccinated. A couple of months back one of this man’s children took small-pox. No doctor was called in, but the child was nursed by its mother and recovered. Then the mother herself took small-pox and died, after which two more of the children fell victims to the disease, and three more had to be taken to the hospital. Bad though this was, there was more to come, if the story
told at the vestry be true. The anti-vaccinationist borrowed from a neighbor a suit of black clothes to wear at his wife’s funeral. He kept the clothes in his house a few days before returning them. Shortly after their return their owner also took the small-pox, was conveyed to the hospital and died there. Since then several houses in the same neighborhood have become infected, and some sixteen cases of small pox have been taken to the hospital. Commentary on such a case is needless. The liberty of the individual is sacred so long as it does not infringe on the liberty of some one else. If anti-vaccinationists only did harm to themselves, no one would have a right to interfere with their fancies; but when their vagaries may lead to the wholesale infection of a district and the deaths of several persons, it is time that the laws which aim at preventing the spread of contagion should be thoroughly put into force.—London {Eng.) Daily Neios.
Exchanges.
—The Catholic World for November presents the following table of contents: I, “The Sentiment of English Radicalism,” A. F. Marshall; II, “A Jesuit in Disguise,” by John R. G. Hassard; III, “Story of a Portionless Girl,” Part I, Mary H. A. Allies; IV, “ The Sires of Chasteleux,” M. P. Thompson; V, “ Catholic Musings on Tennyson’s ‘In Memoriam,”’* * *; VI, “Kelt and Teuton,” Hugh P. McEfrone; VII, “ Bourdaloue,” Rev. J. V. O’Conor; VIII, “The Christian Conquest of Africa,” (Concluded.) R F. O'Connor; IN, “Christian Jerusalem,” Part V, Rev. A. F. Hewit; X, “ Church Livings in England and in Spain,” R. F. Farrell; XI, “The Last of the Carthusians and the Fate of the Observant Fathers,” S. Hubert Burke; XII, “Napoleon III and his Reign,” Rev. Henry A. Brann, D D.; XIII, “The Yorktown Centennial Celebration,” Rt. Rev. J. J. Keane, D. D.; XIV, “New Publications: Catholic Controversy—The Problem of Religious Progress—The Twit-Twats—Letters and Writings of Marie Lataste—Nach Rom und Jerusalem—Ranthorpe—Rituale Romanum Pauli V.”
—Exchanges, new and old, are pouring in from all. points of the compass. Among the new ones that catch our eye as we write are, The Campus, Madison, Wis., The Coup d’Etat, Galesburg, III., The Occident, Berkeley, Cal., The Student, Lebanon, Tenn., and the College Lancet. Among old visitors that have put in an appearance for the first time this year are, The Williams Athenaeum, The Princetonian, The Brunonian, The College Message, Cape Girardeau, Mo, The Georgetown College Journal, Georgetown, D. C., The ’Varsity, Toronto, Ont., The Portfolio, The Chronicle, The Lariat, High School, Bulletin, Lawrence, Mass., Knox Stupent, Rambler, Earlhamite, etc. Among old visiters that have not come, but which we would be glad to see, are The University, University of Michigan, 77*e Vassar Miscellany, Cornell Review, Virginia University Magazine, the Alabama Mag,—(we cannot now recall the name), Browne's Phonograpic Monthly, and one or two others. The Cornell Sun is a daily visitor, and a welcome one. The Harvard Daily Echo, which came regularly last year, has not yet put in an appearance, nor have we heard of it through our exchanges.
—The Philosophian Review fcr September is at hand. It is a neat specimen of the college paper, and, with the exception of the Local, is fairly well edited. The locals, like those of many papers from co-educational institutions, are rather soft. The exchange editor of the Review is a man of no ordinary ability, though sometimes rather hasty in his conclusions, as for instance in regard to the University Magazine. He forgets that a college paper or magazine is published not for those who (to modify his words a little) “ have never been and never expect to be a student under allegiance to the University” where it is published, but chiefly, if not altogether, for those in the University, and if these prefer to have a record of the athletic sports common to all colleges, and a stimulus thereto, rather than literary matter, why should they not enjoy the privilege without challenge or question? We and others have been criticized for devoting too much space to essays, etc., and those who attacked us are in turn brought to task for devoting themselves chiefly to athletic sports. Which

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
91
is right and which is wrong,—or rather are not both wrong, at least to a certain extent? We like athletics and athletic news, but not to the exclusion of literary effort. Among the able exchange notes of the Philosophian we find the following comment on the K. If. I.’s apology for secret societies in college:	'
“ The first number gives to us the conclusion of quite a dissertation on ‘CollegeFraternities.’ There are several point spre-sented to which we would take exception if we were going into the business of general discussion. It doesn’t seem to us, however, that we care to take up that line of work under our department. The author says, however, that ‘ Society members, nurtured under the influences of society in conjunction with the College, love Alma Mater to an extent unknown by other pupils.’ Can h e prove his assertion ? Is not the tendency rat her, to receive nurture from the society and forget or overlook College influence? The member of a society learns to like it with its influences. And the question comes, ‘Does he not get to putting it first at all times ? ’ If so how can it be proved that he loves Alma Mater with a love that the student who is thoroughly loyal but doesn’t belong to a society is incapabable of ? Is it not making a part greater than the whole ? Then, too, we would ask if that sympathy can be considered genuine which only is engendered by the fact that the one in trouble belongs to the same secret fraternity ? we should say no! It is at least not the kind of sympathy that we are taught to cherish by the Book of Books or that we had illustrated in the life of the only perfect Man who ever walked on earth. Taking the article as we have it, it is a very weak thing for College Secret Fraternities to depend upon, and they certainly could not stand much pressure, having so poor a foundation.”
CoDege Gossip.
—Wesleyan University, of Middletown, Conn., wants to raise §200,000. President Seney, of the Metropolitan Bank, New York, offers §100 000 if the trustees of the college can raise the rest.—Cornell Sun.
—The oldest American college president is A. L. Beloit; the youngest, D. S. Hill,-of Lewisburg University.—Philosophian Review.
We doubt the truth of the latter part of the item. If we are not much mistaken, President Walsh, of Notre Dame University, is the youngest College President in the United States, and one of the best, if not the best.
—The statement of an eminent professor of medicine, that students who passed through his hands rarely distinguished themselves if they were smokers, and the corresponding statement that within half a century no young man addicted to the use of tobacco has graduated at the head of his class at Harvard College, if reliable, are certainly strong arguments against its use.—Catholic Review.
—The Roman Catholic College of St. Theresa, compris ing the most extensive buildings of the kind in the Province, and situated in the village of the same name, 25 miles northwest of Montreal, was burned on Oct. 5th. The origin of the fire is unknown. Three hundred pupils and more than twenty Professors were in the buildings, but all escaped. The loss is from §300,000 to 400,000; well covered by insurance.
—The dangers of the pernicious system of co-education have been so forcibly brought to the attention of the authorities of the Ohio State University that they have de-termimd to keep the male and female students wholly apart, except-in class and chapel. A regulation permitting the girls to receive calls once a week has been abrogated, and they are forbidden, also, to meet the boys anywhere out of doors.—Catholic Mirror.
—A teacher tells the following story: “ I was teaching in a quiet country village. The second morning of my session I had leisure to survey my surroundings, and among the scanty furniture I espied a three-legged stool. ‘ Is this the dunce-block? ’ I asked a little girl of five. The dark eyes sparkled, the curls nodded assent, and the lips rippled out, ‘ I suppose so; the teacher always sits on it.’ The stool was unoccupied that term.”—Ex.
—The Rev. W. H. Platt, a Protestant clergyman, makes the following admissions in a recent number of the San Francisco Chrisian Advocate-. “In 836, the Council of the Church at Rome established schools for the poor. The third Lateran Council, H79, and that of Lyons, 1845, did
the same. For many long centuries the schools of the Church were" the only schools, and its libraries the only libraries. The Church opened its streams of intellectual life and power not only at Oxford, Cambridge, Pisa, Bologna and Paris, but wherever books had a reader or science a sludent.
—That Massachusetts’ much vaunted school system is still not quite perfect, is sometimes conceded by the candid Bostonians. The Journal, for example, asks if the thoroughness of the system does not overweight it and rob it of some oi its most desirable results. There is a formidable list of subjects taught and there is a tendency to lengthen it. Already the grade of instruction in high schools is above that which colleges maintained twenty-five years ago, and some forty towns are voluntarily maintaining such schools. “There are no data,” continues the Journal, “showing what percentage of pupils end their student life with the schools of the grammar grade, nor what is taught in these schools; but that vast numbers enter upon active life with but scant mental discipline, is too well known.” Too much time has been spent upon a variety ot studies. It seems absurd that it should still be necessary to preach the doctrine that a few subjects thoroughly understood are of more advantage than is a smattering of many.—Catholic Review.
—The “Society for the Preservation of the Irish Language ” remind us in their report, j ust issued, that the Irish language now holds a prominent place on the circular of the three great systems of national education in Ireland. In America, we are told, the study is being pursued with great enthusiasm. The Irish-American newspaper devotes several columns weekly to the publishing of Irish literature in the Irish character, and the publishers of the same journal, in New York, have recently brought out a handsome cheap edition of Dr. MacHale’s Irish version of “ Moore’s Melodies.” In Germany, Dr. Windisch, of the University of Leipsic, has published an Irish Grammar, with Irish texts, for advanced students; Dr. Zimmer, who came over from Berlin to preside at some of the council meetings of the society, last year, still continues his Irish class in the University at Berlin, and in Australia a flourishing branch of the society has been formed. The report from which we derive these facts is appended to a handsomely-printed volume of 300 pages, published at the low price of Is. 6d., and comprising the second part of the ancient Irish romance known as “The Pursuit of Diarmuid and Grainne,” with an introduction by Mr. O’Grady, and an English translation, a glossary and notes. One of the four Vice-Presidents of the society is Marshal McMahon, Ex President of the French Republic.—London {Eng )Eews.
—Harvard College was named after John Harvard, who, in 1638, left; to the col ege £779, and a library of over 300 books. Williams College was named after Col. Ephraim Williams, a soldier of the old French war. Dartmouth College was named after Lord Dartmouth, who subscribed a large amount, and was President of the first Board of Trustees. Bro wn University received its name from Hon. Nicholas Brown, who was a graduate, and endowed the college very largely. Columbia College was called King's College till the close of the War for Independence, when it was named Columbia. Bowdoin was named after Governor Bowdoin, of Maine. Yale College was named after Elihu Yale. Dickinson College was named after Hon. John Dickinson. He made a very liberal donation to the college, and was President of the Board of Trustees for a number of years. Cornell University was named after Ezra Cornel], its founder.—Philosopliian Review.
So also with Vanderbilt University, Johns Hopkins University, and Vassar College—all named afier the benfac’.ors who built and endowed them. Thus it is that those men’s names are handed down to posterity, and will continue iu remembrance for generations to come. As we clipped the above extract we wondered why it was that among all the buildings at Notre Dame but one bears the name of a benefactor, Phelan Hall; old Washington Hall, it seems, owed no outside benefactor a debt of gratitude, so it was named after the Father of our Country; the Academy of Music goes up without a name to honor or do it honi'r; the new Science Hall and Library buildings are sadly needed, but are not, and we suppose that on account of the pressure put upon the authorities by the great fire, two years ago, which demolished everything, we will have to -wait long for the Science Hall and Library building. Meantime, will no one give a helping hand to start them?
92
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, October 23, 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, SI.50 per ^nnum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the SCHOLASTIC regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, nsuaUy, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
Founder’s Day at Notre Dame.
The following is the address of the Senior department, written and delivered by Mr. Wm. H. Arnold, on St. Edward’s eve, in honor of Very Rev. Father Sorin, founder of Notre Dame:
It is my duty and a pleasure on this annual recurrence of his day to honor in my humble way the Founder of our Alma Hater. In proportion to the dignity and standing of our justly celebrated University it becomes me to praise him who through years of arduous toil and saintly piety labored to found and to protect Notre Dame. The very first act of Father Sorin’s life which is familiar to us seems to me one of true greatness. I refer to his abandoning his native land, to make his abode in the wilds of America. Father Sorin, then a youthful priest, when about to cross for the first time the vast ocean, must have considered all he was renouncing and must have thought of the innumer. able hardships he should encounter in his new home. On the one hand, he saw fair France in the height of culture and civilization; on the other, he pictured the quasi babar-ous West, and all the hardships of pioneer life. He made the choice, and the daring and self-sacrifice and confidence in God which it required shows plainly the character of a hero. But great as had been the sacrifice, strong the res-olutioq when leaving la idle France, the sight of the field
of his future labors when he first arrived here, on that wintry evening,in the last of November, was enough to shake an iron purpose and make the bravest heart despair. Few are the breasts that would not have quailed at the contemplation of such difficulties. The place was a wilderness. The prairies, woods, marshes, lakes, all were covered with snow and ice. One little log hut, on the bank of St. Mary’s Lake, a church of the early mission, was the only dwelling nearby. At that time, these beautiful grounds were but the deep forests of the West, and around the placid lakes, on whose waters we have spent so many happy hours, the vigorous strokes of the axe wielded by him we now love and honor, might be heard hewing out the foundation of this college and carving a fame for himself that will never die. No easy task was his. But he felled the forest trees, cleared the ground, and surmounted the obstacles which lay in his way. The sweltering heat of summer, or the icy cold of winter, found him ever at his work. No merry voices of the schoo’.-boy then to cheer him on, no gentle band to minister to him when sick, but his march of progress was ever the same—on, on to that goal whither-God had sent him. We all know what a herculean undertaking lay before him. ^How many the dangers, how severe the trials that beset him, but God’s grace ever strengthened him, and the Holy Mother in , whose honor he was rearing these halls ever encouraged him with her love and favors.* 'And to these he owes and attributes his grand success. His trust was ever in the God he served so well. Around about him he saw towns and cities spring up. Mighty civilization spreads her wings over that wilderness, and his small beginning is enlarged and grew into magnificent proportions. The log house gave way to halls of artistic beauty and design. From an humble school arose this University, which ranks with the best in America. From a few holy Fathers and Brothers, sharers of his toil, has sprung the flourishing Congregation of the Holy Cross; and from a few friends, miles apart at the commencement, his circle of friendship now includes thousands in Europe and America. The principal Universities of the world, like the countries to which they belong, have taken centuries to attain preeminence ; but Notre Dame, without endowment or bequest, in the interval of forty years has become one of the first Institutions of learning in the land. When the news of the terrible conflagration of the 23d of April, ’79, which laid Notre Dame in ruins, reached Father General, then about to sail for Europe, many of us feared that the sad event would prove too much for him. But though his heart was smote with grief, did he bow his head in despair? was his noble spirit broken by the loss? was his courage daunted? No, but like the brave, courageous God-fearing, God-trusting man that he is, though age had changed the raven locks to silvery grey, and had set its seal upon him, he bent his energies to the task, and as he had overcome the difficulties of early life, so he met and vanquished most valiantly this sore trial of his declining years. Though age would seem to claim for him respite from the cares and toils of life, we find him with youthful enthusiasm foremost among the ranks of workers in the rebuilding of what some were pleased to call his life’s work. No, dear friends, the life-work of Father Sorin cannot be destroyed by fire or time: it is immortal. His lifework was not the rearing of a college building, but the gaining of an immortal inheritance. Something besides a pile of bricks and mortar is the life-work of our vener.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	93
able Father. The establishment of one of our finest Universities, the making of thousands of friends, the imparting of a Christian education to the thousands who have studied at Notre Dame, are but portions of his life-work. His life of piety, his devotion to the Church, the many acts of Christian love and charity he has performed, all go to make up his life’s work, and, like his saintly namesake, his good deeds will outlive the halls which mark his handiwork. Like Edward of old, the venerable confessor of the Holy Cross Order will live in the hearts of his people, and when his good work below shall be finished, and God grant it may continue many years, the crown of Edward the Confessor will halo the saintly head of Notre Dame’s Founder, and the reward of an everlasting life of bliss be his. Kind friends, do you not agree with me that there is striking resemblance between the life and deeds of this venerable priest, and that saintly king? How closely has not the one imitated the goodness of the other! Edward, forced to fly from his country, learnt virtue in adversity; Father Sorin abandoned his home to teach virtue in a foreign land. The best endeavors of both have been expended in promoting man’s welfare and the adoration of the Most High. The one ruled a nation with gentle sway; the other governs a Congregation of devoted religious. The fame of both, too, has resulted not from deeds of violence but of benevolence to humanity. St. Edward erected Westminster as a monument of his zeal for the glory of God, wherein holy monks might sing unceasingly the praises of the Lord, and from which the consolations and blessings of religion might be radiated throughout the land; Rev. Father General dedicated Notre Dame to the service of God, and here likewise the memT bers of the Congregation offer up constantly prayer and acts of dutiful worship. Moreover, a work goes on at this institution of the greatest benefit to man: an education is given which neglects neither the soul, the mind, nor the body, and hence the boy who if left to himself might become the bane of society, is sent forth a good citizen, a true, honorable religious man, a blessing to his country, to his family, and to himself. Westminster rebuilt is filled with tombs containing the remains of the departed great ones of Britain—who knows but what new Notre Dame may yet nurture the greatest geniuses our own country shall possess? That she may, is the life-long aim of Very ’ ‘ Rev. Edward Sorin, and the sincere wish of every true son
of Notre Dame.
Field Sports.
On account of rain on the 13lh, the field-sports for St. Edward’s day were postponed until Wednesday, October 19th. Bros. Emmanuel, Paul, Leander and Lawrence were the managers. Col. Otis, U. S. A., and Brother Marcel-linus acted as judges. Rev. T. E. Walsh, and Rev. Father Toohey distributed the prizes. The sports were witnessed by numerous spectators, visitors from a distance and others, and seemed to be hugely enjoyed.
The first race of two hundred yards was won by Frank' Dever, Ashland, Ky., with J. J. Flynn, Niles, Mich., second. The first Junior race, 200 yards, was won by Chas. De-voto, of Georgetown, Col.; F. Campeau, of Detroit, Mich., second. The second Senior race was won by J. O’Neill, New York City; Wm. H. Arnold, of Washington, D. C. second. The second Junior race was won by P. Archer, Summit, Ill., F. Lund, Dalton Ill., being second. The Senior double-rape tyas won by F. Gallagher, of Boston, Mass.,
and J. J. Flynn, of Niles, Mich.; F. Bell, of Lima, Ohio, and H. Noble, of Tiffin, Ohio, being second, The third Junior race was won by A Campeau, of Detroit, Mich.; W. Bacon, Chicago, second. The first Senior hurdle-race was won by Jno. J. Flynn, Niles, Mich., F. Gallagher, of Boston, Mass., coming in second. The Junior double-race was won by D. C. Smith, Adrian, Mich., and D. Saviers, of Chicago, with G. Castanedo, New Orleans, La., and W. Keenan, of Lindsay, Ont., second.. - The Senior sackrace was won by Elmer A. Otis, Jr., of Ft. Lincoln, Dakota; W. Johnson, New Lexington, Ohio, coming in second. The second Junior double-race was won by N. Nelson, of Chicago, and J. Heffernan, of Louisville, Ky. The Senior burden-race, each contestant carrying a small boy upon his back, was won by J. Flynn; F- Kuhn, of Nashville, Tenn., coming in second. The third Junior doublerace was won by the McGrath brothers, of Chicago.
The Senior fat men’s race was won by J. Walsh, of Boston, Mass.; F. Biker, second. The first Junior hurdlerace was won by T. Hurley, of Mears, Mich.; M. Dolan, Shirlott, Iowa, second. The Senior free-for-all race was won by W. J. Browne, of Brownsville, Texas; P. McGinnis, of Ottawa, Ill., second. The second Junior hurdlerace was won bp J. O. Kemp, of Denver, Col.; H. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis., second. The mile-race, Junior, was won by T. Hurley, Mears, Mich. Time, 5 minutes, 35 seconds. F. Lund, of Dalton, Ill., was second. Time, 5 minutes, 36 seconds. The Senior one-mile-race was won by J. O’Neill, of New York. Time, 5 minutes, 25 seconds. J. Walsh, of Boston, second. Time 5 minutes, 43J^ sec.
The third Junior hurdle-race was won by F. Ryan, of Topeka, Kansas; H. Kifz, of Indianapolis, second.
The Senior run-and-jump was won by E. McGorrisk, of Des Moines, Iowa. Distance, 17 feet, 5 in. F. Dever, of Ashland, Ky., was second. Distance, 17 feet, 4 in.
The Junior obstrnction-race was won by J. Kelly, of Chicago; J. W. Guthrie, of Carroll, Iowa, second.
The Senior barrel-race was won by J. Walsh, of Boston; W. E. Ruger, of Lafayette, Indiana, second.
The Junior obstruction-race prizewas taken by L. F.Flor-mann, of Rapid City, D. T.; A. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis., second.
The best throw of a ball was made by R. Flemming, of Henderson, Ky.; J. J. Flynn, second. The longest by uniors was won by L. Rogers, Muskegon, Mich. The Junior burden-race was won by W. Keenan, Lindsay, Ont.; C. D. Saviers, Chicago, second. The Junior sack-race was won by J. W. Guthrie, of Carroll, Iowa; M. Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio, second. The Junior foot-race, free for all, was won by Wm. Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio. The 2d Junior sack-race was won by G. Haslam, of Cincinnati, Ohio; Jno. Fendrick, of Evansville, Ind., second.
St. Edward’s Day at St. Mary’s.
True merit is, everywhere, and at all times, deserving of its meed of praise, and in whomsoever it appears should never be permitted to pass unnoticed. It was our good fortune to be present, on Thursday, the 13th inst., at an Entertainment given by the pupils of St. Mary’s Academy, in honor of the patronal Feast of Very Rev. Father General Sorin. We have attended many affairs of the kind in the East, and we can say, truthfully, and without the least pretension to flattery, that we never witnessed a more earnestjir able effort, or a more perfect rendering of sep
94
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
arate parts, than we witnessed on this occasion; and too much cannot he said in praise both of the pupils and their worthy and disinterested instructors, the good Sisters of the Holy Gross. To the former, for tbe earnest attention bestowed on whatever they undertake; and to the latter, for the able manner in which they fulfil the work in hand and for the uniform and unvarying success achieved by them in overcoming all obstacles, and in fitting those under their charge fo.r an able fulfilment of a thoroughly earnest life. It gives us pleasure to append hereto the pro gramme and a brief account of the' Entertainment. We trust we shall have the pleasure of witnessing many future entertainments at St. Mary’s, and earnestly hope that the spirit of emulation and energy which now characterizes the efforts of both pupils and Sisters may never wane.
On the morning of SL Edward’s day, at the six o’clock Mass, celebrated by Rev. Father Saulnier, C. S. C., all the Catholic pupils of the Academy approached the Holy Table, and offered their Communion for Very Rev. Father General. The chaplain, Rev. R. S Shortis, C. S C., offered up the Holy Sacrifice at eight o’clock, and delivered a short eulogium on St. Edward; he drew a most appropriate parallel between Very R-v. Father General and his royal patron. The latter was king of a happy and prosperous people; the former i®, in an equally proper sense, “the king of souls.” St. Edward was tender and charitable to the poor; Father General, also, has been no less the unfailing friend of the orphan and the friendless. Charitable to all, he has never refused to listen to the appeal of the needy and unfortunate, and his life and example, like that of his saintly patron, has been productive of much good to his fellow-men and of great benefit to the country. At this Mass all were present, non-Catholics as well as Catholics. The exquisite Quartette, 0 Jesu, Pastor bonus, was finely rendered by the choir. On Wednesday, the 12th inst, having completed the usual feast letters addressed to Very Rev. Father Sorin in German, French, and E 'glish, according to their classes, the young ladies adorned the study-ha’l in a very tasteful manner with tapestry, au'umn leaves and flowers, interspersed with mottoes of congratulation on graceful scrolls. The platform was rai-ed, and curtains were suspended preparatory tn the Entertainment. At a little after three o’clock, p. m., on Thursday, the visitors began to assemble in the spacious parlor and hall of the Academy; among them were Mr. and Mrs. Fenlon, of Leavenworth, Kansas; Prof. Gregori, wife and daughter; Prof. Paul; Jacob Wile, E q., of La Porte; Mrs. Gibson, of Chicago; Dr. Shaw, and a number of other visi'ors from different parts of the country; Very Rev. Father General, with the Very Rev. Father L’Etourneau, Provincial of the Holy Cross, Rev. Fathers Granger, Shortis, Saulnier, Rev. Father Walsh, President of Notre D ime, Rev. Fathers Stoffel, Zahm, Fallize, Haggerty and Kollop, and a number of others, secular and clerical, whose names we did not learn.	*
OFFERING OF AFFECTION
TO OUR	'
Venerated Father, Vert Rev. Edward Sorin, SuperiorGeneral of the Congregation of ths Holt Cross.
Bright years olden, open go1 den
Memories of this Feast of bliss: Our dear Father, we would gather All past joys, to blend in this.
FROM THE PUPILS OF f$T. Mart’s Academt, Notre Dame, Ind.
OctoberI13th,-1881.
PROGRAMME. Overture to Oberon...................Weber	Gottschalk
Misses Gordon and Fendrick.
Quartette and Chorus—from “Bohemian Girl.”..JBalfe
Onartette— -I Misses Gordon, Catharine Hackett, H. Hackett yuariene	and Reutlingen
Chorus—Vocal Class.......Accompanied by Miss Fendrick
Salutatory from the Senior Department...........Miss	Cavenor
Song.................................................White.
Miss French. JU emoire du Passe..........................Miss	C. Lancaster
TABLEAU. “ The Vision of St. Rose.”...........................
Harp solo.......................................Miss Ga'en
Festgruss.......................................Miss Claffey
Song,—“ L’Invito alia Danza,”.............C. JU. Von Weber
Miss Gordon.
TABLEAU.
SL Elizabeth, “Miracle of the Roses.”..........................
La Campanelle...........................................Liszt Miss Galen.
TABLEAU.
“St. Ursula and Companions,” from the famous painting in the Cathedral of Cologne, by Stephan Lochner.
Sonata Appasionata,—Op. 59, Allegro and Presto....Beethoven Miss Gordon.
Vocal Duet, from “Lucia”.........................Donizetti
Misses J. Reily and C. Hackett.
Juniors and Minims.
Solo and Chorus........................Arranged	by Emerson
Vocal Class.	,
Tableau.
“Queen of Angels”........................................
Instrumental Duet................Misses Wiley and Hackett
The programme was opened by the Misses Gordon and Fendrick, in the “Overture to Oberon.” Their brilliant performance was followed by the equally brilliant yet weird Quartette and Chorus from “ The Bohemian Girl.” Of the music, instrumental and vocJ, suflice it to say that the results of a most attentive supervision, and skilled training of adepts in the art, was clearly apparent throughout. The Salutatory from the Senior department, by Miss Cavenor, was read in a clear rich tone, revealing the cordial sincerity of the sentiments expressed, while the articulation was so perfect that not a syllable was lost.
Memoirs du Passe, felicitations in the universal language of the polite world, the native tongue of Very Rev. Father General, was well delivered by the youthful reader, tbe accent and pronunciation, emphasis and inflection being perfect, and the rendition so earnest as to bring tears to the eyes of the listeners. Miss Claffey, in Festgruss, was deserving of a like commendation.
The Tableau of “ The Vision of St. Rose ” was taken from a description in the life of the Saint, and the well-rendered recitation, by Miss Cavenor, which preceded the drawing of the curtain, made the picture one of personal significance. The dates, 1841,—that of Rev. Father Sorin’s first arrival in America—and 1881, in letters of gold, were presented on scrolls in the hands of angels. The Cross of Roses was made typical of the Congregation over which he presides.
Recitation before the Tableau of St. Elizabeth. “ Miracle o 1 the Roses.”
In all the blessed calendar, The sweetest saint I hold to be Thuringia’s gracious Landgravine, E-izabeth of Hungary., ~
A heart of love, a soul of Are, A hand to pity and to bless ;
A life, one passionate desire Of pure and perfect holiness.
They brighten the historic page, Those legends beautiful and quaint
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ‘	95
Of miracles that so illume
The tragic history of my saint, ... Of that dear legend that they keep In roses round her castle, still, Her memory blooming bright and meet, By Wartburg’s steep and rocky hill.
How, one midwinter day she went
Adown the icy path, to bear A store of meat and eggs and bread, To cheer the poor who claimed her care ;
How, h’ding all beneath her robes,
Against the tempest toiling down, She met the Duchess, face to face,— And trembling stood before her frown.
And how, “ What dost thou here, my child, What beared thou ?” she sternly said, And ope’d her mantle’s fold, to find Within but roses, white and red!
The Tableau, “ S'.. Elizabeth and the Miracle of the Roses,” was introduced by the same excellent voice as that preceding St. R >se, in an appropriate selection from Grace j Greenwood’s admirable poem, “The Queen’s Kiss.” I The Tableau of “ St. Ursula and her Companions ” was a close copy of the original, and it brought out the idea of the painter in a most vivid and beautiful manner.
Recitation before the Tableau of “ Queen of Angels.”
How wonderful is life in heaven Amid the Angelic choirs,
Where uncreated Love has crowned His first-created fires!
'	But see! New marvels gather there!
The wisdom of the Son
,	With heaven's completest wonder ends
|	The work so well begun.
i'	The throne is set: the blessed Three
Crowning Their work are seen— Th- Mother of the First-born Son, The first-born creatures’Queen! '
From Faber’s “ Creation of the Angels.”
The closing Tableau, “ Queen of Angels,” w is in honor of the double consecration of the month of Oct. (of which St. Edward's feast at St. Mary’s is the nucleus) to the holy Angels and their Heavenly Queen. It was a tribute to the choice made by Very Rev. Father General in the names chosen for both the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Academy. The song “L’lnvito alia Danza,” by Miss Gordon, was rendered in a manner pleasing to the listener and creditable to the young lady. La Campanella from L’szt was excellently rendered by Miss Galen.
We had well nigh forgotten to mention the song by White, rendered by Miss French. It was indeed a treat. This young lady is possessed of a full, round, clear and rich voice, for which both nature and art have done much. The selections from Beethoven, and others, as rendered by Miss Gordon proved her to be rather a master than a novice in the understanding and rendering of the work.
The addresses by the Junior and Minim Departments were truly admirable, and the young Misses cannot be too highly commended for the really sensible and praiseworthy manner in which they filled their different roles.
The duett, from “Lucia,” by the Misses Reily and Hackett, was a rare treat, and the rendition showed plainly a thorough understanding and earnest work on the part of i	both teachers and pupils. The Solo and Chorus given
i	by the Junior and Minim departments, from an ar-
rangement by Emerson, had a most pleasing effect and was well appreciated. The closing piece, an instrumental duett, by Misses Wiley and Hackett, was a most excellent rendering and strongly reminded the departing J guests of the proverb: “ The last shall be first.”
The rendition of “ Dame Nature,” by the Junior and Minim departments, was, without exception, the most perfect description of the kind we have ever seen. Each pupil represented either a flower or vegetable, and in the recitation cf the different parts the young Misses exhibited a coolness and proficiency that would have done credit to older and abler heads. They certainly could not have acquitted themselves in the creditable manner in which they did, without great previous care and preparation, and their instructors are deserving of much praise for the able manner in which they performed their work.
As a whole, we have never before been present at an entertainment of the kind from which we took our departure with feelings of such genuine pleasure and satisfaction as that of St. Edward’s day at St. Mary’s, and rur only regret is that our poor abilities and our narrow sphere of life at the present time prevent us from rendering the m a more deserved and substantia! proof of our good will.
The following are the names of the young ladies participating in the tableaux: “ St. Rose of Lima ’’ :- “ St. Rose,” Miss G. Taylor; “Angels,” (at the Foot of the Cross) Miss K. Campbell; “ Carrying Scrolls,” Misses L Lancaster and V. Lewis; “Holding the Cross,” Misses M. Prquette, J. Spengler, B. Liguar.l, K. Rosing. “ St.Ursula and C mpan-ions”: “St. Ursula,” Miss K. Fenlon; “C-mpanions,” Misses Todd, Ducey, Ryan, Papin, Cavenor, Galen, Pam-pel, E Call, Chrischelles, Vanderhejden, Barlow, Shickey, Call, McKenna, Greble, Coryell, B ack, Butts. Nash, French, Fleming. “St. Efzibeth of Hungary”: “St. Elizabeth,’’ Miss Campbell; “The Duchess Sophia,” Miss Galen. “The Queen of Angels”: “TheBles=ed Virgin,” Miss Simms; “ Saints,” Misses Taylor, F< n’on, Campbell, and Donnelly; “Angels,” Misses Todd, Btilow, Pamptl, Fleming, Owens, Campbell, M. Corgan, M Ryan.
St. Maby’s Minims.
The following are the names of the young Misses who took part in the recitations of Dame Nature and Her Children, on the Feast of St. Edward. The rendition of parts by the Junior and Minim departments was so excellent and praiseworthy that we cannot in honesty fail to give it at least a slight token of our appneia’ion. The names themselves, we are sure, will be,sufficient guarantee of the earnestness and ability of the wo rthy contestants:
Prologue Reader.............................Marian	Morgan
(	Written by Ada Clark
Juniors’ Address ■< Fainted by Genevieve Speng'er (	Read by Mary Dueey
■	( Written by Clara Ginz
Minims’ Address-/ Painted by Philomena Ewing ( Read by Sarah Campbell
ESCULENT PLANTS.
Potato.......... Beet............ Squash.......... Corn............ Tea Plant....... Cabbage......... Pumpkin.........
Wheat...........
Spices and Peppers
FLOWERS.
Lily of the Valley Sun Flower........ Morning Glory.... Violet............ Exotics............ Talip............... Pansy............... Rose................
Little Posies.....
.....Eliza Papin .Verbena Semmes .....Mary Otis Philomena Ewing Manuelita Chaves .....Mary Coyne ..Margaret Rogers .....Mary Ducey .....Alice Sauzer
.Sarah Campau .. Cora Paterson ....Martha Otis ..Edma Bustis .Marauta Otero .. Mary Mosier Clara Robinson .. ..ClaraGinz •Lilly Robinson
96
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—	David J. Wile, Jr., ’G8, is very busy in the Law business.
—	J. H. Duffy, ’57, is in the Government service in Chicago, Ill.	.
—	Oliver Tong, '68, holds a prominent position in the Western postal service.	-
—	S. C. Cassidy, ’79, is studying medicine at Miami Medical College, Cincinnati, Ohio.
—	D. J. Cook, of ’58-’59 and ’60, is Secretary to the American Wine Co., St. Louis, Mo.
—	T. E. Nelson, (Commercial) ’78, is with A. E. Morley, in the dry goods business, at Chicago. Ill.
—E. and G Fishburn, both of '76, paid a flying visit to the College last Tuesday to see some of their relatives who are studying here.
—Among those who attended the Exhibition on Thursday, the 13ih iust., we noticed Dr. Cacsidy,of South Bend; Mrs. G. Rhodius and niece, of Indianapolis, Ind.; Ben J. F Studebaker, of ’64 and ’65-
—Dr. D. M. Calvert, surgeon-dentist, of South Bend, did us the favor of a call this week and left us a businesscard for the Scholastic. The doctor’s place of business is 69 Washington S.reet, over Mr. A. Klingel’s store. Dr. Calvert has a first class reputation in the various branches of dentistry and we are glad to place his card before our friends.
-------------------------
Local Items.
—Gentlemen, “ Fatty ” was hungry.
—Harry, you should have put it on ice.
—The Juniors came out victorious last Monday night.
—No wonder the Murlhadas won; the lead was on their side.
—The “fat man,” of south side study-hall, has “friends” all over the States.	•
—The Sc. Ceciliaus and Philopatrians have lively and interesting meetings.	,
—The “fat man” and the “lean man” looked well together, Thursday evening.
—Messrs. C. Tinley, and J. O’Neill did their work well as censors at the last Exhibition.
—Brother William has adorned the Senior study-hall with some beautiful banging-vases of flowers.
— The Calisthenic Exhibition, in the rotunda, on the evening of St. Edward’s feast, was a grand success.
—Certain Seniors occupy the northwest corner of the campus on Sunday afternoons. Come forward and explain, mashers.
—Brother Francis Regis deserves great credit for the excellent manner in which the Minims’ sports were conducted on St. Edward’s day.
—A litt rarily-inclined Senior was detected, last week, reading “Ribinson Crusoe.” We hope he won’t get Reilly on account of this exposure.
—Numerous flacks of ducks have lately been seen hov-eaing over the lakes, presenting spectacles which make the hearts of all true sportsmen rejoice.
—Col. E. A. Otis, U. S. A., Prof. J. A. Lyons and Prof J. F. Edwards presented the Minims with some handsome prizes for the field-sports on the 13th.
—A full-length, life-s’zr portrait of Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., late President of the University, has been added to the collection of the Historical Ds partment.
—The names of Masters Vincent Rul ori, Chicago, Ill., and Joseph Kelly, Washington, D. C.. were omitted from the Minim Roll of Honor last week, by mistake.
—The weather has been so bad during the past week as to prevent the Cadets from having their daily drill. But with the return of fine weather we hope to see them out,
sion.
—The Exhibition in Calisthenics in the rotunda, last Thursday night, was a grand success; the students return thanks to Pi of. Paul for his excellent music on that occa-
—The Minims were presented with a number of very serviceable and ornamental gifts to be distributed as |g| prizes to the winners of the various contests on St. Edward’s day.	S
—Mr. C. J. McDermott, who has for some time been very g ill, is, we are glad to say, getting better very rapidly, and Ri we may hope before long to see him again in his accus- w tomed place.	W
—Although the baseball clubs have been organized, we have as yet seen no good playing. The members of the clubs seem not to be st industrious as formerly. Cannot Sf something be done to stir them up ?	||
—The pilgrimage, which was expected from Mishaw’akn, |1 failed to take place on account of the bad weather. We K were very sorry, for we are always glad to see the good B people of Mishawaka in our midst.	ffl
—Mrs. M. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, on the occasion of | her late visit, generously presented twenty-five dollars to II the Historical Department, for which sum the directors hereby return a grateful acknowledgment.	|
—The Senior students and prefects are under obligations	J
to Rev. Father Walsh, President; also to Col. E. Otis,	I
U. S A.; Professors Tong, Edwards, Unsworth and others	।
of the Faculty for valuable prizes presented for field day | sports.	|
—Rev. Professor Zahm is, we understand, preparing to ji give, at an early date, one of his beautiful art entertainments. This, we are sure, all will be glad to hear, as it is now a long time since Prof. Zahm last favored us with ; an exhibition of his art treasures.	i
—To morrow, Feast of the Mast Holy R deemer, Missa, de Angelis will be sung. The Ve=per Psalms are Dixit Dominus, Confitebor Credidi, De Profundis, Confitebor tibi Domine, ... quoniam. Hymn of the first Sunday of Advent (page 59 of the Vesperal), Creator Aime Siderum.
—Although the athletic sports are not very well patronized by the Seniors in general, yet there are some who are particularly good and who may be patterned after with great advantage to these doing so. The gentlemen who are best aie: Messrs. Arnold, Zahm, Olis, Bailey and White.
—The members of the Lemonnier Library Association are indebted to Maurice F. Egan, of the Freeman's Journal. for the pleasure and profit they derive from reading " The Critic," which he transmits to them regularly every week through Rev. Father Hudson, Editor of “ The Ave Maria."
—The 4th regular meeting of the Thespian Society took place Oct. 15th. Messrs. C. Van Dusen, F. Bell, F. ] Grever and S. P. Terry were elected members. Readings • from the British and American classical authors were given by George Clarke, A. Zihm, J. Solon, M. Healy, J. O’Neil], D. Danahey and E. Orrick.
—The Euglossians had a grand jollification after their play: the music was furnished by the University Orchestra, the supper by Prof. Lyons and Bro. S mon. Speeches by White, who brouehtdown the house on the “Disturbance Bill,” Clarke, Orrick, and E. Solon. The speeches were all good. The entertainment was finished with a grand chorus by the Senior class. The old roof fairly trembled to the echo.
—A meeting of the Notre Dame Cadets was called by Col. E. Otis, U. S. A., at one o’clock, p. m., on the 17th inst., for the purpo e of selecting a more suitable uniform than the one in use at present The uniform decided on was to consist of blue pantaloons, with a tight-fitting blouse of the same material; all the trimmings will be of scarlet. This dr< ss will be both showy and tasteful, and it is to be hoped that all the cadets will have it as soon as possible.
—On Saturday night the promised oyster supper was given to the students. It was quite an enjoyable affair, and everybody went away well pleased. Great numbers of the bivalves disappeared apd no injurious effects were
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	97
felt, thanks to the good sense of the consumers. The students all return thanks to our beloved President, who always has in mind not only the spiritual and moral development of his charges, but also pays due attention to their physical comfort.
—The following effusion was dropped into our local box by an ambitious Senior:
Who sits there in the cold night wind, His face o’erspread with a look of woe, Bending down, with a view to find A descent unto the roof below ?
I see an object lying there;
Lo! and behold! it is a pillow. Excuse us, but how came it there ? You will inform us, won’t you Will, 0?
—The 4th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on the 16th inst., Prof. J.F. Edwards presiding. Compositions were read by D Mc-Cawley, D. A. O'Connor, C. McGord-m, C. Metz, P. Cam-pau, B. Powell ard'J. Nester. Declamations were delivered by W. T. Berthelet, W. Miller, L. Young and M E. Devitt. Compositions and declamations were assigned to D. Piatt. F. I. Otis, T. Ellis, O. Dillon, J. Chaves, G. Nash, and J. Ki lly, for the next meeting. Masters Francis Scott and Francis S Whitney were admitted to membership, after which the meeting adjourned.
—Mr. J. Francis Smith has just finished the full-length portrait of Very Rev. Stephen Badin upon which he has been working for some months past. The likeness to the venerable proto-priest of the United States is said to be excellent by persons who knew Father Badin when he established the Indian mission here, fifty years ago. From an artistic point of view the picture is a chef d'c&vre. Father Badin is represented breviary in hand, emerging from the little log chapel he erected here at Notre Dame, near St. Mary’s Lake. As far as we can learn, this,picture is the only oil painting of the venerable priest in existence.
—The fifth, sixth and seventh regular meetings of the St. Ceciila Philomathean Association took place Oct. the 3d, 10th, and 17th respectively; Master E. Fishel read a well-written essay on “ The Life and Times of Napoleon I.” Selections were given by G. Rhodius, C. Rose, G. Castanedo, C. Echlin, J. Grever, W. P. Mahon, G. Schaefer, A. Browne, J. Heffernan, and N. Nelson. Public readers for the coming week are, G. Rhodius, E. Fishel, J. Grever, W. Coghlin, W. P. Mahon, G. Castanedo, A. Browne, J. Heffernan, A. Coghlin, C. Rose and J. Fendrick. A lengthy debate on the causes of the Revolution and a description of Yorktown and the surrender of Lord Cornwallis, consumed the rest of the time of the meeting.
—The 3d regular meeting of the Arcbconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception took place Sunday evening, Oct. 16th, 1881. The following were present at this meeting: Rev. Fathers Granger and Stoffel; Col. E. Otis, Bros Leander and Basil. Brother Basil kindly acted as or-ganist. The ten-minute instruction was given by Rev. T. E. Walsh. Master J. Guthrie explained the devotion of the Rosary. N. Nelson told us how to prepare for Confession. The following appointements were made for the next regular meeting: C. Echlin an essay, “ How to make a good Confession ”; S. Murdock one on “ Thanksgiving after Communion,” and H. Porter will explain about how we can help the Saints in purgatory. After a few remarks from the President, the meeting adjourned.
—We congratulate the pupils and patrons of St. Mary’s Academy in having at their command so thoroughly earnest and disinterested a Superior as Mother Angela. Even as our own well beloved Father Sorin has spent his best and most earnest years and efforts in a worthy and successful attempt to build up the educational interests of our dear Alma Mater, so also has this most worthy and disinterested of women devoted her life, her abilities and her fortune to the welfare of the earnest and worthy seekers after a truly worthy education. We deem it but a very slight return for the labor of a lifetime to render to those who have worn themselves out in the great labor of education, of morality and of religion the poor homage of our praise at a time that most forcibly reminds both them and us of the generous work they have in hand.
—The fifth and sixth regular meetings of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society were held Oct. 7th and 15th, respectively. Masters J. Livingston, E. Fenlon, G. L. Dechamp, C. Devoto, and E. Howard were unanimously elected members. A well-written compcsition, on the surrender of Lord Cornwallis was read bv W. H. Johnson. Declamations were delivered by L. P. Gibert, D. Saviers, Fred Fishel, J. Devine, D. C. Smith, H. Snee, L. Rogers, A. L. Richmond, G. Tourtillolte, P. Yrisarri, W. Hanavin, H. Devitt, P. Archer, H. Metz. Master W. Ayers appeared to very good advantage by personating a very difficult selection, which called forth very loud applause. The Philopatrian Choral Union closed the exercises with some very fine singing, Masters L. Gibert, F. Campau, E. Bailey, D. Saviers, D. C. Smith, G. Kipper, G. Dechamp, and F. Peters appearing to good advantage
—The boat-races on St Edward’s dav came off much to the credit of the contesting parties. The course was two lengths of St. Mary’s L*ke, about a mile. The Hiawatha was manned by W. McEniry, stroke; F. Devoto, 2d; F. Kuhn. 3d; Capt. W. H. Arnold, 4th; J. Marlett, 5th; W. T. Schofield, bow’; J. McIntyre, coxswain. Color, White. Crew of Minnehaha: J. Kindle, stroke; M. J. McCue, 2d; W. Arnold, 3d; C. B. Van Dusen, 4th and Capt. M. Healy, 5th; E. A. Otis, bow’; R. M. Anderson, coxswain. Color, Blue. The signal was given by Col. E. A. Otis. The “ Blues ” started out with a short, quick stroke, in a magnificent manner, and at first gained on the “ Whites,” who s’arted with a long stroke which at first was not steady but was well atoned for before the buoy was reached. The “ Blues ” gained at the start, but lost near the first buoy, where the “Whites” were nearly ten feet ahead; the “Blues” gained the turn though, and started on the home stretch nearly a boa!-length ahead. The “ Whites ” gained steadily, however, until within a hundred yards from the goal, when the “ Blues ” picked up and came in about a length ahead. The crews were well chosen and very equally matched. What wras gained by strength in the“ Hiawatha” was matched by quickness and grit in “Minnehaha.” Both Captains deserve credit for their endeavors. Distance, 1 mile; time, 4 min, 9. sec.
—In our last issue we spoke of the Euglossians and of the able manner in which the several members of the Association acquitted themselves in the play, “Tne Expiation.” In order to explain the origin and object of the society, we thought we could not do better than reproduce the original circular of the organ’zation, which we copy verbation from the Scholastic of March 28, 1868. “It would seem to the casual observer that there existed societies enough at Notre Dame: three of a purely literary character, as many of a musical nature, while the religious seem to embrace in two quite as many members as all combined. But a want was felt for an organization which would have for iis sole object the study of Elocution. Accordingly a number of the Senior students, recently under the able instruction of Prof. Griffith, have organized a society known as the ‘ Euglossian Association.’ The first regular meeting was held on the 12th iust., in Washington Hall, and the following officers were chosen for the remaining portion of the scholastic year; Director, Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C; President, W. T. Johnson; Vice-President, M. 0. Peterson; Secretary, John Gibbons; Treasurer, F. W. Pope; Critics: Messrs. S. L. Moore, and J. Campbell; Censor, Ivo Buddeke. We invite into our association all the earnest students who wish to cultivate a taste for, as well as to obtain, a thorough practical knowledge of Elocution, which enables a reader or speaker to convey clearly, forcibly and agreeably the meaning of what he reads or speaks. As we hope to be heard from again, we must not trespass on your limited space.” The Association has continued since that date without having any formal meetings, assembling regularly, however, two or three times a week for practice; and they have been under the continual guidance and instruction of their able and esteemed instructor, Prof. J. A. Lyons.
—The Minims’ field sports on the Feast of St. Edward were uncommonly amusing and interesting this year; they opened at two o’clock in the afternoon the Band, playing some lively airs. Among the hundreds of spectators we noticed Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers
98
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Granger, Cooney, Walsh, Roche, Stoffel, and Ford. Col. E. A. Otis, U. S. A., rendered valuable service by acting as marshal on the occasion. As all the Minims took part in the sports, we shall name only the winners: the first foot-race was won by J. Frain, who received as a prize a baseball; the second by G. P. Nash, prize, a small statue; third, by Donn Piatt, prize, an album; fourth, by W. Welch, prize, a ball; fifth, John J. McGrath, prize, a framed picture; the sixth by P. Campau, prize, a book; seventh, Otto Dillon, prize, a pair of slippers; eighth, A. Roberts, prize, a roast chicken; ninth, C. Quinlan, prize, a ball. The winners in the three-legged race were D. O’Connor and J. Nester for the first prize, a bushel of apples. P. P. Johnson and W. Devine in the second, prize, picture of Very Rev. Father General. In the third, F. Nester and W. Prindiville, prize, a book; in the fourth, P. Gibson and A. Otis, prize, a box of candy. The winners in the blindfolded race were D. O’Connor, prize, anal-bum; T. Ellis, an album; W.Berthlelet, a penknife; J. J. McGrath, an inkstand; P. Campau, a picture; A. Kelly, a penholder, and L. Young, a statue. Winners in the sackraces were D O’Connor, prize, a book; Tom Ellis, an album; F. I. Otis, a penknife; J. J. McGrath, an album; A. Kelly, a ball; P. Campau, a ball; A. Otis and C. Quinlan, a frosied cake and a book each. G. P. Nash won a frosted cake in the iat-boys’ race, and J. Ni si er a statue. J. Frain won a book for the mile-race; G. P. Nash a rosary, and C. Brandon a ball. The hop, step, and jump was won by J. Frain, prize, a statue; and J. Nester, as second, a cake. The boys who won in the wheelbarrow-race were F. Scott, whose prize was a ball; J. Nester, a s'atue; J. Chaves, a ball; L. Young, a book. In the obstructed race, J. Frain received a statue and C. Campau a cake. For longest throw of baseball Donn Piatt won a ball. The sports dost d at sunset, all feeling that there never was a happier feast of St. Edward Celebrated at Notre Dame.
M.Murphy, J. Nelson, N. Nelson, J. Orchard, J. O’Donnell, F. Orsinger, W. P. Pinkstaff, C. F. Porter, T. E. Kyan, A. L. Richmond, C. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, J. C Ruppe, W. J.- Ruprecht, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, C. D. Saviers, G. H. Schaefer, E. J. Schmitt, E. G. Tappan, D. G. Taylor, G. E. Tourtilotte, A. T. Taggart, D. Thomas', T. Williams, J. Wendell. M. J. Wilbur, P. J. Yrisarri, E. Zaehnle. C. Zeigler, F. Ryan, J. V. O’Donnell, J. Gallagher, A. W. Brewster, M. L. Foote.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. Piatt, E. Nash, J. F. Nester, J. A. Ruppe, W. T. Berthelet, J. L. Rose, J. J. McGrath, H. J. Ackerman, J. Kelly, A Kelly, J. A. Frain, E. 8. Chirhart, D. O’Connor, H. C. Dirksmeyer, O. P. Dillon, M. E. Devitt, M. T. Byrne, F. 8. Whitney. F. L Otis, A. J. Otis R. V. Papin, D. Prindiville, E. Adams, 0. Young, P. 8. Gibson, E. McGrath, L. P. Graham, D. L. McCawly,,C. Quin Jan, J. Tong, T. Norfolk, G. King, F. Scott, J. 8. Chaves, W. P. Devine, W. Welsh, J. T. Kelly, W. J. Miller, V. A. Rebori, C. H. McGordon, J. F. Coad, F. P. Nester, J. McGrath, P. E. Campau, T. Ellis, P. P. Johnson, C. S. Milburn, D. Prindiville, G. V. Gibson, J. Beall, C. E. Campau, G. Price, C. D. Brandom.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have' given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. Browne, E. Otis, E. Orrick, W. Arnold, J. O’Neiil, F. A. Quinn, J. N. Osher, W. W. Gray, J. Solon, A. Zahm, W. Schofield, F. Kuhn, E. McGorrisk, W. McGorrisk, M. Healy, E. Taggart, C. B. Van Dusen, R. Fleming, C. Tinley, J. McIntyre, G. Tracy, W. J. McCarthy, T. F. Clarke, F. W. Gallagher, W. J. O’Connor, W. H. Bailey, J. E. Walsh, T. Flynn, J. M. Falvey, J. Farrell, W. Cleary, R. Anderson, D. Danahey, 8. P. Terry, G. E. Clarke, N. Ewing.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has giver entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
K. Anderson, W. Arnold, J. C. Armijo, F. M. Barron, W. H. Bailey, E. J. Bryant, W. J. Browne, F. Baker, J. F; Browne, W. B. Berry, J. M. Boose, F. M. Bell, W. 8. Bolton, K. Becerra, J. Barry, M. T. Burns, 8. G. Clements, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, T. F. Clarke, C. Coughanowr, W. Cleary, C. E. Cripe, G. Clarke, A. D. Dorsey, J. Diury, J. P. Delaney, D. Danahy, B. Eaton, F. Ewing, R. E. Fleming, J. Farrell, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburn, J. J. Flynn, H. A. Gramiing, F. W. Gallagher, W. W. Gray, A. J. Golonski, F. Greever, H. A Hagan, M.F. Healy, A T. Jackson, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella F. E. Kuhn, J. Kindel, A.Kuntsman, M. Livingston, H. Letterhos, J. Larkin, J. Marlett, G. E. McErlain, A. Myer. F. X. Murphy, W. J. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, J. Millett, C. J. McDermott, J. A McIntyre, H. W. Morse, J. F. Marlin, W. McGorrisk, E McGorrisk, W. McEniry, J. Nash.'H. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, J. P. O’Neil), W. J. O’Connor, F. O Rourke, E. C. Orrick, J. N. Osher,E. A. Otis, F. Paquette. C. L. Pierson. S. Pillars, L. Proctor. F. A. Quinn, F. Rettio-, P. Rasche, W. E. Ruger, J. E. Schalk, W. Schofield, B. Schofield, J. Solon, W. E Smith, A C. Schiml, H. Steis, C. A. Tinley, E. J. Taggart, W. M. Thompson, G. S. Tracy, I. Treon, 3. B. Terry, C. B. Van Dusen, F. Wheatley, F. Ward. F. 8. Weber, J. A White, J. E. Walsh, E. JD. Yrisarri, J. V. Zettler, A F. Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. Browne, W. F. Bacon, E. Bailey, G. L. Cas-tanedo, A. J. Campau, J. S. Courtney, G. Cassell, A. M. Cogh'in, W. L. Coghlin, W. J. Cavanaugh, J. L. Castillo, A. M. Chirhart, M. Dolan, H. F. Devitt. C. Devoto, J. E. Drendel, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, Ed. Fischel, W. E. Freyermuth, J. H. Fendrick. B. French, J. C. Felix, J. Friedman, J. M. Flynn, L.. F. Florman, L. G. Gibert, H. E. Gilbert, W. M. Graham, M. 8. Gooley, J. J. Grever, E. B. Gerlach, J. W. Guthrie, E. F. Gall, A A Gail, P. G. Hoffman, N. H. Hess, H .D. Hibbeler, F. T. Hurley, E. A. Howard, G. J. Haslam, W. F. Hanavin, J. L. Heffernan, J. Halligan, W. Jeannot, C. Kollars, J. Kahman, W. Keenan, F. H. Kengel, H. A Kitz, 8. Katz, S. Lipman, F. C. Lund, J. Livingston, J. T. McGordon, W. G. Muhlke, G. A. Molander, J. 8. McGrath, T. E. McGrath, F. McPhillips C. M. Murdock, 8. T. Murdock, W. H. McCarthy,
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monlhly.—Directed of Studies.]
,	COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—N. Ewing, J. McIntyre,W. O’Connor; Greek—A. Zahm, N. Ewing; Moral Philosophy-----; English Composition—H. Steis,E. Fishel: Rhetoric—F. Kuhn; English Literature—J.H. McIntyre, N. Ewing; Criticism—W. J. McCarthy, J. O’Neill; Algebra—E. Taggart, W. Schofield, F. Dever, J. Millet, J. Guthrie,R Fleming; Geometry—W. Bailey, J. Solon, C. Tinley; Trigonometry—N. Ewing; Calculus—R. Anderson; Mechanics —E. Orrick, W. McGorrisk; Astronomy----; Physiology ---------------------------------------; Botany-; Zoology-; Mineralogy-; Physics—F. Kuhn, C. Vm Dusen; Chemistry-----------------------------------; History-.
O’Connor & Co.,
CHEMISTS AND DRTJCHG-ISTS
Royal Pharmacy, PRINCE ARTHUR’S LANDING, LAKS'SUPERIOR, ONTARIO, CANADA Dealers in
Amethysts, Agates, Chlorastrolites, Catseyes, Thompsonites, Native Silver, and Copper
Specimens, Quartz, Dog-tooth Spar, Indian Bark Work, etc.
Persons ordering any of the above from a distance will have their orders carefully attended to.	-