1
I
Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus. •
Volume X.
NOTRE DAMB, INDIANA, DECEMBER 2, 1876.
Number 13.
Some Time.
Some time, when all life’s lessons have been learned, And sun and stars for evermore have set,
The things which our weak judgments here have spurned, The things o’er which we grieved-with lashes wet,
Will flash before us, out of life’s dark night. As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue ;
And we shall see how all God’s plans were right, -And how what seemed reproof was love most true.
But not to-day. Then be content, poor heart!
God’s plans, like lilies pure and white, unfold.
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart, Time will reveal the calyxes of gold.
And if through patient toil we reach the land Where tired feet, with sandals loose, may rest, When we shall clearly know and understand,	.
I think that we will say, “ God knew the best! ”
—Exchange. „
The State of Man Before the Coming of Christ.
Through sin our first parents lost the state of sanctify and immortality in which they were created, and incurred the hatred and enmity of God. For their deliberate and voluntary transgression, enlightened as they were of His clearest, most simple, most precise and most important command, God inflicted on them the punishment deserved by so enormous a sin,—a sin of disbelief in God’s words, a sin of distrust in God’s ordinances, a sin of pride, sensuality, and of the most atrocious injustice against all their posterity. Immediately after their fall they experienced its fatal consequences: the fl'sh revolted against the spirit; they recognized that they were naked; their intelligence became blinded; they wanted to hide themselves amidst the trees of Paradise; their hearts were corrupted and their wills turned to evil. Adam, who at the first sight was so much delighted with his wife, now becomes her accuser, and blames God as the cause of his fall, when he says: The woman whom Thou hast given me, has deceived me; their sanctifying grace was lost, and with it the supernatural knowledge and love of God; they had incurred His hatred and had become alienated from good and turned towards evil. All the other consequences, such as the troubles of life, the loss of their dominion over nature, over Paradise, and of the immortality of the body, the curse on the earth, the temptations of the devil, and finally eternal damnation in case no redemption from sin would have followed, were but the effects of God’s hatred for sin and the requirements of His infinite justice.	■	'
These fatal consequences of the sin of our first parents were not restricted to themselves, but were equally ex
tended to all their posterity, since all their bodily and spiritual gifts, whatever they were, were destined to be shared by all their descendants. And although sin has not entirely ruined man, nor so utterly disfigured him that there is nothing of good left in him,—and as in the sacred font of holy Baptism we even are freed from all guilt, and our souls are truly justified,—still the natural consequences of sin always remain. They have never ceased to exercise the most terrible ravages among mankind; the human heart has always been aware of them, and frequently expressed its feelings in the most bitter complaints. Yea, the fact of innate sinfulness imposes itself so irresistibly on every observer of human nature, that even those that have renounced their religion either bv their way of living or by their principles do not dare to deny it.*
All heathen antiquity therefore mournfully assents to the words of Democritus, who justly says that “the whole of man is a sick mss from his birth,’’ f and Phaedra, in Euripides, complains: “A'ready several times during long nights have I investigated how the life of men has been corrupted. And thev seem to me to do the evil not through want of understanding, for there are many that h ive good sense; but such is the case: What is right we know, and dersland, but we do not do it.—some out of forgetfulness, others because they prefer some other pleasure to virtue, and the pleasures of life are many.” |
On this pissige Hartung, a famous German scholar, remarks that Phaedra here reflected on sin and the cause of our inherited sinfulness, and that she came to the conciu-sion that want of understanding by no means can be the cause of sin; for if understanding, which is supposed to be increased with every sin, had any ameliorating p >wer, sin would have disippeared long since.
Further on, among the Litin writers, Plautus says: “I knew well what I ought to have done; but, wretched I,' I was not able to do it.” § And Ovid compliins in the same manner: “I see what is better, and I approve of it. but I do what is bad.” | And in another place: “We strive always after what is not allowed, and desire what morality forbids Xenophon does not know how to explain his consciousness of sin otherwise than by accepting
* Bronssais. the father of materialism in France, says in his work De V irritation et de lafolie, that the child prefers evil to good.
+ See Democritus, ap. Pseudo-Hippocrates, L. I.
J Euripides, Hippolytus. verses 367-376.
§ Scibam, ut esse me deceret, facere non quibam miser.— Plautus Trinumus. Act IV, Sc. H.	•	•
| “........Video meliora proboque,	:
Deteriora sequor ”—Ovid, Metam., VII, 20, 21.
51 Nitimur in vetitum semper, cupimusque negata.
—Ovid, Eleg. TV, 17.
194	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
two souls in every man. And when he places the following words in the mouth of old Araspes, it is evident that in them Xenophon expresses his own conviction. He says : “For I have evidently two souls. This now I have investigated by the aid of the impious sophist Amor. For if there were in me but one soul, she could not be at the same time both good and bad, nor could she at the same time strive after both good and disgraceful things, nor could she at the same time wish and not wish to do the same things; but it is evident that there are two souls, and when the good one prevails good is done, but when the bad one prevails evil is done.” * Cicero, on the contrary, clearly expresses the inherited corruption of our soul, although in a doubting form: “ I fear,” says be, “ lest nature, as she has given us feeble bodies and has affected them with incurable diseases and unbearable pains, has also given us souls corresponding to these pains of the body, and, besides, afflicted with their own pains and inconveniences.” f Horace says on this subject: “Nobody is born without vices: but the best is he who is pressed by the least.” |
These are a few testimonies of pagan antiquity, to say nothing of the numerous similar complaints which we find expressed thoughout the writings of both the Old and New Testaments, and which are commented upon in such expressive language by the fathers of the Church. They already show that every thinking m m was well aware of the miserable condition to which mankind had been reduced and of the necessity of a commg Redeemer to re-es-tabli-h man in his primitive state of innocence and integrity.
But to persuade them of such a necessity and to inspire them with the greatest possible desire for the promised Redeemer, God made them experience all the misery sin had brought into the world. A sad experience indeed! Everywhere and in every relation of life sin had spread its deadly poison and reduced min to such misery that finally all mankind was at a loss what to do, and nowhere could expect relief except in a complete reform of the existing state of things.
In the first place, sin had destroyed the relation of man to his God and Master. The punishment for the first sin, terrible as it was, could not bring men to better sentiments nor make them resist the further temptations of the seducer. They gradually forgot their Creator and indulged in such sensual excesses “ that it repented God that He had made man,” and He said: “My spirit shall not remain in man for ever, because he is flesh, and his days shall be a hundred and twenty years.” § That is, this term was allowed man for repentance ere God would punish his excesses. Man however did not awail himself of this time, and God destroyed all mankind by a deluge, excepting the family of Noe, who was a just man. Nor could this striking example of God’s infinite justice permanently correct man, for even among the sons of Noe, the youngest of the three incurred by his shameless conduct against his father the curse of the
♦ Xenophon, Cyropaedia, lib. VI, cap. i, 41.
t Vereor enim, ne natura, quum corpora nobis infirma dedis-set, iisqne et inorbos insanabiles et dolores intolerabiles ad-junxisset, animos quoque dederit et oorporum doloribus con-gruentes, et separatim suis angoribus et moiestiis implicates.— Cicero, Tose. Quaest.,L. v, 3.
$ Nam vitiis nemo sine nascitur: optimus ille est, Qui minimis urgetur.—Horace, Sat., lib. I, s. iii, 68,69.
§ Gen., vi, 3.
latter, a curse which was extended to all his posterity, and	।
marked the beginning of slavery—a wound from which mankind in thousands of places is bleeding up to the present lime. Scarcely had a few centuries elapsed since the deluge, when God was obliged to punish the proud undertaking of Babel with the confusion of languages; when the horrible crimes of Sodom and Gomorrah provoked His anger to the destruction of these cities; when impiety and indolatry had taken such powerful root that God had to	,
call Abraham away from his family to preserve him from contagion, as He intended making him the father of all the faithful.
Later on we find the world sunk so deep in ignorance and vice that but a small portion of the descendants of Abraham, the Jewish nation, recognized and adored the true God, whilst the others, without exception, worshipped idols. S >me took the heavens, the dwelling of God, for God Himself, and paid the former .the honors that are due only to the latter,—as we find in the records of the Chinese; others fell down before the stars and planets that pass in the skies, imagining in the blindness of their idolatry that they saw in them the controllers of the destinies of men,—such were, for instance, the nations occupying the central and western parts of Asia; others again adored the powers that reign mysteriously in the elements.—in which class we may count the Greeks, Romans and Hindoos; others bowed down in the dust before single parts of nature, the plants and animals, and among the latter even the lowest orders of creation, such as snakes and crocodiles. Nay, man even fell deeper. The most disgraceful passions that arose in bis bosom he considered as gods, and paid them divine homage. As they advanced in art, they represented these deities in symbols and pictures which they soon confounded with the Deity Itself, and so adored the work of their own hands. As Bossuet expressed it: “Everything was God, except God only.” ,
Peculiar as were their gods, the veneration they paid them was equally so. They always sacrificed to their gods what they supposed these were most pleased with, and as they imagined them to be especially exasperated against man, and knowing full well, as they did, their own sinfulness, they endeavored to render them propitious by sacrifices of human blood. So that in every pagan religion without exception we find human sacrifices: a fact amply illustrated by Sepp in his “ Paganism.” After the sacri-flees of human blood came the sacrifices of chastity. Immorality was deified in the temples of the gods, and so universal was the sin of impurity that towards the latter days of pagan Rome, among a popula ion of more than seven millions who possessed the right of citizenship, scarcely six girls twelve years old could be found who, for the greatest distinctions and honors in the most opulent country In the world, would have consented to preserve their virginity to the age of forty for the service of the sacred fire which was constantly kept burning on the altar of the goddess 1 Vesta. The required number of vestals bad to be taken by	i
force from among the lower classes of citizens. So deep	I
could man sink into the slough of sensuality. Even the I' pagans themselves, in better moments, recoiled from such debasing immorality as then reigned throughout the Em-	j
pire, and one of their poets says:	1'
“ Keep away from that sanctuary there where the Nile-cow
(Isis) reigns,
Acourtezan wasshetoZeus; courtezans has she in her service.”	I
While sin had so far alienated man from his God and .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
195
Creator, it acted with no less fatal consejuen>’es on the relations of men to themseloes. The primary relations of the married state were radically changed Through sin all the foundations of matrimony, its indivisibility and indissolubility, disappeared. The wife had bicorns to min merely as a toy and a slave, a plaything to be changed at will; and already Limech, a murderer like his forefa'her Cain, took two wives, thus giving inception to the poiyg amy that afterwirds becane so common. E islaved as woman had become to man, it would have been for her a great favor bad she been allowed to subject herself to a husband, or rather to a future ruler and m ister, of her own free choice. But this was not allowed. The bridi was either taken from her father’s house by force or b night for a stipend, and so became the absolute property of her hnsbt id, of which he could freely dispose as he pleased. Not even did she possess equal rights over her own children, sine1 even up to the present dav there are countries where children celebrate the day of their passing from boyhood to manhood by a brutal whipping of their own mother.
Still worse, if possible, were the relations of children to their parents. Almost among all nations the father had an unlimited right over the life of his children, and childmurder was the ord ;r of the day. In R >me there were two places set apart for this purpose: one where children were cast away, at the foot of the Aventine, where the great sewer empties; the other at the so-called JI Ik Pillar in the vegetable market, where they were placed at the mercy of. the public rabble. These two places were- filled every day with heaps of children, and happy those who found there a speedy death! or there were persons who for filthy lucre's sake came every day to these places and selected from among the children still alive those who were the stoutest and healthiest and brought them up for such mercenary uses as their selfishness or desire of gain might destine them—the girls generally for purposes to which death, aye, a thousand deaths, would be far preferable, and the boys for gladiatorial cunbits. O’hers used them for beg ging, and for this purpose often mutilated and disfigured them in the most atrocious manner. N >r were the lives of those children gniranteed whom the pirents themselves brought up. In Rome a father coul 1 sell his child three times; and even among the Israelites, who yet considered their children as a blessing from Heaven, a father was allowed to sell his children like any other portion of his property. H >w well these assertions are founded in ty bi readilv understood when we see that even a Srneca could say: Our disfigured and feeble children w*- drown, just as we execute criminals.* It will not, then fore, be surpris ing to hear that children in their turn repaid their parents with a like measure, and that crimes of parricide were of frequent occurrence. And if men after ignoring the D:-vine law ac’ed thus against wife and children, their own fljsh and Wool, what must have been ths relations that existed between strangers!
From the views en’ertained by parents in those days, considering children as their absolute property, as mere chattels, we, as a necessary consequence, see a species of slavery as the result. And so it was. Shivery wis already introduced at an early age into the humin family and in after tim'*s more thin two thirds of the population of various countries were in a state of utter bondage. As to the relations that existed between one nation and another, we
♦ De ira, lib. I, c. 15.
need only say that the word stranger and enemy were synonymous terms. People were at peace only when their own advantage nqnired it; and in case of war, the conquered party, with all their possessions, became the property of the victor. No matter what form of government prevailed, the rider treated his subjects as a master would his slaves, unless prudence recommended him to do otherwise.
Finally then we may mention the unspeakable misery to which almost all minkind was reduced. Poverty and misery, as a const quence of the Fall, had become a law of nature, and consequently called for mutual help, mutual assistance in alleviating th :ir pains. But how differently had sin disposed man’s heart! The greatest moral philosopher of pagan antiq tity, Seneca, styles mercy a weakness, and pity a disease of the soul. All good people, says he, ought to be on their guird agai ist mercv, and no wise psr«on will be m »ved by pity.* And what Seneci expressed in words, all the world has practiced. For poverty there was no other remedy ihm slavery; and hence it came that the number of slaves increased conti lually. If we recapitulate all these disorders in social life, and remark i hat towards the end of antiquity all nations of the earth then known were suff:ring under the R »mm yoke, whose proconsuls tormented them and stripped them of everything, we have but a slight idea of the reality of the misery that prevailed upon earth previous to the coming of our Divine Redeemer.
No wonder therefore that all mankind united in the complaint against the Iron Age. and Virgil has certainly expressed the hopes aud expectations of millions when he wrote:
“ The last era of the Cumaean song is already arrived: The great series of ages begins anew. Now, too, returns the virgin, returns the reign of S iturn : now a newprogeny is sent down from high heaven. Be thou, O chaste Lncina, but propitious to the infant boy with whom first the iron age shall close and the golden ag: arise overall the world. Already thy own Apollo reigns. While th-m too. 0 Pollio, while thou art consul, this glory of our age make his entrance, and the great months sh ill begin to roll. IT ider thy conduct, whatever vestige of our guilt remain, shall, being done away with, release the earth from fear forever.”
And certainly thousmds, as-se ited when in the same song, he called upon the coming Redeemer: •
“Set forward. O great offspring of the gods, illustrious increase of Jove! on thy way to great honors; the time is now at hand. See the world, nodding to thee with its convex weight, the earth, the regions <>f the sea and the sublime heavens. See how all things rejoice at the approach of the coming age. Begin, little babe, to distinguish thy in t ter with a s nile f	N. S.
* Seneca. De Clem., L. II, c. 4,5.	*
t Virg., Eclog. IV.
“ Songs from the Southern Seas.”
Away down on that sunlit shore where the infant tides ain’ly rise and fall upon the sand-covered beach, where wild tropical birds flit silent 1 v through the deep green lux-uri mt foliage, bithing their brilliant plumage in the golden sunlight; amid forests wheie foot of man hath never trod, where gorgeous flowers captivate the sight and brilliant reptiles glide softly amid the tangled grasses; where guilty
196
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
man is banished to expiate his crimes in the grim slavery of unremitting toil,—a toil rendered terrible by its very hopelessness; where the very lees of society are crowded together like flocks in the shambles,—the poet soul has wandered and found beauty and symmetry amid the uncouth associations of the convict’s home. There is some, thing weird in those poems, coming to us from that far-off land, a region so distant we can hardly reach it on the wings of thought; something that chains the soul captive and opens newer and grander fields for the active imagina tion. There is, then, another world beyond those placid seas, a land
“ Of flowers and summer climes. Of holy priests, and horrid crimes,” the antipodes of civilization, the theatre of untold possibilities.
Of such the poet sings,—and J. Boyle O’Reilly is a poet of nature’s own choosing. Nothing can be more exquisite than the thrilling ardor of his verse; the full round lines reaching out and rolling above the monotony of thought in rich voluptuous cadences. Nothing can be more unique and simple than the tales he tells, and nought more beautiful than the mode of their expression.
It is said the true province of poetry is to nlease, to captivate, to intoxicate the senses, and Mr. O'Reilly’s musical soul fully appreciates the mandatory character of this law. To read his “Songs of the Southern Seas” without feeling a rich sensation of indefinable beauty is impossible. There is nothing lofty7 or unreal about them, and yet they are not prosaic, only faithful descriptions of the life that is interwoven closely with the moralistic^nofe of what ought to be. They reach not the intellect so much as the heart. Their simplicity is their greatest charm. Other poets than Mr. O’Reilly have understood this, and have won an immortality as kings and queens of song. Joaquin Miller has sung the songs of the pioneers of the western slope with a heart toned down by fellowship and sympathy in suffering. His poems have reached the popular heart because of that very sympathy and the exquisite melody of his ofttimes meaningless verse. John Hay too, and Will Carleton and Bret Harte, have aptly sung the songs they knew; the people have read their poems with positive delight, have thrown aside their critical caps, and with one accord have called their verses good; have wept over their touching pathos and read again and again. The man who shot Sandy McGee was no doubt a living character, as was also poor Cecily,and the honest old farmer relating his domestic troubles to the grave lawyer. Their lives are like our lives, their troubles like ours, and we wonder how the author has so cleverly delved into the hidden mine of our most secret thoughts.
Thus it is with the book before us. Those songs are not alone of the Southern Seas: they are alike for all times and places—the product of a soul that can feel and sypmathize with the great, throbbing, suffering pulse of humanity. It is very evident that Mr. O’Reilly has seen and felt the wrongs he so graphically describes. But the roundness and delicacy of his verse softens the undertone of dull, hard suffering; as when he says:
“It is only the lighter water that flies From the sea on a windy day, And the deep blue ocean never replies To the sibilant voice of the spray
And yet, through all, the wondrous beauty of that clime, lighted by stars our Northern children never gazed upon,
has stolen upon his heart like the delicate aroma of an unseen flower, and a rich mine of affection is opened to our view as he sings:
“O strange land, thou art virgin! thon art more, Thou barren fig-tree! Would that I could paint For others’ eyes the glory of the shore
Where last I saw thee; but the senses faint In soft delicious color when they drain
Thy wine of color. Virgin fair thou art, All sweetly fruitful waiting with soft pain
The spouse who comes to wake thy sleeping heart.”
Occasionally a strong, practical sentence leaps out from the almost oriental panoply of words. A more exact and fitting simile than the following would be difficult to find:
“ Who hides a sin is like a hunter who
Once warmed a frozen adder with his breath, And when he placed it near bis heart, it flew
With poisened fangs and stung that heart to death.”
And again, in the poem “The Spoken Words”:
“ How sad ’twould be to see a master’s hand
Strike glorious notes upon a voiceless lute!
But oh! what pain when, at God’s own command, A heart-string thrills with kindness, but is mute!
Oh! let the symphony of kindly words
Sound for the poor, the friendless and the weak; And He will bless you,—He who struck these chords
Will strike another when in turn you seek.”
With all its beauties, this little volume of poems, which comes trembling like a weary bird of paradise from that faraway Southern clime, is not without its faults. In many instances, and notably in “ The King of the Vasse,” the narrative, which seems to be used only as the canvas whereon to paint glowing pictures, is weak and insignificant—overdrawn beyond all semblance of reality, leaving upon the mind a very unsatisfactory impression. But this is readily forgotten as one reads on towards the end of the volume; and when at last he lays it down he is well pleased with the time spent in its perusal and only wishes there were more of it. If he were inclined to be critical he might condemn such dismal orthography as “ agen ” for “ again, ” and “ kist” for the past tense of that delightful verb, but he is inclined to regard it as a little idiosyncrasy of the proof-reader, and dismiss it from his mind. That Mr. O’Reilly is gifted with the genius of poetic expression there can be no doubt, and it is equally evident this volume has been accumulating amid the varied scenes of an active, restless life, even as pebbles gather in the shallow pools of a swiftly running brook.
The Great American Count.
BY B. HINDE, THE COUNTEB.
[The following has been sent us for publication in the Scholastic,’ and although we would prefer to keep aloof	,
from politics or political issues, we print it because of its	I
literary worth aud the fine vein of humor that pervades it.]
Have we a Count amongst us? Yes!—this centennial year of our independence has developed aristocracy to a	i!
fearful degree. It all depends now upon the Count,—liberty, union, and peace: our altars and hearths, our whole polit-ical, social and domestic welfare, depend upon the great American Count—the despot of the day!	£
On the election day we rose early—I and the Sun. I	1
earlier than usual; the Sun as early as the almanac would	I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
197
let him. I have often wondered that so brilliant and energetic a character as my friend the Sun should allow himself to be made a slave to the ignorant quack doctors who get up our popular almanacs,—it must be his spots that trouble him, or he never would be said by such men as Hostetter’s Bitters and Spalding’s Prepared Glue.
The sun rose without a thorn, thus setting a respectable proverb at defiance in honor of the occasion. Or, at least, if he had thorns they failed to pierce the veil of clouds that shrouded him from mortal sight. He looks with small favor upon popular elections. He is too used to hold unquestioned supremacy in his own sphere to tolerate the idea of dependence upon popular suffrage for its continuance.
Meanwhile the busy candidates had been going abroad betimes, scattering alms with profuse generosity, and endeavoring by good works to make sure their calling and election. Those also whom interest prompted or enthusiasm excited went early to the polls, and took a firm stand there to challenge the weak and unbefriended, and strike dismay into the souls of the dastardly.
Steadily rolled the ball. By midnight we shall know, said the better who had betted. By midnight we shall know, said he who had not betted, but was better off. And all agreed that as New York went, so the United States would go.
Wednesdiy morning dawned, and with it dawned the tidings that New York had gone Democratic. Great indeed was the jubilation thereat, and wild shouts of victory rent the air. Flags waved and Democrats shook hands with radiant faces, but prudent cannon forbore to boom. The Republican papers from Chicago indeed had thrown up the sponge, but those of Colfax’s city still kept up their figures, which stood 184 for Tilden, 181 for Hayes and Florida yet to hear from.
What had become of Cooper? The name of the patriarch was no longer heard in our midst. A few weeks before, editors were devoting themselves to his praise, while the populace even went so far as to raise poles in his honor. Yes: I speak truly—in the city of Grand Rapids, the sec ond in size of which our fair neighbor, Michigan, can boast, a city’ whose grandeur is indeed only equalled by her rapidity, as well becomes her name, I beheld a pole raised to the honor of Cooper and Cary. What sort of a pole it might be I had no opportunity to ask. The vital hickory is mo. nopolized by Democrats, and the specious tamarack by Republicans. This then could be neither. Vain followers of Mammon, incarnated as a Greenback, ye are no more! “ The Greenback, God and our Country,”—such was the motto of the Hammond Greenback Club; and it has gone the way of all that would strive to serve two masters in defiance of the Gospel injunction—of all that would impiously give the second place to Deity. And second to what? A rag!
Under the circumstances is it wonderful that a poetical friend of mine should attempt an epic? A poem in hexameter—like Longfellow’s “ Evangeline,” you know. He was reading it to me:
, Ringye the bells of joy! Makeready with cannon and torch-light! Shout a victorious shout in the standpiped city of Colfax!
Here he interrupted himself to explain to me that in English hexameter the great difficulty lay in finding spondees. “Longfellow’s spondees,” said he, “ are all trochees. Now a trochee, being a swift and lively measure, ill supplies the deliberate and magnificent march of the spondee. We
have but few real spondees in the English, but such as we have I shall endeavor to find and use in the sixth place. Now Colfax I regard as being a regular spondee.”
“Indeed then he is, sir,” slid Mr. McGillicuddy, entering just in time to hear the last words; “ and why wouldn’t he when he’s got the spondulicks to do it with ? ”
“ Sure it’s not that he means at all,” said Mr. Mc’s companion, “ it’s the despondency of the man he is alluding to, and faith it’s no wonder he would despond, when he sees—” •
Here the conversation was abruptly broken off by the entrance of a newsboy with the latest papers, and all hands rushed forward to exhaust the supply. Thus rolled away the hours of Wednesday, but with Thursday morning there ctime a change.
“ Breakfast Rolls,” said the baker’s boy; and “ let it roll ” responded I, recklessly. No breakfast for me till last night’s news is confirmed—till the solid South is announced secure for Tilden.
Had I adhered to my rash resolution I should have long ere this perished with hunger.
The returning board ne’er flitting, still is sitting; still is sitting On the ballot-box of Florida and Louisiana’s shore,
And its eyes have all the seeming that it still of Hayes is dreaming Though the flag above it streaming casts a warning at its door— And our freedom by that banner that stands floating at its door
Is protected—Evermore!	,
Yes! this centennial year shall not be the last of our freedom, in spite of the great American Count. Count is an ancient title. Some regard the patriarch Noah as having been the first to bear it. Hence the phrase applied to those who plume themselves upon being of an ancient race: “ He is of Noah Count.”
As to how this despotism of the Count may end, it matters not! The people of these United States know whom they have elected—who is the choice of a free people, and him they will sustain. Three proverbs must be our guide. —three proverbial expressions that form a natural triple chord of rhyme:
United we stand, and Divided we fall;
Though the weakest will certainly go to the wall.
Each one for himself, then, and God for us all.
Scientific Notes.
—George Smith, of the British Museum, famous for his Assyrian researches, died at Aleppo, August 19th, at the early age of thirty seven years.
—Daniel Colladon makes the study of the effects which lightning has on different trees a special one. He observes that poplar trees have a special attraction for lightning.
—At the Buffalo meeting of the American Association, Prof. W. C. Kerr, State Geologist of North Carolina, read a paper wherein he tried to explain the unstratified superficial deposits of North Carolina by a new hypothesis, supplementary to that of the Glacical Theory. He considers those deposits as land slides, or, as he terms them, earthglaciers.
—In regard to the Ice Age in Great Britain, R. Richardson cites facts to prove the shallowness of the ocean between Great Britain and Iceland-and Greenland, also of the German Ocean, and gives his reason for believing that during the ice period this was terra firma. He gives also, as the reason of coldness in those times, that the GulfStream was obstructed by this land, and could not convey the heat of the Mexican regions so far north.
—The death of one of the greatest microscopists of the
198
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Tnnle-s>up is evidently
Tne poem is po >r, even for a lord mayor.
age, Christian Elirenb.-rg is announced. He died June 27th, . —Tne Lord M iyor ot London his written a po.-m on lm_ at ihe age of eighty-two. He hid visited Egypt, where he aginatio i, of which it is said that it “appears to be alto-devoted six years to microscopic studies, especially of the gether lacking in that quality. Turtle-s >up is evidently lower organisms. On bis return he was app iinied Profes- not inspiring. Tne poem is po >r, even for a bird mayor. ’ sor in the medical faculty iu the Berlin U <iversity. In —It is worthy of note that the people who hissed Wag-1829 he accompanied Humboldt io Central Asi i. He is . ner>s music in Paris recently continued to hiss when the the author of numerous woiks upon microscopic beings,	'	_ — . .	.
his favorite investigation being the infusoria.
—A peculiar instance of the sense of hearing in bees is related in Newman’s Entomologist. A swarm of bees hav ing been gathered, the hive was placed temporarily on a table. On lifting the bee-lnve to place it on its regular stand, the bees were all found to remdn on the lable. The hive was placed so that Die opening faced the bees. None ■would enter, till al last a vibrating buzzing sou .d proceeded from the hive. In an instant, all ihe bees faced the hive and marched in regular procession into it. They had followed the call of the queen-bee.
—A living gorilla has been brought to Europe from Africa, by the remnant of the Gussfeidt expedition. Tne animal is in good condition, and is placed i«» the Zoological Garden at Berlin. He is two years old. Well, we will see whether evolutionists can make a human being out of him. The gorilla is the fancied link between ihe bruie and man. Whether he is or not remains to be proved, but we would refer the reader to the little wotk of St. G orge Mivart, “Man and the Apes,” and he will be convinced tuil the lowest ape can be the missing link just as well, as, piobably belter than, the gorilla.
—The first geological inform Uion from the State of Ohio was obtained in 1836, whe.i that science was yet in a crude' state. We have no w a complete geological report, iu 4 vols., of that Slate. Tne offiiers appointed by the L-gislaiure of 1869 were Prof J S. Newberry,chief geologist; Edward Orton and E B. Andrews, assistant geologists; T. G. Worm-eley, chemist; F. M. Meek, paleontologist; besides a number of local assistants. They commenced their work June 1st, 1869,and finished June 1,1874, al a cost of .$256,000, including the publication of four volumes. Thus far mere have been published two volumes on geology and two o.i p.ile-outology; two other volumes are far adva <ced in composition, one on economic geology, a.id one oa zoology, botany, and agriculture
—Prof. 0. C. Marsh, of Yale College, in a lecture to the graduating clas*, summed up Ihe results his paleontological r< searches in the Rocky Mountains. In regard to the growth and size of the brain iu mammals, he says: 1. All tertiary mammals bad sm <11 brains. 2. There was agradual increase in the size of me brain during this period. 3. This increase was mainly confined to the ceri bral liemispher.-s 4. In some groups the convolutions of the brain have gradually become more com plicated. 5. In some tnecerebellum and even the olfactory lobes have been diminished. At the conclusion ot the lecture, Prof. Maisli stated that his field-labors were essentially completed, and that all the fossil remains collected, a<.d in part described, were now iu the Yale College Museum. Piot. Marsh should now devote his time io the full description of the fossil, so that our hopes may some day be realized, namely, the publication of the results of his researches.
obedient orchestra played the overture to ‘Der Freischutz.'* Tney could not distinguish between Wagner a id Weber.
—Tne GtelicS >ciety of London has announced the issue of the melodies of the Highlands, with piano forte accompaniments, by Herr L mis K mig, in order that the Gaelic vocal airs may be preserved as well as the popular dance tunes.	•
—Mr Peter O’Leary, author of “Travels in C tnada, the Red River Territory, and the United States,’’ has just returned to England from a tour through the northern and western states of America, and is now engaged in prep tring a work on “ Tne Irish in E igland,” which is to be published in America.
—The latest Bulletin of the Boston Public Library contains notes on the editions of “Two Noble Kmsmen’’ and “The Yorkshire Tragedy ” among the doubful Shakspeare plays. Li the next issue, the tran-enpt from the Shakspeare part of the British Museum Catalogue, accessible only in MS., will be begun.
—General Cesnola, whose first collection of antiquities from Cyprus w is transported to America several ye irs ago, is now again in England, bringing with him the results of further reseirch. Tne c dlection, which is particularly rich in examples of antique jewelry, has, we understand, been offered to the Trustees of the British Mu<eum.
—The Nation says that Joaquin Miller is “rather a brilliant savage than a man whose tastes naturallv put him into relations with the educated public.” The New York Herald says that the warm-blooded poet of the Sierras may be seen on any fair diy bugging the sunny side of Broadway and gazing with dreamy blue eyes at the streams of passers-by.
—The assertion that the Bing des Nibelungen is to be repealed next year at Biyreuth is open to grave doubts. It is true ihat the Corporation have offered to make good the pecuniary deficit of 60,000 marks resuming from the Festival
I Performances in August, hut only on condition th it Herr Wagner shall produce in 1877: Fidelio, Olympia, Jessonda, Oberon, Don Juan, and Tannhuu*er.
—Mr. Ruskin is occupied at Venice in studies for the completion of a supplementary volume to “The S'ones of Venice,” a work in which he has made considerab e progress. Mr Ruskin is likewise occupied in the preparation of a work which cannot but b -, highly acceptable to students and visitors in Venice, being a sort of art guide or art-history of the masterpieces existing in the city.
. —The Celtic Magazine says that Maj. Gen Stewart-Allan is writing a history of ihe Munro Clan Tne Clan produced some noiabl: military officers, especially the “Black Baron,” who distinguished himself in the wars of Gustavus Adolphus. 1.1 the Swedish service, there were, at one lime, not less than three gem-rals. eight colonels, five lieutenant-colonels, eleven majors, and about thirty captains, all of the name of Munro, besides a great number of subalterns.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Bayard Taylor says theie are more than 209 artists iu New York city, and hardly more than fifty litterateurs.
—	A curious holiday book is offeicd by a Cincinnati house—“Suakspeare’s Seven Ages, with photographs from Nature.”
—	Liszt is refusing all invitations to play in public, and spends his time ai P<.sth, teaching the pupils at the Academy ot Music.
—	“ The Trumpets of Bayreuth; or, the Musical M issacre of the Masses,’’ draws crowded houses al a subuibau theatre of Munich.
—	The autotype fac simile of the commonplace book of the poet Milton, edited by A. J. Horwood for the Royal Society of Lileratuie, is just ready m London.
—The complete list of candidates to fill the chair at the Academy rendered vacant, bv th • death of Felician Divid is giv n by the Revue et Gazette Musicale an follows: Messrs. Giulio Alary, Adoipiie Blanche, Adrien Boieldieu, Ernest B mln ger, Jules Dupraio, Antoine Elwari, Edwin Mem-bree, Ernest Reyer, Tbeophile S men', Adolphe Vogel. From , this listthe musical selection of the Academy chooses not less t han three and not more than five. To this number tne Academv usually adds too, and from these candidates the fi <al selection is made.
—The new opera, “ Dolores,’’ pro luced at Bologna, on the 12'h ult.. proved a fdlure, despite the popularity of Mme. Gallelti, who sustained tne chief character. Thecom-poser. Signor Auteri. is a Sicilian, who h «s joined the Wagnerian school. “ Rienzi” was expected to be brought out the end of last month. Meyerbeer’s “ Africaiue ” was performed at the Teatro Commuaale with a good orchestra and tolerably good singers, but the mise en scene was ridicu
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	190
lous, as the impresario h id borrowed the scenery of the little theatre in Pfirma, which was too small for Bologna.
—A Paris dispatch to the Lo idon D lily Telegraph announces the production of “LaBoiteau Liit,” by Offenbach, at the Varieties The critic says: “ The skeleton libretto is slight for the ma-s of music with which it is covered, and, to say sooth, the drapery is not always rich enough t<> conceal the angularity of the outline. It may seem ungrateful to reproach a composer with his activity, but if M Off-nbach were to limit his labors to the production of say two operas in the year, instead of bringing out five or six. the public would gain bv the lo<s. At the same time, amid much that is trivial, “ La Boiteau Lait ” contains many' catching melodies, invariably set off by an orchestration which has never been rivdled, even b»i Oftenbich himself, in neatness and effect. The opera is excellently played, Mmes. Daubray and Theo and Paola Marie being the principal artists.”	.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from Jansen, McClurg & Co., a copy of “Deirdie” of which we will give an extended notice in a few weeks.
First Fam’lies or the Sierras. By Joaquin Miller, Author of “Songs of ihe Sierras,” “Songs of the Sun-Lands.” “ The Ship in <he Desert,” etc Chicago : Jansen, McClurg & Co. 1876. 12mo. Pp. 268. Price $1.50.
We cannot say that we are an enthusiastic admirer of the writings of Joaquin Miller. His faults are numerous, and such that no excuse can be mide for them. In the “First Fam’lies of the Sierras,” with all its faults, we must, however, recognize a spirited and realistic sketch of mining life in the early days of California. His characters are real, such as lived on the Pacific Slope when the great tide of emigration fl >wed towards the gold mines when pouring forth their wealth. The story abounds with wit and humor, and the dramatic scenes are marked with pathos. The 8ax<m simplicity of his words throws a charm over the work, and the poetical character of his pro<e covers a multitude of faults, and renders the book delightful reading.
—The Popular Science Monthly, for December, is to hand. This magazine, conducted by E. L. Youmans, and published by D. Appleton & Co., New York, has this month a very interesting table of contents. The special object of the Monthly is to popularize science, a noble object in itself, and one which is carried out in this magazine in an able manner. People in general have a certain awe for science, because of its-secrets and its bold conclusions. By some, science is looked upon with suspicion; bv others it is hailed with joy, as a new and powerful auxiliary to assist infidel views, which in these latter ages have assumed a position so b>>ld and defiant. People have gone so far as to assert confidently that we cannot uphold the teachings of Revelation unless we shut our eyes to the evidence of science; and that we cannot pursue the study of science if we are not prepared to renounce Faith and the belief in the doctrine of Revelation. But every true scientist knows, or should know, that Religion and science do not conflict, cannot conflict, when science is taken in its true light; for both Religion and objective science come from the same source, God. People competent to judge for themselves as to truth or error may read such magazines as tend to make known the principles of science, and draw their conclusions. The Popular Science Monthly is the only magazine that devotes itself to general science. All we find reprehensible in it is that it defends with too great stress the theory of evolution, and in many of its articles defends views which savors of materialism, the prevailing creed, if it can be called such, of those who would be ranked among the advanced scientific thinkers of the day. A little caution in this respect would speak better for the judgment of the editor of the Monthly. The contents of the December number are: I, Fermentation and its Bearings on the Phenomena of Disease, by John Tyndall; II, The Protection of Buildings from Lightning, by Prof. J. Clerk Maxwell; III, Mormonism from a Mormon Point of View, by Daniel Wedderburn; IV, More Concerning Mechanical Tools, by Rev. A. Rigg; V. What American Zoologists
have done for Evolution (Continued), by Prof. Edward Morse; VI, The Laws of Health, by Thomas Bond; VII, Canine Sagacity; VIII, Prof. Huxi-y’s Second L-cture; IX, On Variation of Moths, by Au?. Grote; X, The Constancy of Milton, by George Iles; XI, Sketch of Professor A M. Maver (with Portrait); XII. Correspondence; XIII, Editor’s Table, Literary Notices, Miscellany, Notes. We have not snffi dent sp ice to notice particularly e ich of the articles. Scientific men should read this m tgazine, as it always give them articles on the leading questions of the day. Of course we are not bound to accept all the views of the magazine; but, then, we should take it (to use the compiler’s own words in his E liior’s table in the November number, when speaking of Dr. Draper's work in Rome) to refute the erronous doctrine cbn'aiiied in it.
—A French field marshal, who had attained that rank by court favor, not by valor, received from a 1 idy the present of a drum, with this inscription: “ Made to be beaten.”
—Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, was accustomed to give an annual feast, to which she invited all her relations, many of whom were expectant legatees tn case of her demise. At one of these family gatherings she exclaimed: “ What a glorious sight it is to see a number of branches fl mrish from the same root!’’ “ Alas! ” sighed Jack Spencer to a first cousin next to him, “the branches would flourish far better if the root was under ground.”
—The fresh water aquarium is easily constructed and requires less skilful management than the marine tank. It .-h >uld be square or hexagonal, as curved surfaces distort the forms of the inmates,and a greater number of sides in-creises the liability to leakage. Where metal corner-posts are used, they should be plated if possible, as the oxidation of the metal often results disastrously. The glass plates should be held in position by hydraulic cement; that known as Scott’s is highly recommended. Where putty only is available, it should be painted, the tank filled with water for a week or more, and then carefully cleaned before receiving the fishes and plants. The bottom should be covered to a depth of an inch or more with well-washed river sand, and its surface thickly strewn with pebbles; clay or mould should be avoided, both because of the vegetable germs it may contain, and because its frequent disturbance by the fish renders the water turbid. The use of tastefully arranged rockwork adds greatly to the beauty; but rocks containing metallic substances should be rejected; and where shells are used they should first be well soaked or calcined, in order to destnw all organic matter contained in them. In constructing these arches or columns, Portland cement may be used to advantage, and some point of the structure should project above the water-level. Thus arranged, the tank, which should be at least twelve inches deep, may be filled with fresh spring or river water to within an inch of the top, and it is then ready for occupation. Such fresh-water plants as the butomus nymphata, and alisma, should have their fibrous roots extended and gently embedded in the sand, with a layer of pebbles to keep them in position. AU river plants that bud and root from points on the stem, as anacharis,ranunculus, callitriche and chara can be raised by securing them in tufts to the sandy bottom by a light layer of pebbles. There are certain plants which, in addition to beauty of structure and vigorous growth, are of great service as oxygen producers; such are the valisneria spiralis, water thyme [anacharis alsinastrum), with the flowering water crowfoot [ranunculus aquatilis), milfoil, and starwort. Though the stocking of the aquarium depends largely upon the purpose it is to serve, yet caution is needed as to the number and habits of the inmates. A young pickerel only an inch and a half long has been known to devour 25 minnows in a week. For general interest, the stickleback takes the lead among the fishes, and for beauty the gold fish, tench, gudgeon, perch, minnow, and Prussian carp all flourish, with snails and mussels as purifiers. Where the proper balance is not easily maintained, and the renewal of the water is difficult, it may be revivified by dipping out and pouring back in a small stream from a proper height. An excess of sunlight is apt to encourage the growth of a minute green fungus; besides unduly elevating the temperature, which should range between 40° and 60e.
200
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre' Dame. December 3, 1^7"G.
Single Copies of THE SCHOLASTIC may now be procured at the Student’s^ffice, at Five Cents per copy.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum,Postpaid. Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
Our New Advertisers.
Since our last issue we have received but one more card from an old student, and it may be found in the regular advertising columns. The card-is that of Mr. James E. McBride, of ’68. Mr. McBride is a graduate of the Scientific Class of 1868, and is the Judge of the Police Criminal Court of.the city of Grand Rapids, and has been acti.ve in the practice of law since April, 1870. He is a graduate from the Law Department of Michigan University, and has an extended lucrative practice. James E. Millard, bis partner, is recently from Fond du Lac, Wis., and has practiced law for about a year and a half The boys of '65. ’66. ’67, and '68 all know Mr. McBride and can safely trust business in his line to his care. He was one of the first editors of the Scholastic, and. as a consequence, we take additional pleasure in recommending him to our p itrons.
We expect in a short, while to receive the advertisements of most of the old students and recommend that in the bestowal of patronage they be preferred to all others.
Opportunities for Doing Good.
If we are inclined to do good in this world we need spend little time in finding opportunities for it. Indeed, whatever may be the circumstances of an individual, at every turn he will find an occasion for the exercise of the principles required in order to do good. Be he found in the learned professions, or in the humbler but not less useful walks of life, opportunities will constantly occur for lending assistance, or adding a blessing, in some way, to fellow travellers on the same road. But,as a general rule, it is not the inquiry among men, “ How shall I add to the sum total of human happiness?’’—but, “How shall I increase my individual happiness?” And in nine cases out of ten the practical answer to this question is erroneous.
It is not by constant selfish aims, however successfully those aims may be prosecuted, that we are to secure the happin-ss which the great Author of our being has put within the reach of all; but a man who seeks the good of others enj »ys more true happiness than can be realized by one selfishly bent upon his own aggrand’z ment. It is often the case that that which is most ardently sought and most actively and sedulously pursued, has in itself the poison of every pleasure, and instead of affording sweetness, embitters the whole life, and makes everything wear a sombre aspect. But such is not the case when one lays aside his selfishness, and a-ks, in the sincerity nf his soul: What can I do to serve my generation, and to bk-ss and comfort those
in distress? There is true enjoyment for everyone, if he can be prevailed upon to pay the price. Before a harvest of peace, there must be a seed-time in which with a plentiful hand we have sown the requisite seed. If we go forth, spreading peace and joy wherever we go, we shall return in the evening to view the flowers which have sprung up by our care, and to see the golden grain of peace and content waving in glorious beauty along our pathway.
' It is impossible for the man who is dispensing goodness and causing the smile of joy where despair and wretchedness was before, to be unhappy; he must in the very nature of things be blessed in blessing, be comforted in comr forting. and be happy in producing happiness in others. In every step in our lives there are opportunities for doing good to others immediately, and to ourselves ultimately, for it will return to our bosoms making all right there, and all peaceful as the calm of a summer’s eve. Such being the case, is it not wonderful that we do not try to exercise it upon all within our reach, and never to cease in our works of benevolence so long as there is the breath of life within us!
There is more genuine happiness in the world than most people are prepared to believe. It is only by missing the mark that men are coming short of their expectations. It is by looking in a wrong direction, and striving in an improper manner, that men fail to secure the bliss they so much desire. Instead of looking at one’s self, and bending every energy of the soul to the accomplishing some purpose in which self only is to be found, let him set himself to work to roll away from earth just as much misery as he can. Let him by every means within his reach seek to spread joy and peace around. Let him commence with the first object which presenis itself, and in the fulness of his heart at once set about doing something to benefit, to bless, and it is impossible for this to be done without causing light and sunshine in one’s own breast. If any have doubts of the truth of our statement let them set about this business and experiment a little, and if they do not find this a sovereign panacea for any misery that may before have been theirs, we will charge them nothing for the recipe we have given. It is impossible to bless .without being blessed.
How to Study.
It is a well-known fact that, so far as the physical system is concerned, a man can endure but a certain amount of labor in a given time, and, that after such labor, rest is necessary to restore the body to its natural vigor and prepare it for new exertion. If a man engage in active exercise for an hour or two, his physical powers become more or less exhausted according to the greater or less violence of the exercise; and should he continue such exercise beyond the point of weariness, he cannot fail to do himself an injury which will temporarily, or perhaps permmently, diminish his c ipacity for exertion, and thus render him less capable of benefiting himself or others.
It is also a fact that of two.men possessing equal strength, who do an equal amount of work in a given time, the one who performs his work in a hurried and excited manner will be much more fatigued, and, consequently, .will require more rest to re-establish his natural vigor, than the other who performs his work in a quiet and deliberate manner. And, moreover, the latter will, as a general thing, do his work better than the former.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
201
Now, the same laws which govern the body, in respect to labor and rest, govern also the mind in its present state of union with the body; for we must remember that the mind, in man’s present state of existence, operates through the brain, which is a part of the physical system. The mind itself never becomes weary or exhausted, but the brain, the instrument of our mental operations, does become fatigued when vigorously employed for a length of time, just as the muscles of the body become fatigued after a bertain amount of exercise, and it requires rest to restore its tone and vigor, just as much as do the muscles, under similar circumstances, and any effort to use the brain beyond its natural power of endurance is a serious detriment, often inducing permanent injury.
To know, then, that method of study by which the greatest amount of labor can be performed with the least fatigue to the brain, is of the utmost importance to the student, and the following hints, we are satisfied, will place him in possession of that, knowledge.
We said, in speaking of the effects of physical exercise upon the body, that he who should perform a certain amount of labor in a hurried and .excited manner would be more fatigued, and consequently require more rest afterwards than another of equal strength who should perform the same work calmly and deliberately. So it is, also, in the intellectual order. The student who undertakes to master a certain amount of science in a given time, and enters upon his work in an excited and anxious manner, or with that feverish sort of fear that he will not be able to accomplish his task in the allotted time, wearies his brain more by such anxiety than by the study actually required; the consequence of which is that he afterwards requires more rest to restore the vigor of his brain: and if he does not take that rest—(and students of this class seldom do)—he goes on gradually but surely exhausting the strength of his brain, and, consequently, tbe vigor of his mind, till he is finally obliged to abandon study for weeks or months, perhaps for years, simply because he can no longer apply his mind to serious work, and, in many cases also, because his physical health has been broken down by the constant unnatural strain upon the mind.
On the other hand, the student who enters upon his work calmly, determined to master, within the allotted time, as much of the subject as he can with a reasonable degree of industry, will, in all probability, do his work better, and certainly will fatigue his brain less, require less time to recover the force or strength expended, feel far more happy and contented, and, what is of the utmost importance, preserve his health. Even though the quiet student should, on this or that particular occasion, show to less advantage in the class-room (which is not very likely) he will, nevertheless, at the close of each year, have acquired a greater amount of actual information than the anxious student, and return home with his strength and spirits but slightly if at all diminished, while the other will require the entire time of vacation to nurse his shattered health, and prepare himself for another term of study, thus losing in part, at least, the enjoyments of home, which naturally should be his after ten months of absence.
But there is another point to which the student should attend particularly: namely, a proper degree of physical exercise. The brain being a part of the physical organization, its health and vigor depend in a great measure upon the health of the body, and the latter depends mainly, after healthful nourishment, upon a due proportion of physical
exercise. It is to secure to the student an opportunity for this necessary exercise that in all schools and colleges certain hours of each day and, in many of them, an entire day in each week, is set apart for play and recreation, and the student who has his own welfare at heart will be as careful to profit by these recreations as he is to use the hours of study diligently, knowing that for every hour of study time which he gains by neglecting the requisite physical exercise, he will sooner or later be obliged to pay a severe penalty, and not unlikely meet with failure in the end.
It is really painful to those who know what the consequences inevitably must be to see students who, in spite of all advice, insist upon spending their hours of recreation in study, to the detriment of mind and body.
We sincereb’ trust that our readers will give the matter serious consideration, and act upon the suggestions which we have given.
“ Work while you work, play while you play; This is the way to be happy and gay. ”	.
And do both at proper times and with due moderation.
Personal.
—We were pleased to receive a call from Prof. Stace on Tuesday last.
—Homer C. Biardman (Commercial, of ’69) lives at Lyons, Iowa.	%	___.
—	Alexander Perea, of ’65, owns a large ranche at Bernalillo, New Mexico.
—	William A. Walker (Commercial, of’68.) is in business at Malden, W. Va.
—	Mr. A. G. Schmidt, of Chicago, visited his son at Notre Dame on Thanksgiving day.
—	Robt. Hunter (Commercial, of ’75,) is in the dry-goods business in Marseilles, Ill.
—	David Fitzgerald (Commercial, of ’68) is doing a large business at Kildare, Wisconsin.
—	Mr. N. Stoffel has gone to Watertown fora few weeks in hopes of recruiting h;s health.
—	Major Dunbar and lady, of Waukesha, Wis., spent several days at Notre Dame last week.
—	Chas L Saylor (Commercial, of’76,) is teaching school near Flat Rock, Paulding County, Ohio.
—	Henry W. Walker, of ’74, is in the real estate and insurance business with his father, in Chicago, Ill.
—	Sturgis R. Anson (Commercial, of ’68) resides at Marshalltown, Iowa, where he is doing a good business.
—	J. J. Brennan (Commercial, of ’75) is the senior partner in the firm of J. J. Brennan & Co., Alton, Illinois.
—	Herbert H. Hunt (Commercial, of ’75) is in the employ of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy R. R., at Plattsmouth, Nebraska.
—	Among the visitors last week were Lieut. Geo. Ruh-len, 17th Infantry, U. S. A.; Dr. V. L. Hurlbut, E. O. Seymour and lady, aud Miss Emma Stiles, of Chicago, III.
—Frank Keller (Commercial, of ’76.) passed through Notre Dame on Tuesday last on his way to Kewannee. Ill., where he takes charge of the bonks of the O'Brien Brothers.
—We are pained to announce the death of Mr. James Marks, Sr., of Chicago, III., the father of James, Louis, and Joseph Marks, who have at various times attended class at Notre Dame. His sous have our sympathy in their bereavement.
.	Local Items.
—Navigation closed on Thursday last, the 30th ult.
—There was some very good sleighing this last week.
—Thanksgiving day was pleasantly spent by everybody.
202
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Prof. O. M Schnurrer will give the next lecture of the course.
—The Scholastic Almanac will be out on the 15th of this month.
—B Francis has hid his hearse newly painted and repaired lately.
—The imnthly Bulletins were rnide out and sent off this last week.
—The Coin nbians have purchased a fine bust of Columbus fortheir hall.
—Some Juniors went out tracking rabbits in the snow on Wednesday afternoon.
—B. Crispinian’s return to the Senior refectory was received with great r< juicing.	■
—We understand that the Cantata will not be given at the soiree next Tnursday evening.
—The Librarian of the Circulating Library has received a number of volumes the few weeks past.
—We are. glad to see that our friend D. J. Hogan has secured so effluent a pirtner. Hog in needed fanning.
—The Wednesdav catechetical instructions from this time forward are tn be given in the College chapels.
—The Minims are thankful to Very Rev. Fr. General for a fine pair of doves which he presented to their siudy-hall.
—A number of boxes having come before Thanksgiving day, the recipients gave their friends a number of lunches.
—The S'. Chilians are now engaged ir preparing for their grand Exhibition, which will come off on the 12th of December.
—Remember that classes will not cease until the 22d, We might. al-o add that they will resume the second day of January, 1877.
—Rev. P. Golovin piid a visit to the Junior stndv-hall on Monday evening. He spoke on politeness and rules of etiquette in general.
—The members of the classes of calisthenics take great pleasure in the hall o’ evenings. They are making decided improvement.
—A. Sievers, J. Rothert, and Paul Schnurrer have be come members of the Orchestra. M. Kauffman now plays one of the first violins.
—The steam-pipes in the church are being overhauled for the purpose of making the church more comfortable as regards heat, during the winter.
—The Juniors are well represented on the roll of honor this week. It seems ho wever that they fell short of the required number. Try again, boys !
—The anunal retreat of the Catholic pupils at St. Mary’s will, we understand, take place next week. It will be preached by Rev. P. P. Cooney.
—The picture-store of B. Xavier in the Franciscan building, opposite the College, is open every Wednesday at one o’clock in the afternoon. -
—The lower lake was frozen over on Thanksgiving day but not enough to bear up onskites. The upper lake obstinately refused to succumb to the cold.
—Why will people throw water out of the window? It sometimes causes very serious inconvenience to passersby, and is a great temptation to profanity.
—Mass was said in the two chapels for the students on Wednesday last for t he first time. The boys find the chapels far more comfortable than the large church. ,
—Both Seniors and Juniors had an extra rec. the evening before Thanksgiving day. We heard the Juniors singing “11 Corpo di Giocmni Bruno" a half mile off.
—It is expec’ed that the young gentlemen of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association will give us an excellent programme, on the evening of their Entertainment.
—No one should go without a copy of the Scholastic Almanac. Th<-Editor of thi-piper has no interest in it further than to desire that Mr. Lyons loses no money on it, hence we say that every one should take a copy.
—We call attention to the advertisement of the Scientific American, which may be found in another column. There
is no paper devoted to the interests of inventors and scientists more worthy of attention than this excellent weekly.
—We will publish next week the programme of the Entertainment to be given by the St. Cecilians on the 12' h. The we k after we w ill give the programme of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association’s Literary Entertainment.
—It. is death to rabbits anl ducks, now, when the nimrods >f the Collegeare around. S >me verv pr< tty shots were mule, the gunners throwing themselves into positions which cast the poses of the American Team into the shade.
—It was amusing to see so mi ty stu lents, before mail ing the last Scholastic to their parents, cutting out the item announcing that classes would continue until the 221 of Dec. They did not know that copies of the paper were sent by other parties.
—We understand that Bulletins are to be made out and sent home for the month of December some time during the holidays. All should labor hard for the coming three weeks in order t hat they may receive good bulletins, and end the year well.
—The Scientific American states that the most hurtful method of smoking is the Cuban paper cigare'te, where the deleterious fumes of burning paper are added to those of the exceedingly strong tobacco enveloped. Those who smoke on the sly should beware.
—We learn that there is a general desire among the Seniors to have a gymnasium in the room at the east end of their hall. It would be a good thing, supplying a want long and keenly felt, and aff ird healthful i.idoor exercise when the apparatuses in the yard are snow-and-ice-bound.
—Vespers for to morrow is of St. Peter Chrysologns, wi«h commemorations of the first Sunday of Advent, St. Francis Xavier, and St. Birhara. For psalms, antiphons a id hymn, see pages 48 and 49 of the Vesperal. For the 8>h of D -cember, see page 111 of the V'-sp^ral. There are also commemorations of St. Eutychianus and the Feria.
—The reorganization of the Scientific Association took place Nov. 27th. The following officers were elected: President, R-v. J. A. Zihm; Vice-President, W. T. Ball; Secretary, J. G. Ewing: Corresponding Secretary, H. C. Cassidy; Treasurer, N. J. Mooney. The Society, it is expected, will <lo a great deal of hard work, and will no doubt comeuptothe standard al ways demanded of t he Scientifics. It has been .proposed that they give a public Entertainment during the year. The time for this has not yet been fixed, but it is supposed that it will oe sometime in February.
—We would call the attention of parents to the fact that for the Christmas vacation the students going home will start on the 22d. AU are particularly requested not to ask for their sons to come home before that time, as it seriously deranges t he classes here. It would be far better not to have any Chrismas vacation; but as many of the parents desire their sons at home during the holidays the authorities here are forced to grant it. Classes will positively be continued up to the 22d, notwithstanding anv reports to the contrary which may be set afloat by students wishing to leave before that time.
—The following is the programme of the musicil soiree to be given on the evening of Dec. 7th in Phelan Hall: “ Belisario ”—Donizetti...................  Orchestra
“ MSdle Ruck”—Violin Solo...........................M. Kauffman Overture to “Oberon’’—Weber............String Quartette
“La Filledu Regiment”—Violin Solo........J. McHugh “ Away, away to fields of green! ”.......Choral Union
Duo for Cornetts..............H. McGuire and L. Evers
Fantasie for Violin...................................
“ There’s a Sigh in the Heart ”—Duo...........
..............................J. Davis and 0. Lindberg Beriot’sllth Air—Violin Solo..J. Burger
“ The Laik”.............................Brass	Quartette
Potpourri from “Semiramis”—Violin Solo A. Sievers Overture to “ Das Nachtlager Kreutzer. .String Quartette “ Homeward Bound ”..'....................Choral Union
—The evening before Thanksgiving day the members of the Junior department held an impromtu free-and-easy soiree in their study hall. A. Sievers played “ Harvest of Flowers” on the violin, with accompaniment on piano by C. Otto. M. Kauffman gave the overture to “Dame Blanche”; W. Jones sang the “ Mulligan Guards,” and Mas-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
203
ter D ivis a number of negro minstrel songs- Messrs. Otto and Orsinger played a number of pieces on the piano. J. Phelan danced a jig and sang the ‘ Skidmore Gmrds” and T. Fischel made a stump speech. Toe whole a<semblv, numbering about one hundred and twenty-five, j >med in singing “John Brown’s B >dy,” which they gave with tremendous effect. Tnis last concluded the “ blow-out.”
—The lecture delivered by Rev. T. E Walsh on the evening of the 30th was a i able effort; the subject was “The Age of Louis XIV’’ The lecturer began by calling attention to the coincidence that nations seem to reach at tne same time the highest degree of intellectual culture and the highest degree of material strength. The age of L>uis XIV was no exception. While it represented the apogee of the literary culture of France, it also represented Hie apogee of French influence and power. Louis was unquestionably one of the most remarkable men that ever occupied the throne of France; yet it would he difficult to find another whose character, abilities, and influence on society had given rise to a greater diversity of judgments and opinions. It h tdalways b -en the fate of those who had exerted a great and durable influence on human affairs to be painted in very diff .-rent colors according to the standpoint at which the historian placed hltn-elf. Those whose glance is fixed only on the bright and shining side of their hero’s character are often so dazzled that their sober judgment is in danger of being blinded; those who have eyes for stains and dark spots alone have not unfrequently reason to profess themselves horrified at the picture they discover. This m iy afford us a satisfactory reason why the memory of Louis XIV sometimes evokes such magnificent eulogies and sometimes such impassioned invectives. The only way to arrive at a fair judgment of a man or an age is to study carefully the principles professed and ac ions performed by that man, and the events of principal unporta ice which oc curred during that age. And applying that rule to Louis XIV we must acknowledge that if brilliant qualities, magnificent tastes, the faculty of exciting unbounded admiration and veneration, and fifty years of uninterrupted success can deserve for a monarch the title of Great, then no one can dispute Louis’s claim to it. The lecturer then took a rapid glance at the France of the 17th century, showing the political, social and intellectual supremacy which she then exercised over all Europe, as well as the no less wonderful ascendency exercised by Louis over France. The question might be asked, “ Can the influence of Louis be credited with having in any degree heightened the lustre of the age, or does he derive'all his own lustre from it? ” It might be set down as a general principle that few persons had ever for any length of time succeeded in fixing on themselves the attention of the world or captivating its admiration without having in themselves some of the material of which men are made. Deeds speak more eloquently than words, and the best vouchers on the abilities of Louis are not the flatteries of court poets and historiographers, but the mighty changes he effected in France and all over Europe. Before he assumed the reins of government the country - was torn by internal dissensions and conflicts. After his accession to power, from a state of comparative anarchy France appeared on the theatre of Europe great, powerful and united. Louis organized and disciplined her armies; he created her navy; he infused the spirit of unity into all branches of the administration; he first reduced the government of the interior to a regular and methodical system; he marshalled poets, scholars, scientists and philosophers as he had marshalled bis soldiers and sailors; the academies and institutes of which France is still so justly proud, though not of his creation, yet owed much of thi-ir influence and consideration to his patronage; in fi.ie, he rewarded distinction and success in literary labor not less than in warlike achievements. The lecturer then pro ceeded to examine the system of government with which the name of Louis was identified—that of absolutism, pure and simple—and here he was obliged to confess th it fie felt his admiration and enthusiasm rapidly diminishing. History proved that absolutism in g >vernment was always the fruitful source of abuses and disorders which violence and bloodshed are invariably found necessary to eradicate. In England it made the head of Charles I roll on the scaffold ; in France, after tour generations, it led to the murder of Louis XVI.' Tnere was nothing in the eatly history of
Francu to justify the claim io absolute power set forth by L >uis XIV. He Jroke with the traditions of the past; he trampled on liberties and parli intents, and concentrated power as ex’ensive as that of ifie Caesars in his own hands. His system, like al) others which are bised on personal qualities and n >t on principles, could be only for a lime. As the unbridled license of the Restoration was the result of the fmaticd aus erity of Puritanism, so the wild excesses of the French Revolution were ’he natural c»nse-quences of the absolutism <>f L»uis XIV. However it might be unjust to cens ire Louis too severely f< r n >t tore-seeing all the results which might spring from his sy3tem. His antipathy to pirliaments could eisilv be accounted for, and his government was at least sinctioned by the public opinion of the age. In the cis: of L >uis was verified the axiom: “The evil th it men do lives after them; the good is often interred with their bones.” That during his reign great and enduring benefits were conferred on France is a point too often forgotten; but few are inclined to forget the evils which sprung from his si stem of government and which culminated during the reign of his long and profligate successor.
’	RoU of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who durin r the past week have by th :ir ex-,mplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Breen, P. Coonev, E. Davenport. W Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzge aid G. Fishburn. T. Garrity, J. Gray. T. Garso, A. Hertzog, J. Hermann, J Kinney, R. Kirby, J. Kuebel, J. Larkin. H. Maguire, F Maas, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, T. McGrath, J. McEniry, Carl Otto. J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, L. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, T. H. Quinn, J. Quinn, P. Skahill, G. Saylor. F. Sehlink, F. Vandervennet, J. Vanderhoof, W. Williams, F. Keller, J. Silverthorn.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, A. Bergck, J. Butger, J. Bell, F. Carroll, C. J. Clarke, G. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, A. Congar, J. Carrer, W. J. D ivis, F. Ewing, J. English J. Fox, C. Faxon, A.. Gerlach, J L Healey, W. Hake, J. fngwerson, J. Johnson. R. C. Johnson. R. Keenan, A. Keenan, J. Krost, M. Kauffman, J. Knight, J. Lnmlev. E. Moran, J. Nelson, C. Orsinger, C. J. Pennington, F. Pleins. E. F. Poor, J. Reynolds J. Rothert, F. Rfieinboldr, W. J. Ryan, C. Roos, I. Rose, P. Schnurrer, K. Scanlan, H. Scott. G. Sugg, G. Streit, W. Taulby, C. Walsh, T. Wagner, L. Wolf, E. Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. Seeger, G. Hadden, J. Scanlan, W. Coolbaugh, P. Heron, G. Lowrey, R. Pleins, E. Carqueviile, W. McDevitt, H. Riopelle, H. Kitz, C. Kauffman. A. Rheinboldt, F. Gaffney, John Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, A. Sehnert, F. Carqneville.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
■ COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Seniors.—J. Ewing, C. Otto, N. Mooney, H. Cassidy.
Juniors.—W. Breen. J. McHugh.
Sophomore.—A. Hertzog, P. Skahill, W. Dechant, J. McEniry.
Freshman.—H. Maguire. L. Evers, J. P. Quinn, P. Tamble, F.
Maas, F. S. Hastings, W. J. Roelie, A. K. Schmidt, A. Burger, P. Sehnurrer.
Drawing—L. Proudhomme, A. Schmidt, J. Mosal, J.Knight, P. Skahill.
Painting—A. K. Schmidt.
Telegraphy.—J. Proudhomme, J. Herrmann, M.E. Smith, G. Streit, F. Ewing, H. Henkel, J. Murray.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H Riopelle, H. Kitz, U. Kauffman, A. Rheinbold, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, A. Sehnert, F. Carqneville, F. Gaffney.
- List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the Competitions, which are held monthly.—Direc corof Studies.]
FOR THE WEEK ENDING NOV. 23.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES.
German—M Kauffman, J. and R. Krost, J. E. Fishburne, D.
Ryan; French—G. Laurans, EL Scanlan.	- -
I
204
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

The Philharmonic Concert.
On Saturday, Nov, 25th, the Boston Philharmonic Club consisting of Messrs. Bernhard Listemann, violin; Friiz Listemann, violin; Adolph Hartdegen, violoncello; Eugene Weiner, flute; Alexander Freyganz, harp; Adolph Belz, French horn; assisted by Miss Dora Wiley, soprano; gave a concert at St. Mary’s Academy, as announced last. week. The opening overture to “Mignon,” though light in itself, was well calculated to show’ the skill of the Club in shading and blending, which certainty is the characteristic of their artistic performances, whatever may be the peculiar style of the compositions which they present to the audience. The overture is so well known that it is unnecessary to speak of the melodies which flowed alternately from the different instruments, and which were so harmoniously sustained by those not immediately engaged in the varied theme, through which swept the rich arpeggios of the harp, like an angd's wing just touching the floating mass of sound ami blessing its mission.
Mr. Weiner then stepped forth with his “Magic Flute.*' Those who remembered his exquisite playing a year ago were pleased to find the same perfect intonation and com-phte mastery of the brilliant chromatics and trills which ornamented the tripping melody, and which was entirely too short for the pleased listeners. And here, once for all, we must say to our friends who were not present at the rare treat given, that they must take for granted the technical skill of each member on his own and other instruments; we shall not describe their cipability in that department, for they possess the greater art of interpretation, which causes the audience to forget all else and yield to the spirit of the composer.
Mr. Hartdegen then came forward. We had heard the rich tones of his favorite violoncello in the overture, and Were prepared (we thought) for the solo; but no! Braga’s beautiful “Adieux aVarenne” stole on the ear, reminding us that “earth is not our home,” our pleasures but regrets, that time delays our separation from those who on earth loved all that was beautiful. The second number, a “ Mazurka Fantastique” by Deswert, was a wonder of skill, and delighted many who had no idea of Mr Hartdegen’s power over all manner of difficulties; like the flute solo, it was found too short.
Miss Dora Wiley sang, in a clear sympathetic soprano voice, ascena and aria from “ Der Freischiitz,” by Carl Maria Von Weber (we love to give his whole name). The song being well known to our young vocalists was appreciated accordingly, and their applause meant “ encore " Mr. Frey-gang, who is conceded to be the harpist of the world, then seated himself at the splendid Erard harp, upon which all eyes were eagerly turned. The first chords, struck full and short, proclaimed the master; the “Fantasie” was one by Alvar Parish. This difficult composition required extraordinary technical skill; we knew not which to admire most— the pedal playing, interlocking, tremolos, etouffees, harmonics, enharmonics, or the shades of natural touch; all were perfect, and we thank the gentleman, for it is unlikely we shall ever have another opportunity of hearing such harp music. This splendid piece of execution closed the first part.
Part second began with the latest modern composition by Saint Saens, call<-d the “ Dance of Death,” arranged by Mr. A Belz for the Philharmonics. The harp first struck octaves alone—which, we presume, gave the hour of midnight; then followed a measured staccato movement of the strings, wild and unearthly; involuntarily we turned to our neighbor. “ What is it ? ” Then arose a blast of wind, which growled and roared among the low chromatics of the basses, and rushed coldly, whistling through the strings —sinking into silence, only broken by .diminished intervals on the 1st violin, expressive of the moaning of the wind among the trees. The lines below, which formed the
subject-matter of the work, and which was handed to us after the concert, will give our readers a better idea of the composition than our feeble pen can afford:
“ Zig, zig, zig—erim Death, in cadence, Striking with his heel a tomb, Death at midnight plays a dance tune, Zig, zig, zig, upon his viol.
The winter wind blows, and the night is all dark, Moans are heard in the linden trees ;
Through the gloom the white skeletons pass. Running and .eaping in their shrouds.
Zig, zig, zig, each one is frisking—
The bones of the dancers are heard to crack.
But hist! of a sudden they quit the round, They push forward, they fly, the coek has crowed.”
The next number—a s>lo on the French horn, played by Sir. Belz—was one of Schubert’s songs. The delicious concordant sounds were like grateful sunbeams, melting away the misty shadows and dry, ghastly, soulless notes which like a horrible nightmare had chilled us a few mo-men's before. Mr. Belz stands unrivalled as a soloist on the hnrn ; of course all were pleased, both with his selection and rendition. Of the orchestral accompiniments to this as well as the other solos, it is useless to write; enough to sav they were perfection.
Mr. B. Listeinann’s violin solo—a WoWtzrno by Ernst, did not surprise, but entranced us, in the radiance of its glowing atmosphere; revealing another phase of the power of the artist sandibg before us clothed with the majesty of genius, the gift of his great Creator. The extrem • silence. of the li.-teners, who followed each beautiful emanation,-gave proof of their appt' ciation. His second morceau was an unexp-.-e'ed treat, for we had no programme. It was a caprice by Vieuxtemps a mirvel of virtuosity, introducing the air of “St. Patrick’s Day,” not in the usual racy style of performance, but rather slow and stately in its movement, more like a hymn of praise; and as the air.reappeared again and again in different keys-r-after capricious interludes—it seemed toshow how Erin’ssons have carried it to every clime, and preserved the loved strain with its memories of Faith through all adversities.
Miss Wiley then sang a touching ballad, which was encored—she very kindlv responded by singing the bright-little “Sky Lark’’ by Hatton, which suited well her sweet voice, and mada a pleasing diversion. The lily of the programme of fragrant flowers was reserved to the last; Gounod’s “ Are Muria ” was a graceful compliment, and accepted as such by the ladies of the institution. The song, so plaintive and prayerful, was given by the first violin in thrilling notes tar surpassing those of the human voice; the words were felt and echoed from heart depths, “Ace, Ave iLtrifi." The harp now appeared in its true sphere, pouring forth in continued arpeggios Sebastian Bach’s great prelude, as the main accompaniment the vio-lencello, and alto weaving between. Celestial sounds, carrying the soul far from earth. The flute then floating above these wavings of incense bore aloft to the “Lily of Israel” this homage of genius and talent, adding one more proof to her prophecy which has rung through nineteen centuries: “All generations shall call me blessed.”
In the name of the Faculty and the pupils of the Academy and Conservatory, we return our sincere thanks to the Philharmonics, and hope to hear again their most instructive and appreciated concerts.
—The Librarian of the St. Mary’s Library gratefully acknowledges the receipt of the following books, donated by Mrs. C Piquette, of Detroit: Guizot’s History of France; Half Hours with the Best Authors, Knight, 6 vols.; .Life of Abp. Hughes; Life of Prince Gallitzin; Life of Abraham Lincolin; Love of Country; Dick’s Encyclopedia of Practical Receipts; Outlines of Universil History; Oregon Missions, De Smet; Knapp's Chemical Technology, 2 vols.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.

SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A Walsh, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
205
‘M. Brady, J. Bennett. L. Beal], J. Nunning, M. Dailey, A. Byrne, K. Hutchinson, M O’Connor, B. Spencer. R. Casey, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, H. Russel, C. Morgan, J. Richards, H. Hawkins, E. Lange, M. and E. Thompson, E. O'Connor, L. Rodenberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson, K. Kelley, L. Weber, G. Kelley, C. Silverthorne, E. Bouton, M. Dalton, E. Davis, E. Forrey, A. Woodin, E. Pleins, J. Stough, D and A. Cavenor, L. Schwass, E. Dalton, M. Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Wilhelm, J. Burget, G. Conklin, D Locke, L. Davenport, M. Smalley, M. Usselmann, M. Halligan, M. Hungerford, N.O’Meara, L. Wier, C. Thaler. J. Loman, E. Wright, 100 par excellence. A. O’Connor, L. Johnson, M. Walsh, H. Julius, P. Gaynor, L. O’Neill, M. Spier, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, I. Cook, J. Burgie.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh,'A. O’Connor, M. Julius. M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, L. Beall, M. Dailey, A. Harris, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, C. Morgan. C. Boyce, J. Cronin, J. Richards, H. Hawkins, E. Lange, H. Dry-foos, M. and E Thompson, L. Rodenbnrger. S. Moran. M. O’Mahoney. M. Carroll, B. Wilson, L. Weber, G. Kelly. M. Schultheis, C. Silverthorne, E. Bouton, G. Wells, M. Dalton, E. Davis, A. Woodin. E. Pleins, J. Stough, D. and A. Cavenor. L. Kirchner, K. Kelly, L. Schwass, E. Dalton, M. Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Wilhelm, J. Burgert, G. Conklin. L. Davenport, M. Smalley, VI. Usselmann, M. Halligan, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, J. Burgie, N. O’Meara, L. Wier.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. McGrath, C. Corrill, E. Mulligan, L. Cox, M. Lambin. F. Fiiz, L. Ellis, M. Cox, C. Van Namee, E Wootten, N. Hackett. A. Williams, J. Butts, A. Getty, 100 par excellence. Misses N. McGrath. M. Mulligan, A. Morgan, L. Walsh, L. Hutchinson, D Gordon, A. Kirchner, L. Chilton. E. Wight, I. Mann, L. Forrey, A. Peak, M. Hayes, M. McFadden, J. Kingsbury, M. Robertson.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH CLASSES.
2o Sr. Class.—Mary Ewing.
3d Sr. Class.—Nellie McGrath.
1st Prep. Class.—Misses A. Ewing, A. Morgan, L. Hutchinson, D. Gordon.
2d Prep. Cla-s.—Misses A. McGrath, A. Kirchner, L. Chilton, E. Wight, I. Mann, E. Mulligan.
Junior Prep. Class. —Misses A. Peak, C. Carroll, M. Hayes, L. Cox, F. Fitz, M. Lambin.
2d Jr. Class.—Miss A. Williams.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses J. Nunning, M. Faxon, M. Julius, A. O’Connor, L. Weber, L. Pleins, H. Julius, L. Kirchner, A. Kirchner, H. Dryfoos. M. Schultheis. L. Kelley.
2d Class—Misses M. Usselman. A. D.,Gordon.
3d Class—Misses C. Boyce, Josephine Wilhelm, R. Casey.
LATIN.
1st Class—Misses M. Cravens, I. Davis.
2d Class—Misses L. Rodenberger, M. Carroll, J. Cooney, H. Russell, H. Hawkins.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses L. Beall, M. and E. Thompson, A. Harris, N. McGrath.
2d Class—Misses P. Gaynor, H. Russell, J. Burgert, M. McGrath. E. Wight, C. Silverthoru, J. Bennett, A. Walsh.
3d Class—Misses M. Brady, A. Byrnes, M. Daily, L. Rodenberger, M Walsh, M. O’Connor.
4th Class—Misses S. Moran, J. Cronin, J. Stough,' D. Locke, M. Ewing, A. Ewing, D. Hayes, E. Mulligan.
FANCY-WORK.
Misses M. Faxon, M. Usselman, L. Wier, S. Moran, E. Dalton, M. Dalton, E. Koch, H. Dryfoos, H. Hawkins, M. Brady, M. Halligan, M. Spier, J. Wilhelm, J. Nunning, A. Byrns, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, L. Kirchner, L. Schwass, E. Bouton, J. Richards, A. Walsh, E. and M. O’Connor, M. and E. Thompson, D. Locke, K. Burgie, C. Silverthorne, N. and A. McGrath, J. Kingsbury. L. Ellis, C. Corrill, A. Kirchner, A. and C. Morgan, M. McFadden, D. Gordon, M. Lambin, A. Getty, A. Williams, J. Butts, K. Cox, L. Van Namee, E. Wight, L. Hutchinson, A. Ewing, S. Hennebery, G. Conklin, M. O’Mahony.
—A. barrister having wearied the court by. a long and dull argument, the judge suggested the expediercy of his bringing it to a close. “I shall speak as long as I please,” he rejoined angrily. “ You have spoken longer than you please already,” retorted the judge.
—Dr. Hennikin being in private conversation with the late Earl of Chatham, his lordship asked him among other questions how he defined wit. “ My lord,” said the doctor, “ wit is like what a pension would be given by your lordship to your humble servant—a good thing well applied.”
MINERALS, SHELLS, BIBDS, Ac.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 3727 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”,
I have now over 38 tons, and nearl.v$35.000 worth of Minerals on hand. I have sold over §17,000 worth since the 17th day of January, when tie first box was put into my establishment. Yesterday, November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1200.
I have the best specimens ever seen of Amazon Stone, Ruby Silver, Samarskite, Amethyst, Brookite, Columbate of Yttria, Zonochlorite, Chilenite, Chalcedony, Rutile in Quartz, Hydrotitanite, Itacolumite, Nigrin, Green Wavellite colored by Vanadium, Peganite, Smoky Quartz. Rock Crystal, Perofskite, Schorlomite, Aegerite, Feldspar, (pink, red, gray, brown and green,) Embolite, Melanite, Ozarkite, and Chlorastrolite.
Mj’ Mineralogical Catalogue and table of species, by which most minerals may be identified, illustrated by over $300 worth of engravings, is now ready for distribution. It is au excellent check list containing in the price-list every species and ail the more common varieties arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species after it will be found the species name, composition, streak or lu=tre. cleavage or fracture, hardne-s. sp. gr. fusibility and erystalization. Free to all customers ; to others on receipt of 10 cents for postage, &c. I desire especially to call attention to my remarkably fine specimens of Amazon Stone, of which I have or have had nine-tenths of all the specimens ever found. I have made six trips to the locality, and think 1 may safely sav that no more will be found. Good crystals from 15 cents to $100 each.
I have just purchased the best of the Ruby Silvers exhibited at the Centennial by the Chilian government. These are the only specimens weighing less than three lbs. that ever brought anything like $1,000 each.
I have the mo-t beautiful green Wavellite andPagenite ever known, colored by vanadic acid.
lam selling Amethvstat far lower prices than it was ever sold at before. Over $2,500 worth sold since the 10th of July.
COLLECTIONS OF MEWERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional men. These collections illustrate all ihe principal species and all grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy ; Every Crystalline System; all the r-rincipal Ores and every known Element. The collections are labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral.
Ail collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
100 Crystals, and Fragments for Study,............$	-1.00
100 Specimens,'Students’ Size, Larger, ...... 5 00
100 Specimens, Larger, Amateurs’ Size, 2X+1J^ inches, 10.00 Collections of Gems, Ores, Earthy Minerals, Minerals used in any Art or in Agriculture, on hand or put up to order.
We sell Minerals by weight, for the Chemist and blowpipe use, at very low prices, as Samarskite 25c. per lb., Allanite 25c. per lb., Brookite Pure Crystal 25c. per lb.. Rutile pure 25c. per lb., Wavellit e 25c. per lb.. Blend 10c. per pound.
I have just bought the famous Chilton Collection of Shells and Minerals, which has been on exhibition at Tiffany’s for the past two years. The original price asked was $3,000. It contained a number of unequalled things, among them a Rutile in Quartz, for which Mr. Chilton was offered $350 gold. A twin crystal of clear calcite containing % pint of water, weighing over 10 lbs. The only perfect spiuy-murex in the country.
The large increase of my business ’has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books, Fossils, Mound-Builuers, Relics, and all objects of Natural History except Minerals. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, a gentleman who was employed by the Smithsonian Institution in South America for 3 years. I have a very large stock of Western and Southern birds on hand. Also, Heads and Antlers for Museums, Dining-Rooms, Halls and Libraries.
My collection of plants is very fine, comprising many that are rare, from the far North and West I have just made arrangements to secure the Northern and Middle States (including Va.) collections of A. H. Curtis, who will no longer deal in them;
I have several hundred volumes of rare old works on Mineralogy, Chemistry and the Natural Sciences, among them many of the most interesting of the State and Government Reports.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy,
FeSmo Am. Ass'll Adv. of Science.
3725 and 3727 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.
206
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
HOLIDAY, WEDPBG, OR BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
Automatic Crystal Fountain.
Self-Acting, Requiring no Pressure of Water.
PATRICK STUCKEY, PROPRIETOR OP THE NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE I
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the nrgsnl requestor many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NbW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
A-ttaclied to Lite National Hotel, and d-
jacent to 1 lie Ivalee Shore and Michigan Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet 'een Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern De^ot, 1 shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the atrons of Notre Dame and St. Mm/b, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
r. S HICKEY.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21, 1875.
	•Mail.	•Day Express	-Kal Accom	tAtlantic Express.	r Nigh Express
Lv. Chicago.... “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. . “ Jackson.... Ar. Detroit ..	5 00 a.m 7 32 *• 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 ”	9 00 a.m 11 00 " 12 09 p.m 3 15 ’• • 25 *•	4 00 p.m 6 30 8 20 *• Express 10 15 “	5 15 p m 7 40 “ 8 5i “ 12 40 a m 3 30 “	9 00 p m 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 ‘‘ R (10 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jsckson.... “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago	7 0u a.ti 0 40 •’ 3 45 p.m 5 10 “ 7 30	io 05 a tn 12 32 p.u< 4 23 •* 5 35 “ 1 8 00	4 on p in 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 5ii “ 10 20 *•	5 40 p u 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 ” 6 30 *•	9 50 p m 12 42 a.u 4 3u *• 5 50 “ 8 00 “
Niles and South Bend Uivlsion.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. “ Notre Dame—S 22 “
Ar. Niles— 9 00 “
7 15 p m. §9 00 a.m.
7 23	9 07 “
8 00 “	9 40 «
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “ 7 40 “
Patented Feb. 7, 1871.
Price Complete. 815.
i
I
-	-	- GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00 a m.
“ Notre Dawe—7 07 “	4	56	“	8 32	“
Ar. South Bend- 7 15 “	5	05	“	8 10	•*
§5 00 p.m 5 32
5 40 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. gSuncay only.
G. L. Elliott.	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l bup’t, Chicago
More elaborate styles furnished; also, Fountains for Counter nse, with<mly S’Ker-phted basin and jet m sight.
^^“Address for Circular,
J. W. TUFTS, 33 to 39 Bowker St., . . Boston, NTass.
Hbnrt C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
JANSEN, McCLURG <&. co.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STBEET,
CECTCLAQ-O, ILLINOIS.
M. Livingston & Co.,
JLSZE THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
They Have the Best Cutter In the City, nd make suit, in the latest styles at the lowest prices. The’r stock of Clothing, Clothe, Casslmeres, Vestings. and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is he largest »nd most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisaction guaranteed on all goods.
REMEMBEB THE PLACE.
94 MICHIGAN St, SOUTH BEND, IND.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
207

MONALD,
FHOTOG-RAFHER,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
EDWARD BUYSSE
DEALER IM
Watches, Clocks,
JE WELR YL
All Kinds* of Engraving Done,
CALIFORNIA
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thou-and miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SA.TST EE^AKOISCO,
Sacramento Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lin coin, Council Bluffs. Yankton. Sioux City, Dubuque, Winoi a, St Paul, Duluth, Marquette. <-«reen Bay. Oshkosh. Madison, Milwankec and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best, travelling accommodations, you will buy your'ickets by this route, and will take no other
This popular r-u e is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smPo’h. well-b lasted aud perfect track of ste 1 rail*. Westing house-a.r brakes. Miller’s safety platform and coupler*. the celebrated o’ullman Ealace sleeping’ ’are. the perfect telegraph svsten of moving trains, the regularity with which they run. the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway traveling.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road
This is the only line, running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for nil points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hugbitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Geu’l Passenger Agent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KA SAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Dep , Wesi side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville. Il. and Louisiana. M<»........2	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Loirs Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...............................7	40	am	9	00	pm
Pekin and Peoria Fast Express.............4	00	pm	10	00	am
Peoria Day Express........................7	50	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokn'k and Burlington Ex.........7 40 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....? 50 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 2 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation......................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public t“ be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Pern accommodation ............... 5	00 p m.	9 35 a m.
Night Express. ..................10 00 n.m.	6 50 a.m.
A. M SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent,
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne 8g Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOVEMBEB, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trams with Through Cars 1 NEW YORK.	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex Snnd’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night Ex. hx Sa&Su
Lv CHICAGO		9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar ft. wayne		2 10 p.m.	11 25 “	6 15 xm.
u Rochester.....		1 04 a-m.	11 12 Am.	5 54 p.m.
u Pittsburgh.........		2 10 “	12 15 “	7 05
f.v Pittsburgh.................	2 55 “	1 10 p m.	8 10 “
Prpsson. -						
“ Harrisburg		11 30 a.m.	H 05 “	3 45 a.m.
u Baltimore...........		6 25 p.m.		7 35 “
u Washington			9 07 “		9 02 “
u Philadelphia..............	3 30 “	3 10 a.m.	7 35 “
“ New York	..	6 45 “	6 50 “	10 25 “
u New Haven		11 52 “	10 40 “	3 26 p.m
11 ‘Hartford 		.............	1 27 a.m.	12 11 p.m.	
u Sprin*HieTd	.........	• 2 20 “	12 57 p.m.	
u Providence...............	5 10 “	3 48 “	7 4“
“ Boston		6 15 “	4 50 “	9 05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That ru- s 'ne celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from <’hicigo to Baltimore, Washington City. Philadelphia and New York without change, I hrough tickets for sale at ail principal ticket offices at
rhe lowest current rates,
F. E. MYEES, G- P. & T. A.
L. S. & M. S. Railway
On and after Sunday, Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a m., Chicago and St Louis Express, over Main Line, arrive.-ar Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 kO p m; Buffalo 8 10..	.. ...
1 O 07 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55 p m; (leveland 9 45.
~1 1 59 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10; Cleveland 9 45; Buffalo 4 00 am.
9 1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland. 7 '5: Buffalo, 1 10 pm.
4, S3 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 4,5 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m, Chicago
6 3o a in.	„ .	• „
5 3R am. Pacific E> press Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 820pm.
4, 53 o m. Special Chicago Express.' Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicano, 8 20
8 OOam. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago 11 30 a.m.
8 30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West uiv, Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
208
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
SPEER at MITCHELE IN. S Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at haw, No. 225 Brady Si., Davenport, Iowa.
T TJClCrS Gr. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor L at Law, and Beal Estate Agent, Room No 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
THOMAS rs. CLIFFORD, [of *63] Attorney at
Law, ^otaiy Public and omuistiou.r for all the States. 206 Broadway (cor Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.	■
FANNING <fc HOGAN [D. J. Bogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland clock, N. E. lor Clara and Randolph sts , Chicago II
JOU tV F. McHTJGrEI [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia at, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas J., Notary Public, and Win W., both of ’Ml, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made Office Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVIELE T. CHAMBERLAIN [of ’61], At orney a Law, N fary i ubl.c and Co.um.Bi.ioner of Detds.
Office. 9-5 Miin St., hlkhart, Ltd.
'A a cBRIDE & MimLiA-TtD (Jas. E McRriie, ff JVL ’66) At 'ye at Law, Solicitors .n ■ ha .eery, and Proctors in Admits, ty Practice in < 11 th coats of Aich and ot tae U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapid*, Mich.
a
<r
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer rf c:ty and . cou->’y of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main "H, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention gi/en to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J STACE [of *64], County Surveyor for at. Joseph County. Suutu Bend, Ind.	-
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Is in Press, and Will be Published December 15,1876.
The Scholastic Almanac, will contain, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It will be printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.	’
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.
Price 25 cts, postpaid.
The Bond Bunse,
A. McKay. Prop., nsriLES, miotucs-atn-. Free Hack to and. from all Trains for Guests of the House
Orders should be sent to
Notre Dame, Indiana,

(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BT THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated oo the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All he branches of a solid aud complete eoucation are taught here. M-isic, both vocal and instrumental. and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catho-lir pupils. Pnpils of all denominati.'ns are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.	.	'
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to th- educational requirem nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every portion ol the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths areattached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beau ifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which Is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.	'
For further particulars concerning this Institution, ihe public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
.	. St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
IF1. ZhZCElTIEI?/, Agent FOB
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
JAMES BONNEY
THE EHOTOGBAPHEB
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOTTTT3I BEJSTJD, IJSTTDIA-JSTA-
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near ’he Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to