
I) c ^’d) a I as tic ^cflt.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY A.T NOTRE TJAJJkEE.
|mW in th |hhwMsi of th
“ LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II. • UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., MAY 29, 1869. No. 38.
The Irish Language.
AN ESSAY, BY F. S.
[CONCLUDED.]
“ The language of old Erin, of her history and name—
Of her monarchs and her heroes, of her glory and her fame— • The sacred shrine where rested, through her sunshine and her gloom,
The spirit of her martyrs, as their bodies in the tomb!
The time-wrought shell where murmured, through centuries of wrong,
The secret voice of freedom in annal and in song.
********
Ah, the pleasant Tongue, whose accents were music to the ear I Ah, the magic Tongue, that round us wove its spell so soft and dear!
Ah, the glorious Tongue, whose murmur could each Celtic heart enthral!
Ah, the rushing Tongue, that sounded like the rushing torrent’s fall!
The Tongue that in the senate was the lightning flashing bright, Whose echo in the battle was the thunder in its might;
' The Tongue that once in chieftain’s ball swelled loud the minstrel’s lay] As chieftain, serf, or minstrel old, is silent there to-day.
********
Oh, be Irish, Irishmen, and rally for the dear old Tongue Which, as ivy to a ruin, to the dear old land has clung;
Oh, snatch this relic from the wreck, the only and the last, To show what Erin ought to be, by pointing to the Past 1”
—Rev. M. Mullin (“ Clonfert”).
Having now given a brief review of the antiquity of the Irish language, and dwelt upon a few of its peculiarities—though indeed at best but a meagre outline sketch, for which we are mainly indebted to Rev. Ulick Burke’s “ College Irish Grammar,” heretofore noticed, we cannot refrain from giving in extenso some few valuable and interesting notes from the same work, on a subject of general interest. They not only corroborate the truth of the great antiquity of the Irish language, but also its adaptability as a vehicle to the highest grade of thought and refinement of expression.
We quote at length from the author’s remarks
with regard to “ Versification as practiced by the Irish bards:”
“Every scholar who has read Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and any of the European languages, knows that the phonetic framework in which the poetry of a people is usually fashioned, differs with each of the great national families, much in the same way that their languages and their genius differ. The Greeks, for instance, and the Latins of old, framed the language of poetry in metre consisting essentially in the recurrence of similar quantities; the Indians make it consist in measure alone, or in a specific number of syllables; the Hebrews thought that poetry without parallelism, or a recurrence of similar ideas in certain parts of the verse, would be like the body without the- soul; the Germans, Swedes, and the Norse generally thought that poetry could not be expressed without alliteration—a quality which, to their mind, constituted the essential characteristic of versification; and modems—as well Irish, as English, French, and Italian—embody poetry in metre founded on accent, rendered symphonious by the use of assonance and alliteration. Amidst these varieties, no mention has here been made of the metrical system of the ancient Irish bards. Was their versification founded on quantity or on accent—on measure alone, on assonance, alliteration, or parallelism ? It was founded on none of these exclusively: not on quantity, as practiced by the Greeks and Latins, which any one skilled in Latin prosody may readily learn by analyzing an Irish quatrain; nor on accent only, for Zeuss puts the question and answers it: ‘Queritur, an syllabarum majoriset minoris accentus in versuum membris alternantium certa fuerit regula ? Con-jici possunt..... pro diversa locatione accentfis duo diversa schemata. Attamen nec in hoc membro nec in aliis plurium vel pauciorum syllabarum certus ususstatuendus videtur. ’—Grammatica GeUica, pp. 914, 915. Of course, it is true that accent plays a part in all kinds of versification.
298
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
' Nor was the ancient Irish metre one merely of measure, of assonance, or parallelism. It embraced all these qualities, some one of which was considered by other people specially essential in constituting verse. It is no wonder then that it has been pronounced by O’ Molloy ‘ the most difficult kind of composition under the canopy of heaven.’
“In this kind of versification, the same word which closes one line commences the next.
“ Ailin iath n-Ereann, Er mac muir mothach, Mothach sliabh sreathach, Sreathach coill ciotach.”
“ [Lines by Amergin the poet-warrior, and brother of Milesius, who flourished, according to O’Flaherty’s ‘ Chronology, ’ the year 1015 before the Christian era, A. M. 2934 (see vol. i. Annals of the Four Masters ; Transactions of the Hiberno- Celtic Society, vol. i., pp. 13, 14.]
“From examples now furnished—drawn as as they are from the best authenticated sources— it is very evident—first, that in the second, third, sixth, and subsequent centuries, the Irish bards and filidh composed verses in which (1) assonance, (2) alliteration, (3) rhyme, parallelism, were essential qualities; that versification without some of these essential requisites was never tolerated by the bards. And bearing in mind that the bardic laws and regulations were very binding, and that all the Keltic races have tenaciously adhered to the traditions and teaching of their progenitors, as Zeiiss remarks—‘Morum priscorum semper. tenacissimifuerintCeltici populi’ (p. 915, Gram-matica Celtica'), we must infer, secondly, that the Irish bards and filidh who flourished several centuries before the Christian era, practiced, as our historic annals testify, the same kind of versification which was in use in the early Christian ages. And the third conclusion to be drawn is, that which Zeiiss attests—the druids and bards of Wales and Gaul practiced the same kind of versification in which the bards and filidh of Eire composed their hymns and elegies.
“ ‘‘Apud Hibernos vetustos et Cambros con-structio poeticae orationis, in genere est eadern Facile inde statui poterit, cum morum prison rnm semper tenacissimi fuerint Celtici populi, etiam apud veteres Druidas et Bardos ’Gallicos carmi-num constructienem nonfuisse diversam?
“Another inference is this, that the Keltic inhabitants of Gaul, Cambria and Eire knew quite euough about rhyme and its use—that the Keltic bards, at least of Gaul, put that knowl
edge into practice two thousand years, perhaps, before the Saracens came to enlighten Europe.”
Speaking of Latin hymnology in connection with the ancient Irish language, the Rev. author says: *
"Latin hymns.—In the divine offices of the Church, the hymns sung throughout the year, and found in the Roman Breviary, are about one hundred and twenty. In the pontificate of the most holy Father Urban VIH (A. D. 1629), the hymns known at the time were collected and reedited in an improved form. That collection consisted of ninety-six. Since then, more than twenty others have been added to the number, composed in honor either of saints enrolled in later years on the calendar, or in commemoration of some great event—like the victory over the Turks at Lepanto, and the unexpected and sudden triumphal return of Pope Pius VII from his imprisonment in Savona, to the capital of the Christian world.
“ Their metrical character.—Of these hymns some are composed in the metre of the poetic prototypes according to which Horace and Terence wrote—iambic trimeter, iambic tetrameter, sapphic, with a closing adonic to complete the strophe.
“ Others have been composed irrespective of the laws of Latin versification. Their authors attended, as St. Bernard remarks, more to the sense of the words than to their classical completeness. As a matter of fact, however, the whole of this latter class, and a great many of the former, are written in verses of the same number of syllables, and adorned with the same phonetic qualities in which the bards of Keltic Gaul, of Cambria, and Eire composed.
“ Composed in the manner and measure usual with the Keltic bards:—How account for this? Did it happen by accident? No; for nothing bearing the impress of knowledge and wisdom can happen by accident. The hymnologists must then have learned of the Keltic bards, or the Keltic bards learned of them. The latter part of this proposition cannot be admitted—chronology and facts are against it. Again Zeiiss says this form of versifying was unknown and entirely foreign to poets of classic antiquity: ‘Formam incognitam poetis classics vetustatis et yeregri-num certe'—Grammatica Celtica, p. 918.
“ Latin hymnologists.—The hymns sung in the Church prior to the period in which Urban VIII flourished, were composed either by Irishmen,
* Notes pp. 251, 2, and following.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	299
such as Sedulius, Columbanus, Columba, Secun-dinus; or by men of Keltic origin, as St. Ambrose ; or those who, like St. Augustine, were of the same metrical school with St. Ambrose; or, lastly those who flourished between the fourth century and the fourteenth, and followed, in the composition of hymns, the metre and the melody of the great master of hymnology, St. Ambrose.
“ The hymns written by Irishmen.—With regard to the first, they, like St. Flach, Bishop of Sletty, wrote in Irish dan direach, and in that species of it called seadna, which contained eight syllables, and required necessarily the employment of those requisites previously spoken of. For men who understood Latin so well, that in all the ancient manuscripts we find they wrote alternately in Latin and Irish, the transition from Irish to Latin versification was quite natural and easy. When, therefore, one finds such hymns as those which Sedulius cqmposed,
‘“A soils ortu carmine,’
And
“ ‘ Hostis Herodes impie,’ written like the Irish odes of the time, the proof is complete that that manner of composing hymns was borrowed from the Irish bards.
The hymns written by St. Ambrose.—But what of St. Ambrose, who lived in the fourth century? How did it happen that he wrote poetry like the Keltic bards ? Because he was a native of Gaul (born A. D. 333, died 397), and before his conversion to Christianity he understood the manner of versifying which the bards of Keltic Gaul practiced. ‘Non nimium audere mihi videbor si affirmavero jam prima religionis Christianas aetate in Gallia, earn Gallicam carminum formam in carmina Christiana translatam esse.’ If I should affirm now, that in the first age of the Christian religion in Gaul, that Gaulish form of composing odes was transferred to the composition of Christian hymns, it would not appear to me, says Zeiiss, that I stated too much. He— and no living writer of this century knew better, or could know better—is of opinion, that the form of ode-writing in Gaul was handed over to the Christian poets of the first age of the Church. Now, of these St. Ambrose was the first and the greatest. He was the first, for although hymns were sung before his time, as we know from the evangelists’ account of the night before the Passion, and regarded as the first hymnologist in the Church, because he composed seventy-seven hymns of those now sanctioned by the Roman ritual, and because, as his commentator Paulinus test
ifies, ‘ Hymns began first in St. Ambrose’s time to be sung in the church of Milan, a devotion which continues at the present day to be practiced, and which has spread throughout all the provinces of the West.’ ‘Cultus divini publici hymnis, celebrandi primus auctor fuit.’—Zeuss. ‘Ambrosius plures hymnos et ipse conscripsit, adeo commendatos Ecclesiis, ut plerseque illos adoptare non dubitaverunt.’—Thesaurus Sacro-rum Rituum, by Rev. D. Bar Gavanto, with a commentary by P. D. Merati, tom. it, p. 105— Venetiis, 1744. St. Benedict called the hymns of the Church by the name Ambrosiani, as nearly all the hymns known in his time were written by the sainted Bishop of Milan.
“ St. Augustine and others of his time—St. Paulinus, for example,—learned in the school of the great St. Ambrose.
“ All the hymns of that time, whether written by St. Ambrose or by the Irish missionaries, were looked upon by every hymnologist in after times as the prototypes according to which new hymns should be written.
“ Note.—It is plainly seen, then, that all the hymns which are sung in the divine office of the Church, are moulded in the form ofthe Irish poetry of the earliest ages. How very few of the young ecclesiastics think of this, when reciting the hymns sung daily at prime, terce, sext, none, complin, and those at matins, lauds, and vespers.”
That those of Irish descent then, should by every means in their power preserve, and endeavor to cultivate, the mother-tongue of such glorious ancestry should not at all be wondered at; the only surprise should be at the neglect of their doing so, as all who are any way conversant with Irish history and archaeology must be aware of the many reasons they have to be proud of it. It is proved on excellent authority to have occupied such a high and honorable position as to be a standard, and overflowing with the riches of literature, both in prose and poetry.
The Irish may well feel a glow of pleasure in their ancestry and ancestral tongue, whose thrilling tones must have nerved the arms that drove even the imperious Caesar and his conquering hosts from their beautiful island shores, after he had even conquered and subjugated Britain, that Britain that to-day makes such vaunting claims of superiority; the language in which was chronicled and sung the exploits of their statesmen, scholars, and warriors; in which were sung the praises of Conn of the Hundred Battles,
I
300	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
and Niall of the Nine Hostages who carried his victorious arms into the continent of Europe; whose tones nerved on Shane the Proud, the amiable Owen, and later, the high-spirited Hugh O’Niall, who with Roderick O’Donnell gained such signal successes against the then long established English forces in Ireland as to make even Elizabeth tremble. Yes, it nerved each and all in their brave and manly contest with Danish iwoaders and Saxon usurpers, the latter of whom gained a foothold only by treachery, and an ascendancy only after a gradual encroachment of over 400 years’ duration.
Still later, was it not one of the chief accessories' that gave the illustrious O’Connell such sway over the hearts and sympathies of his countrymen,—then discouraged, broken-spirited and divided in views as they were, the effects of the 400 years of harassing tyranny from their false and treacherous friends, since the days of Henry and Cromwell.
That it was at once a polite and learned language is incontestible from even the few proofs quoted, as well as the fact that Ireland—a place perhaps not as large in area as the State of Indiana—boasted no fewer than 318 houses of learning at the time of the suppression of the monasteries. And what were monasteries in the olden time, as now, but nurseries of science and learning, albeit mountebanks and Reformers banned and suppressed them then, and stigmatized them ever since, even to our own times?
As history, common sense, and incontrovertible facts are daily putting things in a clearer light, may we not hope that the cherished language of the island of saints, warriors and statesmen may obtain a new impetus, and give another link in the chain connecting the past with the present ?
•It is still worth preserving and cultivating as an accomplishment, and a key to much classic lore. The bare fact of Dr. O’Donovan being elected a member of the Royal Archaeological Societies of Berlin and Vienna, in reward for the light thrown by him on Gaelic antiquities, goes far to confirm this; and the talent and eru-
■ dition lately thrown into the scale by the Most Rev. Dr. McHale and his able assistants cannot fail to produce happy results.
■ —-----------
Rev. Dom. Jatjssion, of the Benedictine Order of Solesmes, France, is now at Notre Dame, and will stay a few weeks with a view to collect all the documents relating to the life of Right. Rev. Bishop BrutS, his uncle, formerly Bishop of Vincennes.
“ Music.”
By Coz.
As earth is formed to drink the drops Which, falling, fertilize her crops,— Sad angels’ tears, the poets say, That wash her sinful stains away— So man is gifted with a pair	'
Of ears, that mnsic, entering there, May fructify, increase and bear _ A thousand virtues—hence the sage Who wrote for this, and every age, Observed: “ That man is ripe for sin Who lives without, nor hath within His body, soul for music sweet;
Salute him not upon the street I” The roaring of the mighty sea, Or thunder, heaven’s artillery, The moaning of the wintry breeze, The sigh of zephyr ’mid the trees, The echo of a mother’s words, The caroling of painted birds, The songs of childhood, melody Of rippling waters, have for me A sweet attraction;—others, some Prefer reverberating drum, Shrill-piercing fife, or sullen sound Of booming cannon—many pound With forceful fist, the brazen gong, Or peal the clanging bells as strong, Or crash barbaric cymbals, whose Metallic music shames the muse; Or stamp—the elbow crook—and fiddle Romantic Yankee-doodle-diddle;
Their windy soul pour in the horn, Or kiss the mouth of flute forlorn : While some, than reedy pipes of Pan ’ More love a rattling oyster-can.
A vixen’s tongue, a squealing pig, A rasping file, an Irish jig, The squawk of babies, charm a few— I leave the calling names to you !
The Viceroy of China.
BY G. F. B. COLLINS, ESQ.	‘
Canton, China, May, ’67.—Early this morning orders were given for “ all hands” to dress in white, as we were to receive the Grand Viceroy of the Celestial C) Empire as a visitor. His coming was announced by three guns from the mouth of the bay, distant four miles. At eleven o’clock, the order was given: “Standby to lay aloft to man the yards.” The fore-top and lower yards were manned, and a more imposing sight cannot Well be conceived—the men on the yards (in white, with blue caps,) being nearly the same size, and just far enough apart to place their hands on each other’s shoulders. To the nautical eye it was grand. The Viceroy soon came alongside, when we saluted him with there broadside guns and ran up the Chinese flag with
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
301
\
*
the flying dragon at the fore. The colors were allowed to fly during the whole time he was aboard. The Chinese people think that the least guns used in a salute, the' more honor is expressed thereby; as he came aboard all the officers received him in white uniform, and were facing the starboard gangway to the quarter deck. With altogether too humiliating a bow he returned our salutation, and then retired to inspect the cabin. It amused him greatly to look up at the topmast truck and behold the colors of his nation flying at the fore of an American man-of-war. This Chinese flag is oblong in shape, having the whole field yellow, and a black dragon on the wing in the centre. The edges of the flag are bordered by a blue scollop trimming. It is pretty to the eye, but the figure in the middle of it savors too much of idolatry; and on reflection, our conclusion is that it is disgusting and nauseous in the nostrils of Christianity.
His Celestial (?) highness remained but a short time in the cabin, and on reaching the deck again the crew of the after pivot-gun were called to quarters and went through the shifting and working of the gun. This greatly pleased him. The dress of the Viceroy and his suite was strangely ridiculous, albeit royalty attended the toilet. The “ head and front” of the Quangtung province had on a long flowing white underdress, and his outside garment was of black silk. A square piece of embroidery, representing a swan, was worked both on the back and front of the outside coat, or it might more properly be called a wrapper. On his head he wore a round straw turban, profusely embellished by sundry knots of raw red silk, and on the top a huge feather adorned his head. Around his neck were a string of alternate red and black beads.
The Viceroy seems to be of many years, and stoops and bends in his walk like an aged person. His spectacles were immense, and fully as large as the crystal of a watch. They reminded me of a minstrel play, where the darkey schoolteacher had “ specs” as large as a blacking-box. The difference only was, that one was honest royalty while the other was comic mockery. As the several apartments of our vessel were shown him, an interpreter expressed the Viceroy’s requests and astonishment, and among the former he desired the interpreter to tell the officers that he was extremely sorry he could not speak directly to them, and return his heartfelt thanks for the reception we had given him. One very pretty remark was: “ It comes not so fresh through
an interpreter as it would were it immediately communicated by myself.” I apprehend, could he be understood in his own language, he is a fine scholar.
He left with the same salute as he received on his coming aboard.
-------
Our Shops.—We think it a duty and confess it a pleasure to recommend to the students of the University the work done at the tailor and shoe shops of the apprentices. Without wishing to 'depreciate the merit of the workmen of South Bend, we believe that splendid suits, even in the latest styles, can be made by Bro. Casimir; as to boots and shoes, the prizes obtained at our County Fair by Bro. Eugene, and the actual use of the above articles, will warrant them as superior work. We never thought of recommending especially our own shops; but the fact that the patronage from the students is the principal means of supporting this charitable institution, known as the Apprentices, and that some persons have taken a particular care in frustrating this end, make it incumbent on us to state plainly the fact that the Apprentices will be more thankful to them for a call than any shopkeeper in town.
College Bulletin.
Arrival of Students at Notre Dame.
May 19 th.
L. J. Brady,	Aurora, Ill.
Tables of Honor.
Senior Department.
May 14th.—J. Eisenman, H. P. Morancy, H. B. Keeler, J. Harrison, J. Fleming, L. B. Logan, J. C. Lavelle, T. Garrity, E. B. Gambee.
May 21st.—John Vocke, J. M. Gearin, Austin Gabel, C. Stuart, James O’Reilly, W. Waldo, J. Zahm, T. Heery, J. Wilson, John Duffy.
Junior Department.
May 14th.—E. Bahm, J. Broderick, F. Dwyer, A. Hemsteger, S. Dum, J. L. Miller, B. F. Roberts, V. Hackmann, J. D. Klein, D. Eagan, J. Nash.
May 21st.—William B. Clarke, Edward O’Bryan, S. Chamberlain, William Fletcher, F. Bulger, W. Wilstach, James McGuire, George McCartney, C. Walters, Hugo Hug, J. Page. -
Minim Department.
May 21st.—M. Smyth, G. Lyons, H. Jones, G. Berry, C. Campau, I. Bennett, E. De Groot.
t
302
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
CE1EBBATION
Gala day at Notre Dame.
—OF THE—
A telegram was received on last Friday that V. Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of Holy Cross, and founder of the University of Notre Dame, had landed in New York, direct from Italy and France, and was on his way home.
Though the University is as yet magnetically insulated from the other metropolis, still the news flew with almost electric speed, lighting up, like a sunbeam, every countenance: bright with joy were the faces of all—especially those of the Seniors, more especially those of the Juniors, and * most especially in a marked degree those of the wee little Minims, before whose mind’s eye flitted bright visions of play-days, premiums, presents, and what not—perhaps a bran-new velocipede, direct from Paris—not a great big raw-boned steed, like the one the Seniors got, but a dear little pony, for their especial accommodation!
Great was the eagerness of many to see again him whom they knew and loved so well, nor less eager the desire of the “ new-comers ” to behold one of whom they had heard so much, and so often.
“O dear, dear! so unexpectedly!” exclaimed Prof.----; “ what shall we do, boys ?”
“What! why,let’sgetupanaddressofwelcome,” said the Seniors;—“ Andwdllplay aplay for him,” said the Juniors; “ Do so,” cried the Minims; “ we little boys could do whatever you big ones can, but for Father General to see us will be enough, sure!” It was unanimously resolved, in a council of war, that all—big, little, old and young—should march forth in battle array, to meet him; that stratagem would take his heart by storm, or there was no further trust to be placed forever in tic-tacs!
No sooner said than done; for
“ Ubi voluntas via”—viz.: “Where there’s a will, a way there is!” „
especially if there also be a sufficiency of native talent, and a superabundance of hearty good-will, as in the present case: so, while the warriors prepared for the field, the more peaceably inclined, knowing, with Pope, that
“ Order is heaven’s first law,”
planned the exercises for the grand “ Ovation” of the evening, in Washington Hall, a neatly printed copy of which the G. S. shortly afterwards kindly handed us, , and which we as cheerfully present .to you. Here it is, in extenso;
RETURN OF V. REV. E. SOItUV, Superior General fo the Order of Holy Cross, and Founder of Notre Dame University,	'
May 22, 1869.
PART FIRST.
Entrance March -------- N. D. U. Cornet Band Music - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Orchestra Address from the College Faculty - - - - Prof. L. G. Tong Music - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Orchestra Song—(Composed expressly for the occasion)—V. .Hackmann Address from the Senior Department ----- D. A. Clark Music - -- -- - ------- N. D. U. Cornet Band Address from the Junior Department ----- Mark Foote Song—(Duet) - -- -- -- -V. Hackmann and R. Staley Address from the Minim Department - - - Edward De Groot Music - -- -- -- -- -- -- N. D. U. Cornet Band
PART SECOND.
THE PRODIGAL LAW STUDENT.
A Drama in Four Acts, Written for and Performed by the Saint Cecilia Philomathean Association.
Prologue - -- -- -- - -- -- - J. W. Coppinger Music - -- -- -- -- -- -- - ... Orchestra
oast of characters:
FREDERICK—Daw Student....................R. STALEY
Mr. Martin—His Father.....................D. J. Wile
Alfred—His Friend..........................F.	Dwyer
Angelo—His Brother.......................Mark Foote
Tightfist—A Wall Street Broker........... C.	Burdell
Mr. Richards—Friend of Mr. Martin........P.	O’ConneU
Professor Allgood—Teacher of Angelo.J. W. Coppinger General Watson—Commander of Zouaves.P. Cochrane
Harry, ’ John, Foster, Eugene,
Friends of Frederick,’
...........V..Hackmann ...........H.	Hays ...........G.	McCartney ....:......W.	Clarke
Mr. O’Flaherty, (late of the Emerald Isle)...........J.	Deehan
Doctor Fuzhy.
A. Homsteger
Jake, Bob, Spencer, Samuel,
Servants.
1st. Citizen.

I
C. Hutchings ...J. Dooley ...J. McGuire ...J. McHugh
E. Bahm
2d Citizen.............................J. Combs
1st Newsboy - - -- -- -- -- -- -- M. Mahony 2d Newsboy - -- ---------- -T. Arrington
.	1 Marrantette
Aids to General Watson - -- -- -- - J p. Spencer, (J. Nash.
Admiral Ross - -- -- -- -- -- -- - L. Wilson Captain Henderson - -- -- -- -- -- - W. Clark Zouaves, Citizens, Ac - -- -- -- -- --
GRAND TABLEAU.
Epilogue - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Mark Foote
CLOSING BXMABKS.
March for Retiring ------- N. D. U. Cornet Hand
South Bend • was all in commotion—flags gaily waved in th® breeze—the air was filled with the sonorous sounds of military music and the streets thronged withpeople. “Helloa!” cried a stranger, “ what’s
THE SOHO
LASTIC YEAR.	303
going on here?” “Why, don’t you know,” said a citizen, “ Father Sorin is coming!”
Upon his arrival, the Rev. Father was formally received by the Faculty, placed in a carriage, which was followed by many others—the whole headed by the Notre Dame University Cornet Band—over which floated, in ample folds, the glorious “star-spangled banner”—and escorted to the boundaries of the University grounds, where the “ army of occupation ” was drawn up in orderly silence to receive him—which they did, indeed, in order, but not in silence, as a spontaneous shout of joy went up from the entire “legion,” awaking the echoes for miles around!
Tac tics won the day—and with it, his heart; the triumph was great, though bloodless, and with their illustrious and willing captive in their midst, the “ conquering heroes ” took up their line of march for the venerable church, where, as Christian heroes should, amid the pealing of bells, and roar of cannon, they chanted thanksgivings to God in the time-honored^ words of the “ Te Deum !”
The coup d’ceil presented in the church was solemn and impressive: the students ranged in their places; the Sisters of St. Mary’s, with their numerous pupils, filling one half the body of the church—strangers and visitors the other; the reverent air of all—the altar blazing with lights— the grand Gregorian tones of the Te Deum—the joyous tinkling of the chimes, and the booming base of the “Big Bell”—O, it was a scene never to be forgotten!
Washington Hall was crowded in the evening by an eager throng of the Fathers, Brothers, Professors, Students and attaches of Notre Dame, supported by an imposing array of citizens of South Bend and vicinity, mingled with whom were not a few distinguished visitors from foreign parts, to witness the festivities inaugurated in honor of the occasion.
Upon entering, the eye is at once struck by the adaptability of the immense structure to the purpose for which it was designed; the unusual size of the stage and the richness of its scenes, embellished by the artistic brush of C. A. B. Von Weller, F. R. A.; while the ear as readily feels and appreciates the beauty of the music discoursed by the University Cornet Band, which was organized, and is now so ably led, by Prof. J. O’Neill.
When the honored guest of the evening was seated, surrounded by the Rev. gentlemen and members of the numerous Faculty, addresses were
delivered from the procenium by Prof. L. G. Tong on behalf of the Faculty, by D. A. Clarke in the name of the Seniors, and by M. Foote in that of the Juniors, while last and least (though evidently not in his own estimation) appeared Master E. De Groot, a Minim, ex minimis, who said more and better things in his “ Welcome, dear Father,” and in loftier style, than might be expected from a personage of his lilliputian proportions !	•
Next, Masters V. Hackmann and R. Staley gave utterance to their own feelings of joy, and those of their less tuneful companions, in a charming song written for the occasion by a bard whose name, owing to excessive modesty, is as yet unknown save to the muses. It is only necessary to say that the veteran baton of Max Girac, L. L. D., timed the fairy-like movements of the orchestra ! -	The Curtain
rose, revealing “ the mimic field of strife,” the chequered scenes of joy and grief in the journey of life—the trials, temptations, sad fall, and final repentance of “ The Prodigal Law Student.”
The play itself, written by a talented lady friend, is too well known to require any criticism at our hands, though in our humble opinion the ridiculous, and, to us, humiliating part of “ Misther O’Flaherty, late of the Emerald Isle,” though most admirably personified by James Deehan, might be entirely omitted, without destroying the conection of the plot, or in the least lessening the pleasure with which we witnessed its denouement.
Of the actors, some required a leetle prompting; others, like Oliver Twist, “wanted a little more;” while a few, who were perhaps like Horace’s hero, born actors, laughed and wept, and walked and talked, and fought and bled and died with a “ vim ”—as if they were used to, and rather liked it—their motto, a very good one too, being the energetic dictum of some wise old philosopher (name forgotten ): “ Quod agis, age,” or, in plain English—what you do, do! _
D. J. Wile acted the “broken-hearted father” to perfection—his every word was the embodiment of a*sigh, and his very looks were suggestive of tears; and “like father, like son,” might with equal truth be said of Mr. “Fred” (Staley), while dear generous “Angelo” (Foote), proved himself worthy of the close relationship he bore them. “ Tightfist ” (Burdell), a real, close old miser, died hard, his last words and thoughts—like Shylock’s or an army contractor’s—being of his “ducats” and “ bonds,” and clutching in his grasp, till his
304	THESCHOLASTICYEAR.
last gasp, “the almighty dollar!” The rival “Newsboys” (Mahony and Arrington) will make their fortunes if they continue long enough at the business, but such wide awake, energetic lads are destined for a higher destiny than peddling papers.
“Palinam qui meruit, ferat,"—a proverb venerable for its a^e, and to be honored for its truth, reminds us not to pass in silence those who particularly distinguished themselves in the rendering of their respective roles; hence, in the list of those who blamelessly lived two lives at one and the same time, we are happy to rank Messrs. Coppinger, McHugh, Hutchings, Clarke, Dwyer, O’Connell, Cochrane, McCartney, and Hays.
As for the rest—commodores, generals, high and low privates, land and seamen, citizens, servants, “et id omne genus,"—time, diligently employed in the careful study of their respective parts, will increase their usefulness to society at large, and also the pleasure with which we will hail them when again they cheer us with their presence!
The curtain fell—Father General rose to speak, and deep silence reigned in the assembly:—
“ Conticuere omnes, intentique ora tenebant."
“Wearied though he was, he could not let the occasion pass without at least thanking-them for their kindness, and expressing his heartfelt pleasure at again being surrounded by his dear, dear children. He was not changed—they would find him the same friend . as of old. This was the scene of his labors (and triumphs, thought all!) his home, and as such he would ever love it and never cease begging God to bless both it and its inmates.”
His young histrionic friends were deserving of more praise than he had hoped; the progress shown by the members of the Association was indeed wonderful, and to him, who took so deep an interest in them, really cheering!
Reminding them of the useful lessons to be learned from the play which they had just witnessed, he hoped all would thereby be the more incited to practice virtue and fly vice, and if they ever, like “Fred," forgot the pious teachings of their youth, they might also imitate his repentance and after career of manliness and piety.
With a few kind words to friends of larger growth, and renewed expressions of pleasure at seeing them all, he closed amid thunders of applause,—the bugles and horns of the Band made the welkin ring again, and out we sallied into the starlit night, pleased with all we witnessed
and highly delighted with oiir first visit: to Washington Hall and the University ' of Notre Dame.	“ Coz.”
. ** .
Boating.—Boating, of course, is one of the amusements of Notre Dame.—We should say one of the best physical exercises.- Yet, so far, this important feature of our sports has been left to take care of itself. Some ill-disposed persons have spared no pains to run it down and disturb other people in their honest enj oyment. The two boats now on the lake are fast getting unfit for use,—nay even dangerous,—and we think it advisable to repair them at once if they are worth the trouble and expense, else, buy new ones. The sailing boat • should be preserved on our lake 5 besides that it is less exposed to upset, it affords greater accommodations to the many who like to enjoy a pleasant ride. Much credit is due to those who of late have spared no effort to save from ruin bur little fleet, and we particularly congratulate for this Messrs. J. Dickinson, D. Clarke, J. P. Rogers, and their associates.
t------
The Next Comet.—Celestial curiosity-seekers are promised a novelty, next month, in the return of Winecke’s comet, which has been whisking its tail through space for these’ever so many hundred years. Look out for it.—Register.
The Register is in error in regard to the “ ever so many hundred years.” Winneke’s comet has a period of only 2031 days. Besides, it will probably be useless to “ look out for it,” owing to its small size, and to the fact that it has often passed without being seen even with the aid of the telescope.
It will be here about the 15th of June, if on time.	A.
Very Rev. Father Sorin started for New Orleans on Tuesday last. He is expected to return to Notre Dame in two weeks. Very. Rev. Father Sorin enjoys excellent health and does not seem even fatigued by his long voyage over the ocean.
Communications to The Scholastic Year should be sent directly to the “Editor of the (Scholastic Year," not to the “ Office of The Scholar tic Year.” By this means prompt attendance will be secured, and useless trouble avoided.
The bookbinder is anxiously awaiting the Competitions.	’	.
The reports from St. Mary’s were received too late for publication this week.