Votre Dame Scholastic. «
Uis co quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume IX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 30, 1875.
Number 9.
The Old Church.
But....the chief of the fathers and the ancients, who had seen the former temple,... .wept with aloud voice.—Esdras, iii, 12.
Stick by stick, and brick by brick,
With rope and saw, with hammer and pick, They have taken the old church down.
Ah, rude was the work, though gently done, And sad was the triumph the workman won, When the dear old walls were down!
And many a string of the soul and the heart 1 In sorrow and pain was forced apart,
While the loved and the old came down!
No more the altar, chaste and'bright,
• Shall lift to heaven its blessed light, Altar and lights are down.
The tabernacle, home of Love,
Sweet seraph rest of the heavenly Dove, Alas! that too is down.
No more the eye is fastened there, The spirit rapt in silent prayer, Alas, alas, ’tis down!
Around the wall, no more shall we The sad procession sorrowing see, The Stations all are down.
The Christ no more upon the Cross,
Winning us from our fearful loss, Shall hang in suffering down.
Her speechless grief no more alarms,
Dead to all but the Dead in her arms,	.
As she looks in agony down.
Where Spalding, Purcell, Smarius preached, Whence grace so oft our poor hearts reached, The pulpit too is down.	'
The rich-toned organ now no more Shall swell and echo, o’er and o’er, The golden pipes are down.
The purple light, in wave on wave, No more through transept and through nave Shall come in glory down..
The godlike Eye, that gazed on high As if our inmost soul’twould spy, Shall look no longer down.
And many an eye of blessed priest, Like that kind Eye, its look has ceased, And the voice no more comes down.
. Gone too the font and the stool and the rail, Where bishop and priest to the sinner pale, Brought Heaven lovingly down.
Aye, gone are our hearts with the blissful days When we knelt in those aisles for prayer and praise, Gone with their memory down.
The temple, rising stately, grand, Will shine more glorious o’er the land, Than that which now is down.
But we, remembering, still shall thirst For the beauty and glory of the first, The church they have taken down.
_________________________ H.
-	Apotheosis.
When society was first formed, the people, filled with gratitude and admiration for their leaders, looked upon them as more than human, and felt that their great men could not die. They believed that in reality the hero who had battled for them on earth went to unite himself to the ) Deity, and that beyond the sky he watched over and protected them. Believing this, they offered up prayers to him, sacrificed to him, and built temples in his honor. With the advancement of civilization this belief grew stronger, for the philosophers taught that in man there was something immaterial, which emanated from the divinity, and which when it had purified itself from the stains that it had .contracted by union with matter, returned to' its divine origin; that when the good man died he became first a hero and then a god, his spirit being united to the Deity whence it emanated. Pythagoras taught that the man of virtue after death took his place among the gods. This dogma of ancient belief was derived from the East, and as the Greeks were possessed of vivid imaginations they easily received a doctrine which was so flattering to them. At first they deified their wise men, but as time went on they extended it to all who in any way had bene-fitted the state.	’
The practice once begun, it extended itself until not only were those deified who had rendered their country any service, but lovers erected altars to those whom they hadloved, and parents to their children. Whilst living, Alexander the Great claimed not only a god for his father but even that his nature was divine. He sent orders to all the states of Greece that the people should recognize his divinity. To this order the Lacedemonians returned for answer that as Alexander desired to be a god he should be one! Even the many rulers among whom his vast dominions were divided on his death were paid the compliment of apotheosis, and on some coins of Antiochus is found the word “God,” which this prince had’assumed as his title.
130	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
On the death of Romulus, he was raised to the rank of a god. but from bis time until Julius Cassar died we read of no Roman who after death was placed among the gods. When he was assassinated, and Rome ceased to be a republic, divine honors were paid to his memory. During the lifetime of Augustus, altars were raised for the worship of the Emperor in Gaul and other provinces. With the death of each succeeding emperor the number of the divinities was swelled. On the accession of a new Emperor, he by decree of the Senate sent his predecessor to Olympus and caused his bust to adorn the Capitol. Vespasian always looked with scorn upon this practice, and when he felt his end approaching said, with not a little irony: “ It seems to me that I am about to become a god.” Juvenal, in one of his Satires, makes Atlas complain that the heavens had been so filled with divinities by the many apotheosis that he bends and staggers beneath their weight.
Some of the Roman Emperors, whilst living, caused temples and altars to be erected in their honor. Caligula was was not content with being but one god: he desired to be all of them in turn, and frequently appeared, sometimes as Jupiter armed with thunderbolts, and sometimes clad in female costume he chose to be considered as Venus! Nero had his monkey raised to the rank of a god, and Marcus Aurelius had his wife Faustina enrolled in the list of goddesses. When the Emperors became Christian, the pagans continued to deify them, and to Constantine and his successors altars were raised by those of their subjects who had not yet embraced Christianity. With paganism of course the custom came to an end.
Herodian and Dion Cassius relate all the ceremonies of apotheosis. According to them, a waxen figure of the Emperor was laid upon an ivory couch covered i with cloth of gold, near the entrance of the palace, the body having already been burned. On the left of the couch the Senate, dressed in black, sat, while on the right were noble women dressed as mourners. From time to time physicians come in, and, examining the waxen figure, say that the patient continues to grow worse. Seven days go on in this manner, at the end of which they pronounce the Emperor dead. The couch is now taken up by the young Roman knights and youths of the Equestrian order, Snd carried along the Via Sacra until the old Forum is reached. It is then placed in the Forum, and on either side men and women of noble birth chant hymns of mourning and of praise. The couch is then borne off to the Campus Martins, where a pile, covered with hangings of gold, ornamented with pictures and statues and filled with combustible matter, is erected. There are other piles similar to this, but smaller in size, put on it, and the couch is placed in the second one, while spices, perfumes and incense are put about it. A procession of horsemen, representing illustrious gener-alsjand ancestors of the deceased, then file around the pile. This ceremony over, the new Emperor approaches the catafalque with a torch, and at the same instant the pile is ignited on all sides. As soon as the pile takes fire, an eagle, or if the deceased was a woman, a peacock, is freed from .the highest story of the pile, and, flying up through the smoke and flame, bears the soul of the Emperor to Olympus. The title of divus is then given to the deceased .and he receives the name of some divinity. Colleges of priests and priestesses are instituted in his honor, sacrifices and games are ordered, columns and shields are consecrated to him. Sometimes columns of gold crowned with stars and rays symbolical of divinity were made and placed by the
side of the statues of the gods in public places and in the temples, and it was made a capital offence to destroy or sell them, and to chastise a slave or change apparel before them was punished in the same manner. It is wonderful to think that the Roman Senate could take part in such proceedings.	J. O’C. B.
Anton Rubenstein.
About the year 1841 a young bu^- of eleven years appeared in a public concert in Paris. Among the audience sat the great pianist Franz Liszt, and other well-known musicians, who had come to the gay city either for fame or for employment. The playing of the boy excited universal admiration, and storms of applause were given him. The concert over, Liszt clasped the youth in his arms, and in his enthusiasm exclaimed: “ It is on him that my mantle will fall!” That boy, the future rival of Liszt, was Anton Rubenstein.
Rubenstein was born in November, 1830, at Wechmoti-metz, a Russian town near the border of Germany. His father was of Jewish origin, but was a member of the Greek Church. Being possessed of considerable means, he made liberal use of his wealth in educating his children. The mother of Rubenstein, who was an excellent musician, and a woman of culture, and who is to-day a teacher in one of the institutions of Moscow, had great influence in educating her children, and gave to them the first lessons in music. Nicholas, one of her sons, has attained distinction as a violinist of ability, and Anton still greater as a pianist.
When six years of age, Anton became a pupil of Villoing, in Moscow, and after two years’ study his master brought him before the public in a concert in that city’ The young pianist achieved triumphant success.
Three years after his first public concert, young Rubenstein appeared in Paris, where his success was very great, and where he attracted the liveliest interest of the great Liszt. He then made professional tours through England, where, however, he made but little impression,—Holland, Switzerland, and Germany. For a time he settled down in Berlin, with his parents, in order that he might profit by the teachings of the learned Dehn in the theory of composition. Within the year, however, his father died, and he was deprived of the means of further prosecuting his studies. It became necessary for him to quit Berlin, and he took up his residence in Vienna. There he provided for himself by giving lessons, for he was too proud to receive assistance from anyone, no matter whom he might be.
Being without means of support other than his scanty earnings, he was obliged to work very hard. He devoted the day to teaching his pupils, and a large part of the night to practice and composition. Sometimes it happened that he sat at his table absorbed in composition until the morning dawned. It was during nights like these that many of those wondrous tone-combinations descended to him from the world of harmony, and which have since thrilled so many people with delight.
After a residence of some time in Vienna, Rubenstein travelled through Hungary with the great flutist Heindl, and then returned to Russia. In his native country he was very successful, and it was his good fortune to receive the appointment of pianist and concert-master to her majesty the Czarina. From that tune forward his star came in the ascendant. Fortune has continued unceasingly to

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.	131
smile upon him, and he is now acknowledged as the compeer of Liszt and Von Bulow, one of the greatest pianists of the age.
Russia, his native country, is now the home of Rubenstein, but he does not remain there always. He is a “ bird of passage,” flying from country to country, and remaining but a short time in one place. His concert tours have been through France, Germany and the United States, and have been eminently successful. He is everywhere received with rapturous applause. This year he was elected by the French Academy a correspondent of the section of music.
Rubenstein is the author of a number of symphonies which are remarkable works, an oratorio called the “ Tower of Babel,” and an opera named “ The Maccabees.” Heis one of the modern musical revolutionists, though in a less marked degree than Von Billow and others. The point of his departure in composition is the same as that of the modern German composers—Herr Brahms, Herr Raffl, etc.,— namely the first movement of Beethoven’s Ninth symphony, and the posthumous quartettes; but it does not follow that he has pursued this system of orchestration to excess. As a pianist, he belongs to the school of Liszt, and perhaps equals him in his power and mastery of difficulties. He also possesses to a certain extent Von Billow’s power of identifying himslf with the composer and of faithfully interpreting his spirit.	G. H. L.
1King Arthur.
It is doubtful whether any such person as Arthur, the British hero, ever existed; and if he did reign, his life and exploits are so mixed up with fiction that it is almost impossible to give other than a mythological account of him. He is spoken of not only as a warrior and prince, but as a hero immeasurably superior to those who lived in his times, in all the fragments of Cymric poetry and by most of the early writers. He is said to have lived in the sixth century, and Nennius relates that he triumphed in twelve battles over the Saxons. His great opponent was a Saxon named Cedric, who sought to extend the sway of his countrymen beyond the borders of Wessex. A nephew of Arthur, Modred by name, according to the accounts we have of the hero, revolted from him, and this revolt occasioned the battle of Comlan, in Cornwall, in the year 542, in which Modred was killed and Arthur was mortally wounded. The hero was taken by sea to Glastonbury where he was buried. His place of interment was preserved by tradition, and his tomb was, by order of Henry H, opened in the twelfth century. Giraldus Cambrensis, the historian, who was present when the grave was opened, tells us that he beheld the bones and sword of the king, and also a cross made of lead on which was, in rude Roman letters, the inscription, “Hie jacet sepullus inditus rex Arturus in insula Avalonia.” Among the British Celts it was the firm belief, for centuries after his death, that Arthur would come back on some future day and, driving the hated Sassenach into the sea> restore to the Celtic race the empire of Britain.
The Arthur of romance flourished about the same time as the Arthur mentioned above, and may probably be the same person. He was the son of Uther Pendragon and Igerna, the wife of Gorlois, Duke of Cornwall. With his good sword Excalibar or Caliburn, and his lance Rou, he lew four hundred and seventy Saxons at the battle of 1
Mount Bandon. It is related that the sword Excalibar was unfixed from a miraculous stone by Arthur, although two hundred and one of the most powerful barons had previously been unable to extract it, and it was because of this feat that he was chosen their king. He drove the Picts and Scots from Britain to their mountainous recesses, destroyed the temples and altars of the pagan Saxons, and restored Christianity. It is related that he crossed over to Ireland, and, completing its conquest, sailed to Iceland and annexed that island to his own domains. Having spent twelve years in peace with his neighbors, he again took up arms to renew his victorious exploits. In ten years he made many conquests in both Norway and Gaul. He then returned to Britain, where he held at Caerleon in Monmouthshire a great gathering of kings from many countries subject to him. The Romans having demanded tribute of him, he resolved to punish them for their insolence. Like King Dathi, so celebrated in the legends of Ireland, he put himself at the head of a large army and in a short time having’ravaged Gaul he found himself at the foot of the Alps. He was making preparations to cross these mountains when news was brought to him of the revolt of Modred, his nephew, who had joined his forces with those of the Saxons, Picts and Scots. He returned to Britain and engaged in battle with the enemy at Comlan, in Cornwall. In this battle Modred was killed, and Arthur mortally wounded. When he was about to die he sent an attendant to throw Excalibar into a lake near by. Twice the squire eluded the request, but at last complied with it. A hand and arm arose from the water and catching the sword by the hilt flourished it thrice. The hand and arm with the sword then sank beneath the water and Excalibar was never afterwards seen.
The romance of Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table, who were founded by him and of whom the most famous was Lanceolot of the Lake, has in our day been made quite popular by the present laureate of England, who has in his “ Idylls of a King” made it the subject of his poem. William Morris, in his “ Defence of Guenevere,” has also sung of Arthur and his court. .
In England and Wales the whole country abounds in memorials of Arthur. There are Arthur’s Castle and Arthur’s Seat and Arthur’s Round Table, and even in the constellations we find Arthur’s Harp. In Wales particularly his name occurs frequently, showing how firmly the legend of his existence and exploits were believed by the people.	M. M. G.
Indian Summer.
There is no subject connected with the original race in American life which, probably, holds such a conspicuous place in the minds of the mass of the people as that brief yet surpassingly beautiful season which comes to us about the close of the Autumn, and known as the Indian Summer. A season of weather like to it has been noticed in other countries, and if it be not so charming as it is in America, yet it has even in these lands a charm that has called forth the praises of the poets and caused them to compare it to the halcyon period of the Greeks. Thus Shakspeare in King Henry VI, Part I, speaks of “ St. Martin’s Summer, halcyon days,” in allusion to what in Henry IV, he says :
“ Farewell, thou latter Spring, Farewell, all-hallown Summer.”

132
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The season known amongst us as Indian Summer was known to the English as St. Martin’s Summer, and amongst them derived this name from the fact that in Eng’ land it most commonly begins about the 11th of Novem' her, St. Martin’s day. In France it is called Summer Close and “L’ete de St. Martin,” with a not very gallant doub’e meaning which allows the term to be applied to ladies of advancing years. Perhaps this same idea, though less delicately expressed, may be found in the German name for it, “Der alte Weiber Summer.” In Chili and some of the South American states it is called the Summer of St-John.
In the United States, this season, when “twinkle in smoky light the waters of the rill,” as a rule begins in November, though the period may vary within a month. •During the season this weather is fair, but not brilliant, and the atmosphere is smoky and hazy, perfectly still and moist The sun casts its ray dimly, yet softly and sweetly, through the air, which is called copper-colored by some, and golden by those whose poetical perception is more vivid.
There are different reasons given for the name “Indian Summer.” Some people say that the Indians were particularly fond of it, and regarded it as a special gift of their favorite god, the god of the Southwest, who sends the soft winds of the southwest, and to whom they go when they die. The explanation of the name given by Daniel Webster is that the early settlers so called it because they ascribed the hazy appearance of the atmosphere and the heat to the burning of the prairies by the Indians at that time of the year. The explanation of it by another au. thor, however, seems to be the most plausible explanation given. Mr. Kercheval says: “It sometimes happened that after the apparent onset of winter the weather became warm, the smoky time- commenced, and lasted for a number of days. This was the Indian Summer, because it afforded the Indians—who during the severe winter never made any incursions into the settlements—another opportunity of visiting them with their destructive warfare. The melting of the snow saddened every countenance, and the genial warmth of the sun chilled every heart with horror. The apprehension of another visit from the Indians, and of being driven back to the detested fort, was painful in the highest degree.”	C. S.
The Vision.
It was on a warm day in the month of July when I wandered down to the shore of the lake and threw myself on the grass, at the foot of a noble oak tree whose far-spreading branches furnished a delightful shade from the glare and heat of the sun. I began to muse over my future prospects in life and what I should do in the future, when my eyelids grew heavy with sleep, and I sank into a state of blissful unconsciousness. When I opened them again, to my astonishment I beheld a little man standing before me on the broad leaf of one of the numerous pond-lilies growing near the shore. His attire was gorgeous, and was in the fashion of an ancient date. He wore a doublet of scarlet, trimmed profusely with gold and lace; his pantaloons were of green velvet, and were fastened at the knees by green cords, at the ends of which were tassels of crimson. His hat was like that which was common among the nobility of olden times, of satin, with a large white feather drooping gracefully behind. Over all he wore a long
crimson mantle of velvet, bordered with the richest ermine-As he stood gazing at me with those little red eyes of his, I began to feel uncomfortable under the scrutiny. The fear that I had trespassed upon his lordship’s dominions and was about to suffer the consequences added no little to my embarrassment. At last he broke the irksome silence by asking me of what I had been thinking. Telling him that I had been trying to lay my plans for future action, he gave me the following advice: “ Do not be too hasty in your choice of an occupation for life, as you may live to rue it; many a man who has missed his vocation has done so before you. Study hard now, while you are young and have time, and do not think of what comes after, for in so doing you will lose many precious moments which you can hardly spare. You may rest assured that your vocation will come to you. But before I go I will give you a talisman to which you can have recourse at all times, especially in the hour of need; it is written in this little book.” He gave me a curious-looking book, and immediately disappeared. On opening the book I found it contained only the single word “ Prayer ”! The sun was getting low in the heavens when I awoke, and I returned to the College, not thinking of future prospects, but of my compositionlesson and my talisman.	C. W. R.
I
The Age of Augustus.
In the records of Roman history we meet with the names of rulers who have made their epochs famous. Numa cultivated the rude manners of his people, scarcely rescued from barbarism by Romulus. The reign of Ancus Martins was renowned for the progress made in the art of war as well as in enterprises of a more peaceful nature. Under the republic, men like Scipio and Julius Casar added military glory and honor not only to their own names but to the state, which they exalted in power and might. It was left, however, to Casar Augustus to elevate Rome to a position, as regarded both war and the arts of peace, which it had never before reached.
As regards literature, the age of Augustus rivals the palmy days of Greece, and is perhaps surpassed only by the great ages of Leo X, Elizabeth, and Louis XIV. Augustus had the good fortune to collect about him men of great genius who by their works added a lustre to his reign that shall never be diminished. We are not of the number of those who can see nothing but beauty in the productions of the pagan writers. We are not of those who believe that in literature and art pagan Greece and Rome surpassed the moderns. On the contrary, we hold that in philosophy and in poetry the moderns are superior to the ancients. We believe that the spirit of Christianity is such that it cannot fail to raise the minds of men to a higher perception of the true, the beautiful and the good. Yet while we by no means are excessive in our praise of the works of paganism, it were folly especially in us to deny what has been the unamious opinion of the learned for ages past—that the Rome of Augustus is worthy of the admiration of mankind on account of the great writers who flourished in his time.
In the age of Augustus lived the great historian Livy, whose style, resplendent with the eloquence of the bar, the rostrum and the camp, has been the model and delight of subsequent historians. Virgil, one of the sweetest singers of antiquity, also attended his court,—now ringing of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
133
delights of country-life and love, now of the adventures of JEueas and his Trojan companions, pleasing us with his descriptions, delighting us with his elegance, and melting us to tears with his pathos. In Augustus’ time lived also the philosophic and jovial Horace, now praising the old Falerian which it was his delight to quaff, then satirizing the follies of the day, philosophizing one moment and laughing the next. Ovid too lived in his reign, and though immoral in many of his poems, as most of the heathen writers were—yet in other respects one of the greatest poets of antiquity. There were, besides, other writers, and famous ones too, who served to increase the glory of the age of Augustus. There were Tibullus and Propertius, Catullus and Vitruvius, and others who, celebrated in their time, have passed to that oblivion to which posterity consigns many a name that once was a power in the world.
It was a glorious age; and though it has been rivalled and surpassed, it stands the great epoch in Roman history, when Rome would seem to challenge Greece on her chosen field of literature and science.	J. H. C.
The Ambrosian Library.
The Ambrosian Library, so called in honor of St. Ambrose, at one time Archbishop of Milan, was founded in 1609, in that city, by Cardinal Frederick Borromeo, a successor of the Saint in the archiepiscopal see. It is particularly rich in MSS., for the collection of which learned and energetic men were sent to all parts of Europe and Asia. A large number of palimpsests belong to this library, some of them being exceedingly rare and costly. Among others might be mentioned Cicero’s De.Republica, also many fragments of his Orations, and the Letters of Marcus Aurelius and Fronto. The great majority of these palimpsests were obtained from the Monastery of Bobbio, where they were discovered in 1814 by the librarian, Angelo Maio, afterwards Cardinal. The library contains more than fifteen thousand MSS., among which is one of Virgil, valuable for the notes written on the margin by Petrarch, one relative to his first meeting with Laura. Among these MSS. are the complete works of Leonardo da Vinci on painting, science etc. The library also contains somewhere in the neigh borhood of eighty thousand printed volumes, besides a large collection of statuary, antiques, medals and pictures Among these are the studies of Leonardo da Vinci and a cartoon of Raphael, the “ School of Athens.” During the campaign of Napoleon Bonaparte in Italy, many of the treasures of the library were carried off to Paris; and though most of them were returned, yet some have never found their way back. In connection with the library there is a printing-press, and several professors engaged in collecting and translating manuscripts keep it in continual use.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Offenbach’s new operetta, “ La Creole,” is to be brought out at the Bouffes, Paris.
—The Appletons have in press, “ Weights, Measures, and Money of All Ages,” by Prof. F. W. Clarke.
—Hepworth Dixon has a new book in preparation entitled the “ White Conquest: America in 1875.”
—To the various histories of American literature is to
be added a compend by Prof. Moses Colt Tyler, of the University of Michigan.
—Ambroise Thomas is composing a new grand opera, “Francesca di Rimini.” The instrumentation of his “ Pysche ” is nearly finished.
—The new “History of the University of Virginia,” by Prof. Scheie de Vere, will commemorate 10,006 students in a volume of about 600 pages.
—George D. Prentice’s poems, compiled and edited by Mr. John J. Piatt, are soon to be published. The volume will contain a sketch of Prentice’s life.
—Miss Caroline Herschel, the accomplished sister and secretary of the astronomer, is to be commemorated in a memoir compiled from her own journals.
—Mr. John M. Loretz, Jr., is writing a Grand Overture for the Centennial celebration, entitled “ George Washington.” It will be descriptive and dramatic.
—James Russell Lowell’s “Selection of English Plays and Poems, from Marlowe to Dryden,” will be issued by Little, Brown & Co., in about ten volumes.
—Mr. John Francis Barnett has composed a new sacred cantata, founded on the parable of “The Good Shepherd,” which will be first sung at Brighton, England.
—Lord William Lennox has written and will shortly publish a work entitled, “ Celebrities I have Known; with Espisodes Political, Social, Sporting, and Theatrical.”
—A collection of Water Color Painting of Egypt, Nubia, and the Nile, painted on the spot by Mr. John Varley, has recently been added to the Picture Galleries in the Alexandra Palace.
—The subject of the Marquis of Lothian’s historical prize at Oxford next year is “ The Causes of the Failure of Parliamentary Institutions in Spain and France as compared with their Success in England.”
—We are promised, says the London Academy, a narrative of a stirring peroid, by Charles Loftus, formerly of the royal navy, and late of the Coldstream Guards, entitled. “ My Youth, by Sea and Land, from 1809 to 1816.”.
—The death, at St. Petersburg, is recorded of M. Theodore Bruni, in the 74th year of his age. The deceased was one of the most celebrated painters in Russia, and a member of the Academy of Fine Arts of that country.
—Duverneck of Cincinnati, has arrived in Munich. He, with W. M. Chase, of St. Louis, and Walter Shirlaw, of Chicago, all Western artists, have the honor of standing at the head of the younger American painters in that city.
—Another Turkish comic opera, composed by M. Tcho-hadjian, and entitled, Leblebidji Khorkor, the Pendm’ of Chickpeas, Khorkor, will be performed during the approaching Ramazan at Guedik Pasha Theatre in Stamboul.
—Mr. George Vasey, who has written, “The Philosophy of Laughter and Smiling,” ponderously denounces the absurd habit of laughing (though he tolerates smiling), and comes to the conclusion that “ sensible people never laugh.”
—The veteran artist, Herr Schopf, has recently died at Rome. In co-operation with Wagner and Pettrich in the painting of the friezes of the Valhalla, he early acquired an honorable place among the representatives of the Munich school of art.
—A Centennial monograph on “The German Element in the War of Independence,” by Prof. Geo. Washington Greene, is to be published. It pictures the careers of DeKalb and Steuben, and deals also with the darker side— the history of the German mercenaries. ■
—G. P. A. Healy, the portrait-painter, has taken Mr. Drury’s studio on Huron street, Chicago, and, it is understood, will remain here all the winter, painting portraits. It is scarcely too much to say that Mr. Healy’s best portraits are the best painted by any living American artist.
—The American artistic element is so strong in Munich that they propose, next year, starting a school of their own; in which event they will have a standing in the Bavarian capital such as no foreigners have obtained. The academy under the care of Piloty is affording splendid instruction.
—The issue of Gen. Sherman’s book seems to have
134
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTCI.
in the severe but highly-expressive music of oratorio, and the large audience assembled last night appreciated fully the magnificent declamation of that eminent artist. All the soprano’s solos were redemanded, and, though the interest of the occasion unquestionably centred upon Mme. Titiens’ efforts, a great deal of applause was also bestowed upon the performances of her associates.”
—A meeting of the “New York Centennial Singers Union,” composed of delegates from several of the German singing societies of that city, who are in favor of a German celebration of the centenary of the Republic, was held on the 17th at the hall.of the “ Arion” Society in St. Mark’s Place. It was resolved to offer a prize of $500 for the best festal ode, arranged for male voices and an orchestra, and appropriate to the national Jubilee. The text may be either German or English, and the performance must not require more than twenty minutes. The latest day on which competitions may be handed in will be the 1st of March, 1876. Each manuscript must be inscribed with a motto, and accompanied by a sealed envelope containing a copy of this motto and the writer’s name and address. A committee of three will decide upon the work to be accepted, which shall, upon payment of the prize, become the property of the Union.
—John Forster, in his forthcoming Life of Swift, has made it his special work to picture the early years of his life before “ he was governing Ireland as well as his deanery and the world was filled with the fame of ‘ Gulliver.’” He has secured in this endeavor much unpublished and original matter,among which are important poems of Swift, some ot them copied in the hand writing of Stella; the original MS. of the later portions of the “ Journal to Stella,” by which important omissions are supplied; an unpublished Journal by Swift written during a long detention at Holy head by adverse winds; additions to the fragment of his autobiography ; his note-books and books of account; his letters of ordination; 150 letters by him hitherto unpublished; and ‘ the first edition of ‘ Gulliver,’ interleaved for alterations and additions by the author, and containing, besides the changes, erasures, and substitutions adopted in later editions, several striking passages never yet given to the world.” The three volumes will containseveral fac-similes besides a portrait after Jervas, etched by Rajon.
—The first volume of the abridgment of the debates of Congress, as projected by Messrs. Henry Holt & Co., is ready for publication in shape uniform with the sixteen volumes of Benton’s abridgment, 1789-1856, published by Messrs. D. Appleton & Co. The plan of the work contemplates one volume per session, or two a year, which will include, besides the debates, the President’s annual and special messages and proclamations, treaties, a complete list of acts passed by Congress, and important committee reports. If the current volumes pay, the series will be made complete by the issue of ten volumes linking Benton’s with the present, the material for these being now scattered through about 88,000 pages of the Congressional Globe and other public documents, costing at least §500 to gather, and being collected with difficulty at any price. Subscriptions towards this series are invited. In condensing the debates, Mr. Charles H. Jones, the editor, has endeavored to combine the best features of Hansard’s and Benton’s plans, under the advice of leading congressmen. As Gen. Garfield wrote to the editor, “ It requires an expert to trace the course of business in any bill”; in this abridgment the editor serves as expert, and by eliminating all routine and private business, gives a clear view of the course of each important measure. Digressions and repetitions in the speeches are cut out; otherwise the speaker is quoted directly. The publishers hope to find sufficient patronage to support this enterprise among members of Congress as well as other people, but it is to be feared that in this period of tergiversation, even those who have been most anxious to be “right on the record” will not work hard to put that record too plainly before the people.
—At a meeting of the Centennial art advisory committee, in Philadelphia, it was decided that the exposition of American art should not be limited to living artists, but should embrace the entire century of national existence. This decision will meet with general approbation. It would be unjust to exclude works by such artists as Benjamin West, who rose to be President of the Royal Acad-
quickened war literature in general. The latest memoirs announced are the “ Reminiscences of Forts Sumter and Moultrie,” by Gen. Doubleday, Maj. Anderson’s second in command.
—Karl Formes recently sent a highly complimentary letter to Mme. Clara Brinkerhoff, congratulating her upon the successful debut of her pupil, Miss J. Coleman, in San Francisco. Mr. Formes thinks Mme. Brinkerhoff’s method of instruction to be superior to anything he thought existed in this country.—Watson's Art Journal.
—The Cincinnati Gazette says: “After several weeks of doubt and uncertainty Mr. Otto Singer hasresolved to remain in Cincinnati for the future. It was his attention to locate in Philadelphia if the management of the Centennial Musical Festival was placed in the hands of Theodore Thomas. His numerous friends will hail his determination to remain here with gladness.”
—A work called “The Art Treasures of England ” is in course of publication by Gebbie & Barrie, of Philadelphia, of which the second ten numbers are just completed, The attempt is to reproduce in steel-engraving the best known and greatest works of the leading British artists, both painters and sculptors, of the present century, which are scattered through public galleries and private collections.
—Mr. John Ruskin has recently published a work on Florentine embroidery, under the title of “Ariadne Fiorentina.’’ In it he introduces a description of three remarkable pieces of needlework which he discovered in a room in the King’s Arms Hotel, at Lancaster, where he passed a night. The subject of these tapestries was the history of Isaac and Ishmael, and in their treatment and execution Mr. Ruskin recognized many of the qualities of the Florentine school of embroidery.—Watson's Art Journal.
—The recent meetings at Beyreuth for the rehearsal of Wagner’s great work still continue to be a leading topic of interest in the German musical papers. Among the remarkable reports in circulation is one to the effect that an enterprising theatrical manager proposes to convert the great rotunda of the Vienna International Exhibition into an opera-house, and to produce there in 1877 the entire Nibe-lungen Drama. He hopes to obtain the whole of the dresses, scenery, etc., from Bayreuth for this purpose, and to obtain the assistance of the artists who will take part in the Bayreuth performances next year.
—At Gilmore’s Garden the audiences are as large and fashionable as usual, and all the wealth, fashion and beauty of the metropolis assemble nightly to listen to the exquisite music, promenade, and enjoy the charming tete a tete of the balconies. The Apollo Club is one of the new attractions, and they have sung themselves into public favor; their voices are young and fresh, and have received the most careful training, and they sing operatic choruses, glees and madrigals with a degree of accuracy that would do credit to older artists. Mr. F. H. Williams conducts their performances, and deserves much praise for his successful labors in the instruction he has imparted.—Watson's Art Journal.
—The festival at Bergamo in honor of Mayr and Donizetti proved very successful. It began by the transfer of the mortal remains of the two masters from their temporary resting place in the Cemetery-to the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore. Then came a concert, at which none but works of the two masters were performed. In the evening there was a representation of Don Sebastiano, with Mad. Destin, Signori Abrugnedo, Pandolfini, and Provoleri. The next day a Requiem by Mayr was performed, several pieces by Donizetti and Nini being interpolated in it. The festival wound up with a grand concert, the principal of which was a cantata written expressly for the occasion by Sig. Ponchielli, and entitled Omaggio a Donizetti. The singers were Signori Peralta, Ponchielli-Brambilla, Signori Campanini, Capponi, and Pandolfini.—Watson's Art Journal.
—The New York Tribune of the 21st says: “ A very fine performance of ‘The Messiah’ was last evening given at Steinway Hall by Mme. Titiens, Miss Anna Drasdil, M sws. Wilkie and J. R. Thomas, and the Centennial Choral Union, a choral force only recently organized, but exceedingly proficient nevertheless. Mme. Titiens is at her best
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
135
emy, and John S. Coplev, Stuart, Trumbull, Allston, Van-derlyn, Weir, Cole, Sully, and others who have honored and been honored by our country, and whose ability has been recognized in foreign lands. The committee of selectionsis composed exclusively of artists, to the number of ten, a measure that will assure a creditable displav in this department. It is proposed to collect the works offered at several centres, Boston. New York, and such other places hereafter determined, which will be visited by the committee in due time. Such works as are accepted will be forwarded to Philadelphia, and those rejected to their owners. This •will save expense of transportation and avoid confusion at the gallery previous to the opening of the exposition. In regard to space for art works in Memorial Hall, there are already demands received far in excess of the capacity of the building. It is, however, asserted that the claims thus presented have been very considerably in excess of the space actually required, and as the committee have no means of ascertaining whether they are exact or excessive until the actual arrival of the works, the applications only confuse ratter than expedite matters. In any case, the ultimate result will be simply the selection of the most worthy contributions. Great confidence is felt in the composition of the several committees, and in the executive ability of the chief of the fine art department, Mr. John Sartain, to bring order out of this prospective chaos.—Chicago Times.
—Dr. Von Bulow made his debut on the 18th Oct. in Boston with crest success. We take from theNe w York Tribune the following sketch of the player and his playing: Von Bulow certainly has the most wonderfully-developed technique of any man who ever played in this country. Of that there can be no doubt. He" is probably a man of much higher and more widely-extended culture than any musician we have ever heard; pre-eminently a man of the world, and a gentleman “to the manor born.” There is not one of these qualities that does not make itself felt in his playing His ease is so great—not merely his technical ease in handling the key-board, but his intellectual grasp of what he is playing—that astonishment is the last feeling he awakens in us. Never before did the pianoforte-playing seem so easy. After the first ten bars we forget entirely that it is Von Bulow that we have come to hear. We listen to the music with as exclusive an interest as if we had heard Von Bulow all our lives, were rather intimate with him than otherwise, and he was showing us some new piece, with a view to interesting us in it. We have never seen a player who sunk himself in the composer so completely. He gives you the music, the whole music, and nothing but the music, of whatever he is playing; and as he seems entirely to forget himself in playing, so do we forget him in listening. The composition is all in all for the moment. To judge from his playing of the great Beethoven’s E flat Major Concerto (the first piece he played), he is the most entirely satisfying player of Beethoven that we have yet heard, or can indeed well imagine, and we have by no. means forgotten Anton Rubenstein’s playing of the Sonata, Opus 111. Erom the beginning to the end of the great Concerto every note drew blood. Such power, simplicity, and total absence of striving after effect, can hardly be imagined. Rubenstein was often great, often overwhelmingly passionate, sometimes exaggeratedly boisterous, always wonderful. No matter what he did, he left us astonished either at his greatness or at our own littleness. Von Bulow does not astonish us in the least; we have no time to be astonished while listening to him. He claims our whole attention, and rivets it upon the music, not upon the performance. He is a most wholesome, manly player, a man to hear every day in the year and not grow tired of. Not the least of a sensationalist; even in Liszt’s madcap Hungarian Fantasia, which ended his part of the concert, he did not seem for a moment to be showing off. An astounding piece of composing that same Fantasia is; brilliant everywhere, at times exciting to a high degree, at times quaint, coquettish, and fascinating, but so overloaded with embroidery! Not Liszt at his best, even on his own ground. One thing was noticeable in Von Bulow’s playing of it, and also still more in the Beethoven Concerto. That was his immense command over the orchestra. He was the life, soul, and head-centre of the whole business. It was interesting to see the manner in which he made the orchestra do his will at rehearsals. If a passage went
wrong, he would show his men, by actual demonstration on the pianoforte, how it ought to go, and after a few trials it seemed impossible for any one to play it otherwise. The strength he exhibited at such times was positively marvellous, and even in fortissimo tutti passages the orchestra was scarcely audible above the din of the pianoforte. If you would wonder at Von Bulow, see him at rehearsal. The difficulties he has to encounter, and his consummate ease in conquering them, become apparent then.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Folio for November is at hand. This publication keeps up its reputation as a first-class musical monthly, and subscribers may always feel sure of getting the full value of the subscription price either in the reading-matter or in the choice music it contains.
—The contents of The JJjmhattan and De La Sade Monthly for November, are: I, All Saints, and All Souls; II, Our dear Westchester Home; in. Money and its Materials; IV, Literary Labor; V, Song-Writers and their Songs; VI, Irish Colleges since the Reformation, No. 2; VII, Laurelside; VIII, Mr. Maurice, Chaps. IV-VI.—(Continued); IX, Famous Memories of the Month; X, Waiting for the Train at Rochester; XI, Indian Mounds in California; XII, The New York Catholic Protectory; XIII, The Martyr of Ecuador; XIV, Miscellany; XV, Current Publications.
—The third edition of the American Elocutionist has been received by us from M. R. Keegan, of Chicago, the general Western agent of E. H. Butler & Co., the'publishers. We know of no better work on elocution than this volume compiled by Prof. Lyons. In a book of this kind it is neces-ary to exercise great care in the selections made. Those old extracts that have been heard declaimed by students for the last fifty years no longer do for works of this nature, and the compiler has exercised good judgment in casting them aside, and great taste in his selections to take their places, culling from different authors their best effusions. The essay on voice culture of Rev. M. B. Brown, which serves as an introduction, is one of the ablest we have ever seen. We could desire the introduction of the “American Elocutionist” into all the schools, academies and lyceums of the land.
Butler’s Pictorial History of the United States. By John A. Stewart, Principal of the Reading, Pa., High School. Philadelphia: J. H. Butler & Co.; Chicago : M. R. Keegan, 457 Twelfth St. Pp. 300.
This is certainly the best printed of any text-book now extant, and it contains a simple and truthful narration of the history of this country from its discovery to the present time. We do not find in it that prejudice which is generally found in historical works compiled for the use of schools, and we can say, after reading it, that we are wholly unable to tell to what political party or religious creed the author belongs.	'
—The house of the poet Cowper is still standing in the market-place of Olney, England, as well as the summerhouse in the garden, of which he wrote: “I write in a nook I call my boudoir; it is a summer-house not bigger than a sedan-chair; the door of it opens into the garden, that is crowded with pinks, roses, and honeysuckles, and the window into my neighbor’s orchard. It formely served an apothecary as a smoking-room; at present, however, it is dedicated to sublimer uses. Here I write all that I write in summer-time, whether to my friends or the public. It is secure from all noise, and a refuge from all intrusion.”
—William Shakspeare is singing ballads in London; George Washington has been ordered to leave town; Louis Napoleon is shovelling in the chain-gang; John Bunyan was warned out of a Connecticut town last week as a tramp; Plutarch was hanged in Texas a few days ago for horse stealing; John Hancock eloped last week; Abraham Lincoln was recently caught picking an old gent’s pocket at a country fair; Charles Sumner is in an Iowa jail on suspicion ; Oliver Cromwell was sent to the Cleveland WorkHouse two weeks ago for thirty days. “What’s in a name ? ”—Exchange.
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Wotre Dame, October 30,1873.
Single Copies of THE SCHOSASTIC may now be procured at the Tribune Store, South Bend, and at the Students’ Office, at Five Cents per copy.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, ^Postpaid-
The Employment of Time.
It was said by Seneca that we, all of us, complain of the shortness of time, and yet we have much more than we know what to do with. Our lives are passed either in doing nothing at all, in doing nothing to the purpose, or in doing nothing which we ought to do. We are ever complaining that our days are few, and acting as though there were no end to them. Such is really the inconsistency of man in this particular. While we complain that life is short, and art and science long, we neglect the precious moments which are given us to acquire a knowledge of these, and allow our lives to pass away without accomplish-, ing anything.
As a writer in the Spectator observes, mankind is wholly inconsistent as regards the shortness of time. Though we complain of its shortness, we yet continually wish that it would pass still more quickly; though we are grieved that it is not longer, we wish that every period would more quickly come to an end. We would lengthen the general span of our life, but would shorten the parts by which it is composed. The child longs to have the years of his boyhood pass by, and to come to the years of manhood; the politician wishes that time would go with a more rapid course until it brings him the office he covets; everybody would be glad to have certain portions of their lives glide away with a rapid current. Many hours of the day bear heavily upon us; we wish away whole years just as though these years were as the barren wastes of the desert are to the traveller, that we may reach certain points of rest which we imagine are before us.
It is these hours that rest upon us as a heavy weight, and which we desire may pass away, which we should improve. They are, perhaps, made up of moments which give us the means of enjoying the far future. They are the hours which are given us to learn the ways of virtue and imbibe the principles of science. How often do we not hear a young man wishing away the whole week in order that the day of recreation might come, and with it the game of ball or the afternoon’s walk? And yet it was for these days, devoted to class and to study, that he came to Notre Dame. These days are the ones on which he should employ his whole time, and waste not a single moment; and yet he wishes them all away I
The proper employment of time is a subject which, from its importance, is deserving the best attention of all young men. There are few of them who have not a great deal of it before them, and a few hours of it well spent in early life is of greater use than years in their after-life, when the snows of age shall have whitened their heads. It should,
then, be to them a serious question how to employ these fleeting hours to the best advantage. Every moment they can spare from their studies, and from the innocent amuse* ■ ment which is given them to relax their minds after their hours of class, should be spent in serious reading. The	.
great subject which should occupy their time is their class, and the proper preparation for it. It was for this purpose they were sent to college, and it is to fit them for their after-life that they attend class. A certain amount of rec- ' reation is necessary for them when they have tired their brains in solving problems and construing Latin, but when this has been attended to, the moments they can	i
hoard up should be given to the serious reading of books	i
containing instruction. They should take up some valuable work on history or science and endeavor to master	;
what is contained in it; not going over it in a superficial	j
way, but carefully studying and conning its contents—and	1
never giving it up until they have thoroughly understood	1
them.
There is no occasion for anyone here to complain that	'
he has not access to the proper books. In the Lemonnier	.
Circulating Library can be found any number of valuable	J
works on history, biography, science, literature and art, and of these they can make good use during the year, if they do but desire it. We have on other occasions called the attention of everybody to this Library, and do so again because we feel that no one can employ a portion of his free time to better advantage than by reading the volumes	•
contained on its shelves. Baseball and handball, boating and hunting, are very pleasant things, and there is no harm in them. On the contrary, they serve to give the body that exercise required by it; but they should not occupy all the spare time allotted to the young man. Some of this « time he should devote to the serious reading which it is in his power to procure.
Public Reading.
In order to give the students an opportunity to practice reading in public, it has ever been the custom at'Notre Dame to have daily during two of the meals some one to read aloud from a book selected for the purpose. No better occasion could be given for practising themselves in public reading to those appointed; for, as the halls are large and there must necessarily be considerable noise, it requires	.
great attention and some effort on the part of the reader to be heard, and it gives him every opportunity of exercising himself in the rules laid down in books of instruction.
Every one knows very well that the number of good readers is not very great. That such is the case comes not from want of instruction in the art of reading, but from	.
want of practice. A young boy is taught to read while ' 1 at school; but though he may read a great deal for his own amusement or instruction he seldom has any call to read in public, hence when there is any such call for him he finds that though he knows the proper pronunciation of words and has a pretty good knowledge of stress and inflection, yet his reading is a failure, giving no entertainment	‘
whatever to his audience. He has not had that practice which is necessary for him, or he has not made the proper use of the opportunities when they were presented to him.
Take, for instance, our readers in the dining-halls. It is true we have some readers there whom it is a pleasure to hear. They pay every attention to that proper modulation of the voice which gives us a knowledge of the true
-J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	137

feeling of the author; they pay great attention to the fact that the listeners have not a book before them, and hence require them to read slowly; and they judge of the tone of voice necessary for them to take, in order to be heard by all. But unhappily some do not pay attention to these things, and the consequence is that but few can understand _ them when they read.
So long as we have public reading in the dining-rooms, the readers should understand that their objectshould be to make themselves heard. Unless they do this, their reading, no matter how well it may be in other respects, is useless. They should, then, take that pitch of voice which will enable them to be heard in all parts of the room. They should endeavor to pronounce the words so clearly and distinctly that no one may be in any doubt as to what was said, remembering to avoid the two extremes into which readers are apt to fall, of speaking either too fast or too slow. The reader’s voice should be perfectly natural. Again, he ought to pay proper attention to the pauses, and endeavor to give’ that variety to the tone of voice as will render his reading pleasing to all. He ought to pay particular attention to emphasis, accent, and cadence, laying the stress of voice on just such words as need it, and varying the tone as may be necessary.
It should be the desire of all to excel in public reading, and in order to do this they are required to pay great attention to what they are doing. It is too bad to have a poor reader in the dining-rooms. It makes it a real penance to be forced to sit for half an hour, knowing that an interesting book is being read, and yet not be able to hear or understand anything of it. It makes all the difference in the world when a good reader takes the stand. Then everybody listens to what is read, and no one feels as if he was in penance. It is to be hoped that all our readers will endeavor to improve themselves in this accomplishment, and give to their companions that enjoyment at table which can come to them only by good reading.
The New York Herald.
We see that many of the Eastern Catholic papers, and notably the Catholic Reciew, are waging a vigorous war against the’ New York Herald because of the anti-Catholic spirit which is noticeable in it. The Herald pretends to be very favorably disposed towards the Church in the United States, and on certain occasions when there is a great display giving it an occasion to make use of plenty of head-lines it really makes its seeming appear to be earnestness and sincerity. But how much of truth there is of true sympathy or even of fairness in thespirit which actuates the managers of the paper is evident to all who read the paper. The ink which prints the article showing its friendship is hardly dry before another article replete with sentiments of bigotry and ridicule is penned. No occasion is allowed to pass by without their making use of it to insult their.Catholic readers and show their scorn for their religion.
It would be supposed that a paper conducted as the New York Herald would have few subscribers or none among Catholics; yet this is unhappily not the case. Many of its readers are Catholics, and many more of them should be, did they but live up to the teachings which they received in their youth. Catholics subscribe for it because they say that in it they find more news than in any of the
other papers. But this is no excuse for them. Even supposing that the Herald was conducted with more ability than the other papers in New York, which we would by no means admit, it does not justify Catholics in giving it aid so long as it ridicules and brings into contempt the doctrines of their Church. Let a newspaper oppose the political ideas and sympathies of these same men, and they will discontinue it, no matter with how much ability and. enterprise it may be conducted by its managers. Catholics should act in the same manner towards those papers which display their hostility towards the Church, and to this class the Herald belongs.
We would say to all students: Do not take the York Herald under any circumstances, for though it pretends to be friendly and fair to the Church, it is in reality one of its worst enemies.
Personal.
—	J. M. Lye, of ’68, is in business at Ft. Wayne, Ind.
—	Mrs. Klan er, of Chicago, was here on Tuesday last.
—	C. J. Lundy, M. D., of Detroit, was here on the 20th.
—	Mr. E. J. Slick, of South Bend, was here on Sunday last.
—	T. M. O’Leary is dotting local items in Watertown, Wis.
—	“ Dick ” Kelly, of ’67, is in the grocery business in St. Louis.
Prof. D. Paul is now the organist at St. Patrick’s Church, Chicago.
—	G. F. B. Collins, the cartoonist of ’59, is residing at Niles, Mich.
—	Rev. E. B. Kilroy, of ’49, is still parish priest at Stratford, Ontario.
—	“Jimmy ” Taylor, of ’69, is in the grocery business in the Garden City.
—	Harvey Taylor, of ’69, is practicing the photographic art in Chicago.
—	A. H. Kemfield, of Syracuse, N. Y., visited Notre Dame on the 24th inst.
—	Louis Hibben, Jr., of ’70, is in the tobacco business with his father in Chicago.
—	Mr. G. J. Lonstorf, of Negaunee, Mich., spent a day or two with us this last week.
—	Joseph H. McManus, of’75, is now following an architectural career at Marshal, Mich.
—	Mr. R. F. Wheeler, of South Bend, paid Notre Damo a visit on last Sunday afternoon.
—	Mr. C. Sheerer, the hat and cap man of South Bend, was here on a tour of inspection Sunday last.
—	Mr. 0. G. Angle, of’70, is now in Salt Lake City with the Wheeler & Wilson Sewing Machine Co.
—	“ Tony ” Trentman, of ’68, is a partner in the firm of Tren'tman Bros., wholesale grocers, Ft. Wayne.
—	P. Dechant, B. S., of ’67, was elected State Senator from the Seventh Ohio District on the 12th inst.
—	John J. N^y, of ’74, is the junior member of the law firm of Lake, Harmon & Ney, Independence, Iowa.
—	James Carroll, a former Scholastic compositor, is at present engaged at his chosen profession in a New York publishing house.
—	A. J. Mooney, of ’74, is away up in the wilds of Wisconsin. He is in the employ of the Wisconsin Central Railroad at Wooster.
—	Brig. Gen. Wm. F- Lynch, of ’60, spent last Wednesday with us. He looks the picture of health, and tells us he is prospering in his business at Elgin, Ill.
—E. H. Spain, of the Herald, R. H. Lyon, of the Tribune, Dr. H. M. Brodrick, and Mr. D. M. Coonley, of South Bend, comprised a party of visitors to Notre Dame on last Thursday.
138
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Among the late visitors we noticed Dr. Humphreys and lady, South Bend; Mr. and Mrs. Abbot, Michigan; Mrs. Coolbaugh, Mrs. Williams, and Miss Bella Hall, of Chicago; Mrs. M. Askew, Brainard, Minn.; Mr. Ewer and lady, of South Bend ; Sir. and Mrs. H. M. Wing, and Mrs. E.*W. McGrath, Flint, Mich.
—The Daily Morning Times, Grand Rapids, Mich., speaking of the great Union Fair lately held in that city, which had been visited by upwards of 25,000 people, clearing from all sources a sum of $4,500, which will be applied towards removing the debt of the Kent County Agricultural Society’s grounds, says that among other features exhibited at the fair was “ a spendid little boat, with a steam engine and screw, belonging to Master Willie Kelly, of Muskegon. It was greatly admired by all who saw it, and reflects credit upon the builder.” The dimensions of the boat are 15 feet over all, 4 ft. 9 in. beam; size of engine,2JX diameter of cylinder by 4 of stroke; size of wheel, 14; rate of speed, 6 miles, per hour. Wm. D. Kelly, the builder, will be remembered by the students of ’71-2, at which time he attended class at the College here.
—We take the following complimentary notice from the New Brunswick (N. J.) Daily Times of Saturday, October 6th. It may prove interesting to those who were acquainted with Mr. Hoynes here in ’69:—
“We had the pleasure to-day of a visit from Wm. Hoynes, Esq., a former city Editor of the Times. Mr. Hoyues is now on his way to New York city, where he intends to locate, having been to Washington, D. C., where he was admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the highest tribunal in the land. Since his departure from this city he applied himself diligently to the study of his profession. He will remain a few days in this vicinity, visiting his former acquaintances. From a copy of the La Crosse “ Daily Republican and Leader ” of Aug. 31 we clip the following complimentary notice in reference to the gentleman above named: ‘ Mr. William Hoynes, an old resident of this city, and highly esteemed, left to-day at 12.20 via C. D. and M. Railroad for Chicago, where he will remain a few days and then proceed to Washington, remaining in that city until the Supreme Court convenes. He will then be admitted to practice law in the highest tribunal of the Union, and fully prepared with certificates to contest with his professional brethren for supremacy. Mr. Hoynes is a gentleman of good natural abilities and correct habits, and he is full of energy and industry. His literary education is, in many respects, superior to that obtained by the graduates of Yale and Harvard, while his knowledge of the law is far more extensive and complete than is usually possessed by even the higher grade of lawyers. He is a graduate of the Law University of Ann Arbor, Michigan, and has been admitted to all the State courts and to all the Federal courts, excepting only the United States Supreme Court, to which, as before stated, he will apply for admission in October next. Unless baffled by obstacles which defy human power to surmount, he will succeed, for he possesses, in an eminent degree, the elements which insure success; and as New York is to be his future field of operations, if he rises at all he will float into prominence on the top wave of fortune. We have no worse wish to offer than that his highest ambition may be realized.’ We extend to Bro. Hoynes the right hand of fellowship, and wish him great success in his new field of labor.”
Local Items.
—It is getting winterish.
—No baseball last Wednesday.
—The trees are losing their leaves.
—Low-crown hats are still in fashion.
—Agri got tired out and vamoosed the ranche.
—“ I cannot live on wind ” is a stout expression.
—Monday is All Saints’ Day, and Tuesday is All Souls’
—“ Da Mere Angot ” is the favorite of an esteemed friend of ours.
—Silas says that the duty of a “promoter ” here is to get up lunches.
—In the Junior refectory the readers are engaged with “Excelsior.”
—The baseball clubs at the Manual Labor School are in fine condition.
—There are thirty-three persons learning trades at the Manual Labor School.
—Large cisterns have been built near the Church in order to carry away the rains.
—In such weather as we had on last Tuesday the yard is deserted and the hall is lively.
—The Minims will occupy their new dormitory in the Infirmary building the coming week.
—“ How is that for high?” said Silas Newcomer, gazing at the new chimney of the steam-house.
—A week from next Friday, November 12th, is the anniversary of the death of Rev. N. H. Gillespie.
—We certainly will not grieve when the many piles of bricks which we see on the premises are carted away.
—If we may judge from the public reading of the St. Ce-cilians, we anticipate good acting on the 23d of November.
—The Retreat began on Thursday evening, and will end to-morrow morning. It is preached by Rev. Fr. Golovin.
—The Archconfraternity of the Immaculate .Conception in the Junior Department is the largest Society in the place.
—Nearly everybody went walking last Wednesday afternoon, and it wasn’t the very best of days for walking either.
—The beauty of the garden is vanishing with the frosts. The gardener is occupied the whole day long preparing for the winter months.
—That lamp lately placed near the church has long been needed, and is appreciated those dark Sunday evenings when the boys come out from Vespers.
—Quite a number of swings, etc., have been put up in the Senior Recreation Hall, which enables the young men to take plenty of exercise during the winter.’
—The Observatory has been opened every clear night during the past week or so, and our young astronomers make good use of the opportunity afforded them.
—By mistake the name of Prof. J. F. Edwards, President, was omitted from the list of officers of the Columbian Society published in the Scholastic of last week.
.—Some one has said: " Would you spite your neighbor, give his boy a drum.” We judge that there is.an enemy of the Minim Prefect somewhere who wishes to spite him.
—In an item last week we said that our weather-prophet had prophesied that we would have twenty more rains this fall. We should have said either rain or snow storms.
—The work of removing the debris of the old church drags along, and that item still remains somewhere in the foundation waiting for the pick and the crowbar to bring it forth.
—Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger dedicated the new church in Chesterton, last Sunday. He was assisted by the pastor, Rev. Father Lang, and Rev. Jacob Lauth, C. S. C., of Notre Dame.
—The walks to the new Church, though not of asphalt, will be found very convenient when the raining season commences, and will protect the highly polished boots of many a student.
—Some three hundred chickens of tender years were introduced to the coop on Wednesday last. The boys will introduce themselves to the delicious pets as soon as an opportunity presents itself.
—The smile that wreathes the lips, and the proud flush that mantles the brow of Silas Newcomer when, on Thursday evening, he hears “ Oue for everything” read out for him are quite pleasant to see.
—Just one year ago yesterday, the 29th, Rev. A. Lemon-nier breathed his last. On the anniversary of his death a Solemn High Mass was sung, at -which all the students, through respect for his memory, attended.
—Of the Baseball Clubs now in existence at Notre Dame the Excelsior and Quickstep Clubs are the oldest. All the clubs organized at the time these two clubs were have ceased to exist or are merged into other clubs.
—Among the letters regretting the inability to attend the Thespians’ Entertainment were those received from Hon. Schuyler Colfax, Mr. Veasey, and Charles Paine,
THE NOTRE DAME SCETOLASTIC.
139
I /
I "
General Superintendent of the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad.
—Among the best readers in the Junior Refectory are. Messrs. Schmidt, Tamble, Faxon and Arnold. They make themselves heard and understood in all parts of the hall. We hope tp be able to name other good readers in the course of the year.
—The first regular meeting of the Society of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held on the 10th inst. Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., and Rev. T. D. Collins, C. S. C., were elected honorary members. The Society numbers forty members.
—For the past two days the sound of the violin and brass horns, piccolo, flute and piano have not disturbed the dwellers in the music hall. Even the performer on the-bass-drum has given up his rehearsal, But wait until the retreat is over, and then----
—Rev. A. Lemonnier, the anniversary of whose death was solemnized at Notre Dame yesterday by a High Mass was the fourth President of the University. The Presidents so far have been Very Rev. E. Sorin, Revs. P. Dillon, W. Corby, A. Lemonnier, and P. J. Colovin.
—The second regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held on the 23d inst. Essays were read by Messrs. Maas and McHugh, and declamations delivered by Messrs. Logan, Campbell and Mc-Nulty. W. P. Breen was elected a member.
—It is to be hoped that all who had the happiness to take part in the annual retreat will treasure up the words of wisdom which they heard from the lips of the eloquent preacher, and not let them fade from their memory. They should at times through the year recall them and make them their rule of life.
—The ardor with which most of the students began their studies at the commencement of the year has not yet begun to flag, and bids fair to continue throughout the whole year. The students in the Commercial Study-hall especially are worthy of all praise for the lively interest they take in their classes.
—The original friend John writes us that the chief reason why he did not return this year was the gross injustice practiced in the weekly notes. He said there were two boys sitting in front of him who were continually cutting up, and they always received as high as five or six; but he, no matter how well-behaved and studious during the week, could never obtain more than two.
—With the boiler-music on the west, the printing-press below, the cutting-machine above, the Minim snare-drum on the east of us, and the sound of the steam coffee-mill filling up the intervals of silence, we can heartily appreciate the happiness of the participants in the retreat. All that is lacking to make our prophetic tongue wiggle in a sweet and gentle manner is a little music by the Band.
—The Manual Labor School, under the general direction of Bro. Francisde Paul, continues to flourish as usual. The boot and shoe establishment under B. Constantine, the tailor-shop under B. Casimir, the blacksmith-shop under B. Francis Joseph, and the carpenter shop under B. Charles, are all busily eng iged in the work usually done in such shops, and the work turned out by them is A No. 1.
—Mr. Editor .- Will you please inform.me why there is no Society for the Commercial Students? All the societies are run in the interests of the up-stairs and western study halls. Is there anything in the constitutions of the Thespian and the Philodemic Societies which prevents a student of the Commercial Course becoming a member of them?	Yours truly, A.
. —The 8th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Oct. 26th. C. Whipple and J. French delivered a dialogue. Declamations were delivered by Masters A. K. Schmidt/P. M. Tamble, H. D. Faxon, J. A. Lynch, J. T. Foley, O. Ludwig, J. French, C. Clarke, R. J. Golsen, E. Raymond, A. Burger, C. V. Larkin, G., Lonstorf. Master A. Ryan gave a very interesting account' of words generally mispronounced. P. M, Tamble read an historical essay entitled “ Tennessee.”
—A friend asks us the following question to verify a date: On what day of the week, what month and day of
the month in the fall of A. D. 1845, did the present Most Rev. Archbishop of Milwaukee visit Notre Dame University ? I can only give this date : An eclipse of the moon took place that night about 8 p. m., and the boys were allowed out to enjoy the scene, and, though few in number, did their utmost at shouting during the darkness./Tott.
Will some of our friends, who know, please answer?
—The 2d regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-triah Association took place Oct. 18th. The following is the list of officers for this session: Vice-President, E- W. Washburn; Rec. Sect’y ,N. Vanamee; Cor. Sect’y, W. E. Hally; Treasurer, F. Hoffman; Librarian, C. Ham; Sergeant-at-arms, E. C. Laub: 1st Censor, C. Walsh; 2d Censor, H. Sickel; Prompter, G. Nester; Marshal, F. X. Goldsberry. After the election, declamations were delivered by M. Mosal, E. Hally, N. Vanamee, G. Nester and F. X. Goldsberry.
—One year ago yesterday, Rev. A. Lemonnier—at that . time President of the University—died.	To show that
his memory Jias not died out, and that he is still remembered by his former students, a Solemn High Mass of Requiem was sung by Very Rev. A. Granger, assisted by Rev. P. J. Colovin as deacon and Rev. J. A. O’Connell as sub-deacon. When Mass was over, a procession was formed, and all repaired to the cemetery, where a beautiful statue of the Immacula e Conception was unveiled. The statue, which is a fine specimen of art, was purchased by the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, and is a beautiful token of their love for their former Director. An address was made by Rev. W. F. O’Mahony, replete with sentiment and eloquence, and which will be long remembered by those who heard it.
—The following books have lately been placed on the shelves of the Lemonnier Circulating Library: Wening-er’s Lives of the Saints, Parts I, II, and III; Works of Lord Bacon, 2 vols.; Memoirs of W. T. Sherman, by himself, 2 vols.; The Writings of Lactantius, 2 vols.; The Writings of Irenteus, 2 vols.; The Writings of Hyppolitus, 2 vols.; The Writings of Cyprian, 2 vols.; The Writings of Methodius, etc.; The Writings of Arnobius; The Writings of Origen ; The Writings of Thaumaturgus Dionysius of Alexandria and Archelaus, 1 v.; Tertullian against Mercian; Clementine and Apostolic Constitutions; Donne’s Poetical Works; Tom Brown at Rugby; Tom Brown at Oxford; Optic’s Boat Club Series, 6 v.; Yacht Club Series, 6 vols.; B. 0. W. C. Series, 5 vols.; Luck and Pluck Series, 4 vols.; Ragged Dick Series, 6 vols. The Directors of the Library return thanks to Master W. Taulby for three volumes, viz.: Glimpses of Nature, Science and Art; The Manners and Customs of the World; and The School Boys. Also to Master J. English for two books donated to the Library.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Bearss, W. Ball, M. Blackburn, j. Beegan, W. Canavan, P. Cooney, J. Cooney, F. Glaffey, D. Connors, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, E. Chalfant, T. Carroll, W. Dickerson, H. Dehner, J. Dryfoos, J. Dwyer, J. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, B. L. Euans, W. Fogarty, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, G. Gross, A. Hertzog, J. Harkin, J. Handley, T. Hansard, S. Kennedy, J. Kurtz, F. Keller, W. Kreigh,P. Kennedy, J. Kreutzer, T. Logan, J. Lipp, E. Monohan, P. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, D. Murphy, H. Maguire, -J. Monning, R. Maas, F. Maas, W. Murdock, V. McKinnon, P. McCauley. G. McNulty, T. McGrath, R. McGrath, W. McGorrisk, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, H. O’Brien, Carl Otto, J..O’Ronrke, E. Peffer, man, J. Perea, J. Quinn, T. Quinn, C. Robertson, F- Rettig, J. Retz, J. Rudge, C. Saylor, G- Sehweighardt, G. Sullivan, F. Vander Vanhet, R. White, F. White, C. Weber, T. Wendell.
y/	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
>E F. Arnold, T. J. Byrnes, A. H. Benjck, A. Burger, C. J. Clarke, W. J. Davis, F. Ewing, J. M. Cavanaugh, J. T. Foley, J. French, F. J. Flanagan, P. J. Frane, E. D. Gleason, C. H. Ham, P. Hagan, W. Hake? F. Hoffman, B. Heeb, E. Hall, G. Huck, M. Kautzaur, F. Klaner, J. Knight, AI. Kauffman, C. Larkin O.Lud-wio-, J. McClory, M. McAuliffe, G. Nester, W. Nicholas, J. E. Nelson, M. A. Otero, C. Orsinger, J. O’Meara, C. Peltier, E. F. Riopelle, F. Rosa, E. W. Raymond, T. Schwuchou, W. A. Shee

140
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTC
han, G. F. Sugg, W. Taulby. P. Tumble. C. Walsh, H, Weber, C. J. Whipple", M. Halley, J. English, A. McIntosh.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. Faxon, C. C- Campau, F. P. McGrath, T. A. Hooley, 0. W. Lindbera, G. Duffield, J. Nelson, F. Pleins, R. Pleins, J. Haney, G. Rhodius, G. Lambin, J. Seeger, O. Stanton, W. McDevitt, W. Coolbaugh, W. Smith, C. Bushey, C. Long, E. Oatman.
Class Honors. •
"FOB THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY OCT. 38, 1875.
Collegiate Course.
Senior Year—T. F. Gallagher, F. Devoto, E. Monahan, J. J. Gillen, B. L. Euans, H. L. Dehner, E. Graves.
Junior Year—T. Hansard, J. H. Cooney, C. Atchison, N. J. ^Mooney, H. C. Cassidy, J. A. Brown.
Sophomore Year—J. Ewing, W. P. Breen. W. T. Ball, R. J. Maas, C. Otto, J. McHugh.
Freshman Year—A. Hertzog, T. McGrath, G. Sullivan, J. F Monning, G. McNulty, A. K. Schmidt, A. O’Brien, R. McGrath
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. C. Campau, L. J. Frazee, J. A. Duffield, P. P. Nelson, F. A. Campau, G. Lowery, F. Pleins, R. Pleins, A. J. Bushey, J. Nelson, C. Faxon, F. P. McGrath, O. W. Lindberg.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] preparatory course.
Juniors—C. Gustine, C- Ham, P. Frain, M. Kauffman, M. Otero, W. Hake, P. Hagan, J. Fox, J. Foley.
Seniors—E. Sugg, E. Pefferman, D. Byrnes, T. Quinn, J. Lipp, R. Calkins, J. Quinn, F. Maas.

—French and German recreations resumed during the past week. .
—Nutting is one of the occupations of the girls during recreations. The fine weather is suggestive of long walks.
—The officers of the St. Angela’s Literary Society are: President, Georgie Kelly; Vice-President, Nellie King; Sec’y, Mamie Hooper; Treasurer, Mary Railton.
—Competitions in grammar and rhetoric are now the order of the day; consequently even during the dinner-table recreations the contest is kept up in a very pungent and lively manner.
—Very interesting letters from Mother Superior, dated the 4th inst., and written at Luxemburg, give the pleasing information that she will leave for St. Mary’s on the 1st of November.
—The Minims ornament their Department by erecting pretty oratories decked with Autumn leaves. The taste shown by these young artists excites great expectations of their future skill in the ornamentation of homes and altars.
—St. Eusebia’s-Literary Society.was reorganized Wednesday evening, Oct. 6th. The following were elected officers: President, Ada Byrne; Vice-President, Charlotte Woodward; Secretary, Minnie Cravens; Treasurer, Katie Morris.
—On Sunday evening the pupils assembled in the Study-Hall to bid farewell to their much esteemed friend, Miss E. A. Starr, whose lectures on “Art” have for three years formed a most interesting and instructive feature of the scholastic term at St. Mary’s. Miss Starr leaves for Italy, on a visit to the most famous shrines of Religion and Art. She carries with her the most affectionate wishes of her numerous friends at the Academy. Her return will be hailed with joy. She has promised to make the interest
of the Art Department of St Mary’s one of the objects of her journey.
—Our Cousin Jane has turned her Bible leaves to some purpose. Read her reply to the Query of last week: “When Josue marched round the walls of Jericho with his army six days, on the seventh the priests blew a prolonged and broken note from the jubilee trumpets. Jane says it must have been this way. The priests walked in single file, and when the breath of the foremost was almost exhausted each took up the note in turn: by this manner that note was equal in length to the time it took to march round the city, and moreover, when the people shouted near that pitch, no wonder the walls fell. . If some kind friend will furnish the circumference of Jericho he shall have the name of that note, unless he should be too uneasy, we are in hope, and trust, he may also find the origin of the phrase “ Go to Jericho.”
—St. Ursula’s Feast, happily for the Seniors, fell on a regular recreation day, and thus afforded the French classes and Senior department the time to do justice to their grateful expressions of joy in honor of their loved Prefect and teacher. The Study-Hall was prettily decked out in festive style, and in the evening a very graceful little entertainment was given. Misses T. Gaynor, J. Locke and C. Morgan gave the musical part of the programme; Misses M. and E. Thompson, H. Russel, M. Brady, M. Dunbar, A. O’Connor, M. and K. Hutchinson, J. Bennet, A. Walsh, L. Arnold, A. T. Clarke, M. Faxon, J. Nunning, F. Dilger, A. St. Clair, K. Joyce, N. McGrath and B. Wilson, took the different characters in a very instructive little play called “Princess Veracity.” At the close, Rev. Father Vagnier complimented the pupils on the good taste shown in selecting a drama so replete with high-toned Christian sentiments.
Tablet of Honor.
senior department.
Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, J. Locke, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara, L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nanning, M. Faxon, F. Dilger, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, M. Brady, M. Walsh, L. Kelly, C. Woodward, L. Henrotin, E. Mann, A. Byrne, A. Duncan, 8. Hole, C. Morris, M. Cravens, J. Pierce, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Culliton, M. Spier, E. O’Neil, R. Casey, A.Hen-neberry, H. Julius, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, A. Prettyman, C. Morgan, H. Russell, M. and E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. Gaynor, E. O’Connor,. B. Siler, I. Maas, U. Goodell, S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, M. Hutchinson, L. Gustine, T. O’Brien, S. Swalley, M. Parker, L. Moran, N. King, E. Cannon, M. Siler, E. Edes M. Hooper, L. Fawcett, L. Tighe, M. Usselmann, D. Locke, M. Markjr, A. Sievers, M. Thelan, L. Schwass, A. Miller, L. Lcppig, F.CGur-ney, L. Brownbridge, C. Morrill, C. Fawcett, M. Telford, C. Whitmore, R. Filbeck, M. Weber, L. Johnson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. O’Connor, M. Hogan, I. Fisk, B. Wilson, L. Kirchner,^ A. Cullen, E. Lange, M. Mulligan, H. Dryfoos, M. Ewing, A. Koch, N. McGrath, N; O’Meara, H. Holladay, L. Walsh, M. Schultheis, A. Harris, M. Derby, N. Mann, A. Ewing, M. Redfield, M. Bell, A. Morgan, D. Gordon, J. Mitchell, A. Kirchner, J. Morris, L. Chilton, L. Kinsella, L. Falkoner, L. Merritt, A. McGrath, E. Mulligan, E. Simpson, I. Mann, M. Hughes, C. Hughes, A. Peak, J. Smith, M. Davis, M. Feehan, M. Lambin, R. Goldsberry, J. Duffield, M. McFadden, L. and A. Schnurrer.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
To be honorably mentioned in Music, the pupil must have an average of at least 80 during two weeks. Many falling short of the mark, the list this time is not long. Diligence is the means to obtain distinction.
1st Class—Misses H. Foote. 2d Div.—Misses E. O’Connor. G- Kreigh, H. Julius.	’
2d Class—Misses. J. Nunning, K.'Hutchinson. 2d Drv.— A. Dennehey, M. Julius.
SDjClass—A. Harris, M. Cravens, B. Wilson, L. Kirchner, L. Henrotin, I. Maas, G. Wells, A. Sievers, A. St. Clan-, E. Dennehey, A. Byrnes, A. Duncan. 2d Div.—M. Spier, M. Usselmann, C. Morgan, M. Hutchinson.
4th Class—J. Locke, F. Dilger, F. Gurney, H. Russel, K. Joyce, M. Roberts, M. Redfield, J. Bennett. 2d Div.—M. Thompson, A. O’Connor, M. Reily, L. Johnson, N. Tuttle, A.' Gordon, E. Thompson.	-
T	Class—A. Kirchner, E. Lange, M. Schultheis, L. Kinsella,
<• Holladay, M. Thelan. 2d Div.—B. Siler, L. Gustine, L. Merritt, L. Leppig, U.Goodell, L. Moran, A. McGrath, L. Walsh,

(
THE NOTRE DAjME SCHOLASTIC.
141
M. Siler, A. Walsh, S. Hole, M. Walsh, N. McGrath, I. Reynolds, M. Gaynor, 0. Woodward.	.
6th Class—M. O’Connor, L. Sehwass, T. O’Brien, M. Brady, S. Edes, M. Mulligan, A. Miller. 2d Drv.—E. Pierce, L. Brownbridge, S. Swalley.
7th Class—J. Pierce, M. Marky, E. York, E. Cannon. Placed in this Class lately—Misses D’Arcy, C. Eawcett, R. Filbeck, L. Fawcett, L. Tighe.
8th Class—C. Hughes, R. Goldsberry, M. Hughes.
9th Class—Wanting in average.
10th Class—L. Lambin, E. Mulligan, J. Duffield, J. Smith.
To be classed—A. Prettyman, L. Weber, A. Spangler.
Harp—E. O’Connor, E. Dennehey.	.
Guitar—Miss Devoto.
Organ—Miss C. Whitmore.
Exercises, Scales and Theory will be comprised in the stand-• ing notes in classes on the Bulletins for October.
FOR SALE. .
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located, gregard to Church and Markets, a very desirable properte consist!11 of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame honys well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery etc., will be sold at reasonable figures toa good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN
-	Td^.TL’W^'Z-.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
FESKU ARIS’, 1875.
_	TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side).
On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Trains with Through Cars to
WE"W YORE.
Lv. CHICAGO... Ar. FT. WAYNE.
u
Lima.......
Forest...... Crestline... Mansfield.. Orrville...
Massillon... Canton .... Alliance... Rochester. Pittsburgh.
Lv. Pittsburgh.
Ar.
u
Cresson...... Altoona...... Harrisburg.. Baltimore... Washington. Philadelphia. New York... New Haven.. Hartford .... Springfield.. Providence.. Boston.......
No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y
No. 6.
Pac. Exp. Daily.
No. 4.
Night Ex. Ex Sa &,Su
9 00 a.m.
2 25 p.m.
4 35 “
5 34
7 00
7 50
9 42
10 15
10 33
11 15
1 18
2 20
3 10
u
a.m.
7 30 “
12 05 p.m.
6 25
. 9 10
4 15
7 35
11 10
12 40
1 35
4 25
I 5 50
a.m.
«
5 15 p.m.
11 35 “
1 25 a.m.
3 01 “
4 40 “
10 00 p.m.
5 20
a
<c
o S
9
11
20
00
17
10
a.m.
(C
On and after Sunday, May 23,1875, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 35 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo
10	30; Clevelands pm; Buffalo 9 15.	■
IO 39 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p m: Cleveland 10 15.
12 57 p m, Special New York Express, over Aly lane; arrives at Toledo 5 60; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 05 am.
9 IO p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland. 7 1'5; Buffalo, 1 10 p it.
7 53 pm, Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 30; Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 pm.
4U p m, Local Freight.
*	GOING WEST.	■
3 am. Express. Arrives at Laporte 4 15p m, Chicago 6 30 a m.
4 53 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte5 45; Chicago
820 a m.	-
3 pm. Evening Express. Arrives at Lapcrte 3 55; Chicago 6 30.
4, 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45: Chicago, 8 20.
S 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago
11	30 a. m.	> s
8 25 am, Local Freight.	'
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
7 45 “
8 00 “
8 40 “
11 12 “
12 15 p.m.
1 10 “
11 50 “
1 46 p.m.
2 19
2 38
3 20
5 58
7 05
8 10
«
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
5 55
11 05
3 15
6 20
3 10
6 50
10 49
12 23
a.m.
1 00 p.m.
3 48 “
4 50 “
12 10
4 13
7 45
9 07
8 05
11 15
3 36
5 55
7 03
a.m.
«
«
p.m.
05
<t
Ct
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	■
F. R. MYERS, G- P. & T. A.
Chicago, Rock Island, and ^Pacific.
.Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10	15a.m.	4 CO p.m.
Peru accommodation................... 5	00 p m.	9 30 a m.
Night Express........................10	00 p.m.	6 15 a.m.
M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundsed Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and - -the Peninsular Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee..................................... §5	00
Board, Bed and. Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek included), Washing aud. Meneing of Linens, per ‘ session of five months •............................. 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, and. Hebrew, each... 10 00
Instrumental Music.................................... 12	5q
Use of Piano.........................................  10	00
Use of Violin........................................... 2	50	•
Telegraphy............................................  10	00
.__ (General	Class Principles..............  10	00
Vocal Lessons,	j Vocal	Culture........................ 15	oo
Elocution—Special Course............................ -5	00
Use of Library (per session)......................... T	00
Drawing............................................. 15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus...	5	00
1 Classical Course.................' 10 00
Graduation Fee, 4 Scientific Course................. 10	00
( Commercial Course................  5.00
Students who spend their vacation at the University are charged, extra.................................. 40	00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.	■
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.	‘
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, address	'
Rev. F. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.
142
r THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, IEFDIANA.
JAMES BONNET,
TIEBE ZFZtBOTOGUEUJk.ZE’ZEYZEZEd
Corner Michigan and Washin t on Sts.,
SOUTH HHTSTTD, TTTZDTJLETJL.
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near die Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently • here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
THE OED RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind. i
Messrs. Knight and Mills have’become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated,.repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladle- and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts ot home during their stay. .
JERRY KNIGHT, I
CAPTAIN MILLS, f ProPnetors.
D. W. KUSS & CO.
KEEP THE	.
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS
For Meals, Oysters,
ICE CREAM, LIES, ETC.
MEATS AT AEL HOURS.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON, IDRESTTIST, 109 TZETCZSTGr-A-ZUT STEEET, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.____________________ PHILADELPHIA BAZAR.
pollack,
97 Michigan St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
A new and complete assortment of Hosiery, Gloves, Fancy Goods,White Goods, Embroideries, Laces, Ribbons, Artificials, Parasals, Sun. Umbrellas, etc. Agents for Domestic Patterns. Large stock of Zephyr Germantown Works’ Yarns.
Rents’ Furnishing Goods A Specialty.
M. Livingston & Go.,
„ .JLLYE THE •
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Send.
They Have tlie Best Cutter in tlie City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Clotlis, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Enrnisliiiig Goods, is the largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisiaction guaranteed on all goods.
BEMEMBEB THE PLACE,
94 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEWD, HTD.
is&a.
IL	i
Dealers in
BOOTS JL2STJD SHOES.
The Largest Retailing House in the State Comer of WasMngton and Mgai Sts., SOUTH BEND.
GANDYI CANDYI CANDYI
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory, 100 Van Buren St., CHICAGO, IBB. Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy..................................15c
Fine Mixed Candy..............................25c
Choice Mixed Candy............................35c
Caramels......................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy......................25c
Proportionately Eow Prices to Wholesale Casli Buyers.
PROPRIETOR OF THE '
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARI’S ’BUS LINE !
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
jVttacJietl to tlie ^National Hotel. andAd-jaeent to 1 lie Ivalee Sliore and
•	Micliigan Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made between. Notre Dame and my office,'through the Michigan Southern Repot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mery’s, I refer,-by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. SHICKEY.
THE NOTR^E DAME SCHOLASTIC.
143
I
Have you any thought of going to California? Are yon going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs. Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette, Green Bay. Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If.you. wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other.
This popular rou’e is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, well-b’lasted and perfect track of steel rails. Westinghouse air brakes, Miller’s satety platform and coupler0, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway traveling.	'
PULLMAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hnghitt,
General Superintendent.
W. H. Stennett,
Gen’l Passenger Agent.
MICHIGAN CENTRAL R. R.
Time Table-.August 39, 1873.
	♦Mall.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtiantic Express’.	tNight Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p m	9 00 p.m
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 01 “	6 35 “	7 43 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		9 02 “	12 15 p.m	8 30 “	8 55 “	12 45 “
“ Jackson		2 12 p.m	4 05 “	7 00 a.m	12 47 a m	4 55
Ar. Detroit		5 45 “	6 30 “	10 15 “	3 50 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 50 a m	4 00 p m	5 40 p.m	9 50 “
“ Jackson		10 37 “	12 30 p.m	7 15 “	9 25	12 45 a.m
“ Niles		3 40 p,m	4 19 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 15 “	5 45 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 45 “
Ar. Chicago		7 35	8 00 “	10 20 *’	6 30	8 00 “
DUSON & GO’S MU IC BOOKS
For Catholic Churches.
Books containing Morning and Evening Service.
THE OFFERTORIUM....................Fiske.	2.50
The newest work. Plenty of easy as well as more difficult music. •
THE CANTATA. No. 1 Morning Service..Werner. 2.25
THE CANTATA. No. 2. Evening Service.. “	2.25
THE MEMORARE........................... 2.75
THE CATHOLIC CHOIR BOOK............Garbert. 2.50
LYRA CATHOLLCA...........Wilcox	& Southard. 2.50
STABAT MATER.................................Rossini.	45
By Beethoven, in C.___ 65
Haydn, 1st, 2d & 4th ea. 80
Haydn, 6th..........1.00
Haydn, 7th & Sth, each. 65
Haydn, 3d...........1.00
Rossini Messe Sol’nelle 1.60
Bordese, in F......... 65
De Monti, B flat......65
Guignard............1.00
Southard in F.........50
“ D................50
Weber, in E flat......65
“ G................50
Mozart, 2d, 7th & 9th, ea 65
“	1st Mass.......65
“	12th............80
'•	15 th...........65
Gounod, Messe Sol’fielle 80
Concone, mF............65
Farmer, B flat.........80
Lambillotte, Pascale.. .2.50
Niedermeyer..........1-25
Stearns, in A........1.50
Thayer, No. 1........2.00
Zimmer...............2.00
Snhwl Bnohs
Constitute a perfect series, providing in the best manner for every class in every school, academy and seminary.
AMERICAN SCHOOL MUSIC READERS.
In 3 books, of which Book 1, (35 cents), is admirably arranged for primary schools. Book II (50 c^nts), and Book III (50 cents) for Grammar and younger High School or Academy classes. Compiled by L. O. Emerson and W. S. Tilden.
Niles and Soutli Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.
CHEERFUL VOICES
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p m.
“ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7 23 “
Ar. Niles— 9 00 “	8 00 “
§9 0G a.m.
9 07 “ 9 40 “
§7 00 p.m.
7 07 “
7 40 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “
4 20 p.m.
4 56 “
5 05 “
§8 00 a m.
8 32 “
8 10
§5 CO p.m. 5 32 “ 5 40 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. §Sunday only.
H. B. Ledyard,	Wm. B. Strong,
Ass’t Gen’l Snp’t, Detroit.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. &T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
- NEW BOOKS.	OLD BOOKS.
C. M. GILBERT,
DEALER IM
Books & Stationery,
197 South Clark St., Chicago.
SCARCE BOOKS.	RARE BOOKS.
(50 cents), by L. O. Emerson, is a capital collection of school songs for common schools.
THE HIGH SCHOOL CHOIR,
(§1), by L. O. Emerson and W. S. Tilden, is fully equal to their last book, “ The Hour of Singing,” which for some years has been the standard book. The present work, like the other, is for High Schools, Academies and Seminaries.
THE NATIONAL HYMN & TUNE S00E
50 cents), furnishes the best collection of sacred music.ex-tant for opening and closing schools.
Any of the above books mailed, postpaid, for the retail price.	‘
|j^“The prices above given are for one style of binding, A slight increase for more expensive styles. -
OLIVER DITSON & CO., CHAS. H. DITS3N & CO.,
Boston.	711 Broadway, HEW YORK
LYON «fc HEALY, Cliicago.

128
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
©mtral ButeL
SOUTH BEND, IND. newly opened—first class in all respects. HENRY C. KNILL, Prop. “CLOTHING HOUSEI
ZMIZE YZEIEU. LTNUTTEG-STOJSE, 60 Washington St., Three Doors West ol Blum’s Cigar Store,	SOUTH BEND, IND
pg-Keens on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps. Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
BOOKS & STATIONERY’
117 AND 119 STATE STBEET,
OTZTOJYG-O, ILT-iTTTOIS. .
CL ZE3Z. SZEHLEHEEL-tijJzL,
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and. Gents',Furnishing Goods, Etc., HO Micliigan Street,
SOTTTH ZBIEZISriD, TJSTID.
LUCIUS G. TONG,
AND NOTARY PUBLIC,
U0. 9 Oflfl TellOWS’ BlOCK, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
SAMUEL ENGEL,
THE CLOTHIER,
Invites your attention to his
Merchant Tailoring Establishment, No. 90 Michigan Street, SOUTH ZBZEHSTID., TTsTZDZA-TT-A.
Only First Class Work Made Up
At Reasonable Prices.
If Desired, "Will Bring Samples and.
Take Measures at the University^
A. C. SHIRE,
WHOLESALE
D3ALEB IK HAVANA CIGARS.
. - 1O1 Main Street,
Two Doors soufli ol Efl. Giiieii’s,	south bend, Indiana
[Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.] McDonald, THE EHOTOGHAFHEH, Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
TUEUSTTLYU SPETH, Corner "Wasliington and. •Micliigan Sts., (Under Coonley’s Drug Store) ' SOUTH BEND, UXTDIAJXTA.
L. E. MAYR
KEEPS THE PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE, Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS. ASD JEWELRY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
EISTG-R A VESTGr A SPECIALTY
Repairing Done in the most Skillful manner.
69 WASHINGTON, St,,
SOUTH HH1TTTD.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER, MERCHANT TAILORS Clothiers and Dealers in
Gents’ Furnishing Goods, Kats, Caps, etc., 109 NIicliigan St., SOTTT'TZ ZBIEHSTZD, TTTTDTJLTSrjL. The
A. McKay, Prop., HILES, MTOTZTG-JLTTL Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House The Students’ Office, HENKY ZBDTTAZ, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc No. 54. "Washington St., souttzh: hzettzd, tttid.