Heite Jtme tie»
BBvnted ta the interests nf the Stuxtente,
Volume V.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 7, 1871.
Number 5.
Tales by the Camp-Fire.
NUMBER THREE.
The Hindciiainman’s Story.
“A very remarkable story that! Mr. Porter," said the Leveler, as the Transitman concluded.
“Yes; I flatter myself it is rather an exceptional experience;” replied Porter. “ But it is my call, I believe. Let us hear our matter-of-fact friend, Henry, tell us a ghost story.”
“Gentlemen, in the first place, I must begin by stating, solemnly, that I don’t believe in ghosts. I trust I have been too well educated for that.”
“We do not doubt that, friend; but one of the great peculiarities of ghosts is, that they always appear to those who are the most determined not to believe in them. Now, / believe in ghosts, and I haven’t seen so much as the shadow of one.”
“Well,” said the Hindchainman, “if you are inclined to listen to my experience of the supernatural, you shall have it:
“It was in the summer of 1859, being a journeyman printer, that I stopped at a little village of Slichigan and obtained temporary employment in the solitary newspaper office that enlightened the minds of the citizens and expressed the views of the dominant political party. It was a quiet little place, unbosomed in the shade of numerous locust trees, whose white blossoms aud fragrant perfume attracted myriads of bees, for it was the spring season, and a beautiful spring it was that year in Michigan. A female college afforded to the place the slight importance it possessed, and it was the catalogue of this institution that gave occasion to my employment in the printing office. The many delays consequent on a lack of sufficient type, which was only to be supplied by borrowing from cities at a distance of from twelve to twenty miles, protracted | the work continually; and accordingly, I spent a I very pleasant and eventful month at A----.
“I had not been there long before I became aware that the minds of a large portion of the good people of the place were exercised on the subject of ‘ Spiritualism.’ Indeed, to such a degree had infatuation reached, that one of the leading ‘ mediums ’ used to blindfold himself and go out in the woods, gathering such weeds as he might happen to lay hands on, expecting that ‘the spirits’ would direct him to herbs that would be beneficial for medicinal purposes. The results of his expedition he applied to cure the diseases of his dupes, and if they failed in the desired effect the patients were reassured by the explanation that there were ‘bad spirits’ as well as ‘good,’ and that the former made it their sport to lead the mediums into error.
“Among the most infatuated was one of my fellow-workmen whose name was Richard Bailey. The others, although not quite so far gone, never ventured to ridicule ‘spiritual’ manifestations. This I did however, most unscrupulously, to Dick’s horror, for he even professed to be a medium. He and I shared the same bed, which was hr one of the large rooms adjoining the office. Our bed was in one comer, and the rest of the room was oc-
“LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
cupied as a rag-room,—for the proprietor dealt in old rags, which he exchanged for paper in Detroit.
“As I said before, I am not a superstitious man; but after retiring, Dick generally turned the conversation to subjects of a preternatural character. And I confess that this conversation, carried on in the dark or what served only to make ‘darkness visible,’ the white moonbeams struggling through the murky, unwashed windows at the other end of the apartment, falling on the shapeless heaps of rags, and causing them to assume weird and fantastic forms,—all this did not contribute to the maintenance of that perfect equanimity which should characterize the philosopher.
“This state of things had gone on for more than three weeks. I was about to leave A------, and I had as yet seen nothing supernatural, although Dick professed to be constantly favored. As we lay one night in bed, I remarked that it was about time that he convinced me of the truth of his pretentions to be a medium, if he wished to make a convert of me, when he exclaimed: ‘Listen!’ It was the music of a guitar.
“I knew that there was a guitar in the printing office, belonging to one of the hands. "We always locked up the office before retiring, and I knew that the guitar was safe in its case. I said: ‘ Why! somebody has broken open the office, and is playing on Pete’s guitar.’ But all that Dick answered was: ‘Listen!’
“The music became clearer and more distinct It was an accompaniment—a very simple accompaniment, too—to a well known popular air. Truth I compels me to say that the performance was by no I means faultless—in fact, foreign chords seemed sometimes to be introduced on purpose, and as they jarred upon the ear a faint peal of scornful laughter appeared to follow them.
“Louder and more decided grew the tones. Dick and I both sat up in bed. He pointed with his finger, and I looking after it, saw indistinctly in the dim moonlight, the fgure of a guitar suspended in the air, without any visible snpport, at a distance of about three feet and a half from the ground, and from this the music proceeded.
“I shuddered. Dick seemed quite composed. ‘Do you see anything?’ said he.	. ■
“ ‘ Yes;’ said I. ‘ I see the guitar?
“ ‘ Anything else ?’ asked he,
“‘No;’ said I, but as I spoke, I saw, or fancied I saw, a pale, bluish, misty hand, fingering the strings of the instrument However, I said nothing.
“‘Now,’ said Dick. ‘Ask any questions that can be answered by ‘yes’ or ‘no,’ and the spirit will answer you. ‘Yes’ will be denoted by a single note—‘no’ by two?
“ Hardly had he said this, than the tune having ceased, a single note, loud, dear and singing, issued from the guitar.
“I then proceeded to put a series of questions. All of them that Dick might easily answer by his own knowledge or inference were answered correctly; others were about evenly divided as to the correctness or error of their answers. Those that I asked relative to future events were about in the same predicament; but the answer was always
sharp and decisive, and of course, I could not judge of the future then. And I must confess I was dazzled by the correct answers rather than inclined to cavil at the incorrect ones.
“This questioning was cut short by a clap of thunder which shook the whole house. A dark shadow intercepted the rays of moonlight which had alone enabled us to see. Our bed shook. It seemed to be elevated into the air and whirled around. In my terror—I confess it—I clung to Dick. He told me not to be afraid. Chaos seemed to reign amid the darkness. Flashes of lightning showed the rag-bundles all flying about the room. Confused noises completed the horrid entertainment.
“How long it lasted I cannot tell. In the morning I awoke from a feverish sleep, to find Dick gone, and the room otherwise presenting its usual appearance.”
[to be continued.]
The Mysticism of Number.
Part H. Continued.
Numbers Formed, with Admixture of Duality.
[concluded.]
§ 2.—SIX, AND OTHER NUMBERS.
Six bears the same relation to seven that two does to three. It falls short of being manifest truth, and therefore is manifest falsehood. "We see it in the number of sins against the Holy Ghost; and in the “number of the beast,” which is six hundred and sixty and six.
Nine, being the number of the angelic choirs, may stand for the angelic nature, as ten stands for human nature.
We have now sufficient numbers determined as guides to the signification of the rest. Let us recapitulate :
One: truth.
Two: falsehood.
Three: mystery. Four: creation. Five: redemption. Six: manifest evil. Seven: manifest good. Nine: angelic nature. Ten: human nature. Twelve: triumph and final bliss. The first number wanting in the natural series is eight. Now this is 4x2, and, according to its factors, should show some good made out of evil, or some evil ruining something already established for good. In the Eight Beatitudes we have the first of these cases, where things accounted evil in this life are made the sources of eternal good.
Eleven and thirteen not having factors, we find in them the mere redundancy and deficiency of twelve—a number so perfect that it can hardly be maintained amid the imperfections of earth. So the Sacred College of the Apostles originally
2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
numbered twelve, but by the defection of one, eleven only were left. When the number was again made up by the election of St. Matthias, it soon became redundant by the divine vocation of St. PauL Yet wc always speak of the twelve apostles.
Fourteen being 7x2, should show falsehood oppressing truth, or truth victorious over falsehood. . Both,—the first visibly, the second secretly, —may be observed in the fourteen stations of the Cross.
• Fifteen, 5x3 the mysteries of redemption; which are the fifteen mysteries of the Rosary.
Such numbers as can be factored in different ■ways, may have different significations, thus: forty Vis 5x8 isfot penance, as the forty days of Lent; but as 4x10 is for humanity confirmed against evil. See in the “Lives” of Alban Butler how the Forty Martyrs prayed that “ this holy number might not be broken.”
Forty-two as 7x6 shows the most active numbers for good and evil combined. A terrible strife must be the re-ult. This is the number of months assigned in the Apocalypse as the time of persecution of the Church. It was, in fact, the usual duration of a persecution under the Roman Emperors. And it is about the same as “ a time, and times, and half a time;”—three years and a half
That this is an approximate, not an absolute period of time, is shown by the expression 1,260 days used as an equivalent,' Apoc. xii, 6; because 1,260 days make forty-two months of thirty days each, whereas, three years and a half contain forty-two calendar months.
Thus we might go on and show the significance of other derived numbers. There is no harm in this form of Pythagoreanism, since we do not deify the numbers themselves, or make a superstitious use of them, as “ lucky ” or “ unlucky.” We seek merely the order of Providence in this, and worship the wisdom of His laws, by which all things are meted out in harmony, rhythm, and number.
S.
[Selected.]
EBIC; or, Little by Little.
A Tale of Roslyn School.
By Frederic W. Farrar, FeEow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
PART FIRST.
CHAPTER V.
THE SECOND TERM.
Take ns the foxes, the little foxes that spoil our vines; for our vines hare tender grapes.—Cant, ii, 15.
The second term at school is generally the great test of the strength of a boy’s principles and resolutions. During the first term the novelty, the loneliness, the dread of unknown punishments, the respect for authorities, the desire to measure himself with his companions—all tend to keep him right and diligent But many of these incentives are removed after the first brush of novelty, and many a lad who has given good promise at first, turns out» after a short probation, idle, or vicious, or indifferent.
But there was little comparative danger for Eric so long as he continued to be a home-boarder, which was for another half-year. On the contrary, he was anxious to support in his new remove the prestige of having been head-boy; and as he still continued under Mr. Gordon, he really wished to turn over a new leaf in his conduct towards him, and recover, if possible, his lost esteem.
His popularity was a fatal snare. He enjoyed and was very proud of it, and was half inclined to be angry with Russell for not fully sharing his feelings; but Russell had a far larger experience of
school-life than his new friend, and dreaded with all his heart lest “ he should follow a multitude to do evil.”
The “cribbing,” which had astonished and pained Eric at first, was more flagrant than even in the Upper Fourth, and assumed a chronic form. In all the repetition lessons one of the boys used to write out in a large hand the passage to be learnt by heart, and dexterously pin it to the front of Mr. Gordon’s desk. There any boy who chose could read it off with little danger of detection, and, as before, the only boys who refused to avail themselves of this trickery were Eric, Russell and Owen.
Eric did not yield to it; never once did he suffer his eyes to glance at the paper when his turn to repeat came round. But although this was the case, he never spoke against the practice to the other boys, even when he lost places by it. Nay more, he would laugh when any one told him how he had escaped “skewing” (t. e. being turned) by reading it off; and he even went so far as to allow them to suppose that he wouldn’t himself object to take advantage of the master’s unsuspicious confidence.
“I say, Williams,” said Duncan, one morning as they strolled into the school-yard, “ do you know your Rep.?”
“No,” said Fric, “not very well; I haven’t given more than ten minutes to it.”
“ Oh, well, never mind it now ; come and have a game at racquets. Russell and Montagu have taken the court.”
“ But I shall skew.”	_
“ 0 no, you needn’t, you know. Fil take care to pin it upon the desk near you.”
“Well, I don’t much care. At any rate I’ll chance it.” And off the boys ran to the racquetcourt, Eric intending to occupy the last quarter of an hour before school-time in learning his lesson. Russell and he stood the other two, and they were very well matched. They had finished two splendid games, and each side had been victorious in turn, when Duncan, in the highest spirits, shouted, “Now, Russell, for the conqueror.”
“ Get some one else in my place,” said Russell ; “ I don’t know my Rep., and must cut and learn it”
“ Oh, bother the Rep.,” said Montagu, “ somebody’s sure to write it out in school, and old Gordon ’ll never see.”
“ You forget, Montagu, I never condescend., to that.”
“ Oh, aye, I forgot Well, after all, you’re quite right; I only wish I was as good.”
“ What a capital fellow he is,” continued Montagu, leaning on his racquet and looking after him, as Russell left the court; “ indeed, I may say a regular stunner. But I say, Williams, you’re not going too, are you ?”
“I think I must, I don’t know half my lesson.”
“Ohno! don’t go; there’s Llewellyn; he’ll take Russell’s place, and we must have the conquering game.
Again Eric yielded; and when the clock struck, he ran into school, hot, vexed with himself, and certain to break down, just as Russell strolled in, whispering, “ I’ve had lots of time to get up the Horace, and. know it pat.”
Still he clung to the little thistledown of hope that he should have plenty of time to cram it before the form were called up. But another temptation waited him. No sooner was he seated than Graham whispered, “Williams, it’s your turn to write out the Horace; I did last time, you know.”
Poor Eric. He was reaping the fruits of his desire to keep up popularity, by never denying his complicity in the general cheating. Everbody seemed to assume now that he at any rate didn’t think much of it, and he had never claimed his real right up to that time of asserting his innocence.
But this was a step further than he had ever gone before. He drew back—
“My turn what do you mean?”
“ Why, you know as well as I do that we all write it out by turns.”
“Do you mean to say Owen or Russell ever wrote it out ?”
“ Of course not; you wouldn’t expect the saints to be guilty of such a thing, would you?"
“I’d rather not, Graham,” he said, getting very red.
“Well, that is cowardly,” answered Graham angrily; “ then I suppose I must do it myself.”
“Here, I’ll do it,” said Eric suddenly; “shy us the paper.”
His conscience smote him bitterly. In his silly dread of giving offence, he was doing what he heartily despised, and felt most uncomfortable.
“There,” he said, pushing the paper from him in pet; “I’ve written it, and I’ll have nothing more to do with it”
Just as he finished, they were .called up, and Barker, taking the paper, succeeded in pinning it as usual on the front of the desk. Eric had never seen it done so carelessly and clumsily before, and firmly believed whaf was indeed a fact, that Barker had done it badly on purpose, in the hope that it might be discovered, and so Eric be got once more into a scrape. He was in an agony of apprehension, and when put on, was totally unable to say a word of his Rep. But far as he bad yielded, he would not cheat like the rest; in this respect, at any rate, he would not give up his claim to' chivalrous and stainless honor; he kept his eyes resolutely turned away from the guilty paper, and even refused to repeat the words which were prompted in his ear by the boys on each side. Mr. Gordon, after waiting a moment, said :
“Why, sir, you know nothing about it; you can’t have looked at it. Go to the bottom, and write it out five times.”
“ Write it out,” thought Eric; that is retribution, I suppose;” and, covered with shame and vexation he took his place below the malicious Barker at the bottom of the form.
It happened that during the lesson the fire began to smoke, and Mr. Gordon told Owen to open the window for a moment. No sooner was this done than the mischievous whiff of sea air which entered the room began to trifle and coquet with the pendulous half sheet pinned in front of the desk, causing thereby an unwonted little pattering crepitation. In alarm, Duncan thoughtlessly pulled out the pin, and immediately the paper floated over Russell’s head, as he sat at the top of the form, and, after one or two gyrations, fluttered down .in the centre of the room.
“ Bring me that piece of paper," said Mr. Gordon, full of vague suspicion.
Several boys moved uneasily, and Eric moved nervously round.	■
“ Did you hear? fetch me that half sheet of paper.”
A boy picked it up, and handed it to him. He held it for a full minute in his hands without a word, while vexation, deep disgust, and rising anger, struggled in his countenance. At last; he suddenly turned full ou Eric, whose writing he recognized, and broke out.	.
“So, sir! a second time caught in gross deceit. I should not have thought it possible. Your face and manners belie you. You have lost my confidence forever. I despise you.”	.
“ Indeed, sir,” said the penitent Eric, “ I never meant ”—
“ Silence—you are detected,1 as cheats always will be. I shall report you to Dr. Rowlands.”
The next boy was put on, and broke down. The same with the next, and the next, and the next; Montagu, Graham, Llewellyn, Duncan, Barker, all hopeless failures; only two boys had said it .right —Russell and Owen. .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

£*J
Sir. Gordon’s face grew blacker and blacker.
The deep, undisguised pain which the discovery-caused him was swallowed up in unbound indignation. “False-hearted, dishonorable boys,” he exclaimed, “ henceforth my treatment of you shall be very different. The whole form, except Bussell and Owen, shall have an extra lesson every halfholiday; not one of the rest of you will I trust again. I took you for gentlemen. I was mistaken. Go.”’ And so saying, he waved them to their seats with imperious disdain.
They went, looking sheepish and ashamed. Eric, deeply vexed, kept twisting and untwisting a bit of paper, without raising his eyes, and even Barker thoroughly repented his short-sighted treachery; the rest were silent and miserable.
At twelve o’clock two boys lingered in the room to speak to Mr. Gordon; they were Eric 'Williams and Edwin Bussell, but they were full of very different feelings.
Eric stepped to the desk first. Mr. Gordon looked up.
“ You! 'Williams, I wonder that you have the audacity to speak to me. Go—I have nothing to say to you.”
“ But sir, I want to tell you that ”—	‘
“Your guilt is only too clear, Williams. You will hear more of this. Go, I tell you.”
Eric’s passions overcame him; he stamped furiously on the ground, and burst out, “I will speak, sir; you have been unjust to me for a long time, but I will not be ”—
Mr. Gordon’s cane fell sharply across the boy’s back; he stopped, glared for a moment, and then saying, “ Vcry well, sir! I shall tell Dr. Bowlands that you strike before you hear me,” he angrily left the room, and slammed the door violently behind him. ’
Before Mr. Gordon had time to recover from his astonishment, Bussell stood by him. “ Well, my boy,” said the master, softening in a moment, and laying his hand gently on Bussell’s head, “what have you to say ? You cannot tell how I rejoice, amid the deep sorrow that this has caused me, to find that you at least are uncontaminated. But I knew, Edwin, that I could trust you.”
“ Oh, sir, I come to speak for Eric—for Williams.” Mr. Gordon’s brow darkened again and the storm gathered, as he interrupted vehemently, “ Not a -word, Bussell; not a word. This is the second time that he has wilfully deceived me; and this time he has involved others too in his base deceit.”
“Indeed, sir, you wrong him. I can’t think how he came to write the paper, but I know that he did not and would not use it. Didn’t yon see yourself, sir, how he turned his head quite another vyay when he broke down?”
“ It is very kind of you, Edwin, to defend him;’1 said Mr. Gordon coldly, “ but at present, at any rate, I, must not hear you. Leave me; I feel very gad, and must have time to think over this disgraceful affair.”
Bussell went away disconsolate, and met his friend striding up and down the passage, waiting for Dr. Bowlands to come out of the library.
“ Oh, Eric,” he said, “ how came you to write that paper?"
(t Why, Bussell, I did feel very much ashamed, and I would have explained it, and said so; but that Gordon spites me so. It is such a shame; I don’t feel now as if I cared one bit.”
“ I am sorry you don’t get on with him; but remember you have given him in this case good cause to suspect You never crib, Eric, I know, so I can’t help being sorry that you wrote the paper.”	•
“But then Graham asked me to do it, and called me cowardly because I refused at first.”
“ Ah, Eric,” said Bussell, “ they will ask you to do worse things if you yield so easily. I wouldn’t
justly hurt. Eric, with real shame, observed the deep vexation of her manner, and bitterly repented his share in the transaction.
Next morning Dr. Bowlands, in full academicals, sailed into the fourth-form room. His entrance was the signal for every boy to rise, and after a word or two to Mr. Gordon, he motioned them to be seated. Eric’s heart sank within him.
“ Williams, Dunean, and Llewellyn, stand out!’’ said the Doctor. The boys, with downcast eyes and burning cheeks, stood before him.
“ I was sorry to notice,” said he, “your shameful conduct in chapel yesterday afternoou. As far as I could observe, you were making yourselves merry in that sacred place with the personal defects of others. These lessons you receive here must be futile indeed if they do not teach you the duty of reverence to God, and courtesy to man. It gives me special pain, Williams, to have observed that you, too, a boy high in your remove, were guilty of this most culpable levity. You will all come to me at twelve o’clock in the library.”
At twelve o’clock they each received a flogging. The pain inflicted was not great, and Duncan and Llewellyn, who had got into similar trouble before, cared very little for it, aad went out laughing to tell the number of swishes they had received, to a little crowd of boys who were lingering outside the library door. But not so Eric. It was the first flogging, and he felt it deeply. To his proud spirit the disgrace was intolerable. At that moment he hated Dr. Bowlands, he hated Mr. Gordon, he hated his schoolfellows, he hated everybody. He had been flogged; the thought haunted him; he, Eric Williams, had been forced to receive this most degrading corporal punishment. He pushed fiercely through the knot of boys, and strode as quick as he could along the play-ground, angry and impenitent	.
At the gate Bussell met him. Eric felt the meeting inopportune; he was ashamed to meet his friend, ashamed to speak to him, envious of him, and jealous of his better reputation. He wanted to pass him by without notice, but Bussell would not suffer this. He came np to him and took his arm affectionately. The slightest allusion to his late disgrace would have made Eric flame out into a passion; but Bussell was too kind to allude to it then. He talked as if uothing had happened, and tried to turn his friend’s thoughts to more pleasant subjects. Eric appreciated his kindness, but he was still sullen and fretful, and it was not until they parted that his better feelings won the day. But when Bussell said to him, “Good-bye, Enc, and don’t be down in the mouth,” it was too much for him, and seizing Edwin’s hand, he wrung it hard, and exclaimed impetuously:
“Dear good Edwin! how I wish I was like you. If all my friends were like you, I should never get into these rows.”
“Nay, Eric,’.’ ssiid Bussell, “it’s I who ought to envy you; you are no end cleverer and stronger^ and you can’t think how glad I am that we’ are friends.”
They parted by Sir. Williams’ door, and Bussel walked home sad and thoughtful; but Eric barel answering his brother’s greeting, rushed up to h room, and, flinging himself on the bed, broode alone over the remembrance of his disgrace; Still nursing a fierce resentment, he felt something har at his heart, and, as he prayed neither for help no forgiveness, it was pride and rebellion, not penitence, that made him miserable.
[TO BE COXTIXIJED.]
say anything to Dr. Bowlands about it, if I were you.”
Eric took the advice, and, full of mortification, went home. He gave his father a true and manly account of the whole occurrence, and that afternoon Mr. Williams wrote a note of apology and explanation to Mr. Gordon. Next time the form went up, Mr. Gordon said, in his most freezing tone, “ Williams, at present I shall take no further notice of your offence beyond including you in the extra lesson every half-holiday.”
From that day forward Eric felt that he was marked and suspected, and the feeling worked on him with the worst effects. He grew more careless in work, and more trifling and indifferent in manner. Several boys now beat him whom he had easily surpassed before, and his energies were for a time entirely directed to keeping that supremacy in the games which he had won by his activity and strength.
It was a Sunday afternoon, toward the end of the summer term, the boys were sauntering about in the green play-ground, or lying on the banks reading and chatting. Eric was with a little knot of his chief friends, enjoying the sea-breeze as they sat on the grass. At last the bell of the school chapel began to ring, and they went in to the afternoon service. Eric usually sat with Duncan and Llewellyn, immediately behind the benches allotted to chance visitors. The bench in front of them happened on this afternoon to be occupied by some rather odd people, viz., an old man with long white hair, and two ladies remarkably stout, who were dressed with much juvenility, although past middle age. Their appearance immediately attracted notice, and no sooner had they taken their seats than Duncan and Llewellyn began to titter. The ladies’ bonnets, which were of white, trimmed with long green leaves and flowers, just peered over the top of the boys’ pew, and excited much amusement; particularly when Duncan, in his irresistible sense of the ludicrous, began to adorn them with little bits of paper. But Eric had not yet learnt to disregard the solemnity of the place, and the sacred act in which they were engaged. He tried to look away, and attend to the service, and for a time he partially succeeded, although, seated as he was between the two triflers, who were perpetually telegraphing to each other their jokes, he found it a difficult task, and secretly he began to be much tickled.
At last the sermon commenced, and Llewellyn, who had imprisoned a grasshopper in a paper cage, suddenly let it hop out. The first hop took it to the top of the pew; the second perched it on the shoulder of the stoutest lady. Duncan and Llewellyn tittered louder, and even Eric could not resist a smile. But when the lady feeling some irritation on her shoulder, raised her hand, and the grasshopper took a frightened leap into the centre of the green foliage which enwreathed her bonnet, none of the three could stand it, and they burst into fits of laughter which they tried in vain to conceal by bending down their heads and cramming their fists into their mouths. Eric, having once given way, enjoyed the joke uncontrollably, and the lady made matters worse by her uneasy attempts to dislodge the unknown intruder, and discover the cause of the tittering, which she could not help hearing. At last all three began to laugh so violently that several heads were turned in their direction, and Dr. Bowlands’ stem eye caught sight of their levity. He stopped short in his sermon, and for one instant transfixed them with his indignant glance. Quiet was instantly restored, and alarm reduced them to the most perfect order, although the grasshopper still sat imperturbable among the artificial flowers. Meanwhile the stout lady had discovered that for some unknown reason she had been causing considerable amusement, and attributing it to intentional ridicule, looked around,
A lawyer once thought he could entrap the nowned clergyman and satirist, Swift, by proposin to him the following: “If the devil and a clerg man were to go to law, who would win the suit ?" “Without doubt, the devil,” answered Swift; “for he has all the lawyers on his side;”	>
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Published, every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editors Scho-Xastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
One year...................................  $2	00
tingle copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Scholastic for 1871-72.
There are some who think that we have gone to too great an expense in doubling the times we issue the Notre Dame Scholastic—for, of course, we double our outlay, and mayhap we may not double the number of our subscribers. It is even sai<) that those who, when receiving news only once a fortnight from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, expressed a desire to hear oftener, would now be perfectly satiated, and would not care about hearing so often from those two Institutions now that thiir desires are accomplished. And, moreover, those ardently interested friends predict that before ten months of the year have swung around the circle, the Scholastic will prove a failure, and that we Editors must knuckle down as a nou-success and confess that the Scholastic is a fiasco.
As for our additional expenses we admit the corn; but by hook or by crook, neither the papermill nor our workmen shall suffer. As to doubling or trebling the number of our subscribers, we depend, 1st. On the good sense and good will of the parents of our Students, all of whom we count upon as regular subscribers. 2d. Upon the Students of the College, nearly all of whom take the paper, and one hundred of whom are already regular subscribers. We advise those who are not regular subscribers to subscribe at once, and have all the back numbers, for, in the first place, we do not stereotype the numbers, and secondly, we will not republish any back numbers. We know that many who would give treble the original price of the paper to have a regular file of the Scholastic, cannot now-complete the volumes. Wherefore we give our private opinion that those who are not regular subscribers and who do not preserve the Scholastic for binding will find themselves at the end of the year in a state of grievous disappointment. 3d. We depend for the increase of our subscription list on the interest which our old students take in the affairs of Notre Dame. Many of them have been subscribers for years, and have sent in their one dollar or two dollars without fail, knowing and acknowledging that what is a little sum to each of them, proves a large sum to us in the aggregate. We return our thanks to the old students of the College, and would willingly do so to the pupils of the Academy, but, with a few exceptions for the old ones and with none for the new, we cannot claim them as subscribers to the Scholastic.
It is an easy matter to find fault with Editors of the Scholastic, and for officers and professors, with a few notable exceptions for the latter, and students and friends, to look on and see how the Editors will get through the year, without any support in good words, but with many of disparagement, and without wiiting a line of contribution to the colums of the paper—columns which they read every week gratis. Such patronage we like when we are in proper trim, with good health, and healthy nerves. But at a time when ague is in the bones a :d when we shake, not from fear of failure, or from adverse criticism, we could do with a little less of it.
As for subscribers being sated with receivingnews every week from old Notre Dame, and preferring to have only bi-monthly reports from the place where they have spent the happiest as well as the most useful years of their life, we do not see it, and the increase of the number of subscribers shows that it caunot be seen. We admit, however, that our old students could get us many more subscribers than we now have.
As for the Notbe Dame Scholastic proving a failure before ten months, all we have to say is: nous nerrons. Notre Dame has failed in nothing of importance yet, and the Scholastic is not going to flunk out the first.
Sow to Study.
Serenely my heart took the hue of the hour, Its passions were sleeping, were mute as the dead, And the spirit becalm’d, but remembered tbeir power As the billows the force of the gale that was fled 1
—Moore.
In a previous number of the Scholastic we made some suggestions in regard to what the Student should do before entering College. Supposing, therefore, that he has profited by what we then said, and determined upon the particular studies most advantageous for him according to the particular avocation in life for which he proposes to fit himself, we now purpose to give him the benefit of our experience in regard to the manner in which he should study.
It is a well-known fact that, so far as the physical system is concerned, a man can endure but a certain amount of labor in a given time, and that, after such labor, rest is necessary to restore the body to its natural vigor and prepare it for new exertion. If a man engage in active exercise for an hour or two, his physical powers become more or less exhausted according to the greater or less violence of the exercise, and should he continue such exercise beyond the point of weariness, he cannot fail to do himself an injury which will temporarily, or perhaps permanently, diminish his capacity for exertion, and thus render him less capable of benefiting himself or others.
It is also a fact that ol two men’, possessing equal strength, who do an equal amount of work in a given time, the one who performs his work in a hurried and excited manner will be much more fatigued and, consequently, will require more rest to re-establish his natural vigor, than the other who performs his work in a quiet and deliberate manner, And, moreover, the latter will, as a general thing, do his work better than the former.
' Now, the same laws which govern the body, in respect to labor and rest, govern also the mind in its present state of union with the body; for we must remember that the mind, in man’s present state of existence, operates through the brain, which is a part of the physical system. The mind itself never becomes weary or exhausted, but the brain, the instrument of our mental operations, does become fatigued when vigorously employed for a length of time, just as the muscles of the body become fatigued after a certain amount of exercise, and it requires rest to restore its tone and vigor, just as much as do the muscles, under similar circumstances, and any effort to use the brain beyond its natural power of endurance is a serious detriment, often inducing permanent injuiy.
To know, then, that method of study by which the greatest amount of labor can be performed with the least fatigue to the brain, is of the greatest importance to the Student, and the following hints, we are satisfied, will place him in possession of that knowledge.
We said, in speaking of the effects of physical exercise upon the body, that he who should perform a certain amount of labor in a hurried and excited manner, would be more fatigued and, con
sequently, require more rest afterwards than another of equal strength who should perform the same work calmly and deliberately.. So it is, also, in the intellectual order. The Student who undertakes to master a certain amount of science in a given time, and enters upon his work in an excited and anxious manner, or with that feverish sort of fear that he will not be able to accomplish his task in the allotted time, wearies his brain more by such anxiety than by the study actually required; the consequence of which is that he afterwards requires more rest to restore the vigor of his brain, and if he does not take that rest—(and Students of this class seldom do)—he goes on gradually but surely exhausting the strength of his brain and, consequently, the vigor of his mind, till he is finally obliged to abandon study for weeks or months, perhaps for years, simply because he can no longer apply his mind to serious work, and, in many cases, also because his physical health has been broken down by the constant unnatural strain upon the mind.
On the other hand, the Student who enters upon his work calmly, determined to master, within the allotted time, as much of the subject as he can with a reasonable degree of industry, will, in all probability, do his work better, and certainly will fatigue his brain less, require less time to recover the force or strength expended, feel far more happy and contented and, what is of the utmost importance, preserve his health. Even though the quiet Student should, on this or that particular occasion, show to less advantage in the class-room (which is not very likely) he will, nevertheless, at the close of each year, have acquired a greater amount of actual information than the anxious Student, and return home with his strength and spirits but slightly, if at all, diminished, while the other will require the entire time of vacation to nurse his shattered health, and prepare himself for another term of study, thus losing in part, at least, the enjoyments of home, which naturally should be his after ten months absence.
But there is another point to which the Student should attend particularly: namely, a proper degree of physical exercise. The brain being a part of the physical organization, its health aud vigor depend, in a great measure, upon the health of the body, and the latter depends mainly, after healthful nourishment, upon a due proportion of physical exercise. It is to secure to the Student an opportunity for this necessary exercise that in all Schools and Colleges, certain hours of each day and, in many of them, an entire day in each week, is set apart for play and recreation, and the Student, who has his own welfare at heart, will be as careful to profit by these recreations as he is to use the hours of study diligently, knowing that for every hour of study time which he gains by neglecting the requisite physical exercise, he will sooner or later be obliged to pay a severe penalty, and not unlikely meet with failure in the end.
It is really painful to those who know what the consequences inevitably must be, to see Students who, in spite of all advice, insist upon spending their hours of recreation in study, to the detriment of mind and body.
We sincerely trust that our young readers will give the matter serious consideration, and act upon the suggestions which we have given.
“ Work while you work, play while you play;
This is the way to be happy and gay !”
And do both at proper times and with due moderation.
We were much gratified to greet our old friend Orville, who paid us a visit in our. sanctum. We accepted his kind invitation, and took a trip to Elkhart, of which we shall soon say something more.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
Among the many matters that interest the old Students as well as the new ones, and the friends generally of Notre Dame and St Mary’s, there is no subject that can interest them more than the doings of Very Rev. Father Sorin, the SuperiorGeneral of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, the one who laid the foundation of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, and who not only was mainly instrumental in building the material edifices which now lift their heads up in proud consciousness of the number of youth who prosper under their roof-trees, but who also gave that impulse which even yet sustains the prestige of the two institutions, and which is felt in the studies and discipline of the College and Academy.
As noted by the Scholastic at the various dates, Very Rev. Father General went to France in July, where his presence was required by the sad state to which the country was reduced by the vigorous efforts of Communists, the shilly shally-ing of Thiers, and the absence of all leading men who were imbued with principles that were calculated to draw la belle France from the abyss of disgrace and misfortune into which she has fallen, and in which she will remain until the man shall present himself, or be called upon, who is able to restore her to her former glory, as the first Christian nation ahd eldest daughter of the Church.
During his short stay in France he was by no mea.is discouraged by the effect of the persecutions which communistically disposed individuals, some in high station, were waging against the Colleges and Schools of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in France and Algeria, but, on the contrary, he was encouraged by the fact that the zeal and fervor of the members of the order, of which he has now the control, was augmented, and that, as is the case with the Church at large, the more violent the persecutions, the more devoted the members, and the more good done.
He remained for the annual Spiritual Retreat, and visited the Novitiate, where he met that Father in Israel, Father Chappe, and the enterprising man, Father Martinet, whom we hope to see soon on this side of the ocean, though we would rather go on the other side to see him. Having arranged matters to his own satisfaction with Very Rev. Father Drouelle, the Provincial of France, he hastened to return to the home of his adoption, where all his childem were anxiously awaiting him, and arrived at Notre Dame as announced in a previous number of the Scholastic.
We are by no means given to sentimentality, nor are we a poet, consequently we leave to others to record the arrival and reception of Father General at Notre Dame. We simply assert that all, from the Editors of the Scholastic down to the smallest Minim, felt that satisfaction and soul-contented security that children feci when their Father returns after an absence of days.
On his return he of course had his many duties as General to fulfill, and meddled not a whit directly in the march of matters in Notre Dame, leaving the conduct of the College in the hands of. those to whom he had confided it.	.
Such being the ease, we were most agreeably taken when we received intimation that he would make a short trip with us to Elkhart.
We record it for future generations, and as a matter of reflection to those degenerate sons of Notre Dame who cannot go beyond the College grounds without the aid of a horse, that no horses and carriage forthcoming—all the horses being previously engaged—Father General walked into South Bend with us. who do it habitually, and would have arrived at the station in time for the train, had he not met the Honorable, the Vice-President of the United States—who did not know us—and who along with Mr. Bonney, whom we afterwards met, detained him and us
just the number of minutes that would have enabled him to reach the train from the corner of the street where we had the satisfaction of seeing the train going out “with himself and ourselves left behind.”
Having missed the first train, we record as matter of history, to be referred to in the future, that we stopped at Rev. Father Spillard’s, who was out upon a sick call, and spent some agreeable minutes with “ Mariaphilos,” who was engaged on an important work which we shall soon announce to the public.	'
We cannot refrain from thanking “ Mariaphilos ” for his splendid contributions to Ave Maria—in whose success we are somewhat interested—and expressing our hope that he will wield his powerful pen to contribute to the columns of the Scholastic.
Need we go farther, and describe our pleasant visit to Elkhart? On our own account we shall make a mem. that we met our agreeable friend and perfect exemplar of a Conductor, Major Palmer; but we cannot to-day give a full account of our visit to that promising city.
We need merely say, at present, that our visit was rendered most agreeable by our student-friend, Chamberlain; and that Mrs. Chamberlain and Madame Chamberlain, the mother of our host, and his sister gave us a most hospitable reception, though we had missed the first train and arrived late by the second; and that we saw the present, and foresaw the future of the city of Elkhart.
Of Elkhart, anon.
E. B. K. N. H. G. O. K.
Prof. T. E. Howard began the Course of Modern History last Saturday.
The Professor of Natural Sciences, Rev. C. Carrier, began his course of lessons last week.
Why are the Professors like locomotives? Because the Students must look out for them when the bell rings.
A beginning class of German was commenced during this week and placed under the direction of Brother Maurice.
An additional train going east in the morning, and another going west in the evening, have been put on the M. S. & L. S. R.R.
Reports from Literary and Musical Societies should be submitted to the Prefect of Studies, previously to their being published.
The studies are now vigorously prosecuted in all the classes, and excellent notes are anticipated at the first reading of class notes.
The Orchestra has several pieces on its boards and will, no doubt, claim a good share in the entertainment on the evening of the 13th.
The Music Department will be immediately organized into regular grades or classes, which will indicate the proficiency of the Students.
The bulletins, which are usually sent home every month, will be deferred a few weeks, so as to reach home by the middle of October. It will give an opportunity to the Professors to know their pupils better, and will also afford the Students sufficient time to prove themselves.
The Thespians are actively preparing (during their leisure hours) for the festival of the 13th. The Philharmonics are likewise engaged in rehearsing their choruses, etc. The Brass Band, which was lately reorganized, intends to regale our ears on the same occasion. It has a larger force than ever, and will, no doubt, prove itself the largest and best band Notre Dame ever had. Under Rev. Mr. Lilly’s care it cannot fail to prosper.
Tables of Honor. -
SENIOR DEP’T.
September 29.—T. Murphy, T. Badeaux, M. Carr, J. Ireland, E. Graves, M. Keeley, E. Barry, D. Gahan, J. Darmody, H. Diener.
junior dep’t.
September 29.—W. Quinlan, J. Kilcoin, G. Gross, C. Hutchings, G. McMahon, F. ’Phelan, H. Quan, G. Ready, J. Pumphrey, S. Ashton, H. Hunt
-	D. A C., Sic..
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Oct. 1st—Eddie De Groot, A McIntosh, C.' Faxon, H. Faxon, F. Huck.
Additional Entrances for 1871-72.
Edgar Woolman,	Terre Coupee, Indiana.
John L. Bumside,	Belvidere, Rlinois.
William H. Dee,	Chicago, Illinois. ’
Thomas P. White,	Versailes, Kentucky.
Virgil McKinnon,	Chicago, Rlinois.
J. Culver,	Seymour, Indiana.
James Spillard,	Elgin, Rlinois.
Alfred W. Filson,	Grand Rapids, Mich.
W. Moran,	Fort Wayne, Indiana.
R. Curran,	Buchanan, Michigan.
Vicente Baca,	Las Vegas, New Mexico.
D. J. Hogan,	Chicago, Rlinois.
J. D. Hogan,	Chicago, Illinois.
J. J. McFarland,	Boonsboro, Iowa.
John McCall,	Detroit, Michigan.
Honorable Mentions.
Classical Course.
’	SENIORS.
T. Ireland, M. Keeley, M. Mahony, J. McHugh, M. Carr, J. Shannahan.
«j uiniORS.
' J. McGlynn, M. Foote.	•
SOPHOMORE.
J. P. White.
FRESHMEN.
W. Clarke, P. Fitzpatrick, C. Gamache, T. L. Watson, C. Dodge.	-
Scientific Course.
seniors.
N. Mitchell, T. O’Mahony.
SOPHOMORES.
H. Coffee, T. Dundon, G. Darr, P. O’Connell, S. Dum, W. Dum.
■ FRESHMEN. .
C. Hanna, F. P. Leffingwell, T. J. Murphy, W. Breen, N. S. Kelly.
Commercial Course.
Second Year—J. A Ireland, L. Marshall, R. Lange, E. Sweeney, C. Butler, J. Crammey, D. F. Gahan, J. Nash, E. Newton, J. Rumely, B. Roberts, J. Wuest, J. H. Ward.
First Year—E. M. Barry, R. Hunt, C. Hodgson, T. A Philips, C. A Parsons, R. Staley, J. D. Smarr, F. Whitney, S. Ashton, F. Eagan, W. Kelly, F. Phalon, J. Darmody.
Preparatory Course.
Third Year—J.'Hogan, H. Hubbard, J. Rourke, J. Walsh, L. Roth, E. Shea, S. Sullivan, F. Arantz, A Dickerhoff, L. Hibben, J. Kilcoin.
Second Year—T. Badeaux, J. Marks, W. Myers, J. Devine, F. Ready, J. A Roberts, E. Roberts, R. Redmond, F. Williams, H. Beckman, F. Devoto, J. Caren, W. Emmons, J. E. Davis, H. Hackett, M. McCormack, J. Hoffman, E. Alwill, E. Howland, D. O'Connell, H. A Shephard, P. Jacobs, W. Weldon, A Klein, F. Clarke, J. Kaufman, J. McGin-niss.	.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
First Year—.1. Bell, F. Bauer, J. Cotnar, B. E. Blackman, J. Doud, W. Burns, B. Drake, J. Dore, E. Graves, J. Dance, F, P. Hamilton, H. Enneking, T. Hughes, E. Edwards, C. Harvey, E. Foster, T. Juddy, G. Gross, J. Kenney, T. Gegan, J. Karst, E. Gault, P. Logue, A C. Miller, P. Hennessey, W. Olhen, D. Jocquel, T. O’Neil, J. Juif, J. L. Noonan, C. W. Karst, G. W. Page, F. G. Ken-nyon, A Paguin, E. Milbum, E. Poe, E. Mul-haney, IV. Quinlan, J. D. McIntyre, W. Quan, F. Moore, S. Bust, E. Marshall, A Schmidt, W. Murphy, F. Sage, L. Munn, W. Toll, W. Morgan, O-Tong, E. Schuster, J. F. Wernert, E. Asher.
Penmanship.
The classes of Penmanship have made a very satisfactory progress under Brother Camillus’ teaching. The best specimens presented at the end of September were those of Messrs. E. M. Newton, L. Hayes, P. Bielly, L. Hibben, B. Roberts, F. Arautz, F. McDonald, J. Taylor, J. E. Pumphrey, J. Rumely, G. Crummey, M McCormack, F. Devoto, L. McOsker, J. Quill, J. Kilcoini T. O’Neill, W. Breen, EL Beckman, E. Alwill, F. Beady, O. Waterman, W. Fletcher, W. H. Smith, L. Marshall, J. Bowen, J. Stinson, P. E. Cochrane, J. A Boberts, E. Graves, H. Sehnelker, J. L. Noonan, W. C. Fiedeldy, J. Comar, E. Sweeney, F. McOsker, W. Quinlan, EL L. Dehner, J. McGlynn, T. J. Murphy, E. J. Nugent
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
First Class—E. De Groot, E. Baymond, A L. McIntosh, M. Fambaker.
Second Class—BL Faxon, A. Morton, F. Huck, J. Gleeson. _	..
Third Class—A. Keenan, J. Porter, C. Elison, G. Voelker, B. Keenan, E. Dasher. •
New Publication.
The Gband Demonstration in Baltimore and Washington, D. C., in honor of the twenty-fifth Anniversary of the Election of Pius IX to the Chair of St. Peter, June 17, 18, and 19, 1871. Baltimore: Murphy & Co., Publishers. New York: Catholic Publication Society.
- This pamphlet, of 82 pages, contains, besides the report of the proceedings on the occasion, much valuable information embodied in the introduction, and more diffusely in the speeches and addresses given during the celebration. We would recommend all to secure a copy of this valuable document.
A Chicago Boy Abroad.
In June, 1866, John F. Carlin, a native of Chicago, and son of Philip Carlin, an old resident, graduated with unusual honors at Notre Dame University, Indiana, being at the time only 17 years of age. He shortly after entered Bush Medical College, and for two years was an industrious student. In 1868 he entered the Medical Department of Dublin University, where he has been ever since prosecuting his studies with honorable distinction. When the war between France and Prussia broke out he, with several professors and students, joined the ambulance corps, he ranking as an assistant surgeon, and was engaged to the very last doing medical and surgical service upon the various fields and in hospitals. Being a thorough German scholar, Dr. Carlin was, during a large part of the service, in charge of the Prussian wounded, performing his his labor of humanity faithfully and well. Be-centiy, the French Government sent a deputation to Dublin University, to make special acknowledgements to the medical gentleman for their disinterested service, and among these upon whom was bestowed the decoration of a bronze cross was the Chicago boy, Dr. John F. Carlin. A letter
received from Dublin intimates that, in consideration of his espescial service to the Prussian wounded, the Prussian Government will probably supplement the French decoration by bestowing upon him the Iron Cross of Prussia. Dr. Carlin is but 22 years of age, and, in addition to a highly finished education, including lingual accomplishments, he has had five years’ instruction in medicine and surgeiy—two years in Chicago, and three in Europe, the latter including eight months in the camps and hospitals of the French and Prussian armies.—Chicago Tribune.
Astronomy.
A SYNOPSIS OF ITS HISTORY.
Astronomy is that branch of natural philosophy which treats of the heavenly bodies, their motions, periods, eclipses, magnitudes, distances and other phenomena. The determination of their magnitudes, distances, and the orbits they describe, is called plane, or pure astronomy; and the investigation of the causes of their motions, physical astronomy. The former is distinguished from observations on their magnitudes and motions; and the latter from analogy, by applying those principles and laws of motion, by which bodies on and near the earth are governed, to the other bodies in the system.
The science of astronomy is the most ancient of all others. The Chinese have traditions and records extending back to the days of Noah, whom they claim as their first emperor, under the name of Fo-hi. When Alexander the Great, after the battle of Bela, entered Babylon, 330 years before Christ, he found records on brick extending back 1903 years, and which must have been commenced 115 years after the flood. Father Gauble, an ancient missionary in China, states that he found records extending back to at least 120 years before Christ, in which were determined the signs and constellations of the Zodiac, the situations of the of the fixed stars with respect to the equinoctial and solstitial points, and obliquity of the ecliptic, the length of the solar year, and the methods of observing meridian altitudes of the sun.
Thales, the Melisian, should be considered the founder of astronomy among the Greeks. He was bom about 640 years before Christ. He flourished about 600 years before Christ; he travelled in Egypt, and was the first who measured the height of the Pyramids by the shadow. He divided the celestial sphere into fire zones; he predicted an eclipse about a certain time, on the day a great battle was fought between the Meads and Lydians. An eclipse did take place; the Meads expected it, while the Lydians were struck with terror and fled. The precise date of this eclipse has been counted back with great care by Mr. F. Bailly, and found to be September 10th, 610 years before Christ. This event is of much importance as a starting point in chronology.
Thales taught that the sun was fire; that the stars shone by their own light; that the moon reflected the light of the sun; that the earth was spherical; and placed in the centre of the universe; and that the year consisted of 365 days.
Pythagoras flourished about 540 years before Christ—he was a Greek Philosopher. He taught that the universe was composed of four elements; that it had the sun in the centre; that the earth was round; that we had antipodes; that the moon reflected the rays of the sun; that the stars were worlds; that the moon was inhabited like the earth; that the planets were wandering stars; the milky way he describes as a pathway paved with small stars. He is said to have exhibited the oblique course of the sun in the ecliptic and tropical circles, by means of an artificial sphere; and he
first taught that the planet Venus was both the morning and evening star.
About 440 B. C., Philolaus, a Pythagorian, asserted the annual motion of the earth around the sun; and soon after Hicetas, a Syracusian, taught its diurnal motion on its own axis. About this time, Meton of Athens took an exact observation of the summer solstice, which is the oldest we have, 432 years before Christ, except some doubtful ones by the Chinese.
After Meton, the next astronomer we meet with of great reputation is Eudoxus, who flourished 370 years before Christ. He was a contemporary with Aristotle, though considerably older, and is greatly celebrated for his skill in the science. He is said to be the first to apply geometry to astronomy, and is supposed to have invented many of the propositions attributed to Euclid. He obtained his knowledge from the priests in Egypt, after which he taught in Asia and Italy. Seneca tells us that he brought the knowledge of astronomy from Egypt to Greece. He taught that the diameter of the sun was nine times that of the moon. He was also acquainted with the method of drawing a sun-dial.
About 339, B. C., Callipus devoted himself to the study of the heavenly bodies—he is mentioned by Aristotle. It was about this time that the Greeks became acquainted with the Pythagorian system, and with the opinions of the ancient druids concerning astronomy.
The most ancient writings extant on this science are those of Antolycus. He wrote two books— one on “ The Sphere which moves," and the other on “ The Bising and Setting of the Stars.” This was about 300 years before Christ, and is very valuable as being the first instance in which these ancient sages gave their opinions to the world in the form of a regular treatise.
Contemporary with Antolycus, was Euclid, whose elements of Geometry, after so many ages, still maintain their prominence, and in which we find all the propostions that are necessary for establishing every useful theorem in trigonometry; yet it is clearly evident that no ideas were yet conceived of the latter science. Neither Euclid nor Archimedes, great as were their skill and talents in geometry, had any idea of estimating the measure of any angle by the arc which the two lines forming it intercepted. Nor does it appear that they knew of any instrument whatever for taking angles, a very convincing proof of which appears in the process adopted by the latter justly celebrated philosopher in order to determine the apparent diameter of the sun.
Hipparchus was called the father of true astronomy; he flourished about 135, B. C. He made many and great discoveries in the science. One of his first cares was to rectify the length of the year, which before his time was made to consist of 365 days and six hours. By comparing one of his own observations at the summer solstice with a similar observation made one hunderd and forty-five years before by Aristarcus, he shortened the year about seven minutes, makiug it consist of 365 days, 5 hours, 53 minutes, which, however, was not sufficient; but the cause of the error is said to have rested with Aristarcus, and not with Hippar-cus; for the observations of the latter, compare c with modem times, give 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes 49J4 seconds, a result which exceeds the troth very little more than a second.
As an observer, he rendered great service to astronomy, having made muck more numerous observations than his predecessors, and upon far more accurate principles. He employed the transit of the stars over the meridian at night to find the hour, and invented the planesphere or means of representing the concave sphere of the stars on a plane, and thence deduced the solution of problems in spherical astronomy. To him we owe the happy idea of marking the position of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1
k
towns and cities, as we do those of the stars, by circles drawn through the piles perpendicular to the equator, that is by latitudes; and by circles parallel to the equator, corresponding to our longitude. Another most important work of Hipparchus was his formation of a catalogue of stars. The appearance of a new star in his time caused him to form the grand project of enabling future astronomers to ascertain whether the general picture of the heavens were always the same. This he aimed to effect by attempting the actual enumeration of the stars. He prepared and arranged an extensive catalogue of the fixed stars, which subsequently served as a basis of that of Ptolemy. So great indeed is the merit of this great astronomer, that Pliny speaks of him in terms of the highest admiration.
We meet with but few famous names from the time of Hipparchus, about 135 or 125 years B. C., to the time of Ptolemy, who was borne in the year 70 of our era. Still there are some who distinguished themselves, and whose names were preserved through a space of little less than two thousand years—such as Cleomcdas, who wrote a book entitled, “ Introduction to the Phenomena;” he lived in the time of Augustus. Also Manlius, Strabo, Posidonius, and Cicero, who lived a half century later.	J. F.
[to be continued.] p .
/ St. Aloysius’ Philoclemic Society.
Eds. Scholastic : A meeting of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Society, for the purpose of reorganization, was held intheroom of the Association, on Tuesday evening, September 2Gth. In the absence of the president, Air. M. J. Moriarty was elected chairman by acclamation. Rev. Father Carrier was elected Director, and a committee was then appointed to wait on the Rev. gentleman, to request him to accept the directorship of the Association, which he very kindly consented to do, much to the satisfaction of the Society.
Prof. A. J. Stace was elected President, and a committee appointed to notify him; the Professor kindly accepted the position in which he was placed. Several new members were then proposed and unamimously elected. After which the election of officers took place, resulting as_ follows:
Director—Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C. President—Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M.
__Vice-President—Marcus. J. Morjarty.
Recording Secretary—P. Fitzpatrick. Corresponding Secretary—P. J. O’Connell. Treasurer—T. J. Dundon.
Librarian—P. O’Meara.
Assistant Librarian—D. Maloney.
First Critic—M. Carr.
Second Critic—C. W. White.
•	.	1 C. Gamache,
Censors	j H Dehner.
The Association has at present a large number of members and possesses every facility for literary culture and improvement. P. J. O’Connell,
Cor. See.
the more beneficial influence were to be ascribed to science or literature. It was at the Philodemic meeting that they acquired that eloquence and forensic acumen which now distinguishes them in active life.
Were we to attempt to furnish forth the list of names that grace the books of this Association, the catalogue would be too long for the pages of the Scholastic ; nor would we select the more prominent without serious doubts as to where we ought to draw the line. The old records are an archaeological treasure to the college, and contain a great part of its intellectual history.
The twenty-second year of the Association opens with a firm determination on the part of the present members to do their best to keep up the old Philodemic fame. They feel that a heavy responsibility rests upon them, but they do not shrink from it as a burden; they rather accept it as an honor, encouraged and reassured by the great names of their predecessors, and confiding in the continued protection of St Aloysius, their holy patron.	S.
Attained, its Majority.
Philharmonic Society. x\
Undoubtedly many old Students of Notre Dame will be agreeably surprised to learn, through this brief report, that the Philharmonics of 1867-68 have revived from their lethargy, to make their sonorous notes once more resound through the halls of Notre Dame. As the Students of the above years are aware, the Philharmonics always took a prominent part in the Exhibitions, and many were the soirees given in the large parlor by those enterprising young gentlemen.
For the purpose of giving encouragement to those Students endowed with average vocal powers, a meeting was held by several vocalists on the evening of the 28th ult. The object of the meeting was briefly explained by Mr. M. J. Moriarty, after which took place the election of officers, resulting as follows:
Director—Rev. A Lemonnier.
Musical Director—Prof. Jules Regniers.
President—Marcus J. Moriarty FVtce-President—George XI Riopelle. X f Secretary—Robert Staley.	W
Treasurer—George W. Darr.	11
The election of officers terminating, it was moved that the President appoint a Committee for the purpose of drawing up a Constitution and By-laws; and also moved that the President reserve for himself the office of Chairman of said Committee. This motion was unanimously agreed upon, and the President appointed the following-named to draw up the same: M. J. Moriarty, Chairman; G. W. Darr, and your correspondent.
Notre Dame proffers ample encouragement to those Associations that give hopes of a beneficial result. We have our Religious, Literary, Scientific, and Dramatic Associations. We have our vocal classes, but their general routine of duties is not governed by those rules that are requisite for the genial fellowship, encouragement, and proper decorum of its members, and which are found in a regular Association. An Association is a class of geniality, valuable not as an end, but as a
Musical
Reorganization of the Notre Daww Cornet Band.
At last—and no doubt to the joy of onr many friends who, for the last few weeks, have looked, as they thought, in vain for our appearance—we again appear to take our station in the list of Musical Societies with which Notre Dame has for many years been teeming. It needs no rhetorical display to laud the abilities of the Band, as every one who has ever been presept at any of the Exhibitions given in Washington Hall must acknowledge that the Band proved a sine qua non to their success.
At a meeting held on September 28th, for the purpose of reorganization, the following officers were elected:
Leader and Director—Rev. E. Lilly, S.S.C.
President—Bro. Camillus, S.S.C.' Vice-President—George L. Riopelle.
Secretary—N. S. Mitchell.
1 Thomas E. Decbant
Censors j	H SmJth
We have now fourteen members, and if any wish to join let them give their names to the Secretary, who will present them in due form before the Society for membership. Secretary.
Base-Ball
Defeat of the Champions.
A very interesting game of Base-Ball was played on Wednesday afternoon, Sept 27th, between two leading clubs of the University, the “ Star of the East” and “Star of the West,” being a new trial for the championship, which, it will be remembered, remained with the Star of West (Junior) at the close of last session. The following is the score of the game:
STAR OF THE EAST.
Roberts, c...... Leffingwell, c. f.. Badeaux, 1st b... Walsh, p....... Dannody, 2d b.. Staley, r. f.... Smar, s. s...... Clarke, 3d b....
Dechant, 1. f....
Total,
o.
4
2
2
3 4
4
4
STAR OF THE WEST.
O.
4
2 3
3
3 0
21
Dnm, s. s... McOsker, r. f. Nash, c. f..... Berdell, 1st b. Dodge, 1. f.... Gault, 3db.... Taylor, c.... Carsons, p..... Reilly, 2db...
Total,
3 3
4 5
3 3
3
2 2 0 0 2 1
2
3 3
27
14
Umpire—Mr. J. Rourke.
Scorer—Mr. R. Staley.
Called Balls—S. E., 32; S. W., 45. ’
Passed Balls—S. E., 10; S. W., 10.
Yours truly,
Muffin.
The second game for championship came oft Wednesday, Oct 4th on the Star of the East grounds. The Champions came out victorious, through excellent playing on their side. A full account of the game will be published in the next No. of the Scholastic. Score—Star of the East, 24; Star of the West, 33. Bro. Aloysius had the pie ready after the game.
On the 17th of last September the Philodemic Association completed the twenty-first year of its age.
Born when the University itself was in its infancy, it contains within its archives, the names of all—or nearly all—whose subsequent career has reflected distinguished honor on their Alma Mater. On the pages of its early records we find the names of divines and legislators, whose minds, now the oracles of millions of their fellow-creatures, were then exercised in deciding the respective merits of Constantine and Charlemangc; or debating whether
means. As a general thing the members of the Philharmonic Association are Students of the Vocal Classes, and, consequently, the Society is composed of no mean degree of talent.
With the hope that the Association may receive that encouragement which their energetic efforts are entitled to, and that their “warblings” may be heard iu our classic halls, we wish them harmony and prosperity. Robert Staley, |	Secretary.
How much money is thera in the moon ’ One dollar only, for it has four quarters.
Young Women.—The character of a community depends much upon young women. If the latter are cultivated, intelligent, accomplished, the young men will feel the requirement that they themselves should be upright and gentlemanly and refined; but if their female friends are frivolous and silly, the young men will be dissipated and worthless. But remember, always, that a sister is the best guardian of a brother’s integrity. She is the surest inculcator of faith in female purity. As a daughter, she is the true light of home. The pride of the father often centres in his sons, but the affection is expended on his daughter. She should therefore be the sun and centre of it alh	..
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary's Academy, ) October 4,1871. J
All the Religious and Literary Societies at St Mary’s Academy were reorganized during the second week of the term. The happy effect of these organizations is apparent to alh The pupils are thereby taught how to conduct themselves in a business-like manner, with order and mutual respect A laudable emulation and good-natured rivalry is encouraged in the Literary Societies, while the pious Confraternities, by their rules and discipline, promote among the members that steady and constant piety so edifying to all. We give below the result of the elections in the different Societies.
Respectfully, Stylus.
Living Rosary Society.
This Society, composed of the Catholic ladies and pupils now at St. Mary’s, held its annual meeting on Sunday, the Feast of the Rosary; Very Rev. Father General presided. The following officers were appointed:
Directress—Sister M. Compassion.
President—Mrs. M. M. Phelan.
Vice-President—Mrs. Redmond.
Treasurer—Miss Emma Kirwan.
SODAMTY OF THE CHILDREN OF MaRY,
Composed of the Catholic young ladies, held its first meeting on Sunday, September 17th, Mother Superior presiding. The following officers were appointed until the annual election, which takes place on the eighth of December:
Directress—Sister M Compassion.
President—Miss Emma Kirwan.
- Vice-President—Miss Marietta Ward.
Treasurer—Miss Mary Kirwan.
Secretary—Miss Maggie Tuberty. .
Librarian—Miss Mary Prince.
Sacristan—Miss Emilia Emmonds.
St. Teresa’s Literary Society, Composed of the young ladies of the Graduating and First Senior Classes.
Directress—Mother M. Eusebia.
President—Miss L. Marshall.
Vice-President—Miss Alice Shea.
Secretary—Miss Annie Borup.
Treasurer—Miss Kate Zell.
Librarian—Miss Mary Kirwan.
St. Eusebia’s Literary Society, Composed of the Second and Third Senior Classes. The election of officers resulted as follows : Directress—Sister M. Annunciata.
President—Miss Rosa Devoto.
Vice-President—Miss N. Duffield.
Treasurer—Miss M. Letourneau.
Librarian—Miss V. Balk Secretary—Miss M. Ward.
St. Angela’s Literary Society, Comprising the young ladies of the First, Second and Third Preparatory Classes.
Directress—Sister IL Angeline.
President—Miss Caroline Creveling.
Vice-President—Miss Amelia Emmonds.
Secretary—Miss Eudora Willy.
Treasurer—Miss Agnes Conahan.
Librarian—Miss Hannah McMahon.
TABLES OF HONOR—SB. DEp’l.
October 1st.—Misses La'sen, Brown, N. Duffield, Rollins, West, Green, A. Lloyd, Wilder, Prince, De-voto, Johnson, Letourneau.
junior dep’t.
September 21th.—Misses Horgan, Harrison, Wood, Faxon, Gollhardt, Munn, Sylvester, O’Mara, Full-man, De Long, Carlin, Wile, M. Garrity.
HONORABLE MENTIONS.
Graduating Class.—Misses M. Kirwan, Shirland, Tuberty, Dillon, Marshall, A. Clarke, J. Hogue, Borup, Forbes, Hurst, Tinsley, K. McMahon.
First Senior Class.—Misses Zell, Neash, Hoyle, Cochrane, Lange, O’Shea, Todd, Haymond.
Second Senior Class—Misses L. Duffield, Plamondon, Ward, Reynolds, Ball, Butters, Piatt, Hndsell, Coffey, Laila, Millis, Dickerhoff, Wood, Champion.
Third Senior Class.—Misses Nelson, Falvey, Taylor, Reynolds, Edwards, Armsby, N. Hogue, Culver, Leonard, Walker, Robson.
First Preparatory Class.—Misses Emmonds, M. McIntyre, H. McMahon, St Clair, Kellogg, Hamilton, Sanders, Creveling, Sullivan.
Second Preparatory Class.—Misses Momey, McLaughlin, Conahan, Nash, Moore, Pinney, Washburn, Bower, Hoyt, Judy, McLaughlin, R. McIntyre, Goodbody, Slaidard, Taylor, Willey, Lafferty, Eutsler, Kelly, Hilton, Selby.
Third Preparatory Class.—Misses Roberts, Heust, McCarthy, Miller, Huff
The “AVE MARIA,”
A Catholic •Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Danie University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the j ear.	»■
For 5 years. $10, in advance.
For 2 years $5. in advance.
For 1 j ear. $3. in advance.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers. for one year, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $25. in advance.
To clubs often subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Mabia for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Miria for $50, in advance.
The postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
JTofre Dame, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Bailroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States
TEOS:
Board. Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing and Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per Session of five months, ---------	150 00
French. German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, ---------- 10 00 Instrumental Music, -------	12 50
Use of Piano, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 10 00
Use of Violin, --------	-	200
Drawing. -	-------- 15 CO
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	6 00
Graduation Fee—Com’l. $5 00; Scieut’c, $8 00; Class’!, 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the Col-
lege are charged, extra, -	-	.	-	-	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationary, etc., at current prices.
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September, the Second on the 1st of February,
For further particulars, address
Very Bev. W. COBBT,
President.
DUNBAR'S
Weuderful
BETHESDA MINERAL SPRING WATER, OF WAUZBBBA, WISCONSIN.
COL. DUNBAR, Director and General Manager of the Bethesda Springs, of Waukesha, Wisconsin, has opened a depot for the sale of this wonderful water at 139 Dearborn street, Tribune Building, Chicaso, Illinois. The efficacy of this water in cases of Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, Chronic Diseases of the Liver, Bilious Affections, Diseases of the Kidney, and its associate organs, Dropsy, and Gouty Swellings, is unsurpassed.
It was this water that re-established Chief-Justice Chase’s health.
Call or send for Circulars. Testimonials of cures. Directions how to use the water accompany each package sold.
RICHARD DHNBAR,
139 Dearborn st., Chicago, Or EDWARD P. DUNBAK, at the Springs.
v5nl
L. S. &M..S. RAILWAY.
SUMMER ARRANGEMENT.
^TRAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 12 20 p. m.
**	“	9.17 p ni.
“ tk 12 35 a m. Way Freight, 340 p. m.
Arrive at Buffalo 410 a. m
“	•	2 U0 p. m
M	“ 5 30 p. m
“	“	6.50 p.m
GOING WEST.
Leave South Bend 3.53 p.m. “	“	313 a m.
"	“	5.00 a.m.
Way Freight, 11.55 a m.
Arrive at Chicago 7 20 p. m
*•	‘‘	6.50 a. m
“	M	8.20 a. in
“	u	11.40 p.m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
X®* Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 16 minutes faster than South Bend time.
J. H. DEVER1UX General Manager, Cleveland. Ohio CHARLES F. HATCH, General Superintendent, Cleveland. C. P. Leland, Auditor. Cleveland, Ohio.
----Desmond, bup’t Western Division. Chicago. 111. J W. Caby. General Ticket Agent Cleveland Ohio. C. Morse, General Passenger Agent. Chicago Illinois.
M. B Brown, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
A. J. White, Freight Agent, bouth Bend.
NEW ALBANY CEOSSING. To Lafayette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 4.20 a. m., and 7:30 p. m.
Freight, 4:05 p. m.
Going South—Express passenger, 11:13 a. m , and 6:20 p. m.
Freight, 4:50 a. m.
OLD, BEETABEE AND POPUEAB BOUTE.
Chicago, Alton & St. Louis Line.
CSfRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, ISP near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
Day Express (except Sundays)..............9.15	a.m
Connects at Dwight with Trains on Western Div.
Joliet Accommodation (except Sundays).....4.10 p.m
Night Express (except Sundays)............6.00	p.m
Lightning Express (except Saturdays)......9.00 p.m
General Ticket Office,
55 Dearborn. Street, Chicago,
Where Passage and Sleeping-Car Tickets can be purchased, and all desired information as to Routes, Connections, etc., will be cheerfully furnished.
J. C. McMULLIN, Gen’l Sup’t.
JAS. CHARLTON, Gen’l Ticket Agent.
A. Newman, General Freight Agent.
H. B. Taylor, Ticket Agent, Chicago.
vonl
PENNSYLVANIA CENTBAE
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New York without Change.
Direct Route to Baltimore and Washington City.
ON and after June 1,1871. the 9 pm. train from Chicago arrives in New York at 11 30 a m. the second day, 1% hour in advance of auy other route ; with corresponding reduction to Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington. Leaves Chicago daily except Saturdays and Suudajs.
The 5 15 p.m train from Chicago arrives in New York at 6 41 am. the second morning,!^ hovr in aduince of f ny other line. This train has an eegant Silver Palace Car mnuinr through between Chicago, Philadelphia and hew York without change.
The 9 am. train from Chicago daily (except Sunday), with Pullman PalaceCars attached. Ihroitgh Ietueen Chicago and New York,ipithout change,3% hours in advance of any other route, and in time to make connection for Boston, ho other Line offers this advantage.
Trains from Chicago to Cleveland via Crestline and “Pee” Line, connecting at Cleveland with trams on ibe Lake bhore Bailroad for all points reached by that route.
Connections made at Crestline for Columbus, and at Mansfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
Passage and Sleeping-Car Tickets can be purchased at the Company’s Office. 65 Clark Street, and at the Passenger Depot corner Madison and Canal Streets, Chicago,	1
THOMAS L. bCOTT, President.
J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelnhia. F. R. MYERS, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh- * W. C. CLELAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Ag’t, Chicago-