
The Scholastic’
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 24, 1875.
Number31
JNO. HAGERTY, *	L. G. TONG.
City Judge. •	Notary Public.
gAGERTY & TONG, ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
ES. PECKS, „ , .
.	Dealer m
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, •
Boys’ Clothing and. Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
J) L HOLLAND, & Co.,
'	Wholesale Manufacturers of -
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
TOO MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
JQ E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST,
No. 96 Michigan Street, - South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m
Do you want a drive ? Go to
JgEN COQUILLARD’S
LIVERY STJLBITES
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
-	THE
BOND HOUSE
Niles, -	-	-	-	- Michigan.
McKAT, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and horn, all trains, for guests of the house, nov 28-56 tf.
■g NICAR & Co.,
’ HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
HEADQUARTERS FOB	.
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., o24-tf
■y NICAR, -
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF -
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Eto
—ALSO—
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc.
o24-tf
J. STAGE,
’ COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Laud Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, eto« ^“Orders expeditiously attended to.
Office with M. Stover, Room S3, over Wills & Sterns
Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.	-
nov 28-56 tf.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
South Bend, Indiana
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rriHOSE -who patronize the National Hotel will find during their X stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the CoUege and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor.
nov 7-8m	"
Q.EORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
'	AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings. .
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND.
(Up Staiis.)	56’ o24-tf
The Students’ Office!
HPUSTT&'Z- ZBIiTTAA, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc.
No. 54 Washington St.,	.
SOTJTTI ZBZEZNTD, ZENTD.
ap!24
450 •
THE SCHOLASTIC.
CLOTHIKG HOUSE.
MEYER LIVINGSTON, CO AVasliington Street, [Three Doors West of Blum’s Cigar Store] SOUTH EEKD, USTHDT-AITJL.
^^“Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give aim a Calk	a!7
ZTKLINGEL & SONS,
69 YVasliing-ton Street.
SOUTH SEJSTD, HSTJDI^.2Sr_A..
~~ Keep constantly on hand a complete assortment of
MEN’S AND BOYS’ FINE BOOTS AND SHOES.
OF THE Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and Bracket & Boyden's Hand and Machine Sewed Goods.
THE LARGEST STOCK IN THE CITY.
Give us a Call and See the Nobby Styles.
LADIES, We would call your attention to our immense stock of FINE
SHOES of all the standard makes.	al7
L. S. & M. ^RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend sfollows:
GOING EAST.
9.35 A. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. m. ; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.12 A. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 P. m. ; Cleveland, 9.50
11.67 A. M. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. m.; Buffalo 4.20 a.m.
9.11 p. m.(No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m.
8.00 p. m. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a. m„ Cleveland 7.05 a. m., Buffalo 1’10 P. m.
E 6.44k P. m. (No.701, Local Freight.
3.18
6.24
6.31
6.4L4
8.00
9.16
GOING WEST.
A. m. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15
6.30 a. m. ■
; Chicago
a. m. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago, 8.30 A. m.
p. m. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10. p. m.
p. m. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 6.35; Chicago, 9.
a. m. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55
A. M-, Chicago 11.10.
A. M. [No. 71] Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers Upon Through Freight Trains.
3. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W; GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAI NE, Gen'l Sup’t.
diicago, Rock Island and Pacific It. R.
Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, Grand Pacific Hotel.
Trains.	leave.	arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and
Atchison Express,	10.13 a m	3.30 p m
Peru Accommodation, 5.00 p m	9.30 a m
Might Exprass*	10.30 p m	1.15 a m .
Michigan Central Railroad.
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1874.
G-oing	East.	
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit
Mail -	-	-	5 00 a m	9 02 am	5 45 pm
Day Express -	- 8 30am	11 47 a m	6 30pm
Accommodation -	335pm	7 35pm	8 45 am
Atlantic Express - 515pm	8 55 p m	3 50 am
Night Express - - 9 pm	1245pm	8 00am
Going	West.	
Trains. . Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	-	7 00 am	4 05 pm	8 05 pm
Day Express -	- 10 20 a m	-5 20 pm	9 00pm
Accommodation -	150 p m	6 30am	1035 am
Evening Express - 5 40pm	2 30 am	630 am
Pacific Express - - 10 00 pm	500am	8 30 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 pm, 630 pm, *9 am, *7pm.
Arrive at Niles—8 45 a m, 3 55 pm, 710 p m *9 40 a m, *.740 p m.
Leave Niles—630 am, 9 20 am, 510 pm, *8 am, 7 5 pm.
Arrive at South Bend—715 a m, 10 am, 555pm, 7 8 40am, 7540pm
NOTBE DAME STATION.
Going East, via Wiles.
Depart-807 an, 6J38pm,7907 am,77 07pm.
Arrive—7 07 am, 942 am, 546pm, 7 8 32 am, 75 32pm
Going West, via Wiles.
Depart—310 p m. Arrive—® 43 • m.
^“Trains marked thus * 7 run SundHP •nly.
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH,	W. B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
flWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Up Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St.Louis and SpringfieldExpress, via Main Line
Kansas City and Denver Fast Express, via, Jacksonville, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis, Springfield, Texas and New Orleans Lightning Express, via Main Line,
* Except Sunday. $ Except Saturday.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
•9:40 a.m. *8:10 p.m.
• 12:00 noon *2 50 p m
•12:00 noon *2:50 p.m •4:30 p.m. *9:20 am.
19:45 p.m. |7:30 a.m.
1 Daily. $ Except Monday
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Gars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRAOK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago,Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 a. m. | Arrives at New York 7.35 a.m.«
2d train “	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.50 a.m.*
3rd train “	“	10.00. p. m. |	“	“	11.15 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistaut Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphia.
F. E. MYER8, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Pittabnrgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
*Becond day.
t
The Scholastic.
'	pEYOTED TO THE JnTEJ\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
I>isce quasi semper victurus; -vivo quasi crag morlturxis.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 24, 1875.
Number 31
• The Delirious Youth.
BY FLO.
He stands within the dim-lit room
In solemn hours when midnight deep O’ershronds the luckless wanderer’s doom, And lulls contented peace to sleep: Whilst low the flickering taper bums, And swift the gloomy shade returns.
How pale the youthful face appears!
How wildly fierce his eyeballs roll!
How shook with superhuman fears
He feels the pinions bind his soul!— And dark contortions vivid—wild—
Bespeak the demon—not the child.
With frenzied fear he grasps the air, To him so full of nameless dread, So full of demons everywhere
Created from his burning head.
And deep the viper’s loathsome tooth Sinks in the bosom of the youth.
Ah 1 vainly does he strive for rest;—
No comfort for the sinful heart, No peace and pleasures of the blest	.
To wicked ways their dews impart.
The Evil One in evil lives, And of his misery freely gives.
Thus through the long, dark, lonesome night, The youth in anguish seeks repose;
But tortured by his feverish fright, Accepts whate’er his fancy shows;
And as the light of morn expands
He greets the day with outstretched hands.
Alchemy and. the Alchemists*
A LECTURE DELIVERED BEFORE THE NOTRE DAME SCIENTIFIC ASSOCIATION.
I. Origin of Alchemy.
GENTLEMEN OF THE SCIENTIFIC ASSOCIATION.
The subject just mentioned, on which I have chosen to address you this evening, is one of those poetical episodes occasionally met with in the history of science, and which, although remarkable rather for a kind of romantic interest which attaches to it, is not nevertheless entirely devoid of instruction. Its consideration will teach us how very imperfect and limited was man’s knowledge of the natural sciences in the early stages of society—how slow the progress he made in them—slow indeed, when compared with
the giant strides which even in the earliest ages he made in the fine arts, painting, sculpture, architecture and the various departments of- literature. We will likewise learn how the minds of men, while yet in ignorance of the causes of many physical phenomena,—once so mysterious, now so well understood,—were naturally prone to refer them to supernatural agency, and what hearing the chief offspring, alchemy and its congenec astrology, of this erroneous mode of thinking had on the religious, political and social institutions of succeeding generations. We will see, also, how a theory, because originated and supported by men of superior genius, is capable of holding possession of the minds of men even after the observations of facts and the result of experiments have proven, one would think conclusively, the theory to be untenable; how men would endeavor to explain facts to save the theory, when, on the contrary, they should have made the theory conform to facts, and give a satisfactory solution of the phenomena which it had been invented to explain. Such for instance was the theory of the constitution of matter introduced by Aristotle, or more correctly by Empedocles, and at a later period the alchemistic theory of the two elements, of which, however, we will speak further on. But let us, without further preamble, enter upon the subject under consideration.
The etymology of the word alchemy is as uncertain as the date of the origin of the art itself. It is, however, according to philologists, most probably derived from the Arabic particle al, “ the,” and cliemia, “ chemistry”—the chemistry by excellence, a name invented by the Arabian chemists to designate the art of transmuting the baser metals into gold, in contradistinction to practical chemistry, which Jim for its object the preparation of new and useful compounds and substances of general utility in the arts and mannfan. tures. The word chemia is by some derived from chemi, (from the vulgate “ Shem,” Egyptian Ghem) the ancient name of Egypt, because the art of chemistiy, it is said, was first cultivated there. Others again maintain that it is derived from kimia, secret or occult art, from the Arabic verb kamai, to hide or conceal. Many other etymons have been suggested, but those above given are the ones most generally accepted, and to all appearances the most correct. _
When alchemy was first cultivated as an art, for it never rose to the dignity of a science, is not clear. It is well known that the Egyptians were acquainted with many chemical facts at a very early date, as existing monuments testify. They had a knowledge of the smelting of ores, and of the working of metals, as is evident from their many works of art still extant. They preserved dead bodies from decay, prepared many medicines, and knew how to make soap, beer, glass, vinegar, sal-ammoniac/--
452
THE SCHOLASTIC
and metallic alloys. Their process of coloring glass and earthenware, the secret of which was not discovered until quite recently, proves also that they had a knowledge of the composition of paints and pigments. The Tyrians, likewise celebrated for their skill in dying and making glass, were not behind the Egyptians in their chemical knowledge. The little chemical knowledge that the ancient Greeks and Romans possessed was, like many other things, borrowed from the Tyrians and Egyptians. The Chinese too, at a very early period, probably even before Egypt had become celebrated as the “ cradle of science,” were familiar, in addition to many other facts, with the processes for the fabrication of paper, porcelain, alum, sulphur, nitre, borax, verdigris, and gunpowder, as the investigations of archaeologists and recent discoveries clearly prove.
A knowledge of these facts, however, belongs rather to the domain of practical chemistry, and not to chemistry as a science, and much less to alchemy in the proper acceptation of the term. It is true that alchemy has often been confounded with chemistry, but the objects had in view by the cultivators of these several arts were entirely different. The object of the alchemists proper was the transmutation of the baser metals into gold, the production of the philosopher’s stone, the alcahest or universal solvent, and later on, the discovery of the elixir of life, or a medicine that would cure all diseases and prolong life indefinitely; whilst those who cultivated chemistry had in view only the discovery of new substances, and compounds of general utility in the arts and manufactures. Chemistry, accordingly, as an art, is almost coincident with the origin of society itself; but as a science, it extends back no further than the latter half of the 17th century. But although practical chemistry was cultivated thus early, alchemy does not appear to have been studied, at least according to the most authentic accounts, until a much later period. It probably first originated among the Mahometan Arabs of the Califate. It is true that many writers maintain that it was known at least two or three centuries sooner, but the records on which they base their statements have been called in question. They also may have been misled by the indiscriminate use made by ancient writers of the words “chemistry” and “alchemy” to signify the same thing. The alchemists themselves, however, claim that their science, as they call it, was known from the remotest antiquity. But most of them agree in considering an unknown personage, Hermes Trismegistes,* as the father of alchemy, whence it is sometimes denominated “The Hermetic Art.” Some, again, say that Moses, or David, or Solomon, was the inventor of alchemy; whilst others no less positively assert that the principles of alchemy, the secret of the transmutation of metals, was revealed to Adam by God Himself.
“Will you believe antiquity ’—records ?
M show you a book where Moses and his sister And Solomon have written of the Art;
Aye; and a treatise penned by Adam.”
Indeed, according to some writers the mythology of the Greeks contained under allegorical language all the secrets of the Hermetic Art. The myth which represents Jupiter
* According to some writers, the alchemical name of the Hoth or Tout of the Egyptians, the Hermes of the Greeks, and the Mercury of the Latins. Laetantius says of him: “ Hoth an-tiquissimus et instructissirnus omni genere doctrines adeo ut multarum rerum et artium scientia Trismegisto nomen imponeret.”
changing himself into a shower of gold, alludes to the dis* tillation of gold by the philosophers. The hundred-eyed argus metamorphosed into a peacock’s tail refers to the manifold colors of which sulphur is susceptible by the action of heat. The fable of Orpheus conceals the sweetness of potable gold, one of the many names of the elixir of life; -and Suidas, a lexicographer of the eleventh century, maintains that the “ golden fleece ” sought for by Jason and the Argonauts
“ Was no other than a book of alchemy
Writ on a large sheepskin, a good fat-ram vellum.” .
But this is nothing more than the exaggerated babble of certain alchemists, who would have others to believe that their favorite art was as ancient as they themselves claimed it to be noble. According to reliable records, the quest, for the philosopher’s stone was first begun by the Mahometan Arabs, after the foundation of Bagdad. Some historians indeed say that it was begun before this time, and cite in proof of their assertion the fact that Diocletian caused all the books on alchemy possessed by the Egyptians to be destroyed, in order thereby to prevent them from coining money in their rebellions against him. No such decree, however, has ever been found, and the fact that it was ever issued is justly doubted.
[to be continued.]
American Artists
Jonathan Trumbull, an American Colonial Governor, was born in Lebanon, Connecticut, in 1710, and died August 17th, 1785. He was graduated at Harvard College in 1727. Subsequently he devoted himself to mercantile pursuits. But having been, meanwhile, a member of the Connecticut Assembly, he was elected Lieutenant Governor. His voice was early on the side of the popular cause; and having refused, in 1768, to take the oath of office enjoined by Parliament, was in 1769, chosen Governor, to which office he was re-elected for 14 consecutive years. He was a man of great integrity, and vigorously co-operated in securing the independence of the colonies. Washington relied on him, says Sparks, “as one of his main pillars of support,” and was accustomed to consult him in emergencies. The generic name humorously applied to the United States, is said to have had its origin in a phrase sometimes used by Washington: “Let us hear what brother Jonathan says.”
John, the son of Governor Jonathan Trumbull, was born in Lebanon, Connecticut, June 6th, 1756. He was graduated at Harvard College in 1773, and soon after devoted himself to painting; his natural love for art having been stimulated by seeing the works of Swibert and Copley in Boston. He had finished .two original pictures, the “ Battle of Cannae,” and the “Judgment of Brutus,” when the breaking out of the war called him to the field. In the spring of 1775, he joined the colonial army before Boston as adjutant of the 1st Connecticut Regiment, being then only 19 years of age. His skill in drawing, however, soon made him necessary to the commander-in-chief, and he received from Washington a commission to prepare a. place of the enemy’s works. In return for the able manner in which this was executed, he was appointed aide-de-camp to the commander-in-chief, and shortly after brigade-major. He accompanied the army to New York, and in 1776 departed northward with Gen. Gates, with the rank of colonel and adjutant-general. He held this
THE SCHOLASTIC.
453
S Office under Arnold as well as under Gates, until the Sr spring of 1777, when taking umbrage at the action of Con-8 gress in regard to the date of his commission, he left the
■ service and resumed the study of painting.
■ In May, 1780, he embarked for France, proceeded thence ■ to London, and was kindly received by his countryman, ■ Benjamin West. He was making great progress under ■ Mr. West’s instructions, when the excitement occasioned I by the execution of Major Andre led to his arrest and imprisonment. West, who was at that time painter in ordi-ary to George III, and in friendly relations with the king, interceeded in behalf of his pupil, and received the royal assurance “that in the worst possible event of the law, his life would be safe.” Our young cavalier and artist, however, was obliged to submit to a confinement of eight months, which must have been a grievous trial to so active a temperament. But this time was not wasted, as he employed it in study; and he was finally admitted to bail by a special order of the king in council, on condition of quitting the kingdom within thirty days; West and Copley becoming his sureties. He returned to America in January, 1782, but revisited England after the conclusion of peace, and resumed his studies under West.
One of his first original works after this interruption, “Priam receiving the Body of Hector,” is now in the Boston Athenaeum. In 1786, he produced his first modern historical work, the “ Battle of Bunker Hill,” followed soon after by the "Death of Montgomery before Quebec,” both of which attracted considerable attention. The first, valuable, as are all of Trumbull’s historical pictures, for its portraits, is one of the most spirited battle-pieces ever i painted, and was admirably engraved by J. G. Muller of | Stuttgart. The second picture was engraved by- the Dan-J ish engraver, F. Clemens, in London, aud for both prints | Mr. Trumbull had numerous subscribers in Europe and | America. Finding these subjects not quite to the taste of |	the British public, he chose for his next subject the “ Sortie
|	of the Garrison from Gibraltar.” A duplicate of this pic-
| ture is now the property of the Boston Athenaeum. The | finished picture, 6 feet by 9 in dimensions, was exhibited with great success in Spring Garden, London, in 1789, and E is widely known through the engraving by Sharp. In the h autumn of 1789, he returned to America to obtain the like-L nesses of distinguished patriots for a contemplated series h of national pictures. This object accomplished, he went to F England as secretary to Mr. Jay, the American minister, h	His life in this connection does not seem to have been
.J	favorable to the production of the chivalrous pictures in
» which he excelled. He finally returned to the United i States in 1815, and never again quilted his country. In
1817, he was authorized by Congress to fill four compart-g ments of the rotundo in the new capitol with pictures, illustrating the history of the nation. The next seven i- years were occupied by these works, for which he received $32,000. After finishing these pictures he employed himself in copying his national pictures on a uniform scale of )	6 feet by 9, and finally made an arrangement with Yale
College, by which in consideration of an annuity of $1,000 for the remainder of his life, the whole collection was transferred to that institution, and deposited in a fire-proof building erected especially for their reception. This collection, called the “Trumbull Gallery," is the largest and most interesting collection extant, of the works of any American painter. With the exception of four years, he passed the last twenty-seven years of his life in the city of
New York, and was President of the American Academy of Fine Arts, from its foundation in 1816, until the foundation of the National Academy of Design in 1825. In this capacity he afforded instruction to numerous pupils. He died in New York, November 10th, 1843.	***
Greith’s Mass, Op. XIII.
When this Mass made its appearance, about five years ago, it received the unanimous approval of the principal men of the St. Cecilia Society in Germany. Father Witt was so delighted with it that he requested the talented author, Carl Greith, of Munich, to write an analysis of the work, which the General Director of the Cecilia Society afterwards published in his itusica Sacra and recommended his readers to study and compare with the score, assuring them that they would gain pleasure and profit from the exercise, and congratulated the Society in having secured the services of such a master for their catalouge. As this analysis is of no interest except to the musician, we will only quote a few lines from Witt explaining the nature of Thematic Musical compositions, which will apply to some extent to all classical music.
“For church compositions with instruments, thematic work is to be recommended, as it gives opportunity to lead choir and orchestra side by side in an independent and artistic manner. The greatest master in this style is Beethoven. If .1 glance at his trio in B flat major of 97, which I cite because I find it laying before me, I see that he divides a motive in three or more parts, and introduces these parts here and there, places them opposite to contrathemes,—in short, produces the most artistic combinations. The value of such thematic work depends on the value of the motive and on the euphony or on the effective combinations. History relates that some of the Roman Emperors ordered small gold balls to be thrown to the populace, on which were marked a sum of money, a villa, etc., the lucky individual who succeeded in getting such a ball received the fortune marked thereon. Such a golden ball is, for example, the theme in Beethoven’s fifth symphony :
illilglllli
from which the Caesar of the heavenly art has conjured a marvellous edifice. He plays with the theme, turns it right and left, lets it appear as in a kaleidoscopic view, etc. The genius of this king of music has directed him into the path of thematic work, and his followers have pursued the same course since his time.”
The majority of those who assist at the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass are, we have no doubt, perfectly familiar with the meaning of the text sung by the choir. Those who are not, should read the English version now found in nearly every prayerbook. They should remember that singing in church is strictly a form of prayer, and not intended to amuse the congregation; that even the joyous music of the Gloria should be something quite different from the style of music heard in the Exhibition-Hall, and that it is only suitable for the time and place if it enables the hearers to pray better either during or after the performance. But to our subject.
The Kyrie opens with a prelude by the instruments (first and second violins, ’cello, contra bass, French horns and organ) foreshadowing, as it were, the- theme, and
<54
THE SCHOLASTIC.
leading the singers into the spirit of the work. Then the soprano and bass take it up; after four bars the alto takes the place of the bass for four bars more; then all sing the theme in unison. But not to weary the reader with details, the Kyrie eleison and Christe eleison are repeated, now loud, then soft, now in unison, then each for himself, striving as it were to make itself heard, representing thereby the different emotions with which a multitude sends its supplications to the Throne of Grace—the instruments meanwhile moving harmoniously along, passing in and out through the different voices, leading, following, soothing, cheering, supporting, until the whole volume of sound rises like one majestic cloud of incense to the Father in Heaven.
The Gloria begins with a soft unison, as if after having listened to the chant of the angels they could only repeat in wonder and awe the “Et in terra pax hominibus." But at the “Laudamus fe”the full power of joy breaks forth, each in his own way giving vent to an overflowing heart of gratitude and love. The “ qui totlis" interrupts for a while the joyful character, and takes the form of a litany, one part making the invocation, the other responding sup-pliantly Miserere nobis. The “quantam!' resumes the joyful theme of the “Laudamus te," increasing in power and intensity until the last “ Amen" has died away,and the mind is enabled to turn with renewed fervor, we hope, to the continuation of the Holy Mass.
The Credo, from the variety of subjects which it introduces, gives full scope to the piety and genius of the composer to portray the meaning of the text. The “ Et incar-nalus est ” being, as it were, the gem of the whole work, calls forth the best efforts of the composer. To illustrate the change that came into the world at the coming of our Saviour, the music changes from a minor key to a major, the latter being more joyful in its character; the minor is resumed at the “ Crucifixus," in unison, as it were lamenting with one voice the sufferings and death of our Lord. The “Et resurrexit" is led off by the contra bass, the other instruments coming in as the melody rises, the voices joining in, rising higher and higher, thus conveying even to the dullest minds the resurrection of our Saviour. At the “ et iterum" and similar places, when the coming of our Lord is anounced, the horns have prominent parts, giving some idea of a blast of trumpets. One of the most striking parts is the “ simid adoratur" in which the voices sing very softly, without accompaniment, signifying that adoration can only be made by the human heart and lips.
The Sanctus and Benedictus with a rather florid Hosanna, probably come nearer to the “Music of the Past” than any other portion of the work. The Agnus Dei is considered by good judges the finest part of the Mass. Here the form of the litany is again introduced, ending with the beautiful theme of the Kyrie on the Bona, nobis pacem.	.
We have said enough to give our readers a hint how to listen to this and other Masses intelligently. If our choir is not able to give the full effect of this grand work, the fault lies with them and their director. It is certain that the members of the choir and orchestra know and recognise the beauties of the Mass, because they have studied it, and in future performances they are determind to be still more attentive to marks of expression and to the meaning of the text, so as to bring out the beauties of the composition and assist the hearts and minds of the congregation in worshipping God.
Horse-hiir Snakss. — ~* - -
It is a popular and common belief among children and uneducated persons, and not unfrequently among men who pretend to scientific knowledge, that if a horse-hair be placed in a basin of rainwater in warm, moist weather, and permitted to remain there for a certain length of time, it will become metamorphosed into what they are pleased to call a “snake,” become endowed with vitality, and present all the appearances of an active, though diminutive serpent. To those who are acquainted with the laws of the origin and development of organic beings, it is .unnecessary to remark that the theory is entirely false. But as no theory, however absurd, is ever entirely devoid of a foundation, so in this case; and we shall endeavor to-trace out the cause which led to this widespread delusion. The horse-hair snake, as such, does not exist; but there is an en-tozean worm which is not exclusively parasitic that is often found in warm, stagnant water, but which accurate scientific investigation has proven to follow the universal laws of all organic creation and is the product of an egg. The scientific world is indebted chiefly to Professor Leidy of Philadelphia for the only reliable description of this singular little creature. His attention was directed to the subject by the repeated efforts that were being made to prove that the “ horse-hair snake ” was not a myth, but really derived its origin according to the popular theory. He tried a series of exhaustive experiments to prove that the popular idea of their origin was false, and the result was given to the world in his subsequent statement that the hair-worms are semi-parasitic and live chiefly in the bodies of crickets, grasshoppers, and Various other insects, and when full-grown they bore their way out of their insect home and betake themselves to the moist earth, or to the water, where they sport about, very much resembling diminutive eels. “Here,” says Prof. Leidy, “they lay their eggs, which are almost innumerable, and are so small that many of them escape detection under an ordinary microscope. They are laid in long strings, connected by a delicate mucilaginous filament, and bear a striking resemblance to a thread of fine white sewing-silk.” “I observed,” continues Prof. Leidy,” while conducting these experiments, one ol these little creatures lay a string of these minute eggs nearly three yards in length. They are so exceedingly small that it requires forty-nine thousand of these eggs to cover the space of one inch, and I estimated the number laid in one season to average about four millions.” The eggs, exposed to the intense heat of summer, hatch in about four weeks, and liberate myriads of these little worms .which bear no resemblance whatever to their parents. They are small; annuloidal creatures, with a spinous process about the mouth, which latter is armed with two circles of sharp recurved hooks—twelve in all—and arranged anterior to a single nervous ganglion. These are never used for the purpose of acquiring food, for they have, at this period, no digestive organs, and can subsist only by the imbibation of juices from the insects on which they prey, and the only purpose these sharp weapons seem to subserve is, to enable them to penetrate the delicate integument of such insects as may chance to approach them. With these incisors they puncture the thin membrane at the joints of the legs of locusts, crickets and grasshoppers, and from thence ascend among the other organs of the bodies in much the same manner pursued by the filaria. Here they become fully sensible of the change for the bet
THE SCHOLASTIC
455
ter -which has taken place in their prospects, and they undergo a complete change, increasing most wonderfully in length until they become many times longer than the insect in which they live. But the insect is seemingly conscious all the time of the presence of this unwelcome intruder, and, in the warmest days of summer, takes measures to tempt the parasite from his stolen home; he betakes himself to the water’s edge, and there remains while the now fully developed “ hair worm ” penetrates the integument once more and eagerly reaches out for the water. It is thus that they are found in such large numbers in stagnant pools, and not unfrequently in cisterns and reservoirs, and it is not strange that people should fancy they are “animated” hairs for they bear a singular resemblance to them, and it is from this similarity that they derive their scientific' name. They belong to the sub-kingdom An-nuloida, and, owing to their parasitic tendencies, the presence of a water-vascular system, and their general threadlike appearance, they were classed with the solecida in the order Nematoaa (cr. nema, a thread), and Prof. Leidy referred them to that order, but Nicholson and others, for their various reasons, have ranked them under a separate order to which they have given the name Gordiacea. There are several species known to the scientist, but they differ very little from one another, and their names can be found only in the largest treatises on the science.
Such is the brief history of the “hair-worm,” occupying only a few paragraphs, but observations of their habits and peculiarities have exhausted in careful study and experiment nearly the whole lifetime of many of our eminent scientific men.	T. A. D.
Typographical Artists.
A great deal has been written concerning the invention and progress of the art of printing, but few have ever undertaken to portray the many virtues of the persons whose lives are spent in its service. The typo is certainly an aboriginal species of mankind when found in his normal state; but this seldom occurs. From the time a man receives the first instructions until his term of servitude has expired, his cerebral organization becomes filled with all the oddities and eccentricities known to the different classes of the human family. For example, if he be employed on a Republican paper for a time, his mind is filled with Republican doctrines, although he may at the polls hand in a straight Democratic ticket. It is not only thus in politics, but in law, and the many other subjects which cause argument and dissension. One hour he may be setting up a philosophical work; the next hour a few verses of obituary poetry, full of1 sorrow and lamentation, may engage his attention; then, perhaps, some of Josh Billings’ or Nasby’s productions; again, on criticisms of music and the drama ; market reports, editorial, gossip, and the thousand other subjets with which the papers are daily filled. It can be better imagined than described the influence and power such an occupation has upon the mind and the actions of the compositor. This is certainly the cause of their peculiarities. It often makes them long to be sent to the arms of morpheus by the aid of narcotics, thereby drowning their sorrows for a time. As a general rule, they care more for others than for themselves, especially those who were so unfortunate as to have been taught penmanship by the Indians, or before Spencer astonished the natives.
In a metropolitan city, on a Saturday night, they may be seen wending their way homeward, .having spent their last cent, as happy as larks. They and money are friends of short duration. Their greatest pleasure consists in travelling from place to place. He who has worked at the business for nine or ten years and has not visited all the first-class cities in the Union, is considered as one who has not the interests of the craft at heart, or who labors not for its advancement. In the composing room of a first-class daily may be seen groups of compositors narrating to each other the trials and hardships which each underwent on bis rounds, or discussing the qualities of Portland, Maine, San Francisco or New Orleans. Such a picture as this is mild in comparison with the reality. But there are others, whose names now decorate the pages of history, who in their day were the same as the typos of the present. Ben. Franklin and Horace Greely were no exceptions to the rule. Mark Twain is a noted tramp of our own time. Speaker Blaine is a walker of the first grade. We have one in our mind’s eye, here at Notre Dame, who can recite the incidents of tramping life as readily as he can survey a botanical garden. Many more could be cited who have proven themselves to be honorable men in their professions, and possessed of more han ordinary ability.
When a person has labored for ten or fifteen years in a profession with such proclivities he must necessarily be a smart man or a lunatic. He can be nothing else. He must attain the attributes of either extreme in this space of time, if he remain actively engaged in its service. Very few attain a greater age than thirty-five or forty. Those who have gained a name by the knowledge procured from the types, deserve it. Generally they possess nothing else. The art has made many famous men, but it has yet to make one rich.	J. F. F.
Motives of Study.
There are many motives which induce persons to study. Indeed it seems each has a motive of his own. I will give a few cases which I have lately noticed. The motive of one young man whom I have known for a good while as a hard student, is this: his father, as he says, is an educated man, and has sent him to college to acquire an education. He himself has a decided aversion to books; but studies, he says, because his father desires him to. Another, who studies hard, says that when he leaves college he will be expected by everyone, when he goes home, to be well-educated; and if he is not, he will be lowered in their esteem. Another says that he is afraid if he does not study he will be disgraced here at College: hence he studies to keep himself out of disgrace.
And now I come to the last one. He says that he studies that he may become a man, able to occupy honest and. honorable positions, and win for himself a name Here we have four cases in which the motives are very different. The first evidently studies out of respect for his parent’s wishes. The second undoubtedly studies because of his pride. The third studies because he fears disgrace. The fourth has the best motive. He studies that he may become a man. He has staked out a course for himself, which he intends to follow through life. He has an object in view, and is the one above the others who will make his mark in the world.	> W. J. R.
456
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic/
Published every WeeJc during Term Time a NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should, be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS :
Oneyear....................................$100
Single copies (5 cts.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Tlie Scholastic for the 2nd. Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is fifty cents ; besides which all new subscribers are reguested to send tea cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O.,Ind.
—There are others besides Catholics, who are opposed to the public schools. There are many non-Catholics who are opposed to secular education and are moved to oppose it, because of a profound conviction which they feel of its inadequacy to the needs of the children and of the community. Secular education develops calculation, cunning and intellectual sharpness, it is true, but it develops them at the expense of conscience and moral sensibilities. It forms a type of character which is clever, capable and even brilliant, but at the same time completely selfish and hard. It gives ability, but it does not awaken any corresponding disposition to make use of the ability for noble and pure ends and experience teaches that, bestowing culture upon an utterly bad man is like putting weapons of destruction into the hands of a crazy man. We are no admirers of Herbert Spencer, nor of his teachings, but if he has done one act for which he deserves praise, it is for exposing the shallow sophistry which supposes there is any moral in Mathematics, or that any kind of purely mental training will make a kind father or a good citizen. The educational institutions of our land have increased, there is much that is excellent in our public schools; and yet the growth of vice and crime, we might say, has kept at even pace, if it has not surpassed the progress of the schools. There is among the very classes in which the advocates of secular education looked for the best results of their system, a most distressing deterioration of character. Can it be otherwise than natural, when such evidences of demoralization -stare them in the face, that religious people of all denominations should oppose themselves to the Public-school system, and should hold in dread'and suspicion the system which seeks to diminish the moral instruction of children and eliminate all religious influences in the schools ? They know that the health of the mind is not produced from such a restricted diet. They feel that the principal object of education is not to teach this or that branch of knowledge, but to make good and upright citizens. They know that there is no connection between geology and goodness, between arithmetic and morality.
The grand objection to the public-schools is that they do not “graduate” the class of men and women we want; that, notwithstanding the magnificent educational institu-tions and the lavish use of the people’s money for schools, .there is an acknowledged increase of crime and a demori-lization of character which shows that there is some real, radical defect in the public-school system.
This defect of the public-school system lies in the fact .that the head is trained to the neglect, or rather at the expense of the heart. The moral virtues, without which education is a real curse, are left to take care of themselves
In the present school system the graces, humanities, the charities, the noblest sentiments of human nature receive no recognition. In the words of a non-Catholic writer “ The idea of duty, which is the foundation of character; the sentiment of reverence, which makes subordination and greatness possible; the sympathies, which are sources of respect for the rights and feelings of others; the beautiful amenities which bind human beings together and make life lovely—all that belongs to the distinctively moral side of human nature, and falls into the category of the heart— are pushed aside and left to such precarious invigoration as they may chance to get elsewhere.”
These are the reasons why good persons of all denominations are opposed to the public-schools, but Catholics have a still further objection to them. They hold that the child should be taught-his religion while at schools, and in the public school, as they are now conducted. This isim-possible.
—The College Message, of Cape Girardeau, one of our sprightliest and best exchanges, speaks of the proposed convention of the presidents of Catholic colleges in the following terms: “ In a late number of the Scholastic, the suggestion was made that the presidents of the different Catholic colleges hold a convention to discuss matters relating to the conduct and standing of these institutions, and to unite on some plans to promote the interests of Catholic college education. For our part, we think the dea an excellent one, and great credit is due the Scholastic for having broached this subject at the present time. Indeed, Notre Dame has long been foremost in advancing the interests of Catholic education, and the improvement of its literature; its excellent weekly, the Scholastic, is not afraid to profess itself Catholic and to stand up nobly in defence of the doctrines and interests of its religion. Regarding the subject now proposed, we are happy to say that having consulted the authorities here about it, they are enthusiastic over it, and give their heartiest approval to such a step. We think that such a convention would be productive of an immense amount of good; and the formation of an association among the presidents of Catholic colleges, having regular meetings and consultations, would not only prove highly beneficial to each institution, but would immeasurably advance the interests of the cause we all have so much at heart. In only one point do we differ from the views of the Scholastic', that is, in regard to the time of holding this convention. We are of the opinion that the summer months would not be the most appropriate for such an assembly; indeed we think it would be very inconvenient for the heads of some of the colleges, and our Very Reverend President assures us it would be almost impossible for him to attend at such a time. The month of May we should judge to be the most suitable ; and as the place of meeting would probably be at some of the colleges, it might be well to have the meeting during the scholastic year, and by selecting a different place eveiy year, all might have a chance to see the practical workings of each institution, and find wherein one excels another. We hope that this subject will be taken up in earnest by the superiors of our Catholic institutions, and plans for the success of the undertaking be put in immediate execution. Meanwhile we await the opinions of the representatives of our sister Catholic colleges in this matter ; and as the Scholastic was the first to move in the question, it has the first right to make suggestions in regard to the time, manner, etc., of holding these conventions.”
THE SCHOLASTIC.
457
Art Hotes.
—The number of pictures sent in for the French Academy Exhibition of this year exceeds 3,000.
—Gaillat, the portrait painter, has received an order to paint pictures of the King and Queen of Belgium.
—Mr. John Forbes Robertson has just been appointed art editor of the “Pictorial World,” the literary editor being Mr. Will Williams.
—Senor Galli has painted a copy of Murillo’s famous Mother and Child. The copy has been placed in St. Joseph Church, New York city.
—The Milanese sculptor Barzghi has finished the model of the equestrain statue of Napoleon III., which is to be erected in front of the Villa Reale in that city.
—The Mikado has commissioned the artist Ugolini to paint a series of life-size portraits of all the Sovereigns of Europe, as well as of himself and his wife, for the decoration of his Palace of Tahio, in Yeddo.
—At the Homoeopathic Fair, held lately in New York, the most notable feature was an album valued at $2,000, containing contributions from some of the leading artists in New York, notably Messers. Reinhardt, Beard, Chapin, Story, Greatorex, Moran and Hart.
—On the 16th of April, the Messrs. Leavitt sold at auction, in New York, the collection of paintings owned by H. T. Chapman, one of the most notable in the country. Among the artists represented were Gerome, Corot, Dor6, Elliott, Church, and many others.
—The Italian Minister of Public Instruction proposes a tax of twenty per cent., ad valorem, on all objects of antiquity and works of art; also, a tax upon visitors to Archaeological Museums, Ancient Monuments, - Galleries of Painting and Sculpture, and places where antiquities have been dug up. A royal decree will fix the amounts of the taxes which are thus to be levied. Under the Popes these
’ Museums and Galleries were free.
—The well-known actor Mdlingue has died at Paris aged 64, from the effects of a severe cold. He was a great favorite with the public of theatres devoted to melodrama. In “Benvenuto Cellini” he was entirely unapproachable ; and, having been originally a sculptor, he • night after night modelled on the stage, in the face of the spectators, a statue of Hebe, so rapidly and so admirably executed that the audience withdrew regretting that so _ charming a work had only been created for one night’s existence. The following anecdote is authentic:—Na-C . poleon III. was present one evening with the Empress a, a representation of Paul Meurice’s ‘Benvenuto Cellini.’’ In one of the entr’acts he sent to the artist a chamberalim
' who said: ‘ Their Majesties desire to have the statuette of Hebe, which you have just modelled on the stage., Melingue answered: ‘ Pardon me, but that is impossible In the first place, it is not made to be looked at too closely; and next, it is only put together on wood, and the clay, in drying would Ijreak off before reaching the Tuileries. But since their Majesties deign to do me such honor, I will at once send to my house for a copy in plaster, which I request them to accept.’ Three-quarters of an hour after the statuette arrived in the imperial box, and Napoleon caused the artist to be summoned that he might thank him personally. The next day, the actor received a superb snuff-box in gold, set with the imperial cipher in brilliants. ‘ You see, sir,’ said Count Baciocchi, ‘ that the Emperor does not wish to make you an anonymous present.’
Musical ITotcs.
—Geo. Sweet, a popular young baritone of New York, goes to Italy to study.
—Alluding to Halanzier’s six tenors all being ill together, some wag posted on the walls little bills calling' it the “ National Hospital of Music.”
—The approaching arrival at Munich is announced of the Abbe Liszt. He is going to direct the execution of a new oratorio of his own composition.
—Ferdinand Lamb, the eminent violinist, died on the 17th of March, at Griez, near Bozau. He was for some years a professor at the Conservatory at Moscow.
—Charles Fradel, one of the finest musicians and oneof the most elegant composers in America, received a testimonial concert at Steinway Hall in New York, on the 17th ult.
—We have received from W. F. Helmick 278 W. Sixth St., Cincinnati, Ohio, a song entitled “Sidie Darling.” The music is easy, and will doubtless be popular with lovers of music of this kind.
—The New York Oratorio Society, the Brooklyn Handel and Haydn Society, and the Arion Society, supported by an orchestra of 100 performers, under the direction of Dr. Domrosch, gave a testimonial concert to Laura Gilbert, in New York, on the 20th of this month.
—The London Saturday Review says that Sankey’s favorite note is “ one in the back of his throat, with which he pours forth a prolonged and hollow O! O! OI something between a howl and a wail, which makes one think of a melodious costermonger crying his cabbages.”
—The Folio for May has in addition to its usual amount of interesting musical items and popular sheet music, a fine Portrait of Jule E. Perkins, the great American basso, who died lately in England. The publishers, White, Smith & Co., Boston, deserve the thanks and patronage of the musical public.
—Miss Hauck is singing again in Berlin, where the Freuden Blatt speaks as follows of her personation of Marguerite: “ This is the second time we have learned to know this artist, and we do not hesitate to prefer her dramatic and tragic personations to the gay soubrette parts in which we have seen her before. The metamorphosis from Zerlina and Rosina into Marguerite could not have been more perfect, more surprising. .... She was best in the tragic part of her task.”
—A society for the promotion of sacred music in France has been created, under the patronage of the Cardinal Archbishop of Paris, and of their Royal Highnesses the Countess de Paris, and the Duchess de Chartes, the Countesses de Houssonville and Harlpool, Madame de 'Chambrun, Marquis le Drouen de Lhuys, etc. It is under the able direction of M. Gustave Lefevre, and has already given several admirable concerts, at one of which Palestrina’s sublime Improperi, Allegri’s Lamentation, Lotti’s Miserere, and a motet by Bercham (1530), 0 Jesu Christi, were given with great efficiency. Why cannot the wealthy Catholic ladies of New York form a similiar society? it would be of the greatest use.—Catholic Review.
—A. well-known'merchant of New York, a bachelor upward of 80 years of age, has given $1,000,000, toward the erection of a musical college in New York city, and signed a will bequeathing all the rest of his estate, valued at $4,000,000, except a life interest in about $250,000 of his estate, to several relatives. The charter has already passed one branch of the Legislature. The trustees are not yet selected, but the names of Cornelius Vanderbilt, W. B. Astor, D. A. Kingsland, Dr. Elmer, Charles D. Tiffhey, and Mr. Witthous are mentioned as probable members of the board. The College will be dedicated “ to the daughters of America,” but is not to exclude males. The building will occupy a site 300 by 200 feet, said to be the ground now occupied by the hippodrome. An effort will be made to secure Richard Wagner at the head of the institution, and Theodore Thomas and Drs. Pearce and Damrosch are mentioned as members of the faculty. Work on the permanent building commences next fall, but the school will be started before that time, in temporary quarters.
'—Chamber concerts mean concerts given before a small audience and in a small chamber or hall. They are usually of a purely classical character, and are generally wholly instrumental. The following is a good sample of a chamber concert: Two Movements of Quintette, (Op. 59) Ru-bensteinTmo in D Minor, Paine.—For Piano, Violin, and Violoncello. Quinttete in E Flat, (No. 4) Mozart. Song and Scherzo. Mendelssohn, Elegy.—Solo for Violoncello. Bazzini. Quartette in A. (No. 5, Op. 18) Beethoven. It was given at a private house in Cambridge, Mass., by the Mendelssohn Quintette Club. The concert was private,
458
THE SCHOLASTIC.
and as the plan upon which it and several other concerts were arranged was somewhat peculiar, we mention it in the hope that it may prove of value to others. The concerts were arranged by a number of ladies and gentlemen, and they each subscribed five dollars for six concerts, and six ladies lent their parlors, each for one evening. Only one hundred tickets were sold, and there was no public announcement nor any other expense except for programmes. The club was, of course, well paid for their performance, and the audience had six fine concerts at a comparatively low rate. The trouble of opening one parlor for one night fell to six ladies, and as all the people were well acquainted the concerts formed a sort of delightful musical .reunion. The idea is well worthy of imitation.—Vox Humana.
Literature.
—Henry Clapp, the last of that galaxy of Bohemian Journalists, who years ago laid the foundation of the New York press, is dead.
—A new monthly magazine, in the English language, is to be started at Stuttgart, in April, whose English title will be Over Land and Sea.
—Dr. Whewell’s biography is to be issued in several sections, the portion relating to his scientific researches and writings having already been sent to press.
—Mr. Hepworth Dixon has in preparation a new work on America. The gradual decadence of the half-breeds will form a prominent topic in the volume.
—Mr. Emerson’s “Parnassus” cannot be republished in England, because he has quoted so much from Tennyson and other poets upon whose books there is still a copyright.
—The second volume of the “ Chefs-d’oeuvre de Lord Byron, traduits en vers Fran^ais,” by M. A. Regnault, Honorary Librarian and Archivist to the Council of State, has just appeared.
—The autobiography of Mrs. Fletcher, the friend of Jeffrey, Cockburn, Wordsworth, and Arnold, edited by her daughter, Lady Richardson, will be given to the public early this spring.
—The French Academy has elected Edward Sabine, the English general and author, corresponding member for the class of Geography and Navigation, in place of Antoine Marie Remi Chazallon, deceased.
—The Catholic Publication Society have in press a translation of Louis Veuillot’s “Life of Christ” by Rev. A. Farley, an enlarged edition of “Mary, the Star of the Sea,” and “ Adheman de Belcastel ” from the French.
—A new work by Professor Monier Williams, called “Indian Wisdom,” giving an historical account of the chief departments of Sanscrit literature, with translations of select passages, will be published at the end of April.
—A new novel by Ouida, entitled “Signa,” is in the . press, and will shortly be published by Messrs. Chapman and Hall. It will be issued simultaneously in London, Philadelphia, and Leipsic and will be translated into most European tongues.
—Dr. Ginsburg has nearly completed the collations of the Hebrew MSS. of the Old Testament, on which he has been engaged for fifteen years, and it is understood, says the Guardian, that a considerable part of the result of his labors is in print, and will shortly be published.
—The Centennial and Journal of the Exposition is a Monthly Journal published in Philadelphia. It is well edited and gives all the information desired concerning the Exposition to take place in Philadelphia next year. Address EL W. Crotzes, 521 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.
—We have received from Thos. Kelly, Book and Picture Publisher, 17 Barclay St., New York city, a chromo representing the procession in that city on St Patrick’s Day, which will, no doubt, be highly pleasing to the many people of Erin scattered throughout the United States.
—“ Rough Notes on the Large Game and Natural History of South and South-East Africa” is the title of an illus-
• trated work founded on the journals, of the Hon. W. H. I
Drummond, which is about to be published by Messrs Edmonston and Douglas. The author is the second Son of Viscount Strathallan.
—Probably very few of our readers are aware that the Count de Jarnac, the French Ambassador, who died a few days ago, was a novel writer, yet such is the fact. He was the author of “Rockingham,” “Electra,” and “Love and Ambition,” all of which were published anonymously. They are, we believe, now all out of print.
—We are pleased to see that Tom Ewing is succeeding finely with his Sunday Herald in Columbus, Ohio. He • has enlarged his paper to eight pages and prints occasionally a supplement. Tom shows that he knows how to run a paper, making it newsy, gossipy and local. We hope he may double his subscription list and print his twelve or fifteen thousand copies.
—Mr. Swinburne, according to the Academy, is progressing rapidly with his book on the progress of Shakspere’s style, and the first instalment will appear in the May number of the Fortnightly Review. He will shortly bring out a volume of his early poems, which will consist of the “ Queen Mother,” “Rosamond,’’.those of “Poems and Ballads,” which date from college years, and one or two pieces hitherto unprinted.
—We are happy to welcome back the Pen and Plow, a most delightful monthly devoted to the cultivation of the mind and of the soil. It treats of all rural affairs in a practical and interesting manner. Its literary articles are pleasing and instructive. It is filled with the best of gossip concerning authors, and supplies a want long felt both on the farm and in the study. Price $1.00 per year. Address The pen and plow Publishing Company, P. O. box 3242 New York.
—The May number of the Catholic World is excellent, as usual. It opens with a thoughtful article on “Pius IX, and Mr. Gladstone’s Misrepresentations.” This is followed by a pretty poem “ The Bath of the Golden Robin ”; the fourth chapter of the serial; “Are You My Wife?” comes next. The story is quite interesting. To the review of Draper’s Conflict between Religion and Science we call the attention of our thoughtful students. “ Stray Leaves from a Passing Life” is continued in this number. It is a charming story. “ Calderon’s Autos Sacramentales ” is concluded. All students in literature will ’find this pleasant reading. “ I am the Door ” is a pleasing poem. “ The Tragedy of the Temple, ” and “ Substantial Generations,” the philosophical article, are also concluded in this number. “ The Modern Literature of Russia ” is another article of interest to literary readers. This article is followed by a very readable one called “The First Jubilee.” “ Greville and St. Simon ” come next, and is followed by “ Dom Gueranger and Solesmes." This article on Gue-ranger should be read by the young men here. They are apt, on account of seeing in secular papers so much concerning the freethinking authors of the age, to believe that the great authors of the day are mostly of that class. Would that our young men would read more of such men as the illustrious Dom Guijranger! After a pretty “Legend of Blumisalpe” we have the “Book Notices” ending the number. As our readers may see from the contents, which we have rapidly named, the number contains much entertaining and instructive reading.
Big Invention.
Lloyd, the famous map man, who made all the maps for General Grant and the Union Army, certificates of which he published, has just invented a way of getting a relief plate from steel so as to print Lloyd’s Map of the American Continent—showing from ocean to ocean—on one entire sheet of bank note paper, 40x50 inches large, on a lightning press, and colored, sized and varnished so as to stand washing, and mailing, for 30 cents, and plain for tourists 25 cents, or mounted with rollers ready for the wall, and delivered post-paid anywhere in the World, on receipt of 50 cents. This map shows the whole United States and Ter-
THE SCHOLASTIC.
459
ritoriea in a group, from surveys to 1875, With a million places on it, such as towns, cities, villages, mountains, lakes, rivers, streams, gold mines, railway stations, etc. This map should be in every house. Seud price to the Lloyd Map Company, Philadelpia, and you will get a copy by return mail.	.
Scientific Notes.
—Dipping cotton fabrics into sulphate of ammonia in solution containig 10 per cent, of the salt, is said to render them uninflammable. They should be resaturated after every washing previous to ironing.
—The Fort Worth (Tex.) Democrat says: “Some hunters and land speculators riding across Grand Prairie, north of town, a few days ago, discovered a mirage. It looked like a huge Are, with horses, fences, etc., and cattle moving about through the smoke and flames. The sight is described as being grand beyond description.”	'
—A party of three persons in Paris ascended in the balloon Zenith April 16th, to make scientific observations.
The balloon attained the extraordinary height of 8,000 metres (over 26,000 feet). Two of the aeronauts were suffocated to death, and when the balloon reached the ground the third was almost insensible, and has since been so ill that his recovery is doubtful.
—The Italian Government, following the course it has already adopted on previous occasions, will gratuitously distribute this year 5,000 plants of the Eucalyptus Globulus, for cultivation in the Agro Romano, especially in the spot infected by malaria. The plants will be allotted to all who apply for them, and who give assurance that they are to be used for the purpose stipulated.
—Durable colors can be prepared economically, according to the English ifechanic, by mixing small portions of sulphate of iron, nitrate of manganese, and nitrate of cobalt, or sulphate of copper, with a solution of sulphate of zinc. The mixture is then reduced to dryness, and subjected to sufficient heat to drive off the sulphuric acid. The colors prepared by this process are greens, grays, pinks and gold.
—A curious phenomenon was noticed during a recent balloon ascent by two experienced French aeronauts of thorough scientific attainments, M. Tissandier and M. de Fonvielle. They were able to hear voices from below, and remarks which indicated that the persons in the balloon were visible to the speakers, although at the.time a cloud obscured the surface of the earth from the view of the aeronauts themselves. This occurrence is explained by the hypothesis that a cloud may be transparent and opaque at the same time, according as it may be viewed in different directions.
—The trustees of the American Museum of Natural History are engaged in an earnest effort to secure by purchase the celebrated collection of fossils owned by Prof. James Hall of Albany, -who is so widely and favorably known as the curator of the State Cabinet of Natural History. Some idea of the extent of this collection may be formed when it is stated that the portion of it already arranged for the public exhibition contains upward of 200,000 specimens, and when properly arranged will occupy a space equal to one-half of the magnificent fire-proof edifice now in process of erection by the Department of Public Parks. The duplicate specimens, which fill several hundred boxes, will be available for exchange with the various scientific institutions of Europe, and a collection unsurpassed by any in existence may thus be formed. The paleontological specimens have, for the most part, been gathered in this State; but various localities in the Southern and Western States are likewise well represented. While the work of enlarging the Erie Canal was in progress, Prof. Hall employed several experienced collectors to explore the entire route from Albany to Buffalo, and all the valuable fossils found in blasting the rocks were sent at once to him. In the almost innumerable cuttings for railways through sedimentary rocks in all parts of the country, the Prof, has been unwearied in his efforts to secure new and valuable specimens. His collection accordingly consists largely of paleozoic fossils,^specially of those belonging to the Silurian and Devonian periods. The families of Trilobites and Crinoids, the
former now extinct and the latter nearly so, are very largely represented, and it may be doubted whether a series of greater value can be found in this or any other country. Among the fossils from the later geological epochs, the tertiary beds at Claiborne, in Alabama, have furnished many valuable specimens.
This collection having been a life work with Prof. Hall, it is natural that he should wish the city of New York to secure it and place it on exhibition in the Central Park, where all American students of natural history may study the various forms of animal life that existed daring the earlier geological epochs of our planet.
The collection is now offered to the Musuem of Natural History at the price of §65,000. Repeated efforts from various parts of our own country and from Europe have been made to purchase it; but New York should certainly retain a collection of which the lamented Agassiz said: “The museum securing the Hall collection will become the finest museum in the country.” The trustees of the museum have contributed for this purpose the sum of §20,000, one-half payable in 1875 and one-half payable in 1876, on condition that an additional sum of §20,000, payable in like manner, shall be secured by subscription before the first of October next. It is to be hoped that our public-spirited citizens will soon furnish the required funds. —W. K Sun.
Society Notes.
—The 32d meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Asso ciation was held April 14th. The Moot Court was opened and adjourned until the 18th.
—The 53rd regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held April 18th. At this meeting an extemporaneous debate took place; the following were the speakers: Messrs. Soule, O’Connell, Crummey, Hunt, Monahan and Ratigan. After the debate Messrs. Lyons and McNulty delivered declamations, and Mr. Crummey read an essay.
—The 28th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association was held April 13th. At this meeting Messrs. John A. Rice, F. Rosa and A. Reinke presented themselves for membership; after fulfilling the requisite conditions they were unanimously elected. After this, declamations were delivered by the following: C. J. Whipple, H. W. Quan, J. Del Vecchio, F. Hoffman, J. Colton, W. Roelie, J. Nelson, J. French, C. Larkin, G. Lonstorf, A. Burger, N. Van Namee, A. Kleiner, E. Washburn, C. Walsh, L. Pilliod, E. Davis, F. Claffey and G. Morris. At the 29th regular meeting held April 17th, Master C. R. Post was unanimously elected a member.
—The third regular meeting of the Notre Dame Scientific Association was held April 11th, with the Rev. President, J. A. Zahm, in the chair. Mr. J. E. Hogan was elected a member. Prof. T. F. O’Mahony then entertained and instructed the Association by the reading of an able and comprehensive lecture on “Geology in General, and The Cenozoic Time in Particular,” in which he gave an accurate and artistic survey oFthe entire field of geology, calling particular attention to the vastness and accuracy of those mighty subterranean records, upon which is indelli-bly graven the history of the world, and tracing the regular and methodical developement of the different species of life, from the dawn of creation to the appearance of man.	-
Personal.
—Bro. Emmanuel has been transferred to Alton, His.
—Bro. Theogene takes the place of Bro. Emmanuel at St. Patricks school, South Bend.
—Mayor Jones and his daughter, Miss Ada, of Toledo, spent a few hours at the College on Thursday.
—We hear it rumored that Rev. M. O’Reilly, of ’59, now stationed at Valaparaiso, is to be transferred to Lafayette.
460
THE SCHOLASTIC.
—We are sorry to announce that Very Rev. Father Granger is lying quite ill here at Notre Dame. He is not expected to recover.
—Very. Rev. Father General will not he able to go to Europe this spring on account of the delicate health of Very. Rev. Father Provincial.
—Rev. Father Francis and a lay brother from the Trappist monastery of Notre Dame des Nieges, France, spent a couple of days here last week.
—Mr. James P. Sewell, a reporter of the Chicago Inter Ocean, formerly one of the Scholastic typos, paid us a short visit this week. He is on his way to Boston, where he expects to recuperate.
—Mr. Burt Hinsdale, of ’68, a typo of the Scholastic, is considered by the New Yorkers to be one of the very best stenographers in the United States. It is said that he can take over 1300 words per hour. He is now employed as the stenographer on the Tilton-Beecher trial. Poor Burt!
—At a meeting held in the Church of the Assumption, Fourth Ward, on sunday last, a society for benevolent, temperance and religious purposes was organized under the name of “The St Joseph Benevolent Society.” of South Bend with Prof. Howard, of Notre Dame, as President.
Local Items.
—Krol.
—Krolik.
—Kroliczek.
—Kroliczeczek.
—Our weather prophet is silent.
—“Now you see it, and now you don’t!”
—The Notre Dame Circuit Court is in session.
—The organ is expected here in about ten days.
—A porch is being built on the east side of the Infirmary.
—Prof. Paul has gone to Grand Rapids to put up the organ.
—The grounds at the Novitiate will be the finest at Notre Dame.
—The Excelsiors beat the Juanitas by a score of 34 to 21 on Wednesday last.
—Bro. Bonaventure commenced working in the garden again on last Tuesday.
—Our friend John rendered “Timeo Danaos,” etc., “I fear the Danes,” etc.
—Prof. Gregori has finished the portrait of Very Rev. Father General. It is a fine work.
—A beautiful statue of the Blessed Virgin will be received from Rome the comming summer.
—One of the cases in the Lemonnier Circulating Library - is to be named after Very Rev. Father General.
—The centennial anniversary of the Battle of Lexington was celebrated by rec. last Monday afternoon.
—A life-sized statue of St. Joseph in bronze, we believe, is to be placed in the niche on the outside of the Novitiate.
—The Surveying Class have changed their base of oper-- ations from tne Botanical garden to the garden in front of the College.
—If the Lemonnier Circulating Ltbrary increases each succeeding year at the same rate that it has this, it will not be long before it will assume gigantic proportions.
—“ Out] ” yelled the umpire, as our friend John was making for the first base Wednesday last. “ O-u-g-h-t”— —out—answered John, thinking of the spelling bee in one of the classes lately.
—On account of the large number of volumes to be presented by him to the Lemonnier Circulating Library, the name of Veiy Rev. Father General will be inscribed in gold on one of the cases.
—Mr. Bonney, the photographer, was at his post on last Wednesday. Business was not as brisk as it should have been. We advise our friends to get their pictures taken before perspiration sets in.
—“ What have the College boys got rec. for ?” said a young fellow to another down in Kilgubbin on Monday last. “ Cause,” said the urchin addressed, “ it’s the sentinel of the battle of the Lexicon.”
—Wanted—One or two pairs of swans, young ones, not more than one or two years old preferred. Any one having the above for sale may find a purchaser by applying by letter, stating the price, etc., to Rev. p. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres. Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind.
—The amusements of last Monday were new and amusing. At the forenoon rec., we were entertained by the antics of a trained bear and singing from the ring-master. In the afternoon we were visited by two little Italian boys who played some very good music on the harp and violins. What next?
—The Wheeling Intelligencer of April 20 says: “About six o’clock last evening, the body of Anthony Hess, son of Christian Hess, who died at Notre Dame, Ind., on Saturday last, arrived at the Bridgeport depot, and was from thence conveyed to the residence of his parents. The funeral will take place to-day.”
—Game must be scarce around this part of the country, or else our hunters are very poor marksmen. We have seen a good many make grand preparations, and start out with the expectation of coming back ladened; but alas! fate must have gone back on them, as we have not seen one return with even a robin.
—On Wednesday last, our friend John went into Bonney’s to have his photograph taken. He thought to take an easy, graceful position, with the right leg thrown carelessly over the left. But he got his right foot a little too high, and when the negative was taken not a glimpse of John could be seen. Nothing save the sole of his right boot was visible. He was completely hidden behind it. Mr. Bonney will soon have copies for sale.
—The large Crucifix on the West side of the Upper Lake was, as all know, kindly presented to Notre Dame by a pious lady in France. Lately the same lady and two other persons in France made an additional present of two statues (life-sized) of the Blessed Virgin and St. John the Evangelist to be placed at the foot of the Crucifix. The statues are in bronze and are very beautiful. They have arrived, were placed in their positions in a few days ago..
—The case of Faxon vs. Best came on for trial on the 20th of April, before the Circuit Court. This action is one of assault and battery, Mr. Faxon claiming §5,000 damages. The witnesses for the plaintiff and defendant were all examined and cross-examined, the young attor-nies displaying considerable skill and acuteness in their questionings. The case is now closed so far as the evidence is concerned, and on the 25th it will be drgued by the counsel for the two parties.	•
—On Monday last Very Rev. Father Sorin paid a visit to the Lemonnier Circulating Library where he was received by the Librarian and the'many’subscribers to the Li-bary. A beautiful and truthful address was read by Mr. John Soule, to which the Very Rev. Father General replied in his happiest vein. He thanked the young gentlemen for the kind wishes expressed in their address, complimented all on the large number of volumes which have been added to the shelves of the Library, and ex pressed his pleasure at seeing the zeal and enterprise displayed by them. He kindly offered to make an addition to the shelves himself, and donated some seventy volumes for the present. He said that when he would go to Europe he would make it his duty to purchase a large number of volumes for the Library among others, many fine English books which are scarce in this country. After many words of praise and encouragement, he made an examination of the shelves, and then retired. The Libraries have , always more or less engaged the attention of Father General, and it was to him a source of great pleasure to see the rapid strides made by the Lemonnier Circulating Library in the way of collecting books.	-	'
—The Directors of the Lemonnier Circulating Library acknowledge with many thanks the receipt of the following donations: Very Rev. Father Sorin gave Semaine des Enfants, 25 vols., elegantly bound, gilt edges and profusely illustrated; Cassell’s Natural History, 2 vols.; Seward’s
THE SCHOLASTIC.
461
Travels Around the World; De Veres Odes, and other Poems; Haydock Bible; Brownson’s Life of Prince D. A. Gallitzin; The Beloved Disciple; The Martyrs of the Coliseum; Wiseman’s Ceremonies of Holy Week; The Bible against Protstanism; Rome and the Popes; Starrs’Patron Saints; Newman’s Apologia Pro Vita sua, 2 vols; Creasy on the English Constitution; Burnap’s Lecture to Young Men; Bayard Taylor’s Picture of St. John; Audio’s Life of Luther; Southwell’s Poetical Works; Apostolical and Infallible Authority of the Pope; Anne Severen; Martin Chuzzlewith; The Croppy and Mayor of Windgap, 2 vols.; Our Lady of Lourdes; Lyons’ Elocution. Signor Gregori presented Dizionario Biografico Universale, illustrated with numerous steel engravings, 5 vols.; History of the Old and New Testament, by Royaumont. A friend who wishes us to begin a library of sermons gave Catholic Pulpit; Molloy’s Practical Sermons; Sermons for Lent, 2 vols.; Segneri Appleton’s Analysis of the Gospel; Sermons by the Paulists, 3 vols.; Massillon’s Sermons for Sundays and Festivals.
Obituary.
Diedat Notre DameUniversity, April 17,1875, Anthony Hess, of Wheeling, West Virginia. Aged 19 years.
We have no doubt but this news will be a sad one to the many friends of the deceased. During his stay here, which was from September ’73 to June ’74, and from February 1st, ’75, till the time of his death, making in all 13 months, he made many friends, and was beloved by the officers of the house, professors, prefects and students. Such could not but be the case. Indeed, as a Christian young man, a perfect gentleman, and an industrious student, he was a model for his companions. His disposition was such as to make friends of all persons with whom he came in contact. His illness was only of two weeks’ duration, during which time he received all the attention that could be paid him were he at home, by the good Sister in-firmarian, her assistants and the doctor. Three days be’ fore he died he expr esssed a wish to go to confession and receive Holy Communion, “ because,” said he, “I do not want to die unprepared.” The wi sh was granted, as it was thought it would be better to satisfy him, although the doctor was of opinion that there was no danger of death, and such was the opinion of all until an hour or so before his death. But he was expecting death, and wished to be prepared to meet it. After receiving Holy Communion he seemed to think no more of earthly things; all he cared about was to be prepared to die; prayer was his only consolation, and during the last two days of his illness all his time was spent in praying.
He was first taken sick with biliousness, and finally lung fever, of which he died Saturday evening, at a few minutes past seven, strengthened by the last Sacraments of the Church. His remains were laid out in state in one of the rooms of the infirmary, where it was alternately watched by students until removed. His brother left with the corpse on the train of Sunday evening. We sincerely sympathize with his relatives, but in doing so we aslo acknowledge the supreme power of Him who is the Master of all things, because whatsoever He does, He does well
Requiescat in pace.	O’L.
—Ex-Govrnor Bradford of Baltimore has declined a federal appointment on the ground that he does not know-anything about the details of the office. [This is thought to be the very best joke on this page.]
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
F. Brady, V. Baca, J. Berringer, J. Brown, L. Busch, W. Ball, J. Caren, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Campbell, J. Cullen, J. Claffey, T. Carroll, M. Clarke, W. Canavan, R. Doherty, J. Devine, B. Enans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, G. Hoyt, H. Hunt, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, W. Hughes, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, G. McNulty, E. McPharlin, W. McGavin, E. McLaughlin, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monahan, L. Moran, A. Mohan, E. Marshall, J. Ney, T. O’Leary, J. O’Connell, C. Otto, C.Proctor, T. Pugh, G. Roulhac' W. Ryan, E. Rattigan, J. Rudge, M. Regan, J. Reidy, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, P. Shaul, W. Stout, J. Soule, J. Thornton, F. Wil. helm, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen, C. Welty.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, A Buecker, A. Bergck, A Burger, J. W. Connolly, D. Claffey, J. Crummey, J. Colton J. Dore, J. Del Vecchio’ N. Dryfoos, R. Downey, F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxen, F. E. Foxen, F. Frazee, J. T. Foley, G. J. Gross, J. Griffith, J. Golsen; E. Gramling, F. Hoffman, C. H. Hitchcock, P. Kelley, J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, F. Kleiner, C. V. Larkin, A. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, J. Lynch, A. H. Mitchell, J. McIntyre, T. McNamara, R. McGrath, H. McGuire, T. Monahan, W. G. Morris, M. J. Murphy, W. Nicholas, W. P. Nelson, J. Nelson, H. Newman, D. J. O’Connell. C. Peltier, C. R. Post, L. Pilliod, J. L. Perea, H. W. Quan, a’ Reinke, J. A. Smith, F. Smyth, W. Smith, T. J. Solon, P. Schnurrer, C. Walsh, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, R. J. Walked,' J. E. Wood, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, F. Rollin, J. Buckles, F. Phelan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Francis Carlin, Michael McAuliffe, Samuel Goldsberry, Colly Clarke, Ralph Golsen, Walter Cunningham, Francis McGrath Colly Campau, Clement S. Moody, Otto Lindberg, Harry OrdI way, Charlie Bushey, Albert Bushey, Hugh Colton, Francis Campau, Louis Goldsmith.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, APRIL 22.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Senior Class—T. Grier, T. Murphy, C. Walter, J. Hogan, E. McLaughlin.
Junior Class—E- Graves, F. Devoto, T. Gallagher, J. Caren. J. Gillen.	’
Sophomore Class—H. Cassidy, B. Euans, J. Brown.
Freshman Class—N. Mooney, J. Ewing, E. Rattwan E. McPharlin. M. Keeler, J. Rudge, J. Kopf, T. Culliton/j. McHugh. T. McNamara, J. Mathews, R. Maas, J. Ney, J. O’Con. nell, W. Ryan, J. Soule, C. Otto, C. Welty, H. Hunt, J. Lvons J. Cullen, W. Ball.	J ’
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Otto Lindberg, Walter Cunningham, Francis Carlin, Colly Campau, Lee J. Frazee, Clement Moody, Oscar Bell, John Duffield, Colly Clarke, Ralph Golsen, Edward Raymond, Thomas Hooley.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
—Mr. and Mrs. McGrath, of Chicago, paid a visit to their daughter this week.
—“Two little Italian minstrels with eyes as black as coals,” performed for the young ladies on the harp and violin last Monday evening.
—The return of our beloved Mother Superior is anxiously looked for. In the midst of her arduous duties she has found time to reply to the correspondence of the various classes. The Minims were the happy recipients of a letter from her this week.
—The first instruction in the Chapel of Loreto, which has been given there since the opening of winter, to the Children of Mary at their Monday morning Mass, was delivered on the 19th, as usual by Very Rev. Father General. “ Joseph of Egypt as the type of St. Joseph ” was the subject. The sermon was deeply suggestive and very beautiful.
—The St. Angela’s Literary Society had an unusually interesting meeting on Wednesday. The lives of Mary and Elizabeth of England were read. Notes were taken, and, as far as time would permit, were examined by the Directress. Questions on the previous readings were

462
THE SCHOLASTIC.
asked, and interesting replies were given’by Misses F. Wells, M. Cavenor, E. Thompson, L. Johnson and J. Riopelle.
—On Sunday Rev. Father Cooney sang High Mass, and delivered a long sermon on the Patronage of St. Joseph. In the evening, after the distribution of the points, two little girls, Bridget Wilson and Lulu Hutchinson, gave some very beautiful recitations. The first named made her selection from the last No. of the Ave Maria: The Statue of St. Joseph—by Eleanor C. Donnelly. The other took hers, “ O Happy Flowers! ”—from a little book used by the singers of the Sodalities; of the authorship we are not quite sure. Very Rev. Father General kindly commended the little girls, and, at his request, both recitations were repeated. He also added many beautiful remarks on the Festival, which formed the subject of the morning’s in struction.
—On Tuesday evening one of the series of art lectures was delivered in the Study Hall, and the only regret is that the eloquent words of the accomplished speaker cannot be given in full, so that the invaluable moral lessons presented, along with the rich gems of information, could be preserved for future reference. Lorenzo Ghiberti, the Florentine artist, was the subject. The beauty of filial submission and obedience, the industry and magna-namity of true genius were dwelt upon, and the false idea that uncommon intellectual powers are an excuse for indolence and other vices, was fully refuted. Simple smartness, it was conceded, might give rise to eccentricities and looseness of habits, but true genius, first class talent, is ever laborious, indefatigable and earnest.
The profound attention of the young ladies was the best proof that they knew how to appreciate the gifted speaker and her noble lessons. It is to be hoped that she will give another lecture soon.
ART NOTES.
—Miss Mary Ann Schultheis is promoted from the Fifth to the Fourth Class in Drawing.
—Miss Genevieve Kriegh of the Fifth Class in Drawing deserves very great praise for her delicate shading and beautiful shadows.
—A. pupil may shade the flat surface of a Block “right wellbut when she comes to make the shadow, there is the test of the talent and application.
—A very graceful arrangement of leaves, vines and ferns in the “spatter-work” so successfully practised by ladies, was presented to St. Luke’s Studio by Mrs. West, of Sandusky, Ohio. The reproduction of these forms from nature are capable of displaying any diversity of taste* and in the present instance they evinced great delicacy of execution and nice discrimination.
—In spite of the wintry snows, the altars blossomed forth in great beauty for the feast of the “Patronage of St. Joseph.” A very happy variety was found in the plant leases: their tints bearing upon the choice purple-madder, and then brightening up with delicate green and touches of pure carnation, The flowers, thus carefully disposed, produced a very pleasing effect.
—The Matinee given by ths Boston Philharmonic Club, April, 12, is still the theme of conversation among the lovers of music and the pupils generally. To hear classic music perfectly rendered is a privelege, and we appreciate highly the honor to the Institution (which money cannot reward) so delicately expressed by a programme—not for so-called popular taste, or mere difficult feats to excite admiration, but pure music, such as artists love and they alone can play.	-
The Allegro con brio (first movements) from Quintette in B flat, seemed to express the whole life of its great composer, Mendelssohn, or “ Felix the Happy.” We cannot describe such music any more than we can man’s secret thoughts: but who has not felt them? We followed each thread of the wonderful harmony with intense delight.
The solo for French horn, played so smoothly by Mr. A. Belz, the orchestra playing a soft dream-like accompaniment. In this, as well as all other accompaniments they gave the proof of read artists, to know how to form the
background of a tone-picture; in other words, to lose self, ' in order to enhance the beauty of the main feature—the solo.
The world renowned Chaconne, under the skilful hand of Mr. B. Listemann, left nothing to desire. The first sweep of the bow sent an electric thrill through the audience, as ; the harmonious web unfolded its length, streaked and fringed with brilliant melody held us breathless; until it led up to a choral passage in strict style, revealing at once . the grand old master, John Sebastian Bach. As this sub- ] lime strain faded on the ear, from the holy, blessful hush arose a mighty flood of wondrous sounds, past all description. The tears flowing down many a pallid cheek, showed the power of true music, so faithfully rendered by Mr. Bernhard Listemann.
Miss Bryant sang two simple ballads, one by Klieken, the other by A. Sullivan. Her modest manner, and clear enunciation was much admired. Mr. E. Graua accompanied on the piano gratefully.
The “Turkish March,” from Beethoven’s “Ruins of Athens,” played by the whole club (Messrs. B. and F. Listemann, E. Graua, A. Belz, A. Hartdigear, M. Weiner), closed the first paat. This piece was sparkling, exact. The staccato notes pattered like hail-stones forming a striking contrast to the short legato runs, which made us feel sorry that one of Beethoven’s greater works was not on the programme.
The Second Part commenced by a flute solo, played by Mr. Weiner, a charming morceau,. We noticed particularly his chromatic runs, and trilling accompaniment to the melody. “ Sounds from the Alps,” a solo on the violincello, composed by the famous Cellist Alard, and played by Mr.-	j
Hartdiger, was exceedingly beautiful in tone, stopping and	‘
harmonies, which proved the laborious study and good execution of the performer. The Danse Hollandaise set all heads in motion. The capriccio for three violins was perfect unity, graceful, yet full of difficulties, played by Mr. Graua and the brothers, B. and F. Listemann. It is enough to say the two brothers are worthy of each other. The entertainment finished with Rhapsodie Hongroise No. 2 (Liszt), by special request entirely different to all of the previous programme. The strange weird, halting introduction and frisky crescendo, followed by the wild abandon of the gypsy dance. The short plaintive strain near the-end was a charming lull, before the tempestuous final. We tender our thanks to the whole Club, and offer our sincere appeciation, with the hope of hearing them again.
TABLET OF HONOR.
For the Week Ending April 12.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled :
Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, EL Joyce, A. St. Clair, J. McGuire, E. York, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady, S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler, K. Morris, P. Gaynor, R. Canoil, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, A. Byrne, M. Roberts, J. Pierce, B. Spencer, K Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, K. Casey, T. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham, D. Cavenor, J. Riopelle, S. Reising, M. Anthony, E. Botsford, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, A. Smith, E. Colwell, E. Pierce, N. King, C. Maigrey,L. Bosch, G. Hills, L. Brownbridge, L. Schwass, M. Railton, S. Swalley, L. Ryan.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN LESSONS.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.	.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair.

THE SCHOLASTIC.	463
pALMER & VanWINKLE, Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ' ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
Newspapers, Periodicals, magazines, Etc.
t®’” Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BABBEB AND HAIBDEESSEE,
71 Washington St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
JJR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST
109 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
^DWARD BUYSEE,
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.
76 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. %-tf
A HANAUER,
* Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
BURKE’S
EUROPEAN HOTEL.
M. BURKE, Proprietor.
JRELAND & SON,
PROPBIETORS OF
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE, No. 54= MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND., (Opposite the Dwight House).
--------o---
hack jline	.
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Alary’s.	%o242m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
---0----
DBOP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michiovn Stbeet, - South Bend, Indiana. J£o24-tf.
THE OLD “ RELIABLE ”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
TESSES. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the AYL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling publie may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during, their stay,
JERRY KN1GHT, captain MILLS, f "opnetors.
POPULAE CLOTHING HOUSE!
M. LIVINGSTON & CO.',
91 Miclilgan St., Sontli Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURNISHING GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves. Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are'MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clo tiling is Ctieap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Clottis, Cassl-meres and 'Vestings, and we turn ont the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
14=0 and 149 Madison Street.
(Between Clark and LaSalle,) CHICAGO, -	-	- ILL.
f6 3m.
YE. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller, 105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old gnglish, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
decl-Jftf.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, goto
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAUBANT, 99 WAIN STREET, - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA, MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!,’
gy Fresh Candies'Made IDaily.
"	‘	KcM-tf
464
THE SCHOLASTIC.
WATSON’S
ART JOURNAL
DEVOTED TO
Music, Literature, Art and the Drama.
THE ONLY WEEKLY MUSICAL ART JOURNAL PUBLISHED IN AMERICA.
JOHN II. CODY & co., ' MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
Jtow,
HEADING, HOOPS, &C.
Factory at Junction of P., Ft W. &. C.,’Ft. W., M. & G.
G. B. & I. Ft. W., J. & S., AND W. &. &. E. CANAL.
FORT WAYNE, EXTllTAJV^.
§1.00 Per Annum,
The Office of WATSON’S ART JOURNAL is 104 East Thirteenth Street, where all Subscriptions and Advertisements will be received.
Address, WATSON’S ART JOURNAL,
104 EAST THIRTEENTH STREET, a3-4t	New; York City.
GOLSEN & EASTMAN,
Successors to Jno. Clarke, & Co.,
DISTILLERS,
31 & 33 RIVER STREET,
CHICAGFO.
Th®
-AN- .
Illustrated Weekly Journal
DEVOTED TO
LITERATURE, ART, MUSIC AND THE DRAMA.
§1.00 Per Annum.
Address, THE JLZEdCATDTATST, 169 and 171 FULTON STREET, '	New York,
Where Subscriptions and Advertisements wil be received. a3-4t
Bi^owTTsonsr’s
Quarterly Review,
PUBLISHED BY
Fr. PUSTET FOR THE PROPRIETOR.
L. B« 5613, New York; and 204 Vine St., Cincinnati, Ohio-
This work is devoted to Religion, Philosophy, Politics, and Gen eral Literature. Each number contains 144 pages, and four numbers make a volume of 576 pages, which is furnished to subscriberat five dollars per annum in advance.	8
j^£RS. C. S. STOVER,
MILLINER,
129 Michigan Street, South tBend, Indiana.
DEALER IN
Millinery Goods, Hats, ‘Bonnets, Laces, &c.
^^The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	ap!17
OVER 1,000 CASES
OF
FITS CURED.
®r. S. Clay Todd, corner of Calhoun and Columbia streets, Fort ‘ Wayne, Indiana—P. O. Box 1,361—has permanently cured over 1,060 cases of Epileptic Fits, not having failed in a single case in the past six years. Consultations free. Medicines sent to all parts of the United States and the Canidas. For particulars, call or address as above. Dr. Todd also treats successfully ALL DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.	ap!17-4t
james^bonney,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cob. Michigan and Washington Sts., Over Coonley's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on.
hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, etc., etc., Which, he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
o24-tf
CARPENTER ™ HATTER I
j 105 MICHIGAN St. -	- SOUTH BEND.]
dec5-%tf.
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Stud Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S CJATSTTDY FACTORY^ 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy ...	-	15c.
Fine Mixed Candy .	...	. 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy ...	35c.
Caramels ...	.	.	. 35c
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	35e
.Proportionately Low Prices to Wliole-sale Cash Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
.	o24-tf