@lje	IJear.
Edited by the Students.
Siabor omnia vincit.”
Vol. I.	NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY, MAY 9, 1868.	No. XXXVI.
Editors of the Present Number :
T. O’Mahony,	JI Gibbons.
THE “SCHOLASTIC YEAR” is devoted to the Interests of the Students, and will be issued weekly, at $2 50 per annum, payable in advance.
Students of the University of Notre Dame, and the Pupils of St. Mary’s Academy, maj- obtain the Scholastic Year at the reduced nite of $1 00 per annum.
Contributions must always be accompanied with name of author, otherwise no attention will be gven to them.
All business letters should be addressed to
IV. IL SPALDING, Cor. Secretary,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Rev. A. LEMONNIER, S. S. C., Director.
SURVEYING.
There is no doubt that the mathematical sciences do not develop a more important branch of necessary knowledge than surveying. In fact, history tells us that it was the need of mankind in this particular that first gave birth to the study of abstract geometry, (as the very name “geometry”—the measurement of land, indicates,) just as arithmetic has mainly arisen from the complication of pecuniary matters, and of different currencies, weights and measures in use among men; and algebra (with the higher branches of analysis) from the requirements of astronomy. Astronomy itself (if we except the curiosity of mankind in regard to the superstitions of judicial astrology, which had more than half to do with the advancement ot the real science) is mainly valuable as it is the science of time, and the division of time into years and months and days.' So that all the chief branches of mathematics are merely accessories to the great science of life, as applied to the Art of Living.
But some will say, one can get through life very well without any thing more than a little arithmetic. Very true, but it is because you use the geographical works, the almanacs, and the interest-tables that have been prepared by others.
To a mind without reflection these things may appear very dispensable, but we can hardly realize the state in which we should be if all knowledge of these were allowed to perish from amongst us; and moreover, in mathematics emphatically, a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. A man who would undertake to settle a difference between his neighbors in regard to the position of the fence between their respective estates, would very likely rob one of them to the unjust advantage of the other, if he were not thoroughly conversant with the minutiae of magnetic variation. And if he were under the common impression that the sun is always due south, at noon, or that the polar star is always due north, by running a division-line on that supposition he might be guilty of a similar fraud. If' it were not for the correction in the calendar, which it took the nicest mathematical skill to effect, we might be keeping Easter in the middle of harvest, and Christians would be obliged to attend to their paschal duties at the busiest season of the year. The honest and affectionate emigrant, whose industry has enabled him to send home assistance to his aged parents in the land of his birth, would find himself much embarrassed in the exercise of this filial duty, if he were obliged to seek out a trustworthy friend who would undertake to convey his proposed remittance to them in the form of gold and silver. But why should we speak of emigrants to any distant land, as long as we suppose an ignorance of the figure of the earth, and of the art of navigation with the mathematical principles upon which they depend ? In fact, we cannot mention any phase of modern civilized life, which does not involve a proficiency in mathematical science, expressed or implied,	:
The place which the mathematics holcJ/jin all systems of education is due rather to the mental discipline their study affords, than to the’practi-cal use to which they will be put by the individ
2
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
ual in after life. However, there is no doubt • that a go'od knowledge of mathematics will, on many occasions, elevate a man in society above his fellows. As land becomes more valuable, exact lines of division will become more important, and important enough they are already to be the occasion of numerous quarrels and lawsuits between neighbors. The man who has knowledge sufficient to command the respect and confidence of the contending parties, may often exercise the benevolent office of peace-maker, and thus become an invaluable member of society. Apart from its unquestionable usefulness, surveying is perhaps the most pleasing study of any of the severer sciences, and the most satisfactory in its results. It has been found eminently so by the class of the present year, who, having formed themselves into a regular corps, with the principles of division of labor and rotation in office, have accomplished results hitherto unparalleled in the mathematical history of Notre Dame.
The officers of the present week are as follows: Chief Engineer, T. O’Mahony; Signal, H. B. Keeler; Field, Notes, S. B. Hibben; Offsets, 0. K. Hibben; Hind Chainman, H. L. Eisenman; Fore Chainman, J. Winterbotham; Station-keeper, W. A. Walker. Every week a rotation takes place by which the station-keeper becomes chief engineer, and the other offices follow in succession. By this method every member of the class becomes acquainted with all the details of the operation. The system of cooperation and division of labor has enabled the Class to do an incredible amount of execution in a comparitively short space of time. Among the various surveys accomplished by the class we may mention the following :	'
y 2. A survey of the grounds attached to St. Jo-j/seph’s Novitiate, undertaken at the express request of the Rev. Director. These grounds, embracing every variety of hill and valley, woodland and meadow, with vineyard, orchard, garden, pleasure grounds and graveyard, besides a great deal of marshy land lying by the shores of the lake, were surveyed by the rectangular method, and the buildings located afterwards by triangulation. Plots of this extensive survey were drawn on a large scale by the members of the Class, and it is needless to say met with the approbation of the Rev. Director of the Novitiate, and all who saw them.	•
2.	A field near the lime-kilns was surveyed from two stations within it, rather as a Class-exercise
I than as a regular survey, for the proposed change
in the direction of a road which forms one side of the field, will make it a different place in a few months.
3.	The survey of a vast and irregular tract of ground lying near the old Indian burying-place, •and whose area had long been a subject of controversy between Brother Paulinus and those who assist him on the farm. This subject of dispute has been set at rest forever by the labors of the Surveying Class of 1868. The work (which would have taken some of our former classes a month to accomplish) was effected (owing to their perfect organization and zeal) by the present Class in the short space of one afternoon.
4.	But the most extensive survey, and that upon which the Class founds its chief ’’claim to superiority, is a vast system of triangulation, extending over a considerable portion of the surrounding country, and by which have been calculated the distances and locations of the principal institutions in the neighborhood. We give some of the results as matters of general interest. The distances, calculated in miles, furlongs and rods, and, true to within five rods, are to be considered, as straight “bee-lines” between the localities, and not as the distance on the roads, except in the few instances in which there happens to be a straight road between the two points: The distance from Notre Dame University to the
m. f. n»s.
Railroad Depot, South Bend, is	2	5	30
To Court House, South Bend,	2	0	25
St. Joseph’s Academy,	2	2	25
Northern Indiana College,	2	6	10
First turn in the road, going to town, 1 1	35
Chapel in the Graveyard,	4	25
St. Mary’s Academy,	7	30
The Missionary’s Home,	1	35
Residence of Prof. Howard,	4	35
Mr.' Chalfant’s Farm house,	4	35
The new house lately erected in New Dublin by Mr. P. Talbot is exactly a mile from the College.	.
The next survey which the Class proposes to undertake, will include a portion of Cottin’s creek. We remember when, in the times of the old “ Progress," it was considered a good joke to talk of surveying Cottin’s creek, the serpentine direction of that classic stream being considered suffi-ient to dismay the stoutest-hearted surveyor. However, what former Classes would wince at, (and justly,) the present Class considers only as amusement. We shall perhaps be able soon to give our readers a further account of our success.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	3
N. B. Rev. Father Superior, when he learns the public services rendered by the Surveying Class, will no doubt deliberate on the propriety of offering them a free lunch, to which they have certainly as good a claim as certain noisy individuals whom we could mention. He may perhaps be afraid that the delicate sensibilities of the Class would be wounded J»y such an offer, but we beg respectfully to remove his scruples on that point. We may add, in conclusion, that the services rendered to Bro. Peter by two of the most prominent members of this Class, in his present great work of laying out the^park in front of the college, have drawn from him the most profuse (and at the same time judicious) expressions of commendation. Mathejiaticus.
Tiie Indiasi.
Let us for a few moments, dear reader, go back in spirit, on the tide of time, and contemplate America in her original state. America, with her blooming prairies, her trackless forests, her roaring cataracts, her mighty rivers, her beautiful and extensive lakes—and her roaming, innocent inhabitant the Indian,—now presents to us a scene unequaled in grandeur and sublimity by any other part of the habitable globe. Here we see nature in her most perfect state; her glorious works enjoyed by the sole possessor of the soil, the Indian, who roamed undisturbed over the country, engaged in his innocent employment— hunting. In this state America existed when the white man set his foot upon her shores. Strange and important are the changes which the white man has produced in America. With a feigned smile" of love and protection upon his deceitful countenance, he approaches the uninstructed Indian, while, at the same time, he is dishonestly depriving him of his territory.
By deception and fraud the white man has succeeded in driving the Indian beyond the waters of the Mississippi; and, judging from the past, we may justly conclude that before many years roll by, he will have driven him to the very borders of the Pacific. Although weshould rejoice over the rapid and irresistible march of civilization, still we should mourn over the extirpation^: the poor unenlightened Indian, who once possessed in peace and happiness the beautiful prairies of America, which the white man now cultivates.
Although I am not myself a politician, still I
cannot refrain from expressing an idea, that suggests itself at this moment, and which has a connection with the subject upon which I am writing, it is this: our Representatives in Congress have been, for the last year; endeavoring to elevate the negro servant above the white man, while they have been during the same time doing all in their power to exterminate the poor Indian. Oh! how can human beings become so corrupt as to extend over the Indian, whom they, have deceived, the hand of extermination, while at the same time they are extending to a being who is evidently inferior to the Indian the hand of love and protection!
The poor untutored savage may now lay aside his tomahawk, his bows, his arrow’s and his spears, and, building a barge, as is his custom, on important occasions, chant with all the solemnity which the occasion demands, his last war-song. Peace and happiness are no longer his. The soil over which he roamed in his savage innocence is now being cultivated,—the plow turning to the sun the decayed bones of his ancestors.
-----
derivations.
. As derivations are becoming fashionable in the Scholastic Yeae, we mildly suggest the following:
The sine in Trigonometry is so called, because it is a sine qua non.
Cosine is a corruption of Cousin—from the relationship it bears to the sine.
The word “ swamp” is derived ex sud amplitu-tudine, on account of the great size of the cedar swamps when America was first discovered. The long termination fell off in the course of time like the tail of a tadpole, and sudamp' became swamp by apocope and crasis.	'
The word “ marsh,” however, is derived from the French, parcequ' on ne peut pas y marcher. This is like the Latin lucus, d non lucendo.
■	‘ Paxgloss.
The quarterly. Bulletins will be sent to the parents during the course of next week, and the Certificates of good Conduct and Improvement in Class will be issued to the students during the same week.	•
The Honorable mentions for the next number will be made in the Classes of Moral Philosophy, Logic, Rhetoric, Composition, Grammar, Orthography and Penmanship.
4	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
LOCAL.
Improvements at Notre Dame.
/ ------------------- 7
With pleasure we notice the vast improvement which is effecting in the grounds in front of the
College. The garden, which was last week an almost indescribable figure, is now a beautiful semicircle. On Monday, Bro. Peter, with the assistance of Messrs. Eisenman and Winterbotham, who are both members of the Scientific Department, laid out with mathematical precision avenues through the park. Visitors to Notre Dame, at the Annual Commencement,—which, by the way, is not far distant,—will be astonished to see the large field, where last year stood the Manual Labor School and several other old buildings, cleared off and converted into a beautiful park.
The Examination.
With 'feelings of joy and pleasure we bid adieu to grim old Winter and welcome the return of Spring. Spring has come at last, bringing with it as usual its green mantle and bloming flowers, its base-ball matches, and last, though not least in importance,—it brings to the students of Notre Dame the Annual Examination. Yes, ere two short months roll by, this important event will have transpired, and many of the students of Notre Dame who are now busily engaged reviewing their labors of the preceding flight months, will then bid farewell to their “Alma Mater,” and go into the busy world to reap the benefits of the education which they have acquired. Students who have spent their time, unprofitably look forward to the Examination with feelings of fear and regret, while those who, knowing the value of time have studied diligently during the year, look forward to it with pleasure and assurance of success.
------’
The blessing of the Big Bell seems to be definitely postponed to a year hence, when it shall form a part of the ceremonies which will be occasioned by the Twenty-Fith Annual Commencement, or Silver Jubilee of the University of Notre Dame. We need not say that this great festival will even outshine the famous 31st of May, 1863.
Prof. Von'Weller's Last Painting.
We do not go into the parlor very often, and therefore we hope our readers will excuse us for not having mentioned before a recent great addition to its objects of interest. We allude to the “Crucifixion” lately painted by our resident artist, Prof. Carl A.’B. Von Weller. We are not skilled enough in the terms of art criticism to attempt anything like a description of this sublime picture; we can do nothing but gaze and admire, and we advise our readers to go and do the same. It is not, like many of the fine religious pictures the college possesses, a mere copy. It is an original composition, and bears witness to the correctness and elevation of the composers taste, judgment and feeling. The light in which it hangs at present is not favorable to its merits by daytime; but as it was painted particularly to be seen by candle or by lamp light, our friends may obtain a good view of it, by visiting the parlor when it is lighted up in the evening.
-------------
St, Cecilia Philomathean Literary Association.
The twenty-sixth regular meeting of the above flourishing and excellent Association, was held Sunday evening, May 3d. Owing to the very limited space of time allowed for business, this report will necessarily be short. Before the usual preliminaries, two excellent essays were read by members for admission, Masters P. O’Connell and F. Kaiser; the former wrote on “ Patriotism,” the latter on the “ Hardships and Pleasures of a Student.” After hearing them, the society unanimously voted them in.
The Monitor, Master R. H. McCarthy, having resigned his office, Master H. B. Moody was appointed to fill his place, and Master F. Ingersoll was appointed Assistant Director of Reading. After these and other appointments, an essay on “Alexander the Great” was read by Master D. J. Wile. Master A. Wetherbee followed in a well-delivered comic speech, “Pleading Extraordinary.” Both were well received by the Society;—the meeting then adjourned.
At the preceding meeting, Master J. Wilson read a splendid essay on “ Education and its Accomplishments;” Master M. Foote, also, read one on “ Death.” At the same meeting a vice-president of the Dramatic Department, Master A. Murphy, and a Seargent-at-arms, Master J. J. Raggio, were elected.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	5
Additional Students at Kotre Paine.
MAY 4TH.
Samuel S. Granger,	Chicano, Illinois.
O 1	O’
ffSonorable SSention.
Nat. Philosophy: W. T. Johnson, S. Hibben, J. McBride, H. B. Keeler.
Chemistry 'A H. B. Keeler, E. E. Hull, S. Hibben, W. T. Johnson.
Botany: H. B. Keeler, E. Pillars, J. McBride.
Geoloyy: H. B. Keeler, J. McBride, S. Hibben, E. E. Hull, E. S. Pillars, E. Donhoff.
Mineralogy: H. Keeler, J. McBride, E. Pillars.
Anatomy and Surgery: Geo. Yeakel, H. D-Rod man, A. M. Owen, E. V. Donhoff.
Drawing: S. Teats, J. Scbmclz, J. Flanigen, J. Broderick, L. Hays, H. Bird.
GERMAN.
First Class, Isf Div., (Sr.) : H. L. Eisenman, V. Hackman, D. Wile, A. Hoffman, M. Foote.
First Class, 2d Div., (Sr.): A. B. White, W. Rhodes, W. O’Donnell, L. Botto, R. McCarthy, J. Gibbons, R. 31. Short, L. Garcin, J. Albert P. Cochrane.
First Class, 2d Div., (Jr.) : J. Staley, J. Duffy, C. Enes, F. Clerget, J. Rumely, G. Bower.
Second Class, (Jr.): E. Callaghan, J. McHugh, J. Schmelz, C. Duffy, J. Broderick, W. Reynolds, R. Staley, C. Humbert.
Third Class, 1st Div., (Sr.) : J. H. LeCompte, J. Rogers, W. Walker, C. J. Hertich, R. G. Heffernan.	'
Third Class, 2d Div, (Sr.) : J. Zahm, D. Fitzgerald, G. Atkinson, T. Watson.
Third Class, 1st Div., (Jr.)—Improvement in Grammar: J. Shannon, L. Wilson, J. Dunn, H. Beakey, J. Klein, J. McGuire.
Improvement in Theme: L. Wilson, J. Shannon, J. Klein, J. Dunn, J. McGuire, L. Hilsendegen, H. Beakey, E. Wile, F. Mier.
Fourth Class,—Improvement in Grammar: H. B. Keeler, J. Wilson, J. Fitzharris, L. Hayes, W. H. Smith.
Improvement in Theme: J. Wilson, H. B. Keeler, J. Coffey, W. H. Smith, G. Fletcher, S. McCurdy.
FRENCH.
lsi Class, (Sr.): D. Wile, W. Waldo, F. Clerget, H. Beakey, M. Mahoney.
2d Class: J. Campbell, J.Rogers, R.McCarthy.
3d Class: P. O’Connell, E. Lafferty, V. Hackman, T. Duval.
MUSIC.
Piano, (Sr.): J. A. O’Reilly, J. Garhartstine, C. Fuhrer, A. O’Reiily, J. Dietrich, J. Conradt, J. Edwards, J. Vocke, J. Lecompte, J. Hilsendegen.
FWwi, (Sr.): J. W. Watts, 0. J. Hertich, W. G. Fletcher.
Guitar, (Sr.): J. McBride, J. Lafferty, N. S. Wood, J. A. Rowell, J. C. Keveney.
Flute, (Jr.): Perry Weaver, A. 31. Owen.
Band: J. W. Watts, J. A. Dickinson, A. Hoffman, N. S. Wood, J. Lecompte, C. Hertich, R. L. Aikin, W. Walker.
Choir: Soprano—V. Hackman, C. Hutchings, B. Heffernan, T. Dunn, R. Staley; Alto—J. Cre-voisier, T. White, F. Nichols, 31. Foote; Tenor— J. Dickinson, J. 3IcBride, F. Heitman, N. S Wood; Bass—J. Watts, F. Pape, A. O’Reilly, 31. Ryan, J. Lafferty.	.
Piano, (Jr.): E. Hutchings, R. Staley, J. 3IcHugh, F. Nicholas, R. Broughton, C. Hutchings.
Violin, (Jr.): J. Rumely, P. White, J. Stalqy, H. 3Iorancy, 31. Foote.
Guitar, (Jr.) : 0. Dodge.
Singing Class, (Jr.): J. McGinnis, S. Waters, D. S. Bell, J. Drum, M. Foote.
Piano (Minims): N. Trussell, D. Cooney.
Spring.
The sweet name of Spring once more vibrates to our ears and awakens fond hopes of a pleasant future in the heart of every man. The very name of Spring possesses charms, while all around you presents a pleasing aspect. A few days ago, nature seemed to repose, wrapped up in silence in a death-like shroud, and scarce was there a being to greet you on the highways. The fields lay desolate, the forests bleak and shattered, stripped of all verdure by the cold piercing breeze of winter.
Behold, now, the pleasing change! As the earth revolves in her annual course, how plain she marks the rolling time. What artist can follow her course to paint her varied colors? Who can picture her immaculate shroud, or encircle her brow with laurels ever green? That Hand alone -that rules the skies, to whom all nature in concert turns, and sun and moon and earth and stars obey.
To admire nature’s changes, look anywhere around you, for there lies, mouldering, the foliage that once decked the landscape and filled the air with precious odor. How much the seasons re
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
semble the life of man!—for Spring recalls to our memories the fond, endearments of our guileless childhood,—those happy days when we knew no toil. Autumn resembles old age, when life grows dim, and the joy and merriment of youth have fled, and death stands knocking at the door.
One link added to the chain of time. One dear one gone, and numbered among those that were. The old phcenix, indeed, has finished her life’s career; now mouldering lies her frame, while, from her dust, comes forth one of the royal race, beautiful and fair. She casts her fruitful wings over the fair face of creation, and nourishes every plant with costly balm.
Of the four seasons, Spring seems to me the most beautiful; for, walk where you will, the gentle breeze of Spring calmly fans your face. Walk through the forest, the mountain or the vale, by the brook or the river, the field .or the lawn, nature ushers in beauty before you.
. The wild fowl that were forced by the cold northern blast to abandon their forests and to roam southward, now return with joy to their native home, as nature smilingly guides them along.
The peasant, with rapturous delight treads the rural plains, as the soft breeze of Spring comes laden with sweets to caress the deserted ' landscape ; while the sun goes up in his kingly course and reflects his lustre on the earth, that every spot may teem with verdure. He blesses the Hand that causes nature to smile on the prairie, the woodland, the vale and the wild.
------<e>----
Skedaddle.
The word Skedaddle having been ushered into existence in the effervescence of the moment, in a hurried wTay, and to serve a special purpose, lacked the vitality necessary to secure for itself a firm and enduring foot-hold in the great repertory of the English vocabulary. Hence it is that after an immoderate use made of it during three or four years, it is now well-nigh dead—dead of sheer exhaustion! It is really to be regretted that such a fine euphonious word (bless the man who first tried to introduce it into the language: “ he deserves well of his country!”) should be allowed to escape naturalization, and return to the language of its origin. At least, tee owe it a few brief parting, words; for many a time, it served to convey much merriment over the feats of
the discomfited ... Slcedaddlers 1 Then, before Skedaddle skedaddles forever into the land of the Hellenes, let us attempt to draw its true lineage, rehabilitate, its not dishonorable name, and relate its advent on American soil in its quaint English dress.
If memory serves right, the word Skedaddle was first uttered in the land of the sunny South by some ungracious barbarian, a true descendant of the redoubtable Trojans of old, who, in about the year 1861, witnessing a Bull (whether that .Bull belongs to the class of animals known in Natural History by the name of Bos Taurus, or to a totally different class,- we cannot well determine) RuN-ning through the camp of an affrighted and panic struck enemy, cried out in a tone of frenzy: “ They skedaddle ! they skedaddle !!” They who ? they what ? .. . No one there present who heard the exclamation could make out what the Trojan meant, not being acquainted w’ith the Messrs. Xenophon, Thucydides & Co. Yet they all plainly saw wThat terrible havoc the Bull had done in his magnificent Run. The" fact is that the Barbarian was so agreeably struck by the strange scene before him that he could find no word in the English language forcible enough to express his feelings. From that memorable day, the word Skedaddle received, by universal cofi-sent, the right of citizenship.
But—extra jocum—what is the etymology of Skedaddle ? It is derived from the Greek verb Skedazo, also Skedannuo—wi, to scatter, to disperse, in speaking of a routed army, (cf. Thucydides, cap. iv, 56, 112, et al., Didot’s ed.; also Anacreon, iv, ult., Lipsiae ed.) But the word plainly conveys the idea—when more fully analysed—that the scattering or dispersing of the enemy is made without disorder and without haste. By Skedaddle is therefore to be understood a dignified and well-covered retreat and not a precipitate flight, which latter sense seems to have been the meaningtbat people in general have given to it.
A disgraceful and precipitate flight would be expressed in Greek by he phuge, or he trope : “ Pheugousin ana kratos,” they fly with all their strength.” [Xenophon]. (See also Cyropmdia, Lib. iii cap. iii v 63, Owen’s Ed.)
The Greek expression “ epi skelos anagein,” signifies the same thing. as the Latin “ re-eerke pedem” or “ pedetentim,” to retire leisurely—step by step—the face against the enemy (Xenophon’s Anabasis, Lib. v, cap. iv, Didot’s ed. Also in Aristophanes, 383), and expresses the very same idea as “ epi poda anachorein,” (in
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR. ’	7
some editions anageen), to retreat without turning around, i. e. going 'backwards. (Xenophon’s Cyrop. Lib. iii, cap. iii, v 69, Owen’s ed.) “Tyro.”
The Words of Great Ulen.
1st. “ Thou, Solomon, my son, know thou the God of thy father; I served him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the Lord searchest all hearts. If thou seek Him, He will be fond of thee; but if thou forsake Him, He will cast thee off forever.”—King David.
2d. “Adieu, dear children 1 may your lives be happy! Carry my last reminiscence to your mother. And you, my faithful friends, those absent as well as those present, receive this, my last fare; well! May you live in peace!”—Cyrus.
3d. The kings reject my maxims. Since I am no longer useful on the earth I ought not to regret leaving it.”—Confucius.
4th. “What are you doing? I wonder at you. Oh! what has become of your virtue ? was it not the fear of falling into these weaknesses that I sent away the women ? I have always heard that we ought to die peaceably and blessing the gods. Be at ease, I beg of you, and show more firmness and resolution.”—Socrates.
5th. “Lord, lay not this sin to their charge!” —St. Stephen.
6th. “I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness.”—St. Paul.
7th. “Now, indeed, I begin to be a disciple; . I weigh neither visible nor invisible things in comparison of an interest in Jesus Christ.”—St. Ignatius.
Sth. “ O God, the Father of Thy beloved Son, Jesus Christ, by whom I have received the knowledge of Thyself; 0 God of angels and powers, of every creature, and of all the just who live in Thy presence, I thank Thee, that Thou hast' graciously vouchsafed, this day and this hour, to allot me a poition amongst the number of martyrs. 0, Lord, receive me, ana make me a com panion of the saints in resurrection, through the merits of our great High Priest, the Lord Jesus Christ, I praise and adore Thee, through Thy beloved Son, to whom, with Thee and Thy Holy Spirit, be all honor and glory both now and forever. Amen.”—St. Polycarp.
9th. “If my Maker please, who formed me out
of nothing, I am willing to leave the world and go to Him—my soul desires to see Christ, my King, in His beauty,—Glory to the Father, to the Son and to the Holy Spirit.”—Yenerable Bede.
10th. “ Oh Gabriel! How much better would it have been for thee, and how much more would it have promoted thy soul’s welfare, if thou hadst never been raised to the pontificate, but been contented to lead a quiet and religious life in thy monastery.”—Pope Eugenius.
11th. “May God never forsake me!”—Pascal.
12th. “And must I then die? Will not my riches save me ? I could purchase the kingdom, if that would prolong my life : Alas! there is no bribing death. When my nephew, the Duke of Bedford, died, I thought my happiness and my authority greatly increased: but the Duke of Gloucester’s death raised me in fancy to the level and birth of kings: and I thought of nothing but accumulating still greater wealth, to enable me, at length, to purchase the triple crown. Alas! how are my hopes disappointed! wherefore, oh, my friends! let me earnestly beseech you to pray for me, and recommend my departing soul to God.”—Cardinal Beaufort.
13th. “I had provided, in the course of life, for everything, except death; and now, alas! I am to die although entirely unprepared.”— Casar Borgia.
14th. “Had I but served my Godas diligently as I have served the king, He would not have given me over in my gray hairs. But this the just reward that I must receive for my incessant pains and study, not regarding my service to God, but only to my prince.”—Cardinal Wolsey.
15th. “I have lived to see five sovereigns, and have been privy-counselor to four of them. Ihave seen the most remarkable things in foreign parts, and have been present at most state transactions for the last thirty years: and I have learned from the experience of so many years, that seriousness is the greatest wisdom, temperance the best physic, and a good conscience the best estate. If I were to live again, I would change the court for a cloister, my privy-counsellor’s bustle for a hermit’s retirement, and the whole life I have lived in the palace, for an hour’s enjoyment of God in the chapel. All things now forsake me, except my God, my duty and my prayers.”—Sir John Hlason.	.
[to be contested.]	.
Artemus Ward said that the man who wrote “I’m|saddest when I sing,” was a fool to sing much.
8
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
ARRIVALS.
April 29th.
Miss Jennie Craul,	Lyons, New York.
TABLES OF HONOR.
Senior Department.—Misses Mary Tripp, B. Walton, Anna Adams, L. Rettig, Clara Foote, K. Carpenter, L. Lewis' Ella Ewing, Agnes Mulhall, , Elmira Smith, C. Davenport, F. North.
< Junior Department.—Misses M. Sherland, Amelia Boyles, Helen Sprochnle, L. Niel, M. O’Meara, ‘ C. North, Ida Furbish, A. Byrnes, Agnes Longley, J. Walton, K. Foreman, Leonora Mills, Rose Carroll.
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Class.—Misses C. and L. Plimpton, ' H.-JBrooks, M. Forrester, K. Doran, L. Murray, . Florence Alspaugh.
First Senior Class.—Misses K. Livingston, K. Cunnea,L. andL. Tong, Emma Longsdorf, Eunice . Crouch, C. Wolfe, E. Pool.
Second, Senior Class.—Misses S. Rooney, Mary Caraher, Anna Cunnea, L. Lyons, Mary Morrill, Iola Conway, K Graham, Virginia Brown, L. Mc-Manman, M. Walton, Frances Gittings, Emma Conan, Christina Thomson, Sarah Gleeson, M. Taber, M. Barnett, M. Sterling, Teresa Stapleton, Ophelia Brady, Mary Claffey, Alice Radin, Emma Carr, B. Millington, E. Howard, M. Noel.
Third Senior Class.—Misses Amanda Sissons, Leonena and Louisa Leoni, Ida Reshore, L. Bicknell, J. Murray, N. Simms, K. Connor, Augusta Sturgis, Rose Joslin, Belle Gardner, M. Toberty, H. Niel, E. Longwell, Julia Walker.
First Intermediate.—Misses L. Cummerford, M. Simms, Mary Rooney, A Wiley, Josephine and Esther Lonergan, Julia Gittings, Mary Hally, Mary Oechtering, Clara Casteeter, Harriet Craul, Nora Sherburn, F. Morse.
Second Intermediate Class.—Misses Anna Clark, Anna Boyles, M. Walker.
First Junior Class.—Misses A. Woods, M. Sissons, Mary Clark, A. Metzger, Anna Garrity, L. Jones..
-'Theppening^of hay? ~
This brightest month of the fairest season in the year, was opened on Thursday eveningat St. Mary’s by a procession to the shrine of Our Lady of Peace. Starting from the Chapel of Loretto and singing the Litany of the Blessed Virgin, it marched until in front of the statue above men-tioned^ '"wlien~Hie”"“ Regina Cmli Ltetare” was sung, and the candles borne by those in the pro-cession-were lighted. This was just as the drapery of twilight had fallen over the landscape, and the picture presented was indescribably lovely. The glancing of banners, the sparkling of lights, the pure white veils of the Novices, the Children of Mary, and the Children of the Holy, Angels,, gleaming in the changing aspect of the proces-' sion as it wound through the grape arbor and before the illuminated shrines, was none the less charming because that it was the repetition of what has happened so many times before, and what was then occurring the world over, in honor of Mary, the peerless type of all that is gracious and noble,'alb that*is lovable and true in woman.
Returned from the procession, the members of the Convent and the Academy gathered in the Chapel of St. Michael, where the Blessed Virgin’s altar, tastefully arranged -above the main altar, seemed to unite its mute eloquence with that of their harmonious hymns. A most appropriate and interesting instruction was then given by Very Rev. Father Provincial, followed by the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, and the Month of May was duly inaugurated.
FESTIVAL OF THE INVENTION OF THE HOLY CROSS -
Sunday, May 3d, being the commemorative of the Finding of the Holy Cross by St. Helena, mother of Constantine the’Great, Very Rev. Father Provincial gave a most lucid and persuasive sermon on the claims of the Holy Cross to our homage. Then followed the impressive ceremony of venerating the Cross.
SUNDAY EVENING.
The compositions read in the -Study-Hall on Sunday evening were one from the First Senior Class, “It must be True,.” by Miss K. Livingston, and another from the Graduating Class, “Why stand ye here all the day idle ?” by Miss M. Tripp.