The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE JnTEJ\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS,
“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
Volums VI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 18, 1873.	Number 19.
Canadian Corraspondeacs.
It gives us great pleasure to hear from our friends in the Dominion. We will publish, next week, another letter from Montreal, giving an account of their fine Exhibition. We have heard indirectly that several of our Academies, the one in Cincinnati especially, have given creditable proofs of the literary and musical abilities of-their students; but as they have not deemed it proper to send us an account thereof we have published none.
We send wannest greeting to our froz m-up friends anc correspondents in New Brunswick, with whose backslid-ings on the slippery ways old Winter gives us we cin appreciatively and feelingly sympathize, for we have done such a considerable amount of sitting down promptly, in unexpected places and at unforeseen times, that we don’t care about sitting down at all any more,—not much, any how. Besides, we have had the constant ringing of sleigh-bells in our ears since the 11th of last November, and a fair prospect, from the piles of beautiful snow that obstruct our paths and fill up our highways, of hearing the bells, bells, bells, jingling bells, for two months to come. We presume this number of the Scholastic will reach the hyperborean latitude of the Blue Noses next July, as the locomotives will likely be thawed out by that time. Our Wisconsin fiiends are so cozy in their Establishment iu Watertown that they seem to be enjoying themselves, “the world forgetting,” but not “by the world forgot;’’ however, toe won’t badger them.
St. Laurent, Canada East. 1 January 10,1873. j Editor Scholastic—Dear Sir; On the 21st of December last there was a general Ordination in the pro-Cath-edral at Montreal. The venerable Bishop Bourget offi-/ ciated, and the church was crowded, though it was quite dark when the ceremonies commenced. Twelve candidates received the tonsure; nineteen, minor orders; eleven subdeaconship; six, deaconship; and thirteen were promoted to the holy order of priesthood. Eleven priests belonged to the United States, and two were Oblates of the - diocese of Montreal. Among the subdeacons are the Rev. Eliseus Labbe. C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline at St. Laurent, and the Rev. Paul Larochelle, C S.C., Assistant Prefect of Discipline. The Rev. William Kenneally, of Boston, Mass., student of theology and Profissor of Latin in the College, was ordained deacon, and the Rev. Messrs; M. J. Bruton and John Tuite, of the Diocese of Providence, Rhode Island, were promoted to the holy order of priesthood.
-Those gentlemen had completed their theological studies at St. Laurent, and during their sojourn amongst us had endeared.themselves to all with whom they came in;coh--.
tact. They have gone to enter upon the arduous duties of the Mission, and we hope their labors will be crowned with success.
On the Feast of the N itivity, Mr. Moses J. McGarry, of Nova Scotia, for several years a respected student of St. Laurent, took the saittane and entered the Novitiate as a Salvatorist.
The holidays were fully enjoyed by all the students, spiritually, intellectually and physically.
Yours respectfully,	R. S. •
“TOi Sina Litaris Mors Est”
At this advanced age of refinement and culture all na- -tions concur in the truth of the old saying that “ in knowledge is power,” and the day is at h ml when the position of a nation in the scale of nations does not depend upon the glory of her arms, but rather upm her commerce and institutions of learning—the arts of peace. This is what the inquiring and ever aspiring mind of min has brought about.
When we read the history of the human family, we find them making little or no progress in the way of civilization and rednement before the invention of letters; but there seems rather to have been a retrograde movement on the part of m inkind, departing farther and farther from the will of God, and plunging deeper and deeper into vice and barbaris n. But the alphabet appears, and thenceforward we find the humn mind gradually aspiring and finding truth, until Plato declares the immortality of the soul, and the wise Socrates walks the streets of Athens; the worship of the gods begins to be shaken, and an alt ir then erected bore the inscription: “To the Unknown---God,”—whom it was reserved for the Apostle Paul to declare to the Athenian people.
The Athenians were, indeed, a refined people; and never has a laugu ige or a literature attained a higher degree of perfection than in this very country. In almost every de-partmentof humanscienceshepresents models—statesmen, ' generals, poets, philosophers, mathematicians and histori- • ans. And even though the genius of the Grecian muse has departed, she still extends her influence. Athens was • once, though conquered by the Roman arms, looked up to as the centre of refinement; but those days were days when Greek literature was in its prime, when, says Quintillian,a 1 single age produced ten orators at Athens. Yet, though' ; Athens no longer holds her supremacy, the influence of her former genius will continue to modify the literature of : nations to the end of time/ How different is the Athens of. to-day I . No longer is she thecentre of the arts and sei-—
140	THE SCHOLASTIC.
ences. Times have changed, and we seldom hear her mentioned. No longer is the voice of Demosthenes heard in her council chamber. Aristotle and Plato are no more. Xenophon, Thucydides and Herodotus are names belonging to the mighty past. The people no longer gather in crowds of twenty or thirty thousand to witness the tragedies of a Sophocles or the comedies of an Aristophanes. All those geniuses who served to breathe over Greece an air of classic serenity have returned to the dust; and she no longer rules the world." But so"16ng as'the literary muse of Greece continued to flourish, so long did Greece remain the centre of learned men, and Athens the schoolhouse of nations.
The effect of letters is here very apparent, and it serves to point out to us their real value. Literature is an essential characteristic of a civilized nation, and the more letters are cultivated the higher will be the degree of refinement.
. Difficult indeed would it be for us to pic ure to ourselves a.people without letters,so accustomed have we become to partake of the pleasures which they afford; withoutthem each age sould have to commence almost where the previous age began, instead of continuing the work from ' where the last left it; science would ever remain in its infancy, for tradition which will not carry, forward from generation.to generation even the simplest fact, of history, cannot be supposed to bear facts which relate to abstract science with scientific accuracy. - Talent, indeed, men may have, but it requires the good of letters to make its mark.
.	“ No good of worth sublime will Heaven permit
; To light on man, as from the passing air;	'
.	The lamp of genius, though by nature lit, .
If not protected, prun’d and fed with care, Soon dies, or runs to waste with fitful glare.” ‘ Of this we .have but to open the pages of history and we will be convinced, for the name of no man shines there who has not, to some extent at least, cultivated his mind by means of letters.
“ As the uncultivated prairie bears a harvest • Heavy and rank, yet worthless to the world, So mind and heart, uncultivated, runs to waste; The noblest nature serving but to show A dense growth of passion’s deadly fruit.”
Gulliver.
: Notre Dame Geographic Expedition.
By Rail from Cork to Dublin.—Stations____Scenery along the Line.—Castles.—Bound
Towers.—Ruins.
Dublin, Ireland, November 6,1872.
Dear Scholastic :—We left Cork yesterday morning at ten o’clock by way of the Southern and Western Railroad and arrived here at half-past four on the same day. We boarded our train with feelings well calculated to make us enjoy to our heart’s content the varied scenery and ancient ruins that are said to be presented along this road. We had not long been settled down in our comfortably cushioned seats, when we were startled by the announcement of our arrival at Blarney Station, a mile and a half from which is the famous Blarney Castle already visited and described by us.
Near Mallow, the next station, we cross the Blackwater. Asevenand a half.mile.ride.conveys us to Buttevant, a
place well known for its ruins of ancient architecture, which are very celebrated. Six miles to the east are the remains of Kilcolman castle, in which Spenser composed his “ Faery Queene,” in 1589.
Moving rapidly on and admiring the picturesque landscapes that constantly opened to the view, Kilmallock came into sight, with its crumbling and once beautiful mansions reduced to a most deplorable condition, the sheltering places of the poor. Its principal attraction is the ruined Abbey of the same name, said to display the finest specimens of decoration and sculpture to be found in all the island.	-
At Knocklong, we did not stop, but “ rolling” slowly through it, we saw in the distance the maiket town of Hospital, founded by the Knights Hospitallers in the reign of King John. ” Limerick Junction,—Change cars for Waterford and Limerick.”
This cry of a railroad official caused a slight commotion amongst the passengers for the places designated as they prepared to alight from the cars.	•
We left in the distance the demesne of Dundrum and the Rock of Cashel, upon which stands the remains of an ancient castle and a round tower seme ninety edd feet high. Time did not permit us to gratify a desire to see these curiosities, so much admired by tourists; still, other ■ opportunities will present themselves before we reach Dublin.	.
Whilst wondering at the richness of this country in its interesting relics of bygone ages, we unconsciously raised our eyes, and the majestic ruins of the Gothic Abbey of Holy Cross greeted them in a surprising manner. This Abbey, founded in 1182, by Donald O’Brian, then King of Limerick, has many interesting stories connected with it, but which time and space will not permit us to repeat here.	'	■
The little market town of Thurles, the episcopal city of the Archbishop of Cashel, next presented itself, with the mouldering mins of its old Carmelite monastery, and its castle, once the property of the Knights Templars. The historical associations of the place aie also very interesting, as in its immediate vicinity are the scenes of several hard-fought battles at different periods of Ireland’s history.
Further on we passed Loughmore Castle, with its four strong towers, and referred for its origin to the times of Knights Templars, who gave the name to the adjoining ' town of Templemore.
Crossing the river Suir, we enter the Country Tipperary, and a ride of five miles brings us to Maryborough, the scene of a hotly contested battle in 5c0, between the factions of Leinster and Munster. We did not stop long, however, and were soon on our way to Portarlington, an ancient post-town.
Nothing of interest attracts the attention until we approach Monastereven, the next station, where is situated the Abbey of St. Even, nearly 1100 years old, in whose belfry swung the consecrated bell sworn upon on all solemn occasions. The Abbey is still in a good state of preservation, but we could not ascertain what became of its bell.
“ The City of Saints,”—Kildare,—with its moss-grown Cathedral and celebrated Chapel of St. Bridget. Our delay’ here being protracted,.we were afforded an opportunity for viewingquite critically* for the first time,one of?
T H E S CH ah A S TT C .	TUt
. the greatest of puzzles for antiquarians that the world has yet produced, and of which Ireland has an abundant store, —a round tower.
This tower can be seen from tbe cars, rising as it does to a height of 110 feet, and gives an appearance of solemn grandeur to the scene. Although nothing of consequence in themselves, these wonderful landmarks of Ireland’s remote history cannot but impress the beholder with admiration and curiosity, by reason of the mystery that shrouds their origin and use, for as yet all that can be said of them is but conjecture.
Proceeding on our way, we soon passed the Hill of Allen, the supposed locality that witnessed the scenes commemorated in the immortal poems of Ossian. The last station now remains to be reached, and after a patient waiting, the whistle of “ Down brakes,” revived us, when we saw that we were approaching Clondalkin. Near this ' town is one of the most perfect round towers in Ireland, much visited by tourists, but we could not stop, and hurried on to Dublin, arriving there at the time before mentioned. In our next we will write up Dublin and vicinity.
Yours sincerely,
Peregrinator.
Soil of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week preceding the given date.]
FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1873.
Senior Department.
F. Buter, W. Briant, C. Berdel, M. Bastorache, V. M. ’ Baca, J. Browne, P. Byrne, V. Baca P. Cooney, H. Cas-sid}r, W. Clarke, J. Claffey, T. Dundon, J. Devine, J. Eisenman, T. Flannigan, M. Foote, J. Gillen, E. Gambee, E. Graves, J. Gillespie, J. E. Hogan, E. Halpin, L. Hink-ston, J. Hand, F. Keenan, J. Kelly, F. Leffingwell, J. ’ McGlynn, E. Morancy, J. McDermott, D. Maloney, J. Murphy, T. Murphy, A. Mooney, J. McCormick, E. McSweeney, E. McLaughlin, J. Noonan, P. O’Meara, J. Rourke, G. Ruger, E. Spitley, G. Stack, F. Scrafford, C. Spears, S. Valdez, A. Taggart, W. Van’t Woud, G. Tobin, T. White, C. Walter, J. Wolfe, W. Wallace.
Junior Department.
F. Austin, W. Breen, C. Black, P. Brosseau, G. Berdel, C. Burger, J. Cirmody, J. Caren, J. Devine, W. Dexter, J. Dunn, F. Dowe, J. Danz, J. Daly, P. Daly, F. Egan, H. . Enneking, J. Ewing, W. Fletcher, G. Fliehmann, G. Gross, W. Gross, H. Hunt, J. Hanley, E. Holt, C. Hake, W. Hake, . J. Hogan, W. Haney, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, M. Hilliard, L. Hibben, R. Hutchings, A. Kleine, R. Kelly, A. Kreiter, W. Kinzie, L. Loser, R. Lewis, W. Meyer, F. McOsker, T. McGee, J. Mullarky, E. McMahon, S. McMahon, W. McMahon, J. Marks, S. Marks, E. Mohl, W. Morgan, E. Milburn, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, J. McHugh, F. Mulligan, J. McGinnis, L. Munn, J. Nevin, D. O’Connell, J. O’Connell, W. Pollard, A. Ried, C. Ried, C. Ruger, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, n. Shephard, U. Schaller, W. Schul-thies, J. Tobin. L. Whitaker, S. Wise, J. Wanbaugh, 0. Waterman, F. Weisenberger, J. Williams, H. Zuber.
Minim Department. .
H. Faxon, C. Faxon, A. Wetherbee, J. O’Meara; C.
Walsh, Ai Murphy, T. Nelson, E. Raymond, A. Koch, C. Parker, A. Miller, C. McKinnon, J. McMahon, J. Hilliard. J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
- Ths Lectors Season. -
On the evening of Tuesday last the second lecture of the course was delivered by Rev. J. C. Carrier, C. S. C., Professor of Natural Sciences in the University. The lecture, which had been much desired, was all that had been expected of it. The Rev. lecturer announced as the subject, of his course of lectures ‘tT-he_work, of the.six days of Creation.” In this, the first of the series, he could be expected to do little more than clear up the subject and prepare for a future development of it; for in this lecture he did not speak of.the subject proper, but'refuted-the arguments hurled against tbe Church'of God by atheists and unbelievers, as well as showing the necessity of a “ first Cause ” and refuting the slander and atheistic arguments of such as Darwin and his followers. “ Man could not have created himself;” “God, and God alone, creates." Man cannot of himself call into being or destroy one atom; this power belongs to the Most High. Nor does the Catholic Church oppose education and the study of the arts and sciences, as the Rev. lecturer most conclusively proved in his “ exordium.” The lecture was philosophical, yet simple; easily comprehended, yet deep. We are very desirous to hear Father Carrier finish his course, which he has so well begun.
This lecture, as was the first, was delivered in the Seniors’ study-hall. Many of the Reverend Clergy as well a« most of the Faculty were present. The lecture was wdl received by those present, and we hope those which are yet to come will be as worthy, of praise and admiration as the two already delivered.	E.:
St Cecilia EhUomataean.Associatioa.
The 19th regular meeting took place Saturday, Jan. 11, 1873. At this meeting Masters A. Ried and R. Lewis presented themselves for membership, and were unanimously elected. Essaysand declamations were next given. Among those deserving mention we may name L. Hibben and J. Langenderfer. After a special criticism on the New Year’s Entertainment, a vote of thanks was given to Bro. Camillus, Principal of the Junior Department, and Mark Foote, for kind favors received.	-
W. Fletcher, Secretary^.
Accident to Father Boyle, of Washington, D.C.— The many friends of Rev. F. E. Boyle, the esteemed pastor of St. Peter’s Church, will be pained to' learn that he met with quite a serious mishap. While going out of his residence to attend a sick call, he slipped and fell heavily on the granite steps sustaining such severe injuries that he was at once conveyed to Providence Hospital, where he yet remains under medical- treatment.- Fortunately, no bones were broken. He is gradually improving, and will, it is hoped, be able to resume his responsible duties in a few days.—Cor. Catholic Mirror.	• •
A man down East, is* so bow-legged that his tailor is obliged to use a circular saw in cutting hia pantaloOna^
i
T S C H O L A S T IC.
3<S
The $ehola$iic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
. All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TEBMS:	.
One year........................$2 00
One session (5 months).......... 1 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office. ”	'
. Gregorian. Chant.
Last year there "was quite a controversy about Plain Chant between some of the papers both in this countiy and England. The result in England has been that Gregorian Chant has been intioduced into some of the •churches to the exclusion of Modem Music. In this ■ country no apparent general result has been derived from the controversy, unless to make each party more confirmed in its opinion. In fact the position in which the most of our pastors find themselves is to have an easy Mass in modern style learned and executed by the choir, or to have no singing at all. This comes from another fact: that, even in the supposition that pastors wished to adopt the Gregorian Chant, ihey could find no choirs to sing it, because the books cannot be found and singers cannot be Lad.
\ We must therefore wait for many years before we may hope to find the true Ecclesiastical Chant introduced generally into the churches of this country.
But this is no reason why it should not be .introduced into churches like our own here at the College, where we can have both books and singers. _
Quite the contrary. .	.
We do not wish to enter into a discussion about the aesthetic merits of Ecclesiastical Music. Even in the best days of the Gregorian Chant men were divided in their opinions on Ihis subject. Some wished it in all its severe simplicity, others would discard it entirely, while others again, no doubt meaning well, did their utmost to corrupt it with spurious ornaments.
We do not enter on that subject. We wish to lay it aside and simply consider what is the duty of all those who have anything to do with public worship in churches like ours here, no matter what their individual opinion be on the subject of the aesthetic merits of Plain Chant.
It is their duty to have'the Gregorian Chant used in the -Church services, and as soon as practicable to have it used to the exclusion of all other music.
And this duty is evident, simply fiom the fact that the Church commands the Gregorian Chant to be used.
Other Music is tolerated. The Church is a good Mother, ' not. a stern stepmother; and when in matters like this "she finds that her commands are not obeyed because, as in . some places in this country, the state of music is too back. ward, the musical taste not sufficienty cultivated, she tol-• erates the modern substitute until the obstacles be removed by time and culture; or, as in the case of some churches in Europe and thiscountry too, the musical taste has become .so vitiated by the sensual music of the time, that both musicians and people consider the command a dead' letter,
she carefully avoids the greater evil of exciting open disobedience on the part of her naughty children, and does not absolutely forbid the modern st) le, but she renews by the voice of her Chief Pastor, and by the exhortations of her Bishops, her command to have the Gregorian used. Is it not evident, then, that the wish of the Church is to have the Gregorian Chant ?
Is it not equally evident that it is the duty of all who have anything to do with public worship to have the Gregorian Chant used when they have the means?
Certainly.
We intended to say something about that most praiseworthy of all our Societies, the St. Gregory, but our space is taken up this week, and we defer our remarks to a luture number.
Beading. N&wspjexs.
We do not object to the reading of Newspapers. -It is a necessity for the business man and for all who mix in society, but like other good things it may be abused. It is becoming a mania, and one of the bad effects of the abuse of newspaper reading is the tendency which such superficial reading has to make theyonng—and the mature, too— disinclined to read serious books, and much inclined to do their thinking by proxy, that is, to let editors and newspaper writers do their thinking for them. The London Saturday Review, one of the advanced papers of England, one that believes in the Nineteenth Century, Garibaldi, and in no manner given over to old-fogyism, thus discourses upon the effects of too much reading of newspapers, and is commented upon by the London Tablet:
' Excessive newspaper reading. ... Is a sure destroyer of mental health. Its effect is to corrupt the judgment, to weaken the sense of mental discrimination, to discourage intellectual initiative, and generally to deaden the mental powers by substituting a habit of mechanical for a habit of intelligent reading.” We may judge, therefore, what a nation which finds its chief intellectual food in newspapers is likely to become. “A very little yielding to this disposition,” continues the Siturday Rexuw, which likes to pursue a thought to its legitimate conclusion, “ will produce, even in cultivated men, a habit which may almost be said to be worse from an intellectual point of view than the habit of not reading at all.' A than who is not reading may possibly be thinking. But a man who reads nothing but newspapers is exercising his mind in no -greater degree than he is when occupied in putting on his clothes.”
The Saturday Revietv can afford to say this sort of thing, and says it with truth and dignity. Not so the Standard, which naturally resents such injudicious candor. After quoting the saying of Mr. Carlyle:—“The inspiration of the morning papers—alas’ we have had enough of that, and are arrived at the gates of death by means of that I”— the Standard triumphantly rejoins.- “Are there no more morning newspapers ?” and rejoices over Mr. Carlyle’s inability to extinguish them. Yet a little,later the Standard obseives, in an access of rare good sense, of the unfruitful admonitions of Mr. Carlyle: “To us there is something tragic and pathetic too, in this bootless effort of a man of real genius and grand character, to stem the spirit of the time. But when nations have once got themselves on the fatal, if pleasant, incline which leads to the abyss, no amount of written wisdom or warnings will stop them.” Does the Standard begin to lament its own services to “the spirit of the time ?"	.	.
• One of our youthful Latin scholars being asked to decline “ Jupiter,” answered:	.
“ Jupiter, Jupitra, Jupitrum.”
‘ Gdbdfor him.’' •	■ ■	:
THE- SCHOLASTIC.	.fW
' What are we to clo with, the Jesuits?
' It seems that the Cincinnati Gazette anil some other papers have the impudence to ask this que-tion with a view to prevent the Jesuits from coming into this country because they are Catholics and Jesuits.
The answer to the question is simple. If the Jesuits wish to come from poor oppressed and enfeebled Germany; let them come, and they will be welcomed like the op^ pressed seeking our shores are all welcomed,—welcomed ■ by our laws, welcomed by all true Americans who detest persecution for conscience’ sake, whether it be Bismarck or the bigoted editor of a Cincinnati paper that is or would be the persecutor. ,	.
If after they come into this country, a Jesuit, or any other man, does anything against our free institutions, let him be brought to trial, and when found guilty be condemned. But so long as the Jesuit attends to his own business—educating the youth of our land, administering the Sacraments of th^Church to those who are eager to receive them, converting men like the editor of the Gazette, from bigotry or heathenism to Christianity and Christian charity—let him alone, just like you should leave every honest man alone.
Death of the Ez-Emyeror of the French.
Napoleon III died last week, and his death has about as much effect upon the world as the death of Bill Smith or Tom Jones would have. Like his uncle; lie wished to enslave the Church, and make the Pope dependent on him, and like his uncle be died in exile. Unlike his uncle, who re-established the Catholic hierarchy in France and .had the consolation which every Catholic, however negligent he may have been during life, seeks with utmost eagerness when death approaches—of receiving the last Sacraments of the Church—the nephew died before the priest, who had been sent for in haste, could reach him. We do not attempt to judge; we state facts. God, who has already judged him, is infinitely merciful.
While we'bare not a fig for the disappearance of one of the more prominent puppets whom God has made use of to •scourge the apostate or unfaithful nations of Europe, we deeply sympathize with the ex-Empress, who was the cause of his doing whatever he un willingly and grudgingly did do for the Holy See, and who has lost her throne and now lost a husband to whom she was attached. '
Thus three of those whose aim was and is to drive Pius IX from Rome, have appeared before a higher tribunal than that of public opinion. Cavour, Mazzini, Louis Napoleon, have made their exit. Who next? ’
We were very glad to receive a visit in our Sanctum fiom Brother Theogene, the ifficient teacher of the St. Patrick’s Parochial School, in South Bend. We honor men who devote their time to so noble a calling, who without any parade and without any flinching fulfil the duties of a station which, though lowly in the sight of superficial thinkers, is held in high esteem by all who know the wants of our country and understand the importance of educating the rising generation.
We were not surprised to learn, both from our conversation with the Brother and from other sources, that St. Patrick’s School is in a flourishing 'condition; we
expected such a result, from what we knew of the solid ability, the long experience in teaching, the devotion to duty and most- genial temperament of the excellent Brother.
We call the attention of our readers to the advertisement of the Young Crusader. Of all the Juvenile publications that are now so numerous, the Young Crusader is worthy to pear the palm. The January -Number is now before us, and, as far as we can judge from it, .if the children wished to reward one of their editors like distinguished men are sometimes rewarded for their popularity, especially at fairs, they should by all means cane the Editor of rhe Young Crusader for giving them stories so well told, so attractive and so well calculated to instruct them.	•	’
The Catholic Institute Gazetted published by the Young Men's Catholic Association established in Newark N. J. This Association was founded by Rt. Rev. Bishop McQuaid, D.D., in 1854, and its present President is the Rev. George H. Doane. It has established an institute consisting, of Library, Reading Room, Gymnasium, Hall for Lectures, Meeting Room, Bath Room, etc. Rev. M. A. Corrigan is the President of the Board of Directors.
The South is the name of a handsome large weekly newspaper of eight pages publishc d in New York, devoted exclusively to the material development of the Southern States. ■	-
Fly-Catches. ‘
“ Jes’ so.”—That barrel of apple “sarce ” which his worship, Mr. Shingle, A. B., had stolen not long since, we are informed, has been found,-r-though when found, it was somewhat frozen. No doubt it has been put in a secure place before this.	.	•
Personal.—Mr,. John S. Gavitt; commercial graduate of ’68, is now a partner in in one of the drug establishments of Chicago.. We were much pleased to hear of the Judge’s advancement, and hope that success may crown his efforts. He has our best wishes.	*
The wind has been giving us plenty of whistling of late. When we look out, it causes a shudder to run over us, for we imagine it is colder than it really is. The college building, though we have had some severe weather, has been kept very comfortable. The cold has abated within the last few days.
Calisthenics.—Prof. Ivers has resumed bis instructions in this very important branch of a physical education. The recreation days are spent in dancing to the music of a*mouth-organ. We begin to notice many fine dancers among the students, and therefore conclude that the Dancing Class is far from being a failure.
Muriile.—A spy from the Muridae Brigade having fallen into an ambuscade, was brought forth for execution. All things were prepared, and he about to be executed, when, making a desperate effort, he escaped from the executioners, and attempted to make good his retreat, bnt the soleleather brigade being called out cut off his retreat, and could not be restrained before they had taken the life of the General of the Muridaj; great excitement prevailed daring the whole time. He'was buried in ah Icy vault.
150
THE SCHOLASTIC.
“ After a tempest comes a calm.” So we think, for the holidays were to us a tempest of pleasure and news; now, indeed, a calm has come over, us, and everyone is preparing for the Examination, and the scene is a monotonous one, though it is an outward monotony replete with inward variety for each student; yet it is not unfrequent at . Notre Dame.
•' The Circulating Library is again in active operation; many new books have lately been received. The Library is well patronized; many of the members have already received several times the value of the entrance fee in information. It must be borne in mind that it is not the characteristic of a good student to soil his books, but to preserve his books neat.
Observations.—It would appearthat the chairs, though very charitable themselves, did not experience the same from those who used them, for several of them have already been sent, and others will soon have to go, to the hospital to have their legs “ set." Some even had their backs broken, yet there is hope for them. The-legs of some will have to be amputated, and wooden ones supplied.
The Ranks Extending.—The ranks have been fast lengthening during the past few weeks, not only by the return of old students, but also, as the last Scholastic showed, by the arrival of several “ new-comers.” Never, we think, did we see our ranks so full. “The more, the merrier,” is our motto in this regard. However, justice to the inner youth is often the cause of making our lines somewhat extended, for “justice must be did.”
The Thespians have alLreturned, and speak of the good time they have had. Though they make their appearance seldom in the columns of The Scholastic, it must not be understood that they are not alive and up to time. When called upon, they always respond in an appropriate manner and in due time. We are anxiou-ly awaiting the 22ad prox., when, no doubt, they will give us another of their unique entertainments. But, of course, this is early to speak, and no doubt they have not thought of the play which they will present as yet, for they are too much engaged preparing for the Examination.
Seats in Play-hall.—Not long since we paid a visit to the Seniors’ play-hall where we found a number of the students seated about the stove, conversing on various topics. We like the idea first-rate of placing seats around the stove; it not only adds to the comfort of the students, but also prevents much “pulling and hauling,’- besides giving room to a greater number. But the Minims never sit down; with them not a moment of the recreation is lost. We dropped into their recreation-room the other day and found them dancing around “Tucker;” though they enter heart and soul into their amusements, they*do not forget their half-after-three o’clock lunch.
Six Days in a Week.—Talk of progress in- science and the great inventions of the mechanical world; this is nothing when compared to that ever onward spirit of the age, which has pressed onward at such a fearful rate as to force the most prominent of the days of the week—Sunday—to drop from its once high position into obscurity, for upon the “calendar” which is before,us it is not marked. Who would have thought that it would be the first to be outwinded? No doubt Monday will fall out next year; and, then, following up this ratio, time will come to
an end in a few years; the last year will contain but fifty-two days. Who would have thought of such a way of getting rid of time? “ Are we then to have but one recreation day a week ?” ask our neighbors.
Bad Deportment.—At the last Exhibition some individuals “ in the gallery” made themselves very annoying; no doubt most everyone felt like
Taking them on the fly, Right in the eye.
However, we have to say, in justice to the students, that they had no part in the ungentlemanly demonstrations. As for our part, we go to the hall for enjoyment, and when thus prevented from enjoying the entertainment are not altogether pleased, and wish the cause of such annoyance outside.
N. B. The above poetry is written in a metre of our own invention—“a different metre for every verse,” as somebody, we don’t remember who, expresses it. And it will be death for anyone who imitates it.
SAINT MADY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, January 12, 1873.
ARRIVALS.
Miss.Mary E. Black,	Yorkville, Illinois.
“ Amelia Kocb,	Cleveland, Ohio.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor (S’r Dep't), Jan. 12,1872.
Misses Katie Zell, Alice Mast, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Minnie Lange, Aline Todd, Lizzie Niel, Ida Reynolds, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Rose Mary Green, Emily H iggarty, Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Bay Reynolds, Mary Wicker, Agnes Church, Emma Plamondon, Julia Fanning, Amelia Kecline, Annie T. Clarke, Jennie Noonan, Esther B >yce, Nellie Foote, Addie Hambleton, Mary A. Roberts, Katie Miller, Annie Ried, Bell White, Ettie Burney, Anabel Stockton, Sarah Chenoweth, K itie Wickham, Josie Conner's,^Mary White, Rose Klar, Joanna Valdez, Romualda Manzanares, Alta Tucker, Mary Lyons, Henrietta Miller, Lizzie Schiber, Louisa’Lilly, Fannie Snouffer.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Graduating Class—Misses Katie Zell, Mary Lassen, Alice Mast, Katie Haymond, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Minnie Lange, Aline Todd.
First Senior Class—Lizzie Niel, Mary Kearney, Ida Reynolds, Rose Devoto, Miry Brown, Daisie Green, Lillie West, Mary Comer, Nellie Langdon, Emily Haggarty.
Second Senior Class—Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Julia Kearney, Bay Reynolds, Mary Wicker, Lettie Ritchie, Bridget Grace, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church.
Third Senior Class—Julia Fanning, A. T. Clarke, Jennie Noonan, Esther Boyce, Nellie Foote.
First Preparatory Class—Addie Hambleton, Mary A. Roberts, Josephine Walsh, Maggie Nash, Louisa Pfeiffer, Katie Miller, Lizzie Ritchie, Lou Beckman, Annie Ried, Mary E. Roberts, Addie Roberts, Bell White.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses Ettie Burney, Bell Johnson, Anabel Stockton, Sarah Chenoweth, Rebecca Marr, Katie Wickham, Josie Conners, Mamie Dillon, Emma White, Mary White, Kose Klar.	-
THE SCHOLASTIC
151"
Third Preparatory Class—Joanna Valdez, Romualda Manzanares, Henrietta Miller, Lizzie Shiber, Louisa Lilly, Fannie Snouffer.
INSTRUMENTAL MU$JC.
First Class—E. Plamondon, K. Young.
Second Division—R. Spiers, H. NitJ.
Second Class—E. Quinlan, A. GolJhardt, L. Black, A. Todd. -
Second Division—L. West, D. Greene, B. Grace.
Third Class—Misses Heedy, M. Lassen, J. Noonan, M. Ward.
Second Division—Misses Comer, A. Roberts, M. Lange, R. Devoto, L. Beckman, K. Zell, A. St. Clair.
Fourth Class—A. Shea, N. Gross, L. Daley, M. Kearney, A. Ried, M. Letourneau, L. King, A. Keeline.
Second Division—J. Kearney, H. Foote, M. McGuire, M. Corcoran, E. Ives.
Fifth Class—A. T. Clarke, M. Riley, E. Haggerty, A. Mast, K. Haymond, B. Johnson, A. Stockton, D. Simonds.
Sixth .Class—A. Lloyd, M. Faxon, L. Pfeifler.
Second Division—M. Brown, H. Marr, M. Carlin, E. Wade, B._ Wade, K; Wickham, A. Church, N. Ball, V. Ball, A. Paulsen, N. McAuliffe.
Seventh Class—M. Hildreth, M. Nash, E Thompson, M. Thompson, M. E. Roberts, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, N. Vigil, F. Butters, N. Snouffer, L. Weinreich, J. O'Connor, A. Walsh, M. Roberts.
Eighth Class—M. Walsh, L. Walsh, N. O'Meara, E. Richardson, L. Harrison.
Ninth Class—E. Lange.
Tenth Class—E. Lappin, T. Cronin, J. Tallman.
HARP.
E. Plamondon, M. Wicker.
GUITAR.
L. Harrison.
A Michigan gentleman has been visiting the timber region around and about Puget Sound, Oregon, and is now telling the Michiganders something about it. Going through one forest it was rare to find a tree as small as three feet through the butt. They were from five to six, seven, eight, and sometimes nine or ten feet through at the base, and marvellously tall, some 250 feet high. He saw one tree that would make an amount of lumber equal to the average of five acres in Michigan. It is estimated that a tree 200 feet high and ten .feet through at the base will make 80,400 feet of lumber; eight acres of Michigan pine lumber, as the trees run, would therefore make no more lumber than one of these Oregon trees. They are of white cedar, make very fine finishing lumber, and the product is worth $40 per thousand feet at Portland and other places on the coast.
St. John says that when the Saviour was brought before Pilate, He was asked the question: “ What is truth?” As Pilate was a Roman, of course his question was put in the Latin language, Quid est Veritas ? The Scripture records no reply to this question, possibly for the reason that it contains an answer which may be discovered by the mere transposition of the letters—Est mr qui adest— It is the Man who stands before you. This may be as interesting as it is singular' to many.—^Exchange. .
“ What do you call that ?” indignantly asked a customer at a cheap New York restaurant, pointing at an object that he had discovered in his plate of hash. “ Wristband with sleeve button attached,-sir,” said the waiter briskly. “ Weil, do you consider that a proper thing for a man to find in his hash?” asked the customer, in wrath. Good heivens, sir!”.cried the waiter, ‘l would you expect to find a ten dollar silk umbrella in a fifteen cent plate of hash ?”
LIST OF LETTERS
emaining in the Noire Dame Post-Office, January • 18, 1873:
Brown, John	Frank, Leonard
Gilbert, Miss Emily	Hare, John
Helen, Mary	„ Hughes, Charles
Hyde, Miss Ellen	Lassen, Mannie
Redmond, Lawrence	Talbett, George
Wilber, Cyrus
Advertise in The Scholastic.
We have concluded to take a limited number of choice advertisements this year, should our business friends conclude to patronize us in this department.
This arrangement, however, will not interfere with the reading matter, as we propose printing the advertisements on a separate sheet, to serve as a cover to the present Scholastic. This will be done as soon as a sufficient number of advertisements are secured.
ADVERTISING RATES.
1 page..............$150	i Ji column.........$	30
1 column............. 80	% column............ 18
J4 column............ 50	11-1G column........ 10
Advertisements for a shorter time than one year, at proportionate rates. Address Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame. Indiana.
She HJaria,”
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Motl er of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable iu advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $>0. in advance.
For 2 years $5. iu advance.
For 1 year,$3, iu advance.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs <>t ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the AVE Maria for $25. in advance.
To clubs of'ten' subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Avi Maria for $45. in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Avb Maha tor $50. in advance.
The postage of the Avb Marta is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a.rear, when paid in advance— either by remittance to the mailibg office here, or paid al the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame. Indiana.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THIRTT-TWO PAGES EVEHT MONTH. 81.OO I»JSR AJJfjiTTM.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Wb Wmg
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January', 1873. Subscribe now, by* sending .
One Dollar to the Editor,	- >
BEV. WILLIAM BXBNE, Ctusatjer Office. Boston, Maaa.
15 2 *
THE S C. H O L A S TIC
$20,000.
TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN PRE miums, for Distribution among the
'	. $2:00 Subscribers of the
WOOD’S HOUSEHOLD MAGAZINE.
AGrEXT^ may learn something greatly to tliefr advantage and obtain specimens and full particulars free, by addressing -
• Wood's Literary and Abt Agency,
.Newburgh, New York..
“CINCINNATI
IN APRIL, 1873.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line
fljf RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:	.	. .
The number of Premiums are always increased when the number of names exceed the number calculated upon. .
We now offer the following:
1 Cash Premium of -	-	-	$l,0(M
20 Cash Premium* of $100 Each, -	- 2.00(
60 Stem-winding Watches. $80 Each, 4,800 100 Cash Premiums of $20 Each, ; - 2.ooo 2 S0 Cash Premiums of $10 Each^ -	- 2,ooo
100 Cash Premiums of $5 Each, - - - - 5oo 100 Cash Premiums of $3 Each,	-	- 3di>
loo Cash Premiums of $2 Each, -	-	- 2oo
1279 Miscellaneous Prem., $2 to $10 Each, 7,2oo Making a Total of TWO THOUSAND Prenfums,
Worth 1WEMT THOUSAND DOLLARS.
Every subscriber who remits §2.00 f.ir a year’s subscription will have his name registered, and will be furnished by return mail a receipt giving the date and number to which his name is registered, said number being represented by a duplicate in the distribution.	.
. Agents sending 10 names and S20.00 at one time receive a free paper one year and have their names registered as participants for premiums.	,
Specimen Copies, Posters, Premium Pamphlet and Subscription Blanks sent free to persons desiring them. Address —
FARAN «& MeLEAN, nt8w6	Cincinnati, Ohio.
St. Loiiis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, HL, and Louisiana, Mo.	,
Wenona, Lacon and Washington
Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation, .
St. Louis and Springfield-Night Express, via Alain Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express. via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAYB.
♦9:15 a.m.
•3:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
t6:30 p.m.
e$9:00 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
arrive.-
♦8:00 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
£7:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. £ Dail y. § Except Monday.	-.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St: Louis tally, and a Saturday Night Train. '
Pullman Palace Pining and Smoking Oars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l.Pass. and Ticket Agent, ’ Gen’l Superintendent, • CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
PENNSYLVAN1 A CENTRAL DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
NILES I SOUTH BEND R.R.
Leave Niles, -
Leave South Bend,
it	*4
Arrive South Bend, 46	»4
GOING- SOUTH.
6.50 a m.
S) 35 a.m.
4.5'> pan.
Arrive South Bend, 46	- ’ 4«
GOING NORTH.
8.40 aan. Arrive Niles, 11.45 a.m. *•
6 30 p.m.
SUNDAY TRAINS.
9.30 a m. | Leave South Bend,
5.30p.m. |
-	7 30 a m
10.15 a.m 5.30 p.m
- 9.20 a.m 12 25 p in 7.10 p m
- .10.00 aan
1 6.30 p.m
Three daily Express Trains-with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago. Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and Neto Pbrk without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m 1 Arrives at New York 11 30'a. in* 2d train ••	••	5.15 p.m *’	*•	6 41 aim*
3rd train “	•*	9.00 p. m |	“	“	11.39 p. ni*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and at Mannsfield with trains on Atianiic and Great Western Railroad. ’
J. N McCULLOUGlI; Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.-
H. W. GWINNER. Geii Pass and Ticket Ag’t Philadelphia.
F. R. MY B-iS. Gen'l Puss aud t icket Ag't Pittsburgh •	"	’
W. C. CL'ELLAND, Ass't Gen’l Pass. Agent,.Chicago. ' * Second day.	'
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
L S. & AL ^RAILWAY.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
fpRAINS now leave South Bend as fol lows
UNIVEESITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844. enlarged in 1866. and fitted rip ■with al! the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States. ’
.	. .	'	. TERMS:. . .	-	.	.
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	- S 5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition < Latin and ‘Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five mouths, -	. 1=0 0(1
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, ------	---	]2	50
Use of Piano,	-	-	-	--	--	-	.	-	- jo r()
Use of Violin, ---	-----	-	-	-	2	00
Drawing. _ -	•	-	--	--	--	--	-- 15.00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5	00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $1; Scientific, 88; Classical, ' -16 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are -
charged, extra. ---------	-✓ 35 (jq
Payments to be made invariably in advance. -	.
Class Books. Stationery, etc , at current prices.
00 ING Leave South Bend 10 30 a m.
“	12 25 p in. ’
“	“	9.15 p. nt.
••	“	12 35 a ni.
“	“	8.2 ip. m.
“	“	4.35 p m.
GOING
Leave	South Bend. 4 53	p.	ni.
••	“	2 55	a.	ni.
“	“	5 00	a.	111.
“	,	“	605	p	tn.
“	" “	6.37 a. m. '
“	“	8.20 a. m. |
EAST.
Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a. tn “	1	4 a. m
“	135 p. m
“	.	“	5 3i p. ni
Runs to Elkhart.
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. tn
Making connection with all trains West and North.
6 50 «.
8.20 a.
ru in ‘
. 9J0 p. m , 10 30 a. m 12.30 p. in i
4QF" For full details,"see the Company's posters aud time tablet at the depot aud other public places.
US' Trains 'are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.	.
J. H DEVEREUX General Manager. Cleveland, Ohio. -
CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent. Cleveland. -
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J W. Cary. General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S. Nellis. ticket Agent. South Bend.
Ttie First S-ssion begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on the 1st of February.	-
Fur-further particulars, address	_	.
.. Jtox. A.^BKOKMIEB, C.S.C.,
'	' ......... President.
J, M. Tolciiard, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Gnnvo North-Express fia-seuger, fi.I’j p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.'
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.	'.
Going South—Exprees-passenger,8.58a. m.-;.10.46a. m.; 9:25 p. m.
Freights; 1.00 a.m.; 4Z48 a.'ini " - . H; N. CANIFF, Agent.’ ” •
i
I