
Berated to toe totomts to to® Statotos.
“LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.’-
VOLUME III.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 19, 1870.
Numbee 12.
Notre Danie.*
(Continued from page 87.)
Students of the College and of the Industrial School were together in recreations, and the latter came into the College study room after work in the evening—all told, they did not muster a hundred strong. The study room was in the basement of the central building, occupying about one-fourth of it—the wings were not then built. As we have mentioned the first arrivals among the Religious, we think it just and proper to mention the first among the students, when we, a timid, bashful lad, first entered the study room, years ago. There was Father Letourneau, then a hard student—and we do believe he did not take his eyes off his book to look at us; near him sat John Williams, and he took a good long stare at us, which we returned. The smiling face of Tom Wallin; the half grim, half good-humored countenance of poor Tom Lafontaine, the son of the Chief o f the Miatnis; the meek, suffering countenance of his cousin, Richardville, whom we followed to the grave a year after; the handsome face of John Bracken, now concealed with hirsute covering, were the representative countenances of the first fifty students of Notre Dame, the immediate successors of the first twenty or thirty others whom we did not know personally as students. Sir. Alexander Coquillard, of South Bend, was the first who entered. In those days, Brother Francis of Sales, an old warrior of the first Empire, held the post which has since been so long and efficiently occupied by Brother Benoit, whom he resembled both in strictness of discipline and partiality to snuff.
The students took prodigious delight in long excursions on foot, and they scoured the fields far and wide, seeking what they might devour. Over hill and dale they would have roamed, had there been that variety in the surrounding country,— they made up for the loss of such pleasure, by trudging manfully through sandy roads and swampy prairies. A favorite mode of passing the day was to start out immediately after breakfast, carrying the main part of the dinner along with them, and trusting to the neighboring farmers for butter, eggs and milk, though the farmers rarely returned the compliment of trusting them; at other times they would give notice a week in advance, and then make a raid on some farm-house near by, and soon demolish the chickens, hot cakes and pies and other dainty edibles, which, besides being somewhat more toothsome than the College commons, tasted fifty per cent, better from the fact that they had to be paid for just as furtive puffs of contraband tobacco from short-stemmed pipes in College were more fragrant to their nostrils than the odor of the finest Havana anywhere else,—because there it was strictly forbidden to smoke.	’	4
The discipline of Notre Dame has justly met with the approbation of all the friends of the In-
• From “ The Silver Jubilee,” compiled and published by Joseph A. Lyons, A. M.
stitution. At the beginning, the main features were the same as now; for in regard to discipline, as for everything else connected with the Institution, Father Sorin gave the impulse and direction. Yet some changes have been made, and they began in the first years. It was natural that the whole system of Freflch college discipline should at first be introduced, or at least that an attempt should be made. Yet in those early days the Founder of Notre Dame quickly seized the peculiarities of Young America as distinguished from Young France. We well remember the transition from the stringent measures required by the lively and giddy French boys to the broader liberty given to comparatively more sober and sedate Americans. Like a judicious man, who, instead of transplanting a tree to a strange soil and thereby running the risk of losing it, takes its most thriving branches and engrafts them on a strong and thrifty tree of native growth, thus bettering both grafts and tree, especially the tree, Father Sorin did not impose the European system of discipline, but merely grafted on the system of the country those regulations which perfected it, and made it bring forth good fruit instead of the bitter Dead Sea fruit that the unmodified American system too frequently produces.
The most po werfulhuman cause of Father Sorin’s singular success was his quick perception of the manners and ideas of his adopted country, and the happy facility with which he not only conformed to them, but actually made them part and parcel of himself; and while he retained all the qualities of the Catholic priest and of the French gentleman, he laid aside the prejudices of the foreigner, and seemed to take possession of the spirit of the country with his oath on becoming a citizen. We have all met with men who have been in this country for many years, yet who are as much Frenchmen or Germans, or English, as they were the first day of their arrival,—nay, it seems that their prejudices in favor of their own country become more settled the longer they remain. Father Sorin was not of that class.
It was his good judgment in this respect that perfected the discipline of the College, and tempered the too free and easy, and, in many cases, rude manners of American youth, with the polished and elegant manners of France, without diminishing the open frankness and sincerity which is an offset to American want of culture.
The course of studies at Notre Dame was always complete, and the scholarship high. Father Coin-tet, the first Director of Studies, was not only a most accomplished gentleman, who won the respect and affectionate esteem of every one who became even only slightly acquainted with him, but was also a profound scholar, with broad views; and, though Father Sorin was prevented by his many and fast-increasing cares, as his community grew more numerous, from acting directly on any one class of students or branch of studies, yet, as President of the College and of the Board of Trustees, his views were the leading ones in the reunions of the Faculty: and if now the corps of
Professors is more numerous to meet the wants of the increased number of students, we consider we are paying them a compliment when we say they are worthy successors of Father Cointet, Father Shaw, Rev. Mr. Ivers, Brother Gatien, Professors Jones, O’Leary, and others of the earlier days. While Father Cointet gave the impulse to the study of classics, Bro. Gatien made his students enthusiastic on the subject of Mathematics; and ' Father Shaw, who was an eloquent speaker himself, fostered in the breasts of the numerous students of his class that love of debate and “ holding forth” which seems natural to all American youths.
Father Shaw it was who laid the foundation of the present Literary Societies, and afforded the first materials for the lively traditions of the Thespian and Dramatic Societies; and Brother Basil shortly after took hold of the band and sounded the first notes of the Philharmonic Societies, which have since, under various names, reechoed their notes every year with increasing vim and sweetness.
About the same time—away back in the 40s— Professor Girac took charge of the College Choir, which he has conducted ever since, with the exception of a few years he spent in Chicago. We have alluded to the Religious Societies, of which Father Granger was, and has ever been, the moving spirit—with this allusion we must be content, and hasten on to bring up our chronicle of events to the present time, stopping, however, long enough to state that though Father Serin was ably assisted at this early epoch by such men as Father Cointet, Father Granger, and others whom we have mentioned, and others whom we have been obliged to pass over, though reluctantly, in silence, and though he has since had efficient aid from the same and others, yet in all things he was the master mind, he the guiding spirit.
Up to the year 1848 the -number of students steadily increased,-the Industrial School was developed, the farm cleared and drained, the\N->vitiates sent forth new members, and that lively movement indicative of youth and vigor, which still prevails at Notre Dame, was evident in every department of the establishment.
In 1848, Father Sorin was rejoiced by a visit from his old College mate and confrere, the Rev. Father Drouelle, now Provincial of France, then a young priest on his way to Guadeloupe. Father Drouelle still retains a lively remembrance of his travels over the “ corduroy roads ” between South Bend and Indianapolis, delights to recount for the benefit and amazement of his hearers his haps and mishaps in America; and, though his stay was short he always speaks with kindly feeling of Americans, and when afterwards he resided for over twelve years in Rome he never let slip an opportunity of doing a kind service to any one from America on a visit to the Holy City.
Before leaving Notre Dame, Father Drouelle celebrated the first High Mass in the new church, on the 12th of November. The church still stands, and though it has been enlarged, is now too small
90
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
for the accommodation of the students and the congregation. We have reason to hope it will soon be replaced by a larger one, more in accordance with the other buildings around it.
In 1849 the shops and the kitchen were entirely destroyed by fire. It was quite a loss to the community ; but, far from being discouraged, Father S >rin took measures to have the frame building replaced by a brick one, the one which now stands behind the church.
The year 1S51 was one of great importance to Notre Dame: it was the year that the railroad was completed through the neighboring town of South Bend, and the Post Office was established at Notre Dame. The wings of the College were added to the main building in 1853—the College and the whole establishment at Notre Dame stead, ily prospered until 1854,
The cholera had ravaged many parts of the United States, and the danger seemed passed away, when, in the summer of 1854, many of the inmates of Notre Dame were attacked. Among the first taken away was Rev. Father Cointet: his health had been completely shaken by a residence ol some years in New Orleans, where obedience had placed him at the bead of an Orphan Asylum conducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross: he had returned in the spring of ’54, and his attendance on the extensive missions around Notre Dame had improved his general health; still he was not strong enough to resist the attack of disease,.and in the month of August he passed away from the scene of his labors, regretted by all, and by no one so much as by the Founder of Notre Dame. His loss, humanly speaking, was irreparable, and when added to the loss of Rev. Father Curly, a zealous young priest ordained the year before, and of some twenty other members of the community, and to pecuniary difficulties, seemed to threaten Notre Dame with utter destruction. The clouds were lowering, truly. In September the students returned, and Professors were not yet recovered from the attack; for though over twenty died, yet many more, we might say all, were taken down by the disease, and were .suffering from its effects. The College had been a hospital for the sick—it had to be renovated from top to bottom; the work usually done in vacation-time was all on the hands of the few ■who could manage to crawl around. Another source of anxiety still remained, though for years efforts had been made to remove it: we mean the marshy ground between the two lakelets, which, in the opinion of all, was the cause of much sickness. Owing to a misunderstanding with the gentleman who owned the property between the lakes and the river, and who could consequently dam the water of the lakes, the land between them could not be drained;—to all this we must add embarrassments in money matters, the erection of new buildings having entailed a debt that might have been easily-met in ordinary circumstances, but which now weighed heavily on the decimated and languishing community.
' But Father Sorin never lost his confidence in God—never for a moment doubted the protection of the Mother of the Redeemer, to whom Notre Dame is specially dedicated. His confidence was repaid. The summer of ’54 was the dark moment before the dawn of a new and more flourishing era for Notre Dame. The gentleman who had so long refused to sell his land, or accommodate Notre Dame by allowing the water of the lakes to be lowered, offered to sell his land at much more reasonable terms than had been proposed to him. The land was bought, the lake was lowered, much to the improvement of the health of the establishment Another advantage obtained, but not appreciated at that time, was the site on which St. Mary’s Academy has since been erected.
Kind and liberal friends came forward, among
whom Mr. and Mrs. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio, are remembered as two of the most generous ben-
in
Tlic mystic Honey-bee, OR -
THE SOUL IN SEARCH OF HAPPINESS.
efactors of Notre Dame. May they receive heaven the reward of their good works 1
[to be continued.]
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
The Use and Abuse of our Love for the Facetious.
▲	EFFORT, BY M B. B.
The san wa« up. the morn was clear. The meads were eemmed with pearly dew;
The woodland rans with mirthful cheer. And nature throbbed with life anew.
I wander'd through a flowcry field To catch the fragrant morning air;
And fain would I my spirit yield To musing and to silent prayer.
My soul puts on her golden wings, Assumes the form of a honey-bee. And bH:hesome to the morning sings Her song of blisslul jubilee.
She wings her flight to distant shores * Where fl >wers of ancient culture grow;
From out whose precious honeyed stores Both nutriment and pleasure flow.
She wanders ’round the seten hills,
H inch formed the throne of a world’s queen; Where tin me its fragrant balm distills
Upon the crystal air serene.
Then re®ts she on the laurel bough Fur wh’ch ambition ardent siehed;
Which crowned the hupny victor’s brow. Who boldly twain war’s gory tide.
Kestored to strength by the bracing air, She seeks the silent shady grove, ‘Where poets* fled from noisy care To sing their notes of peace and love.
She roamed among the blossoms dense 1 hat hung from tree, and stalk, andvine;
And drank sweet draughts, prolonged, intense, (Jf honey from this floral shrine.
Now, laden with her grateful store.
She leaves the grove of fragrance sweet;
And speeds her way to Grecian’s shore, With bloom of ev'ry kind replete.
Then to the gardens rich and rare. Which owe their culture to the hand That swayed the mines of Athens fair.
And scattered blessings o’er the land.
She wings her flight, and eager clings To every blossom of ihe place;
And sips the juice which always brings A grateful smile to every face.
Her store increased, she bent her way, To gloomy forests thick ax.d wild. Which closed the door ou lucid day
Yet grace with darkness reconciled,
She wandered on for many an hour, The glonm began to disappear;
The sombre shadows cea.-ed to lower And soon the way was bright and clear.
Her store being filled with sav’ry juice From every flower of every soil, She hid aside for winter use
The fruits of all her summer toil.
But O! what sorrow, grief and pain Assailed this bee one early morn— Her honey pro\ ed a deadly bane And famine stung like pois’nous thorn.
For hours she mourned her luckless fate While death around her grimly played;
No friend was near compassionate Till a sister bee came to her aid.	'
Sho poured upon her pallid lips A honey culled from mystic flowers • Whence crystal dew ambrosial drips To balm the air of elysian bowers.
Her life restored, the mystic bee Directed by her sister kind. -’Hose far above both herb and tree
The source of this sweet balm to find.
She soars on high beyond the sun, T’ranscends the stars which gem the night, And when at length her course is done. Beholds a garden clothed in light.
The gard’ner, robed in lustrous rays. Gives her a greeting warm and true, ' Conducts her through bright golden ways To bowers vhere life and beauty grew.
Blate with joy the mystic bee e	Breaks forth in songs of gratefnl praise;
She feeds on love and ceaseless glee Which suit her voice to seraph’s lays.
In common with the lower animals, among the first marks of healthful growth in man we find the disposition to play, to sport, and to exercise the muscles of the body and the inferior powers of the mind, out of mere love active—from the simple exuberance of animal spirits. The kitten, the lamb, the colt, and the child, equally exhibit the propensity to play; but to the monkey and the buffoon is reserved the questionable distinction of ■making antics the end and aim of their strongest exertions, the chief business of life.
A keen appreciation of the ridiculous seems frequently to belong to minds of a high order, but it is in nowise an evidence of superior intellect, since we often observe that those completely devoid of mental capacity in any other direction are the most perfect wags.
Playfulness, like our appetite for food and drink, our love to accumulate property, our desire to please, or any other of our animal inclinations, is liable to prove excessive, and the inveterate joker commands no more respect than does the gourmand', the tippler, the miser, or the coxcomb. This we know by experience and observation of society. The merry-andrew is welcome to most circles, not because he is esteemed, but because he furnishes pastime; and of those who applaud and laugh at his comic attitudes and expressions, few would desire to exchange places with him; for to be known as a clown, is not an enviable reputation) since levity carries with it its own condemnation, and many a poor mirth-maker has been known to respond to the declaration of Dr. Valentine, the distinguished comedian, who acknowledged to his physician that he had “never experienced five minutes of happiness in his life.”
We would not be understood to undervalue the office of wit and humor, for they are by no means insignificant; yet, like fire arms, they are dangerous in the hands of the ignorant, the indiscreet, or the unprincipled. To barb the shafts of merited rebuke, or to furnish innocent pastime in the hours devoted to mental relaxation, areobjectsofnosmall importance; and they furnish the legitimate opportunities for the use of wit in its broad sense; and ridicule is indeed the most potent of all weapons against any abuse, since there is nothing all men more fear to invite, and nothing which appeals more directly to the common mind. Reason-is reserved for the thoughtful few.
Fortunate would it be for the human race could “the laugh” be turned agiinst none but the undeserving and vicious ; but this is not the case, for we know full well that ridicule is no less potent when enlisted against truth and virtue than when armed in their favor and defense; therefore, we should not take it for granted that because an author is facetious, or because a companion is witty> that they are consequently innocent and harmless. - This is a grand mistake on the part of many very good people. A “jolly fellow” is always voted as “ good-hearted,” and the writer who will excite the risibility is pronounced as “ not so bad after all.” It is the facetious vein in immoral writers which constitutes their most dangerous charm, because it leads superficial minds to excuse that which they would otherwise condemn.
No one can deny the dissipating effect of an inordinate love for joking, and the habits of idleness it is almost sure to induce. Many causes also conspire to render the present age, and our own country particularly, subject to the noxious influence in question. We are a great nation, it is true, but crude and unformed. Like an overgrown, child, we are not at all what is expected of us, when we are judged of from our size. We are un-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
settled and characterless, so to speak: the facilities for traveling; the rapid modes of communication ; fortunes suddenly lost, placing the refined and cultivated at the foot of the social scale; fortunes suddenly acquired, elevating the vulgar and unlettered into the rank of respectability; these causes, united with cheap, trifling literature, produced by unprincipled authors, and devoted to no higher aim than to pass time away, conspire to render the laughter-loving propensity of youth too frequently the insidious thief of time, and alas, KOT SELDOM, THE GRAND DESTROYER OF VIRTUE I
Would to heaven that mirth was always harmless! Would that the angel of light—the spirit of joy—were not so easily and so artfully counterfeited! But tiiere is good reason to believe that much of the looseness belonging to modern American morals can be traced to the reaction of society, to its remit against the spirit of Puritanism, the hypocritical affectation of good, the unnatural restraints upon cheerfulness, which marked the early history of New England, and which was communicated to the other States to a greater or less extent.
It is true that moroseness is a more dangerous vice than levity as it concerns the individual, but not so as it relates to society, since cold austerity is so completely unattractive, whilst a sportive disposition is so alluring and seductive in its very nature.
Who that has learned the lessons of the world cannot recall occasions when the modest blush of innocence was made the signal for ridicule, and when the unfortunate object has yielded the integrity of his heart from fear of being laughed at ? Too reaiily did he learn to face boldly the most obscene allusions, while the crimson token of a pure soul was transmuted into a sign of shame, that he had not sooner become an adept in the dark speech of the vile.	.
Spurious and hackneyed wit is the most common source of entertainment. Subtract malicious and trifling gossip—(topics plentifully supplied by the wretched newspaper reports, which gleam in fearful profusion, like demoniac leers, from the surface of every duly sheet,) subtract these, and in most of our modern circles what have we left? Whole dialogues carried on in cant phrases. Colloquies composed of stale and impertinent jokes: the most irreverent transposition of the Holy Scriptures, for the purpose of “ making fun and, perhaps, to break the monotony,some “elegantand refined” young lady—judging from her dress and manner—will seat herselfat the “ Steinway Grand,” and entertain you by singing in her clearest and most emphatic style, “ Captain Jenks of the Horse Marines," or something else equally indicative of an intellectual taste. No wonder that “love of society” is but another name for “levity,” when to propose a topic above “the last breach-of-promise case” will resolve the gay circle into a “Quaker meeting,"all tongues becoming suddenly paralyzed. Frequently it is that the most voluble becomes nonplussed when drawn outside of the orbit' of mimicry, sarcasm and indelicate jesting. Have we not, for this result, in a great measure to thank , the popularity of publications like the Comic Almanac, Brother Jonathan, and Sam Slide, of old; and of their late successors Nick-Fax, Budget of Fun, Josh Billings, and the like? The quaintness mingled with the evil principles of authors like Thomas Carlyle; the mingling of the grotesque and pathetic in Hood, Thackeray, and Dickens, successfully copied by their numerous imitators, have contributed largely to destroy the noble earnestness of spirit IMPARTED BY CHRISTIANITY; have made death, heacen, and hell, legitimate subjects of jest and trifling discourse, since the truths of revelation are ignored by these would be astute writers. Next to the vulgarity or rather the im-
purity of so-called wit, in theaboveclause,wehave indicated the greatest danger under consideration, and the chief abuse of our lone for the facetious. We firmly believe it to be worthy of the most grave reflection, since this abuse is a viper which, if cherished, will do incalculable mischief in the future, as it has done already in the past.
True and refined wit is indeed a most noble source of pleasure; for we are so constituted that to keep the intellect from stagnation, consequent moroseness or fatigue, new and striking thoughts must be frequently presented, and the active play of the mental powers is absolutely necessary to maintain their healthful condition. Perhaps of our witty American writers, 0 W. Holmes, J. G Saxe, and George D. Prentice may be mentioned as among the best.
True wit can be safely employed in treating grave and momentous subjects, but the vocabulary •expressive of the facetious preponderates on the side of vulgarity and falsehood. Fun, sport, is but “ vulgar merriment.” A joke is most frequently the most complete misrepresentation, taken by certain parties as in earnest; and we find the in nuendo, or blind insinuation or hint at something not fully explained, is a method of exciting laughter, which, though frequently tolerated in upstart circles, will brand any individual with the merited stigma of “ ill bred.”
The same may be said of practical jokes, which are frequently cruel, and they are totally unknown within the precincts of real refinement. Our American youth are none too respectful, and there is little or no fear of their being too much restrained by salutary suggestions in another direction.
In the above-mentioned methods of expressing wit there is the absence of that “chastity oj charity” so beautifully recommended by the glorious Bishop of Geneva, and which will never inflict the slightest wound upon another, even under the specious pretext of enlivening the flagging spirits of our friends.
For the “Notro Dame Scholastic.**
TIic People of the State of Bertrand vs. John Stick.
(From our own Law Reporter—Mr. Larry Doolan )
This is one of the most momentous cases that has yet been tried in this honorable court. The nature of the charge, as well as the social standing and characteristic importance of the defendant, combine to make it by far the most interesting lis adjudicata (it looks big to put it in Latin) in the criminal annals of this commonwealth Altogether it is one of those singular occurrences whose monstrous appearance, from time to time, in society show conclusively the diabolic depravity of which human nature, in spite of its boasted progress, is still capable. The history of this case, in the hands of an accomplished author, besides being a sad commentary on the inconstancy of flirting swains, and an infallible proof of the existence of humanity, presents, I venture to say, the materials for one of the most dramatic novels that was ever written. According to the Statute of Frauds,—plenty of them are fraudulent enough, —and the Reg. Gen. 4 w. 4, the breoia formata of the case is this: On the first ultimo the defendant, Stick, and one Cicero Bed, happened to meet at the Maison DorGe, on Wabash avenue, in the city of New Dublin, a place well known not only as the seat of Trinity College, but also as the metropolitan mart of all that tract of territory lying between the urban limits of Notre Dame, on one side, and South Bend on the other. It has the “St. Jo.” on its back, and a huge forest stands between it and the audacious ’ambition of Mishawaka, which otherwise might be a danger
ous spot on its face. In spite of these natuial defenses, however, it must be confessed that the Dnblinites are thrown into occasional consternation by the mysterious and adventitious appearance of Mishawaka in the shape of a rickety “ bus ” behind the invisible shades of two ancient chargers once owned by a Pottowattomie chief, and which now owe whatever motion and vitality they possess or exhibit, to the ceaseless pushing, and to the vigorous blowing of their driver on a gigantic antediluvian tin horn. But I’m digressing. As stated before. Stick and Bed, by that law which governs the fortuitous concourse of atoms, came into contact at the place aforesaid, when Stick assaulted Bed, with a pipe. Having, unfortunately, been an eye-witness of the transaction, I was brought up to give my testimony on the preliminary examination, and, not being able to give bail, I was committed to the hospitality of the sheriff,—that there might be no doubt about my presence in the court above, as they said. The examining magistrate held the defendant in bonds of two dollars and fifty cents, but on being informed by defendant’s counsel that the people of this country were constitutionally opposed to excessive bail, he consented to reduce the bond to one dollar and seventy-five cents; and the defendant, with two securities, having signed it, was allowed to go home, and I was allowed to go to jail. Now herein consists one of the paradoxical beauties of our laws,—namely, the man who has the misfortune to be innocent is sure of being punished, while he who is guilty is often most tenderly protected from the punishment of his misdeeds!	.
‘Well, the grand jury found a “true bill” in the case of Mr. Stick, and the day of his trial •came on. There was a most imposing array of counsel on either side. The prosecuting attorney opened the case to the jury by saying—as he always says—that the act of the prisoner now at the bar was the most atrocious, outrageous, and auda- . cions violation of the law he had ever heard, and ■ hoped the jury had already made up their minds not to listen to anything—this warning is often unnecessary—the other side might have to say. He then went on to tell them all he expected to prove by myself; and sure enough if poor Stick were one-tenth part as bad a man as my promised revelations were intended to make him, he would have been a horrid monster. The leading counsel for the defense arose with an air of importance that might be the product of ineffable scorn and dignified fury. He had a long body, short legs, large hands, immense feet, a bull-dog neck, a • terrier nose, and squirrel eyes. He would have been a beau-ideal for a Homeric hero around the lofty, breast-high mud-walls of that collection of classic wigwams called Troy! For his part, he admitted—and the jury would see by this admission his disposition to candor—that the case now submitted to this immaculate and intelligent jury, was, as the prosecuting attorney had said, one of outrageous magnitude. Indeed, he, the counsel for the defense, in his long professional career had never yet been called npon to defend an innocent citizen against such a wicked and wanton attempt at the invasion of his constitutional liberties. He hoped therefore that such a refined and learned jury had by this time made up their minds to laugh with sovereign scorn at the vicious and tyrannical speech of the state’s attorney, between whom and the people there evidently was a conspiracy to bind the chain of despotism around the limbs of a free man! He told them, moreover, that this man, Larry Doolan, of whose testimony the prosecuting attorney had made such a swaggering and triumphant boast, was in fact the chief witness for the defense; and that they, the defense, were prepared to make

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
him swear, if necessary, that Mr. Stick wasn’t at the Maison-DorCe, the night he committed the assault on this man, Bed. “ Thus you see, gentlemen,” said he, “ we propose to put the people into the disreputable position of disproving an al-eye-by,—this for alibi,—and thereby so converge and concentrate the rays of the sun of liberty in the cyclopic eye of despotism, as that it shall never again gaze upon the dome of freedom!” [Great sensation in the court-room.]
At the end of the opening speeches, the prisoner was brought into the court, and I was put upon the stand. When there, the court 'looked at me, the jury looked at me, the lawyers looked at me, and the miscellaneous crowd of roughs, whisky-bloats, loafers, idlers, and prominent candidates for the penitentiary, that usually flock to such places, looked at me. I was not surprised at that, however, since if I should only verify the prophetic promises, of both sides as to my ability of proving and disproving the same thing, I would indeed be a phenomenon. The people got at me first, and began in this style:
Question. “ Your name ?”
Ans. “ My name is Larry Doolan.”
Q. “ Do you know-------?”
[Objected to by the defense, on the ground that the people have no right to ask any questions. Tne objection was overruled, and the same question was put in another form.]
Q. “Were you in the Maison-DorCe on the night of the altercation referred to ?”
A. “I------”
[Objected to on the ground that the witness had no business to be there, or any other place, on that night. Objection overruled.]	»
Q. “Will you describe the pipe with which Mr. Bed was struck on that night?”
A “I will.”	'
Q. “Well, why don’t you doit?”
A “You haven’t asked me yet.” Counsel. “Well, I ask you now.” A “It’s stem was about two inches long; it had a black bowl, and, barring in a few particulars, I can’t say that it differed much from other dhu-deens."	,
By the Court. “ Will the witness explain what he means by that last expression?”
“A “I mean a convenient sort of a pipe that you can carry in the band of your caubeen.”
By the Court, again. “ What do you mean by cau cau—by that last word ?”
A. “ I mean a hat that’s nothing the better for wear.”
State's Attorney. “Did Stick strike Bed with the pipe?”
A “He did, and broke it into smithereens.”
Q. “ Did you see all this?”
A “ I did, and a good deal more.”
[to he continued.]
Some of our exchanges have adverted to a list of illustrated papers which appeared a few months ago in the Scholastic as recommended to the students here. We wish to state that our comprehensiveness is not so limited as some of our contemporaries seem to think. We object to no paper, illustrated or not, provided its contents be dignified, moral, and instructive; but we object to the sickening productions of diseased minds.
Mineral Products of the World.—We take
the following figures from the Phrenological Journal : Tlie annual product of coal throughout the world is, 3,214,000.800 cwt.; of iron, 191,800,000 cwt.; of copper, 1,581,000 cwt.; of lead, 4,926,300 cwt; of zinc, 2.350,000 cwt.; of gold, 459,883 tbs.; of silver, 2,863,000 lbs.
For the “ Notre Dame Scholasic.”
On Neckties.
Of all the items of masculine attire, none at present opens so-wide afield to fancy as the necktie. It was not always thus: there was a time when the black satin stock was indispensable, but that time will probably never return. So great a variety of costumes have appeared under the virile chin of late years that an attempt to classify them were almost vain. We think, however they may be reduced to four principal classes: the ButterFly ; the Shoo-Fly; the Shoe-Tie; and the CasualTie.	•
The Butter-Fly owes its existence not to the Caterpillar, as some of our naturalists have fondly imagined, but to the Falling Collar. It is a beautiful piece of mechanism, being kept in position by a combination of forces—the elasticity of the, button attachment with the resistance of the stiffener pressing against the shirt-collars. It would be an elegant mathematical problem in maxima and mimimri to determine the largest possible Butter-Fly capable of being supported in position by agiven shirt-collar—tbestrengdi of tbeelasticand of the shirt button which forms the main point d’appui being also given. In the management of Butter Flies the following hints may not be deemed out of place.
1.	Beware of putting on your Butter-Fly upside down. This, if it should happen (as is frequently the case) that your Butter-Fly is the most conspicuous-portion at your physique, will have the effect of causing you to appear as if standing on your head,—an attitude not to be generally encouraged.
2.	If your Butter-Fly is large and heavy, and the elastic lo'op of attachment new and strong, be careful that the shirt button to which it is attached is perfectly sound and reliable. Otherwise, a sudden expansion of the chest may shoot off your Butter-Fly right across the tea-table, and endanger the eye of the opposite parti, who may perhaps be your aunt or other highly respectable female relative. Professor-----says that the best way to avoid such accidents is to fasten one end of your collar first, then put on the loop of your ButterFly, and over it fasten the other end of your collar. You can then turn up the ears (perhaps we ought rather to say the antenna) of your ButterFly under the wings of your collar, and as long as the collar itself does not give way your ButterFly will be safe.-----'
The Shoo-Fly is a form of necktie which has recently appeared in our midst. It consists essentially of two floating ends of very fine silk, which should be long enough to stream back like meteors over the shoulders of the wearer. These, of course, ought to be the ends of a bona fide square handkerchief, although the Butterfly attachment is—alas!—too often used. If you wish to convince the audience of the unimpeachable integrity of your Shoo Fly, you can cut away portions of your collar, and show that your handkerchief goes all around underneath it. To make a square handkerchief wear evenly, proceed thus: You fold it, of course, diagonally, causing it to take the form of a right angled triangle, and then roll the right angle towards the hypotenuse. (We have seen persons roll the hypotenuse towards the rightangle ; this mode is better adapted to show off the border of the handkerchief, but we doubt if it is equal to the other method in neatness.) Now, having worn your handkerchief for some time thus, it is evident that it will stretch in the direction of the diagonal on which it is folded, and thus wear unevenly. To avoid this, open your handkerchief out again, and fold it on the other diagonaL This will give all parts of the garment, except perhaps the center, an equal chance to wear out
The Shoe-Tie form of necktie is past the zenith of its splendor. It flourished in connection with the garrote form of collar, and appeared as a narrow ribbon encircling the neck, with dangling ends in front. At one time it became so extremely narrow as almost to pass into the legitimate province of the microscope. Its ends were often decorated with flossy fringes of intricate reticulation, and gold and silver bullion were sometimes interwoven among its silken brilliancies. But the day of these glories is o’er.
The Casual-Tie species may be understood to comprehend all those kinds of neckties used on occasion of unforeseen accidents—such as, for instance, not being able to get a clean shirt, and being suddenly sent for to see visitors in the parlor. In this case you cannot do better than apply the voluminous folds of a necktie to your injured bosom, and stick thereupon a splendid breastpin, to brazen out by an exterior triumph the heartrending deficiencies that lurk beneath. In fact, we have known a necktie to supply the want of an entire shirt. Judicious management can do a good deal.
The last form of this article of apparel is the hempen necktie, with which we dismiss the subject.	S.
Letter from Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General.
Rome, Jan. 22,1870.
Rev. deab Father:—I received yesterday the compliments of the season which you conveyed to me on behalf and with the signatures of your Hon. Faculty. I hasten to acknowledge the same with unfeigned gratitude, and to beg of you to assure all the members, now employed in the noble work of Christian and liberal education at my dear Notre Dame, that they have all my sympathies in their generous efforts, as well as my congratulations in their success.
During the past month I met, I may say daily, with a number of high dignitaries of the Church who seemed to entertain for Notre Dame sentiments that delighted me. There is beyond a doubt a great deal expected from Notre Dame, for a sound and moral as well as for an enlightened training of youth in the West. The place is generally considered as one in which Diviue Providence has shown a sensible interference; one which has now made its proofs, and which is already possessed of advantages in the ensemble unsurpassed in America. I am glad to find my long cherished idea—viz., the mutual advantage arising to Notre Dame and Sl Mary’s from their precise location as they stand to each other, as one undoubted cause of their simultaneous rapid development. “Leuctra and Mantinea,” said a general of old Greece before he died, “ are two daughters who will not let my name perish.” I trust in God that those two daughters He has given me in the New World will live, not to perpetuate my name, but to accomplish their great mission; may they prove for ages to come two bright constellations in our great West!	•
I deplore, more deeply perhaps than any one at Notre Dame, the loss the Institution has sustained in Prof. Girac’s death. Who knew better
than I did his real worth? Our common consolation, however, is found in the Christian and edifying sentiments in which he died.
Meanwhile I am already seeking actively how to replace him at Notre Dame. I am assured that in Belgium especially I will find, without any serious trouble, precisely what is needed there. I shall spare nothing.
Hoping to meet you again early next spring; and to find yourself and all the members of the

rd’—‘
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Faculty in the enjoyment of good health, actively and devotedly engaged, cheerful and happy as ever, I remain, Rev. dear Father,
Your faithful friend in Christ,
E. Sorin.
Rev. W. Cobby, S. S. C., President Notre Dame University.
P. S.—I shall bring with me to Notre Dame
a
splendid bronze medal, of the largest size among those lately struck off in commemoration of the Ecumenical Council (four inches in diameter). They say it is a chef-tPauvre of art, and I believe it myself. I had it blessed by the Holy Father. I intend it for the most deserving among your officers, professors, teachers, and prefects. Please name him, that I may have his name engraven, in Paris, on the case.
A cable dispatch announces the proximate return of Very Rev. Father General, who is expected at Notre Dame within two weeks.
St. Angela’s Academy, Morris, 111,
Not long since, we had the pleasure of a visit to this academy, and we must say we were delighted, —every thing presented such a pleasing aspect, and all the inmates seemed so happy and contented.
The young ladies of this flourishing Institution apparently study hard and are making rapid progress in.the arts and sciences; the result is, virtue, refinement and happiness prevail. The “ soul of music ” is by no means a stranger there, as we can testify after listening auribus arrectis to an entertainment given by the young ladies, where a culture in both vocal and instrumental music was shown—a culture that would do credit to any Institution in the country. Here I would mention some of the young ladies who took prominent parts on the occasion above mentioned.—viz, Misses Flora Shurman, Ella Prior, Katie Meek, Salma Meek, Alice Sears, Maggie Maguire, Cecilia Kellilea, Nannie Kelly, Katie Shanessy, Maggie O’Connor, Annie Huey.
The good Sisters who conduct St. Angela’s Academy have reason to be justly proud of their work, which shines out so brilliantly in the display which their pupils are able to make on all occasions with grace and dignity. A parochial school of no little merit is also under the direction of the same good Sisters. This school, much encouraged by the worthy pastor, Rev. Father Devine, presents a pleasing prospect, and we predict for it
a prosperous, happy future.
Visitor.
The Real Slate of the Case.
J]
We beg to state that the general health of the inmates of Notre Dame is excellent, notwithstanding all reports to the contraiy, and that there has never been any serious cause of alarm arising from ill health. Therefore let our friends be perfectly at rest on this point. We enjoy a serene mind and a solid constitution.
We wish also to warn our friends against epistles which for well known reasons are not mailed at the Notre Dame post office.	•
Letters of good students, containing reliable news, are mailed here and sent without delay to their destination. No letters are detained except such as may commit their writers, who in this case are politely warned of the detention of such letters.
These remarks are called for by the fact that a number of letters mailed in South Bend by the “I want to go home” baby—or the “I don’t like the grub” child—have been returned to the officers of the University, with inquiries as to the truth of the statements contained in the aforesaid letters.
St. Cecilia Pliilomatliean Association,
The 19th regular meeting of this Association was held on the 22d of January. The sub-jectof debate, “Resolved—That a Republican form of Government is preferable to a Monarchical ”— came on for discussion. Masters M. Mahony, F. P. Dwyer, F. W. Kaiser, and D. J. Egan, supported the affirmative; Masters C. Dodge, R. Staley, S. Ashton and D. Hogan defended the negative in an able manner. Among those who deserve special mention are M. Mahony, Scott Ashton, and F. Kaiser. Master J. Sutherland appeared to good advantage as a volunteer. The other volunteer speakers did remarkably well, and promise after a little further practice and some serious study to do much better.
The President then summed up the arguments and gave his decision in favor of the affirmative. He said that he would say more on this great question but he knew they were anxious to hear Prof.Foote, of the Law Department, whom he had invited to be present at the exercises of the evening.
Prof. Foote then being loudly called for, rose, and spoke substantially as follows:
After complimenting the Society on the successful manner in which the members engaged had treated the subject of debate, he proceeded to say that the best form of government for any people was that which was bets adapted to the genius and disposition of those for whom it had been made. Governments and rulers, call them by what name we may, are eminently and essentially the creatures of the people; and as these alone can and do make them, the moment they attempt to become faithless to their trust they ought to be displaced. Men no longer believe that rulers can do no wrong. The absurdity is exploded long since, and now we believe in the divine right of the people, under God, to make and to unmake kings and presidents in the same way as they make and unmake other instruments whose use they deem necessary for the prosperity and for the well being of society. God most certainly created, and wills the existence of society; and for that very reason it not only shall, but it must exist, in spite of the rant-ings of chimerical anarchists; but to man as a free agent He undoubtedly left the sovereign choice of giving shape and form to,the elements that enter into the government, and the preservation of social life; and of giving to these again names by which they might be known, and motion through the agency of what under various titles we call rulers—so that the end and the aim of society may be realized in the material as well as in the moral order. Those who affect to despise the power of the people to govern themselves, and who therefore hate a republican form of government, take the Reign of Terror in France as an example of the internal weakness of popular rule.' This is unfair. The sanguinary monstrosity created by Robespierre, Marat and Danton was no more a type of the republican form of government than Nero’s cruelty was of a genuine monarchy. You will never succeed in refuting any system, whether it be religious or political, by harping on the abuses which bad men have made of it; to judge rightlyof any institution or system you must either judge it by what it is, or by its own legitimate effects. If kingly governments be’ the most de-irable, all things considered, for some nations/ why let those nations, if they will, keep them. As for us, we believe and hold that a republic is superior in all respects to an empire or to a kingdom, and I am convinced that we are right. Let each of us always hold and stand by that conviction. Let us cherish in our fondest memory the recollections of the men of Valley Forge, who marched with naked feet and with
poorly clad bodies over ice and snow to meet in battle the enemies of their country, and who finally consecrated, by their blood, the soil which their strong arms and bold hearts made free.
We know well enough that our government is not faultlessly perfect Yet it is our government, and we are content with it; and hence, let those who deem themselves nobler and wiser than we are, sneer at our “ democratic rudeness;” it certainly taught kings and aristocrats that they were very fallible things, and that if they would preserve their crowns and their titles they must henceforth govern according to justice and humanity. This was a great work, achieved by “democratic rudeness;” and there is nothing in the work, nor in its consequences, of which we need be ashamed. It is our duty to preserve that work; and therefore, in what we teach and in what we learn, let it be our constant care to guard against and to counteract the atheistic materialism consequent upon our godless system of public education—which is fast, and very fast, sapping the foundations of our glorious and proud republic.
He also adverted in no complimentary terms to thegro wing custom of sending our youth toEurope for the purpose of getting a “ finished ” education, and said that instead of getting educated men back we generally get men finished only in courtly bows and etiquette, and dead for the most part to every patriotic feeling. Here in this veryUniver-sity we have all the proof we need that we possess at home the meansand the facility of obtaininga good, sound, Christian education. One may, indeed, be what is called a distinguished man, without morality; but though he possesses the physical power of Hercules and the intellectual greatness of Demosthenes he never can be called an educated man if he has neglected moral culture. Morality is the very soul of all true education.
The speaker also urged upon the students the necessity af attending to these principles, and of making the best possible use of the opportunities now afforded them, by unremitting application to their studies, and by a hearty and generous obedience to the rules which have been wisely established for the sake of good order, and which of necessity must be applied and enforced by those to whom has been committed the government of the institution.
The speaker was frequently applauded by the Society. He concluded his remarks by a humorous account of his own college experience, which made his audience laugh as heartily as they ever laughed before, and convinced them that, after all, the ills to which college life is heir are not such unbearable things; and that if students richly deserve the palm for “cutting up,” Prefects and Professors may well be pardoned if now and again they exercise the vanity of asking the world to give them some credit for indulgence and patience.
Prof. Foote sat down amidst rounds of applaus& The members were highly delighted with the Professor’s speech, and hope to have the pleasure to hear him very often during the coming session.
The 20th regular meeting was held on Thursday, Jan. 2lst. The President after payings well-deserved compliment to Masters J. W. Sutherland, F. Kaiser, and C. Marantette (now member^ of the Senior Department) for their manly conduct and devotedness while in the Society, called for a new election of officers, the result of which appeared in a former number of the Notre Dame Scholastic.	*
The 21st regular meeting took place Feb. 5th. At this meeting Masters C. English and William Fletcher presented themselves for membership, and after standing the test required by the rules of the Association, were elected members. The
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
declamations and essays were the next thing in order, after which the meeting adjourned.
D. Egan, Cor. Sec’y.
A CARD OF THANKS.
The members of the St. Cecilia Association return their grateful thanks to the members of the St. Aloyisus’ Philodemic and St. Edward’s Literary Association for their kind invitation to attend the literary exercises and debate in the large parlor, and they take this occasion to express the pleasure they enjoyed in being present at an entertainment in which so much talent and ability
were displayed.	D. Egan, Cor. Sec’y.
Arrival	of Students.
John S. Dunn,	St. Louis, Missouri.
John Gillespie,	Dexter, Michigan.
David Byler,	Leesburg, Indiana.
Frank D. Lauer,	Indianapolis, Indiana.
A S. Graven,	Pierceton, Indiana.
IL Gallagher,	New York.
Charles H. Peterson,	Chicago, Hlinois.
Thomas Dundon,	Clarksburg, Michigan.
Peter Coakley,	Clarksburg, Michigan.
A Trentman,	Fort Wayne, Indiana.
William H. Compton,	Pontiac, Michigan.
John A Kimball,	Indianapolis, Indiana.
C. E. Bouldin,	Sedalia, Missouri.
David J. Wile,	Laporte, Indiana.
Robert Lenge,	Muskegon, Michigan.
Table of Honor.
Senior Department—Jan 28th.
J. E. Garrity, J. A. Zahm, IL Barlow, J. R. Boyd, J. McGlynn, P. Hall, J. P. Kane and Wm. Roney.
February 4th.
J. 0. Eisenman, D. A. Clarke, J. C. Leunig, W. Waldo, J. A Dickinson, E. B. Walker, N. Mitchell, A Mooney, J. Sutherland and R. Power.
Junior Department—Jan. 28th.
F. J. Obert, C. Hutchings, H. Hug, D. J. Brown, S. Ashton, C. N. English, H. Potter, J. T. Foley, W. Meyers and J. L. Marshall.
February 4th.
L.	Hibben, H. Taylor, J. Kilcoin, A Barth, W. Dum, J. Taylor, S. Dum, J. W. Murphy, B. F. Roberts, W. Mulvaney and H. Ackhoff.
Senior Department.
J. HL Gcarin, A. W. Arrington, D. Tighe, J. E. Shannahan, P. S. Rhodes, F. Kaiser, M. Joy, J. P. Canavan, W. K. Roy, L. F. Wilson.
Junior Department. -
J. W. Wilstach, J. Rumely, L. McOsker, H. Kinkead, J. W. Buehler, A Hoerber, J. R. Kenrick, C. Ortmayer, J. Thompson, E. Shea, W. Odendahl.
Minim Department—Eeb. 11th.
M.	Weldon, G. Gross, S. Hopkins, 0. Tong, W. Byrne, E. De Groot.
Report of the Semi-Annual Examination.
(Continued from last number, Feb. 5th.)
First Grammar, Jr.—Master J. Maguire was promoted to Rhetoric. The other members of the class deserve much credit for their proficiency. Prof. Lyons will teach this class during the second session, Bro. Benjamin, who assumes the direction of the Third Class.
Second Class.—Are promoted to First Class Masters K. Espy, J. Dougherty, C. Morgan, J. Rumely and C. BerdeL Bro. Philip, teacher.
Third Class.—The members of this class who deserved to be promoted were Masters L. Marshall, J. Antoine, W. Odendahl to First Class; Masters M. Fitzgerald, J. Murphy, H. Potter, J. Hannaher, W. Kellog, R. Delahay, M. Melancon, J. Wey, J. Taylor, H. Ackoff, H. Taylor and L. Roth to Second Class. Brohter Camillus was teacher during the last session.
Fourth Class.—The members of this class who deserved the highest notes were Masters J. Glynn, W. Fletcher, G. Shaeffer, J. Echlin, J. McFarland, W. Meyer. This class is now united to the Third Class. Mr. E. Lilly was its teacher during the last session.
Fifth Class.—The promotions in this class were as follows: J. Mulvany, T. Burns, W. Fitzgerald, W. Dolemore, 0. Saiter, J. Kenrick, G. Summers, J. McCall and 0. Hoerber to Third Class. This class, taught by Bro. Albert the past session, is now under the direction of Bro. Alban.
First Orthography, Sr.—Messrs. R. Finley, T. Stratson, C. Clarke, P. Davis, R. Carton, W. Reily and E. Woolman were allowed to discontinue. Prof. W. T. Johnson teacher last session. Bro. Alban teacher this session.
Second Orthography.—Mr. Jos. Mulhall is allowed to discontinue. Otherwise the class does not undergo any change. Bro. Alban replaces Bro. Camillus as teacher. (Bro. Camillus having been appointed first prefect of the Senior Department, instead of Bro. Alban, the latter has been appointed to the classes taught by the former)
First Orthography, 1st. div., Jr.—All the members of this class have been permitted to discontinue. The highest notes were deserved by Masters L. Marshall, W. Gross, M. Moriarty, C. Berdel, R. Delahay, J. Cassella, J. Hannaher, M. Nolan, K Espy, C. Morgan, G. Lyons, P. McNamara, J. Goodhue, H. O’Neil, W. Fletcher and J. Goodhue. Bro. Benjamin, teacher.
First Orthography, 2d div.—The members of this class who are allowed to discontinue are Masters J. Dougherty, Thomas Foley, W. Kellogg, H. Ackoff, T. Burns, C. Forestal and J. Glynn. Bro. Celestine, teacher.
Second Orthography.—Are permitted to discontinue, Masters C. Vinson, J. Antoine and R. Costello; are promoted to First Class, Masters W. Fitzgerald, M Melancon, R. Echlin, J. Bracken and J. Kenrick. Bro. Emmanuel, teacher.
Third Orthography.—This class remains unchanged. It is composed ot thriving boys whose progress is worthy of mention. Bro. Raphael, teacher.
First Reading, Sr.—Among the best readers of this class we notice Messrs. W. Moyer, Thomas Ward, H. Clarke, E. Sweeny and P. Davis. This class was taught by Bro. Emmanuel during the past session, but is now under the direction of Bro. Philip.
• First Reading, Jr.—A class famous at Notre Dame for its accomplished readers and elocutionists. Among its best members we notice Masters C. Berdel, L. Marshall, H. O’Neil, J. Kilcoin, W. Gross, 0. Baker, J. McFarland and C. Morgan. Prof. J. A. Lyons, teacher.	.
Second Reading.—The progress of this class, has been remarkable during the session. Are promoted to First Class C. Hoffman, B. Vogt, L. Hibben and W. Fitzgerald. Bro. Benjamin, teacher.
Third Reading.—Are promoted to First Class Masters J. Echlin, IL Taylor, R. Costillo, L. Stwart—to Second Class, Masters 0. Palmer, P. Healey and W. Mulhall. Bro. Emmanuel teacher during last session, succeeded by Bro. RaphaeL '
First Geography, Sr.—Remains unchanged.
First Geography, Jr.—Will continue its course. A new text-book (Guyot’s) has been introduced in the class. The best members of the class are
Masters L. Marshall, C. Berdel, T. Foley, C. Vinson, H. Ackoff, M. Moriarty, J. McFarland, Wm. Browning, W. Wilstach. Bro. Benjamin, teacher.
Christian Doctrine, Sr.—Although this is not a regular class, still this important branch of studies is always made a subject of examination for the Catholic students. Those whose notes were highest are Messrs. D. A. Clarke, J. Zahm, J. Eisenman, N. Mitchell, D. Fitzgerald, J Staley, H. P. Morancy, P. Hohler, T. Dillon, D. Tighe, J. Gearin and N. Shelton.
Christian Doctrine, Jr.—The highest notes in this class were awarded to Masters J. Kilcoin,. T. Foley, J. Antoine and M. Nolan. Bro. Benjamin, teacher.
Scientific Department.
In this department the students whose proficiency appeared most conspicuous at the examination were as follows:
Chemistry.—D. A Clarke, A W. Arrington and W. Waldo. Rev. T. Vagnier, teacher.
Natural Philosophy.—A. W. Arrington, H. P. Morancy, D. A Clarke and R. McCarthy.
Physiology.—This class commences its course with the 2ud session. Rev. J. C. Carrier, teacher.
Zoology.—J. Gearin, F.Bodeman and J. Finley. Rev. J. C. Carrier, teacher.
Mineralogy.—F. Bodeman and D. A Clarke.
Rev. J. C. Carrier, teacher. •
Geology.—J. Gearin and F. Bodeman, Rev- J. C. Carrier, teacher.	.
Botany.—Commenced on 1st of February. Rev. J. C. Carrier, teacher.
Astronomy.—D. A Clarke, J. Finley and H. P. Morancy.
Surveying.—This Class has just commenced operations. Prof A J. Stace, teacher.
Trigonometry.—L. B. Logan and J. Finley. This class has gone through the course. A new class has already commenced, with Prof. Howard as teacher.
Analytical Geometry.—D. A Clarke, J. Gearin and H. P. Morancy. This class has also finished the regular course and commenced Calculus. Rev. T. Vagnier, teacher.
First Geometry.—F. Kaiser, D. Fitzgerald, N. Mitchell and H. Barlow.
Second Geometry.—A new class, just formed, and taught by Prof. W. Ivers.
Second Algebra, 1st. div.—Messrs. J. Zilim and L. B. Logan received the highest notes. Prof W. Ivers, teacher.
Second Algebra, 2d div.—Are promoted to 1st division Messrs. D. Brown, F. Kaiser and B. Mathers. Prof A. J. Stace, teacher.	‘
Third Algebra.—No change. Prof. W. Ivers bad charge of this class during the first session. Prof T. A Howard teacher during the 2nd session.
Fourth Algebra—This is a beginning class, under Prof. W. T. Johnson.
' Languages.
First French.—Mr. J. Gearin deserves special mention for his proficiency. The progress of Messrs. F. Dwyer and M Mahony is also commendable.
Second French.—W. Ryan, W. B. Clarke and J. Antoine obtained the highest notes. Mr. Jacob Lauth, teacher.
Third French.—A. beginning class, composed . of Senior students. '
First German, Sr.—The highest notes were awarded to Messrs. F. Kaiser, D. Clarke and C. Duffy. Rev. P. Lauth, teacher.
Second German.—The highest notes were awarded to Messrs. C. Hutchings, D. Egan, J. B. Boyd, R. Staley, T. Dillon and D. Fitzgerald. Mr. John Lauth, teacher.
Third German.—Among those who deserved the highest notes are Messrs, J. Leunig, W. K. Roy and J. Broderick. Mr. Jacob Lauth, teacher.




I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
95
Fourth German.—A new class, just commenced. Prof. JI. A. J. Baasen, teacher.
First German, Jr.—The largest and most proficient class. The best notes were deserved by Messrs J. Staley, G. Hug, J. Rumely, J. Buhler W. S. Meyer and C. Ortmayer. Rev. P. Lauth, teacher.
Second German.—Messrs. 0. Walter, C. Berdel, J. Dougherty, F. Karst and F. Obert received the highest notes. Mr. John Lauth, teacher.
Third German.—Among the most proficient at the examination we notice the following: Messrs. S. Legault, J. Walsh, H. White, H. Ackoffand W. B. Clarke. Prof. M. Baasen, teacher.
Fourth Class.—A. new class, formed of the members of the 4th Class who were not promoted, and of beginners. Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, teacher.
Modern History.—W. Waldo, E. B Walker and E. Fitzharris.
Drawing.—Contrary to expectations, the drawing classes were not examined. The specimens prepared by the students of the class were not produced. An examination of the class will take place at an early opportunity, and a new spirit will be infused into that department of art. We have every reason and right to expect that this branch will receive more attention in future.
Music.—Both instrumental and vocal music will be examined in June. This department seems to prosper very satisfactorily, and numbers a very large attendance—upwards of one hundred students.' We will soon have an opportunity of noticing at length its present condition, and mentioning the names of the most successful musicians. Music at Notre Dame will receive a new impetus during the second session, and we doubt not to see this branch of study raised to its highest degree of perfection within the space of a few more years.
We will continue in the next number of the Scholastic to give a few more items of interest concerning the studies of the first session.
The classes of the second session are now in perfect working order, with fair prospects ahead till the next examination,-whose pleasant feature is to be the forerunner of the Annual Commencement.
Book-keeping.
The examination of the Book-keeping classes took place Jan. 31. Diplomas were awarded to W. K. Roy, Palmyra, Mo., and Laurence Wilson, Trenton, N. J. The attendance during the session ending Jan. 31, was fully as large as last year. The classes were reorganized Feb. 3, and now comprise four classes, with a total attendance of eighty students. Prof. L. G. Tong, teacher.
The highest notes at the examination were awarded as follows:
First Class —W. K. Roy, L. Wilson, W. H. Murphy, J. Coffey, J. Leunig, J. Sutherland, T. Lappin.
Second Class.—J. Eisenman, S. Dum, E. Mullen, E. B Gambee, T. Dillon, J. P. Cannovan, K. I Espy, D J. Brown, T. H. Grier, W. Dum, S. Ashton, J. Cassella, C. Daffy, J. McGuire, J. Looby G. Holman.
3d and 4th Classes.—J. Orff, S. Morrison, R. S. Carton, L. 31. Gibson, W. Roney, W. Roberts, R. Crenshaw, F. B. Sheppard, W. Kiely, R. Long, 0. Bell, T. McNamara, A Riopelle.
The St. Cecilians at Wiles.
By virtue of an invitation from the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, I spent a very pleasant day, on the 16th inst, at Niles, Mich. Niles is a handsome, thriving little city of about, I think, six thousand inhabitants, on the St. Joseph’s river. It is compactly built; and in point of ho
tel accommodations it would be difficult, perhaps not possible, to find its equal in the Northwest, outside of the great city of Chicago. The “Reading House” is a first-class hotel, in its extent, in its arrangements, and in everyone of its details. The Professors and Students of the University of Notre Dame are always well received there, and those of them who were at Niles on the 16th, do especially return their thanks to the gentlemanly proprietor of that house, for his kind and successful endeavors to make their visit a pleasant one. The traveling public can rely on finding every attention and reasonable accommodation at this really excellent hotel. In point of population, and general go akeaditweness, I have no hesitation in saying that South Bend is the Chicago of all the flourishing cities on the St. Joseph. Not to speak of its general prosperity and enterprise, the numerous and extensive factories which have been erected within its fast extending limits during the last year are quite sufficient proof of the progressive tendency and the commendable public spirit of its citizens. Yet in two things South Bend is not equal to Niles,—namely, in hotels and in bridges. It has no “Reading House,” and its single wooded imitation of a bridge would not be creditable even to a dying village like Bertrand. South Bend is able to have, and deserves to have, and needs to have, and therefore ought to have, at least two such bridges as the magnifi cent iron one that spans the St. Joseph at Niles I have also been informed that excursion parties from Niles to South Bend complain of the exorbitant pricescliarged by the hotel keepersofthelat-ter city. If this be so, both policy and justice suggest the application of a change of tactics on such occasions.
As to the general conduct of the St. Cecilians during the day, I have only to say that it was irreproachable. They not only deported and enjoyed themselves well, but they also took special pains to render the occasion pleasant and enjoyable for all those whom they were kind enough to invite to their festival. Prof. J. A. Lyons is the President of this Society, and it must be said that the success of the excursion is mainly, if not entirely, due to his efforts. Indeed Prof. Lyons deserves the fullest praise for the disinterested zeal with which he has at all times devoted himself to the progress and the instruction of his favorite association. The Vice President, Rev. Father Lemonnier, and Rev. Father Uombel, andalsoProfessors Corby and Foote, were among the invited guests. After leaving the “Reading House” the whole party crossed over the bridge, and made a detour by the residence of that most excellent priest, Rev. Father Cappon, for the purpose of paying him their res pects. The zeal of Rev. Father Cappon is manifested in the erection of a magnificent brick church which is certainly one of the finest in the State. I understand it has cost over thirty-thousand dollars. From the eminence or bluff on which it is built, it overlooks the handsome little city of Niles, as well as the swiftly rushing waters of the historic St. Joseph; and with its sacred emblem of man’s salvation rising towards the skies,—that emblem so religiously dear to every Catholic heart,—stirs up in the soul the happy memories that still bring us back through, long silent years to the days of Marquette and the other heroic and glorious French missionaries who raised the cross in the solitudes of the North-west, and who gave its wild children the religion of Christ, and its lakes and rivers the names of His saints! Father Cappon is a worthy successor of those good and great priests.
On our way back through the town, the St. Cecilians let jokes and puns fly right and left at
the expense of numbers of Nilesian urchins who seemed as if they had been “just let loose from school,” and who with characteristic school-boy pluck refused to accept the compliments for nothing. After we got under full headway on what the admiring patrons of the turf call the homestretch, the road was enlivened by good hearty . singing, and this with the spirited teams of Mr. Hatch, rapidly and almost imperceptibly shortened the distance between us and Notre Dames. When we got within half a mile of the residence of Professor Howard, the boys held what might be called a council in transitu, for the purpose of repeating the compliment of the morning, and accordingly when they came opposite the house, they gave three rousing cheers—such as college boys only can give,—to testify their respect and esteem for one whose gentlemanly bearing and generous disposition have endeared him to students and Professors alike at the University. In conclusion, Mr. Hatch deserves the compliment of saying that his livery stable appointments are not excelled anywhere, and are a credit to South Bend. His rates of charge are most reasonable, his horses are splendid, and every one of his drivers is kind,
P^N. D.
attentive and skillful.
CELEBRATION, (Literary, Musical, and Dramatic) —IX HONOR OF—
Members of the Thespian, Philharmonic, and Philomathian Associations
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Tuesday Evening, Feb. 22,1870.
Part First. Introductory—Washington’s March,
N. D. U. Cornet Band *	Orchestra
Overture -Zampa “Sabbath Day’’—Quartet— f (C. Kreutzer.)	(
E. B. Walker, X and G. Riopelle
H. P. Morancy, J. Thiel.
D. A. Clarke
Oration—u Washington.”
Duetto—“from Semiramide,” Ballad—(F. Gombert), Junior Oration.
Vienie la mia VendctU—(Lucrezia Borgia),
Speech—from >t. Cecilia Society, Ballad—(C. Baker),
IL Staley M Mahony E. B. Walker C. Berdel X Riopelle R Staley
Declamation,	.	-
College song—“ Gaudeamus,”—Quar- JR. Staley, C. Hutchings tet of Soprani,	{ M. Mah*»ny, J. Rumely
“ Star Spangled Banner,”	N. D. U. Cornet Baud
Overture—** Taucred,”—{Rossini),	Orchestra
Part Second.
ELMA, THE DRUID MARTYR.
A Tragedy in Three Acts.
Sy the Thespian Dramatic Association.
Nori—Arch-Druid, ------ T. X Dillon Elma—His Grandson •	•	-	*	-	J.	C. Eisenman
Oawin—Priest aud Wizard -	-	-	-	-	L. B Logan
Kollo—Druid Military Chieftain	-	-	-	-	J. A. Fox
Adulph—Bard...........................-	L. Wilson
Februuius —Roman Tribune and father of Elma..H P. Morancy
Statius—Roman Centunun 2^11 I Druid Officers Leruic j First Roman Guard -Second Roman Guard -First Druid Soldier • Second Druid Soldier -After First Act......
• A. W. Arrington (J. Sutherland (J. Mulhall
-	- J. K Finley
- J. W. Murphy - . John Duffy - - W. Roberts N.D.U. Cornet Band
Alter Second Act—(Haydn's 12th Symphony).... Orchestra After Third Act....................N.	D. U. Cornet Band
Part Third. Waltz—(Strauss)................................Orcheetra
THE YANKEE PEDDLER. A. Farce In One A.ct. By ths Thespian Dramatic Association.
Hiram Dodge—The Peddler Mr Fuller -	-	-
Mark Fuller -	-	-
Jerusbus	-	-	-	.
Cowpens	-	-	-	-
Charles -	-	-	-
Slingsby	-	-	•	■
Jeuuings •	-	-
Pompey -	-	-
Dick .... Closing Remarks.......... March tor Retiring ........
- H.P. Morancy - J. C. Eisenman -	-	T. A. Dillon
.	-	L.B. Logan
•	- J Mulhall
- J. W. Murphy •	-	- J. Duffy
-	- L. Wilson
- J. Sutherland , jf. D. U. Cornet Band

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Aloysius Pliilodcmic Association.
Messrs. Editors :—On Wednesday morning, of the 2nd inst., a special meeting of the abovenamed Association was held for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing session, which resulted as follows :
President—Rev. D. J. Spillard, S. S, C.
Vice-President— James K. Finley.
liecording Secretary—John A. Zahm.
Corresponding Secretary—J. M. Moriarty.
Treasurer—John M. Gearin.	.
Librarian—Thomas M. Johnson.
Ass't Librarian—J. A. Dickinson.
Censor—Thomas A. Dillon.
The fifteenth regular meeting of this Association took place on Friday evening, Feb. 15th. After the business of the Society had been transacted, Mr. J. A. Dickinson delivered, in a very pleasing manner, a declamation entitled “ Socra tes Snooks.”
The debate being next in order the following question was discussed: Resolved, “ That the Catholics ought to have a separate School Fund.” Messrs. J. K. Finley and H. P. Morancy were on the affirmative, while Messrs. J. A. Zahm and J. A. Dickinson supported the negative.
The maner in which the debate was carried on made it not only instructive, but also veiy interesting to all present. After a summary of the arguments brought forward by both sides, the President gve his decision in favor of the affirmative.
After the debate, the “ Two-Penny Gazette"— a highly interesting paper conducted by six of the members—was read, and, as usual, elicited applause from all who had the pleasure of hearing it.
The Philodemics though now small in number in comparison to last session (owing to the departure of some" of their ablest members, whom stem duty had obliged to leave the University, and the sickness of others), are rapidly recruiting their former strength, and have bright prospects before them, wbich.they are determined to turn to the most beneficial mode of improvement.
J. M. Moriarty,
Cor. Sec.
■ [CORRESPONDENCE.]
St. Mary’s Academy, Feb., 1870.
To the great delight of all the pupils at St. Mary’s Academy, the semi-annual examination is over; and, now full of confidence in their ability to win high honors at the close of the scholastic year, they have resumed their studies with renewed energy and earnest attention.
As a reward for the devoted application and amiable dispositions shown by the young ladies during the past term, at the close of the examination two extra days of recreation were granted them. The weather was propitious to the lovers of sleighing parties, therefore a mammoth sleighride was proposed. On the 31st ult five excursion sleighs, crowded with merry girls, left the Academy at 9 A. M., for Niles. The Sisters who accompanied them had provided a lunch for the occasion, as the oyster supper (the usual accompaniment of sleighrides), was to be taken at St. Mary’s at 6 P. M. All returned in fine spirits, well prepared to enjoy the feast. The advantages of the day were recounted with great animation to the prudent ones, who, through fear of “Jack Frost,” had prepared to enjoy themselves at home.
During the sleighing season many opportunities were given to the pupils to make short excursions, in small detachments, so that all might enjoy the exhilirating pleasure of a sleighride.
A musical soiree and dramatic entertainment, with reading, “ fancy work,” and pleasant games, formed the indoor amusements of these few days of extra recreation. On Friday morning, the 4th inst., classes were resumed with renewed energy, each pupil hopefully looking forward to the close of the session for the reward of her labors.
We are happy to say to anxious parents and friends that the pupils enjoy most excellent health. The slight ailments which demand the attention of the Infirmarian are such as create no uneasiness, even in the minds of those to whom they minister. The punctuality of all at the regular meals, the glow of health on their cheeks, and their evident capacity to enjoy life, plainly prove that we have no valetudinarians among us. Should any absentees try to create a panic in the minds of the credulous, please understand that said panic-makers belong to a class of pupils who, when at school, are constitutionally fatigued, and therefore unable to appreciate the advantages of mental labor.	.
A number of new arrivals has swelled the list to two hundred pupils. This proves that the erection of additioual buildings, in accordance with the original design of the Academy, must be immediately pushed forward to meet the increasing demand for more room, caused by the influx of pupils from every section of the United States.
ARRIVALS.
BentonHarbor, Mich.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Hlinois.
Bryan, Iowa.
Miss N. Burridge, K. Young, J. Hoerber, J. Miller, L. Sutherland, A. Borup, L. Beaupre, B. Randal, E. McShea, J. Brown, E. Wilber, H. Conatz,
Conatz, C. Conatz, C. Davenport, C. Eason, M. McBrien, HL Walton, F. Smith, N. Thomson, M. Shanks, H. Chamberlain, M. Bucklin,
Englewood, Hlinois. St. Paul, Minnesota. St. Paul, Minnesota. Joliet, Illinois.
Wabash, Indiana. Detroit, Michigan. Laporte, Indiana.
McConnell’s Grove, ' McConnell’s Grove, McConnell’s Grove, i Elkhart, Indiana. Laporte, Indiana. Batavia, Hlinois.
Ypsilanti, Michigan.
in. 11L m.
Peoria, Hlinois.
Detroit, Michigan.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Elkhart, Indiana.
Elkhart, Indiana.
The semi-annual examination closed on the 31st of January. The pupils, generally, acquitted themselves in a manner highly satisfactory to all concerned.’ The progress made in the various branches taught, during the past term, indicated much aptitude and close application on the part of the pupils, giving great promise for their future success.
An exact account of the standing of each pupil has already been forwarded to parents and guardians. The programme of the present term, has been made out with due consideration for the individual improvement of the scholars, all of whom have recommenced their studies with an earnestness of purpose that will insure success.
TABLE OF HONOR.
Sr. D’pt, Feb. 6: Misses A. Mulhall, A. and E. Ewing, E. Kirwin, J. Arrington, A. Cunnea, A.
Carmody C. Foote, E. Henry, S. O’Brien, C. Bertrand, M. Blanger.
Jr. D’pt, Feb. 2: Misses A. Clarke, M. Kreutzer, R. Leoni, L. Thompson, .M. and J. Kearney, L. Davis, M. and B. Quan, K. and M. Hutchinson, F. Taylor.
Feb. 9: N. Gross, L. Kiel, M A. Roberts, G. Darling, A. Byrne, R. Canoil, L. Harrison, B. Henry, N. O’Meara, L. McKinnon.
HONORABLE MENTION.
1st Senior Class: E. Linsday, H. Niel, B. O’Neil, K. Carpenter, B. Bryan, L. English, C. Kirwin, A. Sturgis, M. Beam, A. Locke, N. Moriarty, K. Young.
2d Senior: M.Dillon, L.Marshall, M. Tuberty, M. Sherland, J. Hogue, L. Ramsdill, C. Kellogg, N. Krnel, J. Forbes, F. Swiegman, M. Murphy, B. Gardner.
3d Senior: A. Mast, M. Cochrane, J. Kinsella, J. D’Arcy, K. O’Toole, J. Walker, A. Jennings, L. Qualy, K. Zell, M. Lassen, M. Lange.
1st Preparatory: V. Leoni, J. Leoni, L. Martin, A. Montgomery, L. Carver, A. Holeman, F. Sharp, C. Sharp, L. Dooly, C. Edwards, E. Tibbitts, M. Ford, N. Burridge, L. Sutherland.
2d Preparatory: J. Hoerber, J. Falvey, F. Fox, R. Fox, M. Carpenter, I. Wilder, B. Cable, M. Letourneau, HL Wicker, M. Stoctree, R. Nelson, J. Davis.
3d Preparatory: M. Landgraff, A. Hayes, E. Price, M. Coffey, S. Roach, L. Price, D. Jennings, L. McFarland, M. Walker.
Instrumental music—:
1st Class: C. Foote, A. Mulhall, M. Sherland.
2d div.: J. Walker, M. Kirwin, A. Montgomery, A. Ewing.
2d Class: G. Arrington, L. English.
2d div.: K. Carpenter.
3d Class: H. Niel, F. Sharp, C. Sharp.
2d. div.: B. O’Neil, J. D’Arcy, S.Swegman, A. Locke.
4th Class: L. Davis, J. Murphy, S. Hogue.
2d div.: L. Thompson, M. O’Toole.
Sth Class: J. Kearney, A. Cunnea.
2d div.: L. McFarland, B. Frensdorf, B. Cable.
6th Class: M. Landgraff, A. Jennings.
5d div.: R. Fox, N. Gross, F. Woolman.
7th Class: V. Leoni, D. Jennings, Miss Beam.
8th Class: M. Hutchinson, A. McKennon.
9th Class: R. Canoil.
Harp: M. Sherland.
1st French: E. Ewing, E. Langsdorf, M. Sherland, F. Messmore, M. Doty, K. Carpenter.
2d French: HL Wood, H. Niel, N. Robinson, J. Forbs, B. O'Neil, A. Montgomery. .
3d French: A. Hurst, N. Gross, L. Marshall, E. Kirwan, N. Cochrane.
4th French: E. Linsday, L. English, C. Foote, J. Walker, E. Horten.
1st German: G. Arrington.	.
2d German: E. Henry, M Kreutzer.
1st Drawing: K. Young, A. Ewing, L. Marten, E. Kirwan, E. Horten, A. Robson, E. Henry, K. Robinson.	v
2d Drawing: HL Dillon, B. Gardner, L. Mar. shall, A. Cunnea, M. Lasson, A. Wood.
Oil Painting: M. Beam, E. Horton.
Water Color Painting—1st Class: K. Young, L. Marten, E. Kirwan, K. Robinson, E. Henry, 2d Class: L. Marshall, A. Robson. ' 1st Preparatory: M.’Kearney, R. Leoni.
2d Preparatory: L. McNamara, L. Thompson, HL Kerutzer, M. Quan.
3d Preparatory: J. Kearney, A. Garrity, K. Hutchinson.
1st Junior: M. Hutchinspn, B. Quan.
2d Junior: M. Shannon.