^otre Dame Scholastic.
DIsce quasi semper vlcturus; vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.	NOTBE DAME, INDI AH’A, NOVEMBER 25, 1876.	Number 12.
The Sacred Heart.
i.
0 ye seraphs bright!
Full of love and light,
Come and teach onr souls your tender art:
All aglow with zeal,
Round our Lord to kneel.
To adore and bless His Sacred Heart.
Source of ev’ry good,
Lo I the Precious Blood
Floweth ever from the depths thereof.
O most Sacked Heart !
To our souls impart
All the treasures of Thy grace and love !
Hail the Heart of Jesus !
Sweetest Gift of God!
Bid the joyous breezes
Bear Its praise abroad !
Ah ! behold the Heart that has lov’d mankind
With the love of truest Friend;
Pain, reproach and scorn for our sakes has borne,
—Loved us to the end!
ix.
In this dwelling-place
Of the purest grace
Sits the glory of the King of kings.
From the golden shrine
Of this Heart Divine
Doubt and darkness flee, like evil things.
Here our sorest grief
Finds a sweet relief,
And the tried and tempted hide from sin ;
Here the saints abound
Tn a peace profound,
And the weeping sinners pardon win.
Hail! the Heart of Jesus !
Grandest Gift of God !
Bid the joyous breezes
Bear Its praise abroad!
Ah! belovdd Heart, let Thy flaming dart
Burn and glow in ev’ry breast;
Lead us, Love Supreme! thro’ life’s troubled dream To eternal rest!
Praise the Sacred Heart !
(Grateful souls adore,)
Love the Sacred Heart, Now and evermore!
_______________ E. C. D.
—A memorial Cross has recently been erected in Dublin. in honor of the “Four Masters,” Franciscans, who, two and a half centuries ago. transcribed and compiled the Irish national “Annals,” which have afforded a rich fund to subsequent historians. The Cross of Dungannon sandstone, is nine feet three inches in height, the whole structure, including basSand stepped platform on which it rests, having an elevation of about fifteen feet.
Prof. Huxley’s First Lecture.
The New York Times speaks of Prof. Huxley’s method as being slow, precise, and clear, and that he guards with astuteness and ability the position which he takes. Now these attributes may be possessed by Prof. Huxley, but we and many others with us, think that he is travelling in the wrong direction and loses himself in the regions of philosophy. It is but too true that physical science ceases to exist to-day, and that physical philosophy takes its place. Mr. Huxley evidently transgresses the bounds of nature, allowing himself to be carried away by metaphysical arguments. We do not write these lines through religious prejudice, but in the cause of physical science. Prof. Huxley deserves great credit—and no one can deny it to him— for his researches in the physicd sciences; he is one of the leading naturalists or rather physicists of the present time, but he should confine himself to tenable theories. Before entering into discussion with him, it would be well for us to remark that what we are going to say may not be entirely deserved by the Professor in his First American Lecture, but at the same time we must remember that all the views and statements criticised are implied in those expressions, though not openly expressed; the careful student of Huxley can detect the materialist of old, we mean the philosopher of Edinburgh and Belfast notoriety.
The first line of Prof. Huxley’s first lecture strikes the blow of an evolutionist, and of an evolutionist of the Huxley kind. He says: “ We live and form a part of a system of immense diversity, which we call Nature, etc.” True, man forms a part of nature, but not in the sense Mr. Huxley takes it Man; consisting of soul and body, hasv also, two natures—an animal nature and a spiritual nature,— and therefore man cannot belong to nature as Mr. Huxley understands the word nature; as Prof. Agassiz says of man’s nature: “ He may sink as low as the lowest of his type [with his animal nature, i. e., that part of man which connects him with the animal kingdom], or he may rise to a spiritual height that will make that [his soul] which distinguishes him from the rest far more the controlling element of his being than that [his body] which unites him with them.” Professor Huxley further states in his lecture: “But we must recollect that any hitman belief, however broad its basis, however dependable it may seem, is, after all, only a probable belief, and that our broadest generalizations are simply the highest degree of probability.” If human belief or certainty be only a probability, then certainty and probability are identical, which would be as much as to say that Mr. Huxley and Mr. Haekel are the same individual, or that an ink-bottle and a window are the same thing, which would be absurd. And if this be the case, where is the use in Mr. Huxley trying to con-
178
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
vince his audience, by arguments, of the certainty of his hypothesis? If there be no certainty, then Mr. Huxley can not adhere to any of his three hypotheses concerning the origin of the world.
If Prof. Huxley disguises only his disbelief in certainty in the above sentence, it is probably an art of his, simply to deceive. Read his Lay Sermons, and you will be fully convinced of his views. In one place he says: “ It is conceivable that some po werful and malicious being may find his pleasure in deluding us, and in making us believe [he denies belief] the thing which is not every moment of our lives.”—Lay Sermons, p. 356.
Prof. Huxley clearly expresses himself as belonging to the agnostic school of philosophy. His position in regard to man’s knowledge with certitude is well expressed in the Dublin Review for July, 1873, in the article on Mr. Mill’s reply to the Dublin Review. The Review says: “ Let us observe the Professor’s philosophical position. It is his principle that men know nothing with certitude except their present consciousness. Now, on this principle, it is just as absurd to say that the facts testified to by memory are probably, as they are certainly, true. What can be more violently unscientific, we ask (p. 50, note)—from the standpoint of experimental sc:ence—than to assume without grounds as ever so faintly probable the very singular proposition that mental phenomena (by some entirely unknown law) have proceeded in such a fashion that my clear impression of the past corresponds with my past experience? Prof. Huxley possesses, no doubt, signal ability in his own line; but surely as a mitaphysician he exhibits a sorry spectacle. He busies himself in his latter capacity with diligently overthrowing the only principle on which his researches as a physicist can have value or even meaning.”
In his lecture, Mr. Huxley says, further: “ And although we might be quite clear about the consistency of Nature at the present time and in the present order of things, it by no means follows necessarily that we are justified in extending that generalization into the past; and denying absolutely that there may have been a time when events did not follow a constant order, when relations of cause and effect were not fixed and definite, and when external agencies did not intervene in the general course of Nature, the cautious man will admit that there may be a world in which two and two do not make four, and in which two straight lines do not enclose a space.” We do not see anjr reason, and Prof. Huxley does not give any either, why we should not extend dur certainty about the consistency of Nature in the past. Why should Nature obey at the present time laws other than those in the past? Where did these laws come in? And who gives these new laws of consistency now? How can Nature work without any design? If events, at any time in the past, did not follow a constant order, then they must have followed a constant disorder, and the world must have been brought to its present state by haphazard, which necessarily precludes the workings of Divine Providence. Our view of the creation of the present state is that God having in the beginning created this world, and instituted those laws which we call the physical laws of the universe, the present state of the world has been brought about by the constant agency of those laws. What these laws are, no one can know except the Creator. The evolutionists of the school of Darwin and Huxley merely think they know them, one saying the present state was brought about by natural selection, the other by evolution.	•
As to the assertion that we cannot deny absolutely that-there was a time when relations of cause and effect were not fixed and definite, we reply that if these relations were not fixed and definite, then they must have worked blindly, which would preclude the Divine intelligence in God’s laws, i. e.. instituting laws without determining the effects of those laws. ^The same as if a man were to go and make a machine, without knowing what purpose it would serve, and, having finished it, set it to work, to produce by the same machine thousands of different objects; a ridiculous idea, as everyone knows that if a machine would produce a complicated object the inventor of that machine must first put into it a great deal of fixed intelligence, so to say. Mr. Huxley in denying the absolute relationship of cause and effect being fixed and definite, would lead us to infer that a sewing-machine can, or could at some time past, thresh as well as sew. The relation between a sewingmachine and sewing is fixed and definite, whilst the relation between a sewing-machine and any other effect from any other machine necessarily cannot exist, for threshing cannot be done by any other than a threshing-machine.
As to the hypotheses that “ there may be a world where two and two do not make four, or where two straight lines do not enclose a space ”: that two and two make four and that two straight lines enclose a space are primary truths, which cannot be denied without denying truth at the same time. Our internal conviction tells us that two and two make four: that it is consequently a truth: once a truth, it cannot be otherwise: for if otherwise God would have deceived us in convincing us of something being true which in another case may be false. Truth and falsehood in the same sentence cannot be; it can only be either the one or the other.
Mr. Huxley says that he knows only of three hypotheses which have ever been entertained in regard to the origin or course of Nature. The first, he says, is that the present course of Nature or the present order of things has subsisted from all eternity; secondly, the hypothesis of sudden origin; and thirdly, the hypothesis of evolution. Having stated the three hypotheses, he goes on to develop them, but only to develop them in his own manner. This being done, or rather the hj-potheses stated, he seeks for a test to try of what material they are made, whether they can endure the shower of objections hurled against them. Mr. Huxley takes for test circumstantial evidence, one species of historical evidence, leaving aside what should be regarded also in this case, testimonial evidence, obtained from Holy Writ. The learned Professor, telling us what he means by these two kinds of evidence, says: “By testimonial evidence I mean human testimony, either direct or indirect; and by circumstantial evidence I mean evidence not from human testimony;” adding, as an illustration: “Suppose a man tell you that he saw a person strike another and kill him. That is testimonial evidence of the fact of murder. Or you may find a man dying, with a wound upon his head having exactly the form and character of a wound which is made by an axe, this is a case of circumstantial evidence, and, with due precaution, you may conclude with the utmost certainty that the man has been murdered, and is dying in consequence of a wound inflicted by that implement." But we cannot see that circumstantial evidence, as stated further on, is better, in the case Prof. Huxley refers to, than testimonial, if had in a sufficient degree. To him, and to many others rejecting Holy Writ, testimonial evidence may be of no use in regard to explaining the origin and the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
179

continual course of Nature, but to the Christian, or rather the Catholic—or, if you wish, to any true philosopher— testimonial evidence is of very great moment in this case.
Mr. Huxley next takes up the testing of the different hypotheses by circumstantial evidence. He has easy work to refute the hypothesis of the eternity of the world’s duration. A very good and credible proof of this untenable hypothesis Mr. Huxley gives in the following words: “ For in order to testify to the eternity of duration, you must have an eternity of witnesses or an infinite series of circumstances, and neither of these is attainable.” He then takes circumstantial evidence and tests the hypothesis in order to find out whether it is tenable or not, which last he finds, necessarily, from the circumstances of the stratifications in the earth’s crust; if Nature were eternal, then these stratifications would be without end; but we find that below the Silurian ages stratification ceases. Therefore the circumstance to testify in this case not being eternal, neither can Nature be eternal. Indeed the Professor concludes his testing of this first hypothesis with the following words: “The hypothesis of the eternity of the present condition of things may therefore be put out of court altogether.” .
It seems, if we are not mistaken, that the Professor is not quite consistent in his paragraph entitled “The Eternity of the World’s Duration.” For at one time he speaks about the theory of the eternity of the world being untenable (which he smarted to prove), but concludes only with the argument that the eternity of the present condition of things is not tenable, or in other words he holds that the evolution of the higher species from the lower cannot be carried up to eternity, butthat there was a time when evolution started. This he tries to prove from the gradually higher developed fossil remains from the lowest formation up to the last period. But be this as it may, neither the one nor the other can be accepted—i. e., neither can we accept evolution from eternity nor from some starting-point. For if evolution be true, then we must find in the Silurian ages only microscopic beings, and as simple in structure a® possible; nay, here we should find rather that gelatinous substance which never existed, nor does exist, except in the imagination of evolutionists. I repeat, it is not out of religious spite that we come to such conclusions, but it is our honest conviction, strengthened by the reading of works like that of Mr. Mivart’s “ Genesis of Species, or Lessons of Nature.”
The next hypothesis Mr. Huxley calls the Miltonic Hypothesis (and he has weighty reasons for calling it so, according to his own statement). We know his reasons. He dares not touch the history of Creation as given in Holy Writ; and he has his reasons, and very weighty ones too. He knows that its teaching would not be so easy to refute as that of Milton, for it leaves greater freedom of interpretation. Saying that Miltonic Hypothesis is only another term for the more familiar names, such as the doctrine of creation, or the Biblical doctrine, or the doctrine of Moses we would advise Mr. Huxley to go and read the Catholic authors who have written concerning the doctrine of Creation as laid down in Holy Writ and he will surely make a distinction between it and the Creation as understood and taught by John Milton in his “Paradise Lost.” If Mr. Huxley in refuting the comment of John Milton thinks to -refute the history of creation as given by Moses, he is greatly mistaken; and the paragraph entitled the Miltonic Hypothesis is evidently intended,.if not to strike a.blow at the.history of the creation as related by Moses, at least to
weaken it as much as lay in his power. He is like a man who wishes to strike, but hesitates, through fear of being overpowered by his enemy; therefore he seeks to weaken this enemy before attempting to strike the blow.
I think it would be a little more becoming of Mr. Huxley not to despise philological studies as well as scientific facts. His evident attempts to bring the Hebrew language into disrepute, and even to render it despicable, are not very edifying. This manner of acting, however, is that common to any man who pursues one study to the exclusion of all others; but it is a mistake, and a manner of proceeding that is little calculated to advance one in the path of truth. If Mr. Huxley has a prejudice against the old and venerable language of the Israelites, we cannot help him; but if he understands German (we do not know whether he reads that language or not, but Mr. Haekel may explain him that passage) we would refer him to read seven lines in Prof. Sibck’s Philosophy on page 398, letter C.
In the next paragraph of his lecture, Mr. Huxley tests the Miltonic view of the Mosaic history of creation, but in disproving Milton’s view we reiterate that he does not by any means disprove the history of the creation as given by Moses. For example, there are a great many theologians and fathers of the Church who do not accept the view of Milton at all (and we would here like to recall to the reader’s memory the statement of the Professor in the first part of his lecture that he expresses his knowledge only of three hypotheses of the origin of Nature). The view of Milton concerning the six natural days of creation cannot be the view of Moses, for these days may be understood—and so they are by a great many fathers of the Church—as long periods, long enough to allow those formations on the earth’s crust. This, however, is not our view of creation; we would rather accept another. The days spoken of in Genesis cannot be taken as natural days (the Miltonic view of them), nor are they to be taken as extremely long periods. Moses did not enumerate the appearance of the different created beings, in their natural succession, but according to the four elements of the ancients,—i. e., first light, then air then water, and lastly earth; so Moses cannot mean any fixed period of time by the expression of days. St. Augustine already manifested the difficulty of explaining the meaning of the word day. He says: “ Of what kind these days are, is very difficult, nay impossible, to conceive, and how much more so to explain: “ Quis dies, cujusmodi sint, aut per difficile nobis, aut etiam impossibile est cogitare, . quanto magio dicere. (De Civ. Dei, xi; c. 6 ) But it was clear to him that we cannot understand by this term natural days, for, he says, we see that these days now have an evening, in that the sun sets, and a morning, in that the sun rises; but those three first days of creation are not determined by the sun, of whom it is said that he appeared but on the fourth day. “ Videmus quippe istos dies notos non habere vesperam nisi de solis occasu, nec man^ nisi de solis ortu: illorum autem priores tres dies sine sole peracti sunt qui quarto die factus refertur (Ibid., xi; c. 7.) It was also for this reason that St. Augustine did not accept the sentence, “ And it was evening and morning,” in its common meaning, but he took ‘evening ’ and ‘ morning’ as synonymous with ‘ cessation of creating one thing ’ and ‘ commencing the creating of another.’ His words: “In illisenim ' diebus, quibus omnia creabantur, vesperam terminum con-ditoe creature; mane autem initium condendse alterius accipi-bamus ” (Genes, ad litteram, L. IV; c. 18; n. 32). The word day, according to our meaning, therefore, is, not that
180	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of a natural day of twenty-four hours; neither is it a long period; but these days mean simply divisions of work. That God hascreated the world in six days means that the work of creation is divided by Moses into six classes, or, as it were, into six tasks, without expressing in the least any time. Here j everyone may see and judge the different views or explanations of that most intricate text of Holy Writ, narrating the creation of the world. Mr. Huxley, therefore, on rejecting the Miltonic view, by no means refutes the views of others who have commented on these passages of Holy Scripture.
Our explanation of the classification of the created beings in the Bible refutes also the Miltonic view, and will satisfy the views taken by Prof. Huxley in his paragraph on “The Order in Which Animals Were Created.’. Mr. Huxley will not drive us so easy to the acceptance of evo lution, as he says in concluding that paragraph. There are-other reasons to account for his difficulties. His “ dilemma ” is not so close as at first sight would appear. Prove, Mr. Huxley, your two horns well, and then conclude. It is very easy to stand before a silent audience and teem out all the sophistries of philosophy, but it is quite another thing to prove everything logically. Is your circumstantial evidence the only criterion of those difficulties? If so, then we shall stop arguing.
Further on, Mr. Huxley says: “ There is no trace of a sweeping deluge or sudden disturbance of organic life.” This may not be so clearly known from circumstantial evidence as from testimonial evidence, for we have the testimony of Holy Writ of a sudden deluge and destruction of organic life. Who knows whether this deluge did not cause all the revolutions of the earth’s crust? Who knows whether fossils and strata were not dislocated by the action of the waters of the deluge ?
Mr. Huxley’s position after his first lecture is, by far, not what it should be. He thought he had cleared the path to evolution; but no. Far from it. Let him test dll hypotheses of the origin of nature as favorably as he does that of evolution, and he may come to another conclusion than that evolution explains everything in'nature. Evolution, it is true, explains a great many facts, facts which can hardly be accounted for in another way. Evolution in its broadest sense may be accepted, and will be, probably, as far as it goes, when proved logically, and when all scientific objections such as stated in St. George Mivart’s - Genesis of Species shall have been thoroughly answered and cleared. The theory of evolution need alarm no one. A little patience will clear the ground. It is defended, too often, with too great bigotry by its supporters and rejected by its opponents with too much partiality. To arrive at any conclusion, either party has to give up some of its most favorite positions. We hope that at the end a principle is evolved which is not on the one hand unscientific, and on the other conflicting with Catholic doctrine. Then we will be only too glad to accept the theory, which is now so abhorred by many, even the most eminent men of the age.
And here we may conclude by saying, with Dr. McCosh: “ In his first lecture the Professor had light work and an easy victory. He set up two targets and shot them down. He stated and overwhelmed two hypotheses: the first, that Nature has been all along very much in the same state as it now is; and the second, the poetical account given by Mil ton in “ Paradise Lost.” It did not take an Englishman to come 3,000 miles, it did not require a man of Prof. Huxley’s knowledge and dialetic skill, to demolish these fan-
cies. I cannot remember a single man eminent in science philosophy, or theology defending either of these views during the last half century. The first hypothesis was never held by religious men, though it has been defended by a few scientific men—who might have been kept from error by looking to Scripture—such as Hutton, Playfair and Lyell in his earlier writings. It is an instructive circumstance that, while Milton’s account cannot stand a moment’s investigation, the record of Genesis is believed by many of our highest men of science to be perfectly consistent with the latest science. I name only Prof. Dana, Prof. Guyot, and Principal Dawson, the highest authorities on this Continent, and superior to Prof. Huxley, not certainly in zoology, but in geology. I am quite ready to give up these two hypotheses to Prof. Huxley, to hew and hack them (to use one of his one phrases) like Agag.”
_____________ __________ A. M. K.
Time.
Numerous persons are much annoyed by their clocks or watches not keeping correct time, often being half an hour fast or slow, thus throwing their household arrangements into confusion. Yet the remedy is very simple, and within the reach of all, especially of those residing in the country.
Almanacs are given gratis to their customers by the druggists in all country towns, and they are all tolerably correct. In most of tnese almanacs, on the first, page are given the 12 signs of the zodiac and their names; reading, Aries, the Ram—Taurus, the Bull—Gemini, the Twins, etc. On the same page there is also a column explaining the abbreviations used in the monthly calendars, and unless a person is acquainted with these signs and abbreviations he can understand but. little of an almanac.
On every monthly page there is a column headed “sun fast ”—or “ sun slow,” as the case may be, as the sun corresponds with a true clock on only four days of the year, viz., on the 14th of April, 14th of June, 31st of August, and 24th of December. He attains his greatest difference at the following times, viz.: on the 11th of February he is 14 minutes, 29 seconds slow; on the 15 of May he is 3 minutes 51 seconds fast; on the 27 th of July he is 6 minutes and 14 seconds slow, and on the 1st of November, 16 minutes 19 seconds fast.
From this it will be seen that without knowing the irregularity in the motion of the sun’s shadow, there could be no standard of lime, and this was the cause of great trouble to the ancients, before the birth of Christ. This variation being now known to astronomers, it is given to the second in most almanacs, for every day in the year, in the column of equation, or fast and slow. Therefore, to take , time from a noon-mark, or a dial, you must refer to the column for that particular day, and by adding or subtracting the amount of time given in the column, from or to the sun mark, you get true time, provided always that your sun mark or dial is correct.
To get that mark correct, it is well to select one of the four days alluded to above, and, when the sun is due south of your house, make a mark on the floor by driving a nail in the floor, or otherwise; this mark gives you solar time, to which add or subtract, as above, for mean or civil time, or clock time. By this simple way a clock or watch can always be kept correct.
Farmers and persons residing in the country, who have a good view of the eastern or western horizon, can always
F»
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
181
get true time by observing sunrise or sunset, which can be done any clear morning or evening. Find the moment of sunrise-or sunset, in the Almanac, under the proper heading, as to the proper place or State, and then observing the instant of appearance or disappearance of the sun’s upper edge, set to that moment and you are correct. From this' you can lay off a noonmark, always observing to allow for sun fast or slow on that particular day. That is solar time.
. Time can always be told very correctly at night by the stars crossing the meridian, or, as it is called, the southing of a star. Turn to the 19th of January in an almanac of 1876 and you will find Sirius S. (south) 10 m., 32 s., E. (evening.) There can be no mistake about Sirius, the Great Dog-Star, the largest and brightest star in the heavens. Astronomers say that if the sun were where that star is he would not appear near as bright as that star does, for the distance of Sirius from the earth is many million times greater than that of the sun; and that, in size, that star is many times larger than the sun; and that, vast and glorious body that he is, he is one of the very least of the stars, being only 91 million of miles from the earth.
On March 2d you will find Sirius marked S. at 7 h. 45 m., E.; by observing these, points, a true south line can be obtained, a,nd some landmark established. A knowledge of the position of the north polar star is very necessary; every person knows the constellation of the Great Bear, or the Dipper, as it is commonly called; the two front stars as they travel round the pole from the right hand to the left, or from east to west, are called the Pointers, as a line drawn through them leads direct to the north star, a star of the 2d magnitude, with a space round it free from other stars. To understand all the signs and abbreviations in an in an almanac is of great advantage.
A Tale of the Black Forest.
In the 11th century Germany suffered much from the wars which the nobles continually waged amongst themselves. The Empire was in continual commotion, for no sooner had one petty war ceased than another commenced. In the year 1024 Conrad II ascended the throne. He used all his energy in restoring peace and tranquillity to the country; and if anyone dared to wage war against his neighbor, he was sure sooner or later to receive due punishment. It happened that during his reign the Count Lupoid, a brave and gallant warrior, engaged in a broil with a neighboring baron, and resort was had to arms. The parties met with their followers, and many a brave soldier was left on the field of battle. When the news of this occurrence reached Conrad, he threatened the parties with the greatest punishments and sent a detachment of his army to destroy the castle of Lupoid. But the Count, knowing well that it was useless to wage war against the Emperor, fled far away from his home and buried himself in the farthest parts of the Black Forest. There he built himself a hut and dwelt with his wife, and with no vassal to serve him he led the life of a hunter.
Years passed by; the Count and his wife led a very happy life in the forest. Nothing came to disturb them. It happened, though, one day, that the Emperor went out hunting. He with his troop chased a deer during a great part of the afternoon, and succeeded in killing it only when the sun was quite low in the west. They saw then that they must pass the night in the forest, and prepared to
look for some shelter to protect them from the cold. While thus employed they discovered the hut of the Count Lupoid. They approached it, and as they did so the Count came out and gave them welcome. He was so changed by time and exposure that he was not recognized by the Emperor, whom he welcomed to his humble home. There the party partook of their evening repast, and chatted for a long time with the host.
That night a child was born to the Count—a fine healthy boy. The Emperor and his suite congratulated the happy father and then retired to their beds. But the Emperor did not pass a very pleasant night. Scarcely had he fallen asleep when he dreamed that the boy who had that night come into the world had grown up to be a noble youth and that he had seated himself in the Emperor’s throne. He awoke greatly troubled, and related the dream he had to one of his companions, who told him to give no heed to idle dreams. He went to sleep again, and a second time he dreamed that the boy sat in his throne. Then towards the morning be had the same dream for the third time. Now the Emperor was greatly disturbed, and when the morning came he ordered two of his servants to steal the child away and murder it in the forest. He bade Count Lupoid good-bye and with his suit drove off. As the Count was attending to the Emperor the servants stole the child, and, going off into a dark and unfrequented part of the forest, they prepared to kill the infant. But they took pity on the child, moved to compassion by its smiles. They placed it under a tree, and killing a hare they took the heart and brought it to the Emperor who rewarded them for the murder of the child.
But the same day Count Uirich, a powerful nobleman, happening to pass through the forest, came to the tree under which the child was laid. He took pity on the boy, and taking it home to his wife adopted it as his own. After many years, Count Ulrich received a visit from the Emperor, and in the course of his conversation related the manner in which he had found his adopted son, nineteen years before, in the forest. Then the king began to suspect that his victim bad escaped. He questioned him closely, his suspicions were confirmed, and he sought how he might get possession of the boy. He made a proposal to Count Ulrich to take the boy into his service as a page, and the Count was only too delighted to accept the proposal. Having him in his possession, Conrad sent the boy with a letter to the queen. In the letter he charged the queen under pain of his displeasure to put the bearer to death. The youth set out, and after travelling seven days came to the house of a priest, who received him with hospitality, as God commands. This priest was a good, holy man. He took a liking to the boy from the first, because of his frank, open countenance, which showed how innocent was his heart. He felt pity for him, a young lad travelling so far alone. He suspected that there was some treachery at work against the lad. While he slept, the priest looked at the letter and discovered the horrible fate which awaited the poor page. Determining to thwart the designs of the Emperor, he erased the writing and substituted these words: “ This is the youth whom I have chosen for the husband of my daughter; I charge you give her to him quickly.” In the morning the lad awoke refreshed, and said,“Adieu, dear host,”—who in reply said: “ Remember me when you are king.” The boy only laughed, esteeming it a joke; so he departed, the priest sending with him a number of his own servants. On arriving at Aix-la-Chapelle he
t
182
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
delivered the letter; and so well did the stratagem succeed that when the' king wrote soon afterwards to ask if his orders had been obeyed, the queen assured him that the nuptials had been celebrated with great celerity, as he bad desired. The ctesar could not believe his eyes when he read her letter. Mounting his horse he rode off immediately and travelled with great speed to Aix-la-Chapelle, when on his arrival the queen presented their daughter apd son-in-law. For a long time the Emperor seemed lost in astonishment and uncertain what to do. At length nature prevailed, and he exclaimed, “ The will of God can not be resisted! ”
Then he compelled the two servants to reveal what they had done. He ordered Count Lupoid to come from the Black Forest and receive back his son, with peace from the Emperor. He proclaimed the boy his heir, and he whom Conrad once sought to murder succeeded him as Emperor of Germany under the title of Henry III. On the spot where the child was born was erected afterwads the famous Monastery of Hirschau.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A committee has been formed to raise a monument to Thalberg.	*
—A new volume of poems by Mrs. J. J. Piatt is nearly ready for publication.
—Mr. Justin McCarthy has written a new novel, absurdly called “Miss Misanthrope.”
—The Bev. Dr. Manning has written a book on this country called “American Pictures.”
—Prof. Francis A. Walker’s work on “The Wages Question ” is to be translated into Italian.
—James Miller is about publishing Martin Farquar Tupper’s “ Washington: A Drama in Five Acts."	.
—A school of music is about to be established at Dusseldorf Herr Brahms has accepted the directorship.
—The next volume in Mr. Longfellow’s series of “Poems of Places ” will illustrate France and other continental countries.	-
—J. S Svendsen has lately completed a second symphony which has been performed in Christiania. The work will be looked for with interest.
—Milton’s grandest poem has been turned into music by Rubinstein, under the title “Verlorenes Paradies,” and has been presented to the Hamburgers.
—The Ducal theatre of Dessan is the first house in Germany to adopt the “invisible orchestra” of Wagner, or rather Gretry, with whom the idea origin ited.
—The manager of the Paris Opera Comique his completed negotiations with Gounod for the early production of the latter’s opera, “George Dandon,” completed several years since.
—M. Wieniawski has reappeared in London after his recovery from aspell of severe illness. He played Beethoven’s violin concerto at the last Crystal Palace Saturday afternoon concert.
—A new biography of Edgar A. Poe, by Miss Sarah S. Rice, is announced for publication by a Baltimore firm. It will be illustrated with an engraving from one of the latest daguerreotypes of Poe.
—On dit, that M ix Maretzek will bring out Wagner’s “ Ring of the Nibelungen,” during the season at the Academy of Music, in operatic form, a number of gentlemen having subscribed the necessary funds.
—It is stated that the fifth and last volume of Guizot’s “ History of France ” is chiefly the work of his daughter, Mme. de Witt, who constructed it from notes taken when the substance of the book was delivered in oral lectures to M. Guizot’s grandchildren.
—The “Flying Dutchman” of Wagner abounds in
“ pretty tunes.’’ There is a duet in the first act, a spinning chorus and ballad in the second, and a sailors’ chorus and song in the third act, all of which are overflowing with-melody, and bound to be popular.
—The fetes in honor of Bellini, at Catania, terminated in accordance with the programme. The musical works, executed in themidst of a numeiousand enthusiastic crowd, were “ L’Apoteost di Bellini,” by Pacini, a song for soprano, by Platania, and a mass by Coppola, which has been performed at the Cathedral.
—Among the rare books recently disposed of at the Men-zie sale in New York was a copy of Higden’s “ P«>lycro-nion. Fynysshed per Caxton. M C.C.C.C.L.X.X.X.II.” It was knocked down for $1,005 to J. W. Drexel, the banker. Jeffries, of L >ndon, bid $1,000 for it. The only other copy to be found in this country is contained in the Lennox Library. It cost $6,500.
—Robert Clarke & Co.’s new issue of the “ Poems of George D. Prentice,” which will probably appear next week, will be called “The Memorial Edition,” and will be ornamented with an engraved side stamp in gold of Mr. Prentice’s statue recently erected in front of the new Courier-Journal building at Louisville. It will contain a number of poems not included in the firstand second editions.
—Mme. Eisspoff, the Russian pianist, now in this country, is not quite 25 years old, and the wife of Leschetizsky, Director of the Piano in the St. Petersburg Conservatory. She has the highest European reputation, and like Von Bulow and Rubinstein, plays from memory all the works of her repertoire,—some 200. Her specialty, if she can be said to have one, is Chopin, but she is perhaps unsurpassed in the breadth and scope of her interpretative powers.
—Boston’s musical spirit seems to run low,—or is it that Mr. D wight’s spiri ts are low!—for the Journal of Music says that, “ With all our proud traditions, our rich memories of symphony and oratory for the past thirty, forty years, there still is not sufficient patronage for concerts of the highest kind of instrumental music to enable an orchestra to play together often enough or keep together long enough to become quite worthy of the musical reputation ofour' Athens.’
—A fact very common in the last century, but exceedingly rare at the present day is the fact of a priest devoting himself to operatic composition. It has just been realized, however, by the Reverend Father von Doss, a German ecclesiastic, who has retired to the Saint Servais College, Liege. He has composed and produced a three act opera, Maurice, the style of which, according to the Journal des Beaux Arts, is sober, clear and flowing, at the same time it is full of life and true inspiration.—American Art Journal.
—Music will beoneofthegrand attractions of the Paris Exhibition of 1878. A magnificent concert-hall will be erected and there will be orchestral music, and operatic music, and performances of oratorio. England s to provide a complete performance of one of Handel’s oratorios, sending a full band, chorus, and soloists, with St. Michael Costa as conductor. Germany will furnish German specimens of Handel, and there will be French performances of works by the same master. Cavaille Coll is to build a large organ in the ooncert-room, which is expected to excel the great instruments of Boston, Leeds, Liverpool, and the one in Albert Hall in London.
—The exact dates of the birth and death of Auber have been at length ascertained. The baptismal record on the register at Caen gives the date of birth 29th of January, 1782, and the name which is inscribed on the monument for Pere-la-Chaise, Daniel-Franfois-Esprit Auber. He died on the 12th of May, 1871 (not the 4th of June, 1870, as it has been given), and his remains were concealed, in the days of the Commune, in the crypt of the Trinity Church until the 15th of July, 1871, wheu they were interred temporarily iu the Cemetery Montmartre. The ceremonial of reinterment and the inauguration of the monument in Pere-la-Chaise will take place toward the end of this month.
—S lys a gossiping Paris letter-writer: “ Apropos of Offenbach, I must not omit to mention that he has moved from his old apartment in the Rue Lifitte to a much more commodious one on the Boulevard des Capucines. Now that he has elbow room, he says that he can write six oper
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
183
ettas a year, instead of three, as heretofore. He has had a bad attack of gout since his return to Europe, but it has not prevented him finishing his book on America, which is now in the hands of hi; publishers, Calmann, Levy & Co. Bentley, the London publisher, has purchased the English copyright, and the translation is to be made by M. Bertie Marriot, the Paris correspondent of a leading London paper. The book is said to be very spicy, and will no doubt excite considerable interest in Americ i. Offenbach is something more than the mere musician, and judging from his conversational talents, I should siy, from all I hear of the work, thatyou will have many a hearty laugh over it.”
—Whether Chaucer himself was a musician may be matter for doubt, but hisallusions to the practice of accompanying the voice with an instrument attest the prevalent cultivation of the arts conjointly. Under Henry VIII and Elizabeth, when our poetry burst into fuller flower, its union with music was established in popular acceptance Some of the airs to which Lord Surrey’s “ favorite songs were sung” are preserved in manuscript. Sir Philip Sidney was a skilled musician, and arranged words to current melodies, besides writing songs still more worthy to be mated. That Shakespeare, the most incomparable song writer in our language, was also a musician can scarcely be doubted by any who remember his perpetual and loving reference to the art. In the seventeenth century music was an all but universal accomplishment, and the poets were foremost in its cultivation. Cowley, Butler and Milton were all three skilled in it. Credit for such skill would not be given to the two former by readers of their verse; but Milton’s proficiency on the organ is hardly to be forgotten in considering the richness and sonority of his language.
—Dr. R. S. Mackenzie, remarking on the fifth volume of Longfellow’s “ Poems of Places,”—that referring to Ireland,—complains of various omissions, and makes some minor criticisms. Among other things he says: “ ‘ The Groves of Blarney,’ written about the year 1799, by R. A. Milliken, an attorney in Cork, does not ‘ follow copy ’ in the volume before us. The closing stanza beginning:
“ There is a stone there that whoever kisses, Oh he never misses to grow eloquent!
was an addition by ‘ Father Prout ’ (the late Francis Mahoney;, and ought to have had its particular authorship stated. But why omit the following, which is the fifth stanza in the Irish version:
“ ’Tis there’s the kitchen hangs many a flitch in, With the maids a stitching upon the stair;
The bread and biske’, the beer and whiskey, Would make you frisky if you were there.
’Tis there you’ll see Peg Murphy’s daughter A washing praties foment the door, With Roger Cleary and Father Healy,
All blood-relations to my Lord Donoughmore.”
What is now generally printed as the conclusion of1 The Groves of Blarney,’ beginning with * The stone, this is ’ and ending with ‘ Sure he’s a pilgrim to the Blarney stone,’ was added by Father Mahoney, and was too good to be removed.”
Books and Periodicals.
Across the Sea., and Other Poems. By Thomas S. Chard. Chicago: Jansen, McClurg & Company. 1875. Pp. 55.
■ This modest little volume, containing four poems, respectively entitled “ Across The Sea,” “ The Seven Sleepers,” “A Legend of St. John,” and “ The Blessed Vale,” possesses considerable merit. The versification is free, and the thoughts are more poetic than are to be found in the general run of metrical tales. Mr. Chard will not be able to inscribe his name among the great poets of his country, but he will serve to give a pleasant hour to his readers. If he is not possessed of that genius which stamps its works with grandeur and sublimity he is at least endowed with a capability of portraying the lesser beauties of this world.
—We have on various occasions called attention to the merits of the Catholic Record, the November number of which now lies before us. Lt is edited with ability’; the contributions are learned without being weary and dull.
On the contrary, there is a freshness about them which makes them entertaining and enjoyable. The Record is published by Messrs. Hardy & Mahony, 505 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, at $2.50 per annum. The contents of the November number number are: I, From the Centennial to Sambro; II, The Sins of Europe; III, St. Patrick and Ossian; IV, Half a Lifetime Ago; V, Rome, dear Rome! VI, Maynooth College: VII, St. Augustine and Scientific Unbelief; VIII, The Present; IX, An Indian Hero; X, Sonnet—Troubled Souls; XI, Editorial Notes; XII, New Publications: Common School Literature, E iglish and American; The Normal Higher Arithmetic; The Voice of' Jesus Suffering to the Minds and Hearts of Christians; Linked Lives; The Brown House at Duffield.
—The gossipy Manhattan Monthly for November, edited by' Mr. John Savage, is always received by us with pleasure. Each number of the Monthly contains a large amount of rare and historical matter of the United States, entertaining fiction, and miscellaneous articles, which make it well worth the subscription. §2.50 per annum. The following are the contents of the November number: I, Grand mother’s Story: II, Neapolitan Superstitions; III, The Ship’s arrival; IV, Martin Guerre; or, Mistaken Identity ; V, Tired of Life; VI, Lives of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence: VII, Death of Summer; VIII, Rose Duvivier; IX, The Penitent ot La Trappe; X, Hone, Faith, Love; XI, Famous Memories of the Month; XII, United in Death; XIII, Lourdes; XIV, The Words of a Friend; XV, Court Enqueue in Persia; XVI, The Soldier’s Recipe; XVII, Mescellany: Charles Matthews in “a regular fix”—How Leeches are raised—Memorial Cross to the “Four Masters”—King Charles II and the Dog Stealers; XVIII. Current Publications: The Three Pearls; or Virginity and Martyrdom—The Voice of Jesus Suffering.
—The Catholic World for December is a bright and seasonable number. It opens with a searching review of the doings and sayings of the recent Unitarian Convention at Saratoga. The Rev. E. E Hale, who seems to have been the chief expounder of Unitarianism at the Convention, is subjected to a criticism that will probably invite reply, inasmuch as, from the Catholic World's stand point, there is not much left either of that gentleman or of a rational Christian platform for Unitarianism. The whole article is a sharp challenge to Unitarianism as well as a healthy piece of criticism. It is followed by a charming paper on “Siena” and its great St. Catherine, whose name and fame belong to European history no less than to the Catholic Church. The serials, “Six Sunny Months,” “Letters of a Young Irishwoman to her Sister,” and “Sir Thomas More,” are continued. The last-named romance is announced to conclude in the January number.. The present instalment draws a fine picture of the great Chancellor’s trial and condemnation. The other two serials are as full of bright scenes and charming personages, as happily described as ever. “The Young Irishwoman” at last visits her native land, and the return is described with all the grace, half-bright, half pathetic, that runs so readily from her pen. A short story and a very good one is “The Devil’s Christmas Gift.” The article on Prof. Mivart’s Contemporary Evolution gives an excellent idea of a work that has called for very general attention in religious and scientific circles. The paper on the “ Catacombs” is one of the best-written and most interesting in the number. It is ostensibly a review of the Rev. Mr. Withrow’s book on the same subject; but, as the writer of the article plainly shows himself far better acquainted with the Catacombs than the author of the book, it can. only be looked upon as rather a refutation than a review. “ A Trip to Ireland” in the present year is a very pleasing account of a flying visit to that land of many memories. “Aphasia” is a purely scientific paper, but will be found to repay perusal by the general reader. A review of “ Jean Ingelow’s Poems ” is the closing article. It is one of those pieces of keen literary criticism which the Catholic World can command when it pleases, and in which it is unexcelled.
—The work of Professor Draper, of the University of New York, on the Conflict between Science and Religion has been put upon the Index Expurgatorius as a book of perverse doctrine” by a decree dated September 4th.
184
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, November 25, IS76
Single Copies of THE SCHOLASTIC may now be procured at the Student’s Office, at Five Cents per copy.
Terms, $1.50 Per A.»num. Postpaid. Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
Exhibitions.
We are aware that not unfrequently there are complaints made that the exhibitions given by the various societies, from time to time, are injurious to the students, causing them to lose their time and doing them no good in return. We believe this notion, which many people have got into their, heads that those taking part in an enterlainment must necessarily lose time, is a mistaken one. No society here gives an Entertainment more than twice a year, without including the Commencement exercises; some societies give one Entertainment only. Two weeks before the Exhibition is given, the preparations and rehearsals begin. These rehearsals take place in the evenings, after the classes of the day have been attended, taking up about an hour and a half, which ordinarily is’given to study, but which a good student can make up for during the day. There are only one or two mornings when the hour before breakfast is lost to the students, and on the day of the Entertainment the members are excused from class. As the various societies are not composed of the same students it can easily be seen that each student loses but very little time, and that the time may be made up by study during other hours. Hence the complaint of loss of time falls to the ground. Besides, those who are distinguished by their proficiency in class, the excellence of their recitations and their love for study are, as a rule, those who belong to the societies and who are fully able to make up for the loss of the small amount of time allotted for study occasioned by the entertainment given by their society.
As to the charge that there is no good done the students, we have but little to say. The good done is so evident that it really does not need to be pointed out. Literary and musical entertainments have not been included when it is charged that no good is derived from exhibitions. The dramatic entertainments which are given at various times are the only ones included in the condemnation, but we honestly believe that a student taking part in a dramatic entertainment derives as much benefit from it as he would in taking part in a literary one. We say as much benefit, though it is of a different kind. There is a certain easy grace acquired while performing on the stage which the rostrum does not give. Besides, the study required to understand and then express the meaning of an author, cannot but be of great service to the student.
But granted that the dramatic entertainment does not benefit the student taking part (and this we by no means admit) nevertheless the good it does the whole body of the students is very great. Here at Notre Dame the students
have not, during the winter months, the opportunities of witnessing concerts, etc., which are possessed by the students of those colleges located in cities. This is in reality a benefit to the student, for it prevents him from giving himself up entirely to amusement and dissipation, and makes him more regular in his studies. But all students require some relaxation and diversion from study, once in a while, and the dramatic entertainments coming once every two months are just the thing to supply them. They cheer up all the students, make them happier and better, and in no way interfere with their studies. Great care is taken that the dramas produced contain nothing profane or immoral; but, on the contrary, that they contain a lesson which is good for all to practice.
In making, this general defence of dramatic entertainments we would not have anyone understand that we desire entertainments of that kind only. Not at all. We would like to see musical and literary just as well, and trust that all may be successful in benefitting the members and cheering up the students.
Our New Advertisers.
It is with great pleasure we call the attention of our readers to the advertisements of old students to be found in another column. It is our desire to have the advertisements of as many as possible of the lawyers, physicians, etc., who have gone out from Notre Dame, and we trust that we will soon have as many as two pages filled with them. It may seem at first glance that these advertisements may not be of much service to the advertisers, but a little reflection will dispel this erroneous view. There are old students of Notre Dame scattered throughout the length and breadth of the land; more especially in the Northwest there is scarcely a county in which some old students may not be found, often holding positions of honor and trust. The Scholastic circulates among many of these students, and among the parents of those now attending class in the College. Any business which a former student of Notre Dame may have in a distant city will naturally be sent to one who has studied at the same institution, if the address be known. This will be made known through the medium of the Scholastic, and if the advertiser receives but one collection during the year by reason of his advertisement he will receive back more than the cost of advertising. We trust that the circulation of this paperamong the old students will continue to increase with each weekly issue, and thus render the advertisements more beneficial. Our advertising space is limited, and hence the more valuable. We publish only select advertisements, and are forced to decline those sent by the many agencies in New York and elsewhere. If the old students make use of that space which we have at our disposal it may be to their advantage, as-very naturally, when others who were students or are acquainted with the University have business to transact away from home they will be glad to entrust it to those in whom they can place an implcit confidence.
Of the old students who have had their cards inserted in the Scholastic the first is Nathaniel S. Mitchell, of ’72, Mr. Mitchell after leaving Notre Dame having been admitted to the practice of law, entered into partnership with Mr. Speer, in Davenport, Iowa. The firm has a large and lucrative practice,'and all business sent to them will receive prompt attention.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
185
Lucius G. Tong, of ’65, is the next of our advertisers. Having married and settled at South Bend, he has entered upon the practice of his profession there, besides teaching . the Class of Commercial Law and other classes at Notre Dame. All collections, etc., sent to him will be attended to with dispatch.
Thomas B. Clifford, of ’62, has his office at No. 206 Broadway, New York city. Mr. Clifford is prepared to attend promptly to all business intrusted to his care, and we can recommend him to those who have interests in the great metropolis requiring the attention of an attorney.
Denis J. Hogan, of ’74, has entered into partnership . •	with Mr. Fanning, a graduate of the St. Louis University.
' .	He majr be found at his office, No. 26 Ashland Block,
J ‘ N. E. Cor. of Clark and Randolph streets, Chicago, and f will give prompt and thorough attention to all business g intrusted to his care.
Charles J. Dodge and William W. Dodge, both of ’74, have entered into partnership under the firm name of >5 Dodge & Dodge. Their address is Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa. Charles is now married and settled, and ,J both he and William are doing well in their profession.
They have already an excellent practice and will be | pleased to attend to the business of any of the old students r in Iowa or in any of the adjoining States.
John F. McHugh, of’72, having during the past four years acquired a fine law practice, married and settled at Lafayette, Ind. His address is No. 65 and 67 Columbia street. Any legal business sent him will be attended to at once, and ; he will be pleased to receive a fair share from old students ■ of Notre Dame.
‘	Orville T. Chamberlain, of ’61, has for years been doing
’	an excellent law business in Elkhart, Ind., where be is
i	justly regarded as the first lawyer of the city. All business
-4 intrusted to him is attended to with promptness and care.
He is married, and the father of a fine family. All the old "• students acquainted with Orville remember him as one ;( who could command the respect of all his companions.
I	No sooner had C. M. Proctor, of ’75, left Notre Dame,
£	. than the citizens of Elkhart, recognizing his worth, elected
him City Engineer. The compliment was well deserved s* by Mr. Proctor, and he has not disappointed the citizens in •J	the expectations they had formed of him. All business in
t	the engineering way which may be intrusted to him will
receive proper attention.
• Arthur J. Stace, of’64, after teaching in the College for ■1 ' many years and earning a name of which any man might i be proud, determined to enter into other business. He has f twice been elected County Surveyor of St. Joseph County, Ind., and any one having any surveying or engineering to
. be done in the vicinity of South Bend can safely entrust it to .his care.
The above, so far, are the only old students who advertise in the Scholastic. We hope, however, that many others will imitate their example.
Personal.
—Thomas Hooley, of ’74, is now in Brooklyn, Long .Island.
" —Rev. Father Fr&re has been appointed Superior of the Scholasticate.
—H. C. Kinkead, of ’71, is in the book business in Lexington, Kentucky.
—W. J. Onahan, Esq., of Chicago, spent the afternoon with us on the 22nd.
—	Thos. Nelson, Esq., of Chicago, was visiting his sons here on Thursday last.
—	J. Wernert (Commercial, of’72) is in one of the National Banss of Toledo, Ohio.
—	Mr. Fishburne, of Joliet, Ill., was at the College on the 22ud, visiting bis son here.
—	Mrs. Kauffman and Mrs. Reif, of Cincinnati, visited their sons at the College this week.
—	We were honored with a visit from Hon. Wm. C. Mo-Michael, our old foreman, yesterday.
—	John Coppinger, of’69, is practicing law in Alton, Ill, We learn that he has a large practice.
—	Albert West, of ’72, is employed in the retail dry-goods store of Messrs. Field, Leiter & Co., Chicago.	___
—	Bernard McGinnis, of ’74, is in the practice of the law in Ottawa, UI. He is very successful in his profession.
—	R. J. Maas (Commercial, of ’76) is reading medicine at McGill College, Montreal, Province of Quebec, Canada.
—	George W. Darr (Commercial, of ’72) is in business in Cincinnati. His address is corner of 7th and Race streets.
—	William'P. Cotter, of ’63, was for a long time editor of the Logan County Gazette. He is now residing in Bellefontaine, Ohio.
—	Rev. L. J. Letourneau, having been appointed visitor of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, left, this last week, to attend the duties of the office.
John W. Staley, of’71, was lately married to an estimable young lady in St. Louis, Mo. He is now doing a large boot and shoe business in that city.
—	Rev. Father Vagnier has been appointed Professor of Physics and Chemistry at the College in Watertown, Wis., and left to attend to his duties on Wednesday last.
—	We are under obligations to the accomplished writer, Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly, of Philadelphia, for the beautiful poem on the first page, and herewith tender our thanks.
—	Robert Shanley (Commercial, of ’61) was at Notre Dame on the 22nd. He was returning to New York from the Black Hills, where he has been as a correspondent of an Eastern paper.
—	William S. Meyer (Commercial, of ’75) passed through Notre Dame on his way back to Portsmouth, Ohio, where he will again take up his residence. He has been living in Virginia City, Nevada, for the past year. We wish him every success.
—	Robert W. Staley, A. B., of ’74, is attending lectures at the St. Louis Law School, preparing himself, as he says, to become a worthy successor to Uncle Sammy Tilden in the remote future. We expect to see his card announcing that he has opened an office appear about a year hence in the Scholastic, of which he is a firm friend.
Local Items.
—	Next Thursday is Thanksgiving day.
—	The boats are soon to go into winter quarters.
—	The Juniors have three tables in their recreation hall.
—	The flowers in the Senior study-hall have all been rearranged.
—	A new wagon-road is to be opened to the west of the new church.
—	Quite a number of boys have received boxes for Thanksgiving day.
—The music-rooms have been put in a very neat and comfortable appearance.
Baseball and pigtail are still popular with the Minims ’when the weather permits.
—After five or six days of clouds and rain, it turned in and froze on Wednesday last.
—The bars, swings, etc., in the Senior grounds.will be fixed anew the coming week.
—Storm-doors are being put up at the various houses to keep out the chilly blasts of winter.
•	*5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTI.	]
186
—We were gratified this past week by receiving a number of subscriptions from old students.
—Good students are like business men, they mind their own business and do not idle their time.
—The photographs of the Centennial champion baseball nine have been put in the Senior Study Hall.
—The Minims return sincere thanks to the kind friend who furnished their lavatory with a new carpet.
—A beautiful little Lourdes album was given to Master F. Carroll as a prize in the second English Class.
—Rev. T. E. Walsh will deliver a lecture on the “ Age of Louis XIV” on the evening of Thursday, November 30 th.
—We notice that those boys who join in the games of foot-ball, alley-ball, etc., are seldom troubled with nostalgia.
—The St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society hold their meetings regularly. Their report will appear in our next issue.
—The Director of Studies speaks very highly of the Letters and “Local Items” of the 1st Junior Grammar Class.
—All music-pupils who desire to do so can read the musical papers, of which there are quite a number at the music hall.
—The wind commenced its usual winter spree on Tuesday evening last, and was whistling around the College in high style.
—The publishers of the Ave Maria, the religious paper issued at Notre Dame, now print an edition of an even 10,000 copies.
—At the next soiree we understand that all of the most proficient on the violin and piano will appear. We expect a rare treat from them.
—Ithasbeen suggested that the students would be better able to read the Psalms at Vespers were there a few lamps placed near the side aisles.
—The next musical soiree will take place Dec. 7th. All who are to take part in it are enthusiastic, and determined to make it a grand success.
—Greece, renowned for so many names illustrious in the country’s history, could count only seven wise men : judge of the number of its fools.
—The St. Cecilians will give their Entertainment on the 12th of December. Besides “ The Broken Sword,” they will produce the “ Virginia Mummy.”
—Resolutions on the death of P. E. Cochrane were passed in the Thespian and St. Cecilia Philomathean Associations, and will appear in our next number.
—The Columbians are fitting up their room in grand style. They have lately received several fine busts and a beautiful oil-painting. This last is the gift of Father Zahm.
—We again call attention to the professional cards of old students which appear in the Scholastic. Those who advertise in our paper deserve the patronage of our readers.
—Any Senior who strays into the Minims’ playgrounds when snow is on the ground always meets with a warm reception. For proof of the assertion you may ask P. C.
—The literary entertainment to be given by the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association is not “ off,” as announced in our last issue. It be will given on the evening of the 17th of December.
—We notice that steps are being taken to thoroughly drain the court to the rear of the College. Probably the place most needing to be drained is just to the west of the Infirmary building.
—As many of the parents of the students do not receive the Scholastic from their sons except when their names appear on the roll of honor, we will send a copy of this number to each of them.
—The editorial staff of the Philomathean Standard are profuse in their thanks to Prof. Lyons, B. Simon, B. Cli-macus and all others connected with getting up the grand lunch for them on Thursday last.
—The Minims display great ingenuity in turning whatever is at hand to their amusement. So we thought during the last fall of snow, as we witnessed the fun they had with an inverted table which they had improvised into a family sleigh.	'
—The blessing of the big bell, which was to take place on the 8th of December, has for various reasons been postponed until next spring. The ceremony will take place on the Feast of Our Lady of the ’Sacred Heart, which falls on the 31st of May.
—There have been so many orders for the back numbers of the Ave Maria of this year that the editor finds it impossible to fill them. Any one at Notre Dame having these numbers will confer a great favor on him by leaving them at the printing-office.
—Our paper will continue to inform regularly the parents and guardians of the students as to their progress. We call the special attention to the Roll of Honor, the Class Honors and the List of Excellence, which record the names of the most proficient and best behaved students.
—The members of the Choral Union, under the direction of B. Leopold, are still engaged in rehearsing the “ Picnic ” for the next soiree. There are some members of the Union possessed of excellent voices, and we expect that they will make good use of them in the rendition of the Cantata.
—The concert given to day at St. Mary’s Academy by the Boston Philharmonic Club was a most excellent affair. We have merely time before going to press, to make mention of the concert, expecting from our correspondent at the Academy a full account of it for next week’s Scholastic.
—The Juniors are waiting with anxiety to learn the result of the election on Saturday last. The returns are about as long coming in as those from Louisiana. Probably the Seniors had better send committees over to watch the country, though we have not heard of any intimidation exercised at the polls.	.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association held its 8th regular meeting November 18th, at which Rev. President Golovin delivered an excellent address to the members. F. Fishier was elected a member. J. Healy read an essay, and Messrs. R. Hayes, C. Clarke, A. J. Burger, M. Kauffmann, G. Sugg and G. Cassidy delivered declamations.
—To-morrow is the Feast of St. Sylvester. The Mass sung will be De Angdix. Vespers as far as the Capitulum will be of St. Sylvester; from the Capitulum it will be of St. Elizabeth of Hungary, with commemorations of St. Sylvester and the last Sunday after Pentecost. See page 50 of the Vesperal for psalms, and page 55 for the hymn.
—Those members of the faculty who reside in South Bend are delighted with their drives each morning over the frozen ground. There is no danger of their being troubled with dyspepsia, for the jolting they get is something terrible to behold. The average lift from the seat at each step of the horse is two feet. They expect however to go a little higher the next freeze.
—Prof. Lyons has almost completed his arrangements for the production of the Scholastic Almanac, and it will be out about the 15th of December. The calendars, reading matter, etc'., are all ready, and all that is wanted now is a few pages more of advertisements. Those who wish to make use of this valuable medium to make known their business should hasten to avail themselves of the opportunity.
—The first number of the Philomathean Standard, the manuscript journal of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, has at last appeared. It contains quite a number of very readable essays, etc., written by the talented young gentlemen connected with the Association. It is a credit not only to the individual writers, but also to the Association under whose auspices the paper is gotten up. Success to the young editors! and may they, by-and-by, develop into real genuine journalists.	.
—The 11th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary Club was held Saturday evening, Nov. 18th. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. W. Turnbull. R. Calkins, H. Henkel and J. Kinney. Speeches on the state of the country were made by Messrs. C. Otto, N. Mooney, T. C. Logan, R. Kirby, J. D. McIntyre and L. Murphy. The 12th regular-meeting was held Now. 21st. Essays were read by Messrs. J. B. Patterson and J. Murray. Declamations by E. Fishburne, F. Schlink and J. Fitzgerald.
—If any of our regular subscribers receive a stamped

i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
187
extra paper inclosing a circular they will please attribute it to a mistake on the part of the mailer, and pay no further attention to it. Those who are not regular subscribers, but receive the paper occasionally from their sons or friends, will do us a favor by reading the circular. Many of the students, we might here remark, send the Scholastic home only when their names appear on the roll of honor. Hence if the parents wish to know fully the standing of their sons they should become regular subscribers to this paper.
—Hereafter, .commencing with next week’s edition of our paper, we will in addition to the column of art, musical and literary news, give one short column of scientific items These items will be condensed from the scientific journals especially for the Scholastic, and as the party engaged to do it is in every respect competent to attend to the work in a satisfactory manner we feel confident that the scientific column will add to to the attractions of the piper. None but the most interesting news will be given and such as can be understood by all our readers, whether scientific students or not.
—We would call the attention of parents to the fact that for the Christmas vacation the students going home will start on the 22d. All are particularly requested not to ask for their sons to come home before that time, as it seriously deranges the classes here. It would be far better not to have any Christmas vacation, but as many of the parents desire their sons at home during the holidays the authorities here are forced to grant it. Classes will positively be continued to up the 22d, notwithstanding any reports to to the contrary which may be set afloat by students wishing to leave before that time.
—We had the pleasure, the other day, of seeing the chalice which belonged to Father de Seille, the first resident Missionary here when Notre Dame was a village of the Pottawatomies. This precious souvenir was lately presented to the editor of the Ave Naria by Father Neyron, who received it many years ago from Bishop Brute. It is of silver, and is one of the prettiest little chalices we have ever seen. Mr. Buysse, of South Bend, has engraved it with the following inscription: Hie calix olim Rev. Patris de Seille erat. A Rev Patre Neyron cni lUmus. ac Re'mus. S. Brute dederat D. Hudson, C. S. C., Presbyter eum accepit.
—The remarks made about the College Library iu a late number of the Scholastic are not at all applicable to the Lemonnier Circulating Library. Under the vigilant care of the Librarian everything is conducted in a manner highly satisfactory to all concerned, and few books if any are lost. Since the article in the Scholastic appeared, a change for the better is perceptible in the College Library. The Librarian has been engaged in fitting things up, and the state of affairs complained of is fast' being remedied. We are glad to chronicle this, and trust that the College Library may in time become worthy of Notre Dame. All donations and subscriptions to this library should be addressed to the “ College Librarian, Notre Dame, Ind.” Vo n Thursday evening Rev. Father Ztfhm delivered the second lecture of his course on Physics* The lecturer explained fully the subject of this lecture, which was Magnetism and Electro Magnetism. He traced the history of the latter division of his subject in detail, explaining with his fine set of instruments all the discoveries in that science from the famous one of Oersted down. He explained the process of making artificial magnets, and the diverse uses to which they could be put. He showed fully, for the satisfaction of our young telegraphers, the principle and workings of that most wonderful and useful of all the inventions following from the discovery of electro-magnetism, the electric telegraph. In conclusion the lecturer exhibited some views with his fine lantern which were well received by the audience.
—The fourth regular meeting of the Thespian Association was held November 20th. A committee was appointed to visit the Director, Rev. Father Golovin, and solicit him to favor the Society with an address. As the Director had not visited the Association very frequently, his coming was looked upon as promising a treat. Nor were they disip-pointed; he delivered a most interesting discourse. He spoke of the drama, recalling to mind the qualifications of a writer of this species of poetry, of the obstacles which im
pede the dramatic writer; iu fine he gave so many happy and appropriate illustrati ins of his subject, and so entertained the members, that the society is at a loss to find words sufficiently expressive of its thanks. The members look with eagerness to the time when he will again favor the Association. The names of Messrs. Maas and Hastings were added to the roll of membership.
—The lunch which always takes place simultaneously with the issue of the first number of the Philomathean Standard came off on Thursday. Besides the young editors there were a number of priests, professors and members of the Senior department who sat down to make away with the tuikey and other good things placed before them. All of the Si-nior students who attended were in former years on the editorial staff of the Standard. The lunch was heartily enjoyed by all, and when we say that it was np to the standard of those of former years which were designated banquets, all who have ever been connected with the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association will readily understand that it was excellent. After the viands had been discussed to the satisfaction of every one. Rev. President Golovin made one of those happy little speeches for which he is so well known. He was followed by Prof. Ivers, and he in return—tell it not in Gath—by Prof. Lyons, he who has so managed to go from year to year without displaying his powers of oratory. By request, Mr. Nelson, of Chicago, favored the company with a good Irish song, which was received with great delight by everyone. Altogether the lunch was most enjoyable.
—The Minims always look forward to Hallowe’en with the expectation of spending one of the happiest evenings of the scholastic year, and although the cel ebration of it was delayed rather long this year on account of the retreat, and the fact of not having a barrel of ap pies handy, they appeared to enjoy themselves the more, notwithstanding the postponement. After supper on the 18th inst., having placed a tub of tepid water in the mi ddle of their recreation hall, B. Albert covered the surface of the water with rosy-red apples kindly given by Bro. Simon; then each little fellow, having previously provided himself with a bathing towel, was ready for business. Among the most expert divers of the evening we noticed P. Nelson, W. McDevitt, G. Lowrey, A. Rheinboldt, F. Carqueville, and P. Heron. Among the visitors from the Seniors and Juniors, J. Lambin, C. Faxon and J. Lumley excelled. The unsuccessful efforts of some of the divers' to lift apples with their teeth, and their appearance after lifting their heads from the water, making frantic gest ures to seize a towel to dry their eyes and dripping locks, elicited shouts of laughter from the lookers on. After all were well supplied with fruit, Master F. Gaffney was invited to display his skill as a dancer, which invitation he promptly accepted, and acquitted himself well for one of his years. Songs were sung by several; those given by J. Nelson and J. Lumley were most loudly applauded for their novelty and humor. This closed the jollification of the little ones, all declaring it the most enjoyable affair of the season.
.	RoU of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who dur-intr the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
■	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Breen, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, E. Davenport, W Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers. J. Fitzgeiald T. Garrity, T. Garso, H. Hert-zog. P. Hagan, J. Hermann, J Kinney, J. Kuebel, J. Larkin. G. Laurans, N. Mooney. H. Maguire, J. Montgomery. P. J. Matti-more, P. W. Mattimdre, T. McGrath, J. McEniry, C. Otto. J. O’Rourke, P. O'Leary, L. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, T. H. Quinn, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, F. Schiink, P. Tambie, F. Vandervennet, J. Vanderhoof. '	.
.	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
‘ A. Abraham, E. Anderson, A. Bergck, W. Brady, J. Burger, A. Burger. J. Carrer, R. French, C. Faxon, A Gerlach, L. Gar-ceau, R. Healy, P. Haney, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, J. Johnson. C. Johnson, J. Krost, T. Knorr, J. Knight, F. Lancaster, J. Lomax, J. Haney, J Lumley.E. Moran, T. Nelson, C. Orsinger, EJPoor, C. Peltier, J. Reynolds, J. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt., P. Schnurrer, K. Scanlan, H. Scott, J. Schoby, A. Sievers, J. Nelson. - -
188
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Nelson. R. Pleins, F. Carqueville, W. McDevitt, G. Lambin, J. Seeger, G. Rhodius. G. Hadden, C. Reif. J. Scanlan, W. Cool-baugh, ELRiopelle, P. Heron, H. Ritz, C. Kauffman, A. Rhein-boldt, John fnderrieden. Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, A. Sehnert, E. Carqueville, F. Gaffney.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
FOR WEEK ENDING NOV. 23.
COMMERCIAL COURSE. •
G. Saylor, J. B. Coleman, G. Laurans, F. Vandervennet, J. Herrmann, T. Garceau, M. Williams, J. Vanderhoof. W. Fowler, A. Hamilton, J. Burke, A Ames. J. Fitzgerald, J. Krost, J. Kinney, T. H. Quinn, J. Fishburne. F. Schlink, G. Fishburne, P. W. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, R. Calkins, R. Kirby, E. Sugg, E. Pefferman, J. Patterson, A. Baca, T. Fishel, T. Garrity, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, J. Krost, J. Hagerty, W. Sheehon, W.‘Brady E. Moran, G. Cassidy, M. Kauffmann, A Gerlach, G. Sugg, J. W. Bell, C. Roos, S. Ryan, A Congar, F. Rettig.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Hadden, P: Nelson, P. Heron, G. Rhodius, Geo. Lowrey, R. Pleins, E. Carqueville, W. McDevitt, G. Lambin, J. Seeger, G. Rhodius, J. Scanlan, W. Coolbaugh.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the Competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
FOR THE WEEK ENDING NOV. 16.
Grammar—A Keenan, R. Johnson, J. Bell, F. Lang. T. Garceau, R. Kirby; Reading—W. Sheehon, G. Cassidy, N. Vanamee, T. Nelson, J. Ingwerson, C. McKinnon, R. French, R. Kirby, J. Murray, M. Williams; Arithmetic—W. Sheehon, C. McKinnon, L. Garceau, T. Nelson, F. Phelan, T. Garceau, W. Turnbull, C. Wittenberger. H. Henkel; Geography—J. Fitzgerald, R. Keenan, W. Ohlman, F. Carroll; Algebra—J. Healy, J. Larkin ; History —J. Larkin, R. Hayes, F. Carroll, C. Faxon.
jliihit Saru’s
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
PAR EXCELLENCE.
Misses L. Ritchie, A Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, L. Beall, J. Nunning, M. Walsh, M. Dailey, P. Gaynor, R. Casey, K. Hutchinson, L. O’Neill, L. Kelly, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A Henne-berry M. Spier, H. Russel, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, J. Richards, H. Hawkins. A Cullen, H. Dryfoos, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, L. Rodenberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, M. and E. Dalton, L. Weber, G. Kelley, C. Silverthorne, E. Bouton, G. Wells, E. Davis, E. Forrey, A Woodin, L. Pleins, D. and A Cavenor, L. Kirchner. K. Keliy, L. Schwass, M. Pomeroy. K. Burgie, J. Wilhelm, J. Burget, G. Conklin, L. Daven-Sort, M. Smalley, M. Usselmann, M. Halligan, M. Hungerford, . Burgie, L. Wier, J. Loman, E. Wright, 100 par excellence. A. Byrne, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, E. Lange, B. Wilson, M. Schultheis, J. Stough, D. Locke,I. Cook, C. Taylor, 100.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses C. Corrill, L. Hutchinson, A. McGrath, D. Hayes, E. Mulligan, L. Cox, M. Lambin, M. Cox, C. Van Namee, N. Hackett, A Williams. E Wootten, A. Getty, J. Butts, F. Fitz, L. Ellis, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Ewing, N. McGrath, A Morgan, L. Walsh, D. Gordon, A. Ewing. A. Kirchner, L. Chilton, I. Mann, L. Forrey, M. McFadden, J. Kingsbury.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses B. Spencer, E. O’Connor, H. Julius, J. Nun
ning. 2d Div.—Misses B. Wilson, M. Cravens, K. Hutchinson H. Hawkina	.
2d Class—Misses G. Wells, L. Kirchner, A Byrne, M. Julius, A. Harris.
3d Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, J. Cronin, L. O’Neill, M. Spier, C. Morgan. 2d Div.—Misses M. Usselman, A. Henne-bery, D. Locke, M. Pleins.
4th Class—Misses A. O’Connor, G. Kelly, D. Cavenor, K. Burgie, A. Gordon, M. and E. Thompson, J. Bennett. 2d Div.— Misses A. Cullen, A Kirchner, L. Hutchinson; J. Burgert, E, Lange, A McGrath, L. Johnson, B. Siler, M. Dalton, M. SehuL thies.
5th Class—Misses L. Walsh, M. O’Connor, N. McGrath, A. Walsh, L. Forrey, P. Gaynor. 2d Div.—Misses G. Wilhelm, _L, Weber H. Dryfoos, M. Walsh, A. Morgan, E. Forrey, J. Burgie.
6th Class—Misses M. Robertson, D. Hayes, M. Getty, E. Dalton, E. Bouton, L Kelly, A Woodin. I. Cook, M. Brady, L. Beall, L. Schwass, A Ewing, C. Cornll, M. Ewing, M. Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses L. Wier, G. Conklin, N. Hackett, M. Halligan, K. Casey, M. Coughlin.
7th Class—Misses L. Davenport,; C. Boyce, A. Peak, J. Loman, L. Tighe, E. Wright.
8th Class—Misses C. Van Namee, L. Cox, M. Davis, E. Mulligan.
9th Class—Misses L. Lambin, M. Cox.
10th Class—Misses L. Ellis, E. Wooten, Harp—Misses E. O’Connor, D. Cavenor. Organ—M. Usselmann.
Some names ;are omitted, want of diligence during practice hours being the cause. .
ART DEPARTMENT.
• DRAWING.
1st Class—Misses M. and E. Thompson.
Promoted to the 4th Class—Misses M. Smalley, J. Richards.
5th Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, L. Davenport, M. Spier, J. Cronin, A. Williams and A. Getty.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Miss A Cullen and L. Kirchner.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses L. Ritchie, C. Morgan and P. Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses E. Lange, S. Moran, M. O’Connor, D. Cavenor and M. Schultheis.
Private Lessons in Harmony—Misses O’Connor, B. Spencer J. Nunning and BL Julius.
General Harmony Class—Misses Wells, K. Hutchinson, J. Cronin, C. Morgan, A Harris, L. Kirchner, L. Weber, H. Hawkins, B. Wilson, H. Russel, A. Byrne, L. Pleins, D. Cavenor.
Theoretical Classes—Misses Lange, A Kirchner, G. Kelly, M. O’Connor, D. Locke, L. O’Neil, M. Usselmann, E. and M. Thompson, A. Hennebery, C. Silverthorne, M. Spier, A. Koch, M. Schultheis, A Cullen, L Sehnert.

The Greeks had a proverb which ran thus: “To dispute on the shadow of an ass.” This took rise from an anecdote which Demosthenes is said to have related to the Athenians, to excite their attention during his defence of a criminal, which was being but inattentively listened to. “A traveler,” he said, “ once went from Athens to Megara on a hired ass. It happened to be the time of the dog days, and at noon. He was much exposed to the unmitigated heat of the sun, and not finding so much as a bush under which to take shelter, he bethought himself to descend from the ass and seat himself under its shadow. The owner of the donkey, who .accompanied him, objected to this,' declaring to him that when he let the animal the use of its shadow was not included in the bargain. The dispute at last grew so warm that it came to blows, and finally gave rise to an action at law.” After having said so much, Demosthenes continued the defence of his client; but the auditors, whose curiosity he had piqued, were extremely anxious to know how the judges pecided on so singular a cause. Upon this, the orator commented severely on their childish injustice, in devouring with attention^ a paltry stoiy about an ass’s shadow, while they turned a deaf ear to a cause in which the life of a human being was involved. From that day, when a man showed a preference'for discussing small and contemptible subjects to great and important ones, he was said “ to dispute on the shadow of an ass.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	189
ATTORNEYS AT LAW,
SPEER «fc MITCHELL fN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUClCrS Gr. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Beal Estate Agent, Boom No 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
mHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJVNI1VG- & HOGFAJV [D. J. Hogan, of 74], Attorneys at Law, Boom 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ui.
JOHN F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE *fc DODGE [Chas J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CECA.MBEItIL.AJEN [of ’61], Attorney at, Law, Notary rubl.c and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Blkhart, ind.
CIVIL ENGINEERS & SURVEYORS.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of city and . county of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHU Et J. STACE [of ’61], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Is in Press, and Will be Published December 15,1876.
The Scholastic Almanac, will contain, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It will be printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For farther information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind. -
Price 35 cts., postpaid.
s
■f
The B’wsc,
A. McKay, Prop., nSTILES, J^ETOTTIG-A-^r. . Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
St, Marifs
(One Milo West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrn-mental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religions instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to ths educational requirem- nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every ponion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beauiifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
Tbe proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
F. MEYER, Agent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIBE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s30-ly
JAMES BONNEY
TSE PHOTOGRAPHER
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., -
SOUTH EETSTJO,
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday mornin? at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to
0)
0
tr*
'EM
0 0



a re
§
a
09
B
B‘
CD
w

W tn H
t? g>§ S a' ■•
K O
3
0
bd
B
w *
W H
m a
S &•
a!>
* 2
O Oq
re a
§ ff>
re M
e^»
a
jot zr c«£.
»
tog1
8 g"

g «•
3 2
CD &
jcLJo
2 U2 Et°
a
® Cw 0 ’ ♦JW
H rz W 0 o,
8 pl w 0 0
q
a
a
jq
M

0 B)
0
Bo
Q
(P
0^ p
“oo^ $ jog
• -B
. '3
6
3
s
6/10
re
3
5
§ p-
0 O
5 0
a o fd H ra
® 0 p

0 P &
U
3. »
0 p
t . . „b-r* -		
E o — o 2 o’ § r	Chicago. Mich. C: Niles . Jackson. Detroit .	
: :	; : :	
-1 w coo<>	Or p to *1 Or	
fjuj^ AC ©Q^OC	AOQWC OrCDPtOO	Ma
,	, W ' -g'=>	-*0 r r0 “a s	*-•
CK Ot *	G	1-4 - COt0t-*«O	M
© eopcop OOi Co ci) Cn	M » Q © 2 tnUl^OO	M • 2 M
a in| P-HV	a.m p.m	iy ess.
	©P3CC C5^	
co 15 10 50 20	‘-*23 ♦0 co © cnT3 © ©o	2 W
pm a.m 4.	CD J tn •	. c»	g	O M BP
c: 10 to O»	CO p 03 *1 Or	
WQWWA C UI c & c	CO tU 0» »U «-* © © ^» © Ot ♦ p -	ttlan tpres
3 r	3	3	w ST. • o
coor^bs^	ooaKCI©	
O Or coo* tn o oc too	© o» CO k-i © O to Or Or ©	i2<
’ ” B	” ; r 3	5	»n w

M
Blue-Glass Basin and Globes, mounted on a Golden-Bronze Standard, with Polished Marble Base.	’
No springs, weights, or hidden mechanism, but a simple law of hydrostactics practically applied. The, apparent absence of motive power excites general wonderment and surprise.
Always reliable, and in order.
A little Cologne added to the water makes it a delightful Perfume Foimtain, at slight expense, as the water is used over and over again. Height to top of Basin, 21 In.
OQ
Q
UQ
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
191
McDonald,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
CALIFORNIA k___ __	»«.	__
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? Yon want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company, It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is m the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt.Lake City, Cheyenue, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs. Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Green Bay. Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other. ’
This popular rou'e is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smPoth. well-b ’ lasted and perfect track of steel rails. Westinghouse a.r brakes. Miller’s safety platform and coupler’, the celebrated oiullman Palace Sleeping < ’ars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run. the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all pointe West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modem railway t raveling.
PULLMAN ETAILACJJE CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missonri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hughitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Dep: , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jaek-
‘ sonville, H.. and Louisiana, Mo.......2	40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line......................•......7	40 am 9 00 pm
Pekin and Peoria Fast Express...........4	00	pm	10	00	am
Peoria Day Express......................7	50	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 40 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.... .7 50 pm 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 2 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, It I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. Thia is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, comer Van Buren ana Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express...'...........'...10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A. M-SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
’•‘Gen’lPass.’Agent.	General Superintendent.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER nr
Watches, Clocks,
.	-A.2STU
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TA.JB1AE.
NOVEMBEB, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Cars ?	No. 2.	No. 6.	No. 4.
° NEW YORK.	Day Ex. Ex. Snnd’y	Pac. Exp. Daily.	Night Ex. Ex Sa & Su
Lv. CHICAGO		9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m. 11 25 “	10 00 p.m. 6 15 a.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 10 p.m. 1 04 a.m.		
44 Rochester					11 12 a.m.	5 54 p.m. 7 05 “
41 Pittsburgh		2 10 “	12 15 “	
TaV. Pittsburgh				2 55 “	1 10 p.m.	8 10 “
Ar CrAssnn	.....			
“ Harrisburg		11 30 a.m.	11 05 “	3 45 a.m.
44 Rnltimore................	6 25 p.m. 9 07 “		7 35 “
44 Washington				9 02 “
14 Philadelphia.		3 30 “	3 10 a.m.	7 35 “
“ New York		6 45 “	6 50 “	10 25 “
44 New Haven		11 52 “	10 40 “	3 26 p.m
44 Hnrtfnrd 		.....	.....	1 27 a.m.	12 11 p.m. 12 57 p.m. 3 48 “	
44 Springfield				2 20 “		
44 Providence...............	5 10 “		7 4“
“ Boston		6 15 “	4 50 “	9 05 “
THIS IS THE ONTLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City. Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. H. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, April 16,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 40 a m.. Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 40 p m; Buffalo 9 05.
10 36 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35pm; Cleveland 10 10.
12 27 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 11 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40: Cleveland, 7(0; Buffalo, 1 05p n .
11 35 pm, Fast Mail. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 3 50am;
Cleveland 710 a m., Buffalo 12 45 p m.
7 OO pm,Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 41 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 -15 p m, Chicago 6 am.
5 06am,Pacific E>press. Arrives at Laporte 6; Chicago 820 am.
4 54 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50;
Chicano, 8 20	•
S Olam, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 01 a m; Chi* cago 11 30 a. m. -	-	- -
3 38 a m., Fast Mail. Arrives at Laporte 4 28 a.m.; Chicago, 6 55 a. m.
8 55 a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.	■
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
192
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.


The Naturalists’ Agency
TAXIDERMY.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to ren, the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shell st Fossils, Mound-Builders, Relics, and all objects of Natural History except Minerals. These latter we still keep in No. 3725.
The demand upon me for taxidermists’ work has induced me to secure the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, a gentleman who was employed by the Smithsonian Institution in South America for 3 years. I am now fully prepared to do the best kind of taxidermists’ work at exceedingly low prices. I have a very large stock of Western and Southern birds on hand. Also, Heads and Antlers for Museums, DiningRooms, Halls and Libraries.
As it is the intention to issue a Zoological Catalogue at no very distant date, those having collections or specimens for sale will consult their interests by forwarding particulars at as early a date as possible.
Our Mineralogical Catalogue, illustrated by over §300 worth of engravings, is now ready for distribution. Free to all customers; to others on receipt of 10 cents for postage. I desire especially to call attention to my remarkably fine specimens of Amazon Stone, of which I bare or have had nine-tenths of all the specimens ever found. I have made six trips to the locality and think I may safely say that no more will be found. Good crystals from 15 cents to §1 each.
My Titanium Minerals are the finest ever known. Besides the Hydrated Titanic Acid, Hydrotitanite, a mineral recently analyzed by Dr. Krenig, of Pennsylvania University, I have also remarkably well-crystalized Perofskites, Brookites of ‘ enormous size. Rutiles geniculated till they form a circle, Schorlomite, Warwickite, &c.
In Peganite we have large surfaces covered with minute bright-green crystals. We have the most beautiful green Wavellite ever known, colored by vanadic acid.
The Columbite crystals that occur in the Amazon stone are very interesting. The Graphite from New Mexico occurs in hexagonal prisms.
The Embolite from New Mexico is the best ever found at any locality. We are selling Amethyst at far lower prices than it was ever sold before. We have sold over §1,000 worth since the 10th of July.
Oct. 20th.—We have just received over 3,500 lbs. of minerals from the Yellowstone National Park Company, comprising magnificent Amethyst, Agate, Zeodes, saddle-shaped dolomite crystals, several inches; fine chalcedonies, geyserites, Pealite, &c.. &e. I have also just received 2,000 lbs. of Amethyst from north of Lake Superior. These I am selling at about the rate that they have ever been sold for before in the East. Have also received boxes from North Carolina, New Hampshire, Canada, Colorado (Hamiltonite, Bismuthinite) Rhode Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Maryland, &c., &c.
100 Crystals and Fragments for Study,............§	1.00
100 Specimens, Students’ Size, Larger, ........ 5 00
100 Specimens, Larger, Amateurs’ Size, 2J^+li^ inches, 10.00 Chalcophanite, Roepperite, Ludwigite, Jacobsite, Trogerite Zuenerite, Hexagonite (?), and most new species on hand. Lithia mica, 20 cents per pound, or §15 per hundred weight.
We have on hand a magnificent suite of crinoids from Illinois; Trilobites, coal measure plants, &c., from Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee, and other States.
In Shells we have recently received invoices from the Pacific coast and islands, Florida, &c.
Of Prehistoric Relics we have a very interesting assortment
Water vessels in the shape of frogs, fish, women, some painted. Pipes, axes, skinners, arrows, &c. Water bottles of the present fashionable shape made thousands of years ago. We shall soon issue a circular illustrated by engravings of some of the more remarkable forms that we have.
Our collection of plants is very fine, comprising many that are rare, from the far North and West.
We have several hundred volumes of rare old works on Mineralogy, Chemistry and the Natural Sciences. Among them are many of the most interesting of the State and Government Reports.
Co.lections of Gems, Ores, Earthy Minerals, Minerals used in any Art or in Agriculture, on hand or put up to order.
We have in stock a large number of showy Specimens for Museums, of Amazon Stone, Cairngorum Stone, Loadstone lifting horse-shoes, &c., &c.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D., Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow Am. Ass'n Adv. of Science.
3725 and 3727 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
a. c?A.T^oi.ic .Torri&iirA.x.
^otedtofhe^onoroftfe
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROYRD BY HIS BLINSS PUB IX., AND MANY EMINENT PRELATE
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorset,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen.Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
Five Years..............................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each).........20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MABIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
1
1
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAM E
,	TITZDIA-JSTA.-
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.	'
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee................................;.	§5 00
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included); Bed and Bedding, Washing and a
Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150 00
Instrumental Music................................. 12 50
Use of Piano....................................... 10 00
Use of Violin...................................... 2 50
Telegraphy.........................;............... 10 00
Vocal Lessons, 4 ®enTA S'ass Principles..;......... 10 00
’ ( Vocal Culture...................... 15 00
Elocution—Special Course...  ...................... 5 00
Use of Library (per session)................;...... 1 00
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic..............7...... 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus........ 5 00
1 Classical Course............... 10 00
Graduation Fee,< Scientific Course................. 10 00
. '	('Commercial Course..............'	-5.00
Students who spend Summer vacation at the University are charged extra......................... 40 00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t., Notbe Dame, Ind.