Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturus ; vive quasi eras moriturns.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 25, 1879.
Number 8.
A Tribute of Grateful Memory to Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, C. S. C.
LITE PRESIDENT OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
As the noble walls arise
Of the new collegiate pile, And the warm autumnal skies, Glow so tranquilly, meanwhile Memory loving, Memory holy, With meek eyes, downcast and lowly, And with footstep slow, Backward turns, and seems lost wholly In times long ago.
With Affection’s power and skill, . She recalls one face, one form: Lol the dead are with us still,
Eyes still bright, and pulse still warm;
One, who five years since presided Notre Dame ; who loved, who guided Her ingenuous youth;
One whose heart was undivided In its love for truth,
Walks among us, as of old.
He exults with us to-day, In the blessings manifold
God has showered upon our way.
Is this but a fancy fleeting, Tantalizing with false greeting ? Nay. The soul still lives Though the heart has ceased its beating And no token gives.
P6re Lemonnier, who on earth Knew ambition but to shun;
Who beheld in life no worth
But God’s glory, nobly won, Now beholds augmented graces Gathering round these treasured places;
Sees the power renewed For suppressing what debases, For perfecting good.
Oh, the active will that strove, Ever tireless, ever true, ' Ceases not this day to love, Ceases not pray’rs to renew.
Memory loving, Memory holy, With meek eyes, downcast and lowly, And with footstep slow,
Grateful turns, and seems lost wholly In times long ago.
Next in point of meanness to doing a man an injury is to do him a favor and every now and then remind him of it
Thomas Heywood.
One of the last of the dramatists of the Elizabethan period was Thomas Heywood, of whose birth we know comparatively little, and still less of his death. From his writings we are able to say that he was a native of Lincolnshire, and a fellow of Peter-House, Cambridge. The drama of that period would be very insufficiently estimated were we to judge of it only from the merits of its greatest men. We find some who acquired a name worthy of mention in some particular branch—nay more, rivalled those holding a high place in general literature.
It is not every one who possesses that many-sided genius of Shakespeare, which
“. . . Like a circle in water, Which never ceaseth to enlarge itself, Till by broad spreading it disperse to naught.” The skill of Massinger, for instance, lay in depicting the higher and nobler virtues; nor can the smoothness, the melody and the ease of his versification be surpassed by the great master himself; but what we admire most is that he stands without a rival in the religious, the pure, and the moral tone pervading his plays. We have, on the other hand, in Ford a master of those arts which Massinger lacked, namely, in depicting blighted affections, disappointed ambition, and everything that elicits our sympathy. He in his time, together with ‘that race’ all of whom spoke the same language, and ‘ had a set of moral feelings and notions in common,’ loved to sport and dally with forbidden themes, and while thus tempting the imagination and awaking those slumbering fires of pride, passion and wickedness that lurk in the recesses of the human heart, he depicted what he saw and felt; nor could anybody have described the condition of man engulphed in the depravities of life better than he who flung himself into the full tide of the passions, sounded its depths, and gave expression to those promptings by which men in that state are borne onward in a headlong career. Again we behold Middleton looking upon his characters with feverish anxiety, such as one generally feels when beholding the trial of a great criminal, or watch his behavior on the scaffold. The personae of Webster lay out their corpses in prison, and at midnight,i n unhallowed ground, they sing the dirge over them.
Heywood had his own peculiar role, for, in his own phlegmatic way, quietly and without any seeming concern, he introduces his characters while they are yet moving in society, and contents himself with a sad smile at their follies, or with a frequent warning to them of the extent of their crimes. As a dramatist, he had a poetical fancy and abundance of classical imagery; but his taste was defective, and scenes of low buffoonery, mixed here and there with
114	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the merry incidents and witty jests, detract much from his pieces. However, he by no means indulges in the low ribaldry of his contemporaries, for there is a natural repose in his scenes when compared with others written about the same time. Heywood was a voluminous writer, for he informs his readers that he had ‘an entire hand or at least a main finger’ in two hundred and twenty plays. We find him exercising his ready pen from 1596 down to 1640. He wrote also, besides attending to his business as an actor, several prose works. Of his immense library only twenty-three plays have reached us, the best of which are “A Woman killed with Kindness,” the “English Traveller,” “A Challenge for Beauty,” “ The Royal King and Loyal Subject,” “The Lancashire Witches,” the “Rape of Lucrece,” “Love’s Mistress,” etc.
In one of his prologues he informs us of the many sources of his prodigious labors.
“ To give content to this most curious age, The gods themselves we’ve brought down to the stage, And figured them in planets; made even.hell Deliver up the Furies, by no spell Saving the Muse’s rapture,—further we Have trafficked by their help. No history We have left unrifled; our pens have been dipped As well in opening each hid manuscript As tracks more vulgar, whether read or sung In our domestic or more foreign tongue.
Of fairies, elves, nymphs of the sea and land, The lawns, the groves, no number can be scanned Which we have not given feet to.”
In his “Hierarchy of the Angels” he tells us how the names of his contemporaries became corrupted in common conversation. He says:
“Mellifluous Shakespeare, whose enchanting quill Commanded mirth or passion, was but Will;
And famous Jonson, though his learned pen Be dipped in Castaly, is still but Ben.
Fletcher and Webster, of that learned pack None of the meanest, were but Jack;
Decker but Tom, nor May, nor Middleton, And he’s but now Jack Ford that once was John.”
Here and there in the plays of Heywood we find many verses of songs, some of which are worthy of notice both for the ease and harmony which they possess.
“Pack clouds away, and welcome day;
With night we banish sorrow;
Sweet air, blow soft; mount, look aloft, To give my love good-morrow.
Wings from the wind, to please my mind, Notes from the lark I’ll borrow;
Bird, prime thy wing, nightingale, sing To give my love good-morrow. To give my love good-morrow Notes from them I’ll borrow.
“ Wake from thy rest, robin redbreast;
Sing, birds in every furrow;
And from each hill let music shrill, Give my fair love good-morrow. Blackbird and thrush in every bush— Stare, linnet, and cock-sparrow— You pretty elves amongst yourselves Sing my fair love good-morrow.
To sing my love good-morrow	. .•
Sing, birds in every furrow.”	~ ,
It would seem from this and many others that rural life had a peculiar charm for him, although he never had any personal experience of the pleasure to be found in the
solitude of the groves. Yet his effusions of pastoral poetry, which may be picked up here and there, are not unworthy a greater singer.
“We that have known no greater state Than this we live in, praise our fate;
■ For courtly silks in cares are spent, When country’s russet breeds content. The power of sceptre we admire, But sheep-hooks for our use desire. Simple and low is our condition, For here with us there’s no ambition.
“ We with the sun our flocks unfold, Whose rising makes their fleeces gold; Our music from the birds we borrow, They bidding us, we them, good-morrow! Our habits are but coarse and plain, Yet they defend from cold and rain; As warm too, in an equal eye As those bestained in scarlet dye. .
“Those that delight in dainties’ store One stomach feed at once, no more; And when with homely fare we feast, With us it doth as well digest; And many things we better speed For our wild fruits no surfeits breed. If we sometimes the willow wear By subtle swains that are foreswear, We wonder whence it comes, and fear They’ve been at court and learnt it there!' .	 P. J. M.
The Dogs of Constantinople.
BY AN OLD TRAVELLER.
The dogs of the capital of the Turkish Empire deserve a special mention. Were the comparison not somewhat offensive, I would feel inclined to say that they differ as much from the dogs of Christendom as the Turks themselves differ from Christians. It would be quite an easy matter to write a long treatise on their manners and history (I use the latter word advisedly), but the readers of the Scholastic need not begin to feel any anxiety, as it is my intention to confine myself to a few of their most prominent traits.
In the first place, the canine race in Turkey resemble the wolf more than they do the mastiff. Without the strength of the latter, they have all the savageness of the former, especially in their dealings with Europeans. As a proof of this, I might adduce the torn clothes of the strangers who come to admire the wonders of Stamboul, and their limbs not unfrequently transformed into mincemeat, when they have neglected to learn the magic word which alone can protect them from the attacks of these inhospitable beasts.
I would advise all persons intending to visit Turkey to be sure to master this magic word. The task is not a very difficult one; the word is a simple monosyllable, which in Turkish sounds like “ Houst,” and which may he freely translated into English by an emphatic “ Get out! ” But it is not sufficient merely to know the word, you must also be able to pronounce it in Turkish fashion—that is, with calmness and dignity, and in tones which if not entirely sepulchral, must be at all events as cavernous as possible. The first “ Houst,” articulated in this manner, will tranquillize the most obstreperous canine of Con-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
115

'f


KA

5



fa
„ stantinople, as if by enchantment. An air of contemptuous J assurance on your part almost leads him to think that you are a Mussulman in disguise; and, however lacking he may be in reverence in other ways, he at least professes a profound respect for everything that has a Mahometan look about it. If you have a long beard besides, he will treat y°u almost with courtesy.
The Turks tolerate these dogs because they find in them excellent protection against thieves. In order to be able to understand this, one must know how things are carried ’ on in Constantinople, and in fact in all Mahometan cities.
The Turks, unlike Europeans, never admit the dog under the domestic roof. Their pride disdains the idea of treating him as a companion, and they are punished by never find' ing in him a faithful friend. They think that they have ■" done enough for him if they allow him the free use of the street Thus, left without a master, and even without a name,—for throughout the East the dog is unvariably addressed by the term Kiopek, dog, kept far from the companionship of man, he leads a life less savage indeed than if he were in the woods, but still savage enough, since he cannot satisfy the instinct which prompts him to attach himself to a superior being. The harshness of the Mahometans is thus the primary cause of the brutality of their dogs.
.The poor brutes pass their lives in the open air, exposed to all the inclemencies of the season, and subsisting on the offal which is thrown into the streets. Nevertheless, their marvellous instinct has taught them that there must be a certain union among themselves in order that they may exist. They, have therefore, apparently divided themselves into different tribes, and the city into different quarters. Each tribe, according to the number and strength^ occupies one or more streets or public squares, which thus become for them a home and a country. A tribe can never cross the frontiers of a neighboring tribe without a pitched battle. The tribe whose dominions have been invaded immediately rallies to the rescue, and is ready to defend the inviolability of its territority.
The Turks of course never trouble themselves about the dissensions that spring up within these canine republics; all they care about is that these animals are of some use to them. If they do nothing for the dogs, the dogs do a great deal for them. Where could there be found robbers sharp . enough to steal a march on a police force which is always camping out on the public streets, which the least noise arouses, and which all attempts to corrupt are ineffectual ? To bribe them, whole car-loads of provisions would be necessary; and car-loads are rather difficult to manage when one is on a clandestine excursion. To poison them would perhaps be cheaper, but then there would be so many to poison—at least fifty thousand. The task would plunge the cleverest burglars of London, Paris, or New York into despair. The Turks are well aware of this, and they ijoast of it; in fact, defying the Europeans to introduce burglary or highway-robbery among them. So long as they retain the services of a police-force of this kind, it will be certainly a very difficult matter; and besides, such a force is far from costly, and requires no appropriation of Government funds for its support.
Besides serving as policemen, the dogs likewise act the part of city scavengers. The Turks are not more careful about cleaning the streets of their capital than about protecting it against thieves. This task, therefore, falls to the lot of the dogs, and the more famished they are, of
course the better they acquit themselves of it. It is taken for granted that whatever remains over and above their disgusting banquets will be carried off by the winds or swept by the rain into the sea. Whatever may be thought about the advisableness of counting exclusively on a patrol of dogs for the defence of life and properly, it must be acknowledged that the Turks could easily find a much more, efficient corps of streetsweepers. The pestilence would certainly decimate their city less frequently if they showed themselves a little more energetic in seconding the sanitary efforts of their canine friends.
* I have already mentioned two reasons to account for the great esteem in which these dogs are held by the Moslems. There is a third and still more satisfactory reason—ie., the extraordinary aversion in which Europeans are held by these animals. In this respect they seem to be really inspired by political animosity, and are fully as bloodthirsty as even the Janizaries could have been. As soon as a Christian appears, all quarrels among differenttribes cease, and with wonderful unanimity and enthusiasm they all combine against the common enemy. War once begun against him, there can be no truce till he has established his claim to their, confidence and respect by a “Houst” which has the ring of the true metal about it—such a one, in short, as will make them consider him an orthodox Mussulman. Of course they would be far less bold were they not secretly urged on by the Turks, who take a malicious pleasure in seeing the different races of dogs at war, for we must remember that they always speak of Christians as “ Kiopeks.”
The Science of Architecture in Seminaries.
Besides approving of the course of book-keeping now being taught in the diocesan Seminary of Cleveland, of which the Scholastic lately quoted a mention, our excellent contemporary the Luxemburger Gazette proposes that a course of architecture and of Christian art would also be appropriate and useful in seminaries. The Gazette gives the following reasons in favor of the measure: “It is much to be deplored that many church buildings in several dioceses of the United States are nothing but failures, both in regard of architecture and regular style. Thousands, perhaps millions, of dollars have been squandered, because many clergymen, not knowing the very rudiments of the art of building, are unable to counteract the ignorance and perhaps the dishonesty of architects and contractors. In Germany, France and Belgium, where a revival of Christian art was the order of the day, the Bishops themselves taught these branches in their own seminaries, and the results of their praiseworthy endeavors are now visible in the stately basilicas and sanctuaries that have sprung up within the last decade of years. Almost nine-tenths of the “better” American church buildings are a libel on every rule of art and good taste. In the science of building and of poking a fire, everybody thinks himself the smartest, even though he happens to be the most ignorant We do not want our clergymen to become regular architects, but since church architecture and Christian art justly belong to pastoral theory, a knowledge of these branches is to a certain degree indispensable. There is not so much difficulty in becoming acquainted with these things as people may think, and in actual building book-keeping is also “ a very useful acquirement.”	•
116	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
[From the South. Bend Herald, Oct. 15^.]
Notre Dame University.
As an instance of enterprise crowned with success, we know of nothing more remarkable than the rebuilding and reopening of the University of Notre Dame. On the 23d of last April the buildings were destroyed by fire; the work which had slowly grown up for over thirty-five years was turned into smoke and ashes in almost as many minutes. The students, the only source of income of the institution, were scattered over the country, and to an observer it would seem that Notre Dame vrould have to begin at the bottom of the hill again and toil up the long ascent for thirty-five years more. That was how it looked last April to an outsider. The officers of the University, however, declared that new buildings would be constructed during the summer, and classes opened as usual on the first Tuesday of September. That this seemingly extravagant hope has been realized is but half the reality. Not only has the institution been rebuilt and the classes opened as usual, but the new buildings are altogether more commodious and beautiful than the old, and the attendance of students is one-fourth or one-third larger than at any time within the past four or five years. Looking at the smoking ruins last April, one might conclude that the glory of Notre Dame had departed for years, if not forever; but looking at those beautiful though still unfinished edifices to-day, overflowing as they are with students, one is almost tempted to believe that the fire of last April was the greatest blessing that has ever come to the institution—that April fire has brightened her whole future.
The new buildings, being built together, have been constructed in a single plan and from the experience of the past. The result is great convenience—a model college building with all the modern improvements—warmed with steam, lighted with gas, and with warm and cold water throughout.
The only serious loss which still remains unrepaired, and from which the Uuiversity can hardly recover for years, is the loss of the libraries, cabinets and museums. Steps have been taken to make new collections for these purposes, however, and judging by what has been done in other respects we have no doubt that success will in the end also attend these efforts.
We are confident that a great future is in store for this institution, whose prosperity is so closely connected with that of this city. Notre Dame and South Bend have grown up together, and have mutually benefitted one another. We are therefore glad of its prosperity as an important factor in the prosperity of the city. We could almost as well spare one of our great manufactories as to spare the College, and we trust the most cordial relations will continue to subsist between the city and the University in the future, as they have since the beginning. “ Prospering and to prosper ” is the Herald's greeting to both.
—It is related by a Chester lady that when General William Henry Harrison was running for the Presidency he stopped at the old Washington House, in Chester, for dinner. After dinner, wine was served. It was noticed that the General pledged his toasts in water, and one of the gentlemen from New York, in offering a toast, said: “ General, will you not favor me by drinking a glass of wine?” The General declined, in a very gentlemanly manner. Again he was urged to join the party in a glass of wine. This was too much. He rose from the table, his tall form erect, and in the most dignified manner replied: “ Gentlemen, I have refused twice to partake of the winecup—that should have been sufficient; though you should press the cup to my lips, not a drop shall pass the portal. I made a resolve when I started in life that I would avoid strong drink, and I have never broken it. I am one of a class of seventeen young men who graduated, and the other sixteen fill drunkards’ graves—all through the pernicious habit of social wine-drinking. I owe all my health, happiness and prosperity to that resolution. Will you now urg me?”
Art, Music and Literature.
—Dr. R. D. Joyce’s new poem, “Blanid” is highly praised by critics in the East.
—Mr. Frost Johnson is painting a full-length portrait of Cardinal McCloskey.	'
—The Marquis of Bute has just completed and is about to publish the first translation into English of the Roman Breviary of the Catholic Church.
—Jules Verne’s “Tribulations of a Chinaman in China ” has been translated into English by Virginia Champlin, and will be published in November by Lee & Shepard. "
—Mr. Swinburne’s “ Study of Shakspeare in Three Periods,” believed to be his best piece of literary analysis, is already in press in London, and R. Worthington announces that he will bring it out here.
—The new stone Cathedral at Little Rock, Ark., now nearly completed, is a beautiful structure, and when finished will, it is said, be the finest architectural monument in the State. The style is pure Gothic.
—Mr. Swinburne has kept out of London during the past season, and has devoted himself to the writing of a lengthy dramatic poem which has Sappho for its heroine. He lives in bachelor retirement with his mother at Henley-on-Thames.
—Much interest has been felt in Florence at the discovery of over six hundred paintings belonging to the masters of the sixteenth century, laid away to rot and perish in Government buildings; the authorities intend placing them in the royal gallery of the Uffizi.
—Mrs. Wood, better known under her literary nom de plume of Minnie Mary Lee, has. with her daughter, Miss Mary, opened a school at 211 Wacouta st., St. Paul, Minn. Besides the ordinary branches, Latin and French, drawing, painting, needlework, and vocal and instrumental music are taught at her school. Mrs Wood is a convert to the Catholic Faith, and since her conversion has written several popular stories.
—A band of Benedictines, from the suppressed monastery of Beusen, in the principality of Hohenzollern-Sigma-ringen, now inhabit the Abbey of Monte Cassino, in Italy, and are engaged on a series of frescoes, which are said to be very artistic and original. The subjects are taken from the Apocalypse. Preparations are now being made for the celebration, next year, of the centenary of its founder, St. Benedict.—McGee's Illustrated, Weekly.
—Of the late William M. Hunt a characteristic little story is told by a Boston correspondent of the Art Amateur. A young critic one day rashly ventured to suggest that M. Millet, Mr. Hunt’s venerated friend, “ missed it ” in not choosing now and then more elevated subjects for his pictures than the coarse French clodhoppers he loved to paint. “ My God! man, what is nobler than a man wresting and wringing his bread from the stubborn soil, by the sweat of his brow and the break of his back, for his wife and children! ” cried Hunt, with dilated eyes and quivering fist raised above his head as if to strike the trembling wretch to earth.
—The Irish harp was about four feet high. It was without pedals, and was carried slung to the back. That of King Brian Boru, killed in the battle of Clontarf, in 1014, still exists in the Museum of Trinity College, Dublin. It is black with age, and polished, but now worm-eaten, and and is adorned with silver ornaments. It was taken by his son Teague to Rome after the battle, and presented to the Pope, with the crown and regalia. A succeeding Pope presented it to Henry VIII, with the title of Defender of the Faith, and Henry gave it to the first Earl of Clanri-carde, in whose family it was held until the beginning of the eighteenth century. It then passed through several hands until 1786, when the College became its owner.
—Mr. John Mortimer Murphy, in his new “Rambles in Northwest America,” gives it as his opinion that “ no river in the world, the Nile perhaps excepted, can equal the Columbia in variety and grandeur of beauty. The Rhine, in comparison with it, is only a rivulet, and its famous heights only hillocks, compared to the stupendous pinnacles and chains that stretch for miles along the shores of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	117
j the great river of the West. . . . What river but this can i show mountains a mile high, rising perpendicularly from i the water’s edge; terraces that extend for a distance of 300 miles along its banks, at an elevation of from 100 to 1,000 j,	feet; towering crags that loom up apart to a height of 900
,	feet; trees that have an altitude varying from 100 to 300
i feet; and an outline of its own that spreads out in places I into a lake six or seven miles wide, or contracts into spaces ' forty or fifty feet in width? None. Hence it stands pre’ 4 eminent in its sublime grandeur.”
;	—The Literary World says of John Boyle O’Reilly’s
।	“ Moondyne ”: “ It is seldom that an American novel meets
I _ ' with such a success in its first edition as to call speedily * - - for a new edition from new plates, in an improved form.
This is the signal honor which has befallen John Boyle j . O’Reilly’s ‘Moondyne,’ of which we took occasion to speak, upon its first appearance, in our issue of July 5th ■	last. In spite of certain defects, and without some quali-
'	ties which are needful to commend it to the taste of many
’ readers, it is certainly one of the powerful works of the year, and fully deserves the ‘lift’ which Roberts Brothers have given it. Its material is very fresh and picturesque, - and the author’s aggressive purpose is sound and wholesome. Its pictures of wild life in the Australian bush are full of interest, and a sweet strain of true Catholic piety appears in it here and there. Mr. O’Reilly has done so i	well in this his first work of fiction, that we hope he will
r	give us another out of his very marked experience.”
|	—Lately, in a German review called Literarischer Hand-
j weiser, a critique-appeared on Langhan’s Lectures on mu-1 sical history. The author, who is a Protestant, was severely taken to task for some errors concerning Catholic church!	music in particular. The writer of this drew the attention
j	of Emil Seifert, a friend of the historian, to the article,
i whereupon Seifert sent the critique to Langhans. In a reply s to his friend, Langhans says: “ Thanks for the Literarisclier I	Handweiser, which, however, c&raepostfestum; for the same
' had already been sent to me from Munster, very fortunately ; T	early enough to correct in the second edition, though al-
i	ready printed, the mistakes signalized in the first. You
’	were right then, my dear Seifert, in not doubting of my
।	being susceptible of a critical correction. Especially do I
, ever more conceive the narrowness of the Protestant stand; point, and my reverence towards the Catholic Church is steadily growing.... Do write to me at length what posi-। tion you assume towards Gregorian Chant and the Catholic ; Church. I consider the preservation, respectively the . 7 renovation, of the former as a fundamental condition of the ’ further development of our music; my views concerning । the latter I have already mentioned above.”—Catholic i Union, Buffalo.
—In the foreign letters of the Detroit Free Press, the i writer describes a Latin manuscript of the Gospels, written in Ireland 1,000 years ago, in Gothic letters of gold an inch high, upon the folio leaves of vellum alternately white and violet. The work is now in the Royal Library ' * of Stockholm, and it is supposed was carried off from Ire-|	land by some pirate horde of Norsemen. The Free Press
।	correspondent states that “a sister-work by the same
writer, an Irish monk, is still in Canterbury Cathedral, r with date 880.” The manuscript at Stockholm bears the following inscription: “In Thy Name, our Lord Jesus Christ, I, Alfred Aldorman, and Werburg my wife, obtained this book from a heathen war troope, with our pure v treasure of gold. And this did we two for the love of God, r and for our souls behoof, and for that we would not that this book should longer abide in heathenness; and now will we give it to Christ’s Church, God to praise, and glory and worship, in thankful remembrance of His passion, and for the use of the holy brotherhood, who, in Christ’s Church do daily speak God’s praise, and that they may every mouth read for Alfread and for Werburg and for Ahldryd [their daughter], their souls to eternal health, as long as x. they have declared before God that baptism [holy rites] "* shall continue in this place. Even so, I, Alfred Dux, and Werburg, pray and beseech in the name of God Almighty, ( and of all His saints, that no man shall be so daring as to sell or part with this holy book from Christ’s Church so X long as baptism there may stand. (Signed), Alfred, Wer-
burg, Ahldryd.”
Scientific Notes.
—An American engineer has been studying the great wall of China. It is 1,728 miles long, and being built without the slightest regard to the configuration of the ground, is sometimes carried 1,000 feet down into abysses. Brooks and small rivers are bridged over by it, and strong towers on both sides protect large rivers.
—The Mexican volcano Orizaba, 17,300 feet above the sea level, has been ascended by M. Athaira, a resident in Puebla. Thirteen persons accompanied him, one of whom died at the top from rarefaction of the air, and another a few days afterward from erysipelas caused by the reflection of the sun on the snow. 7,000 steps had to be cut in the snow to gain the summit, and the expedition occupied four days, one of which was a blank, owing to rain and snow. Baron Muller, in 1859, first made the ascent, and he has had very few successors.
—It is pleasant to know that the most famous opticians in the world are Alvan, Clark & Sons, of Cambridgeport, Mass., while the second is Grubb, of Dublin. The Massachusetts firm has recently received from the Russian Government the order for the object-glass of the new telescope lor the Pulkowa Observatory, which is to be 32 inches in diameter, the largest ever attempted. The price of this glass is to be §32,000. The Irish firm has received from the Austrian Government an order for a great telescope, the glass of which is to be 28 inches in diameter.— Boston Pilot.
—Terrible trinkets have been devised in France. Formed in the shape of a scarf pin, they are connected with a hidden electric battery, so small that it may be carried in the pocket, and by it worked in such a fashion as to become truly appalling to the beholder. One, a death’s head with diamond eyes and an articulated jaw, is said to create peculiar surprise. As the spectator looks on, it rolls its optics and grinds its teeth, while its wearer, apparently unconscious of this extraordinary pin, pursues his ordinary avocations. The Scientific American of October the 25th gives illustrations, and particular explanations of the working of these singular trinkets.
—The Salisburia adiantifolia, or Japanese Jingko tree, in the Institute yard has borne good fruit again this year. This is the third year it has borne fruit, and it is the only one of its kind in the D. 8. that has ever fruited. It is peculiar in its flabelliform leaves, which are the largest forked-veined leaves known.—K. M. I. Hews. The Japan Gingko is a very peculiar tree in appearance, with its flabellate leaves so much like great butterfly-wings, and somewhat spare limbs standing straight out in a horizontal position. We have never seen its fruit, and would like to know what it resembles. Will not the editor of the Hews favor us with a description of it ?
—A singular discovery has been made at Petit-Cortail-lod, on Lake Neuchatel, Switzerland. The find consits of a single pile or pillar, 1 metre 65 centimetres long, of remarkable form and surmounted by a capital, underneath which are bored five holes corresponding with five similar holes at the other extremity. Conjectures as to the purpose for which this object was used are numerous. At first it was taken for a lake-dweller’s idol, but the most probable theory is that it served as a tool for the bending of bows, an idea which is derived from the size of the holes anti their distance from each other. The instrument, which is attributed by experts to the age of stone, is in a good state of preservation.
—It is a humiliating confession to make—but geography is pitiless, and our national vainglory must bow to its decrees—that for four hours in every twenty-four the entire territory of the United States is deprived of sunshine. As the sun goes down on our farthest Aleutian island its morning rays are just lighting up the hill-tops of the western coast of Ireland, and the breadth of the Atlantic lies between us and daylight. To our Fenian citizens this may be another and cogent reason for annexing the dear little Isle of the harp and the shamrock; but until it is done the exultant cry of the Rocky Mountain Presbyterian that the sun never sets on the United States, must be admitted to be a trifle exaggerated. It does set every day,
118
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and paradoxically, four hours before it rises.—Scientific American.
—The celebrated Dr. Field cured his diphtheria patients by sulphur. He put a teaspoonful of flour of brimstone into a wine-glassful of water, and stirred it with his finger instead of a spoon. When the sulphur was well mixed he gave it as a gargle, and in ten minutes the patient was out of danger. Instead of spitting out the gargle, he recommended the swallowing of it. In extreme cases, when the fungus was too nearly closing to allow the gargling, he blew the sulphur through a quill into the throat, and after the fungus bad shrunk he gave the gargle. If the patient cannot gargle, take a live coal, put it in a shovel, and sprinkle a spoonful or two of flour of brimstone upon it; let the patient inhale the fumes, and the fungus will die. Brimstone kills every species of fungus in a man, beast, or plant, in a few minutes. —Kaffnarian Watchman.
—At a sitting of the French Academy upwards of five years ago, M. Lesseps stated, upon the authority of the reports made by his engineers, that “ at the time the Israelites left Egypt under Moses’s leadership the ebb and flow of the tides of the Red Sea reached up to the foot of the Saragaim, near Lake Timsah.” If this be correct, it follows that the spot where the Israelities crossed the Red Sea was situated not to the south but to the north of the present extremity of its nothern arm. In his paper Les Mondes, Abbe Moigue has traced the course of the children of Israel day by day, in accordance with these new data, and he asks the whole Christain world, since the spot is now known where the Egyptians were swallowed up, to subscribe the requisite funds to enable excavations to be made, and “ the relics of the army overcome by the Almighty Himself to be brought to light. The finding of the remains of Pharoah’s army would be a powerful reason in favor of the truth of the Holy Scripture.” Many will, no doubt, remember the Abbe Guenee’s able vindication of the Scriptures against Voltaire’s charge that the engulfing of Pharoah’s army, and other Scriptural events of a like nature, were mere myths, having no foundation in fact. The Abbe, writing under the nom de plume of “ A Portuguese Jew,” brought forward such incontrovertible testimony in favor of Scripture authority, showing that petrified remains of Pharoah’s host—chariot-wheels, etc.—had been discovered in the Red Sea, that Voltaire acknowl-' edged his defeat to Father Guenee, who boarded at the same hotel, without knowing at the time, however, that he was the redoublable “ Portuguese Jew.”
—The comets on record exceed 800. What are called “ short period ” comets are: Encke’s, whose time of revolution is 5J4 years; De Vico’s,5%; Winnecke’s, 5^£; Brorson’s 5J£; Bida’s, D’Arresl’s, 6%; Faye’s, 7%; Mechain’s,
; Halley’s, 76%. The long period comets are those of 1680, whose time of revolution is 8,814 years; that of 1744, 122,683 years; of 1770,75,314 years; of 1811,3,000 years; of 1840, 13,864 years; of 1844, 102.050 years; of 1847, 13,918 years; of 1858,12,000 years; of 1860,15,864 years. Bielas’s comet divided into two parts in 1846, and in 1852 those parts were 1,250.000,000 miles apart, and had entirely disappeared by 1866. Coggia’s comet was discovered in 1874. It is non-periodical and was 133,000,000 miles from the sun when discovered. In July of that year it was within 62,000,000 miles of both earth and sun, and its tail was computed Jo be 12,000,000 miles in length. Donati’s comet, discovered in 1858, had a tail 40,000,000 miles long, and its main body very nearly collided with Venus. Although supposed to be vaporous, this comet was calculated by M. Faye to have the weight of a sea 327 feet deep and 40,000 square miles in extent. Halley’s comet has been identified as identical with the comets of 1531,1667,1666, and 1223. Its reappearance is prognosticated for 1912. Gucke’s comet possesses no tail, usually. In 1848, however, it presented two tails, one toward and one away from the sun. Lexel’s, or “the lost comet,” was caught or entangled among the satellites of Jupiter in 1770, reappeared in 1779, again became entangled, and has not been seen since. The spectroscope fails to show the chemical composition of comets. It was shown by Schiapavilli, in 1872, that comets are sometimes connected with meteoric showers, and his discovery has been indorsed by noted astronomers.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have missed the bright face of our Cornell friend, the Era, of late. What is the matter ?
—The Oberlin Review, for October the 1st, is before us, and, whatever the Yale Record may think or say to the contrary, it is a handsome and creditable specimen of college journalism. They have a society at Oberlin with the outlandish name of the Phi Kappa Pi Society, but we are glad to see that none of the “pi” gets into the paper. The Review is ably edited, and is a neat specimen of typography and printing.
—The Niagara Index is in on time, and has some very good things as well as some that are not so good. We don’t admire “Niagara’s” poetry in this number, but the philosophic “ Kurj’s” “Poetric-k Struggles ” makes ample amend. Success to him! Taken all in all, the Niagara Index is a lively, well-edited college paper. But is it not just a little too severe, we will not say hypercritical, in its censorship of some of its exchanges ?
—The American Catholic Quarterly Review for October has the following table of contents: I, “The Canadian Element in the United States,” by J. G. Shea, LL. D.; II, “ Modern and Ancient Philosophy Compared,” by the Rev. J. Ming, S. J.; Ill, “De La Salle: His Life and Work,” by M. O’R.; IV, “Recent Progress in Stellar Physics,” by Rev. J. M. Degni, S. J.; V, “ The Mormons,” by General John Gibbon, U. S. A; VI, “The Internal Condition of Russia,” byA.de G.; VII, “Cardinal Pole,” by Rev. M. J. McLoughlin; VIII, “ The Recent Encyclical Letter of Pope Leo XIII,” by Very Rev. James A. Corcoran, D. D.; IX, “ Book Notices. We regret that time does not allow us to give such a notice of the Review as we would wish, but we will endeavor to call the reader’s attention to this very praiseworthy periooical next week. It gives about 780 large 8vo. pages quarterly from masterly pens both in Europe and America, printed in the best manner possible, on handsome plate paper, for $1.25, or $5 a year. Published by Hardy & Mahony, 505-Chestnut St., Philadelphia.
—The November Catholic World has two important historical articles—one on the “Struggles of the Sixteenth Century in France,” the other a review, or rather condensation, of Taine’s Ancien Regime. The first of these shows how and why Protestantism failed to secure a footing in France, and in a new way goes over the old ground of the Edict of Nantes, the St. Bartholomew Massacre, etc. The second presents in startling colors the truly deplorable state-of France in the reign of Louis XV, and affords a sufficient explanation, if not excuse, for the outbreak of the first French Revolution. “Follette” is the title of a new and very promising story by that charming writer, Miss Kathleen O’Meara. “ The Gospel of Hygiene ” is an amusing and well-directed hit at a certain school of moral philanthropists. “ The City of St. John the Baptist” and “ A Day at Loretto ” are capital sketches of travel. A second paper on “Christian Art” introduces us to the Dutch and German schools and masters. “ Irish Affairs in 1782” gives the story of the uprising of the Irish Volunteers, and is an instructive comment on current Irish affairs. “ The Journey of a Greek Patriarch ” is very entertaining and quaint. “ Res Italic® ” deals with Col. Hay merle’s recent pamphlet, and “Current Events” surveys the present European situation.	.
—The University Press, published at the University of Wisconsin, is on our exchange table. Six editors, with the titles of Hesperian, Athenman Calliopean, Laurean, Castalian, and Linonian appended to the respective names, and representing, we presume, six of the college literary societies, would lead one to expect a literary treat in the contents of the paper, but we must confess we are some what disappointed. The editorials are good, and the personal and local columns up to the mark, but tire four pages constituting the literary or contributed department are be. low any standard that one might form for a college paper. The leading piece, “In a Library,” may be written by a very good little student, but the simplest rules of grammar
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	119
:	are utterly disregarded. With a little doctoring the piece
$ might pass muster, although what
“ Scribes of the spirit! let me own thy power,”
i or,
i	“ What tender frankness in all thy looks,
L-	As thus I question thee, O gentle books”
:	can mean, is a mystery to us. The leading prose article,
I “Reading” is as nonsensical a piece of hifalutin composi-[ tion as we have ever seen. The writer, who evidently has a '} high opinion of himself, wishes to pass for an authority j *	on books, but the books of the “ four great libraries ’’ have
f	evidently been to him a Pierean spring, from which he has
j had but sips that addled his brain. We hope the students 1 of the University of Wisconsin will follow the directly ‘ opposite path to that which he points out. He sees no beauty in Emerson, but is an ardent admirer of “ Ouida ” and “ George Sand,” and, as he says, there is sense as well as smut in Rabelais, he thinks that readers should “ not reject books simply because some over-nice or over-sensi-7	live people have condemned them.” “Tencidbe” says
;	one wise thing, and we will quote it for his benefit;
•	although he meant it for others, it will apply admirably
j	to himself: “ Do not begin too early to dabble in meta-
physical, phsychological and theological books. If you do, you will soon find yourself beyond your depth.” Unless “ Tencidbe ” quits reading dirty trash he will soon fall to a very low moral level, for a man’s company and his books A	have a powerful influence on his character. As to “R’s.”
“	“ Tendencies of the Physical Sciences ” it is hard to make
anything out of it. The writer hardly makes an assertion when he contradicts it. As he has placed himself astride of the fence, it is about as well to leave him there. We wish the University Press editors better luck in their next contributors. They must have been hard pressed to admit the present ones.
—The Philomathean, published by the Philomathean Society, of the Kentucky Wesleyan College, pays the Scholastic what it intended as a doubtful compliment, but we take it with the best of grace as a very good one. The * Philomathean, however, makes a mistake in its terminology ’ which we beg leave to correct. It says :
“ The Notre Dame Scholastic shows its sectarian qualities but too plainly. A stranger by looking at any one of its pages, could, tell what it represented.”
As to the latter—of course; why not? We have adopted a code of principles that have stood the test of nearly nineteen centuries, and why should we be ashamed of them ? We are k not in a quandary as to what we should say or believe in 7 this regard, therefore there is no need of subterfuge. But as to “ sectarian ” qualities, we deny that we have any such. We are Catholic, and as the writer of the above paragraph will know, if he takes the trouble to examine, the word < Catholic is the direct antithesis of “sectarian.” Catholic—Latin Gatholicus, Greek Katholikos, from kata, down, throughout, and olos whole—surely has no odor of “ sectarianism” about it; the latter, being derived from the Latin secare, sectum, to cut off, to separate, has nothing to * do with us, nor we with it, and we will not have it foisted upon us. “Sectarian”! By no means.
Society Notes.
—The Academia will be reorganized in a few weeks. Those who write three essays for the Scholastic are entitled to membership.
—The Thespians met Saturday night, declaimed two pieces, discussed Robert’s Rules of Order, decided to have a banquet, and then adjourned.
—The subject which the Columbians were debating when the fire interrupted their meeting will be discussed during the coming winter. We hope our friend Dick Mayer will return from Cleveland to give us the benefit of his researches into German history.
—The Columbians held their regular meeting Tuesday night. The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That no man should be elected for a third term to the Presidency of the United States.” Affirmative, B. Claggett and R. O’Brien. Negative, D. Donohue and T. Campbell
—At the 5th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association, which took place Oct. 19th, the principle declamations were delivered by O. Farrelly, H. Dunn, A. and W. Coghlin, Geo. Rhodius, J. Gordon, J. Larkin, J. W. Start, A. Boose, T. Byrne, A. Rheinboldt, W. Devitt, H. Devitt, A. Cabel, G. Castanedo, H. Vedder, W. Herrick.
—The 7th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Tuesday evening, Oct. 21st. Masters G. Woodson, C. Welty, J. Courtney and W. Cool-baugh delivered declamations. Freddie Farrelly sang a very comic song. The Society is now in good working order, and intends to appear in public sometime before the close of the first session.
—The societies have now settled down to serious work, and we trust that they will not waste all their sweetness on the desert air of the society-rooms. A public debate or literary entertainment would break in on the monotony of the session’s work in a very agreeable manner. The Phil-odemics, being the oldest literary society in the institution, will, we suppose, as usual take the lead.
—The Philodemic Literary Association held its 4th reg ular meeting on Tuesday evening, Oct. 21. The criticism was read by A. J. Burger. A de lamation was delivered by P. Hagan; essays were read by G. Clarke and J. Ber-teling. Messrs, Sugg and McEniry were unanimously elected to membership. It was determined by the Society to give a public debate sometime during November.
—The 4th regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary took place Sunday evening, Oct. 20th. Very Rev. Fathers Granger and Corby, Bros. Philip and Leander were present. The questions of the previous meeting were answered byM. J. Burns, “The Object of the Archconfraternity”; W. B. McCarthy, on “The Seven Dolors,”; F. H. Grever, the “Way of the Cross.” Very Rev. President Corby delivered the ten-minutes’ instruction. Masters A. Rheinboldt and O. Farrelly were elected to membership.
—The 19 th regular meeting of the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held on Wednesday, October the 22nd. There were present at this meeting Rev. Father Walsh, C. S. G’., Messrs T. McNamara and M. Foote, C. S. 0., and Bros. Onesimus, Hilarion and Hip-polytus, C. S. C. Master Chas. Brehmer read a sketch of the “Life of St. Anthony of Padua,” and Master E. Hughson an essay on “The Ceremonies of Baptism.” After the essays, Rev. Fr. Walsh delivered the ten-minute instruction. At this meeting Masters W. Fitzpatrick and P. Crowley were elected members of the Sodality.
—The 8th regular meeiing of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association took place Wednesday, Oct. 21st. Aspirited debate, Resolved, “ That Intemperance is a greater evil than War” was first on the programme. The affirmative was defended by W. McCarthy, E. Orrick, C. Tinley and G. Gibbons. The negative was supported by G. Burns, G. O’Neill, E. Otis and G. Orr. The affirmative side won, though the negative argued strongly. Declamations were delivered by E. Orrick, J. O’Neill and F. W. Guthrie, Public readers for this week are: G. Gibbons, A. Mergen-theim, E. Orrick, F. W. Guthrie, Geo. Orr, C. Rietz, F. Quinn.
—The Philodemics, with an energy which does them honor, are already in the field with the programme of an entertainment which promises to be unusually interesting. This Society will give a public debate on the 14th of the coming month. The subject treated will be.- “ Is the reading of works of fiction more beneficial than injurious?” Messrs. A. J. Burger and J. B. Berteling will support the affirmative; the negative will be defended by Messrs. R. H. Russell and W. B. McGorrisk. At the same entertainment an essay will be read by Mr. J. B. McGrath, and an oration delivered by P. J. Hagan. We trust that the example given by the oldest literary Society in the institute will be soon followed by the other associations.
—A certain fop was boasting in company that he had every sense in perfection. “ There is one you are entirely without,” said one of his hearers, “and that is common sense.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre JOaine, October 35, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and - others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and literary Gossip oi the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
To Whom it May Concern.
“A little learning is a dangerous thing.”
We doubt whether any other author, ancient or modern, ever succeeded in crowding more truth or practical wisdom into a small space than Pope compressed into the above verse. A boy armed with a penny-whistle or a bunch of fire-crackers is dangerous to the comfort of the community into which he may be thrown; a voluble individual equipped with the latest publication or the most improved species of lightning-rod may be dangerous to the serenity and happiness of all those with whom he comes in contact; but we are willing to stake our reputation, as an observer, on the assertion that on the face of creation to day there is no form of nuisance more insufferable, no species of bore more dangerous to the peace, comfort and happiness of individuals and communities than the conceited prater, into whose shallow brains a little hodge-podge of what he considers learning has been crammed. Americans as a rule are proud, and have reason to be proud of the fact, that a primary education, is more easily obtained by the masses in this country than in any other; but among the less satisfactory results of the more general diffusion of elementary knowledge must be mentioned a corresponding increase in the number of that dangerous class to which Pope invited attention. Of course we do not wish to be understood as including in this class all those who have-enjoyed but limited opportunities of acquiring an education; we merely refer to the few whom the little learning they have acquired has not so much enlightened as puffed up, and who have not been gifted by nature with sufficient judgment to allow them to perceive the ridiculous figure which their displays of wordy wisdom so frequently make them describe. Which of us could not easily lay his hands—and we, for our part, if circumstances permitted, would willingly lay them heavily enough—on scores of individuals of this class.
There are certain characteristics by which they may
invariably be recognized—a capacity for talk that would make the fortunes of a dozen fish women; a conviction of the superiority of their knowledge to that of the rest of mankind, and an unsparing criticism of everything which does not originate with themselves. As it would be a matter of serious difficulty to mention any good that ever did originate with them, it would be simpler to say that they criticise and condemn everything. As menials, they are incomparably wiser than their employers; as simple clerks, they know more about business than old merchants; with barely skill enough, if they had the energy, to hold the lowest rounds on the professional ladder, they will freely discuss and unceremoniously condemn the manner of acting of those who fill the highest. Had they been consulted when the foundations of the earth were laid, it is probable that they would have had a better and more suitable plan to suggest. But when an individual of this class manages to spell his way once or twice through some publication claiming to be scientific it is only then that all hopes of reclaiming him are to be laid aside. One of his distinguishing traits always was a capacity to pour forth an avalanche of empty, though high-sounding words on every conceivable pretext. But now, however great or trifling the provocation, he fairly bristles with learned words and scientific phrases; he pours forth a flood of murky light on every subject broached; the simple-minded are fairly overwhelmed by the glibness with which he dissertates on oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, ozone and other substances, whose names he has found in his journal, and which he can pronounce but indifferently well. His eccentricities would be amusing if the mirth caused by folly did not invariably conceal a little pain. And besides, a character of this kind may under certain circumstances become an unmitigated nuisance. Incapable of originating anything himself, he may by his wild talk paralyze for a time the usefulness of those who can. We have known an individual of this class who had lived so long on the brains of a worthy colleague, and acquired so much reputation at this colleague’s expense, that many persons besides himself thought him capable of conducting a great undertaking. Of course it was not long till his true value was found out, but in the mean time the success of the enterprise had been seriously endangered. A period of calamity invariably sends to the surface a swarm of these noisy blow-hards. In times of financial depression, they may be heard advocating wild schemes of inflation as the infallible means of bringing back prosperity; in times of pestilence, we are convinced that their favorite pastime , would be to censure the Board of Health, and their favorite occupation to prevent the success of its measures. After a disaster, however unforeseen or impossible to be guarded against, their song is an eternal “ I told you so,” or “ if I had only been there ”; and if they condescend to exert themselves at all, it is only to prevent serious workers from repairing the sad consequences of the mischief already done. Has not our disaster of last April been the means of attracting attention to a few men of this stamp ? We trust not; but should there be any so misguided as to court so unenviable a notoriety, we deem it but fair to let them know in advance what the majority of men think about them.
fi
The man who is honest from policy needs as much watching as a hive of bees just getting ready to swarm.— Josh Bidings. .	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC’.
121
Personal.
—Frank P. Lefiingwell, ’73, is practicing law in Iowa.
—J. Broderick, ’72, is married, and resides at Cairo, III.
—C. Gustine and M. Gustine, ’74, reside at Grand Rapids, Mich.
—Albert Crunkilton, ’75, has moved fromDefiance, Ohio, to Texas.
—E. Gribling, Commercial, ’72, is keeping hotel at Lafayette, Ind.
—Alfred Horne, ’75, has left New York city for Uruguay, South America.
—Miguel A. Otero, ’76, is one of the prominent business men of Otero, Colorado.
—T. Hale (“Bunker Hill,”) Commercial, ’79, is clerk in one of the leading hotels of Kansas.
—Ed. Hull, ’66, formerly of Detroit, is now doing a prosperous wholesale drug business in New York city.
—Al. Hemsteger, ’69, was lately married at Emporia, Kansas, to Miss Peters. We wish him joy and happiness in his new state of life.
—Our devoted friend Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, called to see us last Sunday. No one is more welcome at Notre Dame than this whole-souled gentleman.
—Mr. H. Casserly, of the Madison State Journal, Madison, Wisconsin, spent a few days at Notre Dame in the beginning of the week, visiting some of his old friends, now residents at Notre Dame.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin is preparing to start for Europe, being called there by business of importance. We hope he will make his stay there as short as possible, and that he will return early next spring.
—J. Van Valkenburg Commercial, ’77, has the thanks of his friend Father Maher for a fine stalk of cotton in full bloom. The plant can be seen in the steam-house, where it is receiving the attention of the chief of the horticultural department.
- —The Catholic of Pittsburgh, in an article on “The Diocese ot Erie,” says of Rev. Thos. Carroll, ’62: “The Catholics oi Oil City are in charge of Rev. Thos. Carroll, whose congregation, peihaps, in many respects, can make a better showing than people in more wealthy and larger places. His schools are large, the buildings are in prime condition, and the Benedictine Sisters have charge of the children.”
—We have been sent cards from Little Rock, Arkansas, announcing the marriage of Mr. J. C. Heinz, ’71, to Miss Catharine M. Gleason, an estimable young lady, sister to a former student here and herseli a graduate of the Visitation Academy, Georgetown, D. C. The Little Rock papers reported the happy event as having taken place on the 14th inst., in the Cathedral, Right Rev. Bishop Fitzgerald performing the ceremony. We, and all the friends ot Mr. Heinz at Notre Dame, tender the young couple best wishes for a happy future. Mr. Heinz when at Notre Dame was a model young man, and we do not at all wonder at the words spoken in his praise by the Little Rock city papers. The Daily Arkansas Gazette concludes its account of the event as follows :
“ There has never been a marriage in this city upon whose occasion we moie heartily wished happiness. Mr. Heinz, is an excellent man—a splendid type of manhood and truth; his wife as noble a woman as ever lived.”
The following are brief extracts from a long notice in the Arkansas Democrat of the 15th:
“ It is seldom, indeed, that there is a more brilliant and social event in our City of Roses than that of last night—the matrimonial alliance of Mr. Joseph C. Heinz and Miss Katie M. Gleason. The bride is the eldest daughter oi our well known hotel proprietor, Mr. L. D. Gleason, and was known far and wide as one of the most beautiful and accomplished young ladies in the city. Her husband, Jos. U. Heinz, is well known as a LittleRock “ boy,” his father, Fred. Heinz, deceased, being for years before the war a prominent merchant. Joe is gifted with many noble traits of character, is of even and genial temperament, open, frank and generous. The ceremony took place last night in St. Andrew’s Cathedral, on Centre street, Right Rev. Bishop
Fitzgerald officiating. The edifice was crowded to suffocation with the elite of the city, the friends of the high contracting parties, Protestants as well as Catholics. Shortly after 8 o’clock the organ pealed forth, and the air was laden with the notes of the Wedding March. Up the aisle came the cortege. They separated at the altar, the happy couple dropping on their knees before the Bishop, when a short prayer was uttered, followed by the marriage rites. It was a solemn, beautiful and impressive scene. ’’Twas quickly over, and before one could realize it, they were whirling away to the residence .of Mr. Gleason, adjoining the Union Depot Hotel. Here a banquet, prepared by Rossner & Nagle, in the highest style of the art, was served to a a few relatives and intimate friends.
“There were a number of congratulatory letters, telegrams and messages, one of the most touching of which was from the Convent where Katie was once a student well beloved. It was signed “M. M. Alpbonsus,” and contained the heartfelt words: “May God bless you always.” Another was from Cleveland, Ohio, signed W. J. Gleason and wife: “May sunshine smile upon you every day, and Heaven’s choicest blessings crown your efforts through life.”
■	Local Items.
—Sir!	----
—Dodo.
—I can’t
—Try again.
—I’ll take Orrick.
—I reckon you wont.
—Fine him, “’fesser.”
—Don’t be so “clevah.”
—Call that man to order!
—Paddle your own canoe.
—When will you have that banquet?
—Ike stole that item from the French.
• —The Scholastic Annual will soon be ready.
—The greased boat has gone to the bottom.
—No allusion, please, to “ the melancholy days.”
—“How this world is given to lying!” Falstaff.
—The upper class men affect—well, we wont say what
—The new addition to the navy gives entire satisfaction
—The Infirmarian reported “Dick” for detention last week.	.
—Bro. Basil organized the vocal classes on last Monday evening.
—We studiously avoid saying anything about “ the Irish prince.”
—Pirates are altogether too conspicuous on the St Joseph’s Lake.	'
—Walk straight, throw your shoulders back, and turn your toes out.
—To read well and to declaim well are two entirely different things.	'
—The current number of the Catholic World is particularly interesting.	.	•
—A few of the Sophomores pretend to be good judges of human nature. -
—The Preps, have three canary-birds and one mockingbird in their study-hall.
—Sydney says he can rush that Soph when it comes to raising blonde mustaches.
—The Freshmen of the History Class are doing wonders in the line of original research.
—Football is gaining in favor, and promises soon to be the leading game on the campus.
—The Courtney and Hanlan disappointment was nothing compared to our disappointment.
—The Elocution Class is making decided progress, as was proved by the reading in the Junior Refectory, last Monday. ’
—The Preps, think Chicago will come out first in the “go as you please” next Wednesday between Chicago and St. Louis.
—The Juniors carried off the honors in last week’s com-
122
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■MMO
petition in the Trigonometry Class. The Seniors should wake up just a little.
—Don’t attempt to study and swing your gold watch at the same time, when ascending the college steps; it is not healthy for the watch.
—Bro. Celestine reports’ quite a large Telegraphy Class this session. Better than this, the members all work with a will, and are making rapid progress.
—The Buckeyes and the Hawkeyes played a game of handball Wednesday, which resulted in favor of the Ohio men. Score, twenty-one to twenty-two.
—The first competition in Christian Doctrine for the gold medal was held last Sunday, in the Junior study-hall. E. C. Orrick, of Canton, Miss., received the highest percentage.
—Louis Marautette made the best score in the trial of skill last Wednesday. He broke nine out of ten of the balls. Sydney Smith, seven out of ten and J. Dempsey eight out of ten.
—The Preps, are promised two barrels of apples, and a half a day’s “ rec.” if they all get on the Roll of Honor. Why don’t they do it ?
—Father Maher has given the cotton plant, sent him from Alabama by Mr. Van Valkenburg, to Bro. Leander for his study-hall. We may expect a crop of “ cotton tops ” before long.
—To-morrow, Missa, de Angelis, page 42 of the Eyriale, will be sung. At Vespers, Psalms of the Sunday, page 1 of the Vesperal, except the last, which will be Credidi, page 3. The hymn, Iste Confessor, page 51.
—Professor Lyons expects to have the Annual issued much earlier this year than usual. He promises a much racier volume than ever before. We trust that it will have the large circulation which it deserves.
—The Seniors drag too much in the singing. Some allowance must be made, as “large bodies move slowly,” but coming in like an echo a few seconds behind the rest mars the general effect of the singing.
—Any pupil of the 2d German Class who uses an English expression during recitation hour is fined a certain amount for each word. The funds arising from these fines are to be devoted to purchasing fruit for the class.
—The Ave Maria Library contains a complete set of the Cailwlic Review, of Brooklyn, one of the few in existence. In time to come, such works, of which Father Hudson is a careful collector, will be of inestimable value.
—The annual retreat for the students will take place during the coming week. A retreat well made is an epoch in one’s life, and we trust that the coming one will form an epoch in the lives of all the students of ’79-’8O.
—The Class of Linear Drawing has been organized during the past week. It is taught in the Book-Keeping room; but the Professor will have to contribute a few more articles on “High Art” if it is his purpose to fill this apartment
—We understand the post-office officials don’t like to be asked about letters when outside the office. They say the query “Any letters for me?” has become so frequent, and from so many different persons, that it has become a nuisance.
—A. hotly contested game of football was played on the 19th inst by the Blues and Reds, the Reds coming out victorious by one game. The captains were: Blues, Master Rose; Reds, Master Payro. Master Zeis distinguished himself by his good playing. .
—Tuesday next is the fifth anniversary of the death of Rev. Father Lemonnier, C. S. C., fourth President of Notre Dame. Of him we can truly say, “ Amiable, he won all; intelligent, he charmed all; fervent, he loved all; and dead, he saddened all.” May he rest in peace 1
—All the principal Catholic papers and magazines published in the United States, Canada, Australia, England, and Germany are received by the Lemonnier Library, as also the New York Sun and others of the leading secular periodicals. The reading-room not being ready yet, they are distributed among the students on free days.	I
—Since the opening of the classes in September, more
zeal has been displayed for field-sports by the students of all three departments than at any previous time we can call to mind. The unusually fine weather may have had something to do with this; but whatever the cause may be, we mention the fact as something with which everyone is very well pleased.	'	.
—The long-expected hundredth Junior has arrived at last, and he promises to be a credit to the department. We have had many good students from Elgin in past years, and Master Thompson will, we are confident, be no exception to the rule. It was a little disappointment to our friend Park Perley to find that he had arrived two hours too late to fill the place that he coveted.
—The residents of Lowell are every day becoming more and more convinced that the “ Euglossians ” mean business this year. If they had any advice to give, however, they would respectfully suggest a more sparing use of certain selections as, they have on several occasions rushed from, their homes under the impression that the new College was about to fall a prey to the flames.
—A spelling-match took place last Monday between the members of the 1st Reading Class, Preparatory Department, which was divided for the occasion. Master A. Coghlin, of Toledo, was captain of one side, and Master Herrick, of * Chicago, captain of the other. The contest was long and interesting. “Jaw-breakers ’’were thrown from side to side, and disposed of with lightning rapidity. At the end of an hour, victory was on Toledo’s side.
—Competitions will be held next week in the Preparatory Course. It is quite a satisfaction to both students and Faculty that so few are objected to this year for the Roll of Honor and Class Honors. Not so very many years ago it was considered something to be pleased with when fifty Juniors succeeded in running the gauntlet to the Roll of Honor. Now, we feel a little disappointed when fewer than eighty fail to do the same thing. This is progress to be proud of.
—The Minim Department, like all the others, is receiving new recruits every week. We are confident that before the end of the session they will exceed the number with which they were so very well satisfied last year. The little fellows are, as usual, working well, and enjoying themselves as only boys of their age can. Masters Willie Coolbaugh, Joseph Courtney, Joseph D wenger, F. Leach, and J. Garrity deserve special mention for the proficiency displayed at the late monthly examination.
—It is no unusual occurrence to see the Professor of Astronomy “routed up” out of his downy couch at untimely hours to go gunning for the morning star. It is said that to see him reluctantly wend his way to the Observatory, one would almost think that he is asking himself why Venus cannot make her calls at an hour at which decent Christians can be expected to have the cobwebs out of their eyes. However, we suppose that it is only another item added to the long list of grievances which the gallant but long-suffering Professor has to attribute to the capriciousness of the fair sex.
—The supply of white bricks having given out, work had to be suspended for a few days on the new Music Hall. We are scarcely sorry for this, however, as it gave the masons an opportunity to lay the foundations of the grand new Exhibition Hall. This last building promises to be one of the finest around Notre Dame, and we trust that the work on it will be pushed forward with such rapidity as to allow us to have an exhibition on Washington’s Birthday. Work will be resumed on the Music Hall on Monday next, and we hope to see it ready to be occupied by the first of December.
—One of the many points in which the new College appears so much more convenient than the old is the location of the Students’ Office. Midway between the two study-halls, a boy on his way to the class-room can drop in and have his wants supplied without any possible loss of time. And, besides, it is such a satisfaction to good Father M— But we won’t mention names—to know that after he has persuaded a pleader for extra spending-money to examine the new patent lock from the outside, he can, if he chooses, escort him with very little trouble to the door of the study-hall.
—The losses sustained by the wardrobe of the Thespian


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
123
Association were not by any means so severe as has been V generally supposed. The classic beaver hat, for instance, about which so many anxious inquiries have been made, was saved from the fury of the devouring element. Its alleged owner who, with a disregard for worldly goods which ' _ does him honor, calmly repudiated any excessive interest in its preservation, had almost resigned himself to its loss when it was rescued through the exertions of Mr. W. M. Cox. Adorned with a lofty peacock-feather, it now graces $ the shelves of the incipient Museum of Curiosities.
—Can anyone throw new light on the much debated question—“ What has become of the historic ‘ corduroys ’ '	that formerly ranked among the assets of the County Sur-
■	veyor ? Is it unfortunately too true that they were de-
|	stroyed in the conflagration of last April, or can any hope
still be entertained that they still remain—a thing of joy and beauty—to gladden the heart and delight the eye of the honest granger?” We trust that this question may soon be set at rest forever, and that it may not go down to posterity, to rank with those other never to be settled conundrums : “ Who was the man in the Iron Mask ? ” and “ Who struck Mr. W. Patterson ? ”
*	/—The gentlemen of the Lemonnier Library Association
1	desire to return thanks for the following donations: To
Master Henry Bachmann, of Noblesville, for “Algemeine
।	Bibliothek der gesammten PapulSren Wissenschafter,”
«i	2 vols. To Prof. T. E. Howard, for “ The American Ches-
* terfield”; “Poems by Mrs. Hernans”; Volumes first and x second of the Notre Dame Scholastic; “ Dictionary of all Religions,” Rev. John Bell; “Invitation Heeded,” Stone; ‘‘ The Complete Guide to Polite Correspondence”. To A. Payro, of New Orleans, for “ Songs from the Southern Seas,” J. Boyle O'Reilly. To Master J. Herver, of Indianapolis, “Thompson’s Poetical Works”; “Poetical Works of Greene and Marlow;” “Lessons on Reasoning,” reprinted from the Saturday Magazine. To B. Lawrence, for “Bossuet’s Exposition;” “Perry’s Instructor.” To J. Rutledge, Toledo, “ Goldsmith’s Works.”
v	j/—It made us feel sad, the other day, when visiting the
•	new Lemonnier Library room, to see what a small, very
small remnant of books remained after the fire. We should judge, from the size of the old Library and the appearance of its well-stocked shelves in comparison with what we saw the other day, that nothing worth mentioning had been saved. And yet Prof. Edwards, the ever zealous and gentlemanly librarian, informed us that many of the books now in the library room have been donated since b	the fire. It was a sad sight to witness the fruit of so
'	many years’ labor on his part, and of the generosity of the
friends of the Library, thus destroyed. Many of the fine and rare sets of which the former Library boasted, are now represented only by some straggling volumes; but, as Mr. Wile remarked in our hearing, they will at least be a relic of the terrible day of the fire. Prof. Edwards is zealously at work collecting and arranging, and fitting up the new Library room, and in a week or two will no doubt have everything on the shelves. He is generously assisted by f	donations from the friends of the Library in various parts
of the Union.
/—An item in last week’s Scholastic, regarding those 'who first accompanied Very Rev. Father Sorin to the site of Notre Dame du Lac—“ Our Lady of the Lake”—seems to have created a misunderstanding. It is the general impression that Bro. Vincent was also one of the number, but he remained in charge of the first colony, at St. Peter’s, near
,	Vincennes, for some time, while Father Sorin, with a few
'	others, came to found Notre Dame. Bro. Vincent, however,
was one of the early pioneers of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in this country, and is also fie oldest living member of it, here or elsewhere. He came to this country with Father Sorin, whose senior in age he is by several years, and when leaving France Father Sorin’s father said he committed his son to the care of Bro. Vincent. So the good Brother has a legal claim to the guardianship of his Superioi-General. A few years ago he accompanied Very Rev. Father General on an official visit to Rome, and was introduced to the late Pope Pius IX of glorious memory as the “ Patriarch of the Congregation of the Holy Cross,” whereupon the aged Pontiff clasped him in his arms in a
’ brotherly embrace. Bro. Vincent is to be envied such a
i	I' '
privilege, for that Pope is now, we feel confident, a saint < / in heaven, and does not forget his old friends upon earth. ’
—To give some idea of the size of Notre Dame, we publish this week the length, breadth, and height of the principal buildings on the premises. Main building of the University, 320 feet long, 155 feet wide; Music and Exhibition Hall, 173 feet long, 80 feet wide, and three stories high; Washington Hall, 80 feet long, 40 feet wide, and • two stories and a half high; Infirmary building, 100 feet long, 60 feet wide, three stories high, and a habitable attic; Minims’ Hall, 50 feet long, 30 feet wide, and one and a half story high; University church, 175 feet long seventy wide and 80 feet in height; monastery, 350 feet long, from 20 to 70 feet wide, and three stories high; laundry and domestic apartments, 230 feet long, 35 feet wide, and three stories and a half high; Sisters’ house, 60 feet long, 30 feet wide, and two stories in height; kitchen and clothes-room, 100 feet long, 50 feet wide, and two stories in height; Novitiate, 75 feet long, 50 feet wide, and three stories in height; Scholasticate, 65 feet long, 32 feet wide, and two stories high; steam-house and bathing apartments, 64 feet long, 45 wide, and two stories high; printing-office, 58 feet long, 20 wide, and two stories high; Manual Labor School, 130 feet long, 31 feet wide, and two and a half sotries in height; farm-house, 40 feet front, 30 feet deep, and three stories in height; Presbytery, 83 feet long, 32 wide, and three stories in height; Science Hall, 50 feet long, 35 feet wide and 40 feet high. Besides these buildings, there are three or four score-shops, barns, storehouses, etc., many of them large buildings.
—Mr. Editor:—I saw by your paper last week that there had been pretty much of a joke gotten up at the expense of those who greased their boat for the race on St. Edward’s day, but in my humble opinion the joke should be on the other side. I am not a member of either boat’s crew—in fact, do not belong to the Boat Club at all—and, knowing not a little of nautical matters, I think I may be entitled to an opinion. So, having seen one side of the question, let’s put the helm hard alee, and, having belayed tacks and sheets, see what’s to be seen on the other tack. In the first place, what might be supposed by some who are not conversant with such matters as an undue advantage, was not such in reality, but only showed that the crew of the Minnehaha, or the one that did the greasing, understood something of nautical affairs, and it was not their fault if those on the other side did not know as much. They should have known it, and also that it was their privilege to daub as much grease on their boat’s bottom as they had a mind to. Naturally, a greased boat will glide along with less friction than one that is not greased, but even this may not compensate for other disadvantages, and scarce any two boats are exactly alike in sailing capacity. I understand that the crew of the Minnehaha offered to compromise with the other crew by giving them the advantage of the greased boat; this they need not have done, but it shows that it was not through a consciousness of their weakness that they greased the boat. So there is really no room for jokes at their expense. As I am not personally acquainted with either of the crews, I think there can be no question of disinterestedness in this communication.	Fair Play.
BoH of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
senior department.
R. M. Anderson, H. Ashe, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, A J. Burger, W. Bonlger, J. Brice, M. T. Bums, F. Bell, J. G. Brady, F. W. Bloom, B. J. Claggett, J. Caner, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, J. Casey, B. Casey, Geo. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, T. B. Campbell, R. S. Campbell, D. Donohue, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, Geo. Donnelly, L. H.' Duginger, H. Deeban, L. Demick, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, I. J. Gittings, E. Gooley, F. Humbert, D. Harrington, A Hayden, G. Harris, T. Hinderling, J. Jordan, R. L. Johnson, L P. Kinney, J. Kurz, A M. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, J. Keena, J. R. Kelly, F. Kinsella, T. Kavanagh, P. Larkin, A Lent, J. McGrath, W. B.
124	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
McGorrisk, Ed. McGorrisk, P. McCormick, L. Marantette, E. Murphy, J. McErlain, ML McEniry, J. Marlette, E. Molitor, M. Maloney, P. McGuire, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, J. Malone, W. Megee, J. F. Mug, J. McNamara, L. Mathers, J. Norfleet, J. Noonan, G. Nester, R. C. O’Brien, J. F. O’Connell, H. Pollock, L. N. Proctor, Geo. Pike, R. E. Russell, J. Ryan, F. Reeve, S. T. Spalding, T. W. Simms, T. Summers, J. S. Smith, F. C. Smith, P. F. Shea, Geo. Sugg, R. D. Stewart, W. Schofield, J. Solon, L. Stitzel, S. P. Terry, P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, C. B. VanDusen, F. X. Wall, C. Whalen, W. Wilson, H. Wathen, G. Witwer, A. Zahm, F. Zeien, C. H. Zarley.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Brown, A. J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, T. P. Byrne, A. A. Bodine, Frank Becker, M. J. Burns, G. C. Castanedo, F. L. Carter. A. A. Caren, E. H. Croarkin, Lou Cole, A. M. Coghlin, H. P. Dunn, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, S. T. Dering, F. T. Dever, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. A. Gibbons, Fred Glade, A. C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A. Herrmann, A. F. Hellebusch, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, J. M. Kelly, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, R. L. Le Bourgeois, J. E. Litmer, J. A. Larkin, A. A. Mergentheim, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, A. S. Manning, 8. E. Meredith, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R; E. O’Connor, J. P. O’Neill, E. A- Otis, G. A. Orr, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Quinn, Alex Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, F. J. Rettig, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, W. M. Thompson, C. L. Rose, A. S. Rock, J. P. Reiley, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Schoby, E. G. Sugg, J. A. Seeger, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Simms, C. A. Tinley, C. H. Thiele, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, W. T. Weny, Bertie A. Zekind, Frank Zeis,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
L. Spaulding, D. G. Taylor, G. Woodson, G. P. Van Mourick, C. E. Droste, F. J. Leach, H. A. Kitz, A. Kelly, C. J. Welty, E. N. O’Donnell, W. V. O’Malley, A. Van Mourick, J. S. Courtney, J. 8. Chaves, L. J. Young, C. J. Young, W- J. Coolbaugh, J. 8. Garrity, F. Garrity, E. A. Howard, A. A. Molander, W. J. Wright, F. Mattes, J. R. Bender, A. F. Schmuckle, W. H. Han-avin, J. J. Johnson, J. H. Dwenger, M. Olds.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past
COURSE OP MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
A. J. Burger, Sr., C. J. Brinkman, F. B. Phillips, A. Rietz, Wm Rietz, C. F. Rietz, J. Homan, E. Litmer. J. Herrmann, J. Gibbons, R. Semmes, C. Perry, H. Rose, F. Carter, F. Grever, W. J. McCarthy, A. Keenan, R. Le Bourgeois, A. B. Mergentheim, G. Castanedo, G. Rhodius, F. Rettig, A. Hierb, R. Pomy. J. H. Mor gan, A. Burmeister, J. Weitzel, A. Hellebusch, F. Kleine, J. A. Seeger, P. Maguire, 8. Dering, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. Burns, E. Molitor, G. E. Clarke, T. Campbell, R. Campbell, D. Donahoe, D. Harrington, P. J. Hagan, A. Hayden, J. Jordan, J. P. Kinney, R. O’Brien, T. Simms, F. Wall, J. Rogers, A. J. Burger, Sr. J. S. Ashe, W. Connolly, W. Megee, J. Strawn, B. Pollock, R. Keenan, F. Quinn, C. Hagan, E. Gooley, J. W. Guthrie, E. Fogarty, E. Sugg, J. Murphy, C. Tinley, R. Johnson, J. Keena, F. Bloom, L. Stitzel, B. Claggett, R. O’Connor, F. Johnson, J. Carrer, C. Rose, F. Kinsella, M. Maloney, J. H. Marlett.
The name of A. S. Rock, was inadvertently omitted from the Class Honors, for the Collegiate Course last week.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Joseph Courtney, G. Woodson, W. Hanavin, D. Taylor, J. Courtney, G. Tourtillotte, A. Van Mourick, C. Garrick, L. Spaulding, G. Howard, H. Snee, H. Kitz, A. Kelly, J. Chaves, J. H. Dwenger, J. Johnson, G. Van Mourick.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ABTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
German—C. J. Brinkman, J. Homan, W. Rietz, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. Burns; French—R. Le Bourgeois, G. Castenado, A. Keenan, B. Mergentheim; Law---; Piano—C. F. Rietz, A. Manning, F. Quinn; Flute—A. Hellebusch, F. Grever; Guitar—E. Fogarty; Cornet—J. W. Guthrie; Violin—F. Bloom, B. J. Claggett; Elocution—P. S. Hagan, R.. H. Russell, T. Simms, S. T. Spalding, W. J. McCarthy, C. Hagan, J. B. McGrath, E. Orrick, G. Donnolly, J. Perea, T. Campbell. D. Donohue, C. Tinley, M. T. Bums, T. Conlan, P. Larkin, J. Connolly, J. S. Ashe, F. Brennan, J. F. Mugg, F. Wall, A. Lent, E. Murphy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University,
The Voice from the Tabernacle.
SUGGESTED BY THE INSTRUCTION AT THE RECEPTION OF THE CHILDREN OF MARY, IN THE CHAPEL, OF LORETTO, ON THE FEAST OF THE PURITY OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN.
The King of kings invites me;
He bids me come and share The quiet of His palace, His banquet blest of prayer.
He urges me to enter	.
The pathway of the wise;
To learn His patient meekness, His love of sacrifice.
How tender, how resistless, The pleading of that voice! It thrills the heart’s deep fountains: “Child! child, am I thy choice ? ”
Surprise and awe deny me The power to speak to Him; My eyes, fixed on the altar, With loving tears are dim.
Most wondrous condescension!
And shall I dare decline;
Presume to slight such pleadings;
Resist this call Divine.?	.
' Ah, no, sweet Mother Mary, I am thy child to-day, Made thine, at thine own altar; Feast of thy Purity.
No syren voice of pleasure
Shall win me, or dissuade;
The King of kings invites me, His call shall be obeyed.
—The instruction after Mass for the Children of Mary, on Monday morning, in the Chapel of Loretto, was the most beautiful yet recorded. Subject, the Feast of Sunday— Purity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
—Rare specimens of coral from Florida, crystals of quartz from the Giant’s Causeway, and shells from the Chesapeake Bay, were received from Sister Emerentiana, Holy Cross Academy, Baltimore.
—The prairie at the hill, south of the Chapel of Loretto, will soon be converted into an archery and an artificial lake, fed by the waters of the St. Joseph’s, to be used as a skating-pond in winter amusements.
—The reception of Children of Mary in the Chapel of Loretto took place on the Feast of the Purity of the Blessed Virgin, by Very Rev. Rev. Father General, who made some impressive remarks. Received: Misses Kirchner and Claffey; Aspirants: Misses A. Ewing, C. Lloyd, Cox, Bruser, Callinan, Smith, O’Connor, tJ. Baroux, Keena, Keyes, C. Wathan, S. Wathen, Quinn, Neu, Donnelly, Halloran, Edelen. Neteler, Murphy, M. Semmes, Bischoff, McMahon, McKinnis, McFadden, McGrath.
' —Visitors: Mrs. Clark, Mrs. Randall, Omaha, Neb.; Mr. Partridge, Terre CoupSe, Ind.; Mrs. Armistead, Mr. Brown, New Carlisle, Ind.; Mrs. Gelty, Muskegon, Mich.; Mrs. Bachmann, Noblesville, Ind.; Mrs. Wolf, Mrs. Phillips, Fort Wayne,Ind.; Mrs. Cole, Peru, Ind.; Mrs. Cummings,
THE NQTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	125
Miss Hackett, Watertown, Wis.; Mrs. Butterfield, Kendal-ville, Ind.; Mrs. Butterfield, Kalamazoo, Mich.;'Mrs. Julius and son, Niles, Mich.: Mrs. Emma Herr, Mrs. Eliza Herr, Miss Rollins, Mrs. Byrnes, Miss Frain, South Bend; Mrs. Haas, Tiffin, Ohio; Mr. A. T. Bliss; Mr. D. J. Wile, Mr. Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Mrs. Price, Kewanee, Ill.; Mr. Coe, Mrs. White, Mrs. Scott, Mrs. Garrity, Chicago; Mr. Hart, Rochester, N. Y.; Mrs. Framp, Miss Lamb, Creston, Iowa.
—A French literary society, on the principle of the English literary societies—namely, to afford opportunity of becoming familiar with the best writers—was organized on the 16th inst. Mother Superior presided, assisted by Mother Annunciata. Mother Superior appointed Sister M. Ursula, Directress; Sister M. Eugenie, Assi°tant. Officers elected: President, Miss McGrath; Vice-President Miss Keenan; Secretary, Miss Silverthorn; Treasurer, Miss Rosing. One of the by-laws requires a fine of one cent for every English word spoken in “French conversations.” This society promises to be a source of great interest and of solid improvement. At the close of the first seance, the members paid a visit to Very Rev. Father General, and requested him to appoint a patroness. Saint Clotilde was his choice.
—St. Mary's Chimes, volume the third, number the first, was read at the regular Academic reunion. Very Rev. Father General, the Rev. Chaplain, assistant Chaplain, and a number of invited guests were present. Editors of the Chimes: Misses Herrick, McGrath. Geiser, Claffey and Dallas, of the 2d and 3d Senior Classes. Conten’s: Editorial—“Return from the East”; Poem—“The Chime”; “ Financial Stakes ”; “A Disjunctive Conjunction ”; “ Tne Highest Class ”; “Military Music “Sr. Edward the Confessor”; “ ANew Bishopric”; “TheFirst Seniors’ Guard”; “ The Hot Springs of Iceland ”; “Cheerfulness ”; “ Capricious Congregation ”; “ Cavernous Sounds ”; “Forbidden Fruit”; “Horticulture”; “Visitors’ Entertainment, of the 15th”; “Chemical Derangement”; “’The Conservatory of Music and the Gregorian Society ”; “Reception of Children of Mary”; “ Delicacy, versus Familiarity”; “ Patronal Festivals”; “ Electrical Phenomenon ”: “A New Literary Society”; “Question in Geometrical Proportion”; “Domestic Economy”: “Blow, breeze Blow!” “A Department of Quadrupeds” ; “Preparatory Wright”; “Auricular Evidence”; “Diagonally from the Bay Window”; “ Infirmary Chimes”; "Archery and Skating”; “A Voice From the Tabernacle.”
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
(Graduating Class—Misses C. Silverthorn, T. Killeiea, E. McGrath, A. Woodin, R. Ewing, S. Hambleton, E. Keenan, A. Maloney, R. Neteler.
1st Senior Class—Misses M. Sullivan, A. Ryan, C. Hackett, C. Quinn, C. Danaher, H. Rosing, E. Galen, A. Cortright, A. Farrell, A. Kirchner, A. Gordon, H. Buck, A. Cavenor, C. Ward, A. Ewing.
2d Sr. Class—Misses A. McGrath, A. Dillon, J. Herrick, C. Claffey, A. Jones, A. Joyce, A. Geiser, L. Neu.
3d Sr. Class—Misses M. Roys, C. Bannister, B. Julius, K. Wells, C. De Lapp, A. Dillon, E. Bruser, M. Dallas, M. Fitzgerald, C. Gall, L. Fox, C. Donnelly, L. McMahon, M. English, S. Wathan, O. Williams, M. Bischoff, M. Loeber.
Preparatory Class—Misses M. Piersol, A. Taylor, F. Murphy, T. Zahm, E. O’Connor, L. Lancaster, C. Wail, C. Stitzel, A McKinnis, C. Gavin, J. Baroux, E. Kinzie, M. Hamilton, M. Semmes, H. Hackly, J. Keyes, M. Campbell.
2d Prep. Class—Misses S. Papin, M. Lewis, E. Thompson, F. Reinhardt, C. Lemontey.
3d Prep. Class—Misses E. Moxon, C. Edelen.
Junior Prep. Class—Misses M. Duncan, B. Legnard, C. Gibbons, L. English, C. Lancaster, J. Barlow, M. Chirhart.
1st Jr. Class—Misses M. Fisk, E. Hale, E. Considine, E. Papin.
2d Jr. Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, V. Orr, M. Wilkins.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses C. Silverthorn, H. Rosing, A. McGrath.
2d Class—Misses M. Dallas, I. Semmes, A. Geiser, A. Maloney, M. O’Neill, A. Cavenor, A. Ewing, L. Neu, A. Cortright.
2d Div.—Misses M. Campbell, J. Butts, M. Cox, C. Wathan, S. Wathan.
3d Class—Misses M. Feehan, 100; S. Semmes, L. Populorum A. Ryan, O. Williams, S. Papin, L. Fox, L. French, N. Kinzie, K.’ Lancaster.
2d Div.—Misses J. Keyes, A. Clarke, A Jones, M. English, C. De Lapp, E. Populorum, E. Hackett. Promoted to this Ciass_ Misses J. Herrick, S. Winston, L. Lancaster.
4th Class—Misses K. Lloyd, K. Wells, L. Hammond, A Taylor, G. Taylor, M. Paquette, E. Papin, M. Simms, C. Gavin, A Leyden, E. Dallas, J. Barlow.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses C. Gall, M. Usselman, D. Horner, M. Salomon, F. Reinhardt, B. Julius.
2d Class—Misses C. Claffey, C. Hackett, M. Bischoff, L. McMahon, M. Loeber, C. Van Namee.
3d Class—Misses S. Smith, M. Filzgerald, A. Joyce, C. Ward, M. Hamilton, M. Casey, J. Butts. I. Moil, M. Zimmerman.
4th Class—Misses C. Quinn, E. Bruser, A. Diliou, C. Stitzel, M. Piersol, A. Hoadley, C. Gibbons, M. I-eu.linger, C. Ginz, M. Duncan, M. Chirhart, M. Carter, M. Hutchinson, S. Semmes, E. Considine.	’
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses C. Silverthorne, T. Killeiea, E. McGrath, A. Woodin, R. Ewing, R. Neteler, A. Cavenor, M. Sullivan, E. Gah-n, C. Ward, C. Hackett, A. Ryan, A. Cortright-, H. Ros'ng. C. Quinn, A. Farrell, C. D meher, A. Gordon, A. Hoadley, I. S mms, A. McGrath, C Lloyd. A. Dillon, A. Joyce, L. Otto, J. Mitchell. S. Winston, A. Geiser, 8. Smith, M. O’Neill, O. Williams, M. Fitzgerald, C. Donnelly, C. Bannister, M. Dallas, M. Roys, M. Bischoff, E Bruser, L. McMahon, M. Engl'sh. C. Wathan, S. Wai han, T.Zahm, M. Piersol, M. Campbel), J. Keyes, F. Murphv, L. Lancaster, M. Simms. I. Hatch. C. Sti’zel, A. Tavlor, E. Gillen, A. Dessaint, C. Wall, A. McKinnis. C. Gavin, J. Baroux, E. Wright. E Thompson, M. Price, L. Hammond, D. Horner, S. Purdy, M. Solomon, F. Reindhardt. A. Rasche, M. Mitchell, M. Halloran, E. Moxm. C. Edelen, J. Tollman, par xcellence. Misses E. Keenan, 8. Hambleton, H. Buck. A. Ewing, A. Kirchner, L. Neu, J. Herrick, M. Usselman. A. Jones, M Laber, C. De Laop, C. Gall, B. Julius, K. Wells, E. CaHinan, E. O’Connor, E. Hackley, M. Hamilton, E. Kinzie, A. Keena, M. Cox, M. McFadden, E. Reynolds, E. Atwood. -
JUNIOR DEPARTMEST.
Misses C. Claffey, M. Feehan A. Dillon, C. Campbell. A Orr, L. Populorum, C. Van Namee, C. Lemontey, S. Semmes, M. Casey, A. Leyden, M. Fishburne, M. Lewis, A. Watson, E. Joseph, I. Moll, G. Taylor, R. McCloskey, M. Carter. C. Gibbons, C. Lancaster, M. Flemming, M. Reuth’nger, M. Chirhart, J. Barlow, B. Legnard, E. Populorum, L. English, C. Ginz, M. Paquette, E. Hale, M. Hutcheson, C. Harrison, E. Considine, B. de C. Garrity, M. Fitzgerald, M. Wilkins, L. Robinson. V. Orr, M. Baroux, par excellence. Misses L. Fox, J. Butts, L. French, E. Hackett, S. Papin, M. Me N. Garrity, J. Wells, E. Dallas, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, M. Duncan, A. Clarke M. Zimmerman, M. Fisk, E. Papin, I. Hackett, C. Estridge.
Attorneys at Law.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72)
Attomej s at Law, No. 225 Bra~y St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B- CLIEFORD (of ’62). Attorney a
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 20 Broadway tcoi. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
JOTTTN IT. McHUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, No'ary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
TTriLIurA.NI J. CL ARKE (of ’74), Attorney at Law.
VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St, Columbus, O.
JANIES A. O’REILLY-of ’69—Attorney at Law, t27 Court St., Readme, Pa. Collecuons promptly attended to.
DjAjNIEIu B. LTTTJB-VFtO, Jr ; (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Special attention givim to Collec ions. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich.
126
THE KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
INMAN LINE.
Three Great Cities of the West
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YOBK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4(307 CITY OF CHESTER. 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS. 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080 CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.	:	'
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, octi-rf	La Porte, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 <5 p. m.
H 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arr ves at Toledo, 5 25 p.m;
Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13 16o.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo4am.
9 13 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 240 a.m: Cleve’and, 705 a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
A 50 and 4= p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.

BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
3 4=3 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4= 50 p.m, Special Chicago Expres-. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a m, Ac ommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago. 1130 a.m.	-
2" 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt, South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., < =hic«go.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
RAILROAD.
Depots, foot of Lake St, Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St, and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St and at the depots.
' 't ,	Leave. Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger.........*7:25 a.m.	* 7:30 p.m
Nebraska and Kansas Express.........* 9:30 a.m.	* 4:05 p.m
Rockford and Freeport Express.......*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Dubuqne and Sioux City Express......*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Pacific Fast Express................*10:30 a.m. * 3:40 p.m
Kansas and Colorado Express.........*10:30 a.m. * 3:40 p.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation........* 8:25 a.m. * 1:35 p.m Aurora Passenger ....................*3:15p.m. *7:55a.m
Mendota and Ottawa Express..........* 4:35 p.m. *10:40 a.m
Aurora Passenger....................*5:30 p.m. * 8:55 a.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation........* 6:15 p.m. * 7:15 a.m Freeport and Dubuque Express........*9:30 pm.* 6:35 a.m Pacific Night Express for Omaha.....+ 9:05 p.m. {6:55 a.m Texas Fast Express...................* 9:05 p.m. j 6:55 a.m
Kansas City and St Joe Express......+9:05 p.m. j 6:55 a.m
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleeping Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.
•Sundays excepted. fSaturday excepted. {Monday excepted.
For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations, apply to	2 .
C.W. Smith,	. James R. Wood,
Traffic Manager,	Gen. Pass. Agent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Care, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Care and Pullman Palace Sleeping Care, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra-charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in .	the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS
■ and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL
POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS. "
'	TLe Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and. South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Chablton,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.
W. C. Van Hobne,	J. C. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Manager.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	127
J*. MISH
ZELeeps tlie Best T^ine of .
CIGARS, TOBACCO and SMOKERS’ ARTICLES In the City. '
AN ELEGANT LINE OF COSTUMES ALWAYS ON HAND.
ODD FELLOWS’ BLOCK,
SoutlL Bend, Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Noy. IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Abbive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00a.m. 10.12 « 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 par. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 A.M. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 ‘ 12.25 a.m. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.53 “	■•••• •••’
GOING EAST,				
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,		9.10 Par. 2.46 a.m. 655 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30 a m 2.33 “ 4.05 “		
Forest,					
Crestline,	Arrive					
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4 00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p M. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 1115 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 Aai. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 AM. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 P.M 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that rnns the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
.	. P. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
. Time Table, in Effect JUNE 8,1879.
Going	North.	STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 am. 12 55 “ 12.28 « 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9.55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3 20 p.m. 2.30 “ 2 08 “ 1.44 “ 1.07 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 913 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Abbive	Leave -	- Michigan City, - -- - - - La Porte, - - - -	- - Stiillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - - -	- - Plymouth, - - -- - - - Rochester, - - - -	- - - Denver, - - - - - -	- Peru, - - - - -	- Bunker Hill, - - -- - Kokomo Junction, - - -	- - - Tipton, - - -- - - Noblesville, - - - -	- Indianapolis, - - -- - - Cincinnati, - - - - -	- Louisville, - - -- - - Saint Louis, - - •	9.35 a.m. 10.25 “ 10.45 « 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12.40 p.m. 1.17 “ 2.00 “ 2.22 •» 3.00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 555 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m.	8.05 pan 8.55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 12.12 aan 12.40 “ 1.01 « 1.35 “ 2.16 “ 3.02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 pan
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Pern 7.45 a.m. - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 11.00 a.m. “	“ 6.40 p.m. - -	“	“	9.50 p.m.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Pern 3.50 p. m. “	“	11.10 “	- - -	“	“ 2.55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
JgFBirths §1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance*
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l Manger, Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
GREAT SOUTHERN RAILWAY LINZ.
C. B. ATMOBE, General Passenger and Ticket Agent.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTES DAME, INDIANA.
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sobin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatie Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on'application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.
B