lotre Dame Scholastic.
I>isco quasi semper vlctruais; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume IX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA^ JUNE 24, 1876.
Number 43.
Commencement Ode.
Those beauteous college years,
Gliding so swift away, Bearing upon their silver wings
Each new Commencement-Day!
Where have ye gone, O golden years?
Out on the sunlit deep!
Will ye return in after years
And sacred vigils keep ?
Vigils o’er friends we love,
Who have trod our classic halls ;
Those who have gone, and they who go
From out our college walls.
To-day, centennial year,
Another star has set,
Old friends will clasp our hands once more
And leave us with regret
Farewell, centennial class!
To-day an era new,
A pathway strewn with thorns and crowns
Is opening on your view.
Oh, sacred after years 1
We have other trusts for you,
Will ye be faithful still?
Will ye never prove untrue ?
We have sacred words to send
To brothers far away,
Pledges of love and trust and faith
This bright Commencement-Day.
O years of the golden past,
Swift years that have gone before, Where are the crowns you promised us
For the cross we bravely bore ?
Dear faithful years of the past,
We were taught by the world’s fierce strife
That the years we spent in our college home
Were the happiest in our life.
Commencement Week.
WEDNESDAY MORNING.
The exercises began on Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. The audience was large and appreciative, a large number of old students being in attendance. After a well-rendered overture by the Orchestra, Mr. Thomas F. Gallagher, of Lynn, Massachusetts, delivered a finely-written valedictory. We are very sorry that we could not get an abstract of the young gentleman’s effort, as everybody awards him high praise.
The oration of Mr. William J. Onahan, of Chicago, was excellent. . He spoke as follows:
Very Reverend and Reverend Fathers,
Ladies and Gentlemen:
When I yielded to the request and invitation, with which I was honored by the esteemed President of Notre Dame University, to deliver a brief address on the occasion of the Annual Commencement, it was not without an
effort on my part to persuade him that his heart or his judgment were at fault in the selection. Assuredly I would feel proud and honored, were I able to justify the wisdom and discreetness of his choice by presenting to you an address that would be worthy of the occasion, and interesting to the large and distinguished audience assembled around me. I would indeed be deterred from attempting so responsible a task were I not persuaded in advance that my poor effort would be received with the most kindly and generous indulgence.
I am, moreover, encouraged by the reflection that however imperfectly I may be qualified to assume the roll and office of teacher or mentor in the halls of this University, I yet may be enabled to draw from the lessons acquired in the broader school of the world and of history, some reflections which may serve to engage and interest my audience. An ancient philosopher remarked, and the observation has since become trite, that education does not end with the termination of a school or college career.
The great world which now opens its portals to the many young, eager-bounding hearts and ambitious intellects who to-day surround me, is only a larger and broader school than the one whose hospitable roof and generous tutelage they are now about to depart from. I need hardly say that in this school of the world the tasks will often be found far more irksome than those allotted in these academic halls, the task-masters far less indulgent, and the applause and rewards for their efforts vastly less generous and certain than those hitherto enjoyed in these benignant surroundings.
It is not my purpose, however, to philosophize on the problem of life, nor on the duties and responsibilities which now devolve upon those who are about to enter into competition for the prize or goal which duty or ambition sets before those who now vault into the arena of the world. I have mapped out for myself a les scomprehensive but perhaps more congenial task.
* The influence and the teaching of a Catholic college must of necessity impress itself on the character and future of its students and graduates. In the class-room and the lecture-hall they have acquired a knowledge of the arts and sciences from professors able and accomplished: in the sacred aisles of yonder church they have been imbued with the more valuable lessons of faith and of duty.
I do not fear to be misunderstood. I speak as a Catholic—albeit an unworthy one—to Catholics. I do not seek to awaken or wound any just religious sensibilities. I would be unworthy to occupy the honorable position in which I now stand before you, were I to do so; but facts should not be ignored, nor is it wise to be silent when duty demands of us to speak out. There is everywhere a jealously and widespread distrust of the power and influence of the Catholic Church. We see her oppressed and trampled upon in Germany and in Poland, her priests and religious exiled or imprisoned, her churches closed or violated, and the sacred offices and functions prohibited. In Italy, once the proud centre of faith and unity, the Church is curbed and fettered, her possessions—consecrated by ten centuries of almost undisturbed tenure—confiscated, and her venerable Pontiff a'virtual prisoner in that capital of which it may be truly said every stone in its churches and palaces belongs of right not to Italy but to the Catholic world, which has contributed of its blood and treasure to their erection and preservation. Switzerland imitates its Russian example, and even Catholic
674
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
France, under the influence of infidel zealots, seeks to curb and restrain the just influence of the Catholic Church. England, too, has lately been filled with clamorous outcries on the subject. Nor has our own land wholly escaped the infection. It becomes a serious question, therefore, for Catholics—Why this outcry against us? Is there, then, a natural incompatibility between the Catholic Church and the wellbeing of the State? Is there in the relations which must necessarily exist betwixt the one and the other a peril or a danger for which the Catholic Church or its teachings is responsible ?
This is the inquiry which I shall now briefly attempt to answer. I do not purpose, it would be presumption in me to attempt, to enter into the domain of theology and discuss faith and dogma. I shall deal with the question of
The Catholic and the Citizen, or, if you please, the Catholic citizen and the State purely in their secular relations. .
John Stuart Mill, in his essay on representative government, says that “ Community of language and community of religion is of importance as contributing to an enduring nationality.” Another distinguished writer, whose thoughts and opinions on American institutions have been in many respects remarkable for their prescience and sagacity—De Tocqueville—remarks, referring to the future of this country:
“ The time will come when 150 millions of men will be living in North America, equal in condition, the progeny of one race, owing their origin to the same cause, and preserving the same civilization, the same language, the same religion, the same habits, the same manners, and imbued with the same opinions propagated under the same forms.”
Time and the logic of events have given new force and significance to this prophecy. The jealousy and distrust of the power and influence of the Church is not a new or latter day suspicion. It is as old as Christianity itself, and found a notable example in the public teaching of our Divine Saviour; and in every succeeding age, in almost every c mntry, there have arisen similar fears, conflicts and divergences. That these fears of the power and ecclesiastical authority of the Church, whether entertained in good faith, or arising from interested motives, are ill-founded and have no just basis, I think can be clearly shown.
The Catholic Church inculcates the duty and obligation upon all her children of unreserved loyalty and fealty to the State and the constituted authorities thereof, with only this qualification that they “shall render to Ctesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” The Church does indeed enforce the obligation of primary obedience to a law which is of necessity higher and more authoritative than any which may be enacted or enforced by any merely human authority or government, but common sense and Christian teaching alike combine to convince and satisfy us that between the legitimate political domain of the sovereign or the State and the ecclesiastical or spiritual authority of the Church, there is not and in the nature of things cannot be any just conflict. Unhappily, these antagonisms have occurred in all ages and probably will not cease until the end of time.
Among the legacies and promises left to the Church by her Divine Founder was the assurance that her existence would be an unceasing conflict, and the final triumph would come only at the end. I have said that we owe our first and highest allegiance to God and His laws. We owe a subsidiary obedience, to the State. God gave us existence, a soul, faculties, and a destiny. The State, which is our own creation, protects us in our material interests and property, and is the agency by which we seek to promote and protect our temporal wants and aspirations. It can exact allegiance from us only in affairs of purely temporal concerns. It is entitled to demand of us obedience to its laws and authority, but when it enters the sanctified domain which is consecrated to God, when it attempts to regulate and restrain the Christian in the free exercise of those duties which God and nature impose as primary obligations, it becomes in fact an usurper and trespasser. The Church in her theology, by the mouth and pen of her great doctors, has very clearly defined the doctrine of the obedience due from the subject or citizen to the sovereign and State, and no Protestant writer or authority has ventured to advocate doctrines and principles so broad and liberal in the interest of human freedom.
The theory now so widely prevalent and enforced of the unqualified supremacy of the State, makes of the latter an earthly Deity and requires of us to bow down and worship it. It demands an acceptance for itself of that dogma which it so scoffs at when claimed by the Church, namely, Infallibility !
History, that philosophy which teaches by example, is a witness to the glory ana development which is compatible with the highest Catholic civilization.
In what regard has this not been demonstrated ? It is attested in the genius and the piety which has covered Europe with monuments of architectural grandeur that are now the marvel and wonder of the traveller; and in the arts by which Catholic talent has adorned and embellished the cathedrals and palaces of the Continent, and which have consecrated to religion the loftiest inspirations of the human intellect.
Has the Church been a curb to material progress or to national renown ? What States have attained the glory or surpassed in opulence France and Spain when their destinies were controlled and their laws administered by a Cardinal Richelieu and Ximenes? Is it commercial greatness is in question ? Then let the enterprise and maritime renown of the Catholic republics of the Adriatic and of Holland tell the story! In what regard have they been successfully rivalled ? Their decay has been due to natural, not to religious causes. Or if the latter was in question it will be' found that they have deteriorated because of their denial ’or departure from well-known Catholic principles. Empires have risen and fallen, have reached the zenith of human power and greatness even before the advent of Christianity, and the now deserted and lonely ruins of Thebes and Palmyra, and others which abound ou the borders of the Mediterranean, admonish us that wealth and opulence is peculiar to no condition of modern civilization ; it can be attained under the auspices of barbaric regime, as well as under the splendor and glare of modern enlightenment. History and its lessons and teachings for the past three centuries has been for the most part presented to us in a false guise and perverted by reckless or foolish pens so as to bring the Church into dishonor and disrepute. De Maistre says “history has been an unvarying conspiracy against truth,” but, despite the adverse combination of false pens, truth in the long run will enevitably prevail. It has indeed often seemed, as Macaulay suggested, that the power of the Church’s long dominion approached a close, but ever and anon that supernatural agency, which has never failed her, appeared to intervene in her behalf and safely carry her through every peril; time and again that power and supremacy has seemed to be beyoud human salvation and rescue, but it has as often triumphed over all adverse influences. Do I need to appeal to the American writers who have sometimes reluctantly spoken her eulogies? to Bancroft, to Prescott, to Parkman, and a long chain of others whose prejudices have given way to their sense of justice. Let us recall, too,-that while many sectarian writers have sought to prove that the Popes attempted to destroy civil monarchy by confiscating it to their profit, it is a great Protestant historian, Muller, who says that “The Father of the Faithful was during the barbarous ages a tutor and a guide sent by God to the European Nations.”
Do you need a proof and striking example of the character and influence of Protestantism as opposed to Catholicity? Then mark the successive religious revolutions which desolated Germany after the subversion of Catholicity : maxims and theories des'ructive of all society were propagated; upon the field of battle and upon the scaffold blood flowed in torrents; towns and cities were desolated or destroyed. Life was without safety and property without security. The infidel disorders and revolution of a later century nearly brought down the whole European superstructure and civilization in total wreck. And the young Catholic intellect of this and of other lands should never forget the debt of gratitude due to the first of Frenchmen and the grandest of modern Catholic writers when he challenged modern infidelity to the combat in a memorable speech in the French house of Peers, when he proudly said: “ We are the sons of the Crusaders, and ice will never draw back before the sons of Voltaire." But if you want a less defiant utterance and exclamation, then I tell you iu the language of Tertullian and the gentle Fenelon: “You
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
675
have nothing to fear from us, but we do not fear you.” It is alleged that Catholic teaching favors despotism, and would maintain the doctrine of the Divine right of kings! Even the most casual student and writer needs only to consult the pages of Suarez, of Bellarmine, and of the Angelic Doctor, Thomas Aquinas, in refutation of this assertion. Never was charge more ill-founded. I repeat again here, the greatest doctors and most honored theologians have always spoken and written on the side of the largest and widest popular liberty.
A. great French Bishop has lately answered in a characteristically clever book the charge that the Church is inimical to progress, to civilization and to human dignity; let me ask what existing institution has done for civilization what the Church has accomplished? What other human institution or sect has labored without ceasing for the establishment and maintenance of hospitals for the infirm, of asylums for the insane and afflicted, of refuges for the Magdalene and the outcast, and of homes for the poor and the orphan? Tell me the Church or denomination that makes similar sacrifices to maintain and support the widest and most generous system of schools, and that presents today so liberal and munificent a scheme of higher training in colleges and institutions?
But perhaps I am departing from my theme, which is to prove that the true greatness as well as the surest hope for America is in the spread and acceptance of Catholic truth, and that no necessary antagonism exists between the one and the other. America is Catholic in her earliest traditions, as she should still be in her faith. Why should we not hold our head serect, we the inheritors of the faith of a Columbus, of De Soto, of Calvert and of Champlain ? Are we not the spiritual children of a Marquette, a Breboeuf, a Carroll? and are we not animated by this same patriotic spirit and love of country which moved in the breasts and stirred the hearts of the Sullivans, the Fitzgeralds, and the Montgomerys, the Moylans, and the Barrys, of Revolutionary fame and memory ?
There is on all the wide earth no more broad and generous field for the spread and development of Catholic truth than exists in. this great Republic, nor is there any people more calculated to adorn and distinguish the annals of that Church. One of the great missionaries with whom America is favored, a member of the distinguished Order of Jesuits,-in a notable address at a recent gathering in Philadelphia said that “ the surest guarantee for the peace, the purity, and prosperity of American institutions, of good Government and of free Government, lay in the acceptance of Catholic truth.” It was a Pagan philosopher who said that “ the destruction of piety towards the gods would be the destruction also of good faith, of human society, and of the most excellent of virtues—justice”—and a modern French writer observes: “ People talk of the danger of theocracy: but in what warlike nation did a priest ever lead men into slavery?” There is no cry raised against the Church that does not arise either from false or interested motives. She alone, when all else in human society was in confusion, preserved to us the semblance and the fact of order, in law and in government When dynasties gave way and empires and kingdoms were wrecked and deposed, stood proudly erect amidst the general downfall—as she will always stand unmoved and undismayed.
Great writers have written magnificent perorations on the marvellous fertility of her resources and the apparent indestructibility of her power. In the presence of the distinguished professors and the young gentlemen to whom these studies are so familiar, I need not attempt to repeat, still less echo in my own poor language, their majestic utterances. But this much I may venture to say that in the general wreck and upheaval of empires in Europe, which the complications of the times shows us to be inevitable, there is given to us in this favored land a great and a grand destiny. Exempt from foreign complications, we r.n now pursue unobstructed the great mission for which America was destined.
And for the Church, no greater arena exists the wide world over. Let me not be misunderstood or misinterpreted. The Missionaries of the Church seek only to extend her spiritual dominion by those peaceful agencies and pursuasive utterances, which have invariably charac
terized her teachings, and in no land more conspicuously than in this. Now, as ever before, her priests and religious have in their hearts that beautiful motto which is inscribed on Ihe banners of all her devoted children and servants: “Ad majorem Dei gloriam? It is this spirit and this holy zeal which has won and redeemed by the labor of these devoted religious and their predecessors in the Faith, this once wild tract, until now it blossoms with the gifts and fruits of the earth, and greater boon still abounds in those institutions of charity, of learning and religion which are a gift and a blessing to humanity. Do you ask to know what is the ambition of the Church and these her too often maligned servants ? It is to dot the land with institutions of Christian grace and benevolence similar to those which surround us here on every side! To wean men from vice to the practice of the exalted virtues—those virtues which adorn and beautify the human character, and in the acceptance and practise of which is the highest hope and surest security for the future of these States.
It is for you, gentlemen, who to day go forth from these hallowed precincts to your various homes in different States to carry with you into all the chequered pursuits of that active career which is before you the constant lessons of the teaching which I am sure you have wisely learned in the halls of your Alma Mater. I am but a poor and unworthy monitor, but I do assure you in the struggles which are inevitably before you, that no experience which you may acquire will stand you in so great stead as those which have been inculcated by your reverned Professors and teachers at Notre Dame. Be true to them, and in their possession you will have an enduring and unfailing joy.
One word more and I shall close. In this centenary year, America claims much and expects great things of her sons, and especially from those who bring to her ranks, in whatever sphere, the service of young hearts and uncontaminated intellects. We should seek to restore the purity and the virtue which these centennial days recall. Be it yours the duty and the glory to give to this land your loyal and most devoted services, and by bringing about that much-needed restoration of purity in public life, thereby recall and renew the era of the better days of this Republic.
The oration over, the premimns were distributed, classprizes and honors were awarded, and the degrees conferred. A few farewell words were then spoken by Bishop D wenger after which the exercises closed.
Degrees, Honors, etc.
At the Annual Commencement held June 21st, 1876 the Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on William J. Onahan, of Chicago, Illinois, and on Paul Broder, of Beloit, Wisconsin.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, Notre Dame, Indiana; Eber B. Gambee, Ukiak City, California; William J. Clarke. Columbus, Ohio; Robert W.Staley, Sedalia, Mo.; James O’Brien, Caledonia, Minnesota.
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on Thomas A. Dailey, South Bend, Indiana, and on Daniel E. Maloney, Elgin, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on Thomas E. Johnson, Sedalia, Missouri; Nicholas Stoffel, Notre Dame. Indiana; Thomas F. Gallagher, Lynn, Massachusetts; James Caren, Columbus, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on John J. Gillen, Lawrence, Massachusetts ; Henry L. Dehner, Cascade,Iowa; Florian Devoto,Notre Dame, Indiana; Edward S. Monahan, Louisville, Kentucky; Everett Graves, San Antonio, Texas; Benjamin L.Euans, Watseka,Illinois.
Medical Certificates were awarded to Rudolph J. Maas, Negaunee, Michigan; Frank Smiley, Kewanee, Hl.; Virgil McKinnon, Chicago, Illinois; Charles Atchison, Nashville, Tennessee.
- Commercial Diplomas were awarded to Francis P. Brady, Versailles, Illinois; Anthonv Barger, Reading, Pennsylvania; Francis X. Claffey, Bertrand, Michigan; Isaac Dryfoos, Fremont, Ohio; Patrick J. Flanigan, Nashville, Tennessee; HenryD. Faxon, Chicago, Illinois; John T. Foley, Nashville, Tennessee; Frank Keller, Tiffin, Ohio;
1
676	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
John J. Kreutzer, Peru, Indiana; Peter F. McCullough, Pin Oak, Iowa; John J. McEniiy, Osborn,Illinois; Joseph Neidhart, Marquette Michigan; J. E. Obert, Reading, Pennsylvania; Henry E. O’Brien, Kewanee, Illinois; Charles L. Saylor, Antwerp, Ohio; Willard D. Smith, Adrian, Michigan; Louis J. Busch, Chicago, Illinois; J. H. Retz, Serena, Illinois.
CLASS PRIZE MEDALS.
Classical Course.
Senior Class—The Quan Gold Medal was awarded to Thomas F. Gallagher, Lynn, Massachusetts.
Junior Class—Medal awarded to John H. Cooney, Washington, D. C.
Sophomore Class—Medal awarded to John G. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.	’
Freshman Class—Medal awarded to Ambrose Hertzog, Nachitcches, Louisiana.
Scientific Course.
Junior Class—Medal awarded to James A. Brown, Brownsville, Texas.
Sophomore Class—Medal awarded to William J. Ball, Chicago, Ill.
Freshman Class—Medal awarded to George McNulty, Alton, Illinois.
Commercial Course.
Medal awarded to John T. Foley, Nashville, Tennessee.
Gold Medal for Elocution,
(The gift of Rev. T. O’Sullivan, Laporte, Indiana,) awarded to August K. Schmidt, Chicago, Illinois.
■	Prize in Telegraphy,
(A Silver-plated Sounder—the gift of George Bliss, Esq.,) awarded to James D. McIntyre, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
AWARDING OF HONORS.
Senior Department.
First Honors awarded to J. A. Brown, V. Baca, P. J. Cooney, H. Dehner, E. S. Monahan, H. Maguire, L. Evers, P. W. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, R. Maas, R. H. McGrath, Carl Otto, R. White, W. D. Smith.
Second Honors awarded to F. X. Claffey, D. Byrnes, F. P. Brady, J. Dempsey, A. Hertzog, P. Kennedy, P. Mc-Cawley, J. J. McEniry, P. F. McCullough, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, H. E. O’Brien, C. L. Saylor, F. H. Schlink, T. Carroll, T. H. Quinn, J. W. Connolly, G. F. McNulty, E. P. Atfield, J. G. Ewing.
Junior Department. '
First Honors awarded to F. Rosa, A. Burger, J. T. Foley, S. Goldsberry, F. Hoffman, C. Faxon, G. Sugg.
Second Honors awarded to T. J. Byrnes, E. C. Davenport, J. English, F. Flanigan, C. C. Gustine, W. J. Davis, M. E. Halley, J. P. Kinney, M. Kauffman, R. P. Mayer, D. P. Nelson, C. Orsinger, J. P. Reynolds, S. D. Ryan, P. Schnurrer, P. M. Tamble, N. VanNamee, W. Hake, H. D. Faxon, A. Bergck, J. French, J. Knight.
Minim Department.
First Honors awarded to Lee Frazee, A. Bushey, F. McGrath, F. Campau, O. Lindberg, F. Carlin, W. Coolbaugh.
Second Honors awarded to J. O. Stanton, G. Lowrey, P. P. Nelson, Presly Heron, M. Gustine, W. Cash, J. Davis, P. Healy, W. McDevitt, H. McDonald, C. Bushey.
PREMIUMS.
Senior Department.
Atfield, E.—Third Accessit in Telegraphy.
Bearss, F.—Second Accessit in First Reading.
Brady, F. P.—First Accessit in Letter-Writing; First Accessit in First Grammar; Fourth Accessit in First Arithmetic; Third Accessit in Fourth Algebra; Third Accessit in Theory; Second Accessit in Execution in First Book-keeping; First Premium for Excellence in Penmanship.
Byrne, D. J.—Third Accessit in Letter-Writing; Third Accessit in First Grammar; First Premium in Third German.
Ball, W. T.—First Premium in Fifth Latin; First Accessit on Piano ; First Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Brown, J. A.—First Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Breen, W. P—Second Accessit on Piano.
Byrne, W.—First Premium on Violin.
Belford, F.—Accessit in First Grammar.
Coleman, J. D.—First Premium in Second Arithmetic; Fourth Accessit in Theory in Second in Book keeping; Second Accessit in Fourth German.	'
Connolly, J.—First Premium in Sixth Latin.
Campbel], J.—Second Accessit in Fifth Greek; First Premium on Piano; Second Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Cassidy, H.—First Premium in Sixth Greek, Second Division.
- Chapoton, W.—Second Accessit in Fourth Algebra.
Cooney, P.—Second Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Cross, M.—Fifth Accessit-, ex aequo, in Penmanship.
Claffey, F. X.—Second Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Cooney, J. H.—First Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution'.
Dechant, W.—Second Accessit in Fifth Latin.
Dehner, H.—First Premium in Christian Doctrine; First Accessit in Dogma.
Devoto, F.—First Accessit in Christian Doctrine; Third Accessit in Dogma.
Dickerson, W. P.—Third Accessit in Penmanship.
Evers, L.—First Accessit in Sixth Greek, First Division.
Ewing, J.—Second Accessit in Public Reading; Third Accessit in Christian Doctrine; First Premium in Dogma.
-Fishburne, E.—First Premium in First Reading; First Premium in First Orthography.
Fishburne, G.—Fourth Accessit in Letter-Writing; Fourth Accessit in First Grammar; Fifth Accessit in First Arithmetic; Third Accessit in First Geography; Third Accessit in First History; First Accessit in Execution in Second Book-keeping.
Flanigan, P.—Fiist Premium in First Arithmetic; First Premium in Third Algebra; Fourth Accessit in Theory; First Accessit, Practice, in First Book-keeping; Fourth Accessit in Penmanship.
Fogarty, W.—Fifth Accessit, Theory, in First Bookkeeping.
Fowler, W.—Second Accessit, Execution, in Second Book-keeping.
Gross, J.—Fourth Accessit in Christian Doctrine; First Premium in Law; First Premium in First French; First Premium in Modern History.
Gillen, J.—Second Accessit in Christian Doctrine; Second Accessit in Dogma.
Gramling, E.—First Accessit in Third German; Second Premium in Landscape Drawing.
Graves, E.—First Premium in Machine Drawing.
Harkin, J.—First Premium in Letter-Writing; First Premium in First Grammar; First Accessit in Third Algebra; Second Premium, Theory, in Second Book-keep-
Herman, J.—Fourth Accessit in Second Grammar.
Hertzog, A.—First Premium in Fifth Greek; First Accessit in Second Algebra; First Accessit in First French.
Krost, J.—Second Accessit in Second Grammar.
Kreutzer, J.—Third Premium in First Arithmetic.
Kennedy, P.—First Accessit in Fourth Algebra.
Keller, F.—First Premium, Theory, in First Book-keeping; First Accessit in Penmanship; First Accessit on violin.
Laurans, G.—First Accessit in Second Reading; First Accessit in Second Geography.
Leonard, H.—Second Premium in Second Grammar; First Premium on Flute.
Logan, T.—First Premium in Public Reading; Second Accessit in Law; First Accessitin Telegraphy; First Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
McHugh, J. P.—Second Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.	•
McIntyre, J. D.—First Premium in Telegraphy; Second Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.	.
Miller, S.—First Premium in Second Reading; First Premium in Second Geography.
McDonnell, S.—First Premium in Second Grammar; First Premium, ex aequo, in Fourth Penmanship; First Accessit on Flute.
Miller, J.—Third Accessit in Second Grammar; Fourth Accessit in First Reading.
McGorisk, W.—First Accessit in First Arithmetic; First Premium in Fourth Algebra.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
677
Mattimore, P. W.—Third Accessit in Second Arithmetic. McBriar, A.—Second Premium in Second Arithmetic.
Mattimore, P. J.—Fourth Accessit in Second Arithmetic.
Mass, F. J.—First Accessit in Fifth Latin; Second Accessit in Second Algebra.
Maguire, H.—Second Accessit in Fifth Latin; First Premium in Sixth Greek, First Division; First Premium in First Algebra.
McNulty, G.—First Accessit in Fifth Latin.
McCullough, P.—First Premium in .Seventh Latin, Second Division; First Premium in English Composition; Second Premium, Theory, in First Book-keeping.
McCue, M.—First Accessit in Seventh Latin, Second Division.
McEnery, J.—First Accessit in English Composition; Third Accessit in Third Algebra; First Accessit, Theory, in First Book-keeping.
McGrath, R.—First Accessit in Second German; First Accessit in Machine Drawing.	'
Murphy, L. D.—First Accessit in Law; First Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.	•
McCawley, P.—Third Accessit on Piano.
McKernan, Leo—First Premium in Second French.
Neidhart, J.—Second Premium in First Arithmetic; Third Accessit in English Composition.
O’Brian, A.—Third Accessit in First Arithmetic; Second Accessit, Theorv, in First Book-keeping; First Premium, Practice, in First Book-keeping; Fifth Accessit, ex jequo, in Penmanship; Second Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
. Otto, C.—Third Accessit in Fifth Latin; First Accessit in Public Reading; First Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
O’Brien, A.—Second Accessit in Seventh Latin, First Division; First Premium in Second German.
O’Rourke, J.—First Accessit in Sixth Qreek, Second Division; Second Accessit, ex aequo, in Second German.
Obert, J. E.—Accessit in First Grammar.
Peifer, T.—First Premium in First Reading; First Premium in First Orthography; Second Premium in LetterWriting; Second Premium'in First Grammar; First Accessit in First Geography; First Accessit in First History; Second Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Pefferman, E.—Second Accessit in Second Arithmetic; Second Accessit in First Geography; Second Accessit in First History.
Perea, J.—First Accessit in Seventh Latin, First Division.	’
Proudhomme, G. B.—First Accessit in Second French.
Proudhomme, L. W.—Second Accessit in Second French.
Quinn, T. H.—First Accessit in Second Arithmetic; Second Accessit in English Composition; First Premium, Theory, and First Premium, Execution, in Second Bookkeeping; Second Accessit in Penmanship; Fourth Accessit on Piano.
Quinn, J. P.—First Premium in Second Algebra.
Rettig, F.—First Premium in First Geography; First Premium in First History.
Robertson, C.—First Premium in Seventh Latin, First Division; Second Accessit, ex aequo, in Sixth Greek, Second Division; Third Accessit in Third Algebra; First Premium in Vocal Music.
Saylor, G.—First Accessit in First Reading; First Accessit in First Orthography; Second Accessit in LetterWriting; Second Accessit in First Grammar; Second Accessit, Theory, in Second Book-keeping.
Saylor, C.—Second Accessit in First Arithmetic; Second Accessit in Telegraphy.!
Schlink, F.—Second Accessit in Second Geography; Second Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Smith, W. D.—First Premium in Penmanship.
Wells, W.—First Premium in First Reading; Second Accessit in First Orthography; First Accessit in Second German; Third Accessit, Theory, in Second Book-keeping; First Premium on Guitar.
White, E. S.—First Accessit, Theory, in Second Bookkeeping ; Second Accessit in First French.
Junior Department.
Arnold, E.—Third Accessit in Modern History; First Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading; First Premium in
Christian Doctrine; First Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Burger, A.—First Premium, ex aequo, in Letter Writing; Second Accessit in Seventh Latin, Second Division; Second Accessit in Public Reading; First,Accessit in Bible History; First Premium, ex aequo, on Violin; First Accessit in Choir; Fourth Accessit in First Orthography.
Byrnes, J. P.—First ^Premium in Fourth Arithmetic, Second Division; First Accession Third Geography.
Byrnes, T.—Second Accessit, ex aequo, in Sixth Greek, Second Division; Third Accessit in Bible History.
Bergck, A.—First Accessit, ex aequo, in Second Catechism.
Beall, 0.—Second Accessit’in Second Catechism.
Corbin, W.—Second Premium in Second Grammar; Second Accessit in Third Arithmetic.
Connolly, W.—Second Accessit in Third Grammar; First Premium in Fourth Arithmetic, First Division; Second Accessit in Third Geography.
Campau, C.—Third Accessit in Third Grammar.
Carrer, J.—Second Accessit in Fourth Arithmetic, Second Division; First Accessit, ex aequo, in Second Catechism.
Clarke, C.—Second Accessit in First’Geography; Second Accessit in First History; Third Accessit in Public Reading; Third Accessit in Third German; Second Premium in Penmanship; First Premium in First Catechism; Third Accessit in Landscape Drawing.
Cavanaugh, J.—Third Accessit in Seventh Latin, First Division; First Accessit in Christian Doctrine; First Premium, ex aequo, in Fourth German; First Premium, ex aequo, in Bible History.
Dodge, W.—Fourth Accessit in Letter-Writing; First Accessit, ex aequo, in First Grammar; Second Premium in First Arithmetic.
Davis, W. J.—Third Accessit inLetter-Writing; Fourth Accessit in Second Geography; Fourth Accessit in Public Reading; First Premium in Choir.	.
Davenport, E.—First Accessit in Fourth Arithmetic, First Division; Third Accessit in Second Catechism.
English, J.—Third Accessit in Fourth German.
Faxon, H.—Second Accessit in First Reading and Orthography; Second Premium in Letter-Writing; Fourth Accessit in First Grammar; First Accessit in Penmanship.	.
Foley, J.—First Premium, ex aequo, in Letter-Writing; First Accessit, ex aequo, in First Grammar; Second Premium in First Geography ; First Premium, ex aequo, in History; Second Accessit in Christian Doctrine; Second Accessit in Penmanship.
Faxon, C.—First Premium in Second Grammar; First Premium in Second Geography; Fifth Accessit in Penmanship.
Fox, J.—Second Accessit, ex aequo, in Second Arithmetic.
French, J.—Second Accessit in Sixth Greek, First Division ; Second Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Goldsberry, F.—Third Accessit in First Orthography.
Gustine, C.—Second Premium in Second Reading and Orthography.
Goldsberry, S.—Second Accessit, ex.aequo, in Second Arithmetic.
Golsen, R.—First Accessit in Landscape Drawing.
Hagan, 0.—Fourth Accessit in First Orthography; Second Accessit in Second Geography.
Healy, J.—Third Premium in First Reading; Third Premium inLetter-Writing; Second Premium in First Grammar.
Heeb, B.—Fourth Accessit in Second Reading and Orthography ; Third Accessit in Second Grammar.
Hamilton, A.—First Premium in Second Reading and Orthography; Second Premium in Third Grammar; Second Accessit on Guitar.
Hansard, W.—First Premium in Third Reading and Orthography; First Accessit in Fourth Arithmetic, Second Division; First Premium in Third Geography.
Hagan, P.—Second Accessit in Second Grammar; Second Accessit in Bible History.
Henkel, H.—First Accessit in Third Grammar; Third Accessit in Fourth Arithmetic,First Division; Second Accessit in Architectural Drawing.
678
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Hagerty, J.—First Premium in First Arithmetic; Second Accessit in First German; First Premium, ex tequo, in Bible History.
Hatt, A.—First Accessit in Second Arithmetic; First Premium, ex aequo, in Second Catechism; First Premium in Figure Drawing; First Accessit on Guitar.
Healy, J.—Third Accessit in Seventh Latin, Second Division ; First Premium, ex aequo, in Second Catechism.
Hoffman, F.—Second Accessit on Violin.
Irvine, W.—Third Accessit in First Grammar; Fifth Accessit in Letter-Writing.
Kauffman, HL—First Premium, ex aequo, in First Reading and Orthography; Second Accessit in First Arithmetic; First Accessit in First Geography; First Accessit in First German; First Premium, ex aequo, in Second Catechism; First Accessit on Violin; First Premium in Orchestra.
Knight, J.—Third Accessit in First Reading; First Accessit in First Orthography; First Accessit, ex aequo, in Second Catechism; Second Accessit in Landscape Drawing.
Katzauer, M.—Third Accessit in First Arithmetic.
Kinney. J.—First Accessit in First Arithmetic.
Laub, E.—Second Premium in Second Arithmetic.
Larkin, C. V.—First Premium in Penmanship.
Lonstorf, G.—Third Accessit in Penmanship.
McAuliffe, M.—Second Premium in First Orthography; First Accessit in First Reading; First Premium in First Grammar; First Accessit in Third Arithmetic.
Mayer, R. P.—Fourth Accessit in First Geography; Third Accessit in First German.
Mosal, J.—First Accessit in Fourth German.
McClory, J.—Second Accessit in Machine Drawing.
Nicholas, W.—First Accessit in Second Reading and Orthography; Fourth Accessit in Second Grammar; Third Accessit in Third Arithmetic.
Nelson, J. Jr.—First Premium in Third Grammar.
, Orsinger, C.—First Premium, ex aequo, in First Reading and Orthography; First Accessit in Second Grammar; Third Accessit in Second Arithmetic; First Premium in First Geography; First Premium in First History; Second Accessit, ex aequo, in Second German.
O’Meara, J.—Third Accessit in Second Reading and Orthography; First Premium in Third Arithmetic; Second Accessit in First Catechism.
Perea, J.—Fourth Accessit in Second Arithmetic.
Peltier, C—Third Accessit in Second Geography; First Accessit in First Catechism: Second Accessit in Choir.
Ryan, D.—Second Premium in First Reading; Third Premium in First Orthography; First Accessit in LetterWriting; First Accessit in Public Reading; Second Accessit in Third German; Fourth Accessit in Bible History.
Ryan W.—Second Accessit in Second Reading and Orthography; First Accessit in Second Geography.
Raymond, E.—Second Accessit in Letter-Writing; First Premium in Second Arithmetic; Second Premium in Figure Drawing.	.
Ryan, A.—Second Accessit in Public Reading; and Fourth Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Riopelle, E.—Second Premium in Vocal Music; Second Premium, ex sequo, in Elocution.
Smith, E —First Accessit in Third Reading and Orthography ; Second Accessit in Fourth Arithmetic, First Division.
Scott, H.—Second Accessit in Third Reading and Orthography; Fourth Accessit in Third Grammar.
Streit, G.—Second Accessit in First Grammar; Fourth Accessit in First Arithmetic; Second Premium in Christian Doctrine; Fourth Accessit in Penmanship.
Schnuirer, P.—Third Accessit in First Geography; First Accessit in History; First Accessit in Fifth Greek; Second Accessit in Modern History; First Premium in First German.
Schmidt, A. K.—First Premium, ex sequo, in Public Reading; First Premium in Landscape Drawing.
Turnbull, W.—Second Premium in Second Geography.
Tamble, P.—First Accessit in Modern History; Third Accessit in Second German; Fifth Accessit in Bible History.
Van Namee.N.—Fourth Accessit in First Reading; Second Premium, ex aequo, in Penmanship.
Walsh, 0.—Third Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Minim Department.
Bushey, A. J.—First Premium in Second Grammar;
Third Accessit in Second Orthography; Third Accessit in Second Reading; Third Accessit in Second Catechism.
Bushey, S.—Second Premium in Fourth Reading; Third Accessit in Fourth Orthography; Third Accessit inFourth Catechism.
Bushey, C.—First Premium in Fourth Reading; Second Accessit in Fourth Orthography; Fourth Accessit in Fourth Catechism.
Buerger A.—Second Accessit in Second Orthography; Third Accessit in Third Arithmetic; Second Premium in Second Geography.
Campau, F. A.—First Premium in Second Reading; Third Accessit in Second Arithmetic; Fourth Accessit in Second Geography; Fourth Accessit in .Second Orthography ; Second Accessit in Second Catechism; First Accessit in Second Grammar.
Carlin, F.—First Premium in First Catechism; Third Accessit in First Arithmetic; Second Accessit in First Geography; Second Accessit in First Orthography; Fourth Accessit in First Reading; Third Accessit in Second Grammar.
Cash, W.—First Premium in Third Reading; First Accessit in Third Geography; Fourth Accessit in Third Orthography ; Fifth Accessit in Third Catechism.
Coolbaugh, W.—First Premium in Fourth Arithmetic; Third Accessit in Third Geography; Fourth Accessit in Third Arithmetic; First Accessit in Third Reading.
Davis, J. P.—Second Accessit in Third Arithmetic; Second Premium in Second Orthography; Fourth Accessit in Second Catechism.
Duffield, J. A.—First Premium in First Reading; Fourth Accessit in First Arithmetic; First Accessit in First Geography; Fourth Accessit in First Orthography ; Third Ac-, cessit in First Catechism; Third Accessit in First Grammar.
Frazee, L. J.—First Premium in First Arithmetic; First Premium in First Orthography; Second Accessit In First Geography; First Accessit in First Reading; First Accessit in First Grammar; Fifth Accessit in History; Second Accessit in Penmanship.
Gustine, M.—First Premium in Second Geography; Second Accessit in Second Grammar; Second Accessit in Second Catechism; Fourth Accessit in Second Orthography.
Gilbert, J.—Second Accessit in Fourth Reading; Fourth Accessit in Fourth Penmanship; Fifth Accessit in Penmanship.
Heron, P.—First Premium in Third Grammar; First Accessit in Second Orthography; Second Accessit in Second Reading; Second Accessit in History; Fourth Accessit in Penmanship.
Haney, P. J.—Second Premium in Third Reading;
Third Accessit in Third Orthography.
Knapp, L.—Second Accessit in Fourth Reading; Fourth
Accessit in Fourth Orthography.	•
Lindberg, 0. N.—First Premium in First Grammar; Second Premium in First Arithmetic; Accessit in Geography; Second Premium in First Orthography; Second Accessit in First Reading; Second Accessit in Catechism; Second Accessit in Penmanship.
Lowrey, G. P.—First Premium in History; Second Accessit in Second Arithmetic; Second Accessit in Second Geography; Second Accessit in Second Reading; Second Accessit in Second Grammar.
Lambin, G. M.—First Premium in Third Orthography; Third Accessit in Third Arithmetic; First Accessit in Fourth Geography; Second Accessit in Third Catechism.
Long, C.—Second Premium in Fourth Reading; Second Accessit in Fourth Orthography.
McDevitt, W. A.—First Premium in Third Catechism; Second Accessit in Third Arithmetic; Second Accessit in Third Geography; Second Accessit in Third Reading. .
McDonald, H. A.—First Premium in Fourth Orthography; Third Accessit in Fourth Geography; Third Accessit in Third Reading; Third Accessit in Fourth Catechism.
McGrath F. T.—First Premium in First Geography; Second Accessit in First Arithmetic; Second Accessit in First Orthography; Third Accessit in First Reading; Second Premium in History; Fourth Accessit in First Catechism ; Second Accessit in First Grammar. .
Nelson, P. P.—First Premium in Second Arithmetic; 1 Fourth Accessit in Second Geography; Fourth Accessit
l
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
679
in Second Orthography; Third Accessit in Second Reading ; Second Accessit in First Catechism.
Oatman, E —Second Premium in Fourth Orthography; Third Accessit in Fourth Reading.
Pleins, R. J.—First Premium in Second Orthography; Fifth Accessit in Second Geography; First Accessit in Second Reading; Third Accessit in Catechism; Second Accessit in Third Grammar.
Rhodius, G. W.—First Premium in Penmanship; Fourth Accessit in Second Geography; Third Accessit in Second Orthography; Fifth Accessit in Second Reading; Sixth Accessit in History.
Seeger, J. A.—First Premium in Third Geography; Second Premium in Third Orthography; Second Accessit in Third Reading; Second Accessit in Third Catechism.
Smith, W.—First Premium in Fourth Geography; Second Accessit in Third Orthography; Fourth Accessit in Third Geography; Second Accessit in Third Orthography; Third Accessit in Third Reading.
Stanton, J. 0.—First Premium in Second Catechism; Third Accessit in Second Arithmetic; Third Accessit in Second Geography; Fifth Accessit in Second Orthography; Fourth Accessit in Second Reading; Third Accessit in Third Grammar.
VanPelt, W.—First Premium in Third Arithmetic; Second Accessit in Third Orthography; Third Accessit in Third Reading; Sixth Accessit in Penmanship.
Tuesday Night.
The D’ramatic Exhibition in Washington Hall began promptly, as announced,at 7.30. The hall was crowded to its utmost capacity, and but for the low condition of the thermometer would have been unendurable. As Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger entered, the audience greeted him with rounds of applause. An overture by the Orchestra followed; then the curtain rolled up and presented the poet of the Alumni, J. D. McCormick, of ’73. The subject chosen was “A Dream of Life, or Nature’s Nobleman.” It was, says the South Bend Herald, a thoughtful, rhythmical production, rich in fancy and noble in sentiment, and greeted with deserved applause. The Prologue, in which was incorporated a declamation entitled “ William Tell, ” was well declaimed by W. T. Ball. The gift of eloquence is possessed by Mr. Ball, and a few more years will render him a finished orator. Prof. Corby, of Chicago, next came forward. He was greeted with rapturous cheers, and sang'an impromptu in his magnificent style. He received such a tumult of applause that he could not mistake its meaning, so he returned and sang the beautiful ballad “The Good-bye at the Door.” This was equally well received. Prof. Corby need not be ashamed of his voice. He is one of Chicago’s favorite vocalists.
Part Second presented the old, familiar patriotic drama, “William Tell.” The play was slightly remodelled for the occasion. The part of Tell was taken by J. J. Gillen. The grand passion of Tell when he learns from Melctal that the tyrant has put out the old man’s eyes, sent a thrill of sympathy through the audience. A: K. Schmidt sustained the part of Albert in true theatrical style. We have seen Master Schmidt on the stage before, and never saw him excel his acting last night. The tyrant Gesler was personated by B. L. Euans. Gesler’s base ingratitude to little Albert was very true to life. H. C. Cassidy played the part of Sarnem in good style. The old men in the play, W. T. Ball and E. G. Graves, are seldom surpassed on the stage. The patriot Verner was well taken by C. Otto. Messrs. E. Monahan, N. Mooney, L. Evers, W. Dechant, M. Caren, and others, filled the remaining parts. An operatic piece from the Orchestra followed the grand tableau of the conclusion of the play.
The whole Entertainmeut closed with a farce called the “ Irish Tutor, ” in which the young men played to amuse the audience, and succeeded. The principal characters were W. J. Mooney, J. G. Ewing, W. T. Ball, C. Otto, C. Robertson, and A. K. Schmidt,. The plays were interspersed with declamations by E. Arnold and Thos. C. Logan. The latter declaimed the “Polish Boy” in true elocutionary style. The Exhibition throughout occasioned
much pleasure to the large audience; We know of no exhibition at the close of the year that has excelled that of last Tuesday. We trust the same success will follow the young gentlemen in after-life.
The Alumni.
The attendance this year at the reunion of the Associated Alumni Was, we are glad to say, much larger than on any previous year; and though circumstances over which there was no control had detained a few away whose presence would have given additional gladness to the occasion, still each and all seemed to enjoy the meeting with the friends of other years.	•
The exercises of the Association opened, as usual, with Solemn High Mass at 6 o’clock on Tuesday morning, celebrated by Rev. President Colovin. The annual businessmeeting took place at 9 o’clock, a. m., as announced on the programme, when the ensuing officers were elected and appointments made for the following year: President, J. A. Lyons, of ’62; Vice-Presidents, M. A. J. Baasen, of ’64, and J. D. McCormick, of 73; Secretary, Rev. J. A. O’Connell, of ’67; Treasurer, T. E. Howard, of ’62; Orator, Rev. W. Corby, of’56; Alternate, W. J. Clarke, of’74; Poet, T. A. Dailey, of ’74; Alternate, N. S. Mitchell, of’72; Historian, A. j. Stace, of ’64.
The banquet was spread in one of the large study-halls, at 1 o’clock p. m., to which about thirty members, a few invited guests, and the newspaper representatives assembled. It was recherche and enjoyable. The feast concluded, Prof. Ivers, master of toasts, arose and introduced, with appropriate prefatory remarks, the following toasts: .
Pope Pius IX—Beloved by the good and admired even by the bad; the defender of liberty, from anarchy on the one hand and from despotism on the other—posterity will place him by the side of Gregory VH and Innocent HE, as the wise guardian of the right and the courageous champion of civilization.	..
Responded to by Very Rev. E. Sorin.
The President of the United States—The head of the greatest, freest, best government under the sun; may he ever be mindful of its interests, faithful in executing its beneficent laws, and give an example of honor, justice and probity to its millions of happy people. Responded to by J. D. McCormick, of Lancaster, Ohio.
The President of Notre Dame—The director of the foremost Catholic institution of learning in the great West, whose glory is to impart sound instruction in art, science and in that which is of far more importance for time and . eternity—religion; may his be a glorious reign—eclipsing even by its good rusults the glorious time gone by. Responded to by Rev. P. J. Colovin.
Our fellow members—They have passed through the severe school of life; may they have studied well its lessons, so that now they maybe in the enjoyment of a heavenly reward for their struggles in time.
The response were appropriate and not too long. Very Rev. E. Sorin eulogized the “ grand old man in Rome” and through him the glory and simplicity of the. old Church. Mr. McCormick did not speak of the president as a man (he could say nothing to favor the Administration), but as the representative and head of a great people. His remarks showed an extensive knowledge of our civilization and laws.
President Colovin remarked that he and Notre Dame were exactly the same age. He said the growth of an institution is seldom the sole work of one man, but rather it grew by imperceptible degrees and was a monument to all concerned. He had great hopes for the future of Notre -Dame.	.
To “ our departed fellow-members ” the Alumni responded by standing in silence, with bowed heads, while the toast was read by Prof. Ivers. The historian, Prof. Howard, next read the record of the year, tracing the public career of each member as nearly as possible. None had died in the year just closed and all were prospering in the different walks of life. The Professor hoped the record would be more complete next year, and the meeting adjourned.
680
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame. Jmieiad, 1876.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC will in September enter upon the tenth year of its existence, greatly improved and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
Besides the Local News which will weekly appear, the readers of the SCHOLASTIC will find in it many Literary and Scientific articles of general interest.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, ^Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
Society Day.
It rained somewhat on Saturday morning, but by noon the sun was shining and everything looked well for Society Day. And so it was. For the skies continued bright until long after the exercises were finished.
The entertainment offered by the representatives of the various societies was modelled after those of former years, and was superior to them in two things. It was not long, and there was less reading from manuscript, although we must chronicle the fact that all did not follow the excellent advice given them by the Scholastic several weeks ago. We trust that next year, on Society-day, every Society will be represented by an orator, and that all essays, etc., will be barred out.
It has been remarked to us, time and again, that the Orchestra has played with more spirit and has given more pleasure these past few weeks than it did during the year. It is true, and on Society-day especially the beautiful manner in which this organization executed their morceaux was admired by every one. We are sorry that all the music on the programme was not given, but we are told that the pieces were left out in order to shorten the programme, a praiseworthy object, it is true, but at the same time we would have liked to have heard the singing. The Archconfraternity was represented by Mr. John G. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, who read a well-written and thoughtful essay on “ The Present Situation of the Church.” Mr. W. T. Ball, of Chicago, Ill., represented the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society; he delivered his speech in fine style, taking for his subject “The Influence of Literary Societies.” Mr. A. K. Schmidt, of Chicago, Ill., appeared in behalf of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, and read his address in the happy manner characteristic of the gentleman.	'
The Junior branch of the Archconfraternity chose Mr. Eugene Arnold, of Washington, D. C., as their representative. He took the glories of their Patroness as his theme. Mr. Carl Otto, of Havana, Ill., was the spokesman of the Thespians. As they form a dramatic club, Mr. Otto, after speaking of the drama, gave an illustration of the art by closing with a declamation well delivered. The Philo-patrians were represented by three members, Messrs. N.-VanNamee, of Elkhart, Ind., E. Davis, of Tremont Centre, Mich., and D. Nelson, of South Bend, Ind., who took part in a very humorous and entertaining original dialogue which caused much laughter.
The Scientific Society chose as their representative Mr. N. J. Mooney, of Amboy, Ill. He read an address in praise of Natural Science, and of his Society, whose object was the acquisition of science. Mr. T. C. Logan, of Chili,
South America, appeared on behalf of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club. He received great applause when he had finished his address, and in response to calls gave a declamation with great feeling and truth. The German address was read by Mr. Gari Otto,- but as ye reporter is not aquainted with the language it is impossible for him to say any more than that he appeared to read it with great fluency and correctness.. The representatives of the different Societies having finished, Rev, J. A. Zahm made the closing remarks^which were received with every mark of appreciation by the audience. The Orchestra then played a short selection and thus ended Society-day,
Graduates’ Day.
The music on Graduates’-day was up to the usual standard of excellence; and as we have already spoken of the music on Society-day, anything further from us is unnecessary.
The exercises on Monday began at four o’clock in the afternoon, with the overture to “La Dame Blanche,” by the orchestra. The first address was by Henry E. O’Brien, of Kewannee, Ill., who represented those receiving diplomas in the Commercial Department. His address was on Commerce, and showed that the young gentleman had a keen appreciation of the duties and obligations of all who enter commercial life. The Latin address was read by Mr. J. Caren, of Columbus, O. The latinity of the address was classical and the reading good. Mr. Henry L. Dehner, of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, read a well-written essay entitled “Study of Human Nature.” The composition was all that could be desired, and the reading forcible and clear, Mr. Florian A. Devoto, of Notre Dame, Ind., chose for his subject “ Phases of Nature,” and treated it like one who knows whereof he speaks. Edward G. Graves, of San Antonio, Texas, read an excellent paper on “Civil Engineering,” in which he is an apt and devoted student. John J. Gillen, of Lawrence, Mass., took for his subject “ Scientific Culture,” and madeVery good use of it, treating it in a broad and comprehensive manner. E. S. Monahan, of Louisville, Ky; spoke of “ Geology,” especially as it affects the teachings of religion. The essay was a scholarly production. Mr. Benjamin F. Euans, of Wat-seca, Ill, read a paper entitled “ A Glance at the Stars,” which displayed an excellent knowledge of astronomy. Altogether the papers read and the addresses delivered were interesting, and worthy of high praise; and the graduates of ’76, the Centennial year of our Independence, are to be congratulated on the fine showing they made on Monday last.	■
The closing remark's were made by Rev. P. J. Golovin, who spoke words of encouragement to the young gentle men, who, having made a good course of studies at Notre Dame, are now about to enter upon the duties of life.
The Boat Race.
At about 4 o’clock* everybody wended tbeir way to St. Joseph Lake to witness what proved to be the most exciting boat-race ever seen at Notre Dame. The course was three times over the lake, making two turns; length of course about three-quarters of a mile. On account of the roughness of the water, some difficulty was experienced in starting. The Hiawatha started well, but on the first turn her rudder became useless, whereupon the Minnehaha took the lead and kept it, winning the race in 5.55. Gold anchors and fine rosettes were awarded the victors, Miss Logan, daughter of Hon. C. A. Logan, United States Minister to Chili, doing the honors of the occasion, ably assisted by D. E. Maloney, of ’74, ex-epmmodore. The crews were as follows. Minnehaha (champion): E. G. Graves, stroke; L. McCullum;—Harkins; Bon. Euans, capt.; H. L. Dehner; R. J. Maas, bow; Geo. J. Gross, coxswain. Hiawatha: E. S. Monahan, stroke; W. T. Ball, capt.; N. Mooney; E. Fishburne; P. Mattimore; F. Devoto, bow; J. McHugh, coxswain. The judges of the race were Henry Fitzgibbon, of Chicago, John D. McCormick, of Lancaster, Ohio, and Augustus Schmidt, of Chicago. After
*
i	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	681
the race the two crews sat down to an excellent table in the Minims study-hall.
Personal.
—Joseph F. Fleury, of the Chicago Daily Courier, was at Notre Dame on the 12th.
—James Ward, of’73, was admitted to the bar in Chicago on the 8th of this month.
—Mr. Patrick Dunne, from the Seminary of Our Lady of the Angels, Suspension Bridge, N. Y., has been visiting v Notre Dame for a few days.
—Mr, C. T. Murray and lady, of the South Beni Herald, T. A. Dailey, of the Herald, Adams, of the Chicago Times, ■* Fleury, of the Evening Journal, Alward, of the Detroit Free Press, Brower and Fassett, of the Register, were here du-/	ring the Commencement Exercises.
*	—Among the old students who were present at the Com-
I	mencement were, D. J. Clarke, of ’70, of Columbus, D. J.
I	McCormick, of ’73, of Lancaster, W. J. Clarke, of ’74, of
Columbus, O., H. J. Quan, of ’75, of Chicago, Ill., E. Pearl, ।	of ’74, of Chicago, D. O’Brien, of ’74, of Kewaunee, Ill.
j	—Among the Clergy who attended the Commencement
I	Exercises at. Notre Dame and St. Marys we noticed Rt.
1	Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne, Rev. Fathers
Oechtering, of Mishawaka, Nohl, of Elkhart, O’Sullivan, of I	Laporte, Borg, of Laporte, O’Reilly, of Valparaiso, Flana-
gan, of Chicago, Gunn, of Burlington, F. L. Baroux, Ecorse, Wayne Co., Mich.
—Among the visitors at Notre Dame'and St. Mary’s during Commencement-week we noticed Hon. P. B. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, Charles Dennehey and lady, W. J. Ona-han, C. C. Couley, P. L. Garrity and lady, Thos. Nelson, K. G. Schmidt, J. J. McGrath, Henry Fitzgibbon, James & O’Connor, Thos. Hutchinson, Miss S. Fesler, Mrs. James J. McGrath, all of Chicago; Geo. E. Lloyd, of New York, Hon. D. R. Leeper, Dr. Cummins, Miss Talley, Prof. T. E. i Howard and lady, Prof. L. G. Tong and lady, Prof. Stace, Dr. Inibleau, Dr. Cassidy, C. N. Fassett, of the Register, and I	many others of South Bend; Joseph Rumely, of Laporte,
ij	Charles J. Taylor, and Miss McMichael, of Mishawaka,
H. J. Lenzen, Chicago, D. Lowery, Pekin, Ill., J. Seeger, F. Pleins, Dubuque, Messrs. Faxon, Rosa, and Schlink, / .Chicago, Mr. and Mrs. Foote, and Mr. Murphy, Burlington, Mrs. J. C. Clarke, Chicago, Jesse Johnson, Detroit, Mr. s	Caren, Mr. and Mrs. Clarke, D. J. Clarke, W. J. Clarke,
l>	Mr. English, Columbus, Ohio, Mr. Logan, U. S. Minister
J i	to Chili, and daughter, Mr. Breen, Mrs. and Miss Flaherty,
M Niles, Paul Broder, Beloit, Wis., D. J. Wile, Laporte, Rob-M - ert Staley, St. Louis, H. V. Hayes, Chicago, D. E. Maloney, h	Elgin, Ill., Mr. Stanton, Portsmouth, 0., Hon. C. Riopelle,
;	Detroit, James Warde, Chicago, M. A. J. Baasen, Milwau-
■ kee, Thos. Cochrane, Chicago, Mr. Mattimore, Toledo, N. [' S. Mitchell, Dubuque, Mrs. Geo. W. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Mr. Oatman, Chicago, Mr. Ryan, Dubuque, Jas. Ryan, Calumet, Mich, Dr. Cross, Rochester, Minn., Mrs. Widdecombe, Columbus, M. Godfrey, Monroe, Mich., L. Busch, M. T. Corby, Jas. Taylor, Henry Quan, Jno, Drake, P. J. O’Ccn-V nell, Chicago, Mr. and Mrs. O’Meara, Cincinnati, E. O’Brien, ' Kewaunee, Ill., A. B. McMichael, Miss M. Grimes, Misha-waka, S. Watson, Detroit, Hon. Judge Corbin, John W. j	Houghton, Plymouth, Ind., E. B. Whittaker, New Haven,
/ J. L. Pocock, J. Sailor, Antwerp, Ohio, Mr. and Mrs. Pel-;	tier, Detroit, C. O’Brien, Toledo, Miss Ball, Lafayette, Ind.,
j	Mr. Orsinger, La Salle, Thos. Walsh, Chicago, W. Schul-
f	thies, Detroit, Misses J. and L. Walsh, M. and J. Loner-
f - gan, and E. Kirwin, Chicago, Mr. and Mrs. Foster, Laporte.
’	Local Items.
1 I	'
r	—Good-bye until September.
—The Campus looks somewhat desolate just now.
—Mr. Onahan’s Oration was universally admired.
—We wish the very best of times to all going home.
—The Commencement Exercises all passed off splendidly.
C	'
—When all are going to the Centennial let them drop a line.
—We met any number of old friends during Commencement week.
—Let every one of you now get a few subscribers for the Scholastic.
—The boat race was one of the most exciting ever run at Notre Dame.
—The weather during Commencement was all that could be desired.
—The fourth of July will be celebrated at Notre Dame with great ceremony.
—There will be many improvements made at Notre Dame during the vacation.
—The probabilities are that the College Halls will be more than crowded next year.
—Three fine Steinway pianos have been recently purchased for St. Mary’s Academy.
—We were shown a very fine water-color, the work of Mr. Fetsch, of Indianapolis, Ind.
—Two friends have donated this past week two stained glass windows to the new church.
—The new Campbell cylinder press is now up. This number of the Scholastic is printed on it.
—It was really good to see the affection which was displayed by the students towards each other when leaving.-
—Two very pretty sanctuary lamps have been lately presented to the new church. They are now hanging in the edifice.
—In the next number of the Scholastic, August 19th, we will give a full list of all the officers of the House. Look out for it!
—The lecture courses next year will be unusually good. Arrangements will be made- during the vacation to have a number of excellent speakers engaged.
—Catalogues will be sent to all the students next week, or the week after. If any of your friends want any, write to the Student’s Office, and they will be sent to them.
—We are under obligations to Mr. Thomas Clifford, of ’72, for a copy of “ Horse-Car Poetry, ” republished from the new monthly’fcagazine “Record of the Year” by G. W. Carleton & Co., New York, price acts. It is a very entertaining pamphlet.
—We bid all our subscribers adieu until the 19th of August, when we will send them the first number of Volume X. The Scholastic has not yet entered the teens, but if it continues as prosperous the coming years as it has been in the past it will enter the teens and pass through them. We trust that though our subscription list has been very large this past year it may be doubled in 1876-7.
The press put in here by our office mate, the Ave Maria, has long been wanted,.owing to the great increase in its subscription list; the fact of its whole issue being sent by mail, much of it to distant parts, necessitating increased facilities in getting it out. The press is a double-ender, inking from both ends, and the class of work capable of being turned out by it cannot be surpassed. The speed is estimated at about 2,000 impressions an hour on first-class work. It has been put up by Mr. George E. Lloyd, the ingenious and gentlemanly agent of the Campbell Company, and one who thoroughly understands his business.
—Oum new press, announced some time ago, is up and running. It works admirably. Fine printing presses arc wonderful pieces of mechanism, and this is one of the finest we have ever seen, both for mechanical ingenuity and the . splendid workmanship executed by it. The Adams book press was a fine piece of machinery in its day, the “ Hoe last fast,” with its four, eight, twelve and sixteen cylinders, a grand affair, but the web presses of Bullock and Hoe replaced the latter for speed only in turn to be replaced by those of the Campbell Company, which will soon, very likely, supplant all others. Campbell, the manufacturer, is undoubtedly a mechanical genius, and he must have taxed this genius to the uttermost in the constructing of his printing presses; they are masterpieces of skill and mechanical
/
682
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
contrivance, and one cannot but feel surprised at the excellence of the work turned out by them at the highest rate of speed—a fact attributable to the excellent arrangement for distributing the ink and the automatic workings of the press. There are now nine presses of this make at the Centennial Exposition, in a fine building erected specially for that purpose by the Campbell Company, where no doubt they will attract much attention from those interested in the art preservative and in fine-machin-eiy.	.
The June Examinations.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Atfield, E. 98; Brown, J. 91; Byrnes, D. 79; Byrne, W.84; Breen, W. 100; Betcher, A. 53; Baca,V. 74; Bearss, F. 68; Ball, W. 97; Brady, F. 74; Belford, F. 79; Cooney, J. 100; Cooney, P. 61; Calkins, R. 64; Conolly, J. 72; Campbell, J. 83; Cross, M. 63; Campau, C. 60; Cassidy, H. 100; Chapoton, W. 46; Carroll, T. 75; Claffey, F. 95; Coleman, J. 100; Caren, J. 95; Coleman, J. D. 86; Devoto, F. 94; Dehner, H. 100; Dickerson, W. 72; Dryfoos, I. 77; Dechant, W. 81; Dempsey, J. 75; Evers, L. 95; Ewing, J. 98; Euans, B. 90; Fowler, W. 58; Flanigan, W. 91; Fogarty, W. 77; Fishburne, G-. 87; Fishburne, E. 85; Graves, E. 100; Gallagher, T. 100; Gillen, J. 98; Gramling, E. 60; Gross, G. 97; Gunn, J. 89; Hertzog, A. 97; Harkin, J. 90; Herman, J. 78; Keller, F. 81; Kennedy, P. 93; Kreutzer, J. 85; Keily, W. 78; Krost, J. 64; Logan, T. 86; Lambin, J. 38; Leonard, H. 59; Laurence, J. 71; Maguire, H. 95; McCauley, P. 76; McBriar, A. 96; Mattimore, P. W. 90; Mattimore, P. J. 91; Monahan, E. 77: McNulty, G. 91; McCullum, T. 68; Meyer, C. 53; Murphy, L. 85; McHugh, J. 87; McKernan, L. 79; Mooney, N. 97; McIntyre, J. 82; Maas, R. 79; Maas, F. 86; McGrath, R. 93; NcEnry, J. 95; McGorrisk, W. 88; Murdock, W. 72; McCollough, P. 96; McCue, M. 99; Miller, F. 87; Miller, J. 79; Millen, H. 73; McDonell, G. 95; Neil, P. 48; Neidhardt, J. 97; O’Brien, H. 88; Otto, Carl 94; O’Rourke, J._ 90; O’Brian, A. 83; O bert, J. 68; Perea, J. 83; Pefferman, E. 86; Peiffer, T. 84; Pollard, W. 78; Proudhomme, L. 60; Proudhomme, J. 65; Quinn, T. 95; Quinn, J. 92; Rettig, F. 73; Robertson C. 86; Sullivan, G. 80; Sugg, E. 50; Smiley, F. 65; Saylor, C. 89; Saylor, G. 83; Schlink, F. 77; Smith, W. 85; Wells W. 73; White, R. 67; White, C. 86; Vandervannet, F. 70.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Arnold, E. 87; Arnold, W. 92; Ball, O. 96; Bergck, A. 84; Byrnes, T. 80; Byrne, J. 80; Burger, A. 91; Boos, P. 80; Carrer, J. 79; Cavanaugh, J. 93; Clarke, C. 74; Collins, E. 70;. Connolly, W. 80; Corbin, W. 67; Campau, C. 78; Cox, W. 71; Dodge, W. 90; Davis, W. 90; Davenport, E. 70; Donnelly, G. 83; Ewing,F. 76; English, J. 84; Faxon, H. 79; Faxon, C. 97; Frane, P. 90; Foley, J. 90; Flanigan, F. 86; Fox, J. 64; French, J. 95; Gustine, 88; Goldsberry, F. 77; Goldsberry, S. 84; Golsen, R. 77; Heeb, B. 70; Hagan, C. 77; Hagerty, J. 87; Hoffman, F. 87; Hansard, W. 83; Hagan, C. 86; Halley, M. 87; Hamilton, A. 42; Henkle, H. 64; Healy, J. 90; Hatt, A. 80; Irvine, W. H. 77; Ka’zauer, M. 69; Kauffman, M. 82; Kinney, J. 87; Knight, J. 72; Larkin, C. 74; Lonstorf, G. 68; Laub, E. 8Q; Lang, F. 79; Mayer, R. 74; Mosal, J. 82; McAuliffe, M. 98; McClory, J. 43; Nicholas, W. 84; Nelson, D. 76; Nelson, J. E 63; Neater, G. 83; Nelson, J. P. 90; O’Meara, J 85; Orsinger, C. 92; Perea, J. 81; Peltier, C. 77; Phelan, F. 88; Pleins, F. 74; Rosa, F. 64; Raymond, E. 76; Reynolds, J. 88; Riopelle, E. 68; Ryan, A. 96; Ryan, D. 83; Ryan, W. 96; Roelle, W. 82; Streit, G- 82; Schnurrer, P. 77; Scott, H. 85; Schmidt, A. 79; Sugg, G. 76; Smith, E. 87; Smith, F. 70; Schubert, C. 84; Scanlan, K. 97; Taulby, W. 81; Tamble, P. 91; Treaver, J.; Turnbull, W. 65; Van Namee, N. 63; Walsh, C. 74; Widdicombe, W. 88.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
O. Lindberg, 99; L. Frazee, 100; T. McGrath, 100; J. Duffield, 99; F. Carlin, 98; A. Buerger, 95; F. Campau, 99; J. Bushey, 98; G. Lowrey, 99; R Pleins, 94; G. Rho-dius, 95; M. Gustine, 98; P. Nelson, 93; J. Davis. 92; J. Stanton, 100; P. Heron, 100; W. Cash, 96; W. Coolbaugh,
100; J. Gilbert, 82; P. Haney, 90; G. Lambin, 99; C.Long, 99; W. McDevitt, 100; H. McDonald, 98; L. Oatman, 99; J. Seeger, 92; W. Smith, 90; W. Van Pelt, 100; L. Knapp, 90; S. Bushey, 99; C. Bushey, 98.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Atfield, J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Bearss, F. Belford, F. Brady, P. Cooney, F. Claffey, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, J. Cooney, H. Cassidy, T. Carroll, John Coleman, John D. Coleman, F. Devoto, H. Dehner, I. Dryfoos, W. Dechant, J. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, P. Flanigan, E. Graves, G. Gross, A. Hertzog, J. Harkin, J. Herrmann, F. Keller, iP. Kennedy, J. Kreutzer, W. Reily, J. Krost, G. Lauranse, E. Monohan, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, H. Maguire, R. Maas, F. Mass, W. Murdock, 8. Miller, J. Miller, P. McCawley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum, R. McGrath, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, M. McCue, 8. McDonnell, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, H. O’Brien, C. Otto, J. C. O’Rourke, A. O’Brien, E. Pefferman, T. Peifer, W. Pollard, J. B. Proudhomme, T. Quinn, F. Rettig, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, G. Sullivan, F. Schlink, F. Vandervannet, R. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Arnold, W. Arnold, T. Byrne, O. Bell, A. Bergck, J. Byrne, A. Burger, C. Clarke, J. Carrer, E. Collins, J. Cavanaugh, C. Campau, W. Dodge, J. Donnelly, W. Davis, F. Ewing, J. English, J. Foley, J. French, F. Flanagan, C. Faxon, H. Faxon, 8. B. Goldsberry, R. Golsen, W. Hansard, H. Henkel. F. Hoffman, A. Hatt, J. Healey, B. Heeb, J. Hagerty, M. E. Halley, M. Kautzauer, J. P. Kinney, J. Knight, M. Kauffman, F. Lang, R. Mayer, M. McAuliffe, J. Mosal. D. Nelson, J. Nelson, C. Orsinger, C. Peltier, F. Pleins, J. Perea, E. Riopelle, F. Rosa, J. Reynolds, A. Ryan, S. Ryan, W. Ryan, W. Roelle, C. Roos, K. Scanlan, H. Scott, A. K. Schmidt, J. P. Schnurrer, J. Striet, G. Sugg, F. Smith, E. Smith, C. Schubert, W. Taulby, P. M. Tamble, N. Vanamee, C. Walsh, W. Widdicombe.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
O. W. Lindberg, F. T. McGrath, J. A. Bushey, F. Carlin, Lee Frazee, G. P. Lowrey, J. Duffield, A. J. Buerger, J. Davis, G. W. Rbodius, R. J. Pleins, J. O. Stanton, J. Seeger, W. Coolbaugh, W. Cash, W. McDevitt, Geo. Lambin, F. A. Campau, M. Gustine, P. Heron, P. J. Haney, P. P. Nelson, W. Van Pelt, C. Bushey, 8. Bushey, C. Long, E. Oatman, L. Knapp, W. Smith, J. Gilbert, H. McDonnell.
Annual Commencement Exercises.
Although the weather on Tuesday was unpropitious the audience was large, and listened with much interest and pleasure to the programme of the entertainment. Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger with a large number of the Rev. clergy honored the occasion by their presence. Among the visitors were a great many old friends of the Institution who for years have never been absent on such occasions, also a number of past graduates and former pupils. The annual meeting of these true friends of St. Mary’s is one of the happy features of Commencement-day.
St. Luke’s Studio was, as usual, one of the places where the visitors found much to admire. The specimens of work done by the pupils in pencil, water colors and oil were much praised by good critics. As the reporters have sent in a detailed account of the programme of the two days it will be unnecessary to go into particulars. The embroidery room also attracted the usual attention.
The beautiful marble statue of “ Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception,” which adorns the Academy parlor, has been lately ornamented with a pure gold crown—the gift of Mrs. Kirchner, of Detroit, Mich., two of whose daughters are being educated at St. Mary’s. The pious donor has shown by her gift her high appreciation of the pure aud beautiful.
The weather on Wednesday was delightful, and crowds of old friends and new" flocked to St. Mary’s to witness the highly interesting exercises of the day. The conferring of Honors and Graduating Medals on the good and persever
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
683
ing pupils who have deserved to be thus rewarded for their earnest labors is indeed a most charming spectacle and never fails to delight all who love, and admire virtue, grace and intelligence. So many youthful faces beaming with innocent joy, present a tableau that is ever remembered as one of the brightest pictures on which memory loves to dwell.
The Vocal and Instrumental music rendered on both days was highly creditable to the Institution, for the selections were from the best masters and interpreted with such grace and skill as to elicit the admiration of all who are good musicians or possessed of appreciative musical taste.
The sprightly entertainment given by the Juniors and Minims called forth rounds of applause. 'Fun and philosophy were comically mixed up in their Mellow drama, and if these merry little maidens carry outjthrough life their present theory they will never get prematurely grey. The speakers and singers were A. Kirchner, A. Ewing, M. and C. Hughes, A. McGrath, J. Smith, E. Simpson, E. Wight, L. Kinsella, M. Lambin, little Duffield and McCormack on the side of the merry ones. The dolefuls were represented by M. O’Connor, L. Hutchinson, M. Derby, L. Chilton, J. Holladay, M. McGrath and little E. Mulligan. The prologue was well read by M. Ewing. The Centennial music was given by the Juniors—A. Koch, A. Harris, M. Schul-thies, B. Wilson, A Cullen, and M. Redfield. All the Minims took part in the chorus songs and it was a lively affair.
The Valedictory on Commencement-day was very beautiful and touching, but many more valedictories were spoken at the parting of personal friends and these too were very beautiful.
Many pupils whose names were called among the second honors might have been among the first if they had returned promptly last September. This notice is for the benefit of those who intend aiming next year at a par excellence crown.
The great number of those who dined at the Academy after the exercises were over gave evidence that the hospitality of the Sisters is equal to the demand, for though the number of pupils and permanent residents has crowded the house the tables are still extension-tables.
The Singing on Tuesday and Wednesday.
The Duett, “ Quis est Homo," {Stabat Mater), by Rossini, a fitting introduction of the Vocal Department, formed an especially interesting feature of the Concert, and was sung by Misses Foote and Spencer, who displayed voices and talents above the ordinary. We were pleased to see, by the Programme, that they were again to appear as soloists. “Sancta Maria" was performed in a very creditable manner by Misses E. O’Connor, Cavenor, and Riley. Their voices blended well, each one being remarkable for its own peculiar beauty, and the trio was well received by the audience. Miss D. Cavenor, sang a charming romanza, from L’Africaine. Her voice partakes somewhat of a mezzo soprano and contralto, and yet has a distinctive character of its own not easy to describe. Careful study and faithful practice will in a'few years make her a successful candidate for future honors. Miss B. Spencer next interested the audience with the celebrated “ Aufforderung zum Tanze," by G. M. Von Weber. She sang with brilliancy of execution, and delicate taste; her trills, chromatics and “roulades” were exquisitely rendered, and show patient study and careful training.
The last piece of the concert was the light, tripping, sparkling chorus from “Robert." The soft passages, the staccato, and the quick transition of time, were admirably done, and the whole chorus was given with a spirit and dash seldom found among school-girls.
On Wednesday, Miss Ellie O’Connor, of Chicago, gave very pleasingly “ Che pur aspar al cuore," {Mozart). Her vocalization is most satisfactory, all the rapid passages being sung with facility and grace. The voice is sweet and pure, pleasing to all, and the execution excellent.
Miss Helen S. Foote, of Burlington, Iowa, who to-day received the well-deserved medal for proficiency in vocal music, sang “ Variazioni di Concerto, Sul Carnivale di Veniza," (J. Benedict) qnd caught the spirit of the piece completely. She sang with ease and grace the long trill; also the chain trills were perfectly rendered, soft, flowing into a gradual crescendo, and like the high tones (running
up to high E) were pure and bird-like. The liquid runs, and staccatos were given with exquisite precision, and in passages where the voice descends in low tones to B, below the staff, and suddenly glides up to C, on the ledger line, the intonation, quality, and tone were admirable; so was also her power of execution and expression. We learn that Miss Foote has for four years been a careful, studious pupil in St. Mary’s Conservatory, and she has certainly reached a rare finish for so young a pupil. We congratulate the young graduate.
The chorus singing on this day formed a striking feature of the Entertainment. The first one given was from the Oratorio of “Samson," by Handel. The movement was fugal, and very difficult, and yet in no part did they lose themselves.
The second, chorus was from the Oratorio of the “ Greet-tion," by Haydn. The trio, floating in soft, airy runs above the chorus part, was gracefully rendered by Misses Foote, O’Connor, and Spencer. Indeed both choruses were up to the high standard required at this well-known institution. The entire Vocal Class showed by their clearness of enunciation and nobleness of expression the high appreciation of the different classic works which they have been studying during the year.
The Coronation Ode, a colloquial chorus between the Graduating Class and their Schoolmates, formed a touching farewell.	•
The Literary Exercises.
The essays of the Graduating Class, which formed the literary feature.of the Entertainment on Tuesday, were in keeping with the musical exhibition, and were highly creditable to the youthful candidates for the honors of the day following. “ Love of the beautiful,” the first on the programme, read in a clear voice by the writer, Miss Ida Reynolds, was full of fine thoughts, and beautiful similes. The cloudy skies, however, were a great disadvantage to the young ladies, as, not counting on the want of sunlight, a substitute had not been provided. “ Gleam of Sunshine,” by Miss Mary Riley, contained excellent suggestions, and was read with a fluency and grace which impressed, the sentiments upon the listener. “St. Mary’s Santa Casa,” by Miss Katie Joyce, a very graceful tribute to the Institution from a young and affectionate heart, proved that years of study had not detracted from the vitality of that which is better than intellect—that science had not crowded out the beautiful virtue of piety, which alone gives weight to mental worth. This was the ruling feature of all the essays. “ The bright View of History,” by Miss McNamara, notwithstanding the evident embarrassment occasioned by the insufficient light, was among the best compositions of the day. The order of treating her subject, the admirable illustrations, and, above all, the lively faith breathed in every line, were not marred by the difficulty under which the young essayist labored, but rather commanded the deeper attention from the modest manner in which the painful ordeal was borne, and which exhibited her valuation of how much depended upon acquitting herself well. “Lamps of Affection,” a poem by Miss St. Clair, was admirably written and perfectly rendered. “Trust, the KeyStone of Friendship,” by Miss L. Arnold, touched a chord which found a response in the heart of every one present, while Miss A. T. Clarke, in her theme, “Fixed Principles the Ballast of Success,” was no less to be commended. The beautiful poem, “The Festive Year,” by Miss Foote, charmed the ear of the listeners, and evinced the fact that a rich voice for singing, and rare musical gifts, are not incompatible with equal literary talents. “ Tablets of Time,” by Miss York, the production of a more mature mind, was the most elaborate and carefully finished intellectual treat of the day, and was universally admired. The Valedictory, by Miss Dennehey, on Wednesday, an exquisite poem in itself, has never been excelled in depth of feeling, purity of sentiment, or elegance of diction, by any previously rendered at St. Mary’s.
ART DEPARTMENT.
On the afternoon of the 20th and morning of the 21st inst. St Luke’s Studio presented an exhibition unlike any we had ever before witnessed at St. Mary’s.
The centre alcove attracted every visitor, for therein was displayed a valuable collection of photographs, en-
I

684
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ rich pansies on a shaving case showed taste- and skill in ■ coloring. Miss E. Lange’s panel of pansies was exquisitely painted, as also were Miss A. Cullen’s pair of panels, ’ ornamented with columbines and wild roses. Miss A.
Koch had a little box ornamented with |wild roses and buds, also a watch stand with pansies, the tinting of which does credit to this little artist. Miss M. Schultheis painted most accurately on a fancy scroll of holly a lovely tinted shrub fl >wer, and on a paper cutter a cluster of spring beauties.
Miss Ritchie’s works in water-colors were excellent but few. Her time has been given to studies in oil. By exception, she has been permitted to execute a work prompted by filial devotion, namely to enlarge from a tin type a portrait of her deceased father in this branch of the art. The work is so admirable that some have doubted whether she had accomplished all herself or whether she had a print made by a photographer and merely added the coloring. The entire work is her own.
The Graduating essays on account of their exquisite adornments were also on exhibition in the Studio. This year, in honor of the Centennial anniversary, the nine read on Tuesday were in the form of shields, embellished with the stripes and stars—like a gjm, was inserted in each shield an oval card containing a representation of the subject treated, but, as was natural, the Valedictory was the most beautiful. The illustration of this was in the form of a dove bearing an olive branch and the American Flag. The charming devices are from the fertile genius of those who preside the Art Department.
The alcove assigned to' the oil paintings presented a charming spectacle. A cluster of calla lilies by Miss B. Wade had panels with wild flowers that were exquisitely done, her cactus flower was much praised as was also her collection of autumn berries and leaves. A first study from the cast of a Childs head was artistically shaded in oil, the most perfect gradation of tint having been produced. The two past years this young artist received the first premium in the First class of oil Painting, this year the premium par excellence was.won by her industry and skill. Miss Ritchie’s Japan lily aud panels of the narcissus and tulips were equally admired, so closely had she imitated nature that many said they looked as though the true flowers were laid on the black back-ground.
A painting entitled Eister Morning, by Miss C. Morgan, drew a great many admirers. It represents a cross of laurel wood with rich flowers at its basj, and the passionvine twining over the arms. The warm rays of sunrise fall upon it, rendering the effact perfectly lovely. The work is simply admirable. Her panel of richly tinted autumn leaves was much praised, aud a Japan lily with a back ground of ferns and grass is a good specimen of her first painting. Two beautiful little panels with the spray of the columbine and the blood root, first attempts at colorins, by Miss P. Gaynor, were exceedingly well done.
The marked improvement upon previous years promises much for the future. As we perused the various perfections of specimens from the pencils of the young artists we could but congratulate them, notonly upon their rare advantages, but upon the excellent use they have made of them. September will find them busy once more in their charming studio, and we shall look forward to June, 1877, with the anticipation of beholding an advancement upon the work of the present year, corresponding with the improvement of this upon the last.
Wednesday at St. Mary’s.
The number of people attending the exercises at St. Mary’s on Wednesday morning was very large. St. Cecilia Hall was quickly filled by a magnificent audience. The exercises began with Von Weber’s overture to “ Oberon,” executed on four pianos and two harps. These latter instruments were played by Misses E. O’Connor and E. Den-nehey, while the former were played by Misses H. Hoote, G. Kreigh, B. Spencer, J. Nunning, A. Dennehey, K. Hutchinson, H. and M. Julius. The execution was grand, and sent a thrill of pleasure through the entire audience. The chorus, “ Let the Celestial Concerts all Unite,” from Handell’s “ Sampson,” was sung with’a force and expression which surprised add delighted us. An aria from an onera of Mozart was sung with great feeling by Miss E. O’Connor, who was followed by Miss H. Foote. This latter was
gravmgs, etc., from works of celebrated masters, lately brought from Europe by Mother Superior. Our attention was first given to a magnificent chromo lithograph, a copy of the chef d'&uvre of the Cologne School of Painting, by Meister Stephan, from the celebrated Arun-dal Gallery of Dombield, the master-piece in the Cathedral of Cologne. The picture consists of a centre-piece with wings, on which last, when closed, is seen the Annunciation. In the inside, on the centre picture, is the Adoration of the Kings—the Virgin is seated on a throne, in a dark blue mantle lined with ermine. At her side are the two elder Kings kneeling, the younger one and the attendants stand around; on the right-side panels is St. Gereone (the patron of the city) in his armor of gold and surcoat of blue velvet, surrounded by his men-at-arms ; on the left, St. Vrsula with her escort and her host of virgins. We were told that even the coloring of this picture was an exact imitation of the original, and well may we remark of this what has been said by Dr. Waagen, of Berlin, of the original: This picture is remarkable for its solemnity and simple dignity of composition for the depth and force of tone, and the beauty and harmony of its colors. A feeling of ideal grace and beauty is breathed over the whole work, and is just as conspicous in the loveliness of the Virgin with the Divine Child, as the serene dignity of the Kings who worship, and the youthfulness of form and tenderness of expression in the holy Virgins and the Knights who accompany them.” A large number of photographs are from Membling’s celebrated paintings, but there are many from statuary, fine architectural structures, cathedrals, etc. Then there are lovely albums of photographic scenes from Rome, Naples and from Pompeu.
We noticed the complete series of engravings from the Dusseldorf gallery. These pictures, miniature copies of works, accepted by connoisseurs as masterpieces of art, convey a correct impression of their originals, and constitute an important acquisition to St. Luke’s Studio. In them the results of persevering toil and life-long devotion to art are exhibited, and they stand before us as constant incentives to exertion.
Turning from these grand old pictures, we behold the fresh but exquisitely truthful draughts from nature by the young artists at St. Mary’s. There were many studies in pencil from blocks of various forms, from spheres, eggs, shells, nuts, berries, leaves, flowers, attempts at foliage aud landscapes, also drawings from casts both in pencil and crayon. Miss R. Neteler’s pencil study from the cast of a child’s head is certainly very creditable. Her first study in erayon from the cast of Minerva attracted universal attention, and gained for her the premium par excellence. A variety of shells by Misses M. and E. Thompson, also by Miss J. Kreigh, evince the most accurate sketching and delicate shading. The Misses Thompson’s panels, one the calla lily and the other the beautiful large iris in crayon, were very much admired. Misses A. Cullen. E. Lange, A. Koch, M. Schultheis and M. O’Connor’s studies in pencil are exceedingly good. Misses A. Harris and J. Mitchell, by their industry, have p issed since S *ptember, at one hour’s practice a day only, through the first and second classes, and each had made studies in the third class which ornamented a beautifully designed wreath and a card basket. We shall expect much from these two little Misses next year if they progress as rapidly as they promise. The studies made by Misses S. Moran, P. Gaynor and G. Welch from blocks, shells, nuts, vines, flowers and landscapes are of superior execution and deserve a distinguished place in our enumeration. Miss D. Cavenor’s drawing and shading show a great deal of character; careful study a year or two longer will show far more than ordinary results.
In the Water-Color Department the studies made in In-dia-ink from cubes and prisms, so placed as to form a house in different positions, from cylinders and spheres, by the Misses R. Neteler, A. Cullen, E. Lange, A. Koch and M. Schultheis, were well done, and are preparatory steps, serving to water-colors what pencil shading does to drawing; they cultivate accuracy in the gradation of tints. : Each of these young pupils had fair specimens in coloring ' from the spring flowers, which practice, fitted them for or- ' namenting the many beautiful designs in hally wood. A ■ card-box with violets and a glove-box wi>h whild roses < were truthfully painted by Miss Ne tel er. Miss J. Kreigh’s j

THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	685
no less successful in her interpretation of Variazioni di Concerto. The same young lady played Schumann’s overture to “Julius Cmsar,” and was followed by the Juniors in A A Mellow-Drama” which caused much amusement. All the Juniors took part in it, and no names were put down on the programme. As all played well, we will not mention any particularly.
The grand trio and chorus: “God is Great,” from Haydn’s “Creation,” was well rendered. The soloists were: Misses H. Foote, E. O’Connor and B. Spencer; the chorus: Misses M. Gaynor, A. Dennehy, E. Arnold, G. Morgan, E. Cannon, S. and E. Edes, M. Walsh, A. Kirchner, 8. Cash, L. Walsh, J. Mitchell, D. Gordan, L. Johnson, B. Wade, H. O’Meara, M. Thompson, R. Casey, E. Thompson, J. Holladay, D. Cavenor, R. Devoto, E. Dennehy, M. Reilly, J.Bennett, I. Edes, A. Cavenor, A. Byrne, F. Dilger, A. Walsh, N. King, A. St. Clair—accompanied by Miss Julius. Tlie manner in which the whole was sung would be creditable to the pupils of any teacher, and the training displayed by the pupils is honorable to them and to their teachers. The “Coronation Chorus” was likewise well rendered. This was a double chorus, the graduates being accompanied by Miss Kreigh and the vocal class by Miss Julius. Premiums, medals and crowns were distributed, and the Valedictory was read by Miss E. Dennehey, who performed her task in a most creditable manner. The names of the graduates are Miss Foote, who graduated in three departments, the academic, the vocal music, and the instrumental; Misses Eleanor Dennehey, Emma York, Catherine Joyce. Catherine McNamara, I. Reynolds, Annie Clarke, Mary Reilly, Agatha St. Clair, Elizabeth Arnold. Crowns by excellence were given to the following young ladies: Misses E. Dennehey, H. Foote, K Jovce, K. McNamara, S. Moran, J. Nunning, H. Russell, E. York, M. Reilly, L. Arnold. Crowns were given to Misses N. Tuttle, A. Dennehey, M. Walsh, J. Bennett, F. Dilger, M. Brady, E. O’Connor, M. Faxon, C. Morrill, M. Gaynor, M. Usselman, M. Cravens, A. Walsh, A. Henneberry, A. Miller, I. Maas, E. O'Neil, J. Kreigh, H. Hutchinson, S. Cash, M. Thomson, E. Thompson, G. Wells.
The closing remarks were made in an extremely happy manner and gave great pleasure to all assembled. The march for retiring then struck up, and the exercises terminated.
ESTABLISHED 1S52.
». ips, lata & IM, Dealers in BOOTS A-TTZD STUOZES, The Largest Retailing House in the State Comerof Whington. sa and Michigan Sts., SOUTH bend.
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
TTZEHSrZRTY SPETH, Corner Washington and Michigan Sts., (Under Coonlcy’s Drug Store) SOUTH BEND INDIANA.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON, ZDZEZESTTTST, 109 MIGHIGATF STREET, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
ZMZZET57ZEZR, LI VUJSTG-STOdST, 60 "Washington. St., Three Doors lest of Blum’s Cigar store,	SOUTH BEND, IND
(g^Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps. Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
WM. O. SPEER.	K. S. MITCHELIi
.	(Class of ’72.)
SPEER & MITCHELL,
ATTORNEYS AT LAW,
225 Brady St., . . • Davenport, Iowa
Mustang Liniment,
Which has stood the test of 10 years.
There is no sore it will not heal, no lameness it will not cure, no ache, no pain, that afflicts the human body, or the body of a horse or other domestic animal, that does not yield to its magic touch. A bottle costing 25c., 50c., or $1.00 has often saved the life of a human being, and restored to life and usefulness many a valuable horse. mh 11-ly.
OTTO VON TESMAR,
TAXIDERMIST,
124 Orchard street, North Side, Chicago, Ill.,
Does all kinds of work pertaining to the Taxidermic Art at reason able prices. Also prepares Skeletons, refits Cabinets of Natural His tory. renews Specimens, etc., etc. For further particulars address
s above.	- mhll-tJy
The Enemy of Disease!
THE FOE OF PAIN
TO MAN AND BEAST
Is the Grand Old
ZEZZETSriRTT BTjTTJvr, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc IXo. 54= Washington St.,
solttjel zbzettzd,
686
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST, LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street. Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....2	40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........J................7	40 am 9 00 pm
Pekin and Peoria Fast Express..........4	00	pm	10	00	am
Peoria Day Express.....................7	50	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 40 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.... .7 50 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 2 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, R I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
. Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Pern accommodation............... 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD
(Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONER JOB ALL THE STATES,
206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special -Attention Given to Depositions.
KUtaml @enlral fctpL
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED-FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. E. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE. NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of train* from North and Southwest.
O Trains with Through Cars t °
° NE5V YORK.
No. 2. No. 6.
Day Ex. Pac. Exp Ex Sund’y Daily.
No. 4.
.Night Ex Ex Sa & Su
Lv. CHICAGO..............
Ar. FT. WAYNE............
“ Rochester.............
“ Pittsburgh............
Lv. Pittsburgh...........
Ari Cresson..............
44
<4 a
Ct
<€
<4 44
44
Harrisburg............... Baltimore................ Washington............... Philadelphia............. New York................. New Haven................ Hartford................. Springfield.............. Providence............... Boston...................
9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m
2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	5 20 a.m
1 18 a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
2 20 “	12 15 pm.	7 05 “
3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
12 05 p.m.	h 05 “	4 13 “
6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
7 35 ■“	6 50. “	11 15 “
11 10 “	10 49 “	3 36 p.m
12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	5 55 “
1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
4 25 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, April 16,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	-
GOING EAST.
3 40 a m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 40 p m; Buffalo 9 05.
IO 30 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p m; Cleveland 10 10.
12 27 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 00 am.
9 11 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 (>0; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
11 25 pm, Fast Mail, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 3 50am; Cleveland 710 a m., Buffalo 12 45 p m.
7 OO p m, Local Freight. GOING WEST.
3 41 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 p m, Chicago 6 am.
5 06 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 6; Chicago 820 am.
4 54 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicano, 8 20
8 Ol am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 01 a m; Chicago. 11 30 a. m.
3 38 a m., Fast Mail. Arrives at Laporte 4 28 a.m.; Chicago, 6 55 a. m.
8 55 a m, Local Freight. J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland. CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
I
Michigan Central Railway
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That-ru»s the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington Cily, Philadelphia and New^York without change. 'J hrough tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	■
F. B. MYEES, G. P. & T. A.
THE OJLR RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new. first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladie- and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts oi home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, ) PrODrietorH CAPTAIN MILLS, f proprietors.
Time Table-November 31.1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNigh Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ 6 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express. 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 12 35 “ 4 52 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30	10 05 a m 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p-m 715 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 ••	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30	9 50 p m 12 42 a.m 4 30 “ 5 50 “ ^8 00 “
Wiles and Sontli Bend Division. GOING NORTH. Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p m.	§9 06	a.m.	§7 00	p.m “ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7	23	“	9 07	“	7 07	“ Ar. Niles—	9	00	“	8	00	“	9 40	“	7 40	« GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	6	30 a.m.	4 20	p.m.	§8 00	a m.	§5 00 p.m “ Notre Dame—7 07	“	4	56	“	8	32	“	5 32 “ Ar. South Bend—7 15	“ ’	5 05	“	8	10	5 40 “ ♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily.	^Saturday	and Sunday excepted.' '	^Sunday only. G. L Elliott.	Wx. B. Stbong, Agent, South Bend,	- Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago Henby C. Wentwobth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago. .	B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.					
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
687
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and. Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
Chicago, immsrois.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, DNODIATNA.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL,
Opposite the Post Office,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Rates, $3.00 Per Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
“STANDARD” ORGAN
IS ACKNOWLEDGED BY THOSE ACQUAINTED WITH ITS CONSPICUOUS MERITS TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL REED ORGAN NOW IN THE MARKET. THE UNAPPROACHABLE ELEGANCE OF ITS DESIGNS FOR CASES AND ITS PERFECTION OF TONE AND GENERAL MECHANISM, COMBINED WITH THE POPULAR PRICES AT WHICH IT IS SOLD, ARE UNANSWERABLE ARGUMENTS IN ITS FAVOR.- EVERY ORGAN GUARANTEED. PRICE LISTS AND CATALOGUES FREE. CEN’L WESTERN AGENTS—THE ROOT £ SONS
MUSIC CO.
CHICAGO.
The Naturalists’ Agency Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of specimens of Natural History an opportunity of buying and selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plants, &c., &c Nearly all the collectors in America, and many of those in Europe, will visit this city during 1876, so that this will be the best opportunity ever offered for disposing of and purchasing specimens. My store-rooms are within ten minutes’ walk of the Centennial grounds, on the line of the Chestnut-street cars. I shall also have a branch within one minute’s walk of the main building. I have already in stock over $30,000 worth of specimens, including the finest specimens ever found of Amazon stone, brookite or arkansite, perofskite, nigrin, green wavellite, peganite, tellurium ores, feldspar, albite, petrified wood, smoky quartz; the birds and animals peculiar to the Rocky Mountains, &c., &c. I have spent nearly $7,000 during the past year in the collection and purchase of specimens. Special attention given to collections for schools and colleges. Correspondence solicited, with those wishing to buy or sell specimens, at an early date, as an illustrated catalogue will be issued before the 1st of May. I refer to
Prof. GEO. J. BRUSH, Dr. JOSEPH LEIDY, Prof. ASA GRAY, Prof. J. S. NEWBURY.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Fellow of the A. A. A. 8., Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy.
CL H. SHEERER, Hats, Caps and Furs, TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’‘Furnishing Goods, Etc., HO Michigan Street,
SOUTH ESGSTD TJSTTO.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER,
MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gons’ Furnishing Goods, Hats Caps, etc.,
109 Mlcliigan St., SOUTH BEJSTTD, IJSTZDIAITA. The Bond
A. McKay, Prop., JSTTLES, J^ICTTIG-AJST. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
A. C. SHIRE, .
■WHOLESALE
1O1 Main Street,
Two Boors South of Ed. Gillen’s, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA [Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
6SS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M. Livingston & Co.,
IABE THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend
Tliey Have tine Best; Cutter inthe City, nd make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clotlxirtg, CIo tli s, Cassimeres, Vestings*, and Gents’ JPuiMiislxiiig Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles. Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
REME1IBEB TUB PLACE,
01 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
' MOULD,
THE
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged aud finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees,grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
ROOT £ SONS MUSIC CO.
!	OFFER SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS
;	TO PURCHASERS—AT WHOLE-
i	SALE AND RETAIL-OFtFOREIGN
I	AND DOMESTIC SHEET MUSIC
;	AND MUSIC BOOKS, THEIR OWN
'	IMPORTATION OF VIOLIN AND
?	GUITAR STRINGS, ACCORDEONS,
<	CONCERTINAS, FLUTES,
I	GUITARS, VIOLINS, PICCOLOS
’	CLARIONETS, HARMONICAS,
t	DULCIMERS, ZITHERS, VIOLAS,
pt	VIOLONCELLOS, AND BRASS AND
I,	GERMAN SILVER BAND INSTRU-
V	MENTS: ALSO PIANOS AND
I	ORGANS, OR ANY ARTICLE IN
t	THE “LINE, OF MUSICAL MER-
J	CHANDISE. T GENERAL NORTH-
J	WESTERN ^AGENTS FOR THE
I	STECKiPEANO AND STANDARD
F	ORGANS QUALITY GUARANTEED.
•	CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS
5	FURNISHED FREE. CORRESPOND*	ENCE INVITED.
I	156 STATEfST.*
!'	'^CHICAGO?
Go to HENRY HELLER, THE CHAMPION Barber and Hair-Dresser, 87 MICHIGAN ST.
Work done to satisfaction. Give me a call.
1776 MUSIC BOOHS. 1876
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
All the prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection, well harmonized, and with piano (or organ) accompaniment. Every American needs a copy of such a book as this, and the Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this Centennial year-
Contents:
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner. Our Flag is there.
Red, White and Blue. Yankee Doodle.
To thee, O Country. Columbia the Gem. Watch on the Rhine. Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green. St. Patrick’s Day. Russian National Hymn.
God save the Queen.
Rule Brittania.
Roast Beef of Old England. Men of Harlech. [Welch]. Partant pour Syrie.
Marseilles Hymfi.
Garibaldi Hymn.
King Oscar. [Swedish.]
- Campbell’s are Cornin’.
Bruce’s Address.
King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn. Austrian “	“
Piice in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards 50 cents; Paper, 40 cents.
Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” • (§1.50) in “ Father Kemp’s Old Folks Concert Tunes.” Tourjec’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and in Sheet Music, Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c. *
CENTENNIAL HYMN
as sung at the Opening Ceremonies in Philadelphia. Words by Whittier. Music By I. R. Paine. In 4 parts, for Mixed Voices. Price in Sheet Music form, 30 cts. In octavo form for Choruses, 10 cts. No celebration this year will be complete without the singing of this magnificent Hymn.
Centennial, Machinery, Horticultural, Memorial, and Agricultural Marches, each 50 cts; Washington’s Old (40 cts), and New (GO cts) Marches. Martha Washington’s Waltz [75 cts] and March. [50 cts]. Grand March, by Downing [GO cts]. Centennial Waltzes by Fliege [75 cts], and Crobe’s Medly of National Airs [75 cts]; all have Splendid Illustrated Titles ! and the best of music.
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
An elegant and attractive volume, contains the National Songs of this and 12 other countries, in convenient form for Solo or Chorus singing. In Paper 40 cts. Boards 50 cts.
Camilla Collegensia.	(cioth, §3.00; cut, §4.00).
New, Enlarged Edition. All the famous College Songs, forming the wittiest, most entertaining, musical and classical collection of genial Songs and Glees for social singing ever brought together.
OLIVEB TDTTSOET & CO.,
BOSTON.
J. E. KITSON & CO., CHAS. H. KITSON & CO. Successors io Lee & Walker,	711 Broadway, YORK,
riiila.
LYON & HEALY, Cliicago.