< Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disoe quasi semper victLirxis ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 6, 1879.	Number 14.
E. de M.*
BY THE BEV. MATTHEW BUSSELL, 8. J., AUTHOB OB “EMMANUEL.”
“ Child of Mary.”—Name of honor, Prouder far than kingly crown— God Himself to win that title
From His heavenly throne came down.
He, the First-born Child of Mary, Calls us to His Mother’s side, Shares with us His dearest treasure : “Mother, ’twas for these I died.”
O Immaculate, unfallen,	,
Tarnished by no breath of sin !
Vet I dare to call thee “Mother,” Open, Mother, let me in!
Thou of Mercy’s self art Mother, And thy heart is meek and mild;
Open wide thy arms and take me As a mother takes her child.
God forgive those erring Christians Who would spurn the tender name
Which with joy, at Christ’s own bidding, Mary’s loving children claim.	.
“ Lo, your Mother! ” said He, dying;
Yet some coldly turn away.
Ah! forgive them, sweetest Mother! For they know not what they say.
‘1 Child of Mary. ” May my feelings,
Thoughts, words, deeds, and heart’s desires, All befit a lowly creature
Who to such high name aspires.
Ne’er shall sin (for sin could only) From my sinless Mother sever—
Mary’s child till death shall call me, Child of Mary then forever.
—Ave Maria.
• These initials are appended to their signature by many Enfants de Marie.
—The notion that character is spontaneous is held by most people in the early part of their lives, and is wrong. When they discover this, nine-tenths change to the other extreme. That is wrong, too. Hosts of young men think that their character will form of itself, and that they will necessarily become better as they grow older. Hosts of old men believe that their character is fixed, and that it is impossible for them to become better. Such beliefs are foolish. People are also wrong in thinking that they can put ofi their bad traits and put on good traits. The old failures cannot be thus transformed, but out of the old habits new ones can be formed.}	_____
Voltaire.
BY 2EQUTEAS.
AS A LEADER OF PUBLIC OPINION.
Concerning the influence which Voltaire exerted over society, his age and his country, it is a matter of considerable difficulty to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion. “ He has not seen all that he has done, but he has done all that we now see,”—such is the judgment passed upon him by one of his biographers during the French Revolution. This decision has been generally acquiesced in, and is constantly quoted as a text for either extravagant praise or censure. But it is too exaggerated an estimate of the influence wielded by Voltaire. Thank Heaven, it is not given to any one man, however great his genius, to mould the minds of his fellow-beings like potter’s clay, and to trace out for them like a master the pathway of their destiny. In the march of events there is something foreordained and necessary, which no human power can create or destroy,—and there is also something spontaneous, which depends on the free will of man.
For this reason, the actions of men are always circumscribed by these two elements—the one which comes from God, and the other residing in every human being— the one which God foreordains without interfering with the liberty of man, and the other fickle and capricious, which can obey or resist the impulse it receives, but can never be entirely destroyed. The career of every great man is thus to a considerable extent influenced and controlled by circumstances. “Men of great and stirring minds, who are destined to mould the age in which they live, must first mould themselves upon it,” says Channing; it is, therefore, incorrect to suppose that any individual has the power to create the spirit of the age in which his lot has cast him. Men can govern their times only by being of their times, and men of genius are not so much the creators of the ideas which move the masses as the ablest exponents of the ideas with which the masses are already to a certain extent penetrated. Had the movement for Catholic emancipation begun a century earlier, is it probable that even an O’Connell would have carried it to a successful issue? Certainly not. And why? Simply because the idea of religious liberty had not as yet taken deep enough root in the minds of the English nation. Had the anti-slavery agitation begun a half century earlier, is it probable the eloquence of a Wendell Phillips, a Sumner, and a Seward would have been crowned with success? Certainly not. And why? Simply because the masses had not as yet been educated up to the broad Catholic idea of equality and fraternity of men.
Why was it that Luther was enabled to_work so extraor-

208	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
dinary a revolution in the Europe of the 16th century? Because, in consequence of reasons and events which it is useless to mention here, the time had come when the old time-honored structure of the Middle Ages was to be over, thrown. Peoples had accustomed themselves to murmur against the guardianship of Rome, and the burdens'which accompanied dependence; like prodigal children, they demanded to be allowed to enjoy their inheritance. Germany, especially, was disturbed by restless longings. A seditious blood ran through her veins; she still dreamed of John Huss and Barbarossa, and from beyond the Alps looked upon Italy and the Papacy with hatred in her heart, insult on her lips, and the sword in her hand. Then indeed anyone listening to the signs of the times might have heard the rumblings of the coming storm, and might have predicted that some great catastrophe was at hand. A century earlier, Martin Luther would either never have attempted to dogmatize at all, or, if he had attempted his revolt, would now be known as the precursor and not the father of the Reformation. It would be well, therefore, to remember that Voltaire was placed in a position somewhat similar, and this will assist us in appreciating the influence which he wielded over society in the 18th century. When he was born, the old Huguenot spirit of sedition was still fermenting in the south of France; and the revocation of the Edict of Nantes and the persecution of Louis XIV’s mounted dragoons, instead of crushing it out, had merely added to its secret energy. Morality had departed from the habits of men, and, as a natural and inevitable consequence, faith was fast dying out in their hearts.
The austerities which marked the last years of the great autocrat’s long reign forced the dissolute and imperious to keep within certain bounds—to maintain an exterior though hypocritical reserve and moderation; but at the death of Louis all classes threw off the mask, and the Regency was inaugurated ’mid scenes of blasphemous riot and profligacy at which one dare not even hint. From this cesspool of iniquity, these saturnalia of impiety and debauchery, naturally flowed the stream of corruption which swept society before it in the 18th century—a society which, to use the words of the eloquent Lacordaire, knew only how to wield the arm of sarcasm against God and of shamelessness against man.
Voltaire was at first merely a pupil in the school of blasphemy and crime, but a pupil of extraordinary parts. His age first moulded him to its likeness, and then he reacted upon it. And truly may it be said of him that he repaid with interest all the lessons of immorality which had been taught him. Atheism, rationalism, materialism were in the air of Holland and England when he visited these two countries; after breathing the tainted atmosphere he returned to his native land, his training completed, and ready to disseminate throughout France and Europe the poisonous ideas which he had made his own. With what success he labored, the history of the 18th century can tell. Skepticism and infidelity had previously been merely points of speculation among the learned. By Voltaire, impiety was systematized and popularized. He was the corypheus of the new philosophy by which humanity was to be regenerated. Behind him the forces of incredulity were marshalled in close order for the death-grapple with Christianity. The tireless activity, the frantic spirit of hate which animated the captain seemed to extend throughout the ranks. Every tradititon, every belief which for cen-1
furies Europe and mankind had held sacred became the butt of ridicule and scorn. Arguments forgotten since the days of Porphyry and Celsus were rescued from oblivion r to pander to the anti-Christian spirit of the day and to stock the intellectual arsenals of the Tom Paines and Ingersolls of the future. The Bible became the text v for licentious ribaldry. Obscenity in its coarsest forms, blasphemous impiety ran riot. Julian the Apostate was for a brief season rescued from the infamy in which for fourteen centuries he had been wallowing, to be held up as the «• model of philosophers, of statesmen, and of monarchs. To be able to sneer at everything holy, and trample under foot every virtuous sentiment, was the only passport to consideration and distinction in the society over which Voltaire was king. A generation sat at his feet, formed by his lessons and penetrated with his spirit. “Mahomet,” says Lacordaire, “ had founded; Luther had reformed; Voltaire and the eighteenth century aspired to a work yet more complete—they aspired to the transformation of mankind. Up to that time mankind had existed upon religion ; the eighteenth century designed to break asunder < their alliance, and to establish everywhere the reign of pure reason. Reason they declared to be one, universal, and peaceful; while religions, the fruit of unaccountable dreams, increase in every age the long list of their varieties, and turn the world into a vast battle-field. Pagans against Christians, Catholics against Protestants, Lutherans against Calvinists, Greeks, Arminians, Mahometans, Hindoos—races without number which drag humanity from side to side in their bloody swaddling clothes. Is it i not time to restore or to give unity to mankind ? Such was the idea of the eighteenth century, and by very rare fortune there met together to put it into execution a pleiad of superior minds,—poets, historians, moralists, romancewriters, lawyers—men eminent in all kinds of literary and scientific creations, capable of destroying and building up.
So many minds were never before brought together in one accord; and the fortunate age which produced them, see- . ing their concord and their ardor, was able to assure itself ' that a really providential work had been confided to it, and that it would soon behold its chimerical accomplishment. *' Meanwhile, what does the Church ? The Church seems to grow pale. Bossuet no longer pronounces the oracle; Fenelon sleeps in his harmonious memory; Pascal has broken his pen in the tomb; Bourdaloue no longer speaks before kings; Massillon has thrown to the winds of the last century the last sounds of Christian eloquence; Spain, Italy, France—in all the Catholic world. I listen, but no -«> powerful voice answers to the lamentations of the outraged Christ. His enemies increase daily. Thrones mingle in their conjurations. Catharine II, from the steppes of Crimea, after a conquest upon the sea or upon solitude, writes tender letters to the fortunate geniuses of the moment. Frederick the Great shakes hands with them 1 between two victories; Joseph II comes to visit them, and deposes the majesty of the holy Roman Empire upon the threshold of their academies. What say you of this ? What say you of the silence of God? Already the age marks the hour of His fall—to-morrow they will bury > Christ. Once more, what say you of it? It is true, God : keeps silence. Until then, He had never left to error its ) „ total development. He had always destroyed it, at one ; time or another, before it became dominant. This time He * j lets it work even to the end. Let us wait in our turn, and	J
even before the end, let us observe in morals what were	"
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.’’	209
s
the effects of the triumph of Voltaire and pure reason.” Survey all the ranks of the society which the new X philosophy had penetrated. I again quote Lacordaire:
“Behold the palace of the most Christian kings: in the chamber where St. Louis had slept, Sardanapalus was , stretched. Stamboul had visited Versailles and found it-
self at home there. Women lifted up from the lowest dregs of the world sported with the crown of France; descendants of the crusaders peopled, with their adulation, the dishonored ante-chambers, and as they passed, kissed the robe of the reigning courtezan, bearing from the throne into their houses the vices which they had adored ; contempt for the holy laws of marriage, the imitation of * the saturnalia of Rome, seasoned by a degree of impiety
which the familiars of Nero had never known. Instead of the ploughshare and the sword, a depraved youth knew only how to wield the arms of sarcasm against God, and of shamelessness against man. Behind them crawled along the middle classes, more or less imitators of this royal corruption, and dragging in their train their lost progeny, as behind the powerful kings of solitude smaller and lower animals are seen, who follow them to lick up their share of the blood which has been spilt. At last the day of God dawned. The old Frank people revolted at so much ignominy; it stretched out its righthand; it shook that society, fallen into the apostacy of virtue, and cast it to the ground with one shock, to the puerile astonishment of all those kings who flattered pure reason. The scaffold succeeded the throne, gathering without distinction all that was brought to it—kings, queens, the aged, children, young women, priests, philosophers,—innocent and guilty,—all enveloped in the solidarity of their age and in its triumph over Jesus Christ. A last scene completed the reprisals *■	of God. Pure reason willed to celebrate its nuptials, for it
had only celebrated its betrothal on the scaffold; it determined to advance—to press forward even to its nuptials. The doors of the cathedrals were opened by its all-powerful orders; an innumerable crowd.overran the sacred edifice, conducting to the high altar the divinity which for sixty years had been preparing for them. Shall I pronounce its *■ name? Antiquity had had images which exposed depravity to the worship of nations, but here it was the reality, the living marble of public flesh and blood. I hold my peace; I allow that great people to adore the last divinity of the world, and celebrate without mysteries the nuptials of pure reason.”
Such is the appreciation of Voltaire’s work and influence by one of the most high-souled and eloquent men of the ninteenth century. Voltaire and Rousseau laid down the premises by sapping the foundations of religion, of morality, and of government, and all the horrors of the the French Revolution were only the natural consequences drawn by such logicians as a corrupt and infuriated mob headed by Marat, Danton, and Robespierre. Voltaire and his fellow-philosophers had laid it down as an unquestionable political truth that humanity would never be regener-\ ated, that the world never would be at ease till the last king had been strangled with the bowels of the last priest; the Montagnards and Jacobins of ’93 sought merely to illustrate the truth of a theory which their demi-god had taught them. His career and its results are but- another proof of the fact which all history demonstrates, viz.: * that an age of corruption and impiety is necessarily followed and expiated by an age of violence and bloodshed. The'age of Louis XV has been stigmatized as an ocean of
filth,—that of Louis XVI was an ocean of blood. “If I had one hundred thousand men at my command,” wrote Voltaire, “ I know what I would do with them.” Hundreds of thousands of men his ideas have had at their command, and France and Europe to-day know well, and to their cost, what has been done with them. Within eighty years, a reign of terror and a commune, marked by atrocities to which we could scarcely seek a parallel in pagan Rome during the days of Marius and Sylla—a hostile army three times at the gates of Paris, and nine violent changes of government—prove how well the lessons which he taught have been retained, and ought also to prove that not until such time as the pernicious nature of the influence which he wielded, and still wields, is properly recognized, need France expect to take her rightful station amongst the nations of Christendom.
William Wordsworth.
BY F. W. BLOOM.
In the chronicle of meditative and descriptive poets which crowns the eighteenth century, the name of William Wordsworth shines with peculiar brightness. The extreme youth at which the fire of his genius revealed itself and shed around him its rays of light, and the peculiarities of his ideas, serve to render him remarkable.
Born in the County of Cumberland in the year 1770, Wordsworth was under the disadvantage of being cotemporary with the mighty genius of both Byron and Scott This fact, no doubt, contributed not a little to his temporary obscurity; but he has achieved a lasting fame, and has become celebrated as the founder of what is called the Lake School of Poetry.
Wordsworth’s brilliant genius began to display itself, at the early age of thirteen, in attempts at verse which were but the precursors of an inexhaustible supply of harmonious productions that followed with amazing rapidity. He passed a quiet, studious life until 1787, when he was matriculated as a student of St John’s College, Cambridge. While there be gave his first productions to the public.
An enthusiastic admirer of nature in her purest forms, he made a pedestrian excursion ou the continent of Europe, and gave his readers the benefit of his observations in a poem entitled, “Descriptive Sketches in Verse.” Subsequently he wrote an epistle in verse entitled “ An Evening Walk.” Both of these early productions are filled with beautiful, picturesque descriptions. A few years afterwards he published his “Lyrical Ballads,” intended to introduce a new species of poetry. In accordance with the new system, they were written upon the humblest subjects and in the plainest and most simple language, hi this laudable effort he was unsuccessful, and at the time much ridicule was directed against him. With an especial want of mercy did Lord Byron satirize him in the following caustic lines:
“Next comes the dull disciple of the school, The mild apostle from poetic rule, The simple Wordsworth, framer of a lay As soft as evening in his favorite May, Who warns his friend to shake off toil and trouble, And quit his books for fear of growing double;
Who, both of precept and example, shows That prose Is verse, and verse is merely prose; Convincing all by demonstration plain,
210	:THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Poetic souls delight in prose insane, And Christmas stories tortured into rhyme Contain the essence of the true sublime.”
In his finer productions his genius is indisputably characterized by a union of deep feeling with profound thought, and a power of observation which makes him familiar with all the loveliness and wonders of the world within and around us, and an imagination capable of inspiring all objects with poetic life. His “Intimations of Immortality” contains many brilliant thoughts, beautifully expressed, as for instance:
“But for the first affections, Those shadowy recollections Which, be they what they may, Are yet the fountain-light of all our day, Are yet a master-light in all our seeing; Uphold us, cherish, and have power to make Our noisy years seem moments in the being Of the eternal silence; truths that wake
To perish never.”
His language is eloquent, lofty, and impassioned, where he does not attempt to extend the language of ordinary life to poetical subjects. Brownson's Review at one time passed the following severe comment upon Wordsworth: “ He has rendered a service to English poetry by avoiding the turgid diction of the feeble imitators of Pope and Dryden, and by recalling our poets to the naturalness and simplicity of expression which comport so well with the genius of our language; but, he has done our poetry an equal disservice by rendering it tame and feeble. Wordsworth, like all English poets, not of the first order, was too fond of what is called descriptive poetry. Of course, we do not exclude description from poetry, and all great poets from Homer downwards abound in descriptions; but their descriptive passages are not introduced for the sake of descriptions. Wordsworth’s descriptions are long and wearisome, though no doubt exact; but they serve only a descriptive purpose. They heighten no effect, illustrate no truth, bring home no thought or sentiment.”
It is with difficulty that we can reconcile the enthusiastic praise of Wordsworth’s productions by some critics, with the low estimate placed upon them by others. This is due to the fact that his different works vary exceedingly in style. At the commencement of his career, his ambition was to imitate Pope or Spenser. Subsequently, his “Lyrical Ballads” were remarkable for their simplicity and humbleness; and immediately after, in direct violation of the principles he had just assumed, he attempts lofty themes, appropriate imagery, and sometimes the turgid utterances which remind the reader of Milton. His patriotic and liberal sonnets are acknowledged to be among the finest in the English language. Consequently, it is absolutely necessary that before passing any judgment on Wordsworth we should consider the style we would criticize. In 1843, he was appointed Poet Laureate, after which he retired to enjoy a private and secluded life. Full of honors, and at a ripe old age, he passed away calmly and peacefully in the year 1850.
—To be a safe teacher of morals, one must not only preach, but practice; for the habitual exercise of virtue is one of the first constituents in making up the qualities necessary to a teacher of the truth. We see spots on the sun and moon which we should never regard on a housewall or a hillock.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Francis Parkman, the historian, is gathering material for a biography of Montcalm.
—The Detroit News says Theodore Thomas expresses contempt for Cincinnati’s musical culture.
—The author of “Maryland, My Maryland,” Mr. J. R. Randall, is clerk of the Senate investigating committee now in New Orleans.	'
—The author of “ Baby Mine ” is reported to have received an offer of §5,000 never to write another song. This is philanthropy in the right direction.
—An eminent statistician has figured out that 97,790 persons die every day. We should like to see one day devoted exclusively to pedestrians and Gneco-Roman wrestlers.
—Mr. Kinglake, the historian of the Crimean war, was knocked down in Paris by a passing omnibus and painfully injured. He has not yet completed his great work, being now engaged on the sixth volume.
—The last number of the Revue Bibliographique Univer-seHe contains an article by Signor Henry Stevenson on the Abbey of Grottaferrata and the works of the Basilian Monks, and • especially concerning the recent studies of Father Rccchi.
—The new organ in the Stewart Cathedral at Garden City will be amongst the largest and most remarkable in the world. The chimes can be played by the organist. Different parts of the instrument will be united by electricity and controlled by hydraulic power.
—It is announced that the celebrated composer Verdi is engaged in setting to music the Pater Noster and Ave Maria of Dante. The first piece is for a chorus of five voices, without accompaniment. The second is a melody for mezzo soprano, with accompaniment of six stringed instruments.	■
—A sensible exchange says that the only trouble with Mr. Tennyson’s new one-act comedy is that it is one act too long. Speaking of Tennyson reminds us that, in consequence of the expense attendant upon the Afghan war, the Queen recently reduced his salary as Poet Laureate from §75 to §60 a month.
—The proposed statue to the late Cardinal Cullen, to be executed by a resident sculptor, Mr. Thomas Farrell, at a cost of £2,000, is to be placed in the portico of Clonliffe College. The residue of the fund collected will be applied in founding a college, to be named after the late Cardinal, in connection with the Catholic University.
—On a hill near Ware, Herts, England, a pillar has been erected to mark the spot where, in June, 1785, Thomas Clarkson resolved to devote himself to the abolition of slavery. Miss Merivale, daughter of the Dean of Ely, last month unveiled this memorial, and her father told how, forty-five years ago, Clarkson told him about his famous resolve on that very spot.
—The widow of Charles Dickens, the novelist, died at her residence, in London on the morning of Nov. 22d. Mrs. Dickens was the daughter of George Hogarth, a writer for one of the London papers. She married Charles Dickens in April, 1836, bore him a large family of children, but was separated from him 1858 for causes never fully revealed, but called at the time incompatibility of temper.
—According to the investigations of a Russian professor, Dr. Monassein, singing is an excellent means of preventing consumption, and for the development and strengthening of the chest it is more efficient than even gymnastic exercises. The Professor has examined 220 singers varying in age from 9 to 53 years, and found that the chest is greater and stronger among them than among persons of any other occupation.
—Duke Charles Theodore, of Bavaria, brother to the Empress of Austria, who a few years ago obtained the degree of Doctor of Medicine, has just published a work entitled .-“Beitraege zur Anatomieund Physiologic des Glass Kor-pers ” (Essays on the Anatomy and Physiology of Glass Bodies.) This work, excellent by the erudition and scientific research which it shows, treats of one of the most
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTICS	211
I : difficult points connected with, microscopic investigations ’	of the human eye.
—Under the title “ Studies in Fermentation ” Macmillan & Co. have just published a volume which manufacturers of beer ought to be, and drinkers of it will certainly be, interested in. It treats of the diseases of this beverage, their „ causes, and the means of preventing them. Should the 2 work be likely to have a large circulation among people I in general, brewers might find it to their ultimate profit to buy up the entire edition. The work is translated from ' the French of L. Pasteur, and has several plates to illustrate the appearance of diseased beer under the microscope.
*■	—“ We have received ” (says John Boyle O’Reilly—him-
self a poet, and editor of the Boston Pilot,) from the venerable Quaker poet the following letter characteristic of his kind heart and broad humanity:—“Danvers, 11th mo., t 20th, 1879. John Boyle O’Reilly, Esq.—Will thee do me ’ the favor to send the enclosed §10 to Sister Mary Francis Clare, Convent of Poor Clares, Kenmare, County Kerry, -	Ireland, for the suffering poor in her neighborhood. I
>	only wish I could do more; but there are many calls nearer
home which I must heed to the very extent of my ability. Thy friend,—John G-. Whittier.”
—The statue of Burns, which the Scotchmen of New York propose to place in Central Park, has been cast in v . Edinburg, and a replica of it will be erected in Dundee.
The poet is represented reclining, with the upper part of the figure supported by the stump of a tree, and the face fixed in apparent contemplation of the sky. This . figure will be a worthy companion piece to the Scott * statue, which has been a feature of Central Park for several years. A site for a statue of O’Connell was set apart there a long time ago, but alas! the statue itself is still : merely a vision. And there are probably a hundred Irishmen in New York to one Scotchman.—Boston Pilot.
’ _	—Few authors, if any, have lived as Ruskin has, to see
the first editions of their works advance to three and four times the original prices. The rarity of first editions in ' part explains this; but only in part, for it is by no means an excessively rare pleasure to see in certain New York book-stores copies of these original issues. Complete sets ► are, however, hard to get- Even in London, where first editions are more numerous than here, a perfect set of the “Modern Painters,” “Seven Lamps,” and “Stones of Venice ” is worth the sum of $509. J. W. Bouton has at present a complete ’series of the original editions, * which besides,the three best-known works comprises also .	“ Turner’s Harbors of England,” “ The Two Paths,”
“Elements of Drawing,” and “Lectures on Architecture and Painting.”	.
—Mrs. Kate Bowes-Watson, who is a daughter of Charles Lever, writes from Venice that the life of her father, by W. J. Fitzpatrick, which was published a few months ago, was not only written without the sanction of his children and executors, but that it abounds in errors
x and misstatements. The author, she says, had scarcely any personal knowledge of her father, and the sketch of his
5 /Character is “ much more of a caricature than a portrait.” The account of her brother’s death is “ absolutely the reverse
► of the truth, and is a cruel slander.” Her brother died, she says, in her own house in Florence, having been care- fully tended by herself and her husband, and the story of ■ his death in a strange land, unknown and friendless, and his exposure in the morgue, “is utter fiction.” Mrs.
r Bowes- Watson adds that she writes on her own behalf and that of her sisters, one of whom is in India, “ to repudiate
1 all responsibility for such an egregiously incorrect work, and to add that steps will be taken to give to the world a ► really trustworthy biography of my father, together with selections from his correspondence.”
, *	—A wise man will never rust out. As long as he can
i	breathe he will be doing for himself, his neighbor, or for
rt	posterity. Who is old ? Not the man of energy, not the
| day-laborer in science, art, or benevolence, but he only ' < who suffers his energies to waste away, and the springs of life to become motionless, on whose hands the hours drag . heavily, and to whom all things wear the garb of gloom.
Scientific Notes.
—Charcoal is said to be a sure cure for bums. By laying a piece of cold charcoal upon the bum the pain subsides immediately. By leaving the charcoal on one hour the wound is healed, as has been demonstrated on several occasions.
—MM. Paul Magne and Henri, mail and telegraphic inspectors of France, lately came to America to study the U. S. postal system. It is rather singular that they should have to come here for the greatest improvements: the present postal system originated in Austria.
—At the ball of the Army of the Cumberland in the national capitol some 1,000 gas jets that had not been used for 11 years were lighted. About 11 o’clock all the jets in the upper portion of the rotunda went out instantly. Mr. Rogers, the capitol electrician, quickly ascended to the dome and turned off all the stopcocks. Fortunately a valve in the supply pipe had acted automatically, shutting off the flow of gas; otherwise, and without Mr. Rogers’s promptitude, there might have been an explosion which would have precipitated the dome of the capitol in fragments upon the assembly.
—Astronomers declare that the vermilion-colored spot now noticeable on the planet Jupiter is an affection of the planetary body itself and not of its atmosphere. There is no record of a similar phenomenon having been previously observed, and the explanation generally given is that it indicates that some great disturbances are in progress within the planetary substance. We may obtain some notion of the extent of the disturbance by noting that the size of the spot with reference to the whole area of Jupiter’s surface is as large as the whole of Europe is with reference to the surface of the earth.
—Mr. Kingzett finds that the sanitary properties of the eucalyptus are not owing to its drainage powers, but to the oil which is evaporated from its leaves. The oil is practically identical with the oil of turpentine derived from pine trees, and with most of the so-called essential oils or perfumes. All these oils, when subjected to the action of atmospheric oxygen, produce peroxide of hydrogen and a number of camphoraceous substances having marked antiseptic characteristics. What is true of the eucalyptus is true also of the pine, and on an immensely larger scale, for pine forests are distributed freely over both hemispheres, and the oil of turpentine, which is a natural product of the pine, undergoes the same chemical changes in the atmosphere as the oil of the eucalyptus.
—A poor Hungarian Jew brought a black pearl to a Pesth jeweler, lately, and begged him to value it.and give him what he could for it. He was told that the pearl was of great value, and that he had better take it to Bieder-mann of Vienna, which he did, and was naturally asked where he had obtained possession of such a rarity. The Jew answered that he had got it from the valet of the late Count Louis Batthyani. Upon inquiry it turns out that this is one of the three black pearls, which more than 105 years ago was stolen from the English Crown, and which were for a long time vainly sought for, it being at that period supposed that these were the only three black pearls in existence. How Count Batthyani came by this one is not explained. The British Government, it is added, has bought the black pearl from the Jew for 20,000 florins, about $8,000.
—Prof. Stockbridge, of the Amherst Agricultural College, has been making some experiments as to the origin of the dew, and has arrived at conclusions somewhat different from those generally accepted. It is usually held that dew is the moisture of the air condensed through contact with objects of a lower temperature, and that it does not form till radiation has reduced the temperature of the earth. Prof. Stockbridge asserts, however, that dew is the result of condensation by the air of warm vapor which rises from the soil, and he embodies the result of his experiments in these propositions: 1. The vapor of the soil is much warmer at night than the air, and would be condensed by it. 2. Vapor from the soil is soon diffused and equalized in the whole atmosphere, but in the largest proportion when evaporation is taking place near the surface of the soil, and,


212
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

other things being equal, plants nearest the earth have the most dew. 8. Dew under hay-cocks, boards, and like objects on the ground could receive it from no other source.
—It has been for years a wish of Sir Henry Bessemer to possess a telescope at least equal in power to any hitherto constructed. He also wished that, despite its enormous size, it should be so placed and mounted that it could be conveniently and comfortably used, and should be capable of being directed at will to any part of the heavens without either waiting for the earth’s motion or for the assistance of some one who should guide the telescope’s motions for the observer. With this object, he has designed a new kind of telescope, such that the observer can either sit or stand, at the centre of the floor of the observatory, looking straight before him into the eye-piece, which is placed five and a half feet above the floor. The observing room, with floor, windows and dome, revolves and keeps pace automatically with any and every motion of the telescope, notwithstanding that the latter is wholly detached from the moving parts of the building, and stands firmly in the centre of a massive foundation of concrete and stone work, from which the upper end of the telescope reaches an altitude of forty-five feet when the tube is vertical. The plans include also improvements in the optical parts of the construction of the telescope, and propose to give the true parabolic form to the reflector by means of novel mechanism, admitting of a degree of mathematical precision never yet obtained in the case of large mirrors.
Exchanges.
—The Philadelphia Catholic Standard published in its last number (Nov. 29) an account of “An Actual Occurence,” that everyone, young and old, should read. Those who do not wish to subscribe for the paper for a year should at least send six cents for the number we speak of. The article in question will amply repay many a family for five years’ subscription to the Standard.
—The Beacon, from the Boston University, is a new visitor to our exchange table. The matter of the present number is mostly of a local and ‘ sociable ’ order. There is a well-written, but very brief, essay on the author of “ The Fairie Queene,” and three or four pieces of poetry much better tnan the common run. The exchange column is lively and interesting. The School of Theology opens a department in the present number.
—We understand that our highly esteemed friend, D. A. Clarke, of ’70, has had a month’s furlough from his editorial duties on the Catholic Columbian, and that he is shortly to be elevated to the priesthood. We congratulate our friend, if this be the case. He has proved himself a first-class editor, and we have not the least doubt that he will also make an excellent priest. His is a heart in the right place, and his head is level. None of the Catholic papers has been so much quoted as the Columbian, a sure evidence that brain and talent were used to good purpose in its pages. Every Catholic family in the Columbus diocese should subscribe for the Columbian. Our best wishes are with it and its genial editor.
—The Catholic Sentinel, of Portland Oregon, which has lately favored us with an exchange, is one of the ablest of our Catholic papers. The various departments ol news, etc., are edited with care, the editorials are both scholarly and spicy, and when the Sentinel’s “ funny man ” comes out he is all spice. He reminds us a good deal of that ancient hero oi racy stories, Q. K Philander Doesticks, P. B., (which, spelled out, is, we presume, Queer Kuss, Philander Doeslicks, Perlect Brick), only that the Sentinel’8 funny man is a “queerer kuss ” still, as well as a more “ perfect brick.” We hope the funny man will favor us oftener with his lucubrations in the Sentinel, that is, if he did not die in the Sisters’ hospital, whence his last letter was written. We will have a double row of buuuns sewed on, if necessary, so that we shall not have to visit the tailor-shop every time we are through with one of his papers.
—The Chimes is the title of a new illustrated weekly for boys and girls, the first number of which has just appeared in Baltimore, Md. This is, we believe, the first weekly publication of its kind for children, in this country, and if the succeeding numbers are as unexceptionally good as the one now before us, we have not the least hesitancy in predicting the greatest success for the venture. Why should not the little folk have their weekly paper as well as older people? The short and excellent moral stories, and especially the illustrations, will prove a useful attraction, and the seeds thus sown in the virgin soil will have attained sufficient growth to bear the storms that will be met in after years. For this reason we could wish to see more of these children’s papers—and published every week, not monthly ones, as at present. AU these children’s monthlies should be turned into weeklies. The low price of The Chimes ($1 a year) places it within reach of all. Subscriptions should be addressed to The Chimes Publishing Co., P.- 0. Box 34, Baltimore, Md.
—We have not had the pleasure of a visit from our live contemporary, the Lafayette Sunday Times, of late. We are at a loss tor the cause, but we hope ere long to see its bright face again. The Sunday Times has always some good things to regale folks with, and is sometimes brimming over with tnem. We understand it is under the editorial management of Fred Williams, of ’67; if so, we congratulate our friend on his brilliant success as an editor. Il is not often our good luck to take up such an interesting paper for general topics as his, and through it we sometimes hear news of some of our many friends in Lafayette. The Sunday Times, seems to be a sworn enemy to corrupt politicians in general, and the way it scoops out the rottenness is a terror to evfl-doers, be they Democrats or Republicans. That is right. The greatest enemies of the country, now as always, are the demagogical politicians, for they invariably manage to make much ado about nothing and keep the country in a ferment, straining at a gnat after swallowing the camel, hair, hide, bones and all.

kg«
&

8
?■

New Publications.
Meditations and Contemplations on the Sacred Passion' op Our Lobd Jesus Uhbist, and on the Blessed Sacrament, etc. Translated from the Spanish of the Ven. Luis of Granada, O. P., by a Member of the Order of Merey, New York: The Cathode Publication Society, Co., 9 Barclay Street, 1877.	'
To those who are already acquainted with any one of the many ascetic works of the Venerable Father Louis of Granada—and his “ Temporal and Eternal ” is known to many, and should be known by everybody—it needs but to speak ot’ a new translation of other of his works in | order to guarantee a rapid sale for it. For over three centuries his works have enjoyed a high reputation in -L Europe. They were recommended in an express Brief by Pope Gregory XLU; St. Charles Borromeo preferred them M to all other spiritual writmgs, and St. Francis of Sales advised eyery priest to make them his second Breviary, ff. Throughout the Spanish dominions an Indulgence of one hundred and forty days has been granted forever to every-" one who reads, or hears read, any chapter, paragraph, or sentence, from the works of Father Louis of Granada. The translation of this little book of Meditations is from the. hand of one who is herself an author of much repute and a translator of many excellent works excellently rendered into English.
—We have been favored by the Post-office Department with a copy of the late Postal Laws and Regulations, in which much imormation for the public is given. Special attention is called to the importance of properly addressing mail matter. For instance, letters addressed—New York City,—New York City, N. Y. or merely New York, are held to be unmailable, and may be sent to the Dead Letter Office. A post-office and State are required, as, New York, N. Y. Papers not fully prepaid are also unmailable. It appears that many postmasters violate this law al mailing-offices, which causes much inconvenience, and double postage on delivery.
J
THE NOkTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
213
“1
-ft
College Gossip.
—The Theologues at Oberlin have two clubs for extemporaneous speaking.
—The trustees of Columbia College have concluded not to yield to the pressure for co-education.
—W. H. Vanderbilt has given §100,000 to Vanderbilt University for a science hall aud a gymnasium.
—Bethany College, W. Va., was partially destroyed by fire on the 23d of October. Estimated loss, $30,000.
—$5,000,000, says The Earlhamite, are spent annually in Europe by American students for educational purposes.
—And now the average Junior remarks to his companion, 11 Es ist sehr halt” with a nonchalance which indicates the utmost familiarity with the German language.— Yale Courant.
—Amherst College is in luck again, having just received as an endowment for its presidency $55,000 from Chester W. Chapin of Springfield; and a gift of $50,000 is also expected from the Stone estate in Malden.—Oberlin Review.
—In 1800, when Bowdoin College was organized, there were 8 students. One building was used as recitation room, chapel, and presidential mansion, the president being in the habit of warning the students of chapel time by rapping on the stairs with his cane.—Tripod.
—Of the 35 Seniors at Williams College, the University Quarterly says 15 are Congregationalists, 11 Presbyterians, 4 Episcopalians, 1 Methodist, 1 Quaker, and 2 Liberals. Two are to become lawyers, five physicians, nine ministers, and four teachers; four are to be business men, one is to be a journalist, and nine are still undecided.
—At Harvard, one-third of the class is lost before graduation, or 33J4 per cent. At Yale, about two-fifths of the class are left behind, or 40 per cent. At Columbia, the proportion varies between seven and nine-twentieths of the whole class, or between 35 and 40 per cent.—Spectator. At Notre Dame University, a proportion of nine-tenths are left behind.
—Cornell University has had its campus illuminated by electric light for a year past. There were two candles, on poles, but the latter have been taken down and the lights placed on the chapel spire. When the dome of the main building of the new University of Notre Dame is completed, the statue on its summit will be surmounted by a nimbus of electric light.
—Oberlin College has had a narrow escape from fire— supposed to have been originated by the carelessness of some member of the Senior class in blow-pipe analysis at the end of the morning’s recitation. The Review says that only the timely discovery of the fire saved the building. As it is, the loss is but trifling, but there will be no more blow-pipe work this term. A number of the Senior students lost their books and notes.	»
—The late trouble at Middlebury College, Vermont, took a serious turn. The students wished to have their own way about certain things and would not submit unless they got it. The Faculty then dismissed the entire body of students— Seniors, Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen—and ordered them to return to their homes and await the pleasure of the college authorities. Freedom at college is a good thing, but licentiousness is as bad for the student as it is annoying to the Faculty.
—E' gold medal for the highest scholarship and for the best 'examination for admission to the Freshman Class, was- taken by a Creek Indian, at Wooster University:— University Press. And yet it is said by some that the Indians cannot settle down and become civilized.
Full many a roll of pony leaves serene,
The dark, unfathomed, sleeves and text-books bear;
Full many a crib is born to blush unseen, Yet shed assistance, hidden by a chair.
—Acta Columbiana.
—An “Unanointed Jeremiah” sings the song of “Tough Beef! Tough Beef” in the Virginia University Magazine. The following is the refrain:
Tough beef! tough beef I tough beef I Tough beefl tough beef I
Tough beef! oh, toughest beef I
Nai ma dia!
Heu miserum I
Gott und himmel 1
Cospetto I
Corpo di Baccho I Sacre Bleu!
They should send that fellow West, to the land of young beeves and fadings. We would soon stuff his vest and cure him here.
—A prize of ten dollars is offered to that gentleman of the' Sophomore Class, at Evanston, who shall be judged by his classmates to have presented the best decorum during the year, the prize to be given during Commencement week of 1880.— University Press.
Notre Dame University has for several years given 35 gold medals annually for general deportment, besides a medal for politeness, etc., etc. We don’t like to draw invidious distinctions, but the medals at Notre Dame, unlike the Evanston prize, were given—not to quell disorderly outbreaks, which have never been seen here, but to excite a spirit of emulation in attaining polite and gentlemanly deportment.
Society Notes.
^The 9th regular meeting of the Society of the Guardian Angels was held Sunday evening, Nov. 22.
—The Euglossians tender a vote of thanks to Bro. Leopold, Mr. Evers, and members of Orchestra and Cornet Band for music furnished at their Entertainment, Dec 2d. jy—The 10th regular meeting of the Philopatrian Society 400k place Monday, Dec. 1st. Masters McPhillips and Livingston were elected members. Declamations were delivered by A. Vedder, N. Nelson, J. Start, W. Coghlin, H. Coghlin, O. Farrelly, J. Gordon, F. Becker, J. Simms, H. Dunn, J. Devitt, E. Gaines.
—The regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held on Wednesday evening Dec. 3d. The debate, “ Resolved that the Pardoning Power should not be vested in the Executive,” took place. Messrs. Brady and Rogers held the affirmative side of the question, while Messis. Solon and Reeves were on the negative.
! y—The 13th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place Nov. 29th. Various reports were read and adopted. Master H. Rose was elected to membership. Public .readers for the week are as follows; Masters W. McCarthy, G. Orr, J. A. Gibbons, W. Thompson, A. Mergentheim, E. Otis, and A. Caren.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Archconfratemity of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held Sunday evening, Nov. 30th. Visitors present were Very Rev. Father Granger, Bros. Francis and Philip. Father Granger made a brief address, and then the regular exercises were commenced. Master Elmer Otis gave an account of “ The Crusaders ” and Master J. A. Gibbons, told us about “ Advent.”
—The Columbians and Thespians gave a soiree dan-sante in Washington Hall, Saturday night. The most bewitching music was furnished by Clagget’s celebrated String Band. So enticing were the strains of the instruments that the grave Solon, the dignified “ General,” and the stitt-jointed Washingtonian found themselves whirling around in the dizzy mazes of the waltz before they knew where they were.
—The 16lh regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association (Minim Dep’t.) was held Saturday evening, Nov. 29th. It was decidedly one of the best and most interesting meetings of the year. Songs, declamations, and the reading ot comic selections were the order of the evening. Among those who declaimed, and evinced a marked improvement in delivery, were Masters C. McGrath, G. Woodson, G. Van Mourick, Frank Garrity, Leo Spalding, T. Van Mourick and A. Schmuckle. Several comic songs were sung by Masters J. Garrity, F. Farrelly, H. Snee, Joe. Courtney and G. Tourtilotte. Much merriment was caused by the singing of German songs by Masters J. Mattes and A. Schmuckle. The song sung in concert by Masters G. Tourtilotte, H. Snee and Joe. Courtney was capital, and was applauded to the echo.
214	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.]

Notre Dame, December 6, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Liter ary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the suceess of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Danae, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office of publil cation, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Christmas Holidays.
Among the necessary nuisances of the scholastic year, we suppose that the week’s interruption of classes at Christmas will soon figure. Any plan to dispense with these holidays would unquestionably meet with the hearty approval of the College authorities; but, for the present year at least, we suppose that they will have to be tolerated. So many students every year leave college to spend the holidays at home, that classes must necessarily he suspended; and when the absent ones return after the festivities of the week, their minds, for the first few days at least, are so apt to roll on the pleasures they have enjoyed that they are unfitted for serious work. Besides, it must be remembered that homesickness after Christmas is of a much more virulent type than the same disease in September. No matter, therefore, what the arrangements are, and no matter how early the absent ones return on the morning of the second of January, the Christmas vacation may be said to represent a break of two weeks in the work of the session, ^f parents and guardians could only be brought to view matters in the light in which they appear to the Faculty, we are convinced that very few permissions to go home for Christmas would be asked or granted.
However, there are two points in which the Faculty expect that parents and guardians will co-operate with them to promote the success of the session’s work; viz., by not asking o withdraw, students before the time fixed, and by
insisting that they return punctually for the opening of the classes on January 2d.
Vacation will begin this year early enough to allow even those who live at the greatest distance ample time to reach home. Classes will continue until Monday evening, Dec. 22d., and the exodus will be in order on Tuesday morning. It will be simply useless to annoy the President with petitions to be allowed to go home before the 23d. On this point no concessions will be made. And as we are well aware that very few of our students like to be refused favors, our advice to one and-all is “Don’t expose yourselves to the danger of being disappointed.”
The Entertainment.
Washington Hall was opened for college purposes on Tuesday evening. The sight of the well-remembered scenes, and of the old stage dear to so many generations of Thespians, Columbians, Cecilians and Philopatrians, evidently recalled to all present the most pleasant recollections of the good old times gone by. There was no peacock as in Phelan Hall to strut about in pompous dignity and give himself the airs of a phoenix rising from his ashes; but, to make amends, the Euglossians were there in full force, ready and willing to supply all the phoenixes that the occasion required.
At 7-15 p. m. students and Faculty were in their places, and the entertainment began by a march from the University Cornet Band. There is at present at Notre Dame material for a first-class band, and although the young gentlemen composing it have so far been put to some inconvenience for the want of an apartment in which to practice, they yet manage to acquit themselves of their part of the programme, whenever circumstances require it, in a manner satisfactory to all, and highly creditable to themselves and to the accommodating young gentleman who now acts as leader, Mr. L. J. Evers of ’79.
The overture by the String Quartette was executed in fine style, but knowing that the director of the Quartette is as modest as he is obliging, we refrain from giving him the praise to which he is entitled. The prologue by Master A. B. Mergentheim was in excellent taste, and though comparisons are always odious we cannot help saying that the reading left us much better pleased than we generally feel on similar occasions. For the past few years, unfortunately, we have not had too much to boast of in the way of vocal music, so that when we are privileged to hear a really good voice, or one capable of being developed into a good one, it is a pleasure which all appreciate. The rapt attention, therefore, of the whole audience during the duet by Messrs. Kirsch and Burger, and the repeated bursts of applause with which it was greeted, are perhaps the best testimonial we can bring forward to its excellence. Mr. Spalding’s address was well written, forcible and eloquent, showing the power which oratory has wielded and does still wield in the world's history, and how susceptible of cultivation the oratorical faculties are. Mr. Spalding’s effort would have produced a much better effect had it been spoken instead of read.
The “piece de resistance” of the evening was “The Pound.of Flesh,” or 4th Act of Shakespeare’s “ Merchant of Venice.” The roles were taken by the following young gentlemen: Mr. T. Simms, Duke of Venice; Antonio Merchant of Venice, T. Campbell; Bassanio, Q. Donnelly;
>
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	215
Gratiano, F. X Wall; Shylock, P. H. Hagan; Portia, R. E. Russell; Nerissa, D. Donahue; Bailiff, P. Maguire; and an innumerable caravan of magnificoes, officers, courtiers, attendants, swashbucklers, and supernumeraries generally, who, of course, although more ornamental than eloquent, added all the necessary pride, pomp and circumstance to the occasion. Messrs. Simms, Russell and Donnelly maintained the favorable impression which their efforts on previous occasions had created. A decided improvement is noticeable in Messrs. Wall and Donahue, on which these two young gentlemen deserve to be congratulated; while Messrs. Campbell and Maguire give promise of developing into speakers of whom the Euglossians will have reason to be proud. Mr. Hagan has had too much practice in public speaking and too much experience on the collegestage to make a failure of anyrote which he assumes; but we could not help thinking that the attempt to lay aside even for an hour his own dashing, sanguine, impetuous temperament, and assume the cool, selfish, grasping and bitterly vindictive disposition of Shy lock was a tour de force too great to be successfully performed. At all events, many were left under the impression that his rendition of the part was not up to the high standard of excellence to which, we know that Mr. Hagan aspires and which it is generally his good fortune to attain.
A long string of declamations, comic and serious, personations, recitations and hoc genus omne of efforts followed. Master N. Nelson faced the music like a little man. He was self-possessed throughout. There is good material in our young friend Nick, and it will not be a very difficult undertaking to bring it to the surface either. Mr. J. B. McGrath was pathetic, Master C. Tinley and F. McGrath were easy and graceful; J. W. McCarthy gave evidences of decided improvement; Mr. E. Orrick convulsed the house with his “ Appeal to the County Jury ”; Mr. J. F. Mug’s “Reply to the Duke of Grafton,” could scarcely be considered a blood-curdlingly withering effort; Mr. A. Zahm was perhaps a little out of his element in a humorous selection; Mr. F. Brennan in the “ Sculptor Boy,” was short, presumably sweet, but almost inaudible; and our stock of adjectives gives out just as we are about to speak of the effort of the evening, Mr. Ashe’s “Maniac.” How shall we describe it? Shall we say that it was quite too awfully funny, or that it was too oppressively tragic and realistic? that it was heart-rending or side-splitting? We are really at a loss to4decide, as we do not know what Mr. Ashe intended to make of it. We are inclined to think that he started out seriously enough, but subsequently, either yielding to the bent of his nature, or finding the audience not in humor for pathos or heavy tragedy, he changed his mind and drifted into the comic. If it was his intention to try to put his hearers in good humor with themselves and the world generally, he has reason to be more than gratified with his success. We hope to hear from Mr. Ashe again—in a real bona-fde comic role next time.
The closing remarks were made by Very Rev. President Corby. Another Grand March by the Band, and all retired delighted with the Euglossians and wishing them ail kinds of success.
Prof. Lyons certainly has the knack of bringing out all the elocutionary talent that his pupils possess; this year he has better material than usual to work on, and we expect that the results achieved before the end of the second session will be more than usually satisfactory.
Copernicus and His Work on Astronomy.
It is a remarkable fact that a great deal of our general literature comes from the hands of men who have but a superficial education, yet who varnish up their productions in such a way that the masses do not perceive the shallowness of the writers’ knowledge, or rather their ignorance of the subjects of which they treat. We see these varnished productions obtruded everywhere—in religion, science, in the arts—in history, politics, etc., and an attempt to show them up in their true light would be as futile as an attempt to prevent over-reaching in ordinary business matters. Just now a snobbish Englishman by the name of James Anthony Froude, who being ignominiously expelled from the circle of honorable historians in England after gulling the public for a number of years, now comes out as a religio-political pamphleteer and hires himself to a firm of fortune hunters to traduce a large and—by his own concession—virtuous class of American citizens. Which is most to blame, the venal American magazine that hires the degraded historian to traduce American citizens on account of their faith and the country of their birth, or the hireling himself who knowingly vilifies the faith of some of his own honorable kinsfolk, we leave it to our readers to decide.
Turning in another direction, we find one of our cotemporaries, The Western Watchman, blowing out a scientific rush-light in St. Louis. The following excerpt from a quasi-literary paper, the St. Louis Sunday Republican, is another example of much of the would-be scientific literature of the day. We quote from the editorial of the Watchman:
“Now for that astronomical idiot who writes its infidel articles. We take up his last Sunday’s performance, because it is the nearest to hand. He says:
“‘We of to-day can scarcely realize that a thousand years ago the popular ignorance on this most interesting ot all scientific subjects was so dense that perhaps not a half dozen persons m Christendom suspected the stars were anything more tnan points of light set in the firmament for tne convenience of dwellers upon earth. Still more difficult is it to realize that when the mighty truth—now familiar to the school-boy—first began to dawn upon the minds of a favored few, the power which assumed to be the accredited representative ot the Almighty and the chosen protector of His dignity denounced the new theory as an insult to Him and punished the theorizers as incorrigible heretics. It is only three hundred and thirty-six years since Nicholas Copernicus published his work on the devolutions of the Celestial Orbs, ana slipped into the grave to avoid the persecution he knew awaited turn.”
“They say that asses lose their disposition to bray as they grow old. The writer ot the above we should judge to be a youthful ass. The judgments against Galileo are no more subjects of record and no more the action of the Catholic Church than the records of the Pope’s police court. The Inquisition and the Congregation of the Index were civil institutions, established for the protection of social morality. The man who would assert that it ever was an article of Catholic faith that the stars were fiery dots writes himself down a diminutive donkey. Galileo went off” at half-cock, and the civil authorities of Rome corked his sensation for a time till it got of age. In this they were wise. It would seem that astronomy from its birth had the donkey attachment.”
The editor of the Watchman might also, byway of parenthesis, have called attention to the manner in which these latter-day lights bring forward the names of Catholics distinguished in the arts or in science, especially when priests or monks, of whom there have been many. Above
216
«5a
THE NOTRE DAMEISCHOL'ASTIC.
we see this local luminary of the Sunday Republican bringing forward the name of Nicholas Copernicus, adding, after giving“the sting, through ignorance or malice (the former, we hope), that he “ slipped into the grave to avoid the persecution he knew awaited him.” The writer in the Republican does not seem to know that this Nicholas Copernicus was a veritable Catholic priest, and an excellent and saintly one too; that he held, moreover, the ■ honorable dignity of Canon in the Church; that he was nephew to Bishop Walzelrodt, of Ermeland, in whose diocese he resided, and that in the Bishop’s absence it was this Canon Kopernik, or Copernicus, who was chosen to act in his frequent absences; that, further, this holy priest, physician, astronomer, and musician, dedicated his book ’ “De Revolutionibus” etc., by pebmission, to Pope Paul III, thus placing it under that Pope’s protection, in order, as Copernicus writes in his preface, “ that the authority of the Pontiff might silence the calumnies of those who attacked these opinions by arguments drawn from the Scriptures”; that, finally, Copernicus’s book was published at the earnest solicitations of Cardinal Schomberg, and that the expenses of publication were paid by the same Cardinal. When Copernicus died, he was buried at the foot of the altar where he usually said Mass. Thirtyeight years afterward he was honored with a eulogistic inscription on his tombstone by a successor to his uncle the Bishop, so he need not have died in such h hurry after all, to avoid the “ persecution ” our “ learned ” men write so glibly about. This and the oft rehashed calumnies about Galileo’s “ martyrdom ” are only a few of the many false, hoods that gained ground in popular English literature after the sequestration of Catholic seats of learning and muzzling of the Catholic English press by British fanatics. It is only fifty years since O’Connell obtained for the Catholics of England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales the privilege of worshipping God according to the dictates of their conscience, and they have not yet had time to establish a Catholic English literature.. In this country we were too busy and too poor to turn to literary pursuits. As yet, we must depend on Catholic scholars in France and Germany for infor. mation. The day has dawned, however. In this connection, too, the truth of the old saying is felt, that a fool can tell more lies in an hour than a wise man could refute in a week.
Personal.
—J. Smarr, ’72, can be found at Independence, Mo.
—T. E. Hopkins, ’73, is farming near Jeffersonville, Ind.
—Frank Ewing, ’78, is clerking in a bank at Lancaster, Ohio.
—H. A. Shepherd (Commercial), ’73, resides at Jerseyville, Ill.
—J. J. Shugrue, ’79, has entered a law office in Washington, D. C.
—Vicente Baca, ’71, is coining money at Las Vegas, New Mexico.
—Lawrence Cabel, ’53, is president of a national bank at Sandusky, Ohio.
—Our old friend, Bro. Benjamin, is enjoying good health at Covington, Ky.	.
'^-E. Newton (Commercial), ’72, is now visiting the Lake Superior regions.
—J. Culver, ’72, we understand, is doing a flourishing business at Seymour, Ind.
^•D. Vaughan, ’65, is cosily situated on Dryades street— No. 283—New Orleans.
—Bro. Cyril’s school at Springfield, Ill., is highly spoken of by all who have visited it.
—E. J. Pennington, ’78, is enjoying his otiumcumdig. at 37 Burgundy St., New Orleans.
—Bro. Emmanuel is again with us, looking younger and healthier than he did ten years ago.'
—M. Goergen, ’80, has gone to Paris, France, to study for the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
—Mr. Chaves, of New Mexico, father of our little Minim, Master Jose, was the guest of President Corby last week.
l^-J. Le Marie (Commercial), ’78, is keeping books for his father. His address is, Room F. Gallier Court, New Orleans.
—We were much pleased to see the genial face of Rev. Father Shortis ’49, this week. He has, we are happy to say, entirely recovered from his recent illness.
—J. Cassard shows the Crescent City folks how to compute discount and such difficult things with lightning rapidity. He is with Shropshrie & Co., 37 Tchoupitoulas St., New Orleans.
—George Cochrane, ’79, has our thanks for an invitation to attend a Mignon reception at his home in Chicago. We regret that we could not attend, as we are sure all had a pleasant time.
—Rev. T. Carroll, ’76, was ordained priest last week by the Most Rev. Archbishop Henni, of Milwaukee. He has charge of the department of Studies in the College of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis.
—B. Leander lately received the following from Roger Williams, who was a Prep, here last year: “ Since I wrote to you last, I have procured a situation as clerk with the firm of Judson, Meade & Co., of this place. Those practical business problems you used to drill your class in when I was a member of it come very handy to me now. What I regret most is that I did not study German. Tell all the boys to take up the study of German. If I could speak German I could command ten dollars more a month on my salary.”
Iiocal Items.
—Take a grab.
—Just my luck!
—Isn’t he pretty!
—Pass them around.
—All right, Morgan.
—Hurrah for the Turks 1
—Manning wants fair play.
—“ Want t’ swap jack-knives ? ”
—Apple, mince, or blackberry?
—The Russians fought nobly.
—Orrick took the house down.
—“ I’ll have me pound of flesh! ”
—Items wanted; call on our local.
—What’s the number of your box?
—“ I am not mad. I am not mad.”
—Success to the University Quartette!
—“My friends, I can’t be laughed at.”
—That strawberry, etc., took too many.
—Have you seen the “god of war” lately?
—Perea is the best elocutionist in the Seniors.
—Now, do tell us who stole that Prep.’s cake?
—Use Gillott’s pens—the best made.—(Adv’t.)
—General Grant is not coming to Notre Dame.
—It is said that beefsteak is good for sore heads.
—The Medics dissected a “stiff” Tuesday night.
—Master Wilder’s boots are the envy of the Preps.
.—Our Sidney Smith is not an essayist; he is a novelist.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC;
21174—
—Dan says he is bound to win that penmanship medal.
—The Leatherheads are at loggerheads with the Beefheads.
—Will he call for his boots again, during the Christmas holidays ?
—Some of the Laws keep very disorderly desks in the study-hall.
—It 13 rumored that a third term is to be added to the Law Course.
—Why did the Band hesitate to open the exercises on Tuesday evening?
—The Creoles, with one exception, are among the best students in the Prep. Dept.
—Our Eastern friends do not agree as to the superiority of “Bostmg” over New Haven.
—The members of the Chemistry Class make interesting experiments every evening.
—Delightful weather. The Juniors kicked football almost every day this week.
—When you want oysters, sardines, and fruit-cake to disappear call on the Hoosiers.
—The mocking-bird in the. Junior study-hall was killed by mice last Tuesday night.
—Carter says it isn’t a pleasant thing to tramp from town on a wet night in the dark.
—Only one Freshman went fishing last Wednesday. He caught a bull-head. Birds of a featner, etc.
—That Buckeye, of ’80, is engaged in the study of Sacred Hermeneutics. This is as it should be.
—The Boss says he is the only man around the place that knows how to run a, etc. Experience, you know.
—The geniality of that Junnior Scientific has returned since he divested himself of that parasitic protuberance.
—Professor: “How many Evangelists were there?” Youthful Law: “Twelve, sir, and each wrote a gospel.”
—Sculptors looking for a model of manly beauty can find one in the person of our Commercial friend from Iowa. ’
—This time a Theolog. shot a wild duck, but he didn’t kill it. Courage, young man; perseverance leads to success.
—The Latin and G-reek languages are invaluable to those who pretend to a reasonable knowledge of their own tongue.
—He is on the war-path; he has been imposed upon; blood is in his eye, and satisfaction must be rendered to his insulted dignity.
—The Nimrods are nonplussed. One hundred and fifty wild geese on the St. Joseph Farm, but so wary that no one can get near them.
—The Columbians intend to give a literary soiree shortly before the holidays. Tue exercises will consist of a debate, essays, and declamations.
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt of an interesting collection of Lake Superior specimens from Bro. Theodore, C. S. C.
—Fare—Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday—from Laporte to Indianapolis and return, only four dollars and a half. Avail yourself ot the opportunity.
—The second competition in Christian Doctrine for the gold medal took place on last Sunday, in which W. J. McCarthy, ol Booneville, Mo., came out first.
—No one should feel put out at the results of competition. Curious things happen sometimes. It is not always the best that get ahead, or the worst that get left.
—The most voracious individual in the refectory is also said to be the best-natured of the Collegiates. Truly an extraordinary combination of pre-eminent qualities.
—Our wooden-nutmeg Soph, did the fair thing by treating the historians to a box of the fragrant. Who will now say that he is a striking illustration of the Darwinian theory?
—Prep, to Freshy: “What is a kaleidoscope?” “A ' collide scope—ahem I—a collidoscope, my dear, is an in
strument which enables us to view collisions on the railroad from a safe distance.”
—Father Zahm, C. S. C., has lately received a number of beautiful galvanic and electro-magnetic apparatus, among others a large battery and the great electro-magnet, an account of which was given in a late issue.
—Miss Eliza Allen Starr,^the distinguished art critic and writer, has the thanks of the young gentlemen of the Lemonnier Library Association tor a donation which will serve for the corner-stone of the new Art Department of the Library.
—What do these Minims and ex-Minims mean? Do they wish to run off with everything in the shape of prizes ? See to it, ye hundred and odd other Juniors, that that Nick Nelson, Coghlin, and Co., remain .not your champions till the end of the year.
—To-morrow, the 2d Sunday of Advent, Missa de Angelis will be sung. 1st Vespers of the Immaculate Conception, p. Ill, of the Vesperal. Next Monday, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, Jfissa Regia will be sung. 2d Vesper s of the Immaculate Conception, p. 111.	-
—The first three days of December are said to typify the weather for the three winter months. If so, December will be mild and balmy, January nearly the same, and February will begin with a little falling weather, but no severe frost will occur during the whole winter.
—We are glad to hear that many of the old students are to return to Notre Dame for the second session. Several have remained at home, fearing that the new buildings would be unhealthy. So far, thanks to a kind Providence, the sanitary condition of the students has never been better.
—Very Rev. President Corby and Rev. Father Condon made a flying visit to the farm on Tuesday. They were entertained by Rev. Father Ford with the warm-hearted hospitality so characteristic of him. Father Ford may be getting old, but a big heart is one of those things which years are powerless to change.
—We call the attention of two or three of our friends to these words of Abp. Vaughan: “There seems to be a subtle tendency in the mind of the present age towards infidelity—a secret lurking in the heart after pretexts for getting rid of a morality or religion which is a restraint on passions, curbs pride, and keeps man humble.”
—The monster magnet has at length arrived and been placed in Science Hall. A lecture will be given by Father Zahm, in which illustrations of its great power will be given. All may look forward to next Thursday with, the confidence of being much instructed and interested. None at least of our Senior students should fail to be present.
—The Museum is gradually becoming enriched with specimens donated by friends of the University. Father Zahm, the zealous Curator, is always grateful for any favors received. He is indefatigable in his exertions to place his department on the same footing that it was before the fire, and for this he deserves the gratitude of all lovers of science.
—We see by the last number of the Katlwlisches Weaken-blatt, of Chicago, that one of our Notre Dame litterateurs has turned poet, and translated into German Father Faber’s beautiful hymn “ 0 Purest of Creatures,” etc., which is published in the Wochenblatt for the silver jubilee of the proclamation of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception, on the Sth instant.
—Our Holy Father Leo XIII, by a Brief dated Rome, September 20, grants a Plenary Indulgence to all who, being truly penitent, shall go to confession, receive Holy Communion, and devoutly visit a church and there pray according to his intentions, on December Sth, the twentyfifth anniversary of the definition of the Dogma of the Immaculate Conception.
—The Minim department is in a most flourishing condition. We can say with all truth that nowhere in the United States is there a school for young boys so admirably conducted as the Minim Department at Notre Dame. The present teachers are without equal for their success in imparting knowledge to their young proteges. ■ This is plainly
218]
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC;
proved by the positions the boys take in. the other departments when they are graduated from the Minims.
—We learn that the Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago Railway Co., whose advertisement may be seen elsewhere in our columns, will sell tickets at less than half-fare to Indianapolis and return, from all stations between Michigan City and Peru, on occasion of the Grand Army reunion and the reception to General Grant at Indianapolis on the 9th of December. Tickets good on all regular trains December Sth and 9th, and returning until Dec. 10th.
—The Prof, of Physics lately showed us a number of delicate apparatus made for him by Mr. Buysse, the ingenious watch-maker of South Bend. Mr. Buysse is one of the best silversmiths in the country, as is attested by the number and variety of the orders for fine work he receives from far and near. Only a few days ago a piece of work, requiring more than ordinary skill, was sent him from Kansas. To all who patronize him we guarantee that he will give entire satisfaction.
—The Columbians and Thespians gave a soiree dansante in Washington Hall on Saturday night. The most bewitching music was furnished by Clagget’s celebrated string band; so enticing, in fact, were the dulcet strains that the learned Solon, the dignified General, and the stiff-jointed Washingtonian found themselves whirling around the hall in the dizzy mazes of the waltz before they realized where they were. A choice repast was furnished by Russ & Co., South Bend’s best caterers, and all enjoyed themselves.
—The following, very slightly altered from the Yale Record, will perhaps do for Notre Dame:
There was a young student in chapel, Said “I think that a snug little nap’ll Do me more good Than a sermon could.
• And his snore softly rose in the chapel.
There was a stern prefect behind him, In less than a second did find him;
Then he took out a book,	•
With a sorrowful look,
' And a high note for Church he assigned him.)
—Quite an excitement reigned among the Preps, in the Junior study-hall on Wednesday evening. An old-fashioned spelling-bee was on the tapis. The sides were captained by M. J. Burns, of the Sophomore Class, and A. Rock, of the Freshman. After a contest lasting nearly three quarters of an hour, the Burns side was declared victorious. Spelling down then began, and in a hall-hour the Rock men were represented only by Master Nicholas Nelson, while the other side had two champions, J. Weitzel and A. Coghlin. Finally, A. Coghlin held the floor alone, and amid tremendous applause was declared entitled to the prize promised the winner.
—The Preps had a jolly time in their new recreationroom last Sunday, when one of their friends, accompanied by Master Foster, called to see them with a large bag of ot apples, a basket of eatables, and his pocket filled with " checks, some blank and others marked “ prize.” Each of the boys in turn drew a ticket; those drawing the prize-checks were given a share of the goodies, etc., and were greeted with uproarious applause by their less lucky companions, who laid great stress on the long-standing friendship that existed between themselves and the winners. As each boy had five or six draws, nearly every one received something. Several fortunate ones drew cards marked “ oysters.” These went, with their kind Prefect, Brother Leander, to the refectory, where they did ample justice to the escaloped oysters and mince pie set before them. The Preps, say they have no objection to other of their friends calling around, especially when they bring good things with them.
J —Books received by the Lemonnier Library during the week ending Dec. 6th: William of Malmesbury’s Chronicle of the Kings of England, Translated by Sharpe; Six Old English Chronicles, viz.: Asset’s Life of Alfred, and the Chronicles of Ethelwerd, Gildas, Nennius, Geoffrey of Monmouth,and Richard of Cirencester; Catholic Quarterly Review, vol. 4; Catholic World, vol. 23; Life and Letters of John Winthrop, by Robt. W. Winthrop; Schlegel’s ^Esthetic and Miscellaneous Works; Poets and Poetry of Northern Europe, Longfellow; Manual of Instruction,
Weninger; Jules Verne’s Works, viz.: Great Voyages and Great Navigators; The Pearl of Lima; The English at the North Pole; Round the Moon; The Field of Ice; Hector Servadac, or Travels and Adventures Through the Solar System; Five Weeks in a Balloon; Meridians, or The Adventures of Three Englishmen and Three Russians in South Africa; 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea; A Journey to the Centre ot the Earth; The Mysterious Island, or The Abandoned; From the Earth to the Moon in 97 Hours and 20 minutes; Tour of the World in Eighty Days; Michael Strogoff, or the Courier of the Czar; The Black Indies; Dropped from the Clouds; A Voyage Round the World, Australia; South America; New Zealand; The Fur Country, or Seventy Degrees North Latitude; A Captain at Fifteen; Jane Eyre; Charlotte Bronte; Shirley; The Professor.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, R. M. Anderson,-J. B. Berteling, W. Boulger, 3. P. Brice, M. T. Burns, B. J. Claggett, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. E. Clarke, L. Clements, T. B. Campbell, R. S. Campbell, D. Donohue, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, G. Donnelly, H. L. Duginger, H. Deehan, AL English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty I. J. Gittings, E. Gooley, J. P. Hagan, J. Halloran, F. Humbert, A. A Hayden, G. Harris, J. Hartman, T. Hmderlang, J. Jordan, fi. C. Johnson. C. E. Johnson, J.P. Kinney, J. Kurz, J. Keena, J. R. Kelly, J. Kavanagh, P. B. Larkin, J. J. B. McGrath, VV. B. AIcGorrisk, W. J. Murphy, J. Malone, AL Afaloney, J. J. AlcErlain, AI. J. AfcEniry, J. O. McNerny, J. A McIntyre, Ei Molitor, P. H. Maguire, J. D. McRae, VV. McAtee, J. F. Alug, L. Mathers, J. Noonan, J. Norfleet, K. C. O’Brien, J. F. O’Connell, Geo. Pike, L. N. Proctor, G. Palmer, R. E. Russell, J. Ryan, F. Reeve, S. T. Spalding, J. Spalding, T. VV. Simms, T. Summers, J. Solon, G. Sugg, J. Strawn, P. F. Shea, VV. Scholfield, L. Stitzel, J. S. Smith, R. D. Stewart, A Stockwell, P. Terry, P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, H. VVathan, F. X. Wall, C. Whalen, W. Wilson, A Zahm, T. Zeien, J. Osher.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. ’
A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, A A. Burmeister, T. P. Byrne, AL J. Burns, G. C. Castanedo, A A Caren, E. H. Croarkin, L. VV. Coghlin, A M. Coghlin, W. S. Cleary, H. P. Dunn, J. W. Devitt, 8. T. Dering, T. F. Flynn, R. C. Fleming, G. C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, F. H. Grever, Fred Glade, E. H. Gaines, J. A Gibbons, A. C. Hierb, J. A. Hintze, J. A Hermann, A F. Hellebush, P. A Joyce, G. C. Knight, R. Le Bourgeois, J. E. Litmer, J. A. Larkin, S. Livingston, F. AI. McPhillips, C. J. AlcDermott, J. L. Alorgan, VV. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. AlcCarthy, P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, K. E. O’Connor, J. P. O’Neill, E. A Otis, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomey, F. B. Phillips, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Quinn, C. H. Roberts, A. K. Kheinboldt, A. Rietz, VV. Rietz, C. F. Reitz, P. H. Basche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Kose, E. G. Sugg,* J. A Seeger, J. VV. Start, J. Al. Scanlan, J. K. Schobey, C. A Tinley, C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, AL A Vedder, J. B. Witzel, W. T. Weney.	•
* E. G. Sugg. Ommitted last week through mistake.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Van Mourick, J. Courtney, L. W. Spalding, C. E. Droste, E. A Howard, H. C. Snee, F. Mattes, A Van Alourick, G. Woodson, D. G. Taylor, J. S. Chaves, W. M. Olds, F. £. Leach, J. H. Dwenger, J. A Kelly, E. N. O’Donnell, J. H. Garrity, W. Wright, L. J. Young, C. Young, J. R. Bender, F. B. Farrelly, A. A Alolander, W. V. O’Maliy.
Class Honors.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
J. R. Marlett, J. Delany, J. Keena, W. Scholfield, H. Dephan, C. L.. Smith, W. McAtee, L. Clements, J. Kurz, P. B. Larkin AI. Aloloney, F. Clarke, J. 8. Smith, J. Ryan, T. Hinderlang J. F. Mug, J. McNamara, J. Alalone, E. Gooley, R. Adams H. C. Gregory, L. Mathers, C. W. McDermott, R. E. Semmes’, G. Castanedo, J. F. Browne, R. Le Bourgeois, C. Perry J. W. Guthrie, K. Pomey, E. Croarkin, F. Reeve, J. Morgan, E. Sugg, J. Gibbons, 0. Thiele, F. Glade, J. Weitzel, A J. Helle-
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	219
i	■
bush, J. Homan, F. Kleine, E. Otis, G. Rhodius, J. Seeger, P. Rasche, A. M. Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, J. Devitt, G. Foster, J. Bering, C. Rose, A. Manning, E. A Gaines, N. Weney, P. Perley, J. Gittings, J. Spalding, T. Kavanagh, J. McEnry, G. Palmer, R. Johnson, C. Johnson, J. Hartmann.
List of Excellence.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PBPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—P. Shea, M. Mathers, T. Bell, J. Delaney, T. Devitt, E. Gaines, J. B. Wilder, R. Pomey, M. Vedder, A Coghlin, J. Boose, A. Conyne, A. Hintz, W. Coghlin ; Grammar—W. J. Boulger, J. Devitt, C. Rose, E. Croarkin, C. Thiele, W. Cleary, W. Coghlin, J. B. Wilder, T. Hinderlang, T. Kavanagh, J. Solon, J. Malone, F. Kleine, C. Tinley, J. McCarthy, A. Hellebush, N. Weney, T. Flynn, J. Boose, A. B. Mer-gentheim, R. McCarthy, G. Foster; Arithmetic—R. Le Bourgeois, J. Seeger, J. Browne, R. Adams, T. Kavanagh, F. Humbert, H. Dunn, A. Burmeister, G. Knight; Geography and History—H. Bachman, F. Becker, T. Hinderlang, J. Malone, T. Ryan, W. McAtee, L. W. Coghlin, A. Hellebush, C. Perry; Algebra—P. B. Larkin, T. Conlan, F. Clarke, F. T. Dever, C. McDermott, J. McEniry, R. Anderson, J. Norfleet; Latin—M. J. Burns, W. Connolly, J. Homan, T. F. Clarke, R. Campbell, J. Kurz, G. Sugg, R. Stewart, W. Arnold, N. Weney, P.B. Larkin, M. J. McEniry, R. Anderson, R. Semmes, J. Gibbons, A.Caren; Greek—J. Norfleet; Christian Doctrine—N. Weney, T. Devitt, J. F. Browne, A. M. Coghlin, R. O’Brien, A. Caren, J. Kurz.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—On Thanksgiving evening, Father Kilroy again met the young ladies in the study-hall, and entertained them with -a very charming account of his travels in Europe, describing the principal cities, and passing very edifying reflections upon the characteristics of the several nations. Many of the young ladies took notes, being unwilling to lose so valuable an opportunity of increasing their fund of general information.
—At the regular Academic reunion the reading was “ The Arab’s Farewell to his Steed ”—Mrs. Caroline Norton —by Miss Wall; “A un jeune Ecdesiastique "—Lacordaire Miss Geiser; “Elocutionary Exercises”—Miss Keys; “St. Hubertus ”—G. Gbrres, Miss Horner; and “ A Message ” —Adelaide Procter, Miss Gordon.
—Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., of Stratford, Ontario, assisted at the regular Academic. reunion in the Junior Department. Reading: “ Winter’s Approach,” Miss C. Lancaster; “Per Wolfundder HaseP'LQ&^va^, by Miss C. Gibbons; L'Esperance” A. Dufresnes,” by Miss L. Fox; “The Legend of the Rosary,” by Miss C. Campbell.
—Visitors: Mr. and Mrs. Chaves, Belen, New Mexico; Mrs. W. H. Zarley, Joliet, Ill.; Dr. Joseph Davis, New Carlisle, Ind.; Mrs. M. E. Good, South Bend; Mr. Bowes, Baltimore, Md.; John Maloney, James A. Marlett, Vicks-burgh, Miss.; John H. Dickman, agent of the Benziger Bro’s, Cincinnati.
—On Thanksgiving Day, Rev. Dr. Kilroy sang High Mass, and delivered an excellent sermon—subject: “The Prerogatives of the Blessed Virgin Mary.” At about three o’clock, p. m., the pupils assembled in the study-hall, and the Rev. Dr. honored them with his presence. An address, commemorating his silver jubilee of ordination, was read by Miss Ewing. Miss Rosing read “La Cloche du bon-hear”—Journal des Pensionnats, and Miss Usselman “Pie Pomgloche zu Erfurt.” As Father Kilroy was passing through the building, after the literary entertainment, he, with a number of guests, was invited into the vocal hall, where the following musical programme was given: Gallop...........................................Liszt
Miss Keenan.
Fleurs des Alpes.................................  Wektrlin
Miss Gordon.
Tauntello.............................................Jiaff
Miss Geiser.
Song..............................................-L’Arditi
.	. Miss Kirchner.
Vocal Trio .....................................    Campana
i Misses Silverthorn, Kirchner and Callinan.
Perpetual Movement................................Van Weber
Miss Silverthorn.
Chorus.........................................Vocal Class.
Roll of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE ACADEMIC COURSE. honorably mentioned in the
Graduating Class—Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Ewing, Woodin, Neteler, S. Hambleton, Keenan, Maloney. 1st Senior Class—Misses Rosing, Cavenor, Sullivan, C. Hackett, A. Ewing, Galen, Kirchner, Ryan, Danaher, Gordon, Quinn, Ward, Buck, Farrell. 2d Sr. Class—Misses Dillon, Lloyd, Claffey, Geiser, A. McGrath, Joyce, Winston, Herrick. Mattingly, Smith, Otto, Neu, Jones, O’Neill. Usselman. 3d Sr. Class—Misses Fitzgerald. A. Dillon, Bannister, De Lapp, Dallas, Roys, McMahon, Fox, Julius, Gall, Bischoff, Palmer, Loeber, C. Watban, S. Wathan, English, Donnelly. 1st Preparatory Class—Misses Bassett, Murphy, Zahm, Piersol, Keys, Lancaster, Semmes, Dessaint, Wall, G. Campbell, French, Van Namee, O’Connor, Stitzel, Taylor, Callinan, McKinnis, Price, Orr, Populorum, Butts, Hackley, Keena, Baronx, Hamilton. 2d Prep. Class—Misses Hammond, Homer, Soloman, Reinhardt, S. Semmes, Papin, E. Hackett, Casey, McFadden, Thompson, Halloran, Lemontey, Rasche. 3d Prep. Class— Misses Edelen, J. Wells, Reynolds, Tallman, Moxon, E. Dallas, E. Lloyd. Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Duncan, Legnard, 0. Lancaster, Paquette, E. Populorum, Chirhart, Carter, Barlow, McCloskey, E. Ryan, Fleming. 1st Jr. Class—Misses Hale, Hutchison, Harrison, E. Papin, Considine, Clarke, Zimmerman, Fisk. 2d Jr. Class Misses B. Garrity, M. Fitzgerald, V. Orr, M. Baronx.	’
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Rosing, A McGrath, Lemontey, 2d Div.—Misses Dallas, I. Semmes, Geiser, O’Neill, Maloney, Cavenor, Neu, A. Ewing, Cortright, 2d Class— Misses Campbell, 8. Wathen, G. Wathen, Butts, Cox. 3d Class—Misses A. Ryan, S. Semmes, M. Feehan, C. Lancaster, Fox, L. Populorum, Baronx, Wright, French, S. Papin. 2d Div.—Misses Herrick, Lancaster, Keyes, English. De Lapp, Jones, Winston, Hackett. Clarke, E. Populorum. 4th Class— Misses Wells, Taylor, G. Taylor, Smith,. Gavin, McMahon, Simms, Barlow, E. Dallas, E. Papin, Paquette, Hammond, Donnelly, Price. L. English, Legnard.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Gall, Usselman, Reinhardt, Julius, Homer, Soloman, 2d Class—Misses Smith, Claffey, C. Hackett, Bischoff, McMahon. Loeber, Van Namee. 3d Class—Misses Fitzgerald, Ward, Joyce, 51. Hamilton, Butts. 4th Class— Misses Quinn, Campbell, Duncan, Dillon, Reutlinger, Stitzel, Bruser, Piersol, Ginz, Gibbons, Chirhart, Harrison, Carter, Hutcheson, S. Semmes, Casey, Moll, Bassett, Considine, Fleming, Zimmerman.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, Ewing, Neteler, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Buck, Rosing, Quinn, Galen, Danaher, Gordon, L Semmes, A. McGrath, Dillon, Neu, Joyce, Otto, Mitchell, Jones, Winston, Geiser, Smith, Mattingly, Fitzgerald, Donnelly, De Lapp, Dallas, Roys, Wells, Bischoff, Bruser, McMahon, English, C. Wathen, S. Wathen, Palmer, Zahm, Campbell, O’Connor, Keys, Murphv, Lancaster, I. Semmes, Hamilton, Kinzie, Stitzel, Taylor, Keena, Dessaint, Wall, McKinnis, Gavan, Baroux, Wright, Price, Bassett, Homer, Hammond, McFadden, Soloman, Rasche, Halloran, Moxon, Edelen, Tailman, Atwood, Woodin, Keenan, Maloney, Hambleton, Cavenor, A Ewing, Farrell, Kirchner, Lloyd, Herrick, Gall, Usselman, O’Neill, Bannister, Julius, Callinan, Thompson, Piersol, Hackley, Reinhardt, Reynolds.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, Feehan, A Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, French, Populorum, Van Namee, S. Semmes, E. Hackett^ Casey, Fishburne, J. Wells, E. Dallas, Joseph, Moll, G. Taylor, McCloskey, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Duncan, Reutlinger, Chirhart, Barlow, Legnard, E. Populorum, L. English, Ginz, Paquette, Hale, Hutcheson, Harrison, Zimmerman, E. Papin, Considine, I. Hackett, Robinson, V. Orr, M. Baroux, par excellence. Misses Orr, Lemontey, Leyden, Papin, McN. Garrity, Watson, Carter, Clarke, Fisk. .
220
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table—Nov. 16, 1879.
	♦MaU	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City-“ Nihs	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit -	-	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 80 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 »	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Man	♦Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo --“ Niles - - - -“ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50 a, m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 p.m. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 “ 5 30 » 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 3 30 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 415 p.m.
“ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—745 “	455 “
Weeklv Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame's students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clark-b, op70.
TllJtd A. V Jtd MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
Hotels.
THE MATTERSON HOUSE, Corner of Was bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matterson.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
♦Snnday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wbntwobth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago. DI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Condensed Time Table,’Nov. IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND
Civil Engineers & Survevors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civil ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACK [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect JUNE 8, 1879.
Going	North.	STATIONS	Going	South.
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9.55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 « 6.10 “	3 20 p.m. 2 30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ 1.07 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 »• 10.26 “ 9 56 “ 9.13 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Abbive	Leave - - Michigan City, - -- - - - La Porte, - - - - - - Stillwell, - - - - - - - Walkerton, - - - - - - Plymouth, - - - - - - - Rochester, - - - - - - - Denver, - - - - - -	- Peru, - - - - - - Bunker Hill, - - -- - Kokomo Junction, - - - - - - Tipton, - - - - - - Noblesville, - - - - - Indianapolis, - - - - - - Cincinnati, - - - - - - Louisville, - - -- - - Saint Louis, - - •	9.35 a.m. 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12.40 p.m. 1.17 “ 2.00 “ 2.22 “ 3.00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m.	8.05 p.m 8.55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 12.12 a.m 12.40 “ 1.01 “ 1.35 “ 2.16 “ 3.02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 7.45 a.m. - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 11.00 a. m. “	“ 6.40 p.m. - -	“	“	9.50 p.m.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 8.50 p. m. “	“	11.10 u - - -	“	“ 2.55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
EgFBirths $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l Manger, Indians polls.	Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3. Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	L50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 « 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 " • 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 A.M. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 a.m. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	
GOING EAST.				
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8 MaU.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive	9.10 p.m. 2.46 A.M. 6.55 « 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30 a m 2.33 “ 4.05 “	• • • • • • • •->
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 1L15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 P.M. 3.30
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. HYEBSJG. P. & T. A.
THE NOTRE’DAME SCHOLASTIC.	221
THE SUN FOR 1880.
The Son will deal with the events of the year 1880 in its own fashion, now pretty well understood by everybody. From January 1 until December 31 it will be conducted as a newspaper, written in the English language, and printed for the people.
As a newspaper, The Sun believes in getting all the news of the wor! d promptly, and presenting it in the most intelligible shape—the shape that will enable its readers to keep well abreast of the age with the least unproductive expenditure of time. The greatest in terest to the greatest number—that is, the law controlling its dailn make-up. It now has a circulation very much larger t* an that of any other American newspaper, and en|oys an income which it is at all times prepared to spend liberally for the benefit of its readers People of all conditions of life and of all ways of thinking buy and read The Sun: and they all derive satisfaction of some sort from its columns, for they keep on buying and reading it.
In its comments on men and affairs. The Sun believes that the only guide of policy should be common sense, inspired by genuine American principles and backed by honesty of purpose. For this reason it is. and will continue to be, absolutely independent of party, class, clique, organization or interest. It is for all, but of none It will continue to praise what is good and reprobate what is evil, taking care that its language is to the point and plain, beyond the possibility of being misunderstood. It is influenced by motives that do not appear on the surface; it has no opinions to sell, save those which may be had by any purchaser with two cents. It hates injustice and rascality even more than it hate” unnecessary words. It abhors frauds, pities fools, and deplores nincompoops of every species. It will continue throughout the year 1830 to chastise the first class, instruct the second, and discountenance the third. All honest men, with honest convictions, whether sound or mistaken, are its friends. And The Sun makes no bones of telling the truth to its friends and about its friends whenever occasion arises for plain speaking
These are the principles upon which The Sun will be conducted during the year to come.
The year 1880 will be one in which no patriotic American can afford to close his eyes to public affairs. It is impossible to exaggerate the importance of the political events which it has in store, or the necessity of resolute vigilance on the part of every citizen who desires to preserve the Government that the founders gave ns. The debates and acts of Congress, the utterances of the press, the exciting contests of the Republican and Democratic parties, now nearly equal in strength throughout the country, the varying drift of public sentiment, will all bear directly and effectively upon the twenty-fourth Presidential election, to be h<*ld in November. Font years ago next November the will of the nation, as expressed at the polls, was thwarted by an abominable conspiracy, the promoters and beneficiaries of which still hold the offices they stole. Will the crime of 1876 be repeated in 1830? The past decade of years opened with a corrupt, extravagant., and insolent Administration intrenched at Washington. The Sun did something toward dislodsing the gang and breaking its power. The same men are now intriguing to restore their leader and themselves to places from which they were driven by the indignation of the people. Will they succeed? The coming year will bring the answers to these momentous questions. The Sun will be on h*nd to chronicle the facts as they are developed, and to exhibit them clearly and fearlessly in their relations to expediency and right.
Thus, with a habit of philosophical good humor in looking at the minor affairs of life, and in great things a steadiast purpose to maintain the rights of the people and the principles of the Constitution against all aggressors, The Sun is prepared to write a truthful, instructive, and at the same time entertaining history of 1880.
Our rates of subscription remain unchanged. For the Daily Sun, a four-page sheet of tweny-eight columns, the price by mail, post-paid, is 55 cents a month or §6.50 a year; or incluuingthe Sunday paper, an eight-page sheet of fifty-six columns, the price is 65 cents a month S'? .70s year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished separately at $ 1,30 a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is Si,a year, postage paid. For clubs of ten sending §1O we will send an extra copy free.
Address	I. W. ENGLAND.
nl5-6t	Publisher of The Sun, New York City.
CT. MISH
Keeps tlie Best Line of
CIGARS, TOBACCO and SMOKERS’ ARTICLES In the City.
AN ELEGANT LINE OF COSTUMES ALWAYS ON HAND.
ODD FELLOWS’ BLOCK,
[Sontli Bend,;iii<l.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Mile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.	.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recitals.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Paintin g or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic $nd Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
NOW RIL1DY.
The Scholastic Annual
FOR 1880.
fifth yeah.
Price, 25 Cents,—Bent Postpaid to any Address.
The following is the table of contents of the number for the coming year:
PAGE
Astrological Predictions,. .5
Astronomical Calculations, ..........................8
A Beautiful Thought, Bishop Ryan....................41
“ A Little Learning is a
Dangerous Thing,” W. .44
Abstinence Days,.........9
Calendars,..............10
Discoveries, T. E. H....40
Eclipses,................8
Fasting Days.............9
For a Birthday (Poetry),
Miss E. A. Starr,.....34
Frederick Ozanam (Poetry) ......................39
Golden Words, Rt.	Rev. Dr.
Spalding,........68-79
Handwriting, H..........43
High Art, A. J. S.....38
PAGE
Holy Days of Obligation. .9
Introductory,............4
Movable Feasts,..........8
Mrs. Blogden’s Demand
(Poetry), A. J. S........42 P&re Marquette (Poetry),
Father Cronin.........46
Rates of Postage.........7
Sonnet, MauriceF. Egan.39
Shall and WiU, T. E. Howard, A.M..............49-53
The Picture’s Message, Ethd Tane....................34
The Truth about Galileo,
B. S. C............53-59
The Old and the New, (Illustrations) Egg Rock. .63-66
The Old College (Poetry)
T. A. Bailey..........66
Winged Words. .1.........
All orders for The Scholastic Annual should be addressed to the publisher,
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
UNIVERSITY OU NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(MAIN BUILDING.')	J
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, andwas char-	|
tered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence	'
near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada byjneans of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central;
the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot,‘.South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.	«
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping j Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.	£
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their I moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Chris-	*■
tian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course m of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world	II
having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion.	■
The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the	||
officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that	0
no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution.	a
Terms greatly reduced.	S
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.	H
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free onTapplication'to'the President,	1
-	.... - Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C^ Notre Dame P. O^Iudiana.	|