Notre Dame Scholastic.
* .
Disce quasi semper vleturus; vive c^uas! eras moriturus.
Volume X.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 16, 1877.
Number 41.
Eugene Aram.^ , . / " ■ ' •
Unwholesome book 1 ’twere well I left thee in That twilight garret, silent with thy fit Companions, cobweb, mold, and dust. Now flit, So long unwaked, the morbid shapes of sin And suffering, cant and self. The hideous din Of intellectual jargon, hollow, pitLike notes of empty science, at length remit Their sleep upon the musty page, and win New lease of life in my perturbed brain. Thrice, titled author, have I sought for ease Amongst thy close, oppressive mysteries— A soulless mind, a stifled city, pain That hath no sweetness ; now this worst. Again I loathe thy good and ill, alike deformities.
’	E.
Nature.
No matter where we turn our eyes, no matter what we may happen to look at, we find there and in that thing something at once of a striking nature, something well calculated to elevate our souls and fix our thoughts on Him who is the Creator of all things. The woods and forests spreading in the far distance, which give enchantment to the view, afford a striking example of this; their noble beasts of prey, insects, raptiles, etc., all tend to that grand and sublime order of things which is found in the works of God. Beneath us flows that silvery stream which winds its way to the sea—the vast ocean, hiding beneath its waters those countless numbers of fishes ascending and descending at regular intervals for a purpose of their own; those which by their nature belong to the sea find the beds of rivers a secure place to deposit their eggs, after which they again seek the briny sea, that vast expanse of water which covers more than two-thirds of the earth’s surface, replete with life, animality, and a kind of enjoyment altogether foreign to our nature—foreign inasmuch as it constitutes something incomprehensible to our reason, and forms as it were the intrinsic difference between animal and rational life. On the river’s banks, in the vastness of the woods, and on the mountain tops and hillsides, as well as in the cultivated garden and green house we find another kind of life, the vegetative life, and under this head is included the botanical world, so to say. for indeed flowers form in themselves something of a kingdom, and a beautiful one at that ; those lovely flowers which spring up everywhere, those peerless offshoots of nature, smiling at our feet with all the loveliness and beauty that could be lavished upon them by the mighty Hand of Nature’s God, bringing to our minds something like a knowledge of things supersensible by the way and in the way that they affect the faculties of the
mind. Behold those tiny beings upon the outskirts of the forest, upon the side of that high and precipitous rock,— the lily spotless and fair, the magnolia decked in all its magnificence and splendor, the narcissus that sprung from a beautiful youth of the same name, who having become enamored of his beauty reflected in a fountain, underwent so remarkable a metamorphosis. The sun-dew, the sweet-scented mignonette and the marigold vie with each other in donning the apparel most pleasing to the eye and joyful to the inner feelings of the mind; to these may be added the convolvulus or bind-weed, the beauty of which is of a high order, and justly praised and admired.
These, with myriads of others, tell a true story; they speak to our hearts; their silent language is well understood. But what do they say ? Do they speak of wars and rumors of wars, of “tumult and confusion, all embroiled”? Or of the general topics of the day? Or do they speak of some individual in whose welfare and prosperity they take a great interest? The question is not yet answered because it has not been rightly put. Of whom do they speak, then? They Speak of their Creator, the God of nature, in whom they live and on whom they depend. They tell us that a God exists,—a Supreme Being, the Creator and Ruler of the physical world, of the moral world, on whom they entirely depend, and that all creatures are subject to Him.
0 man 1 how soon will you learn to serve God—to know Him, your Creator, your Redeemer? How long will you remain cold and indifferent to that which is demanded of you,—love, charity, and obedience? Does this answer the question that has just been asked ? We fear not; but while we are waiting for a better reply we cannot help admiring the beauty and grandeur of that great king of day, who is about to sink in the western wave, his head crowned with golden rays, through whose medium all objects are exhibited to our view. But does it show anything else? Yes: not chaos though, for in the works of God nothing of the like can be found, as this exclusively belongs to the creations of men. Then it must be order, beauty, harmony unity, truth and goodness— properties which are common to every being. The sun is also the medium of visibility to our souls, replenishing them with a loveliness, beauty and grandeur indescribable. But now the sun has set beyond yonder hills, and darkness spreads itself over the canopy of heaven; gloom seizes upon the face of the earth, and all that resplendent beauty has vanished from our midst; but yet something remains. What is it that now engages all our attention—that seizes upon us and takes entire possession of our souls? Darkness; what is darkness? Let philosophers answer the question: It is the absence of light. Are we satisfied with this definition? Something within us says no; but let us see. That gloom which is now
642
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
spread over the face of the earth has a great effect,' as we have already said, on the human mind. We stand bewildered, lost in contemplation, and yet we are at a loss to know what we are contemplating. Stillness, darkness, night—this is all we can say. But, on the other hand, what is light? Two theories are in existence : the undula-tory and corpuscular.. How does it act upon objects ? How upon ourselves? As we are aware that an action has been withdrawn, we pause, we think, and we strive to reason upon the magnificence of the day, that joy which it causes in the soul; and yet there is something present that surpasses all this, and while we stand in amazement, unable to account for it, our soul seems to quit for a moment or two its tenement of clay and soar aloft on unseeu wings to view unknown worlds, worlds which have never been seen or even imagined until now. Physical and metaphysical beings find a dwelling in our soul—that soul which is always inquiring, striving after, contemplating and questioning. But who shall answer her? Night has passed away—a night of terror, devastation and ruin. Ships have been wrecked and tossed on the bosom of the ocean; sailors have been swept away from the vessels’ rigging to sink beneath the wave and find a watery grave. The mother, the wife and the tender child kept vigil all night, for well they knew its dangers threatened their beloved one, exposed as he was to the mercy of the wind and wave. On land too the losses have been great: the earth washed with the heavy rain; bridges swept away; the lilies and other flowers droop their heads, to all appearance never again to raise them. The proud oak, but yesterday the king of the forest, is to-day prostrate on the earth, and its glory is no more. But what has been the cause of all this? Night, wondrous night, has brought in its train thunder, lightning, wind and rain, sweeping over the face of the earth like proud warriors devastating all before.
The sun is about to rise again in the East, morn awakes, and gives life again to the world. The flowers lift their drooping heads, for the storm has now passed o’er, and a new beauty, grace and elegance seem to draw once more on the face of nature, surpassing everything heretofore seen, whose odor and fragrancy soar .aloft to heaven’s portal. And thus it is day after day, night after night; something, something more striking may be found by our restless souls by which we are carried on unceasingly,— never satisfied, because we are not to be satisfied in this world.
But another scene has taken place, different indeed from others heretofore witnessed. A wild beast, an animal has torn in pieces a mother’s only child. She sees the beast do the act, but is unable to do anything to save her darling boy. What misery, what agony is brought upon that poor mother! What is suffering? Were we made to suffer and to die? Let us speak to the heart, the seat of the.affections; it is still. Where can we find an answer? We are a mystery to ourselves, a mighty enigma, and one that we can never solve. Is there beauty in all this? There is beauty in everything which arises from the Fountain and Source of all beauty, God Himself who is Infinite Beauty. And it is through Him and in Him we can see and comprehend the beauty of this world, which is nothing after all but the reflection of His glory. To know God, to love Him and serve Him, is the end of man on earth, and to be with Him forever in heaven is his destinatination after death. But how can we know God? The idea of God is found in the hearts of all rational creatures. It is natural
for man to know that ,there/ is a Being higher than himself—a Being who created him—and that Being is God, in whom he lives, moves, and has being, whose beauty is that of the wilderness, the solitary night, and cloudless day. The brilliancy of the sun is’His; the glittering of the stars; the broad expanse of the mighty ocean pays tribute to its God; the animals that inhabit sea and land obey Him, and acknowledge His supreme dominion ; all plants and flowers bow in submission to Him. The' angels, those pure spirits, are continually adoring Him aud contemplating His infinite perfections. Learn, then, O man 1 to know and to love your God, and raise your thoughts from the things of this world to where you hope to be happy forever happy with Him. View nature; see what she is if you can; look up to the blue sky, look down at your feet—all things, in unison and harmony, whisper in your ear—“ God is love.”	J.
At Our Wits’ End.
Those who, in moments of utter vapidity, when they have worked down to that inexorable ennui which forms the substratum of every human existence, have turned to the facetious column of a newspaper for consolation, must have been doubly nauseated by finding there a recurrence of the same stale old jokes with which in boyhood’s years they had become familiar. Yet, perhaps, among the juvenile circles which we see springing up around us, there may be some to whom these venerable jokes are absolutely new —that one, for instance, about the sculptor who makes faces and busts, may be, even now, while we write, producing similar contortions of the risible muscles upon some innocent youthful countenance. Oh! the bliss of that moment when we first heard it ourselves! Oh! the rapture that it can ne’er again excite! And there are many such going the rounds.
Let us take up our Dictionaries, and by careful study, after excluding the following classes of words, to wit: (1) Proper Names. (2) Foreign Word*, which are continually introduced into the language, especially French words denoting new styles of dress and cookery. (3) Words invented by scientific men, which are rapidly becoming a linguistic nuisance. (4) Slang terms, expressive but objectionable, which are constantly changing—excluding these, we shall find that in the English language, which is what will remain, there are 39,872 possibilities of making allowable puns. Now, of these, a careful perusal of humorous literature has convinced me that 39,857 have been already perpetrated, leaving a balance of exactly 15 feasible puns, which would be entirely new to the reading public, and which I could make, but WON’T! No; audacious stranger!—tike bick thy gold! Not for the mines of Gol-conda would I consent thus to the utter exhaustion of my mother-tongue. Perhaps, when I am lying upon my dying couch, weak and white, if it should happen that amid the throng of hypocritical mourners shedding their crocodile-tears around me, I could discern one tried, true and trusty friend, I shall beckon him to approach, and dismissing the rest with a wave of my ghastly hand, I shall gasp into his attentive ear the fifteen mysterious syllables— but not till then,—no!—not till then.
But it must not be supposed that we are at our wits’ end, or should be even if the fifteen possible-puns had been ventilated. Thejfour classes of words which I have segregated above present ever new and ever changing facilities. Gaze
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
643
upon the long column lately elaborated in the Scholastic ;	from the resources recently opened up by the Russian War,
t	andsee what can be done with proper names alone. But even
'	the Editor of the Scholastic has not noticed that the present
incumbent of the Vice-Presidency of the United States and his immediate predecessor are named respectively Wheeler and Wilson—what an opportunity for sewing-machine jokes! And how fortunate for the country that Wheeler was r	elected 1 And then the names of popular songs, dramatic
entertainments, etc., present inexhaustible sources of paro-
•	nomasia. There is a Temperance drama going around en-
'	titled the “ Last Loaf.” How pathetic it could be made by
putting it in the form: “ He never loafed again.”
As for scientific words, let us have no mercy on them.
1	In the first place they are bores—not simple bores, but
solemn bores. Minerva herself is a solemn old bore, and Homer knew it. He gets off several good jokes on her, under the pretext of religion, which readers of the Iliad
:	and Odyssey will not fail to note. Oh! that we had a
'	font of Greek type in the Scholastic Office! How I
would revel in it! The indefatigable punster spares no
' pains in the exercise of his vocation. All languages bring grist to his mill; and he sighs for the opportunities of Mez-zofanti, to whom every word he happened to hear must have suggested, in some one of the seventy-eight languages of which he was master, a meaning entirely foreign to the intention of the utterer. But something can be done with Latin alone. Listen to the origin of tuberose, given in the style of one of those “Anecdotes of Philosophers,” in which our infancy delighted:
l	Berosus, philosophus Babylonicus. in hortis peusilibus
?	3 Nabuchodonosore rege structis, cum discipulis suis, se
recreabat. Florem praecellentem tam fonnisitate quam odore videntes, omnes obstupuerunt. Resipiscens autem, unus ex discipulis, aptus blanditiis, “Tu, Berose,” inquit, I’	“ flos es florum et suavitas odorum.” Quo factum est, ut
nomen tuberose huic flori adjungeretur.
How do you like that ?
A Fine Book.
“Bibliophile,” writing to us from St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, says: “Knowing you to be a fine connoisseur of bibliographical treasures, I take a special pleasure in calling your attention to a very valuable book—a real incunabula—which we bought last week at a book-auction sale, paying for it a mere nominal sum of mouey—not the twentieth part of its actual market value,—and which we have this day forwarded to Notre Dame. This book is far too precious for this humble Institution; to have kept it here would have been like hiding a gem in an obscure corner. We, therefore, thought that the fittest place for it—for such a treasure—was Notre Dame, where it will be >• seen and admired in all its superb typography and venerable age by thousands of appreciative visitors for (let us hope) all time to come! It will, most undoubtedly, be the gem of the College Library, worth more than its weight in gold.
I beg to append a short and correct description of it: A D. 1485.—FORT A.LICIUM FIDEL—An Exposition and Defense of the Catholic Faith. This magnificent specimen of Incunabula [Anno Incarnat® Deitatis M.CCCC.LXXXV. VI. Idus Octobris], is from the famous press of Koberger, Nuremberg. It is in Latin, in a beautiful Gothic letter, and every capital brilliantly rubricated by hand. In original binding,
hogskin, on wooden boards. ‘ Tn the goodness of its paper, binding, printing, splendid margins and generally fine condition, this volume, printed before the Discovery of America, is quite exceptional.
The book, as you will see, has no title-page; it never had any, for it was not the custom at that early age to set up a separate page for a title. Furthermore, the date and place of printing and the printer’s name are not placed at the beginning of the book, but at the very end of it, as was customary in the “cradle days” of the printing art. The Latin of the learned author—an illustrious doctor of the Franciscan Order—is far from being elegant; and we meet on every page terms of low Latinity, which make it necessary to have constantly at our elbow Du Cange’s great work—“ Glossarium ad Scriptores mediae et infimae Latini-tatis.” The word “Fortalicium” itself is not to be found in any of our large Classical Dictionaries or Lexicons of the Latin language. I looked for it in vain in the most complete Latin Lexicon that has ever been compiled, viz.: the Lexicon of all Latinity (“Lexicon totius Latinitatis,” in 4 quarto vols.) of Facciolati and Forcellini. But the learned Benedictine, Du Cange, gives it in his Glossarium as Fortalicium or Fortalitium, or better, Fortilicium or Fortili-tinm, meaning a stronghold, a fortress, from fortia.
The two oldest books in the Cincinnati Public Library bear the respnctive dates of 1478 and 1492—the former entitled “Vita Xti” printed by the same Koberger of Nurem-burg, and in the verv same style as our “Fortalicium Fidei" ; and the latter “States Mundi.” So, you see, one was printed seven years earlier than our book, and the other seven years later. I trust that a due care will be taken of this precious book, in procuring which—allow me -to say—I take personally no little pride. It should be kept locked up in an elegant glass case made expressly for that purpose.”
Ingres.
John Auguste Dominic Ingres was born at. Montauban (Dep. Tarn et Garonne) in the year 1780. In his childhood he already cultivated with an equal ardor and with the same success the arts of paintins and music. But he decided to give himself to the first of these arts, and at the age of eleven vears received in the Academy of Toulouse the great premium for drawing and the honors of an ovation at the Capitol. He was at that time filled with intense admiration of Raphael, whom he knew from a copy of the Madonna alia Segqiola, which Rogues, his Professor, had brought with him from Florence. At the age of sixteen, already master of his pencil, he entered the studio of David, notwithstanding his secret repugnance to the ideas of this master. He had had a gli nn*e of the beauty of Raphael ; he admired too much his touch, so true, so flexible and so free in its grandeur, as not to comply without reluctance to the conventional forms of David.
Achilles, receiving in his tent the ambassadors of Agamemnon, and Antiochus sending back to Scipio Africanus his son, captured at sea, are his two first tableaux. The Antiochus received the second premium for painting in the year 1799, and the Achilles the great prize in the year 1802. In 1804, Ingres left at length for his so much desired trip to Italy.
The first tableau, in which he showed his ineffectual efforts at independence, in which he tried to free himself from the tyranny of the flowery Grecian taste which pre-
644
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
vailed at that time, had for its subject (Edipus explaining the riddle. The head of CEdipus especially attracted attention. The simplicity of its position, the firmness of the muscular delineation, and the neatness and exactness of the form which seemed to characterize the paintings of the new master, exasperated all his rivals. In Rome Ingres executed in the saloons of the palace of Monte Cavallo frescoes which had for subjects The triumph of Romulus, conqueror of Acron, king of the Cecinians, a large painting in water-colors, and the Sleep of Ossian, which he painted in oil on the ceiling. Besides these paintings in the palace of Monte Cavallo, Ingres composed a certain number of tableaux during his sojourn in Italy. It is from this epoch that are dated The Sixtine Chapel, Raphael and the Fro-narina, Francesca de Rimini, the Cardinal Bibiena betrothing his niece to Raphael, and Virgil reading his poems before Augustus.
Always pursuing his ideal and never yielding to the taste of the moment, Ingres undertook to teach his critics arid to show them how the study of nature can be combined with the study of ancient monuments, by painting his Great Oda-lisk. The critics raged against him and continually condemned him. But still, after less than thirty years, the paintings of this epoch (1819) have all changed, whereas the coloring of the Odalisk has gained and always will gain in freshness and beauty, time being but able to harmonize works of which all parts are executed with the same conscientious care.
In this period of strife, which lasted for about fifteen years, from 1810 to 1825, Ingres composed,besides the paintings we have spoken of, the following: The Farrier of Berwick, the Arelin, the two tableaux of Henry IV, the death of Leonardo da Vinci, Roger and Angelico, and The Entry of Charles V into Paris.
In 1824, having decided to go back to France, Ingres was anxious to return with all possible splendor. At the Salon of this year he exhibited three paintings and several portraits. One of these paintings, which the author presented to the Cathedral of Montauban, represents the Vow of Louis XIH. It was the most important of the works Ingres had yet composed, aud it is still one of his best productions. Its effect on the public was great, and the admiration of all France recompensed the artist. Criticism, however, was not silenced, and the Madonna of Saint Sixtus by Raphael was the cause thereof. The observations had some foundation, but the reproaches, for which it formed the pretext, were not deserved. Ingres had reproduced a masterpiece of Raphael and at the same time remained original. To imitate thus is to create. This painting opened to its author the gates of the Institute. This time the adepts crowded around the master who preached the glory of Raphael.
The Apotheosis of Homer, the largest composition of Ingres, and by far his masterpiece, dates about this time. The head of Homer is admirable, notwithstanding its extreme old age and its forced and, to a certain extent, Egyptian attitude. It tells perfectly of that strong and fertile old age, the beginning of immortality. The two allegorical figures of the Iliad and the Odyssey, seated on the steps of the sanctuary, recall the most happy inspirations of Grecian art, continued by Italian genius.
Irritated at hearing himself reproached with an imitation of Raphael, Ingres conceived the painting of- Saint Symphorian, which was exhibited at the salon of 1827. This composition, in which tlie Florentine style prevails in all
its ruggedness, reminds us in some parts, and especially in the study of the naked bodies of the personages on the right side, as well as in the energetic gestures of the mother of the Saint, of the grand and violent style of Michael Angelo. The projection of muscles in the executioner is extraordinary; their relief, carried almost to excess, and the singularity of the attitudes, recall a distinct remembrance of the style of the painter of the Sixtine Chapel. The figure of the Saint, and particularly the sublime expression of liis look, belongs altogether to Ingres, and would suffice to constitute the originality of the work.
The brutality of the attacks of some of his critics afflicted Ingres so much that from 1832 to 1834 he exhibited nothing except the portraits of M. Bertin the elder and of the Count Mole.	■
In the year 1835, having been named Director of the Academy of France, Ingres went to Rome. Beyond the reach of his critics, he recovered his courage aud self-confidence, and caused to be copied under his direction the frescoes of Raphael at the Vatican. He sent several new paintings to France, viz.: The Blessed Virgin with the Host, The Odalisque with her Slave, and Straionice, for the Duke of Orleans. This last composition, which Ingres went to Paris to finish, was resold in 1853 for 40,000 francs. The portrait of the Duke of Orleans and that of Cherubini inspired by the Muse date from this epoch. Besides these works, Ingres painted the Birth of Venus Anadyom^ne; Jesus in the midst of the Doctors; the Sweat by the Carthusians; Moliere in his Cabinet; Racine in his Court-robe; La Fontaine hesitating which road to take; Jeanne di Arc at the Anointing of Charles VII (1842-1855); and a portrait of Madame de Rothschild. Ingres, besides, worked at the decoration of the Castle of Dampiere, owned by the Duke de Lugnes. Finally, under the new Empire, he executed in the Hotel de Ville a ceiling representing the apotheosis of Napoleon I, with the legend “ In nepote redivivusf a work which, being considered too perfect for a ceiling, was transferred to Saint Cloud.
In the Universal Exposition of 1855, Ingres collected from all quarters the productions of his brush and was offered a saloon exclusively reserved for them. The masterpieces of fifty years of bis life as an artist were exposed to the admiration of Europe, and the international jury assigned them one of the great medals of honor. In 1863 Napoleon III named the glorious veteran of painting, the disciple and successor of Raphael and David, a member of the Senate. In the same year Ingres received a golden crown, like the conquerors in the Olympic games. This was a present offered the old man by his fellow-countrymen of Montauban, and as a golden crown does not stand well without a little piece of poetry, Pecontal endeavored in the language of the gods to express the sentiments of the people of Montauban. The author of the apotheosis of Homer, it is said, regarded with great delight the sympathies manifested under this classical and academical form.
On Castle-Building,
Of mischievous habits which students are liable to contract, there are few against which they require a more earnest caution than that of indulging in what are popularly called “ castles in the air.” This intellectual luxury assumes very .various forms, according to the character or predominant passion of the individual. We need not here discuss the most detestable species of it, which consists in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
645
brooding over sinful imaginations. That of course so belongs to the threshold of Hell, that it ought to be needless to point out the ruin of the whole character, moral, intellectual, and physical, which is its unfailing consequence. But it may be well just to hint that even where a habit of reverie does not deal with anything absolutely sinful, it is still highly dangerous in many ways to all improvement, and its disastrous effects on the mental constitution can only be compared to those of dram-drinking on that of the body. It weakens the will, enfeebles the power of application and industry, saddens the spirits, and in a word, takes away all the health and vigor of the mind. Both philosophers and saints, both men of the world and ascetical writers, tell you the same, and speak in the very strongest terms about it.
The following passage from Johnson’s Rambler is in point:
'‘It has often been observed that the most studious are not always the most learned. There is, indeed, no grea difficulty in discovering that this difference of proficiency may arise from the difference of intellectual powers, of the choice of books, or the convenience of information. But I believe it likewise frequently happens that the most recluse are not the most vigorous prosecutors of study. Many impose upon the world, and many upon themselves, by an appearance of severe and exemplary diligence, when they in reality give themselves up to the luxury of fancy, please their minds with regulating the past, or planning out the future; place themselves at will in varied situations of happiness, and slumber away their days in voluntary visions.
“There is nothing more fatal to a man whose business is to think, than to have learned the art of regaling his mind with those airy gratifications. Other vices or follies are restrained by fear, reformed by admonition, or rejected by the conviction which the comparison of our conduct with that of others may in lime produce. But this invisible riot of the mind, this secret prodigality of being, is secure from detection and fearless.of reproach. The dreamer retires to his apartment, shuts out the cares and interruptions of mankind, and abandons himself to his own fancy; new worlds rise up before him, one image is followed by another, and a long succession of delights dances around him. He is at last called back to hfe by nature or by custom, and enters peevish into society, because he cannot model it to his own will. He returns from his idle excursions with the asperity, though not with the knowledge, of a student, and hastens agaih to the same felicity with the eagerness of a man bent upon the advancement of some favorite science. The infatuation strengthens by degrees, and, like the poison of opiates, weakens his powers without any external symptom of malignity. This captivity it is necessary for any man to break who has any desire to be wise or useful, to pass his life with the esteem of others, or to look back with satisfaction from his old age upon his earlier years.”—Johnson’s Rambler,No. 89.
So much for the merely philosophical and moral view of the habit of castle-building. It seems tolerably strong, but listen to what Dr. Faber has to say on the same subject. In his admirable book entitled Growth in Holiness, after giving some instances of castle-building, even of the seemingly harmless kind, for instance a religious man’s spending an hour in fancies, such as giving magnificent mental alms, or imagining himself bearing crosses heroically, or founding hospitals, or entering austere orders, or arranging edifying death-beds, and.the like, he says:
“ Do not be startled at the strong words, but this castle-building literally desolates and, debauches the soul. It passes over it like a ruinous eruption, leaving nothing fresh, green, or fruit-bearing behind it, but a general languor, peevish-। ness, and weariness with God.”—Growth in Holiness, by ; Very Rev. Dr. Faber, p. 235.
These are words that ought to sink deep into the heart of every student, because the evil against which they warn, in tunes so awful, is one upon which many a very promising youthful mind has made shipwreck of itself.—Catholic University Gazette.
Dr. Allen.
On Monday, May 28th, Rev. Richard Shortis, C. S. 0., Chaplain at St. Mary’s, celebrated the anniversary Mass in Requiem ,for George Alien, Esq., LL.D.’, late Greek professor in the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Allen was one of the three successive rectors of St. Luke’s, in St. Albans, Vermont, who became Catholics. One of these is the Rev. William Hoyt, lately ordained priest by Cardinal McCloskey. Dr. Allen and Mr. Hoyt were warm personal friends, and came into the Church at very nearly the same time. Dr. Allen was received in Philadelphia by the then Right Rev. Francis Patrick Kenrick, D. D., afterwards Archbishop of Baltimore. He was accompanied in this great step by his wife and all his children, the youngest of .whom learned her catechism from the great theologian, to whom Dr. Allen always looked up as his dearest friend and faithful adviser, and who, in return, took council of his learned penitent in his great work of translating the New Testament. Dr. Allen published a life of Saint Anthony of Padua with a Novena, a few copies of which were printed on vellum, the first vellum printing ever done in the United States. Soon after this he published his life of Philiclor. A few copies of this were also printed oh vellum and sent to the principal collegiate libraries. The accomplished compiler of Familiar Quotations, Mr. John Bartlett, did not hesitate to say that this life of the great chess-player, was “ the most perfect book ever printed in America.”
A few years before Dr. Allen’s death, his English Library, enriched by his own annotations, was purchased by the University of Pennsylvania and called The Allen Library. This Chess Library, the third largest chess library in the world, is not yet sold, but negotiations concerning it have been opened with both home and foreign libraries. The Shakespeare Club in Philadelphia, of which Horace Furniss, Esq., is such a distinguished member, were proud to submit their researches to Dr. Allen, and their forthcoming edition of the great poet, who is so triumphantly vindicated as a Catholic by such authorities as Cardinal Wiseman in England and M. Rio in France, will bear the impress not only of Dr. Allen’s erudition, but of his extraordinary delicacy of perception in the critical reading of the poets.
Dr. Allen was a devoted Catholic, theologically so, since all his devotions were the blossoms of profound dogmas, devoutly cherished and' believed with a solemnity and fervor which sacrifices only increase. The singular modesty of this great scholar and teacher made him a model for the learned of all degrees, and while the sincerity of his interest not only in his favorite studies but in every one who entered his classes, made him enthusiastically beloved by his students, with the Faculty of the University there was but one voice, and that one of such praise as only the Chris
646
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tian gentleman and scholar can deserve. May he rest in peace.	.	.
Scientific Notes.
—Mount Vesuvius shows signs of fresh activity. The crater is continually sending forth clouds of smoke which at night assume a fiery aspect from the deep-lying glowing lava masses.
—Dr. Floyd, of Virginia, has discovered that the substance which gives the negro a black color is first formed in the outer layer of true skin, and that it is probably connected with the loss of vitality of the cells.
—Herr von Horn von der Horck, of Berlin, a very careful and painstaking savant, has been taking casts in plaster of the heads of the Sioux Indians, with the view of more accurately determining the ethnology of the Continent.
—Artificial flowers called barometers are now seen in many Parisian shops. They are colored with a material composed of chloride of cobalt. When exposed to the sun and dry air the leaves become deep blue; when the air is moist they turn pinky.
—We regret to hear that the state of health of M. Lever-rier, the distinguished Director of the Paris Observatory, is causing great anxiety to his friends. He has become entirely prostrated by his enormous labors, which for the last twenty years have been almost unceasing.
—M. De Quatrefages, the celebrated monogouist and anti-Darwimst, has just completed a work bn the human race, and presented it in the French Academy of Aloral and Political Sciences. M. de Quatrefages admits the great influence of heredity and natural selection, but, like Moriz Wagner, he will not admit them to be the greatest factors in the propagation of species.
—Father Secchi, writing to a friend in Belgium, alludes in striking terms to the remarkable connection between the magnetism of the earth and the changes of the weather. He says that the variations shown by the magnetic instruments are themselves sufficient to indicate the state of the sky. Even where there is no gieat movement of the barometer following such magnetic disturbances, there are, especially in summer, changes of the wind and, sometimes, storms.
—If persons opened their windows between six and seven a. m. for ventilation, and then closed them, and also the blinds, and kept them closed all day, they would have their house twenty-five or thirty degrees cooler than outdoors. It is on the same principle as a refrigerator, if the doors are kept tightly closed it will retain its coldness, but if they are thrown open the cold air escapes, the ice melts, and in a short time the refrigerator has the same temperature as the air without.
—In a recent lecture in Edinburgh on the “ Stars,” Prof. Grant said that a railway train, travelling day and night fifty miles per hour, would reach the moon in six months, the sun in two hundred years, and Alpha Centauris, the nearest of the fixed stars, in forty-two millions of years; a cannon ball, travelling 900 miles per hour, in 2,700,000 years; and light, travelling 185,000 miles per second, in three years. Light from some of the telescopic stars takes 5,760 years to reach the earth; from others 500,000 years. These Stars, therefore, may have become extinct'thousands of years ago, though their light comes to our eyes. Alpha Lyra is 100,000,000,000 of miles from us, and its magnitude and splendor are as 20 to 1 compared to our sun. The sun is neither greater nor smaller than most of the stars.
—The celebrated experiment of Ben Franklin, by which he demonstrated the identity of lightning and the common electric spark, was performed by him in June, 1752, at Philadelphia, Pa. Having made a cross-stick kite, he covered it with a silk handkerchief, instead of paper, so that it would stand rain, attached a tail, etc. The upper end of the cross had an iron point, connected by a string to the usual kite cord, which was of hemp. To the lower end of the cord an iron key was attached, and to that a short length of silk ribbon, as a non-conductor, by which the kite-string could be safely held in the hand. In France, Prof. Romas made a kite seven feet high, with a fine wire
interwoven in the string. The kite was raised five hundred and fifty feet, and is alleged to have yielded flashes of electric fire ten feet in length. In St. Petersburg, Prof. Richman, while attempting to repeat Franklin’s experiments, received so heavy a charge of electricity that he fell dead. This was in 1793.
—Helmholtz and other mathematicians.of the first order who have applied their methods of analysis to the subject have alleged that the limit of visibility with the microscope has been reached. This belief is based on the theory that light itself is too coarse to permit the subdivision by which yet smaller objects may be revealed to our most powerful lenses. The limit of visibility has been named as the 180,000th of an inch. But this view is not wholly accepted by microscopists. The Rev. Wm. H. Dalliuger has made experiments which point to a very different conclusion. He employs a new method of practical observation specially adapted to testing this question, and has constructed lenses which carry the limits of distinct visibility far beyond the boundary announced by the mathematicians. Much smaller objects are thus revealed than the theory referred to would indicate as capable of being seen. Furthermore, Mr. Dal-linger does not believe that he has yet reached the limit of division and visibility by instrumental means.
—Mr. A. C. Horner has sent us an account of some interesting observations he has made on the spawning or deposition of ova in the frog {Rana temporaria). We are only able to give the conclusion of his paper: I will now give a few facts connected with respiration which I have obaetved tn these frogs. They can croak when they are immersed under water, but, as no air-bubbles escape, I was at first puzzled. I find, however, by holding my nose and shutting my mouth, that I can make a somewhat similar sound; but they seemed to croak louder when only the head and upper part of the body were under water than when their whole body was immersed, and as they distend their sides in the act of croaking, I thought it possible they might be able to draw in air by the rectum or the pores of their skin. When a hog out of water is touched suddenly he shuts his eyes and distends his abdomen, and the same thing occurs when under water. Yet how is it that they can distend their abdomen withoutadmitting more air? for they can distend it very fully, and 1 should think must require to expel all the air from the thoractic into the abdominal cavity. When a frog is under water his sides sometimes pulsate rhythmically, just as when he is out of water, and about every ten seconds. Perhaps it is connected with the circulation of blood.	_
Art, Music and Literature.
’ —The sixth triennial Handel festival is announced with Adelina Patti, Mlle. Albani, and Mr. Santley among the soloists.
—Rubenstein’s concerts have achieved an extraordinary success. On the 8th inst. the oratorio of “ Hercules ’’ will be given.	_
—Prof. Dowden has finished his “Shakespeare Primer” for Mr. J. R. Green’s series of literature primers published by Macmillan & Co.
—Rud. Aronson has returned to New York. He is at work upon two operas, which he hopes to have completed in time for presentation next season.
—Prof. O. M. Schnurrer, of Notre Dame University, is engaged, by permission of the author, on a German translation of Bishop Gibbons’ “Faith of Our Fathers.” It- will be published shortly by Murphy & Co., Baltimore.
—M. Gounod, finding “Cinq-Mars” a failure, intends to rewrite portions, and to add an overture, airs for De Thou and Harle, and a grand dramatic finale for the third act. In this guise the opera will be again tried in November.
—Brugsch Bey, the eminent Egyptologist, has just published two important works. One, in German, describes the history of Israel under the Pharaohs; the other is a geographical dictionary in French, containing more than 2,000 names of places in Egypt derived from the ancient local monuments.
—Patti, according to a Paris paper, will not sing at the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
647
■
Italiens, Paris, this winter, but forfeit her 100,000 francs guarantee. The same authority adds that she may come to America for the winter season with Nicolini, though negotiations are not yet complete, Patti asking §2,000 a night and Nicolini half that sum. AL Leon Escudier, manager, denies in a later issue that there is any truth in the report.
—Mr. Randolph Rogers has just completed the model of the colossal figure of the genius of Connecticut, which he is making for the new Capitol at Hartiord. It is a winged woman just alighting on the dome, holding in her right hand a wreath of immortelles and in her left a wreath of laurel. The wings are outspread above her head. Mr. Rogers has recently lost by diphtheria a bright little sevenyear old daughter.
—Joel Munsell, of Albany, has published a volume of Indian Miscellanies comprising various interesting fugitive papers concerning the aborigines of America, gathered from magazines and newspapers, thus preserved as annals of the rapidly vanishing race, and will leave no other monument. The different papers deal with different tribes, with their history, their traditions, their habits, their vocabularies and their migrations.
—Verdi has been presented with a leader’s staff, richly worked in gold and ivory, by the members of the choir who executed his ‘■‘■Requiem" at the Cologne festival. A laurel crown in silver and gold was also presented to him on the part of a number of music-loving ladies of Cologne. A copy of the “Rhine Album,” by Prof. Scheureu, with a magnificent title-page specially executed by the author, was handed to Signor Verdi on the part of the committee of the festival.
—Great preparations are making in Louisville for the coming musical festival of the North American saengerbund, which is to open July 9 and continue for one week. There will be a chorus of twelve hundred voices, assisted by an orchestra of one hundred men, and the soloists will be Aime. Pappenheim, Miss Reinman, Miss Louisa Rollwagen, and Mr. Frank Remmertz. The Choral Union, of Cincinnati and other singing societies from there, Chicago, St. Louis, Indianapolis, Cleveland, Buffalo, Ne wYork, and other prominent points participate in the concerts.
—An extraordinary discovery of ancient coins has just been made on the Alontrane estate, a few miles from Cu-pare, Fife, in Scotland, the property of Air. Allan Gilmore. In draining a portion of land the laborers struck on what appeared to be a boulder, but subsequently was discovered to be a pot. A stone was firmly wedged into its mouth, and on being removed it was found that the vessel was filled with coins, the total number of pieces being 9,000. Alost of them have the appearance of a well-worn sixpence, a few are of the size of a florin, though not quite so thick, and a small number are about the size of a shilling. They are all silver, and so far as has been ascertained, of the twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. It is supposed they were used in the reigns of Robert II, Robert III, and David II, and have lain in the earth more than three hundred years.
—The Department of State is in receipt of a letter from Gen. John Aleredith Read, Charge d’Affaires at Athens, reporting the discovery by AI. Stephen Commanderdis, Secretary of the Archaeological Society of Athens, of the monument mentioned by Thucydides as having been erected by Pisistratus, son of Hippias and grandson of the tyrant Pisistratus. The stone, which was lying neglected on the right bank of the Ilissus, southeast of the temple of Jupi-ter Olympus, bears an inscription, of which the following is the translation: “This monument, upon his advent to power, Pisistratus, the son of Hippias, has dedicated in the Temple of Apollo Pythius.” The discovery of this remarkable stone fixes the site of the temple of Apollo Pythius, which was hitherto unknown. The monument has been purchased by the Archaeological Society, and will be immediately transferred to the Aluseum of Varvakion.
—M. Bartholdi, the sculptor of the collossal “ Liberty,” is, according to an article by Charles de Kay in Scribner, for June, the author of a design for a gravestone of singular vigor and boldness, which commemorates the men fallen in the French ranks during the late Franco-German War. What
the feeling in Colmar at annexation to Germany must be, can perhaps be learned from a brief mention of the design. The headstone is severely plain, but massive, and upon it one reads these words only:—" Mortes en Combattant, 14 Septembre, 1870.” The grave is covered by two great slabs of stone, but one of these has been pushed up from below by an arm. This arm reaches out from the dark opening of the gfave, and gropes on the surface of the other slab for a sword which lies near. The arm and sword are of bronze. . The idea of this tomb reminds one of the Gothic ghastliness that pleased Albrecht Durer and the engravers of his day, but the monument is also one of those trumpet-calls, silent but never-ceasing, which keep alive hatred, and finally summon a conquered nation to terrible acts of retaliation.— Boston Pilot.
—The trustees of the British Aluseum are in treaty for the purchase of a copy of the largest bbok in the world. Toward the close of the seventeenth century the reigning Emperor of China appointed an Imperial Commission to reprint in one vast collection all native works of interest and importance in every branch of literature. In the beginning of the following century the Commissioners completed their labors, and were able to lay before the Emperor a very palpable proof of their diligence in the shape of a compilation consisting of 6,109 volumes, entitled “Km ting Koo kin too shoo tseih ching,” or “An Illustrated Imperial Collection of Ancient and Alodern Literature.’’ Only a small edition was printed off in the first instance, and before long the greater part of the copper types which had been cast for the undertaking were purloined by untrustworthy officials, and the remainder were melted down and coined into cash. Accidents by fire and by violence have considerably reduced the number of copies of the imperial edition originally printed, and it is believed that only a comparatively few now remain extant.
—The Beethoven Memorial committee of Vienna, in acknowledging the contribution of four thousand francs from Baltimore to the monument fund, writes to Asgar Hame-rik, director of the Peabody conservatory of music in Baltimore, as follows: “ We see with surprise how, in response to a simple appeal, one of the largest cities in America has been stimulated by means of a festival, in which its best artists and most cultivated inhabitants took part with enthusiasm, to assist in the erection of a monument in the capital of Austria, separated from it by thousands of miles of land and sea. What interest could Baltimore have in a monument to be erected in Vienna, to a composer who produced his works in Vienna, who died in Vienna, if this composer bore not the name of Beethoven—Beethoven, the world’s genius? Here lies the explanation, here is the bridge which connects Baltimore directly with Vienna. It is the whole world which shall erect the monument to the world’s true poet, Ludwig von Beethoven. Vienna is only the executive organ, and is proud to have this mission, proud to be trustee for this object. We beg you, dear sir, to give our heartiest greeting and our warmest thanks to the noble city of Baltimore, and to be kind enough to give to the committee the accompanying lines, wherein we ask their acceptance of our grateful acknowledgment. And, • last but not least,’ we gratefully press your hand, esteemed sir, for the lively interest, you have manifested in the undertaking and tor the success of the whole performance.’”
Books and. Periodicals.
—We have received from F. W. Helmick, Cincinnati, Ohio, “Touch me gently, Father Time.” The music is easy.
—“ Music hath charms,” and to any one interested in music Brainard's Musical World must present many charms. The June number is just received and contains the usual sixteen pages of choice new music and the same of interesting reading matter, nearly all original, edited by Prof. Karl Alerz, one of the foremost musical writers in America. The music in each number is worth more than the subscription price a year—only §1.50, including premium. Send 15 cents to S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland, Ohio, and you will receive a sample copy by return mail.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, June 16, 1877.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should taae it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, JPostpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana
To the Students.
As the scholastic year draws to a close, the Editor deems it proper to say a word to those students who may not return to the College next September, stating briefly why they should continue the generous support given to this paper during the year past.
When leaving College, the student' should not rc’gard himself as bidding good-bye forever to his teachers and companions. Both of these, with whom he has been so intimately connected, are still interested in his career in life, and he, no doubt, has feelings of affection for them. It is in order that this affection may be kept up, that the love for Alma Mater may be kept burning through life, that the Scholastic was founded. It was not started as a money-making affair, and has never been regarded as such. Indeed for many years this paper did not pay expenses. Yet it has been kept up in order that our friends scattered throughout the length and breadth of the land might, by reading the daily record of life at old Notre Dame, have the remembrance of their happy days of boyhood renewed and cherished, and that they might know of the after career of their early friends.
We are sorry that many have neglected to take the paper after they have entered the world. This has happened more from forgetfulness, caused by the distractions of commercial and professional pursuits into which they have entered, than from aught else; for we know that nearly every one leaving Notre Dame goes forth with feelings of great affection for everything connected with the place. Still this neglect is not to the credit of the ex-student, for by his carelessness he has prevented himself from knowing much that was of the greatest interest to him. We trust that none of the present students will fail to renew their subscription, and that they may not, in the hurry and bustle of the great world in which they are about to enter, forget entirely the Scholastic, which has ever been their
paper, we would recommend that all those who do not purpose returning next September subscribe in advance at the Students’ Office. The subscription price of the Scholastic is cheaper than that of any college paper in the United States. It is true that there are some papers pub-ished at one dollar per annum, but these papers are eightpage monthlies, and do not contain near as much reading matter as our weekly. Surely when the price of the paper is so low every old student should take it.
We must confess to some feelings of pride because of the many highly flattering notices which our paper, has received from the press in the United States, and we hope our readers feel that they are deserved at least in part. It will be the endeavor of the manager the coming year to make the literary portion of the paper of more deserving merit, and our friends may rest assured that in our local aud personal columns we will give them every item of interest which may transpire within the College walls or may happen to those who have at any time attended class at Notre Dame and which may come to our knowledge. In conclusion we hereby thank those young gentlemen, members of the Academia, who have generously aided us in our work by furnishing articles, many of which were of considerable literary worth, and beg of those who will be with us in September to imitate the good example set them by these young gentlemen of ’77.
Damon and Pythias.
As most of our readers are already aware, the members of the Thespian Society will play, on June 26tb, the evening preceding Commencement Day, the drama of “ Damon and Pythias.’’ This drama was written by John Banim, the author of the celebrated “ Tales of the O’Hara Family.” It was revised by Richard Lalor Sbiel, and from this circumstance the authorship of it was for a long time attributed to him. It was given to the public, for the first time, on the night of the 28th of May, 1821, at the Covent Garden Theatre.
Everybody knows the story of 11 Damon and Pythias," as told by Valerius Maximus. By Banim the story has not been greatly altered.
The timid and corrupt senate of Syracuse having chosen for its president Philistius, the creature of the military dictator Dionysius, the latter sees, in that choice, the speedy realization of his daring and ambitious views. He instructs Procles, one of his readiest tools, to gull the multitude by divination; and when Damocles, another minion, reminds him of his former degradation from power, at the appeal of Damon,
“The Pythagorean,
Who hangs out his austerity for sale, In frowns, closed lips, and pithy sentences,” the tyrant threatens to visit his opponent, at some future period, with the full measure of his revenge. Instigated by the gold of Dionysius and the eloquence of Procles, the soldiers storm the citadel, and possess themselves of its arms and treasures. As they are returning, laden with spoils, and headed by Procles, they encounter Damon, who reproaches the “obstreperous traitors,” and denounces Dionysius. Procles, burning with rage, brands him for a liar and a traitor, and commands the soldiers to hew him to pieces; which they would have done, but for the opportune entrance of Pythias, who stands between the assassins and his friend. For his sake, being a warrior like them

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
selves, Damon is spared; and then Pythias acquaints him with his affair in Syracuse, which is to espouse Calanthe; and Damon, though troubled in mind, and brooding over a variety of concealed plans for his country’s liberty, promises to be present at the nuptials.
The sudden flight of the Carthaginians at the very mention that Dionysius and his legions were in arms against them, is urged by Philistius to the senate, not only as a reason why they should pardon his unconstitutional attack upon the citadel, but also that they should resign their functions, and crown him king 1 Dionysius had taken the wise precaution to have his armed soldiers and satellites posted around the senate-house, so that when Damon comes to take his seat among that once august assembly, he is rudely obstructed. He, however, forces his way, and earnestly asks, to this scandalous proposition, “Are all content?” Finding his impassioned appeals to the expiring patriotism of his degraded countrymen grow dangerous, Philistius abruptly dissolves the senate, and the abject slaves do homage and kneel to Dionysius as their sovereign! This crowning servility drives Damon to the highest pitch of exasperation. He rushes on the regal tyrant to stab him, but is foiled in the attempt. For this he is condemned to die.
The bridal guests are assembled in the temple of Hymen; the hymn is solemnly chanted; and the betrothed are about to pronounce their mutual vows, when Lucullus enters hurriedly and whispers the bridegroom. All changes to consternation and mystery. Pythias, haggard and terrified, and deaf to the tears and remonstrances of Calanthe, departs with Lucullus.
Damon has implored of Dionysius the respite of six short hours, that he might see his wife and child before he dies. This has been sternly refused. Pythias appears at this trying moment, and demands to be led to the king. The king enters, accompanied by Damocles. Pythias throws himself at his feet, and offers to become hostage for his friend. Astounded at the strange offer—for Dionysius be lieves not in friendship—he grants the request. Damon is released; and Pythias, loaded with chains, is conducted to his dungeon.
In that dungeon he is visited by Dionysius in disguise, who informs him that the tyrant has despatched an armed force to intercept Damon ou his return. He offers him life and liberty, and introduces Calanthe, and his aged father, Nicias, as the companions of his flight. But neither woman’s love nor paternal affection can shake the settled purpose of Pythias to abide the issue—
. “Yet would Hive,
But not dishonor’d! ”
Damon arrives in safety at his villa; and his interview with Hermioue and his child is pathetically described. The anxious, watchful eye of the former discovers the emotion that trembles within him—
' “ Damon, thy cheek, Thy lip is quivering—art sick, or grieved	'
With some discomfiture ? ”
He relates the brief story of his condemnation to death; and the rare friendship of Pythias. “Thou shalt not return 1 ” cries Hermione. But if Pythias was resolved to die nobly, rather than live dishonored, Damon partakes the stern resolution of his friend, and departs, calling Lucullus to bring forth his steed.
Damon.—	Where’s my horse ?
Luc.—When I beheld the means of saving you	.
I could not hold my hand—my heart was in it, And in my heart, the hope of giving life And liberty to Damon; and—
Damon.—Go on! -
I am listening to thee!	.
Luc.—And in the hope to save you
I slew your steed !
“ Six poor minutes only! ” are left for the return of Damon, when the prison gates are flung open, and Pythias advances towards the scaffold, around which'are assembled Calanthe and her mother Arria, Damocles, Procles, the executioner, and guards. Dionysius, still in disguise, hovers, like an evil spirit, round the fatal scene. Hope is now lost forever; and Calanthe takes a last farewell of Pythias. Suddenly a shout is heard!—
“By the gods,
A horse, and horseman! ”	_
Damon rushes in. He has kept his most holy vow to friendship, and in the agony of his joy falls insensible upon the scaffold!
After a brief explanation from Damon as to his perilous delay, Dionysius, advancing between the two friends, throws off his disguise, and pardons the condemned. “ I see,” cries the converted tyrant,
“The glorious spark which the Eternal One Struck from Himself into the soul of man, Blaze up in sueh excelling majesty,	•
It awes, while it illumes my heart.”
The play has been altered so as to be played by male characters alone. In making this alteration, it was not necessary to change any of the essential parts of the play. We have no doubt but the Thespians will bring it out in a manner which will do credit to each member individually and to all as a Society. The moral of the play is such that no one can find the least fault with it ou that score. The parts have all been given out, and the rehearsals will soon commence.
Personal.
—George Maurice, of ’64, is doing a good business in Austin, Texas.
—W. M. Fowler of ’76, is at work in the City Recorder’s Office, at Kokomo, Ind.	.
—A. J. Baca (Commercial), of ’77, is still at his home in Bernalillo, New Mexico.	‘
—Thomas Cashin (Commercial), of ’74, passed through Notre Dame on his way to Ireland.
—Geo. Fishburne (Commercial), of ’76, is now residing at San Francisco, Cal., where he is prospering.
—J. D. Coleman (Commercial), of ’76, is at work in a dry-goods establishment at New Haven, Ind.
—Frank Bartz (Commercial), of ’76, is doing well on the R. R. Line between Peru, Ind., and Cleveland, Ohio.
—Prof. Schnurrer is translating Bishop (Gibbons’ excellent book, “ The Faith of Our Fathers,” into German.
—We were pleased to see Mr. and Mrs. Giddings, of the Lake Shore Road, South Bend, among our visitors last week.
—William P. Fogarty (Commercial), of’76, is doing well in Louisville, Ky. He is working in his father’s dry-goods establishment.
—Rev. D. Tighe, of ’70, left Chicago last Monday on a visit. He will remain in Ireland until September. We wish him ion wyage.
—Chas. L. Saylor (Commercial), of ’76, has lately assumed a position in the W. U. Telegraph office at Sandusky, Ohio, as night operator.
—Mr. Edward Ascher, of ’72, called to see us in company
650
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	,
with Dr. Cassidy, with whom he is on a visit. We were pleased to see him. He now makes his home in Texas.
—John Herman (Commercial), of’76, is assistant operator in the Merchants’ Union Telegraph Office, Desmoines, Iowa. John says that he is doing well, and likes the business first rate.
—We were pleased to see Lawrence F. Wilson (Commercial), of ’70, at the College on Thursday. This is, we believe, his first visit to Notre Dame since his schooldays here. He is in business with his father in Trenton, and is doing well.
—P. L. Proudhomme (Commercial), of ’76, who was previously mentioned as residing at Natchitoches, La., has lately removed to Shreveport, where he is now acting as agent for the steamboat navigation between that city and New Orleans.
—Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C., paid us a short visit on his way home from Chicago, where he had been attending the annual meeting of the American Medical Society. The Doctor is a most agreeable gentleman and we hope to see him again.
—Rev. Francis E. Boyle, the distinguished pulpit orator of Washington, D. C., is to make the closing address at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, on the CommencementDay at that Institution. People attending the exercises at Notre Dame, after hearing Hon. Frank H. Hurd, will have an opportunity of listening to Rev. Father Boyle.
—We regret to announce the death of Dr. T. L. Oldshue, of’67, which occurred June 3rd. The Pittsburgh Evening Journal of June 4th says: ‘‘Dr. T. L. Oldshue, who died yesterday at his residence, Grant Street, was but thirty years of age, but had attained considerable eminence in his profession. He attended Notre Dame University, South Bend, Ind., and afterward Georgetown College, in Wash ington, D. C., and completed his medical studies in Philadelphia. He had been in practice here for some years, and possessing fine social qualifications, made many friends who are much grieved at his death.” All who knew Mr. Oldshue at Notre Dame unite in speaking of the many good qualities which distinguished him.
Iiocal Items.
—We were visited with a heavy hail-storm on the 11th.
—The Students’ Office closes to-day for all accounts of this year.	•
—The Examination of the Graduating Class began last Monday.
—The walks around the upper lake are now much frequented.
—See to it that every one passes a good examination the coming week. -
—Washington Hall will be beautifully decorated for Commencement-week.
—In our next number we will print the programmes of Commencement-week.
—Catalogues will be sent to all students about two weeks after Commencement-Day.
—The members of the Academia will take a luncheon in the woods on next Thursday.
—The members of the Choral Union have been practicing earnestly for Commencement-Day.
—During Commencement-week Mr. Shiqkey will be on hand as usual with his omnibus and coaches.
—We suppose Mr. Bonney will be kept more than busy the coming week photographing societies, etc.
—The mowers have been engaged in cutting the grass on the parks in front of the College and elsewhere.
—We call the attention of all the students to the article on the editorial page entitled “To the Students.”
—The members of the Columbian Society enjoyed a fine picnic on the 14th. Everything passed off nicely.
—All the class-rooms will be turned into bed-rooms to accommodate visitors during Commencement-week.
—The Minims took a trip to the St. Joe Farm on the 14th> when they enjoyed themselves to their hearts’ content.
—All students returning home by way of Niles, Mich., should give the Bond House, A. McKay, Proprietor, a call.
—Notre Dame has just received a new safe, big enough to keep its brainy young men in.—South Bend Herald.
—We call attention to the chauges in the time-table of the M. S. and L. S. R. R., and in that of the C. A. and St. L. R. R.
—Baseball continues to be played during the recreations. The parallel bars, the swings, etc., are not without their patrons.
—Br. Simon made a present of ayoung owl to the Minims, who will treat the bird of Minerva with that consideration due to it.
—The crews of the Hiawatha and of the Minnehaha are out practicing these evenings, and on recreation days, for the coming race.
—It is said that during the hail-storm on the afternoon of the 11th, some few hailstones measuring five inches in circumference fell.
—A number of the children of Notre Dame parish made their First Communion last Sunday, in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
—The Cincinnati Enquirer, a newsy, lively and well-edited daily paper, comes to us regularly. The Cincinnati editors understand their business.
—We expect that those charged with the duty will be prompt in sending in for the next Scholastic the programmes for Commencement-week.
—We trust that all who take part in the exercises of Society Day, Graduates’ Day, the Tuesday Entertainment and Commencement Day will do credit to themselves.
—Messrs. Ireland & Son are prepared to furnish livery teams to all desiring them during Commencement-week. They are at their old stand, opposite the D wight House.
—The Alumni Mass will be celebrated at six o’clock a. m., on Tuesday, the 26th. We hope the singing will be good. The English Te Deum will be sung at the end of the Mass.
—Every one wishing extra numbers of the Scholastic containing the account of the Commencement Exercises should leave their orders, before going home, at the Students’ Office.
—Three additions have been made to the swings in the Senior Department. Exercise on the swings does much to develop the muscles of the arms, and for this reason one should practice on them daily.
—We hope that when the students come back in September the new depot of the M. S. and L. S. R. R., in South Bend, will be built. This depot will be one of the finest, if nov the finest, between Chicago and Toledo.
—The New York Herald is an enterprising paper. It went to the trouble of telegraphing, on the 9th of June, the fact that Monsignor Capel contemplates a visit to America in the autumn;—but we had announced the same thing just one week before.
—We look to the students to inform us of all friends visiting Notre Dame on Commencement-Day. It will be impossible for us to to ascertain the names of all particular friends coming here, and hence are forced to depend upon the goodness of the students.
—There is an old rhyme which says: “ Foolish names, like foolish faces, Are always seen in public places.” We think that there is more truth than poetry in the saying.	.
—Week after next we will print the last number of this, the 10th, volume of the Scholastic. The next number of the paper, Number 1, Vol. XI, will be printed about the 15th of August. In it we will give all, if any, changes in the persondle of the College officers.
—A well has been made just near the Scholastic Office. When anyone comes to us in an excited condition to demand an explanation we will hand him over to the boys, who bring the clear cold crystal water of the well into requisition to cool him off It will work like a charm.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	651-
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean banquet will take place this afternoon, and as the St. Cecilians never do anything by halves the boys will have a pleasant time. The ring this year cost twelve dollars, and we congratulate in advance the lucky young man to whom it may fall. May the most deserving get it.
—Anyone on the premises having Nos. 11,12, and 13, of the current volume of the “Moe Maria,” and Nos. 12, 24, 34, and 38 of tne Scholastic, will, if he does not care to keep them, confer a favor by sending them to the printing-office as early as he possibly can, these numbers being needed to complete sets.
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt of a large aud very choice collection of geodes from Marcus M. Foote, A. M., of Burlington, Iowa. The collection includes several, varieties, those lined with quartz, crystal and chalcedony, predominating. Some of the specimens are unusually large and beautiful.
—We have received from Air. Fassett, of the South Bend Tribune, and Secretary of the Editorial Association of Northern Indiana, an invitation to the regular Annual Convention of the Association to be held at Auburn, DeKalb County, June 21 aud 22,1877. As these days in June are our'busiest, we fear that we will be unable toatteud.
—The pupils of the Alanual Labor School at Notre JDame are making great progress not only iu learning their trades but in their studies. Every day a certain number of hours are devoted to study, a reasonable portion of the time being given to the trades aud to recreation. Some of the pupils are quite ready with bat and ball, and are not backward in other games.
—Week after next we will publish a full account of all the exercises of Commencement-week both at the College and at St. Mary’s Academy, together with a list of the honors, premiums, eic., aud the roil of honor for the week ending Wednesday, June 27th. Every one, should remember that the roll of honor will be made out~up to the last day. We hope it will be good and large.
—We have been told that there will be a large number of the Alumni at the Commencement Exercises this year. The College authorities would be only too well pleased to have every one of them present, and not only the Alumni, but all who have ever attended class here. The pleasure of meeting old friends is enough to compensate the visiting student of other days for the slight expense in coming-
—Many persons are ignorant of the beautiful symbolism of green vestments which will be used next Sunday. The Church employs this color to teach us that iu the birth of Jesus, who is the Flower of the fields (Cant., 11) we first received the hope of salvation, and that after the bleak winter of heathendom and the synagogue there opened the verdant springtime of grace. As a color, green is emblematic of hope.	•
—The College Librarian states that the following vol. umes have been taken from the Library and should be returned immediately: namely, Patrologie, Vols. 78, 135,139, 140, 141, 142, 143; Catechwne Phdosophique, Vol. I; St. Chrysostome, Vols. l and III. Those having any of the above will confer a great favor either by returning them or informing the Librarian that they have them in their possession.
—Henry C. Wentworth, General Passenger and Ticket Agent of the Michigan Central RR., writes to us saying: “ That you may be able to answer the numerous enquiries respecting reduced rates over this Company’s Lines July 4th, I beg to inform you that we shall sell Excursion tickets from and to all stations J uly 3d and 4th at one fare for the round trip, good to return on any trains of the 4th and 5th. Ample provision will be made to accommodate all.”
—In our daily walks we frequently come across the names of certain students. It would seem as though some had a mania for having their names inscribed in conspicuous places. We look upon it as absurd and foolish. They themselves, no doubt, will look upon it in the same light in time to come; and if in after years they visit Notre Dame, what they now take pride in gazing upon would then cause the blush of shame to mantle their cheek.
—Let every one taking part in the Exercises of Commencement week, no matter how small that part may be, endeavor to do it in the best manner possible. If all do this there can be no doubt but that everything will pass off to the satisfaction of all our friends. There is an abundance of talent in the College, and those possessing it should utilize it during Commencement-week. Let everyone see to it that this Commencement surpass those of former years.
—Bro. Daniel, C. S. C., director of the Cathedral School at Alton, Ill., and his confreres have returned to Notre Dame much earlier this year than usual, on account of the burning of the Bishop's house in Alton on the 25th of May. They had to close the school, as Bishop Baltes was compelled by the accident to take up his residence in the school-house until the episcopal residence is again in repair, which will be in time to allow the opening of the school in September.
—If any student be disappointed in not receiving an honor or prize on Commencement-Day, let him ask himself the question: Who is to blame? and, most assuredly, his conscience will answer: I alone am to blame. The authorities are only loo well pleased to confer honors on any number of their students—the more the better. The prefects many students do well for four, or five, or six months, and then fall off. They should be goverend by the Scriptural injunction: “ Only he that perse vereth unto the end shall be saved.”	.
—We can conscientiously recommend to the attention of our readers understanding the French language the Echo des Beux-Mondes, published in Ne w York by Alfred M. Cotte. It is the only Catholic paper in the French language published in New York, which is one recommendation for it. In a literary point of view, too much cannot be said of it; its articles are able, instructive and entertaining, at the same time giving the news of the day in full. A specimen copy will be sent any one of our readers on his making application to the publishers, P. 0. Box 2,694, New York city.
. lX—We can promise all attending the Commencement Exercises this year an excellent programme. On Society Day (June 23) we believe the exercises will be far iu advance of those of former years. ’ On Graduates’ Day (June 25) the orations of the young men who have finished their studies will be of much merit. On Tuesday (June 26) there will be a meeting of the Alumni and a banquet, a boat-race in the afternoon, and in the evening a literary and dramatic Entertainment, at which the Thespians will play “Damon and Pythias.” On Tuesday (June 27) the valedictory} etc., will be given, and Hon. Frank Hurd will deliver the oration of the day. The degrees will be conferred, honors awarded and premiums distributed. A lunch will be prepared for invited guests, and, that over, the Commencement Exercises at St. Mary’s will begin.
—Now that the work of the year draws to a close, we .congratulate our brother editors of the Catholic college press on the success achieved by them during the past ten months. If we have not devoted a column each week to the praise or abuse of them, they must not attribute it to a want of interest in their welfare. On the contrary, we were always pleased when we tore open a wrapper to find one of the college journals, and we have taken great pleasure in reading the college news, of the success of the students, and everything connected with the institutions from which the papers came. That we did not aud do not intend opening an “ exchange column ” is because we cannot see that our readers would derive any benefit therefrom. We wish our brother editors every success the coming year. We hope their subscription lists, crowded with the names of their alumni, may be swelled to metropolitan proportions, that the young men educated by tne institutions which they represent may never leave them without copy, and lastly we wish them all a pleasant vacation. The following are the Catholic college journals published in the United States: the Georgetown College Journal, of Georgetown, D. C.; the Niagara Index, of the Seminary of Our Lady of the Angels; the Salesianum, of St. Francis’ Seminary, near Milwaukee; the College Message, of Cape Girardeau, Mo.; the Archangel, of St. Michael’s College, Portland, Oregon; and our own paper. -
652
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The following concerning the St. Cecilians’ Entertainment we take from The South Bend Herald: “Tuesday evening is best adapted for exhibitions at Notre Dame, as the Wednesday following, being recreation day, gives the students opportunity for relaxation and rest. Hence, the celebration of the Pope’s Golden Jubilee was deferred till Tuesday evening. Washington Hall was decked in beauty for the occasion. Wreaths and streamers of evergreen twined round the columns and hung in graceful curves from each of the four corners, meeting in the centre in an immense floral sphere, from which gaily floated the flags of all nations, a type of the universal Catholic Church, which is broad as the earth and boundless as Time, all meeting as one to extend honor and homage to the spiritual Ruler of the world. On the stage and in the dressing rooms below were gathered the young gentlemen of the St. Cecilia Society, who with their able Director, Prof. Lyons, had charge of the Entertainment. Whatever they undertake is always well done, and the University is justly proud of them. The programme was long and varied, and moved along with such rapid symmetry that the large audience heeded not how rapidly time flew, so intensely were they absorbed in the admirable Entertainment. The Cornet Baud discoursed its excellent music, the Choral Union sang the grand ‘Jubilee Hymn of Pope Pius IX’ and showed the perfect harmony of male voices to the best advantage. The address of the evening, a beautiful poem, was well rendered by A. J. Buerger. We have room tor only a few stanzas [We omit the stanzas, as the whole poem was published last week.—Ed. N. D. Scholastic]. The declamation, ‘Italy in 1847,’ by F. W. Cavanaugh, was well spoken. Au address was read by A. Widdicombe, a declamation well rendered by E. McGrath, the prologue by Ralph J. Golsen completed part first. ‘ The Midnight Intruder ’ was a very laughable farce, in which Masters M. Kauffman (as Timid); J. Hagerty (as Bob); J. Phelan, G. V. Sampson and others took good parts. Then followed the play of the evening, a tragedy in five acts, by Rev. Leo Haid, 0. S. B., and played for the first time in the West. It is a military play ol the Revolutionary struggle, entitled ‘ Major John Andre.’ The language of tne play is chaste and elegant; its dramatic situations effective, while its historic characters rendered every paragraph interesting to men who love their country’s honor. The immortal Washington never appeared more noble than when he says: ‘I would gladly give my life to save Major Andre, but cannot peril my country’s honor.’ The part was grandly taken by Colly J. Clarke. The hero of the play, ‘Major Andre,’ was truly personated by A. J. Buerger. He was our exact ideal of melancholy, yet passionate, warm-hearted, impulsive Andre, ready to surrender his life at his General’s bidding. ‘Sir Henry Clinton’ reflected credit on A. Widdicombe. He made a good officer. ‘ Benedict Arnold, the Traitor,’ was brought out to perfection by C. Hagan, as was also the ‘Hunchback Tory, Smith,’ by J. Hagerty, and the old man, Major Andre’s father, by W. Ohlman. One of the humblest characters in the play, ‘ Williams,’ ranked as the best, was rendered by Otto Lindberg, who takes the-Irish comedy to perfection. Clinton’s page (F. McGrath) was the prettiest and best page we ever saw. G. Sugg, as ‘Admiral Graves,’ was good; ‘Major Talmage,’by Ralph, Golsen, was excellent; and Cols. Clinton and Jameson, by C- V. Larkin and G. Sampson, fairly good. ‘ Paulding ’ and ‘Van Wert,’ by R. P. Mayer and W. F. Haky, were brave and true. Money could not buy them, and we owe them a debt of gratitude. ‘Col. Carleton’ who insults ‘Arnold,’ and is wounded by him in a sword combat, was well taken by T. Fischael; ‘Knyphause’ and ‘Robertson,’ by M. B. Kauffman and T. Nelson, were brave soldiers, aud made a fine appearance. Washington’s Generals were well represented by S. D. Ryan, G. P. Cassidy, J. Mosal, F. Cavanaugh, G. Crawford, J. Phelan, C. Faxon, and C. Walsh. The guards were J. Rothert, E. Moran, A. Hatt, C. Orsinger, A. Bergck, N. Vannamee, J. Perea, J. Healy and F. Carroll. The tableau at the end of the filth act was positively grand, reflecting the highest credit on Prof Lyons, whose wonderful taste in arrangement and scenic effect made it such a success. The epilogue by Colly Clarke in the character of‘Washington’ was touchingly beautiful. Rev. President Colovin made the closing remarks to one of the most interesting and best managed exhibitions ever held at the University.”
Boards of Examiners.
[The following Boards of Examination will occupy the same rooms and examine the same classes as heretofore. —Director of Studies.]
CLASSICAL BOARD.	'
Rev. P. J. Colovin, President; Rev. T. E. Walsh, Secretary; Rev. R. Shortis; Rev. J. A. O’Connell; Rev. F. Gleason; Rev. C. Kelly; Mr. N. Stoffel; Prof. J. A. Lyons.
SCIENTIFIC BOARD.
Rev. J. A. Zahm, President; Rev. J. O’Keefe; Mr. A. Kirsch; Mr. D. Hagerty, Secretary; Prof. T. E. Howard; Prof. W. Ivers; Prof. A. J. Stace.
COMMERCIAL BOARD.
Rev. P. J. Colovin, President; Prof. L. G. Tong; Prof. Wm. Ivers; Prof. J. A. Lyons; Prof. 0. Schnurrer; Prof. J. Edwards; Bro. Philip Neri.
PREPARATORY BOARD.
Mr. T. Collins, President; Mr. J. Rogers, Secretary; Mr. T. McNamara; Bro. Francis de Sales; Bro. Leander; Bro. Paul; Bro. Francis Assisi; Bro. Laurence; Bro. Philemon; Mr. Toland.
BOARD OF MODERN LANGUAGES.
Mr. P. Kollop, President; Mr. M. Fallize, Secretary; Mr. P. Johannes; Bro. Philip Neri; Bro. Basil; Prof. O. Schnurrer.
BOARD OF FINE ARTS.
Rev. E. Lilly, President; Bro. Basil; Bro. Leopold, Secretary ; Bro. Albert; Prof. O. Schnurrer; Bro. Celestine.
BoH of Honor.
[In the following list are tbe names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of tbe Faculty.]
SENIOR. DEPARTMENT.
3. Burke, J. Brice, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, W. Dechant, J. G. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, A. Hertzog, J. F. Krost, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, J. Lambin, J. Larkin, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. W. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, J. Murphy, J. McEuiry, W. McGorrisk, J. O’Rourke, L. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, E. Riopelle, M. Regan, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, P. Tamble, F. Van- . dervannet.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, A. Bergck, T. Barry, W. J. Brady, J. A Burger, J. Bell, J. Boehm, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, H. Canoll, J. Carrer, C. H. Colwell, J. G. Duffield, G. H. Donnelly, J. English, C. Faxon, T. Fischael, L. Garceau, R. French, J. L. Healy, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, G. J. Ittenbach, R. E. Keenan, O. W. Lindberg, John Lomax, J. Lumley, F. T. McGrath, J. Mosal, J. Mungoven, E. Moran, R. P. Mayer, T. Nelson, W. H. Ohlman, C. T. Orsinger, J. O’Meara, E. J. Pennington, F. T. Pleins, E. F. Poor, F. Phelan, J. L. Perea, W. Rogers, I. Rose, F. Rheinboldt, J. H. Rothert, J. P. Reynolds, G. Sampson, K. L. Seanlan, J. R. Schoby, G. E. Sugg, A. Sievers, J. Sill, J. Stewart, W. Taulby, C. Van Mourick, W. Vander _ Heyden, T. Wagner, L. Wolf, W. Champlin, C. Walsh. •
—The display of paintings and drawings executed by the pupils in the Art School is very creditable, and elicits the praise of all who visit St. Luke’s Studio.
—Rev. Father. Boyle, of Washington, D. C., will deliver the oration on Commencement-Day, June 27th, at St. Mary’s Academy. As the reverend gentleman has great reputation as a pulpit orator, a great treat is expected.
—The examination in instrumental music commenced on the seventh inst. and will continue until all except the two highest classes have been examined. These will be re
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
653
served for concert day. The students in the Graduating Class are being examined before a special bureau.
—Dr. Joseph Toner, of Washington, D C., visited Sl Mary’s Academy on his return from the Medical Convention lately held in Chicago. He was present at the distribution of the weekly notes, and after the distribution gave all the benefit of some very interesting remarks on the science of Cosmography.
—The students of Latin, French and German will be examined on the 17th. The general examination in English studies will commence on the 20th and end on the 25th inst. The examination in each department will be thorough; each student will be allowed sufficient time to do justice to herself. Notes of individual merit and standing will be given. The class average will be published in the regular report.	•
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet ‘of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, 'J. Bennett, J. Nunning, L. Beall, A. Byrne, E. O’Neil, L. Kelly, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, A. Reising, H. Russell, C. Morgan, H. Hawkins, A. Cullen, E. Lange, M. and E. Thompson,, E. O’Connor, S. Moran. M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, L. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, B. Siler, E. McGrath, K. Kelly. M. Dunn, M. Casey, H. Millis, L. Tighe, M. Pomeroy, M. Smalley, _S. Cash, M. Halligan, C. Ortmeyer, M. Usselman, I. Cook, J. Burgie, S. Rheinboldt, 100 par excellence. Misses P. Gaynor, H. Julius, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, M. Spier, C. Boyce, E. Rodinberger, B. Wilson, M. Schultheis, A. Cavenor, G. Breeze, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, K. Martin, K. Gibbons, M. ' Plattenburg, M. Hungerford, A. Miller, L. Weir, C. Thaylor, L.
Brownbridge.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, D. Gordon, A. McGrath, L. Chilton, J. Kingsbury, E. Parsons, L. Cox, M. Lambin, L. Vannamee, L. Ellis, M. Cox, N. Hackett, M. Mulligan, A. Getty, A. Williams, J. Butts, E. Wooten, F. Fitz, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Ewing, M. Redfield, A. Morgan.
St Mary’s ^cathmy.
(One Milo West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED Bl THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beantifni and picturesque bank, of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All rhe branches of a solid and complete edncation are taught here. Mesic, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to th» educational requirem' nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every portion ol the building is heated by steam, and ‘hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments. '
The grounds are very extensive, beauiifnlly adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to thehealthfnl development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Price 25 cts., postpaid.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOTTrnST-A-I,
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS K., AND MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henbi Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author op “ Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” ■ etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
One Year.........................................$ 2 50
Five Years........................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each)..20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News. Company, 39 & 41 Chamber St., New York.
Contents.
Introduction—Astrological Predictions—Eclipses—Days of Obligation—Fasting Days—Time—Calendars—Festina Lente—Student’s Triumph—Il Ciriegio—What the Church has Done for Civilization—Peanuts—Alanus de Insulis— The Old Church—Have We a Climate—Commencement Ode—A New French Novel—Sunshine Glistens after Rain —Sidney Smith—Leap Year—Batchelor Sketches—Count Von Gutzendorf’s Ghost—The Miser—Building Castles— Hodie Mihi; Gras Tibi—Building a Bonfire—The Cake of the Dismal Tramp—Meeting of the Waiters—Plato on the Immortality of the Soul—On the Wide Atlantic—Cowper —Dante and Pope Celestine V—A Model Student—Have we Deponents in English—Geology and the Development Theory—Oration of W. J. Onahan—Haunted House— Answer—Squeamisbness—Republic of Plato—Father De Seille.
Orders should be sent to	-
J. A. LYONS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
t
JAMBS BONNEY
THE FHOTOGBAPHER
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts./
SOUTH ZBZETTZD, TJSrTDTA.JSTA-
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to
*'1
654
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Hallway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA. LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California. Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
' CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its ,
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton”. Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and; Minneapolis. Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern. Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.	•
Close connections made at junction points with trains of all cross points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bemember. you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & NorthWestern Railwav, and take none other.	~
New York Office. No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office. 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	'
W. H. Stbnnett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST, LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES. Union Depo’, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street. Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City - nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, D and Louisiana. Mo............8	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line..............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express...................... 3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm ’ Joliet Accommodation......................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen.^Supt.. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story flame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER TN
Watches, Clocks,
AND
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABEE.
MAY 20,1877.	.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 p.m.	9 00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M
Rochester,			12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,		3.10 A.M.	12 50 p.m.	535 “	11.00 “
Orrville,		446 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55'p.m.
Mansfield,	7.00 “-	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,	; Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,	."	9.25 “	7.35 “	11.15 “	
Lima		10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,		1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.	.				
	No. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pae. Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	4.45 p.m.	
Plymouth,		2.46 a.m.	11.25 “	7.50 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.10 P.M.	9.55 “	
Lima,		8.55“ -	4.05 “	11.25 “	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.20 “	12.20 a.m.	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	1.35 “		
Crestline					 Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	1.40 A.M.	6 05 a.m
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.44 “ ■	205 “	6.55 “
Orrville,			2.30 “	9.38 “	3 40 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		4.05 “	11.15 “	5. 03 “	1120 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	6 9 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	7 0 P.M.	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Dally. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Carb from Chicago fo Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
'	fF. BJMYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
655
Attorneys’ at Law.
BROW iN & HA-Fl v At; Y (E M. Brown of ’65),' Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER <& MITCHELL (N. S Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady Si., Davenport, Iowa.
T UCIU8 G. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor J_J at Law, and Real Estate Agent, Room No 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
milOMAS B. CEIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all' the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.	•
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and
Randolph sts., Chicago, III.
JOHN IT. AIcAJHj GrFI [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DOUGE a DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a* Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MCBRIDE «fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLIAM J. CL ARKE (of’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A.. O’REILLY-of’69—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday. May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 22 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 50 p m;
Cleveland 10 30 p m; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrive# at Toledo 10 56 pm; Cleveland 144 am; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40am: Cleveland, 7 (5 am; Buffalo, 1 05pm.	.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
05 am,Pacific Express. AmvesatLaporte5 50am; Chicago
•i 38 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 45 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
•T. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
, J. H. PARSONS, Shp’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
TOWLE & ROPER,
■WHOLESALE DEALERS IN
CIGARS 41 & 43
CECTCJLG-O, ■
3 TOBACCO,
Wabash Avenue,
- • TULTisrois.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
Organ for Sale
CTML PROCTOR fof ’75], Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.	■	'
A BTHUB J STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for ZA_ St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
THE C ATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A.VE MARTOV, a Catholic journal devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Satnrdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.

Hotels.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass C. 0. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, C. 0. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price. $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address
Very Rev. A. GRANGER, C. S. C.,	.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Sets ’Em Up
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGtAZRS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
34 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
mHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, MichI igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THEMATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre D*me visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy
656
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
OZEH2ICJLG-O, ILLITTOIS.
SSICKEY, PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE!
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, by permission. to the Superiors of both Institutions.
H. S HICKEY.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agenc' has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only ayvard and medal given to any Amer ican for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an ex cellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spee’es number indicates the place of any mineral in the tab’e of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Tne large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Mineralo on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1,500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 1<X) illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens •
25	50	100
in box in box in box
100
200
300
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-May 13, 1877.
	♦Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 33 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles .	9 01 “	12 15 “	8 20 <•	9 00 “	12 35 am
“ Kalamazoo..	10 50 “	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson.	2 15 p.m	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 45 “	6 20 “	8 40 “	3 35 “	8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	4 45 p.m	6 05 p.m	9 50 p.m
“ Jackson....	10 20 “	12 15 p.m	8 00 “	9 30 “	12 45 a.Qi
“ Kalamazoo..	1 16 p.m	2 40 “	5 00 a.m	12 16 a.m	2 53 “
•“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 50 “	2 35 “	4 24 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 02 “	4 05 “	5 47 “
Ar. Chicago..	6 55 “	7 40 “	10 15 “	6 30 “	8 00 “
INiles and South Send Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—815 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 22 •	6 35 •• Ar. Niles— 8 55 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	6 56 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame— 7 25 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 30 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B; Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Hl.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Agent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BENO, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
*	s 30-1
Look to Tour Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Slerman House, Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Crystals and fragments.....	§ 50 §1 §1 50 | § 1
Students’ size, larger.....	150	3	6 I 5
Amateur's size, 2% in. x 1*4.....'.............I	10
High School or Acad.size,2^4x354 in shelf specimens | 25
CoHege size, 354x6 in., shelf specimens ....	[ 500
§ 2
10
25
50
100
$ 3 25
50 100 300
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to he the "
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m.	3 45 p.m.
Pern accommodation.................. 5	00	p.m.	9 35	a.m.
Night Express.......................10	00	p.m.	6 50	a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy.
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Scienc.
Ufe Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural z History, Central Park, New York.
M. Livingston & Co.,
-AZRZE THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 91 MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND