The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”	:
Volume VI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 15, 1873.	Number 23.
, Cramming1 in College.—II.	-
BY 0. S.
It has been, shown from the nature of the human mine, that cramming is necessary to a solid education; it will now be shown from the nature of the various branches of science that cramming in college cannot be dispensed with. We begin with the languages, because language is the very stem from which the manifold branches of science shoot out, and spread in every direction, expanding into a wonderful tree of knowledge. By language we become conscious of our own ideas as well as of those of our fellowmen. - By speaking, we learn to think; and there is no such thing as knowing and understanding a subject thoroughly until we are able to express it in adequate language. Hence it is that the study of languages, both our own and foreign, ancient and modern, always has been, and ever will be, looked upon as the “ conditio sine qua non" that is, the foundation of all scientific progress. And in many countries of the Old World, no professional man, as for instance a lawyer, physician, surgeon, chemist, apothecary or druggist, and frequently not even the merchant’s clerk, would be considered as fit for his vocation unless he had prepared himself for it by first spending several years in philological studies, such as Latin and Greek and one or two of the modern languages, besides his own native tongue; whilst it cannot be denied that in other parts of the world, not a thousand miles from here, even some ministers of the Gospel {risum teneatis, amici!) seem to get along very well in their theology, without being cramful of the Latin language or the Holy Ghost either.
Aye, if languages could be learnt by putting the grammar under a pillow and taking a snooze over it, Latin scholars would be. as plenty as blackberries on a summer morning; but it requires toilsome, slavish, despicable cramming. Or, if languages could be learnt, at least, through some process of stern, inflexible logic, there would still be a fair prospect of training a respectable number of linguistic scholars; but, alas! ever since the time that the original, universal and fundamental language with which God endowed the human race at the beginning, and which must have been in perfect agreement with the nature of the things it represented, has been lost through sin, language has become what it now is, a fickle, unstable, crooked and unaccountable conglomeration of sounds and symbols, properly called by Holy Writ “a confusion of tongues.” And does it not take years and years of dull, tedious work to get through, our English spellers and definers only? Then again through readers and grammars ? Next those confounded genders and de
clensions of Latin, Greek, French and German nouns; those conjugations of verbs, both regular and irregular; and last, but not least, the perplexities of syntax, with its rules and countless exceptions? What has reasoning or profound thinking to do with the learning of a language ? The arbitrary sounds which carry the words to the ear, the varied symbols that convey them to the eye, ever since the times of Babel, have defied all reason; they must be planted and deeply sunk into the elementary domain of the mind,—that is, into the memory. We must take language as we find it, not as we would have it. De gustibus non est disputandum—why notdisputandibus? as said the “ blue-stocking;” who was not very wrong after all; or,-Jupiter, Jupitra, Jupitrum, as one of our tyros had it not long ago; or mensa, mensarum, mensibus, as one of the royal princes of Germany wanted it, when his diplomatic professor informed him that it might be so, but usually was the other way. And though it is undoubtedly true that by the use of language we learn to think, yet, to learn a language, we need very little reasoning, but thorough memorizing or cramming. Hence it is that the study of languages must be commenced at an early age, when memory is in its full vigor; and the reason why so many colleges turn out but a limited number of linguistic scholars is that cramming is despised, and memorizing at a discount; or frequently, also, because it is delayed to a time when memory has lost its elasticity.	.
And now leaving languages, and climbing our tree of knowledge higher up, we find it soon branching out according to the principal notions of “ time and space,” into three mighty arms: that of History, on which hang Theology, Law, and cognate sciences; that of Geography, with its ramifications into the natural sciences, such as Geology, Mineralogy, Botany, Zoology, Physics, Chemistry, Medicine, etc.; and that of Astronomy, with its lower and higher mathematical boughs and twigs; embracing and uniting, as it were, .the other two into one harmonious whole. However, before proceeding any farther, we rise to explain, for fear of being misunderstood by some of our friends. We do not mean to class Astronomy or History, or any other science, superior to Theology; neither do we mean to climb to heaven on any of the branches of human science; we are fully aware that the tree of human knowledge has its roots in this earth of ours, and its top not far above the clouds; but, as a natural tree may be improved by grafting, so also the symbolical tree of science; and on the branch of History has been engrafted a scion of heavenly revelation^ Theology, which, unfolding itself into a supernatural tree of faith, and agreeing in beautiful harmony with true science, entwins the heavens and the earth. ,	.	.	“
178	THESCHOLASTIC. f
Taking up the study of History, what is it that stares-ns in the face from the beginning to the end? Why facts, sir, stubborn facts, and oftentimes most disagreeable and uncalled for facts. History is a record of past events; an account of things that happened long ago; a statement of facts beyond our control. And as we cannot make lan-, guage by any process of reasoning, so we cannot make History; neither can we undo it, but must take it as we find it. That Paradise was in Asia, and not in Prussia; that Noe’s ark landed on Mount Ararat, and not on Mount Washington ; that the Israelites went through the Red Sea, and not the Black Sea; that the law was given from Mount Sinai, and not from Mount Chimborazo; that the keys of heaven were given to St. Peter, and not to Luther, nor to Calvin either; that Solomon became a fool in his old age, whilst emperors gave up their crowns for a cloister; that Scipio Africanus was a Roman, and not an Irishman; that Ctesar was murdered by Brutus, and not Brutus by Caesar; that the Austrians were defeated at Solferino, and the French at Sedan; that the Jesuits were driven out by Bismarck, and that the Houses of Congress need whitewashing rather too frequently; all these, and many other pleasant and unpleasant things are facts, at which we cannot get by a process of profound reasoning or subtle demonstration, but by simply listening to sound, concurring testimony; and thus the study of history, in the main, always has been and always will be a cramming process. And if you would study history critically, you must first cram and digest not only sundry ancient languages, but also the whole archaeological apparatus, together with papyrus scrolls, old manuscripts, and Egyptian hieroglyphics. After that, you may try a little independent theorizing, generalizing, and philosophizing of your own, being careful, however, not to run off the track, as did Strauss, Renan, & Co. So much for history. In the study of law, cramming comes in No. 1; cramming of pandects and canons, cramming of codes and constitutions, cramming of statutes and usages. In theology, everything is given and received on the strength of divine authority and revelation, written or oral tradition; Exegesis, Dogmatics, and Ethics, are all ready-made; everything is complete, concise, and perfect; •the parts not contradicting one another, but in perfect harmony with the whole; a logical structure without the shadow of a fault; a temple more wondrous than Solomon’s, having its foundation on a rock, its pinnacles in heaven; a workmanship which, as it did not.spring from human hands, cannot be improved by human hands; and all that a theological student has to do is to open his mind, receive the riches of wisdom, admire their beauty, and learn to apply them for his own good and that of his fellow men; whilst the teachers and doctors of theology can hardly do more than act as guides to open and show the treasures; and as stewards, to wipe off the dust that might from time to time settle down upon them. So much for Catholic theology. And as to Protestant, Mahometan and Pagan theology, which should be rather called mythology; there may be found in it very little worth while cramming; hence its admirers are at liberty to turn as many mental somersets, do as much profound thinking, and build as many castles in the air as may suit their tastes. They are above cramming, and would rather, ten thousand times rather, sail over the storm-tossed “Protestant ocean” {Lafayette Monthly, HI, 2, p. 33,) in an empty nutshell, than take in a cargo of precious merchandise. Verily: “Es irrt der Mei sell, so lang er lebt." {Ibidem.)
Proceeding to the study of Geography, we meet again the cramming process. Geography being a description of the earth’s surface, and, in a wider sense, also that of its mineral, vegetable and animal productions, all we can do, to get acquainted therewith, is to listen attentively to that description, or else go and inspect the earth ourselves from the North pole to the South pole. To distinguish mountains from mountains, rivers from rivers, and oceans from oceans—to learn their length and breadth, their height and depth, their relative positions and their manifold productions, we must have recourse to cramming, and if we do our cramming well and systematically we shall soon have laid the foundation for new studies, such as Geology, Mineralogy, Botany, Zoology, Ethnology, etc. Criticising and philosophizing would not come in until we had, like the great geographers, first crammed an immense material of facts; and even then we ought not to forget the philosopher who, wondering why cucumbers and pumpkins did not grow on the mighty oak, was struck on his nose by a little acorn dropping from the tree, thus learning that all things were wisely ordained. For Mineralogy, Botany, and Zoology, all depends on cramming, since the individual minerals, plants and animals must first be known before they can be classified into genera and species; also, that horses cannot feed upon oysters, nor man live on grass, are facts which, like so many other facts, are not learned by demonstration, but by experience. And so it is in the science of medicine. Some twenty-five years ago it was all the rage with the physicians of a certain country to try the effects of a certain substance, called “ excrementa serpentis f upon the stomachs of their patients ; and since we were among those who were watching the boa constrictor of the menagerie with a view to secure some of that novel materia medica, we can speak knowingly about this matter. Well, it turned out to have no effect at all, but might have had that of an emetic if the patients had known what they swallowed. In the medical department all depends on experience, and the medical student has more cramming to do than any other : cramming of Anatomy, Physiology, and Materia Medica; or, if that be neglected, cramming with a vengeance — the graveyard.
[to be continued.]
General Information.
When we enter college, a certain course of study is marked out for us, which, when mastered, entitles us to a diploma. But the mere following out of this prescribed course does not make the “ ready man.” Something more is required, and that something is “general information.” True it is, the zealous student finds little or no time to devote to the acquisition of knowledge outside his course, ' nor can he gather such knowledge from any one source. Though history is a great fountain of “general information,” yet there are a thousand little things which go to make up general knowledge, which must be sought from almost as many different sources. Books, good society, conversation with superior men, close observation, are some of the means placed at our disposal for acquiring this knowledge which is to complete the scholar and make the finished man.
A ready man is almost always an agreeable companion in society. Young men leave college full of Greek, Latin
THE SOH
OLA STIC.	1179
and mathematics, but know little or nothing of the animal and vegetable nature which surrounds them—but little of the history of the age or the dayk He has a rich store of knowledge within him, but its value is lessened by his lack of information on subjects which, if known, would enable him to make a thousand times better use of his college lore.
The active politician is especially the one who reaps a golden harvest from his general information, if he has it, and who suffers in the same proportion if he has it not. The lawyer, the public speaker,[and the minister of God, are the ones who appreciate to its fullest extent the power they receive from their store of general knowledge. It furnishes them with matter; they never feel at a loss for a theme; their language is harmonious, because it expresses the thoughts of an intellect refined by the immortal pages of classic writers; it is full of worth, because it comes from a mind well stored with general knowledge. Hence they are listened to with pleasure. The language that flows from the lips of men thus refined and prepared is chaste, elegant and pithy; not, like the great mass of the speeches of the day, composed of “ slang ” and “ cant phrases,” and the like, which are characteristic of an undeveloped and unrefined mind.
This want of culture and of general information isj noticeable in the editorials of the times, the majority of which are not worth reading. Their motto seems to be paroum in midto, rather than the old and time-honored saying of “ much in a little.” You dip in, and get nothing but foam. What a contrast do these not form to the editorials penned by men of real worth! Much of the literature of the present time is of this foamy kind,—not worth reading. What we find in a whole volume may be put into a nut-shell. All this, we hold, arises from a want of proper information on the part of the writers.
The young man, then, at college should not content himself with the mastering of those branches which his course of study requires, but he should go farther, and endeavor to store up in his mind an amount of general information, —thetmore, the better,— for this is something with which the mind can never be too well garnered. It is generally supposed that the student will “ read up ” while he is pursuing his studies, — yet how few are they who do so! Books which are calculated to furnish their minds with this important kind of knowledge are. seldom the college students’ companions, while Dickens’, and other novels inferior to his, are found open before them—and this not only in their leisure moments, but even when a lesson in a textbook should be the object of their attention.
Travelling is another great source from which general information flows. The great men of antiquity as well as of modern times have commended travelling as a means of filling the mind with a knowledge of the ways and customs, of different peoples. By reading books we learn what experience has taught or inquiry and experiment have de-. monstrated; we know the people as they were. By travelling we know the people as they are. Books give us the experience of other men. Travelling gives us our own experience.
General information, while it may seem to be of no signal service to some, is nevertheless very useful to them. No one can ever find it a burden; when acquired, it forms . part of ourselves, and we use it even without a thought. It comes to our aid without an effort, and, like all knowledge,
is a source of pleasure to the possessor. Thus it furnishes not only strength and readiness to the mind, but also pleasure, and that too of an innocent order. It should be the earnest endeavor of every young man to fill his mind with this general information which is to be of so much service to him in after life, acording to the old Roman saying— “ Let the boy learn what he will need when a man.”
Gulliver.
The Banner of Old.
O that beautiful banner, ’tis streaming afar, And.brightly it waves ’mid. the conflicts of war; The smoke of the battle may darken the air, And the cannons may boom, but that banner is there, Still floating in freedom to beckon us on Till the conflict is over and victory won. -O flag of our Faith 1 O banner of might I
In glory thou wavest from the firmament’s height.
Look up at that banner I ’tis as bright as of old. For the Blood of a King emblazoned its fold; The great and the glorious dyed it with red, When the fount of salvation on Calvary bled. O glorious banner 1 the light of the world 1 On Olives’ fair mount thy folds were unfurled When angels and men with the Deity met, In.a halo of glory that circles thee yet!
From ocean to ocean, o’er mountain and sea, From the icy-capped hills to the far Galilee,’ That banner is streaming so proudly and high, With its staff on the earth and its folds in the sky. Oh, shackled and weary I look aloft to its fold: ’Tis the banner of freedom by prophets foretold! ’Tis the pillar of light that broke forth from the East To guide thee, dear heart, to the Canaan of rest.
Glorious banner! what triumphs are thine! The greenest of laurels from every clime! Laurels that fade not but bloom over death, Unscathed by the frost of mortality’s breath;
Victory’s eye is dazzled to-day
By the gleam of a glory no time can decay; For learning and science like the pheenix arise From the ashes of earth on thy wings to the skies.
O flag of the Faithful! O banner of might! The sun of our. day, the star of our night I Glories are thine that never may set,.
Banner of life in the kingdom of death! Then press on, firmly on, ye valiant and true, The bright bow of promise now gladdens your view. By the Ark of our Faith, kneel down on the sward And fealty swear to the Flag of the Lord.
Extra Recreation.—On Thursday of last week, it being Father General’s birth-day, a committee proceeded, from the Senior Department to ask an extra day’s recreation. They found Father General in hisxoom, but he did not deem that it was in his power to give recreation, and referred the committee to-the officers of the college, giving his approbation, which-was amply sufficient, and recreation was readily granted by the Vice-President and Prefect of Discipline, the President of the University being absent at the time. The day was a splendid one overhead, and all proceeded to the enjoyment of it as best they knew. These extra recreations are always cheering, and especially when the weather is mild and one can enjoy the open air without suffering from the winter’s cold.
180
SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:	'
One year......................;........................  $2	00
One session (5 months)................................... 1	25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.	"
“ Our Music Box,” the “ Literary Entertainment,” the “ Report of the Philodemic Society,” and other communications, have been received too late for publication this week.
Several communications have been given into the office without the name of the writer, although they contain accounts of college incidents and events. As has already been said, no notice will be taken of any report unless the name of the writer be given. No manuscript should be brought to the office, but should be put into the Box.
The coming Entertainment will be given on the evening of the 21st, inst. We have already noticed one of the plays that is to be presented by the followers of Thespis, but were not then prepared to make known the name of the afterpiece. The plays are “The Iron Chest” and “ The Review.” The characters are all in good hands, and we expect them to do justice to themselves. They are talking of producing “ Robert Emmett ” on St. Patrick’s Day. We think it well-suited to the purpose. The Thespians hope their old friends will not fail to be present on these occasions. The following is the cast of characters for
the “Iron Chest”:
Sir Edward Mortimer.........................C. J. Dodge
Fitzharding...................................C. Berdel
Wilfred..................................M. M. Foote.
Adam Winterton................................W. Dodge
Gilbert Rawbold, and Orson...............E. McLaughlin
Samuel Rawbold, and Gregoiy.................R. W. Staley
z Robbers’Boy.................".............O. Waterman
Simon Rawbold, and Second Robber.........H. W. Walker
Armstrong................................D. E. Malo.-ly
Amos (Orson’s brother)...................P. J. O’Connell
“ THE REVIEW: OR, WAGS OF WINDSOR.”
A COMIC DRAMA IN ONE ACT, BY THE THESPIANS. Dramatis Persorue.
Mr. Deputy Bull (A Retired Grocer)........D. E. Maloney
Captain Beaugard...............................C. Berdel
Caleb Quotem................................R. W. Staley
Looney Macwolter (An Irishman)............P.	J. O’Connell
John Lump (Yorkshireman)..................H. W. Walker
Dubbs (Servant of Quotem)...................M. M. Foote
Page to Mr. Bull..........................O. Waterman
A Remark.—It has been observed by one or two that at the last Entertainment during the patriotic appeals that were made by some of the orators the color came to “Washington’s” face; of course we have no reference to ' that tastily finished painting on the drop-curtain, nor do we believe every report that is circulated.
Boll of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week peceding the given date.)
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, ICTS.
Senior Department. .
M. Allen, A. Allen, F. Buter, W. Briant, C. Berdel, H. Beckman, M. Bastarache, V. M. Baca, G. Brown, J. Brown, M. Brown, 3. Brogan, V. Baca, J. Begue, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, W. Clarke, A. Costello, J. Comer, W. Campbell, 3. Crummey, J. Claffey, B. Donsey, J. Devine, F. Devoto, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, T. Dundon, T. Flannigan, M. Foote, J. Flynn, J. Ferry, J. Gillen, E. Graves, 3. Hogan, T. Hansard, E. Halpin, A. Horne, A. Hess, P. Jacobs, T. Keenan, J. Kelly, J. Lee, J. McGlynn, E. Morancy, E. Monahan, J. Murphy, J. McAlister, T. Murphy, A. Mooney, J. McCormick, E. McSweeney, E. Mullen, E. McLaughlin, J. Noonan, P. O’Meara, P. O’Connell, J. O’Brien, F. Phelan, C. Proctor, G. Ruger, E. Spitley, G. Stack, F. Scrafford, J. Scherei, P. Sullivan, G. Tobin, A. Taggart, S. Valdez, C. Vinson, T. White, L. Watson, C. Walter, J. Wolfe, H. Walker, H. Zeitler.
Junior Department.
F. Austin, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, L. Busch, C. Black, P. Brosseau, L. Best, C. Bnrger, J. Burke, H. Bennett, J. Carmody, J. Caren, P. Corbett, M. Casey, J. Callaghan, C. Casey, J. Dore, W. Dexter, J. Dunn, F. Egan, H. Enneking,„J. Ewing, W. Fletcher, C. Furer, J. Francis, W. Francis, G. Gross, W. Gross, J. Grace, J. Graham, J. Golsen, R. Golsen, H. Hunt, J. Hanley, E. Holt, C. Hake, W. Hake, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, M. Hilliard, L. Hibben, R. Hutchings, A. Kleine, W. Kinzie, H. Kinley, J. Lynch, L. Loser, R. Lewis, W. Meyer, F. McOsker, T. Mullen, T. McGee, J. Mullarky, E. McMahon, S. McMahon, J. Marks, S. Marks, W. Morgan, E. Milburn, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, J. McHugh, N. Mooney, J. McGinniss, A. Mitchell, L. Munn, J. Nevin, E. Ohmer, J. O’Connor, W. Pollard, J. Quill, A. Ried, C. Ruger, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, A. Sehmidt, F. Swe-ger, H. Schaller, F. Smyth, W. Schulthies, T. Sauvagut, P. Tansey, O. Tong, L. Van’t Woud, S. Wise, J. Wanbaugb, O. Waterman, J. Wilson, J. Williams, H. Zuber.
Minim Department.
H. Faxon, E. Raymond, T. Nelson, F. Carlin, C. Walsh, A. Koch, E. Cleary, C. Faxon, W. O’Hara.
J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
Class Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory; fourth week, Music, Fine Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director op Studies.]
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1873.
Collegiate Department.—Senior Class.
E. B. Gambee, D. J. Hogan, P. J. O’Connell, T. J. Dundon, M. M. Foote, J. D. McCormick.
Junior Class. .
T. P. White.
.	. Sophomore Class.
W. J. Clarke, D. E. Maloney, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, E. J. McLaughlin.
Freshman Class.
E. G. Graves, C. Walter, T. J. Murphy, J. E. Hogan, H. W. Walker,„W. Campbell, C. Berdel, E. S. Monahan, M. Bastarache, J. Caren.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
181
John Egan, William Darst, ' Robert M. Haley, John Ney, Peter Downey, Andrew Baker, Ambrose Baker, Thomas Deneny, Michael Foley, Thomas Hooley,
South Bend, Indiana. Peoria Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois. Independence, Iowa. Plattsburgh, Missouri. Port Wayne, Indiana. Fort Wayne, Indiana. St. Joseph, Missouri.
Dunton, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
The Lecture Seasoa.
The third Lecture of the season was delivered before the students of the Collegiate Department, on the evening of Saturday last, by Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C., President of the University. This was the first lecture delivered in the new study-hall, and indeed it was a worthy one, “short and sweet;” and if those who are to follow our Rev. President in the course of lectures before this Department succeed in interesting as well as instructing us as much, we shall never be heard to complain. The Rev. Lecturer announced as the subject of his lecture, “ Education the basis of Civilization.” In the course of his remarks he laid open the many false theories that have crept into many educational institutions, and showed that man, unlike the minerals, the plants and the irrational animals, requires something beyond mere bodily growth, something beyond what nature in itself would effect; and this something is education. The mind and heart of man must be disciplined, trained, chastised, iu a word, educated; but not the one to the exclusion of the other. The pernicious effects of the exclusive education of the intellct, he most plainly pointed out to us in the present age and especially in Europe. Religion too,must take an important part in a .thorough education ; and it is from an education in which religion plays such an important part that civilization grows, for we can “ find barbarians in so-called civilized natinos, and civilized people among barbarous nations.” The passions—those archenemies of the immortal soul—must be brought undersubjection before one can be truly educated; for if he is not master of these, noxious weeds will grow up and turn to naught what sciencehe may have acquired. The moral goodness of man must be cultivated, and when this is done in connection with the acquisition of the arts and sciences (and of course is physieally developed,) man walks forth fully educated, prepared to take part in the march of civilization. He proved to us, furthermore, that this subject though often written and discoursed upon, so far from b2ing exhausted or threadbare.
Every one expressed himself highly pleased with the-lecture, and hoped that it would not be long before we might have the pleasure of listening to another from the same source.	B.
Physics and Chemistry.—These Classes are now rendered the more interesting by the experiments which are given in the laboratory. During the first session the Class was studying Theoretical Chemistry, and of course had but few “tricks,” as some call them. Much pleasure was afforded the Class by means of the galvanic battery. One scorched his finger, another wouldn’t try it a second time, etc. All-were amused.
The St. Edward’s.
Editor Scholastic: The St. Edward’s Society,fully conscious of your great generosity, and the fact that it^has been some time since it has claimed the attention of your readers, takes the liberty of again giving an account of itself, through the columns of our highly-esteemed college journal. The Association met on the evening of the 5th of February to elect officers for the ensuing session. It is needless to say that Rev. Father Lemonnier was re-elected President by acclamation. We notice by a recent number of the Scholastic that Father Lemonnier has made some valuable donations to certain libraries in the college. We must say right here that we are indebted and thankful to him for similar favors. The following list gives the result of our election:
President—Rev. A. Lemonnier.
Vice-President—J. D. McCormick.
Promoter—C. J. Dodge.
Recording Secretary—W. J. Clarke.
Corresponding Secretary—M. M. Foote.
Treasurer—J. E. Hogan.
Librarian—T. J. Murphy.
Assistant Librarian—J. W. McAllister.
First Censor—J. E. Kelly.	.
Second Censor—D. J. Hogan.
Thus, well settled for the second session, with efficient and energetic leaders, we hope to accomplish a great deal in the way of debates and other literary exercises, and to take rapid strides of improvement in the paths of learning, to which our society is devoted, and with your permission, kind Editor, we shall take pleasure in letting the readers of the Scholastic now and then hear of the doings of the St. Ed’s.	" Mark M. Foote, Cor. Sec.
The Thespians.
Mr. Editor : On the 9th inst. the Thespian Association held a meeting for the purpose of electing officers for the present session, the result of said election being as follows:
President—Prof. T. F. O’Mahony, B.S.	.
Vice-President—E. B. Gambee.
Secretary—D. E. Maloney.
Treasurer—H. W. Walker.
I need scarcely inform you that we are still prospering finely, having many new applications for membership. It would appear that “Fly-Catches” is well posted on the future actions of the Society. This being the case, I will leave him to furnish your readers with the information they desire regarding the Society in future, as he has so well done in the past.	D. E. M., Secretary.
Ths St. Ceciliaas.
The 22d, 23d and 24th regular meetings were held on January 24th, 27th, and February 1st. At these meetings the following delivered declamations and read compositions : J. Stubbs, J. McGrath, F. Sweger, W. Green, W. Gross, J. Dunn, J. F. McHugh, E. G. Ohmer, L. Whitaker, W. Meyers, R. Hutchings, E. Dougherty, L. O. Hibben, F. Egan, J. Devine, J. Marks, and W. Ball. At the 23rd meeting Rev. Father Lemonnier, Rev. Father Gillen, Mr. O’Brien of Chicago, etc., honored the Society with their

182
THE SCHOLASTIC
presence. One of the chief exercises of the evening consisted in the reading of the “ Standard ” by the Editor-in-chief. . This over, Messrs. Foote, Dodge, and Berdel, were called upon to declaim, which they did in their usual elocutionary manner,—their voices were never better. May the Society have the pleasure of hearing these, their old friends, frequently. After this, Rev. Father Lemonnier made a few remarks, congratulating the members on their rapid progress; he said he was not a little astonished at the numbers and talent of the Society. He concluded by saying that he had every hope the members, before the end of the scholastic year, would excel the members of other years. He then introduced Rev. Father Paul Gillen, who entertained the members for over an hour with the reminiscences of his travels, etc. He closed by giving in good style a dialogue between- “ Death and a Lady.” The members, much pleased with the entertainment, then retired. The 25th regular meeting was held on February 8th. At this meeting the election of officers took place, the result of which we will give in our next report.
W. Breen, Cot. Sec.
Fly-Catches.
TBe Days Lengthen.—There always seems to be something dreary in the cold winter days which are with us towards the latter part of December, but as the days begin to lengthen the sun seems to rise the more beautifully and the severity of the weather to abate. Indeed the days are of such a length now as to make us think of mild April or gentle May.
Tira Band left their room not long since, and betook themselves to the College, where they poured forth some sweet strains which took our imagination back to by-gone days when the Band gave us frequent serenades. It seemed like a distant warning, saying Spring is approaching—for? somehow music always makes us think of Spring. The serenade not only pleased us but gave us a high idea of the Band as a musical organization. We hope it will cheer us frequently during the coming session; the excellent music from this quarter is always very welcome. The Band miss an efficient member in Mr. Chas. Hodgson, who departed not long since for his home.
Fishing.—Though the ice on the lakes is nearly two feet in thickness, and snow renders even its glossy surface rough, yet this does not hinder the fish from swimming about in seaich of food, a very natural thing to look for. Not long since we took a stroll towards the lake and passed a few moments watching some fishermen who were there. They had cut holes through the ice in several places and had set their lines, the ends of which were fastened to twigs which they had stuck in the slush. We saw several fine-sized perch lying near one of the lines; however, their luck seemed to be falLermaris, for we did not see them take any, though they had several lines set, and more comfortable quarters were inviting us.	.
The Literart Treat furnished us by the Societies of the University on Tuesday of last week was all that we expected of it. The music, essays, speeches, etc., were all in conformity with the occasion, and we do not hesitate to reiterate the expression of our satisfaction by calling the entertainment a success in the full sense of the word. Every one was pleased, too, with the good order kept in the Hall. But the students always keep order in the Hall: it is not they
that have created the disturbance there on former occasions. As I am speaking of the Hall, etc., it seems almost necessary to inform some who are laboring under a mistake that the intention of charging an entrance fee for admittance into the Hall does not by any means extend to them. The entertainments are gotten up to a great extent for the gratification! and amusement of the students; and it is altogether foreign to the intention to charge the students an entrance fee. They are always welcome, and need not even a ticket.
Out-door Games have been resumed. On the extra recreation day given last week, we noticed a general desire manifested to again participate in the sports of the field. The foot-ball was brought forth and made to feel the weight of many a pound of sole-leather. The snow had melted away; so that it was no obstacle. This is a good game for the season, and causes the fresh warm blood to flow through the veins, adding new vigor and health to the body. And the mind too is strengthened by it. Though we did not participate, we enjoyed the sport, and hope the weather will withhold its staying hand. This is the first time the field has been used for several months. It has indeed had a long rest, but its peaceful state is probably near a close. No doubt before long it will be the scene of contests still hotter. We hail this first appearance of out-door games with delight, knowing as we do the great good the students reap from participating in them. We hope navigation will soon open.
The Collegiate SIudy-Hall is still the topic of conversation—it “ being both the hope and the reward of study.” On the afternoon of Saturday its intended moving up quite rejoiced the Collegiate students—enjoying for the first time the realization of a long cherished hope. The desks and books going up stairs created quite an excitement, and of course a stir. The students are indeed comfortably situated. As we sit at our desk and look around us, we are reminded rather of a parlor than a study-hall. What a fine Society would not the Collegiate Department make! and we hope this idea will not prove amiss. May be it will meet the approbation of many. The room is well fitted for such a purpose, and of course those who compose the Department are qualified to take part in such a Society. It would not only contribute much to the improvement of the students in that all-important branch of education, viz.: the ability to appear to advantage^before the public, but would also redound greatly to the credit of each individual member, and to that of the University itself. But wiser heads than ours will consider this matter, if it be worthy of consideration.
Spring seems approaching; the weather, though severe and stern, seems inclined to put on a milder look; and we think sometimes that it is going to put on a good-natured smile. Another fortnight must bring it near at hand, for we remember playing a match-game of base-ball on the 17th of March, but a few years since. Indeed the coming Spring promises a lively campaign, and no doubt three contesting nines will take the field as soon as the weather will permit. Though base-ball, from being abused, has come to be looked upon by many as intimately connected with the idea of gambling, yet take it from our play-ground and you destroy the life of the recreation day and the sport of the season. Of course every one who knows Notre Dame understands that this noble game of America is not abused here, but played for amusement and exercise. We will refrain, however, from further comment upon the game in se, and leave it for some future time, when the battle for championship is raging. The three nines will be about equally matched, and this will contribute not a little to the interest of the games.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
183
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.

St. Mary’s Academy. February 9. 1873.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
. Tablet of Honor (S’r. Dep’t), Feb. 9,1873.
Misses Mary Cochrane, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Lizzie Kiel, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Rose Spier, D. Green, L. West, M. Comer, E. Haggarty, J. Voorhees, A. Lloyd, Bay Reynolds, Bridget Grace, Kittie Finley, Maggie Letourneau, S. Shipley, L. James, Julia Fanning, Amelia Keeline, A. T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, A. St. Clair, E. Boyce, N. Foote, H. McMahon, Mary A. Roberts, Louisa Pfeiffer, Flora Rush, Mary Quill, Emma Ives, A. Ried, E. Quinlan, M. McGuire, Agnes Conahan, R. Rosesco, Anna Belle Stockton, Livinia Forrester, J. Conners, M. White, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, N. McMahon, M. Lyons, H. Miller, L. Scheiber, Rose McKeaver, Louisa Lilly, Fannie Snouffer, Nellie Hinkston Mary Kane. '
Honorably Mentioned in the Examination Reports.'
Graduating Class—Misses B. Crowley, K. Zell, L. King, A. Shea, A. Todd, K. Haymond, M. Lange, M. Lassen, M. Cochrane, A. Mast.
. First Senior Class—Misses R. Devoto, R. Green, A. M. Clarke, M. Kearney, M. Comer, M. Brown, N. Gross, R. Spier, L. West, L. Niel, L. Black, N. Langdon.
Second Senior Class—Misses B. Reynolds, L. Ritchie, E. Richardson, M. Prince, J. Kearney, A. Lloyd, B. Grace, A. Wilder, A. Church, M. Wicker, L. Dent.
Third Senior Class—Misses E. Boyce, A. O’Connor, E. Foote, J. Noonan, G. Walton, L. Weinreich, M. Riley, A. T. Clarke, A. St. Clair, J. Fanning, H. McMahon, N. Heedy, A; Keeline.
First Preparatory Class—Misses Anna Ried, A. Hambleton, L. Pfeiffer, J. Walsh, M. A. Roberts, A. Conahan, E. Wade, M. Faxon, L. Beckman, L. Ritchie, M. McGuire, E. Quinlan, E. Ives, R. Woolman, K. Miller, B. Wade, B. White, L, Tinsley. . .	■
Second Preparatory Class—Misses S. Chenoweth, C. Germain, K. Wickham, D. Simonds, E. Birney, R. Marr, R. Klar, F. Lloyd, A. Walsh, M. Hepp, G. Kelly, K. Joyce, M. Martin, A. Lynch.	‘
Third Preparatory Class—Misses J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, F. Snouffer, L. Lilly, L. Scheiber, H. Muller, T. Schulte, S. Lilly, N. Vigil, A. Goldhart.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
First Class—Misses E. Plamondon, K. Young.
Second Division—Miss R. Spiers.
Second Class—Misses L. Black, E. Quinlan, A. Gold-hardt, A. Todd.
Second Division—Misses B. Grace, D. Green, L. West. Promoted to this Division—Misses Noonan, Lassen.
Third Class—H. McMahon, A. Smith, M. Ward. Promoted to this Class—Misses H. Foote, L. Beckman, A. Roberts, N. Gross, A. Clarke, I. Wilder.
Second Division—Misses Comer, Zell, Devoto. Promoted to this Division—Misses Ried, Letourneau.
Fourth Class—A. Shea, L. King, M. McGuire. Promoted to this Class—Miss J. Kearney.
Second Division—Misses E. Ives, M. Corcoran. Promoted to this Division—Miss G. Kelly.
Fifth Class—Misses Simonds, M. Brown, A. Stockton,
K. Finley, A. Mast, K. Haymond. Promoted to this Class —Misses Snouffer, M. Pinney, L. Pfeiffer, L. Tinsley, L. McKinnon.	'
Second Division—M. Booth. Promoted to this Division-Misses F. Lloyd, M. Faxon, C. Walker. ■
Sixth Class—Misses A. Lloyd, M. Black. Promoted to this Class—Misses V. Ball, M. Carlin, A. Paulsen, R. Hooley, K. Wickham, M. Brown, M. Hildreth, A. Allen.
Second Division—Misses B. Wade, E. Wade, N. McAuliffe, M. Riley. Promoted to this Division—Misses M. E. Roberts, A. Walsh, M. Walsh, M. Thompson, M. Roberts, G. Hooley, L. Weinreich, E. Richardson, A. O'Connor, N. McMahon, M. Nash, F. Butters.
Seventh Class—Misses E. Jackson, S. Smith, C. Smith, R. Manzanares, J. Valdez, N.- Vigil, S. Chenoweth, O’ Reichling.
Eighth Class—Miss L. Walsh. Promoted to this Class —Misses E. Lange, B. Quan, E. Hassler.	■	.
To the Ninth Class—T. Cronin, E. Lappin. •
Tenth JClass—J. Tallman, M. DeLong, L. Schurle, A. Green. .
HARF.
Misses McMahon, Plamondon, Wicker.	-
GUITAR.
Misses Shipley and Harrison.
First Junior Class—Misses Kate Schmidt, C. Smith, Bianca Hassler, C. Walker, M. Ewing, M. Brown, M Walsh, M. Reynolds, M. Carlin, M. Thompson, E. Thomson, A. Birney, K. Lloyd, R.' Hooley, N. O’Meara.
Second Junior Class—Misses E. Lang, A. Ewing, M. Ware, E. Lappin, A. Paulsen.
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:	’
Life subscription, §20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.	‘ -
For 2 y ears $5. in advance.
For 1 year, S3, in advance.	"	"
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the A vs Maria for $25, in advance.	-
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $45, in advance.	'
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria for $50. in advance.
The postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office "
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame. Indiana.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC AIAGAZIAE,
THIRTY-TWO PAGES EVERY MONTH.
§1,00 I»ER ANNUM.
Premiums for Clubs.
-	Send for a Specimen of
Which will be read, through and through by every member of .	the family, young and old.	\
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending One Dollar to the Editor,	\	’
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
• -	Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
184
THE SCHOLASTIC
$20,000,
TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN PBE-miunis, for Distribution among the $2.00 Subscribers of the CINCINNATI
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY
AUTUHN ARRAAGEIEXT
rpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.
IN APRIL, 1873
The number of Premiums are always increased when the
her of names exceed the number calculated upon. We now offer the following:
1 Cash Premium of -	-	-
20 Cash Premiums of $100 Each, -60 Stem-winding Watches, $80 Each, 100 Cash Premiums of $20 Each, -290 Cash Premiums of $10 Each, -100 Cash Premiums of $5 Each, - -100 Cash Premiums of $3 Each, -loo Cash Premiums of $2 Each, - -
num-
$1,000 2.000 4,800 2,ooo 2,ooo
Soo Boo 2oo
“	“	9.15 p. m.
“	“	12 35 a. m.
“	“	8.2o	p.m.
“	“	4.35	p.m.
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m.
“	“	2 55 a. m.
“	“	5.00 a. m. -
“	“	[6 05 p m.
“	“	6.37 a. m.
“	“	8.20 a. m.
EAST. ,
Arrive atBuffalo 4.05 a. m “	“	4.05 a. m
“	“	1.35 p. m
“	“	5.30 p. m
Runs to Elkhart.
IF ES T.
Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m
Slaking connection with all trains West and North.
XIS' For full details, see the Company’s posters and depot and other public places. '
6.50 a.
8.20 a.
m m
9.40 p. m
10.30 a. m
12.30 p. m
time tables at the
1279 Miscellaneous Prem., $2 to $10 Each, 7,2oo Making a Total of TWO THOUSAND Premiums, Worth TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS.
Every subscriber who remits 32.00 for a year’s subscription will have his name registered, and will be furnished by return mail a receipt giving the date and number to which his name is registered, said number being represented by a duplicate in the distribution.	.
Agents sending 10 names and 320.00 at one time receive a free paper one year and have their names registered as participants for premiums.
Specimen Copies, Posters, Premium Pamphlet and Subscription Blanks sent free to persons desiring them. Address
IP ALIX-VIN	McLEAN,
485F-Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.___
J. H. DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio. • CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. W. Caby, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchabd, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING, . To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.	,
Going South—Express passenger, 8-58 a. m.; 10.46 a.m.; 9.25 p.m.
Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line
CW RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-Qjl ison Street Bridge, as follows:	'
n!8w6
Cincinnati, Ohio,
NILES I SOUTH BEND R.R
Leave Niles,
GOING SOUTH.
6.50 a m. Arrive South Bend,
9.35 a.m. “	“ ,
“	4.50 p.m.	“	“
GOING NORTH. Leave South Bend,	- 8.40 a.m.	I	Arrive Niles,	-
“	“	11.45 a.m.	“
“	“	6.30 p.m.	|	“
SUNDAY TRAINS. Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend, “	“	530p.m. |	“
7.30 a.m
10.15 a.m
5.30 p.m
9.20 a.m
12 25 p.m
7.10 p m
10.00 a.m
6.30 p.m
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo. .
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Slain Line,
St. Louisand Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE.
ABBrVE.
*9:15 a.m.
*8:00 p.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
♦9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.in. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 17:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up ■with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.	-
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. J Dail y. § Except Monday. .	.	. .
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	■	-
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking,Cars on all day Trains. ■
JAMES CHARLTON, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
j. c. McMullin, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO.
PJENNSYL V AN IA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
I

Matriculation Fee, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	•	-	$ 5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months,- -	-
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, -
Instrumental Music, --------Use of Piano, ----------Use of Violin, ----------Drawing, -	--	--	--	--	--	-
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-
Graduation Ree—Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, -Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
150 00
10 00
12 50
10 00
2 00
15 00
5 00
16 00
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE- AND CHICAGO
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman’s Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New .
' York without Change.	■
35 00
charged, extra, -	-	'
Payments to be made invariably in advance. Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p.' m Arrives at New'York 1130 a. m*
2d train “	“	5.15 p. m "	'
3rd train “	•“	9.00 p. m
6.41 a. m*
11.30 p. m*
on the 1st of February.	»
For further particulars, address	’ ''
Bev. A. LEMONNIBB, C.S.C.,
.	President.
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a't Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Geu’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh, i
H. W. GWINNER,' Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. 16
F. R.'MYERS, Gen'l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’LPass. Agent,1 Chicago. . .	;
♦ Second day.|	.	■ -	•