
Voire Dame Scholastic.
Dlsce quasi semper vlotzujus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 15, 1880.
Number 36.
/
[For the '* Notre Dame Scholastic.”]
Nathan Hale.
BY E. J. M.
It happened a hundred years ago, They led him forth to die,—
They were British Regulars, He was a Yankee spy.
At break of day on the scaffold, He stood all stern and pale,—
A martyr to Freedom and Fatherland, Captain Nathan Hale.
But he thought of the mother, feeble and old, Who had kissed her son good-by;
He thought of his sweet-heart, fond and true, And a tear-drop dimmed his eye.
And the surging mob of Redcoats, With taunts and scoffs and jeers, Like Indians ’round the torture stake, Howled curses in his ears.
When they called for a speech from the scaffold, Said this Yankee rebel of yore:
“I have only one life for my country, I am sorry I have not more.”
We have raised him no statue of marble, Nor written in bronze his name,
So I fling my tribute of verses— A gauntlet-challenge to Fame.
z
Veronica.
Let mighty names long worshipped rest in shade, And hero-deeds and works of glory fade
Like stars when from the East the regal day doth shine, Before that single, yet all glorious act of thine, Veronica, of all the honors since our earliest fall, Save Mary’s thou had’st the greatest of them all. The dim and distant future then is now the past, And still thy name the far-off future shall out-last; Thy mem’ry ne’er shall fade, thy name not die Where’er the Christian’s stainless standard fly; What honor greater, what favor more divine ? Thine was the favor, and all the honor thine, To wipe the Saviour’s streaming, blood-stained face, As slowly, and with faint and tottering pace, With features wracked with anguish strong and deep, And thorn-pierced brow He labored up the steep. Grateful the offering unto our burthened Lord.
And for a simple act a great and grand reward— Those heavenly features, pale and anguished-wrought, 3ad left their impress on the virgin cloth.
Justin F. MoCabthy.
Food and Health.
ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF FOOD.
I.
In the the study of the science of health few subjects present themselves that are of more importance to both young and old than that which treats of food in relation to its influence on the human system. It is hardly nec essary to produce a long list of reasons why the study of this subject is of so great and universal importance for does not our very life depend on a proper knowledge of foodstuffs ? How many a man has sown in his system the seeds of disease and death at the table! Bread, sour and heavy from unskilful working or damaged flour, butter rancid and offensive, potatoes sodden, and meat tainted or diseased, or in a state of decomposition, are fruitful causes of gastric disturbances and diarrhoea, and have often proved active and dangerous poisons.
If the old saying, Mens sana in corpore sano, is true, then the physiological saying, “ No sound body without so.und food,” should also be true. It is -not our purpose herej however, to show the necessity of good and wholesome food, but rather to consider food first as to its object, and secondly, as to the sources whence it is derived. Our body is constantly active; even during sleep our heart goes on contracting, and the chest rises and falls at each act of respiration. Motion implies waste, and if the motions of the body are to go on uninterruptedly this waste must be also constantly repaired. So true is this, that every breath we draw, every beat of our heart causes constant waste, and this waste is largely increased when to those are added the voluntary motions of the body. We cannot lift even a finger or walk a step, without a proportional loss in the tissues.
Waste and decay take place continually in the tissues, and therefore they must be repaired, if the body is to be sustained at all, and it is for this veiy reason that man is obliged to take food. The object of food, then, is to sustain and nourish the body, to enable it to perform the work it has to do, and in youth to increase its size and grow to its full proportion. To perform these duties we have two different kinds of aliments. First we have the plastic or nitrogenous, and secondly the carbonaceous or heat-producers.
All the members of the first class contain, as its name implies, a certain amount of nitrogen, and are derived mainly, but not entirely, from the animal kingdom. The principal kinds of food of this class are: fibrine, albumen, caseine, gelatine, and gluten. The first four are, for the most part, obtained from animal food; while the gluten forms the chief constituent of the flour from wheat Fibrine, albumen, and gelatine are obtained from butcheja*
560
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
meat, poultry and fish; caseine is chiefly found in milk. These kinds of food are sometimes called tissue-producers, because they enter largely into the composition of the animal tissues in the body, whilst the second class of foods are called heat-producers, for they supply, as it were, the fuel for the respiratory process, and furnish the heat of the body. Both the animal and vegetable world furnish-us-wiffi this second class' of foods, which includes all fats, as vegetable and animal oils, starch and sacharine, or sugars. Now the office of all these is, as we have said, to~procTuce Eeat, and for this purpose the fiats are best adapted; but in addition to this, they perform certain other important-.offlces in aiding in the digestion of the nitrogenized food-stuffs.
It has been shown'that the action of the pancreatic juice, which is an alkaline fluid, depends entirely on the presence of fats for its action on the nitrogenous principles. Moreover, fat is used in the production of bile; and being a very bad conductor of heat, it prevents a too rapid radiation of heat from the body; and together with this, it enhances the beauty of the human figure by giving a roundness and suppleness to the form. The starches and sugars are not as energetic heat-producers as the fats, but they are largely concerned in their production, as is shown by the rapidity with which animals fatten that are fed on diets rich in farina and sugar.
As to the sources of food, they are confined entirely to the animaland vegetable kingdoms. No instance is known where an animal derived its food directly from the mineral world. It is an old adage in botany that “ all food is produced by plants.** Plants draw upon the air and earth for subsistence, and change their constituents into their own tissues; how this is done, I think would not only be interesting to know, but also highly instructive, since it furnishes us with a cliie to the correlation of chemical to vegetable life-force. ...
The constituents of vegetable tissues are carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, and for the formation of these carbon dioxide, water and ammonia are received into the system. Now these chemical compounds are found very extensively in nature, and constitute the food of plants. But the next question, would be how do they change these simple compounds, into the, complex compounds of amyloids such as starch, dextrine and sugar ? First, as regards starch; it is^composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in the proportions of six atoms of the first to ten of the second and five of the last The formula generally given in organic chemistry is C6H10O5. To obtain starch the following conditions are required: First, the physical basis of life, must be present, * e., protoplasm; secondly, chlorophyll which is found in the green coloring substance of the leaves; and, lastly, a force which is supplied by solar light. To form starch the plant absorbs water by it roots anff carries it up to the leaves; here it is brought in contact with the carbonic acid of the air; under the influence of solar light, the two unite, and the excess of the oxygen which enters into the composition of carbonic acid is rejected, and replaced by nascent chemical force, which is soon converted, into vegetable life-force. To illustrate what I mean f will give a 'formula: Carbonic'acid plus, water minus, excess of oxygen=starch, or, in chemical language, CeOie+HipOs— Oi2=C6Hio05. t
Now, in order to obtain sugar, or, what is called in chemistry, glycose, we need only add one molecule of water to starch^and we oWi» the following formula: CoHioOe-h
H2O=C6Hi2O6 or glycose; from glycose we obtain the ' sugar of milk, by uniting two molecules of this substance indicated thus—C6Hi2O6+C6Hi2O6=Ci2H24Oi2— lactose.
Cane sugar, or sacharose, is obtained by subtracting
a molecule of water from twice glycose, ». «., 2 (CeHit- r' Oe)—H2O—Ci2H220u=cane sugar. In all these cases ■ it is the same force of solar light that gradually evolves the different kinds of vegetable products. Now these evolutions we attribute to the power of vegetable lifeforce, and hence some relation must exist between life and the physical force of solar light
There is no further necessity of entering into the discus- | sion of the production of food-stuffs, but rather to consider ; the sources Irom which we receive our two kinds of food. t But, before entering on this question, it may, however, be	’
well to stop and consider for a moment the quantity of the	’
primary elements that are absolutely nec ssary for the ; support of life. By a careful calculation it has been found . that a man requires, to keep himself alive, a daily supply of 4,100 grains of carbon, and 300 grains of nitrogen, or, I roughly speaking, he needs only one-thirteenth as much , nitrogen as carbon. Should a man, therefore, live exclusively on nitrogenized food, as albumen, or white of eggs, or meat, he will have to eat a great amount to supply the 4,100 grains of carbon, because those foods contain only about three and a half parts of carbon for every part of nitrogen, and he needs thirteen parts of carbon to one of ' nitrogen.	]
To put the case in another way, it takes about four 4 I pounds of fatless meat to yield 4,100 grains of carbon, whereas one pound will furnish the 300 grains of nitrogen	;
required. A man, confined to a purely nitrogenous diet,	l
must necessarily eat a prodigious amount of it. This would not only require a great amount of physiological labor, but a great expenditure of time, and to no profit for the body but gives so much the more to do to the excretory	'•’
organs that have to get rid of the superfluous three-fourths of the nitrogenous matter.
It is therefore advantageous to live on a mixed diet, and chiefly on vegetables. One pound of meat, per diem, will give us the required amount of nitrogen, and add to this a pound of sugar, or two pounds of bread, and we have . also the required amount of carbon. A mixed diet is therefore not only advantageous but economical. Let those people who have, then, the regulation of food take a -4 -lesson from these observations, which are drawn from the best authorities on the subject, and furnish a diet that is	j
not only advantageous but highly economical. Hence,	I
instead of eating two qr three pounds of meat a day, three- • fourths of a pound will do, when two pounds of other	1
good and wholesome vegetable food is added, along with	I
the sugar used in coffee, tea, and deserts. Many persons, , k well educated in other respects, do not know the conse- * quences of bad food on the mind -and body. They imagine by having coffee and tea and deserts without sugar, ; they are very economical; but this is not so; and it is certain that it would be far more economical to give a sufficient amount of sugar in tea and coffee, than to have to	"
furnish an additional pound of meat to each person	,
whom they may .have to support.
Man needsvery little food to.supportlife, and why should not that little be good and wholesome, and well prepared ? Not only does health and intelligence, depend on food, but alsd'morality. Let a man take a dinner of one pound and a half of good substantial food, from which he can readily
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	Ml
I
I
A
obtain sufficient to build up his lost vital tissues, and his blood will be pure healthy and life-giving. This food will produce noble aspirations in the mind, leaving all the grosser passions of a full and replete stomach of indigestible food far below him.
Now, let us consider the sources from which food may be derived. The first great necessity for the support of animal life is water, for without it the others would be useless. We can see the importance of water at once when we remember that seventy-five per cent, of the blood and the flesh is composed of it; and that per day abont five pounds of water is excreted by the lungs, by the skin and the kidneys. Water is taken into the body, both free and combined with other articles of food. Some vegetables contain as much as from eighty to ninety per cent of water; potatoes contain seventy-five per cent; new milk eighty, eight per cent, and beer, ale, skim-milk ninety per cent. Water performs two functions in the body; it is used to dissolve food and make it readily absorbable, as absorbable chyle, and it is also used to dissolve decaying substances, and wash them out of the body. In addition, it helps to regulate the temperature of the body, by its free evaporation from the surface thereof.
Here I stop for the present. In my next article I shall fully evolve the question under consideration.
Sakitas.
Echoes.
Many of the saddest and sweetest moments of our lives, when they have almost faded from pur memories and, fast drifting away among the shadows of the past, are spoken of by us as though they were only echoes; and indeed, echoes of what have been—reflections on what make up the sum of human life. For what we know of others, is the echo of reality. What we know of ourselves, is but the reflection we catch from others.
The beauties of art and literature are indistinct echoes from the midds and hearts of eminent men. The youthful adventures of David Copperfield are but sketches of Dickens’s own boyhood, while Edgar Allan Poe’s masterpiece, “The Raven,” in all the depths of its sombre beauty is but an echo of the gloomy grandeur of that genius from whose mind it emanated; and that ominous shadow as it ‘ fl )ated on the floor,’ was but a faint refit ction of the deep despondency that o’erwhelmed with its blackening folds his proud but unfortunate spirit.
Go back with me in imagination to the days of Grecian glory, and you behold a vast assemblage of the most learned and gifted people the world ever saw; but compare that country to-day with its once former greatness and then tell me where are her orators and philosophers? where are her cities of learning ? Ah! they are a thing of the past, and what we shall henceforth know of Greece will be through the medium of the historian and the poet.
Carthage, the masterpiece of Afiican magnificence, the seat of ancient commercial industry—the repository of wealth, and one of the greatest emporiums and States of the world—after having reached the heights of civilization and renown, fell—never to rise again. Even its name is hardly known in the country of which it was the glorious capital, and all that now remains of her ancient splendor is, perhaps, a few broken pillars nearly buried by the sands of the desert, and under whose shadows the owl and the bat not unfrequently take refuge.
Babylon, Nineveh, and ancient Rome—each in its turn has felt the destroying hand of Time, and are numbered with the things that were. How sad it is that earth’s mightiest events must some day become nothing but echoes; and the far-sonnding blast of Fame’s brazen trumpet produce nothing but echoes! echoes!!
We catch this refrain as it comes sighing to us from the autumn forest, and from the foam-capped waves of the world’s restless, girdling ocean, as it moans and murmurs in its rocky bed. It comes to us from all the windings of life’s changing path. To-day, there is a bridal scene—tomorrow, there is a funeral procession; flags are hanging at half-mast, arms are trailing in the dust, and, as the bursting sob of the minute gun swells forth on the evening breeze, it seems to send into eternity one mournful echo of all that is mortal of a once worshipped hero.
Fancy paints me to-night the picture of a poor old num, guarded by a batallion of British soldiery; on a remote island, rock-ribbed and lonely, where the never-ceasing swell of the Atlantic sings a requiem to the dead hopes of “ Corsica’s gifted son.” And as I gaze npon this scene, I cannot but imagine how the echoes must have filled the twilight of that career which challenges all futurity for an equal. And I cannot but think that the “Little Corporal,” then on his last solemn march, as he walked the measured exile’s beat, must have lived in a world of echoes, that were ever whispering of la belle France, of Genoa, Marengo, Austerlitz, of the Tyrol, the Pyramids and of Josephine,—echoes that were ever carrying him back on the wings of memory to the Imperial halls of Paris—where myriads of chandeliers threw their glittering light on silvered blazonry, and where jeweled crests bowed in awe to the “ Man of Destiny.”
But the song of echoes is not all a dirge. In the year 1776 there sounded across the dark waters of the Atlantic an echo which stirred into active existence the young nation that had just planted its banners in the wild forests of America; and with that story of persecution ever ringing in her ears America has built up a colossal fabric of intellectual greatness, which in the first century of her national existence has almost surpassed the achievements of the fifty preceding centuries of time.
The genius of Fulton has decked the ocean with a swarm of floating palaces. The persevering intellect of Morse has girded the world with a belt of living fire, and the untiring energy of Edison has not only furnished us with instruments of light and speech, but a more delicate one, by which the heat generated by the most distant star or planet may be transmitted and recorded. To-day, then, in the United States—the foothold of freedom—we find the genius of national prosperity—a genius that shall ultimately eclipse the broad empire of Rome, and outshine in grandeur the “ Eternal City,” under the domination of King Humbert. America, too, stands out as the exponent of the world’s advancement. Humanity, after all her experimental failures, civil and otherwise, looks upon her as a most dear child—claims her as the ofi-spring of civil and religious liberty.
But all the power, princely opulence, and intellectual advancement which 'we find in this conntry are but the results of that climax, of the effort and enterprise, the principle of improvement that took its nse with the early dawn of time, which has been rolling westward, ever westward, until its mighty tide is 'now breaking over our western continent and.deluging our shores withall earthly
562
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
greatness. But this great tide of development has its echo; for when we.contemplate the effort that is being made by that grand old and true religion—calling itself Catholic, and when we fully realize the stupendous missionary enterprises of the present age, we cannot but think that with this last swell of the world’s mental and physical development there is setting in a spiritual echo that shall roll backward over the nations of the East, cultivating and purifying them so that at no distant day all shall join hands as enlightened Christians around the common table of the world; and this echo is identical with that glad song of apostolic faith and truthfulness that first sounded in the prison vaults of heathendom, and came echoing down to us through catacomb and cathedral, through church and steeple, until its mighty chorus swells up in one grand volume, and at last breaking forth from the halls of time rolls in one mighty jubilee of never-ending adoration and praise away into eternity.	H. C. S.
Moral Sunshine.
Without possessing any specific knowledge of gardening, every one is aware of the necessity of sunlight for plants; knows that flowers grown in dark cellars produce pale and colorless blossoms; that vegetables become blanched; and that grapes and peaches will not ripen unless they have plentiful and fructifying sunshine. In warm countries the sun supplies the place of comforts and luxuries, of food and fuel. The African sickens and shivers in an northern climate—he misses the sun. Not only does the great luminary stimulate growth pour forth light and warmth, and generate physical well-being, but it has also an immense influence over the mental growth and the development of the emotions. In these days of artificial light and caloric, with electricity at our command, and the laws of heat ripening into a science, we ought, it would seem, to be pretty nearly independent of Nature’s sunshine. Yet in the deep shady valleys, where the sun never penetrates, goitre and idiotcy are common maladies; and in the back slums of crowded cities children, like weakly plants, grow up pale, poor and stunted. If for material purposes sunshine is so imperative a necessity, how is it with moral sunshine, or, in other words, the poetry of life?
Great men of every age agree that, perfection of happiness can only consist in ‘all the faculties having found their foil and adequate object.’ The object of the plants and flowers is to grow; to that purpose the sun’s bright and welcome rays assist them. The aspiration of men should be to develop their moral and mental faculties; and for that purpose they need moral sunlight, the warm and genial atmosphere which causes every shoot to bud, every flower and .leaflet to unfold. There has been of late a sort ojf return to the pagan worship of Nature, a love of glowing colors, and all the garish imagery which is the accompaniment of art in its lowest forms and earliest stages; but., above and beyond this veneering of loveliness in our art, furniture, our decorations, and our dress, there does not seem any very real development of pure taste, nor any positive departure from the common forms of materialism which are the characteristics of the present century. Probably city life is fatal to much poetry, though occasionally the. pressure and Sturm and Drang of modern existence rinse a passionate' longing for the quiet and repose of the
country. Poetry does not mean only the clothing of beautiful thoughts in harmonious language; it means also the spiritualizing of life, the tinging of every common object with the warm sunshine of sympathy and love. Just as, on rainy days in cities, the slush and grimy mud are swept away and put on one side, so the sunshiny nature will naturally dismiss all mean and sordid thoughts, and turn to what is true and noble and pure, as ‘ the sunflower turns to the face of its god.’ No doubt the sunny temperament is partly natural; yet, like everything else, it can be cultivated and improved. Perhaps such brightness is quite one of the most lovable attributes of human nature, and it does not seem to be more peculiar to men than to women. Little difficulties, small troubles, annoying anxieties, all seem to disappear before the presence of moral sunshine. One sunny person in a household may tranform an atmosphere of gloom.
If such results can be obtained by the agency of one single individual, how much more may be expected from a study of the proper means for producing a frame of mind so beneficial to society at large? Every faculty of our nature seldom finds its true and proper sphere. We have men of business immersed in duty until they are too tired even to think or talk of anything but stocks and shares, markets and strikes, political events and impending wars. We have men of pleasure as passionately following the turns of a die or the gallops of a horse, or blowing away any little intelligence they may possess in the blue clouds of tobacco-smoke. We have women of fashion too much occupied even to embrace their babies in the intervals of their gaieties. We have so called divines, partisans, and violent demagogues. But amongst them fall few gleams of sunshine, and none know the meaning of happy-ness. There are several elements in our complex nature— the material, the intellectual, the emotional. How are we to amalgamate and fuse such conflicting interests, how stop the waste of faculties and forces, which is an abhorrence to Nature? It is clear that before we can beautify our homes or our surroundings we must have some definite idea of beauty in our minds, and for that purpose we must look a little higher than along the dead-level of our commonplace lives. Days spent in dark alleys or dingy counting-houses are not particularly exhilarating, and soon produce a brooding temperament, indifferent to anything but the wants of of the hour, or the possible acquisition of a little extra wealth.
If the mind is to be roused and pleasurably excited, it must be taken forcibly out of its ordinary groove: it must be pushed into a new channel. Intellectual enjoyment, the arts, painting, music, and books, are powerful aids; but, above all, domestic life should be the source of the sweetest and most enduring enjoyment. We are fond of praising the particular merits of the homes of our country, yet we doubt if many could bear comparison with those of some of the countries of Europe. Silently a transformation is being effected amongst us; husband and wife are drifting apart as surely and gradually as the two separate branches of a river, the one flowing westward and the other eastward. Identity of interests must insure friendship ; and where ought there to exist greater identity of interests than in marriage? But the man has his business or his pleasure to attend to, in neither of which can his wife share; the woman has her children, her friends, her own frivolous or harmless pursuits. If both man and woman thought a little more how to tiringsunshine into the
THE UOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M3
other’s life, perhaps things might be different. Throw open the shutters, remove the barriers, and let the sun’s h >t rays play into the dingy heart, penetrate into the som-brest recesses, clear away the cobwebs and accumulation of dust-atoms, and suffuse with a new joy. The beams will light upon dull brown hair and irradiate it with golden glory, will fill the faded eyes with a new brilliancy, will turn all they touch to gold. Gaslight can never emulate sunshine; and if by the stupid arrangements of society the healthy growth of the affections be stunted, morbid outshoots of false feeling and diseased imagination will speedily bestow their uh welcome presence upon us. Novels like those of Yola and Belot, though admirably written, must needs cause a shudder at the mere possibility of such pictures as they paint laying claim to be regarded as a truthful mirror of society. When our pleasures become pure and healthful, our minds will be full of sunlight; for the surest criterion of a sound nature is a capacity for innocent enjoyment. Happiness is a duty as well as a privilege. The most sympathetic and deep-feeling amongst us are precisely those who have suffered and who have overcome. They have learned the value of the sunshine, and are not as those who have eyes and see not. The generality of men, with perceptions jaded by custom, look mechanically around, and have ceased to apprehend spiritual beauty in anything. To them the glorious rays of light only mean a little more natural heat, expressions of affection are so much idle sentiment, and imagination and poetry are the adjuncts and luxuries of the rich and eccentric.
t	Art, Music and Literature.
>	‘—Miss Blanche Roosevelt has been advised by her phy-
sician to cease singing for a time.
।	—Senor Gomez has re-written his “ Maria Tudor,” and
I will shortly complete a new opera: “Palma.”
f,	—The Baltimorean terms Miss Emma Thursby “ Amer-
ica’s greatest soprano.” Who shall decide ?
(	—Miss Mathilde Phillipps is to become a member of the
Boston Ideal Opera Company this month.
—Miss Lillian Bailey will pass the months of August, ।1 September and October in Boston and vicinity.
—The old mausoleum of Augustus Csesar, at Rome, is being converted by an architect into a splendid modern . theatre.
—The Halifax Opera Company has lately given Rossini’s Stabat Mater very successfully. The Company is now rehearsing “ The Sorcerer.”
—An American historian is now sojourning in Genoa, for the purpose of obtaining original documents in regard to the genealogy of Columbus.
*	—At the theatre da la Monnaise, Brussels, Belgium, an
opera comique by Lucien Solvay and Emile Mathieu, entitled “La Bernoise,” is to be produced.
—An English Benedictine attached to St. Edmund’s, ■ Douay, has translated Dom Gueranger’s “ Medal or Cross of St. Benedict; its Origin Meaning and Privileges.”
r	—It is stated in a recent German work on the organ
that the art of playing on that instrument reached the apo-r gee of perfection in Belgium in the seventeenth century.
—The Benedictine order of monks has given to the Church forty popes, two hundred cardinals, fifty patriarchs, sixteen hundred and thirty archbishops, five thousand bishops, and numerous canonized saints.
—Judge-Daniells, of New York, has decided that the mu-k sic of “ Der Seekadet ” is common property, but that the libretto is copyright property. Which libretto does he mean ? When was the international copyright law passed? ►	—Mr. Longfellow, in a letter regretting his inability to
attend the Cincinnati Festival, rejoices “at Mr. Buck’s signal success in his ‘ Scenes from the Golden Legends,’ ” and mentions that he is “ much struck with its power and beauty.”
—The centenary of Palestrina is to be celebrated next month in Rome with great solemnity. It is proposed to \ give in full his celebrated “Pope Marcel’s Mass” his “ Po-
bule Meus'' and his “Stabat.” This composer was at one time styled the “ Prince of Music ”	~
—M. Maurel, during his debut in Hamlet, caused a delay which was decidedly prejudicial to the interests of the theatre to which he was attached. Unfortunately it is not only in Paris that these indispositions take place. At St. Petersburg and London it is just the same. Let us hope it will not occur again.—London, Musical Standard.
—Little Benedict Tacagni, a child of six years, the “ mld-shipmite” in an English children’s “Pinafore” company, was taken ill with acute rheumatism and died. During the delirium consequent on his illness he continually sang the “ Pinafore ” music, and the last audible sound that the little fellow uttered was his childish version of “For he ir an Englishman.”
—The statue of Byron is to be placed within the enclos* ure of Hamilton Gardens, opposite the statue of Achilles raised in honor ot the Duke of Wellington, in Hyde Park, London. Hamilton Gardens command a fine view of Hyde Park, and are at the rear of what is known as “ The Terrace,” on Piccadilly, where stand the homes of Baron Rothschild and the Duke of Wellington.
—London music halls are rapidiy becoming political arenas. So-called patriotic songs are sung, and the audience is invited to applaud and hiss in turns, according to their sentiments. A decision is then given as to whether the “ ayes ” have it or not. Lord Headley and Mr. Hunt were lately in a box at the Metropolitan, and, being recognized, were obliged to address the audience, and the acrobats and comiques were nowhere.
—Beetbovon’s biographer, Mr. Thayer, writes (in an article upon Lowell Mason): “The first step was so to explain the elementary rules of writing and reading music, that everyone might be made easily to understand them. His success in this was such that no quack method of ‘making music easy’ has ever been able to obtain any lasting fooling in New England; nor does any pupil of a New England public school desire any other notation than such as was good enough for Handel and Beethoven.”
—A new song, composed by Brinley Richards, and recently successfully introduced at the London Ballad Concerts by Miss Mary Davies, has solved a curious and interesting musical problem. The entire melody, unlike modern music, is formed out of the five-note scale, called the pentatonic, a scale, according to Herr Carl Engel and other ancient authorities, known to and used by the ancient Assyrians and Egyptians, and examples of which are to be occasionally found in Europe, notably in the old Scotch melody “ Auld lang syne.”
Scientific Notes.
—The Vesuvius railway from the observatory to the crater will be opened in April.
—The work of casting the lenses of the great refracting telescope of the Paris Observatory has already begun. The founding of the flint disc has taken five days, and the annealing a full month.
—The assassination of the French explorer, M. Wallon, in Sumatra, is confirmed. M. Guillaume shared his fate. They were ascending the river Tengung, in the northern part of Sumatra, when they were murdered by Atchinese brigands.
—Gloucester fisherman, recently returning from the Banks, gave to the United Slates National Museum several choice curiosities, among them a chimaera plumbea feet long, the largest specimen the Fish Commissioners have received, twin-gilled eels, a sea cauliflower, a sea pumpkin, sea blackberries, wolf fish, leopard fish, blue hake, and a butter fish.
—The latest plan for crossing the dreaded English channel is embodied in a model now before the Admiralty for a monster floating railway-station, which is to carry trains across the chanel at the rate of fourteen knots an hour. It is stated that “ each train would provide accommodations for 2,000 passengers.” which would require sixty or more railway-carriages.
564	THE NOTRE DAME SCtfOLAStlC.
—A correspondent of La Nature sends that paper a photograph of a curious phenomenon met with in the cold of December last It shows a bottle which contained a solution of nitrate of silver (1 per cent). The cork is forced out and imprisoned at the extremity ot a long cylinder of ice, due to the increase of the volume of the mass in freezing. The bottle was also cracked and several pieces detached.
—Edison’s telephone has been established between the Pic du Midi and Bagneres, a distance ot fifteen miles. The interference of a cloudy and stormy stratum of air threatened to overpower the instrument. This is, we believe, the first lime that anything like this has been noticed. However, by improving the instruments, the difficulty has been overcome, and ordinary conversation is now distinctly audible.
—An English scientific journal relates that while the sailors of H. M. S. Faraday, aided by the new system of electric illumination, were one night lowering a cable, they noticed an immense number of fish of all sizes and shapes gathering around the spot. By promptly throwing out nets they were enabled to make an extraordinary haul. The electric light may doubtless be employed to advantage by fishing boats.
—M. Saccardo of Padua has made public the results of his experiments on modifying the color of flowers. By mingling iron filings with the soil in which hortensias are planted, these flowers assume a blue color. As regards flowers already cut, by dipping pinks in a solution of aniline or eosine, the pistils and petals will gradually turn into a brilliant blue, if the flowers are white; into violet, if red; into green, if yellow. Camelias and chrysanthemums undergo the same modification. If a bulb of the latter be dipped into a solution of eosine, and afterward planted, the plant will live for several days and produce flowers of the colors already mentioned.
—M. Fernique, formerly a pupil of the French School of Archseology at Borne, has published two studies on archaeology and ancient geography. The first, “Etude fiur Prfeneste Ville du Latium,” is an elaborate work on the celebrated city and on its renowned temple. He has carefully studied on the spot the smallest ruins left of the ancient edifices, and has collected all the information given by preceding authors. He has also attempted the reconstruction of the ancient edifices. One chapter is exclusively devoted to the archseology of Pieoeste, and especially to the engraved ciste, or bronze chests. The second work, “ De Begione Marsorum,” is an exact description of the Marsic region, for the compilation of which the author visited every village in the district, minutely studying the soil and the ruins..
Exchanges.
—The Haverfordian is a handsomely printed sheet, with abundant margin. The following editorial note, from its last issue, shows that the editors are not so selfish as some might suppose: “It might seem, from the number of articles we have received contributed by students, that the editors are very selfish; that they wished to write aU the matter they print, and publish only their own sentiments. But now, fellow-students, such is not our intent. We wish to be liberal. And we take this opportunity to invite every student of the College to write for the College paper; for such it is, and such we intend to maintain it. It is stated in our heading that ‘2he Haverfordian is the official organ of the students of Haverford College.’ We desire it to represent, as nearly as possible, the thought and the life of the College. And it is evident that this cannot be done by two or three. Some are interested in scientific investigation, some especially^ the sports of the College, some more than others in a certain class of literature. Now, we only ask you to note the results of your investigation and ideas as they occur to you, develop them when opportunity affords, and give them to us properly digested. We would like also to have the jokes and small incidents which occur on the campus, at the table, and in the recitation-room. We do not, however, promise to publish every article that is handed in. But we shall endeavor to exercise a fair dis
cretion; and rejected articles will be promptly returned to the writer, and no further exposition made of it." Our motive for publishing this extract will be apparent to many. We hope the matter will be taken home and pondered by those whom it should concern.
—The University, the medium or organ of the Law and Medical departments of the University of Michigan, has only entered upon its eighth number, but in the brief space of two months its editors have done the work of years, and have done it well. To say that The University has made itself a name and fame among college papers of every excellence is not too much,—it is simply asserting a fact, and to-day it is, we believe, the peer of the best of the Eastern college papers. The variety of its matter, and the able manner in which it is written or compiled make it interesting from the first to the last of the sixteen pages, and eight pages of advertisements show that its influence is appreciated by the public. The paper does honor to its editors, and now that a journalistic education is so highly appreciated and called tor in colleges, we think we can say that such a course of study and practice is given in the University of Michigan. Those who call for a journalistic course in colleges—and they are many—make a grave mistake; such a course cannot come exclusively through the text-books, or by way of lectures; it can be obtained only by persistent study in a general way, and on general topics, with still more persistent practice in writing, and these find an excellent medium for development in the college paper or magazine. Tnere is nothing but empty space behind this recent clamor for a journalistic course of studies, and those from whom it emanates are probably the last who would take advantage ot such a course if it could be established. How often do they contribute an article, or local items, or jokes, or personals, to their college paper? We think that in this respect they will be found conspicuous by their absence. And yet this writing for the college paper is the only practical way to become a good journalist. Those who write for the college press know this, and profit by the fact; those who do not write, but who wish to take a short-cut to the height of journalistic fame, will seek in vain. They grope with their eyes shut Such a short cut is not to be found, and while they indulge in vain speculations and inglorious ease their fellow-students are working their way to renown. We have often said this in other words, and now we reiterate it, but our readers only closed their eyes and commenced to build castles in Spain. Wake up, boys; and goto work; this is the way to become a journalist.
—The Milton College Journal, always a neat and ably edited paper, (though rather diminutive in size) comes to us now in a new dress of type, and as brilliant and glossy as il, like Sambo’s ebony face, it had been specially oiled for the occasion. With its fine, tinted paper, new type, and glossy ink, it looks the picture of a neat and well-to-do little journal. And such it undoubtedly is. But the merit of the Milton College Journal is not by any means confined to its paper, typography and press-work. Within its pages can be found ably written essays, poetry, (well, we suppose it will pass muster with the bulk of the article under this caption found in college papers) editorials above the common, and which sometimes would do credit to the best of our college papers. We have been more than ordinarily well pleased with some of the recent editorials of The College Journal, so much so that we laid numbers of the paper aside in the hope of publishing some of the articles or taking extracts from them; but, alas, for our good resolutions in this as in so many respects, a multitude of other duties soon crowded them out of our thoughts. Our subscribers may have lost something by our want of energy in this respect, we will allow, but they cannot blame us. They little wot of the difficulties that a college editor must encounter, and especially the editor of a weekly like the Scholastic; if they did, we would not be blamed for taking “rec." once in a while, and letting them go without a paper. If one had plenty of time, or could write when he Is in the humor, or had the cacoethes scrib-indi, editing would be a delightful task; but such is not the case. When the printer wants “ copy ’’ he must have it, whether you have time to write it or not,—that is a settled fact, and there is no going behind it. But we have our “ pillar of fire by night and our cloud by day ’’ to screen
I
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	M5
us from odium for any apparent lack of energy, and this is, “ lack of time.” Lack of time, and not want of appreciation, is our apology lor much of the neglect on our part of many excellent things in our contemporaries that should be noticed in the columns of the Scholastic, and when our readers and brother editors consider that we have to fill out nearly twelve pages weekly with very scant support, we think they should iind us an excuse lor passing by many good things that come in our way in the college papers. But we will—right here, for fear we should forget it—now give part of an editorial from the College Journal that admits of a wide application here and elsewhere, as well as at Milton. It not as good by a long way as some things w e have seen in that paper, but it points a moral. Here it is: “Milton College has some very, very poor alumni—men with a salary of a thousand or more dollars a year; yet they are. too poor to take their college papers, although they have but small families, and live in small towns. We can excuse such persons for not contributing copy, for ‘ their time is iully occupied in their profession,’ but when men of means, but a few years out of college, and in whose bosoms there ought to be at least a spark of alma-maternal love as yet unquenched by parsimony, order their paper stopped, those who are working to make the same as suc-cesstul as possible are tilled with disgust at the selfishness of human kind. ... We might say that if you have but one dollar that can be spared, spend it for some benevolent purpose; and if you do this, and wish at the same time to manliest your gratitude to the Institution which prepared you for life, spend it lor her paper; spend it like a prince; don’t be niggardly; don’t be parsimonious.’ ’’
New Publications.
A Selection of Moobe's Melodies, Translated into the Irish Language by the Most Kev. John Mac dale, Archbishop of Tuain. Lynch, Cole & Meehan, 12 Warren St., New York.
The book belore us is undoubtedly neat and attractive in its appearance, and, as to its subject-matter, we have but little to say ; lor the two great names in connection with it are a sufficient guarantee of its goodness. The Irish translation oi “Moore’s Melodies” by the great Archbishop of the West is something that cannot be too highly prized; it is, in tact, a master-piece in its kind. But this is not ail Dr. MacHale has done for the diffusion oi the language of the Gael. His translation of Homer into Irish hexameter is well known, and this, taken together with his other labors in regard to the spread of the Irish language, stamps him as a most indeiatigable laborer in a most noble cause. To the above volume is added, by way oi appendix, a collection ol popular pieces, culled from the works oi some of Ireland’s most cherished sons; so, that taken all in all, it is of a most interesting character, and cannot lad to meet with a large sale. The price, too—twenty-five cents—is so low that no one will hesitate to purchase it, and thus aid in a work most beneficial in its nature, and most satisfactory in its results—the spread of the grand old Gaelic tongue.
The Appabition of the Blessed Viegin, St. Joseph, and St. John the Evangelist at Knock, Co. Mayo, Ibel and. By bister Mary Eraueis Clare, “ 1’he Nun of Keninare" Author of “Ihe Illustrated History oi Ireland,” “Life of at. Patrick,” Etc., New York: Lynch, Cole & Meehan, office of the Irish American, 12 Warren Street.
We live in an age in which, unfortunately, the tendency oi the human mind is towards infidelity and materialism—in which every thing that is connected with God, or His chosen ones in Heaven, is regarded and looked upon as something unworthy ot the attention of a thinking mind—in which everything that is above the domain oi man’s natural poweis is cast aside and treated with contempt and derision; ,in a word, in which Reason shines forth pre-eminent as the one grand arbiter oi events. No wonder, then, if at the present day we find so many individuals who regard miracles and the manifestations of God to man, as something impossible, and in every way op* posed to reason and common sense; hence such things are regarded as unworthy of any notice or recognition, and held up as subjects ot ridicule. Now, we say that any person whose mind is clear and unbiased by prejudice,
that reads the beautiful ably-written introduction to the little woik lately'produced by that gifted author, “The Nun of Kenmare,” musLbe convinced that “ wonderful are the ways of God” in His relation with man. Long, in* deed, is it since we have read anything with so much interest and pleasure as “ The Irish Lourdes,” a book which should be found in every Catholic family, but especially in that of the “sons of Erin,” in whose dear cld land the august Mother of God has deigned to appear at a time when famine and desolation rage with an almost impetuous fury. The very name ot the author, whose writings are so extensive and so universally read, is a sufficient guarantee that it will meet with a wide circulation. The small price oi 25 cents, for which this beautiful little volume is sold, places it within the reach oi every one; and a truer or more interesting account of the apparitions at Knock, and of the many miracles lately performed there, cannot as yet be found. The gifted “ Nun oi Kenmare ” may well feel proud of this, her latest production, and we hope it will meet with the circulation it so well deserves.
CoHege Gossip.
—Sweden has two universities; Norway, one.
—President Angell has been Hayes-Ing.—Chronicle. Oh, what a wicked angel!
—Amherst has started a society for political discussion known as the Greeley Uluo.—Chronicle.
—The University of Louavin, founded in 1426 by Duke John oi Brabant, contained at one time 6,000 students.
—The Chronicle is agitating for a gymnasium at the University of Micmgan; me Echo for plank walks at Harvard.
—Twelve large stained-glass windows have been presented to tne Benedictine College at Fl Augustine, Scotland.
—Butler’s Analogy—Prof.: “ Mr. T---------, you may pass on to the ‘Future Lite.’” Mr. T----------: “Not prepared.” —Ex.
—Caps and gowns are to be worn by Williams College, students m wmeh to graduate, instead of dress suits.—The University.
—“Will you name the bones of the head?” “I’ve got them all in my head, Prolessor; but I can’t give mem.”—Ex.
—Mr. Hegeler, of La Salle, Ill., has contributed $250 towards a gymnasium fund for the University of Michigan. Next ?
—Mr. John Henry Challis, long a resident of Sydney, who died recently, nas left the large sum of $100,000 to the Sydney University.
—The thirty-one colleges possessed by the Jesuits in France are .-aid to contain no lewer than 15,000 scholars.—Cleveland Catholic Universe.
—The Hamilton Lit discusses the pro and con of the marking system. Very mucn con and precious little pro they seem to find.—Beacon.
—Some of the late graduates of the University of Mich* igan;did not leave college, but are.taking studies in the literary department. Sensible Laws!
—The college clock is coming to dissolution; XI on the dial has lost its figure I, and the chances are X to l it won’t be luund.—Amherst /Student.
—The Cornell Review hits the nail squarely on the head. At the end ot one of its exchange notes, it says: “In making clippings, would it not be more courteous to give their imliviuual sources, instead of putting the indefinite after each ? ” Of course it would, and without detracting in the least irom the interest of the item or the credit of the paper that copies the item. Often when quoting an item irom our college contemporaries we are ioiced to conclude with me “Ex." because no other credit is given. We have frequently noticed our own iiems copied without any credit whatever—not even the “2?x,” to indicate that they were other Hum original with the paper copying them.
566
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, May 15, 1880.
The.attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all, -	Old Students should take it.
Terms, 8L.5O Per A.n.num, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
•	Notre Dame, Indiana.
. If a subscriber falls to receive the Soholastio regularly he will confer a favor by sending ns notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, aa, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription Hat are printed.
The progress of life is one of those many-sided and difficult questions that arise from time to time in the thinking mind of man. When we consider the manner in which men are inclined to act in regard to that portion of time that constitutes their earthly existence there is reason to think and ponder well why it is that the rising of the sun is to them a source of joy; that the setting of the sun is also a source of joy, while at the same time they know that their lives are made up of days, and that each day as it passes by brings them a step nearer to the grave. Again, they rejoice on seeing the face of a new season, and are apt to look upon it as something greatly desired, while at the same time they know that the revolution of the seasons is their own decay. Here, then, are found what seem to be two conflicting features in man. He likes what is his own destruction, and again he dislikes this destruction. Time as it passes is admired by him, and when his portion of it has fled he laments and bewails the loss. He sees it going, and he rejoices; and when it is gone he is sad. This is indeed one of the many peculiarities of life,—a mighty river- that swells and rises on its onward course, until its waters are finally lost in the great ocean of eternity.
Again, when we look at the transient pleasures and comforts that may be a man’s portion here below, we may well compare him to a piece of driftwood that in the middle of the wide ocean meets with a companion, and thus journeys on for a short time to separate forever. The separation of men from all that is near and dear to them in this life is so sure that there can be nothing surer to them. The common lot of all is to die, and this no mortal can escape. He who mourns for departed friends mourns to no purpose, as he has no power to cause them to return. One standing t on the high road would readily say to the passers-by: “I'
will follow you.” Why, then, should a person grieve for having to travel that road which has been travelled by all before him ?
Life resembles a rapid stream that flows on with a force irresistible. Knowing that the end of life is death, and that death is the wages of sin, every right-minded man ought to pursue that which is good—which is connected with the happiness, the blessedness and the glories of eternity.
—On Thursday, the 6th inst., we had the pleasure of attending a dress parade of the Senior and Junior Military Companies, under the comniand of Mr. T. Cocke, of Memphis, Tenn. Among those present we noticed Very Rev. President Corby, and several members of the Faculty. Although it is only a short time since the companies were organized, the knowledge of military tactics which they displayed, and the facility and readiness with which they went through the various evolutions were such as to surprise eveiy one present Mr. Cocke belongs to the celebrated Chickasaw Guard, known as one of the first drill companies of the country. He can feel justly proud of the progress already made by those under his command, and may confidently look forward to having, at no distant day, a military organization equal to any similar one in the West At the close of the parade, Very Rev. President Corby congratulated the young men on the progress they had already made, and on having such a skilful teacher of militaiy tactics as Mr. Cocke. He said that it was his intention to have a stand of arms and a number of field-pieces secured for their use as soon as possible, and that he hoped .before June to see them all in full uniform, and forming a company that all might be proud of.
It would seem from the number of articles which have appeared during the past two or three years in the columns of our paper, on the proper observance of charity and politeness, that around Notre Dame there would not be an individual found who did not strive to practice these charming traits of character. Yet, in spite of all that has been said on these two points, we meet with persons every day who seem not to have the least idea of what true gentlemanly conduct is, or in what consists that most ennobling of all virtues—charity. They seem to be so wrapt up in their own conceit, and in the idea they form of themselves, that they actually despise, censure, and condemn in every act of theirs the rights of their fellowmen—those with whom they come in daily contact. Now, if there is anything disgusting, it is to see an ignoramus of this kind—to see one, who is neither a man nor a boy, so wrapt up in himself—so full of himself, that beyond himself there is no one that can claim his consideration or attention for a single moment. All are but dust in his eyes; he takes special delight in inventing names by which he may call them; he sneers at their every word, no matter how, or in what manner it is uttered, and seems to say to himself “ I’m the man, all others are but trash.”
We would like to ask one of these ill-minded, largeheaded, little-brained, good-for-nothing individuals whence does he get that great opinion of himself,—whence comes it that he’s somebody and all others nobody? Does it fol. low that because he imagines that the world would fall to pieces, if he were not here to keep it together,—that this
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	56?
-I

would really take place, if he were to bid us good-bye and step across the River Styx? Now, there may be reason in everything, but there is no reason in being a fool—and a fool that man is who does not respect the rights of others, who does not see in his neighbor a single good or redeem-4 ing quality. Self-praise may be always regarded as no praise, and the man that praises himself and censures others is simply exposing his own ignorance, and making plain how far he is advanced in everything that goes to make the true gentleman.	'	'
If there is anything necessary for a person to possess it is politeness, or the art of making himself agreeable to his companions; and this acquirement is of so high and elevating a nature that the man in whom it is found is truly a man in every sense of the term, and no matter what may be said about him, in regard to his extensive learning, etc. he has one quality that will always stand by him, and be his friend and companion through life, and that is politeness.	.
The polite man and the charitable man must forever be ■ the true ideal of a good and generous soul—of a soul illumined by God’s grace, and walking in the paths that lead to true happiness and contentment.
We are sure the authorities here feel grateful to all who in any way have assisted in replacing the libraries, destroyed by the disastrous fire of April 23rd, ’79. To us, it has been a source of pleasure to publish from time to time if not all, at least a portion of the works donated by John Murphy & Co., Baltimore; Col. W- Marshall Anderson, Circleville, Ohio; Cunningham & Son, Arch St., Philadelphia; Benziger Bros., New York; John Allyn, Boston, Mass.; B. Herder, Indianapolis; and others. These gentlemen well knew what an awkward thing a college is without a good library; hence, they contributed $ their mite, and gave the example to others to go and do likewise.
It is well known that the libraries destroyed' by the burning of Notre Dame were as valuable and as nearly complete as could be found anywhere; hence it will take J a long time to replace them,—and, to our mind, they can scarcely ever be properly replaced. But yet, this is not the I k question; the gentlemen above alluded to have done their duty in their regard, and that is all that may or can be ex--pected of them. Now to a number of others, who could have done a little in this way, what have we to say? ’ Well, the truth is we cannot say much—we only say: contribute a little towards replacing the libraries of Notre Dame, and by it you won’t lose anything. No one ever lost a great deal by being kind, and by helping where and when he can. Charity covereth a multitude of sins; and since this ' is the case, why are we so slow in doing a good turn, in ' assisting a most noble cause—the education of our youth? When we consider that the young must read, no matter , what they do read, and that we are responsible in a certain ■ sense for not furnishing them with what they need or should have in this respect, we think all will agree in say. ing that a good library and reading-room is no unconsid-Iered trifle in a college, but a substantial and important factor—something that goes to discipline the heart and mind—that will no donbt be productive of good and of a practical benefit to the students.
■	Students must read if they wish to know anything; for
without reading there is no solid learning, and without
observation there is no keen-sightedness or penetration of mind. In a library, then, should be found every work that can be productive of moral good—of an influential and enlightening nature; so that students may use them to advantage, and store their minds therefrom with good and useful knowledge—knowledge that will stand by them in after life, when they stand in that field where they only will win who are well trained—who have a general knowledge of men and things, who know how to act and take well their parts in the great drama of lite.
He who donates a work to a college library is doing a noble deed; for although small in itself, it may be productive of much good, and may assist in forming and disciplining a mind that will afterwards shine a glory on the country at large, and be the cause of a general good to the land that bore him. The world is made np of small things. Drops of water and grains of sand constitute the Atlantic and the great desert of Sahara; and so it is with regard to all things else. Cities and towns are made up of houses; woods, of trees; heaven, of good actions; books, of ideas; and libraries, of books. We cannot get along at the present time without books; they constitute, as it were, the very essence of our life; they are to the mind what food is to the body; and, perhaps, the greatest good, that can be done in this world is to furnish wholesome reading for the youth of our land. They need it, and more especially while at college. Here the youth think and ponder and weigh well the great principles of human life, the laws that regulate our moral and physical being. They have to consider man as man—consider him in his relation to God and to the society of which he forms a part; and how can all this be rightly done if there be not furnished them these tomes wherein the correct principles of law and order are clearly established, and where are correctly commented upon the formation of Christendom, civil and religious rights, freedom of conscience, and liberty of action?
There is nothing grander, more noble than a well-trained youth—a youth that will uphold the rights for which their grandsires fought and bled, that will take their stand as men of worth and integrity in battling and fighting manfully for a most noble cause—the upholding of the Constitution of this great and free Republic.
Personal.
—A. Dorian (Commercial), ’78, is in business near Peoria, Ill.
—The Voche brothers, ’68, are in the grain business at Defiance, Ohio.
—R. Anderson, ’78, is at present residing with his father at New Orleans.	-	'
—George Orr, ’79, is doing well at his native place Stuebenville, Ohio.
—Isaac Dryfoos (Commercial), ’76, is one of the leading clothers at Fremont, Ohio.
—Rev. T. Denneny, ’73, is pastor of St. Munchin’s Church, Cameron, Mo.
—Rev. B. Brown, Class of ’62, is the efficient pastor of St. Joseph’s Church Crestline, Ohio.
—Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., Class of ’64, has charge of the Catholic Church at Austin City, Texas. .
—Joseph Beegan, ’77, is doing business for a Fort Wayne Firm. We are pleased to hear that Mr. Beegan is doing well.
—Rev. Father Oechtering, Mishawaka, and A. Hilsende-gen, Detroit, Mich., were among the visitors at Notre Dame during the past week.	.
668
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—C. F. Mueller (Commercial), ’79, has become a member of the Real Estate and Money-Loan Firm of Mueller, Adams & Co., Milwaukee, Wis.
—Rev. Father Shortis, C. S. 0., Chaplain of St. Mary’s is fast improving in health, and will in a short time be able to attend to his regular duties.
—Rev. M. F. Noll, the popular and energetic pastor of Elkhart, paid a flying visit to Notre Dame during the past week to say good-bye to his many friends at the College.
—Rev. Father Demers, C. S. C., who arrived here a few weeks ago from Austin, Texas is now stationed at the church of St. Vincent de Paul, New France, Allan Co., Ind.
—D. E. Maloney, Class of ’74, has an extensive law practice at Elgin, Ill. Mr. Maloney, in renewing his subscription to tne Scholastic, says: “ I assure you the scholastic is to me a welcome and desired visitor.’ ’
—Mr. E. F. Kelly, of the Firm of Enright & Kelly, South Water Street, Chicago, 111., accompanied oy his daughter and lue Misses Hutchinson, visited Notre Dame during the past week. His son is a student here.
—Much praise is due to Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. 0., the talented editor of the Ave Maria, lor the interest he lakes in relieving the suffering poor ol Ireland. Tne Kev. Father has now on hand about $500—received thiough the Ave Maria—wmcu he intends io transmit as soon as p ssibie. 1 was hungry, and you gave me to eat, 1 was naked, and you clothed Me: Come, enter thou into the joys of t!w Lord.
—Hon. John Gibbous, ’69, wuo is al present practising law in Chicago, paid a visit io Noire Dame on Monday last. Of the many old students now filling positions oi trust and responsibility, there are very few ol whom the University has more reason to be proud than of Mr. Gibbons, and perhaps fewer still who are more thoruuguiy de. voted to the interests oi Alma Mater. Il is probable that before the close oi the present teim Mr. Gibbons will deliver a course of lectures on ‘ Constitutional Law ” to the Law Class and the advanced Collegiate Courses.
Local Items.
—The dress parades are flue.
—Guns, drums—march! Counter-march!
—The Forty Immortals are expert anglers.
—Washington Hall never looked better than at pi esent.
Competitions will be held next week in the Collegiate Course.
—Two tonsorial artists now find sufficient occupation on Wednesday.
—A sail in the little boat is not a bad thing on a beautiful May morniug.
—The new Military Company throws Captain O’Neil’s Zouaves all in the shade.
—Extensive preparations have been made for the proper reception of the capitulants.
—The Band was out serenading on last Thursday week. Some very fine selections were rendered.
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Mr. Bunbury, oi Niles, for a collection of minerals.
—The plan ol the grounds in front of the College is beautiful; we hope it will be faithfully adhered to.
—The librarians are working hard to replace the libraries. We hope their efforts will be crowned with success.
—Washington Hall has been very tastefully decorated during the past week by the Cecilians, under the direction of Prof. Lyons.
—Our friend John says that now is the winter of his discontent made glorious summer by the thought of Commencement Day.
—The storm of last Sunday night was not altogether unexpected by our weather prophet. He knew all about it the next morning!
—Owing to the evening recreations and May devotions.
the different literary societies have suspended their regular weekly meetings.
—The boats have been removed from their moorings, and may now be seen sailing stately over the placid waters of the Su Joseph’s Lake.
—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to Rev. V. Czyzewfski for a number oi valuable coins donated to the collection of numismatics.
—The Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary held their regular meeting on Wednesday evening, May 5th. Servers for Ascension Day were appointed.
—The address at the last meeting of the Columbian Dramatic Club was delivered by Mr. Euglish. Mr. English, we are pleased to say, acquitted himself well.
—A beautiful mocking-bird was received here a few days ago by one of the Jimor Prefects. The donor has the grateful thanks of the aforesaid party.
—Tne Seniors’ study-hall has improved decidedly in appearance within the last two weeks. This is progress in the right direction, and we nope it will be kepi up.
—Tne Band and Orchestra will in future have their rehearsals in the new Music Hall. Tne rooms on me upper floor of the College will probably do service as a museum.
—The grounds about Calvary- have been lately pul into proper shape. Quite a number of young trees nave been planted mere, mus replacing tnose destroyed by a recent fire.
—What grumbler first started the report that it generally rams on recreation-days? Our impression is mat dm mg the present year Wednesday seems to nave been unusually favored.
—Tne Columbians will hold their annual picnic next week, and it is hoped that everything will come off well. The Committee oi Arrangements are Messrs. Jones, Kin-sella, and Falvey.
—It may be all imagination on our part, but we think that the regular semi-weekly reviews have caused the stu-denls of both departments to be more carelul of their personal appearance.
— Prof. Howard, who would have been glad to decline a re-eleciion to the City Council, was obliged to yield to me wishes oi his many friends, and must consequently do service for another term.
—Before the time to send the Catalogue to press has arrived, a ’meeting of me Faculty will probably lake place io lake action on certain proposed changes in the course of studies and in text-books.
—Friend John says that it would be almost impossible for him to stay at College umil the 30m ol J une—even the very thought of it, he says, is enough to make nim feel heavy, slupid, and an antiquated mortal.
—Tne Minims’ “ Sociable " on Monday was thoroughly enjoyed by the little fellows. Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., ceitainly deserves the thanks ol me department for his untiring efforts to make their year an agreeable one.
—We learn from a correspondent that the third annual Entertainment of the pupils of Bl. John’s School, Treuion, New Jersey, took place on the evening oi tne Utmost., when a varied and interesting programme was rendered.
—The broad-brimmed hats, oi which the students seem to be so iond this year, are very picturesque; but m wearing them so early m the spring, are they not doing what in lashionable circles would be styled “ rushing the season” ?
—A meeting of the standing committee of the Alumni Association was held during me past week to prepare the programme lor Commencement week. It is expected mat an unusually large number of old students will be present in June.
—The furniture of the Commercial Class-room will be renewed during vacation. But this \is not a reason why the members oi the different classes, now taught m me department, should show no mercy .to the old desks aud benches.
—The Cecilians spared no pains during their rehearsals to make me presentation of *• The Malediction ” one of me
J


TBE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	5ft

events of the year. And we all know that failure is a word which the vocabulary of iheir worthy President does not contain.
—The Military Company, under the efficient direction of Captain Cocke, drill twice or thrice a week in the Campus. This exercise is no doubt of a healthy and manly nature, and cannot fail to be beneficial to those young men who take part in it.
—During the present session an unusual degree of interest has been taken by the students of the Senior department in the courses of Christian Doctrine. The new departure, inaugurated in February, certainly deserves to be considered a success.
—Triple Competitions and reviews in the different classes will soon be in order; consequently at no time during the session can spring-fever do more harm. Beware of its ravages! 0, ye youths, who aspire to premiums on Commencement-day.
—Our “ Friend from South Chicago ” succeeded in getting to South Bend last Tuesday. We presume that he exerted himselt as usual to maintain the very favorable impression which his previous visits had created, and that his efforts were crowned with the usual success.
—Quite a number of young apple-trees have been planted withm sight of our office. The horticulturist, realizing that he put the old ones on the straight road to destruction, thought he could do no better than plant a number of young ones, aud so have something to take their place when no more.
—Very Bev. Fathers Sorin and Granger, Bev. Father Louage and Condon, arrived here from France on last Friday. A full report of their reception by the students, and of the Entertainment complimentary to Very Bev. Father Sorin, Superior General, 0, S. C., given on the evening of his arrival by the St. Cecilia Pnilomathean Association, will appear in the next issue of the Scholastic.
—The Juniors enjoyed a well-merited extra recreation of two hours on Tuesday afternoon, as a reward of their unprecedentedly large “ Roll of Honor ” of the preceding week, and although as a rule the Faculty is opposed to extra recreations, yet we think that when one hundred and eighty boys, under seventeen, impose so heroic an effort upon themselves, a little token of appreciation is not out of place.
—Who was it that dared to say that Prof. Stace’s political boom was a hollow fraud—a mockery, farce, delusion, and snare, or words to that effect ? If still there
“breathes a man with soul so dead ”
to historical accuracy, the Prof, thinks he should have .been down at the last meeting of the city fathers, when a ballot was taken for the post of City-Engineer, and lo 1 “ the County Surveyor’s name led all the rest.”
—The weather prophet is unfortunate those days. His prophesies are all talse in regard to sunshine, hail, wind, and rain. He feels sad over this, and comes to the conclusion that he made a mistake in ever constituting himself a weather prophet, and realizes the fact that the best thing he can do—even at this late hour—is to step aside and let some one of a more foreseeing mind take bis place. Good-bye, false prophet, we are sorry to be losing you 1
—The 23d regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and ■Dramatic Association was held Sunday evening, May 9th. Master Roberts, the Comedian, and Master W. Start, of the Philopatrian Association, were present. Songs were sung by Masters SchmUckle, Snee, Jos. Courtney, G. Knight, and C. Roberts. Declamations were delivered by Masters W. Start, T. Van Mourick, Jas. Courtney, and W. Ayers. Master Ayers, having fulfilled the required conditions, was admitted to membership at this meeting.
—The military companies have as yet given no indication of flagging zeal, and the unusually upright carriage and manly bearing-of many of the Seniors and Juniors show the benefit which they are deriving from the drill. The grand review of-last Thursday evening was a complete success; in fact, the proficiency displayed by the young recruits was much greater than the Faculty expected. Captain Cocke is evidently the right man in the
right place, and his exertions have supplied a want long felt in the institution.
—The Juniors’ study-hall can now boast of quite an extensive ornithological collection. Two mocking-birds and two canaries have lately been added to it,'and all are doing their level best to make things lively and increase the general volume of harmony. One of the Senior prefects, who has not heretofore been considered peculiarly gifted as a vocalist, has threatened to teach the mocking-birds to imitate the “ human voice divine,” but our esthetic taste prompts us to express the hope that he will either fail in bis full attempt, or get another man to carry out thewi-dertaking.
—The annual banquet of the Holy Angels’ Society took place last Monday atteruoon. Quite a number were pres-ent, and we believe all did ample justice to the good things set before them. . This Society, whose duty it is to serve at Mass, and perform other functions in the Sanctuary on Sundays and Festivals, is made up of the students in the Minim Department, and has for years been most exemplary in every respect. Mr. McNamara, C. B. C., is their efficient President, and spares no pains to make the Holy Angels an honor to the College; hence, we congratulate both the President and the Society, and hope that they will continue to work together.
—The second game for championship was played on Wednesday, May 5th, between the Juanita and Star of the East Baseball Clubs, the victory resulting in favor of the latter. Tne following is the score:
STAR OF THE EAST.
R. Cambell, p.......... B Claggett, c. f....... W. B. McGornsk, 1. f.. F. Devolo, 1st b....... A. Lent, c............. J. P. Kinney, s. s..... C. H. Karans, 2d b.... J. Smith, 3d b......... J. McNamara, r. f.....
o.
3
4
2
2
3
3
4
1
2
JUANITA-
G. Sugg, 1st b......
G. Pike, 2d b.......
W. Arnold, 1. f.....
M. Burns, r. f......
A. J. Burger, c.....
C. Hagen, p.........
H. Deehan, s. s.....
F. Smith, c. f......
F. Wall, 3d b.......
B. O.
0 1
1 1
0 0
1 1
0
2
3
3
4
3
3
4 1
4
Total............... 6	24
Total................5	27
Umpire—A. S. Rock.
Scorers—F. M. Bell and W. G. Jones.
—The Large Publication Firm, Benziger Brothers, 311 Broadway, N. Y., have sent, with their compliments, the following exquisite collection of books, as a donation to the College Library. They are all of their own publication, and form a very valuable and handsome addition to the Library. The generous donors will please accept the most cordial thanks of the College Authorities: Popular Life of Pope Pius IX—Rev. R. Brennan; Life and Acta of Pope Leo XIII—Rev. J. Keller, 8. J.; Christian Cemetery—Mgr. Gaume; Pictorial L'ves of Saints, with reflections for every day-in the year—Rev. E. McGlynn, D D.; “Theologise Moralis”—St. Liguori; Compendium—A. Konings; Elements of Ecclesiastical Law—Rey. 3. B. Smith, D. D.; Counter Points in Canon Law—Rev. S. B. Smith, D.D.; Linked Lives—Lady Gertrude Douglas; The Jesuits, Their Foundation and History—N. B., 2 vols; Paradise on Earth—Rev. A. Natale, 8. J.; Souvenir of the Novitiate—Rev. E. Taylor; The Christian Mother-Rev. W. Cramer; Rite of Ordinations—Rev. J. S Lynch; First Series of The Catholic Premium-Book Library, containing 15 8vo vols., with iromispiece, beautifully bound in imitation cloth, sides and back being in black and gold. They are all translations from the French, very instructive and entertaining. Bertha; or, the Consequences of a Fault—Mrs. Mary Huntington; Cap’ain Rougemont; or, The Miraculous Conversion and The Disown —-ed; Cassilda; or, The Moorish Princes of Toledo—Mrs. Mary Monroe; Episodes of The Paris Commune in 1871—Lady
6?0
THE KOTRE DAMS SCHOLASTIC.
Blanche Murphy; The Adventures of a Casket—Theophile Menard; The Better Part; or, Scenes from Real Life —Lady Blanche Murphy; The Fisherman’s Daughter— Mrs. Mary Monroe; The Great-Grandmother’s Secret— Lady Blanche Murphy; The Priest of Auvigny’s; or, How a Christian Avenges Himself and The King of the Bean—Mary Monroe; By Lady Blanche Murphy, The Village Steeple, Commentaries on Home Education, or, A Mother’s Advice to her Children, Marcella, A True Story, The Adventures of a French Captain, Blanche de Marstlly, an Episode of the Revolution and other Tales, Anthony; or, the Silver Crucifix—H. Bengnon.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association gave their 22d Annual Summer Entertainment (complimentary to Very Rev. E. Sonn, Superior-General) on Friday evening, May 14th. The following is the programme rendered:
PART FIRST.
Grand Opening March........................N.	D. U. Band
Song and Chorus............................W.	Glee Club
Address ol the Evening........................M. J. Burns
Declamations................W. McCarthy and C. A Tinley
Music.........................................Orchestra
Prologue......................................E. A Otis
how many hairs Raminagrobis has, supposing that we allow 1784 on every square inch? and send me the answer to Sweeney’s Hotei, New York.” Now, the cat is supposed to be 13 inches long, including neck; 4 inches in average diameter; has legs, 6 inches long, 1 inch in average diameter; tail, 11 inches long, in average diameter. Allowing 36 square inches lor head and ears, the cat’s skin contains 2920404 square inches, which, multiplied by 1784, gives 521000.0736 hairs. Very Rev. President Corby, Rev. Father Walsh and Bro. Leander presided the working of the problem, and expressed themselves highly pleased with the quickness and intelligence shown by the Minims. The first who came forward with the answer was Master C. Ecblin, Buena Vista, Colorado, and to him the examiners awarded the beautiful picture sent by Very Rev. Father Sorin to the one who gave the answer first. Next in turn were Masters Joseph S. Courtney, Washington, D. C.; James F. Smith, Circleville, Ohio; James M. Courtney, Washington, D. C.; George E. Tourtillotte, Toledo, Ohio; Charles E. Droste-Cincinnati, Ohio; H. C. Snee, Chicago, Ill.; D. G. Tay, lor, St. Louis, Mo.

PART SECOND.
“THE MALEDICTION.”
Roll of Honor.
A Drama in Three Acts. Written by a Renowned Italian Jesuit, and Translated from the French by a Member of the Class of ’49, for the Cecilians.
CHARACTERS.
Don Vasco De Gomez (A Spanish Nobleman).......M. Jas. Burns Don Alonzo (Son of Don Vasco).................William	J. McCarthy
Don Lopez (Confident of Alonzo)...............Chas	A. Tinley
Tank (Lieutenant to the Caliph).............Jno.	A Gibbons
Pedro (A Peasant).............................Elmer A. Otis
Pedrillo (Son of Pedro)....................Eugene C. Orrick
Fabricio (“'	“	“)......................Frank A. Quinn
Ibrahim (A Rich Mahometan).................Alexander Caren
Juanino (Slave of Ibrahim).............Walter M. Thompson
Mendoza (A Spanish Officer).................Frank	B. Phillips
Marietto........)	f... Anton. J. Buerger
Basilio.........j	‘.....John B. Weitzel
Sancho.....I o—j ...Chas J. Brinkman Virginio...f Spanish Soldiers. <.Cha8 j. McDermott Leon........ t	}.............H. Rose
Leandro.........j	(......George Foster
.....Jos. P. O’Neill .....Jno. W. Guthrie (... .Frank H. Grever l....A Hintze
< . .Bobert E. Fleming (...James K. Schobey i.....Richard Parrott '.....Charles Rietz ......J. Morgan ......Ed G. Sugg ......Frank Dever .. .Albert Hellebusch ’.....A Rock
.......L. Keen ......F. Kline ......J. Herman ......T. Flynn ......R. E. O’Connor ■ ....  .N.....Weny
,.................P.	Perley
...................E.	Orrick
Spanish Soldiers.
Abdalla (A Mahometan Officer).. Jirmibeehliek (A Turkish Slave) Melgig.........
Tchad..........
Ugani......... Pain Tchad.... Abdul........ Gensaro...... Dion.......... Virgilio..... Ruisco....... Madrido....... Don Columbo. Don Stacio.... Doh Philppo.. Don Tomazo.. Don Juan..... Tabriz....... Kelat........ Frebizonde... Epilogue......
- Turkish Soldiers.
■ Peasants.
Spanish Attendants.
• Turkish Officers.
Closing Remarks... MarchforRetiring
Tableau.
.N. D. U. C. Band
In the 2d Act Alonzo bears the name Almanzo, and in the 3d Act that of Ferdinando. In the 2d Act Lopez bears the name of Sololman. After Act 1st, music by the Orcnestra: after Act. 2d music by N. D. U. C. B. Masters Brinkman, Grever and Guthrie will sing during the play.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, J. P. Brice, F. Brennon, F. AL Beil, F. W. Brown, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. E. Clarke, T. F. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, H. Dulaney, A. Dobson, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, I. J. Gittings, G. Harns, W. Hamilton, W. Hesse, Jno. Hunt, C. H. Karins, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, P. B Larkin, A A Lent, F. Lynch, E Lynch, R. Lanham, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, J. McNamara, P. McCormick, E..Molitor, A. Meyer, C. Moore, T. A Mattingly, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, L. Mathers, J. R. Marlett, J. Noonan, G. Nester, L J. Newton, R. C. O’Brien, J. Osher, G. Pike, L. N Proctor, W. Ryan, O. Randolph, T. W. Simms, G. Suge, J. Solon, P. F. Shea, L. Stitzel, J. Smith, F. L. Smith, R. D. Stewart, W. Scholfield, C. B. Van Dusen, H. Wathen, C. Whalen, W. Wilson, A Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Browne, A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, T. P. Byrne, A A. Bodine, H. W. Bachman, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, M. G. Butler, F. L. Carter, A Caren, E. H. Croarkin, A. M. Coghhn, W. 8. Cleary, J. D. Coleman, J. W. Devitt, F. T. Dever, J. E. Davis, G. W. De Haven, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, H. G. Foote, J. J.’ Gordon, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, F. Glade, H. G. Guynn, E. H. Gaines, E. G. Gallagher, E. F. Gall, M. E. Herrick, A J. Hintze, J. A. Herrmann, A. F. Hellebusche, F. R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuan, L. 8. Keen, R. Le Bourgeois, 8. Livingston, F. McPhil-lips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A 8. Manning, N. J. Nelson, P. P. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, J. P. O’Neil, E. A. Otis, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, F. A Quinn, G. J. Quinn, C. H. Roberts, C F. Rietz, G. J. Rhodius, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A 8. Rock, J. K Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A Seeger, J. M. Scanlan, C. Schneider, C. A. Tinley, C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, M. A Vedaer, N. T. Weny.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. E. Droste, D. G. Taylor, G. P. Van Mourick, G. E. Tour* tilo»te, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney. J. 1. Smith, C. C. Ech-lin, J. A Campau, H. Dunn, G. C. Knight, J. W. Bannister, W. M. Olds, H. A Kitz, E. A Howard, W. Hanivan, G. Woodson, F. Mattes, A A Molander, W. V. O’Malley, J. J. Henry, A Van Mourick, W. Ayres, F. B. Farrelly, J. A. Kelly, J. E. Chaves, E. C. Campau, E. O’Donnell, H. Ackerman, C. Metz, H. Metz, W. Miller, L. J. Young, C. Young, H. C. Snee, J. R. Bender, J. H. Dwenger, J. E. Johnson, A F. Schmiicide.
4
4
4
Baminagrobis Among the Minims.
Raminagrobis, the “Kilkenny cat,” given to Very Rev. Father Sorin by one of the members of the Faculty, who visited Ireland last summer, has been made the subject of an arithmetical problem by the students of the Minim Department. Writing to them from Paris, Very Rev. E. Borin, Superior-General says: “Could you not tell me
Class Honora.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
W. McAtee, J. Marlett, T. Kavanagh, W. Wilson, C. Whalen, L. Stitzel, J. Solon, F. Smith, W. Ryan, J. Osher, P. McCor-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	Wl
mlck, R. Keenan, 7. Kinsella, G. Hanis, M. Falvey, F. Brennan, B. Casey, G Donnelly, M. English, J. Brice, J. Smith, J.McCar-tby, R. Fleming, F. Dever, R. Semmes, C. Rietz, P. Joyce, J. Davis, A. J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, F. Phillips F. Scheid.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography— C. Karins, J. McNamara, N. Weny, W. Cleary. E. Coyne, P. Eletcher, A. Rohrbach; Grammar— C. B. Van Dusen, J. Solon, W. Ryan, M. B. Falvey. R. Fleming, R. Semmes; Arithmetic—R. Fleming, M. B. Falvev ; Geography —C. Whalen, O. Farrelly, R. Fleming, J. Brown; United States History—J.Gibbons,J. Davis; Book-Keeping*---; Business
Penmanship—J. H. Delaney, J. Gibbons, M. J. Burns, A. Cogh-lin, P. Nelson, E. Croarkin.
* No report handed in.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Visitors; Mrs. Stace, Denneson, O.; Hon. J. Gibbons, Mr. Kelly, Mr. Buck, Mrs. Fox, Mrs. Rietz, Miss Rietz, and Master Rietz, Miss Kelly, Miss Hutchinson, Hortense Hutchinson, Mr. O’Connor, Chicago; Miss Little, Niles, Mich.; Miss. Fruitt, Edwardsburg, Mich.; Mr. Ruppe, Hancock, Mich.; Mr. Ball, Mr. Connell, Plymouth, Ind.; Mrs. Gilbert, Louisville, Ky.; Miss Gilbert, Paris, Mich.
—The annual spiritual retreat was brought to a close on the morning of Ascension Day, when the Catholic pupils received Holy Communion at early Mass. On this day the Rev. director of the retreat preached the closing sermon at High Mass. Rev. Father L’Etourneau was celebrant. The pupils of the Academy acknowledge with fervent gratitude their indebtedness for the instructions imparted duiing the retreat, and give evident proofs that the grace afforded them at this time has been thoroughly appreciated.
Boll of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
honorably mentioned in the
Graduating Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 1st Class—Misses Gordon. Buck. 2d Div.—Misses Neu, Usselman, Sullivan. 2d Class—Misses Kirchner, Farrell, Campbell. Rosing, Kilielea. 2d Drv.—Miss McMahon. 3d Class—Misses M. McGrath, Semmes, Wells, Salomon, Callinan, Gall, Bruser, Reinhard, Cortright Dallas, Maloney. 2d Drv.—Misses C. Hackett Julius, Woodin, H. Hackett English, Bischoff, A. Ewing, Horner. 4th Class—Misses Crummey, Price, C. Campbell, Cavenor, Palmer. 2d Drv.—Misses Mitchell, Garrity, Otto, Fox, French, Wurzburg, Van Namee, Leydon. 5th Class—Misses O’Connor, C. Wathen, Regensburg, Purdy, Loeber, Keys, Brown, Danaher, Casey, A. Dillon, Gavan. 2d Div.—Misses Dessaint, Orr, L. Wells, Cronin, Feehan, Simms, 8. Wathen, Harrison, Paddock, Lancaster, Legnard, Hutchinson, Gibbons, Wall, 'Hammond, Reutlinger, Lloyd. Populorum, Thompson, E. Populorum, Moxon, Fitzgerald, K. Lancaster. 6th Class—Misses Rasche, Fleming, Barlow, Duncan, Knighton, Fishburne, Greenebanm, Murphy, McFadden. De Lapp, Baroux, Ryan, Papin, Ryan, Carter, Chirhart. 2d Div.—Misses Ginz, G. Taylor, Wright, Watson, Zimmerman, Clarke, Ward, Edelen, Taylor, ’ Cox, Lemontey, Moll, Swayze, Wilkins. 7th Class—Misses Engel, Halloran, I. Smith, Reynolds, McCormick, McCoy, McCloskey, L Hackett 8th Class—Misses B. Garrity, Butts, Cleghorn, Fisk, Heeney, A. Smith. 9th Class—Misses M. Baroux, M. Fitzgerald, Chaves. 10th Class—Misses P. Ewing, T. Ewing.	_
Harp—1st Class—Miss Galen. 2d. Div.—Misses L Semmes, Dillon. 3d Div.—Miss Bruser.
Organ—5th Class—Misses C. and, 8.,Wathen., , - Harmony—1st Class—Misses ,Gal?n,„ Dillon- tKeenan., - 2d. Qlaas—Misses Gordon, Buck. 3d. Class—Misses Usselman, Neu.
Elements of Thorough Base—Misses Sullivan, Kirchner, McMahon, Rosing, Gall, A. Ewing, Farrell, Campbell, Semmes; Cortright.	.
Theoretical Classes—Misses Hackett, Dallas. Wells, Dan-aber, English, Julius, Bischoff, Reinhard, Purdy, Garrity, Call!. ; nan, C. Wathen, Bruser, 8. Wathen, Wurzburg, Moxon, Otto, Mitchell, Horner, Claffey, Simms, Lloyd, Price, Fox, Van Na-mee, Leober, Murphy, Rasche, Lancaster, Ward, Crummey, Dea-saint, Leydon, Fitzgerald, Regensburg, Greensbaum, Paddock, Gavan, Hammond, Casey, McFaaden, French, 8. Smith, Gibbons, Taylor, G. Taylor. Keys, Fleming, Moll, Thompson,, McCoy, Brown, Swayze, Reynolds, Legnard, Wright.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
2d Class—Misses Wall, Callinan, Horner. 3d Class—Misses Crummey, Feehan, Hammond, Baroux, Garrity, Barlow.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses A. Ewing, Butts, Thompson, Casey, Fox, J. Wells, Lancaster, C. Lancaster.
China Painting.
Misses L Semmes, Dessaint, A. Ewing, Zahm. oil-painting.
1st Class—Misses Neteler, Hambleton, Buck. 2d Class— Misses I. Semmes, Dessaint, Kilielea, C. Campbell, Gavan, Dillon, Zahm. 3d Class—Misses English, Sullivan, Purdy, Winston, Papin, Otto, French.
GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Misses C. Hackett Fitzgerald, A. Ryan, Halloran, Simms, Rasche, Donnelly, Murphy, Edelen, Quinn, Bruser, Walsh.
Junior Department—Misses Carter, Duncan, E. Populorum, Knighton, Gibbons, Legnard, Paquette, Jaeger, Harrison, Claffey, Clarke, Reutlinger, Lemontey, McCloskey, A. Dillon, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Haney, Hu’chinson, E. Ryan, C. Ryan.
Ornamental Needlework.—Misses S. Wathen, Danaher, Otto, Gavan, Mitchel), Smith, Donnelly, C. Wathen, Murphy, Callinan, Orr, Populorum, Reynolds, McCormick, McCoy, Crummey, Simms, Regensburg, Wall, Legnard, Duncan, Ginz, Casey, Halloran, Reinhard, Salomon, Horner, Hammond, Palmer, E. Populorum, Wurzburg, Papin, Paddock, Ward, Chirhart, Hucheson, Gibbons, McCloskey, Greenebaun, Krieg, Cox, BRI-kins, E. Papin, Keys, Swayze.	.
Plain Sewing and Dress-Making—Misses Ewing, Gordon, Wall, Sullivan, Lancaster. Winston, Creig, English.
General Mending—1st Class—Misses Ewing, Gordon, Kilielea, Hackett, Silverthorne, Cavenor, Ward, Ryan, Rosing, Kirchner, Loeber, Danaher, Dillon, Neu, Bischoff, Wall, Taylor, Zahm, English, Winston, McMahon, Lloyd. 2d Class—Missea Hackley, Mitchell, Reinhard, A. Ewing, Otto, Donnelly, Gal), Wells, Bruser. 3d Class—Misses C. Lancaster, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, O’Connor, Callinan, Keena, Thompson, Cox, McFadden, Hammond, Reynolds, Moxon, A. Dillon, Julius, Baroux; De Lapp.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Kilielea, McGrath, Keenan, Ewing, Maloney, Neteler, Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Cortright Rosing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, Kirchner, Gordon, Semmes, Lloyd, Dillon, Neu, Usselman, Oto, Mitchell, S. Smith, Walsh, Leober, Donnelly, Fitzgerald, De Lapp, Gall, English, Dallas, Bischoff, Bruser, McMahon, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Taylor, Zahm, Campbell, Keys, Murphy, Hackley, Lancaster, Semmes, Dessaint Baroux, Gavan, Hammond, Thompson, Purdy, Horner, Rascte, Halloran, Wright Engel, Wurzburg, Keena, Wall, Swayze, A. Smith, Edelen, Moxon, Reynolds, McCormick, Paddock, Krieg, McCoy, par excellence. Mines Woodin, Hambleton, Buck, A. Ewing, Winston, Cronin, Julius, Wells, Palmer, Callinan, O’Connor, Price, Orr, Regensburg. Greene-baum, Saloman, McFadden, Cleghorn, Leydon, Cox, Brown.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon. C. Campbell, Van Namee, 8. Semmes, M. Fishburne, C. Ryan, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Reutlinger, Chirhart, Ginz, Paquette, Clarke, Hutcheson, Harrison, E. Papin, Considine, P. Ewing, T, Ewing, Knight L Hackett, B. Garrity, M. Fitzgerald, Robinson, M. Baroux, Chaves, Campan, par audience. Misses Feehan, Fox, Butts, Populorum, Lemontey, E.Hackett Casey, Papin. Crummey, McN Garrity, E. Dallas, Watson, Joseph, Moil, G. Taylor, McCloskey, E. Ryan, Carter, Barlow, Legnard, E. Populorum, Zimmerman, Jaeger, Wilkins.	•
Through mistake the name of Catherine Harrison was omitted from the Tablet par audience of last week.
572
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BOYS AND GIRLS
Should ask their parents'to buy for them, every week, the new Catholic picture and story paper—
It is full of Stories, Sketches, and Pictures in which boys and girls take delight. It has notes on Games and Amusements. There is something in every Number which, will please every member of the family.
It can be ordered from any News Dealer. If there is any difficulty in procuring it, send a line to the publisher, P. V. HICKEY, New York.
Subscription, $3 per Year; $1.50, Six Months; $1, Four Months.
Single Copies....................6 Cents. Address
THEILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC AMERICAN,
11 Barclay St., New York, N. Y.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Eailawy, embracing'under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in > Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona. Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country- Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and al! points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W.Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to “W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT,
Gen.	Chicago. "Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Care and Pullman Palace Sleeping Care, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in thejtnest Reclining Chair Ralace Cars ta ths world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Care of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY. CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and ' PEORIA, ST. LODIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VTA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CABS, 75 CENTS.
- For Tickets and Information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
Jambs Charlton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager.
' 210 Dearborn st, near cor, of Adams^-Chicagoi
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
573
£
A
r1
®r
I
Wanted
A QUALIFIED Teacher as Principal of an excellent School of 150 pupils; must know Music, and teach Church Choir. To begin September 1st, 1880. Address
ml-St
Rev. W. T. M. O’ROURKE,
Middletown, OHIO
fl>vA 043 a 33 A*
~ m3 '55 a *n2
•*n
$
9
a/
EDWARD BUYSSE dealer nr
Watches, Clocks,
A-Jsrx>
AU Kinds of Engraving Pone,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
0
M
w
I
A
d
*1
IB
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY. WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE	*
© -
c
g
So
oe
a
I"
£
o
on
a
*5
0
W K
S <a P
9 P.
tn
W » o E 00
o ;z
h* t£ RS S* ®
P-OSM
OH 8
tn
23 .,O
s
SASC
Jtauuna
OiSM
atoniix
K o 5 o ~ C a® “
59
ffi
o a
g s
ao
a *

OS


co fl

QQ
Ph
KI
fl 0 +J
P ® 0

s d
c o
a
K
a z js
60 fl
£
fl ci
fl ci bO
»
fl I ®K
a © ©
o
Onaga



CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST !
Its main line runs from Chicago to CouncU Bluffs, passing through Joliet Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City. Marengo. Brooklyn. Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton. Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport, Independent Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianolaand Winterset; Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through Une from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily . between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars are also run between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Dlinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the - people prefer' separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Can for sleeping purposes, and Palace
Dinina Can for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your "Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line. And transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging Unes for the East and South.
At Englewood, with theL. S. AM. a, andP^ Ft. W. AC. R-Rds.
At Washington heights, with P-, c. A St
At La Salle, with Ill. Cent R.R.
AtPEORIA. with P. P. A J.; P.D.AE.; L B.A W.; UI. Mid.: and T.P. A W. Rds.
At Rock island, with “Milwaukee A Bock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d A Peo. Rds.
, At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C. M. A St P. R. R.
At West Liberty, with the B., C. R. A N.R.R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. R.
At Des Moines, with D.M. A F.D.R. R. '
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R.R.
At Omaha, with B. A Mo. R. R. R. in Neb.) AtCOLUMBUS JUNCTION,WithB.,C. R. AN.ILR.
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR-R.;W., St L. A Pac., andC. B. AQ. R. Rds. _
At Keokuk, with ToL/Peo. A War.; Wab_ St Louis A Pac., and St L, Keo. A N.-W. B. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch.. Topeka A Santa Fe;
■ Atch. A Neb. and Cen. Br- U. P. R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pan, and Kan. Cent R-Rds.____•
At Kansas City, with all Unes for the Wee* and Southwest
H
PVLLMAN PALACE CARS are ran throuabto PEORIA, MOINM. COVNCII, BLUFFS, KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVENWORTH.
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Reek Island Route,” are sold by aQ Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada. _
Por Information not obtainable at your home ticket oMee, address,
JL. KIMBALL,	E. 8T. JOHN,
' Gea’l SupsrinUndeui. •	Gw’lTkt. audPaas’xr Agt,
A
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.

(main buildings
A THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.	-
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The UsrvBBSiTr affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,	LAW,	!
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notbb Damb gives a more complete business training than can be ob- 4.' talned in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE	.J
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.	j
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.	,
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.	s
Catalouobs, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to'the President, -	■
Very Bev. W. COBBY* C. S. C., Notre Dame p. O. Indiana.