Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vic turns; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 23, 1878.
Number 26. .
The Brooklet.
[From Goethe.]
Thou brooklet, silver bright and clear, Thou flowest onward year by year;
Upon thy bank I ponder, ponder;
Whence com’st thou here ? where go’st thou yonder ?
From dark rocks’ bosom springs my course;
I wander over flower and moss;
Upon my mirror softly lie Fair pictures of the pleasant sky.
Thus, like a child, I’m free from care, And driven on, I know not where; Who from the rock hath called me, He will, I think, my leader be.
Astronomical Sketches.
BY BETSCHER B0TTH0LME D’OLLAIRE.
No. I.
Berenice's Hair.
Auris elephantis super tostum (sc. “panem. ”).—Item from a Bill of Bare lately discovered al Pompeii.
First among the constellation-figures concerning whose origin history gives us any account stands Berenice’s Hair, and I cannot say that the accounts furnished us concerning it are at all satisfactory. We can understand that the religious navigators of the Fifteenth Century, perplexed and baffled by the dangers of unknown Southern seas, found consolation in the sight of the sign of salvation pointing the way; we can feel that with the revulsion of sentiment that took place on the restoration of the Stuarts, the heart of Charles might have been exalted to the skies; we know that patriotism and gratitude would be easily allowed to glorify the shield of Sobieski, and that flattery would find a place for the sceptre of Brandenburg; while Science, the presiding genius of astronomical research, in the pride and enthusiasm of her new discoveries, -would transfer her whole laboratory to the heavens, fitting them up with Air-Pumps, Electrical Machines and Chemical Furnaces, in preparation, probably, for her own apotheosis; on the same principle that an Indian’s favorite wives and dogs, together with his bow and arrows, and other implements, are buried with him, so that he may not feel lost in the land he is going to. In a word, the origin of all the more recent constellations is sufficiently intelligible, but in the case of Berenice’s Hair we are required to-suppose that the king and the queen of the most enlightened nation of1
an age inferior in mental activity only to the present,—at a time when astronomy was attracting more general attention even than now,—when the industry and curiosity of the Greeks were bringing to light and spreading abroad the recondite wisdom of the more ancient races,—when the great school of Alexandria, in the flush of its early years, was zealous in the search after truth, and unsparing in exposure of fraud,—at such a period as this we are required to suppose, I say, that the queen of Egypt was consoled for the theft of her hair’ by the firm persuasion that the gods had carried it away and made of it a constellation!
First, it is by no means easy to account for the theft. The object would hardly justify the risk in the eyes of an experienced thief. We may reflect, however, that Berenice having set the example of sacrifice, all the ladies of her court, whose husbands were to accompany Ptolemy on the war-path, might catch the infection, and it might become a court fashion to cut off one’s hair and hang it up in the temple for the safe return of one’s military friends. As nothing spreads so rapidly as a court fashion, the display of capillary attractions in the temple would soon become simply overwhelming. It would become a perfect bore to the priests, who would gradually cease to take proper care of such votive offerings, until some enterprising perruquier or mattrass maker would feel it safe to make a nocturnal raid on the temple, and at one fell swoop carry off the whole supply.
Great, of course, would be the consternation of the priests . when morning dawned and exposed the deficit. Viewing themselves as the intended victims of an infuriated female mob, with the queen at their head, they think of the fate of Pentheus and weep. In the midst of their despair, Conon, the astronomer, who has spent the night on the roof of the temple, which he uses as his observatory, comes down to the things of earth. “What!” says he to the High Priest, “ are you disconcerted by so slight an acci- . dent as this ? Listen to me.” And they converse apart in whispers.
That evening, as Berenice and her train approach the temple for the solemn performance of the evening sacrifice, they are met at the door by the High Priest, his face radiant with enthusiasm. “Let not, most royal lady,” he says, “your serenity be disturbed by what at first sight may appear an irreparable loss. Believe me, the gods have no ordinary reward in store for such conjugal virtue as yours. Enter, and look around you.” The queen and ladies enter as invited, and the first thing that strikes them is the disappearance of their hair—and that strikes them quite a severe blow. Berenice turns with rising indignation to the High Priest, but is met by the same imperturbable mysterious smile. “ Deign, royal lady, to accompany me to a convenient post of observation on the roof of the
■	I
402	THE' NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	•
------------------- -----—.-------------■----------------------
temple, and we will thank the gods together for the public testimony they have vouchsafed to afford to your majesty’s meritorious sacrifice.”
So they all go up on the roof together, their irascible passions subdued by all-powerful feminine curiosity. But Berenice is not quite a fool, and when the High Priest, with gestures indicative of a perfect frenzy of enthusiasm, points out a beautiful nebulous cluster of stars, with the exclamation: “ There, most gracious queen—there are your majesty’s radiant tresses,” she fairly bristles with rage and astonishment at his impudence, and cries: “Man! man!—do you expect me to believe such stuff as that?”
The High Priest, however, is not to be brow-beaten. “ Allow me to ask, most gracious sovereign,” says he, “ have you ever observed that constellation before ? ”
• “ Well, I really can’t say I have. I haven’t had time to pay as much attention to astronomy as I should like to have done. But, Sarah Jane”* adds she, turning to one of her attendants, a learned lady, who was preceptress to the Egyptian princesses, and who taught them the Use of the Globes, and an abridgement of of the Pythagorean system of Philosophy, carefully expurgated for Young Ladies, and Enriched with Copious Notes and Illustrations of the Text. “ Sarah Jane, is there anything about that constellation -in Pythagoras ? ”
Sarah Jane was a little dubious on the subject. She had learned all about the constellations in books, but she had never cared much about going out at night to look at them, as she was rather particular about taking cold. She certainly could not remember having noticed that special group of stars before, and she was certain that there was no name given to it. She didn’t like to be hasty in saying that she had never seen it, as her reputation as a learned lady was at stake: but then, would the high priest be so confident about it if it wasn’t so? On reflection, then, after affecting a minute examination of the neighboring asterisms, she replied:
“Most gracious mistress, let us bow to the voice of religion ! The constellation is undoubtedly new to astronomy.”
Berenice could say nothing more, but she wasn’t [half satisfied. She left the temple without performing her usual devotions, and went back to her palace in moody silence. At the gate she was met by Conon, the court astronomer:
“With permission, royal lady, I am here to announce to you a most wonderful occurrence, such as was never known to have happened in the history of mankind. A new con. stellation has appeared in the heavens! ’’ However stunned at first by this unexpected corroborative evidence from the highest authority of the day, Berenice, used to courtly behavior from childhood, dissembled her feelings, and rapidly recovered her equanimity. “Ah!” she said, “perhaps I know more about it already than you suppose.”
So Ptolemy had to come out and see it, too, and it was voted as a good omen for the success of the expedition,
* Let none of the supercilious among our readers dare to scoff at the apparently anachronistic character of this name. Sarah, the wife of Abraham, was thought a great deal of during her brief sojourn in Egypt, and her name was unquestionably handed down with honor. As for Jane, it is the feminine form of Janus, a very ancient Etruscan deity. Our readers will remember the beautiful choriambic verse: Jane pater, Jane tuens Dive biceps biformis. In fact there is no more absurdity in this than in Dido’s having a sister Ann.
and they had a grand celebration over it, and everything was serene. -
“And after all,” said Berenice to the Queen of Sheba, who dropped in a short time after this to take a cup of tea with her and hear the news—the Queens of Sheba were always of an enquiring turn of mind—“after all, it’s no more than right. I’m not surprised at all at the action of the gods in this matter. Conjugal virtue is so rare in these degenerate days that the gods ought to give it some mark of divine approbation.”
“ The impudence and pretension of that woman are past '' belief,” said the Queen of Sheba on her return home, shutting her parasol with a snap. “ Here have I been married to you, Mustasem Ibn Alkali, for fifty years, and I should like to know what prospect there is of my hair being made a constellation of! Constellation indeed! I say constellation to you! I don’t believe it’s anything but the wisp at
the end of the Lion’s tail.’’ *
“Certainly not, my dear,” said Mustasem Ibn Alkali, the incumbent, at that time, of the Throne of Sheba. He was sitting in a mild but dignified attitude, on an ottoman in the Blue Room, smoking his interminable pipe.
“ And I do declare to gracious, you nasty thing, if you hain’t been a spitting all over the new carpet. That’s my reward for my conjugal virtue, is it ? Here, slave, bring hither that alabaster vase—anything at all to save the carpet!”
But here we must pause. Our sketch is drifting towards that inevitable bourne from which no story-teller ever returns. But you can always go behind the returns, it J seems, and reach the bourne from another point of view.
Oh! Spirit of the Irrepressible Spittoon! no longer haunt my dreams—no longer lie in wait for the end of my tales— no longer loom up before my wearied imagination. Begone! Avaunt! To the Bottomless Spit.
* That this remark of the Queen of Sheba was not altogether dictated by envy, may be seen on reference to Prof. Proctor’s new work on the Myths and Marvels of Astronomy, in the Chapter on the Constellation Figures.	.
[Translated from the Luxemburger Gazette.]
A Catholic School System.
Let us confess it openly, however good, however excellent our several Catholic parish schools and our intermediate institutions may be, there is one thing wanting in them, they have no system. .We may think and say about the Public Schools whatever we wish, system they have, that any one cannot deny. It is true, system does not necessarily imply good instruction and good schools, but it helps both very much; it secures unity in the methods used in the different branches of learning, it'makes a uniform idea pervade the whole, and enables the one to profit by the experiences of the other.
Concerning a Catholic school system for the United States we form an idea somewhat like the following: Let there be in every city of any importance, and in every county, a Catholic School Board,, composed of as many members as may be required. The members to be chosen are to be approved by the Bishop, and in the Board there shall be represented priests and capable laymen. The pastor of each congregation is, ex officio, a member of this organization. They will visit from time to time the schools under
►
,	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	403
their jurisdiction, examine the classes, and give at the end '	of the year an account of the progress, management, debts,
etc., of the school. It is desired that these accounts be printed, in order that the workings of the Catholic schools be made known also to those of a different belief.
As for the county and the city, so there should be also I	a School Board organized for every diocese, of which the
Bishop or his representative would be president ex officio. This Diocesan School Board also should, possibly, be com-।	. posed of priests and laymen, and their number be naturally
determined by what circumstances may require. They should take charge of the general direction of primary education and intermediate schools, visit and examine institutions for middle education, such as colleges and academies, and without their permission no such institution should be started. In this way the forces would not be too much scattered, the excessive zeal of some enthusiastic individuals would be checked, and institutions would be founded only in those places in which they can best be reached and where they would be likely to effect most good. Then there would be order in the affairs of middle education, now so miserably divided. The institutions would be of equal strength, not overtaxed, and capable of rendering greater service. Also of the schools for specialties should the Diocesan School Board have charge and publish the accounts.
Each year every diocesan organization could delegate one of its members to assist at a Convention of the presidents of all the middle institutions of. the United States, • and thus also create a union which till the present time has not existed.
The crown of the'-whole system would be a Catholic University, an institution deserving the name of university, and for which Louvain might serve as a model. Such a University would be the heart of the whole system. From it the sap would penetrate the inmost marrow of the people. The Council (Board of Trustees? or officers?) of the University, with the Right Rev. Bishops, would form the highest school organization for the Catholics of the United States. At first one university would be sufficient, but its services should be of such a kind that it would stand on the highest pinnacle of all kinds of learning. Better one • good, great institution than a dozen small ones that scatter the teaching forces amongst us. Academies, however, such as we possess now in dur American “ Universities ” should not be excluded from the plan. England has made the step, France is at the point of doing so; cannot we do the same? If our Bishops take the affair in hand, we will * in a few years oppose to the public school system, notwithstanding all its expenses, an educational system which will prove successful, rich in good results, cheap, and which will break opposition to the Catholic schools on the part of the followers of a faith different from ours; and which will show that education may be had without drawing the last drop of blood from the people. Should any one bring up an objection regarding money-matters ? That is the least difficulty. For Catholic purposes, Catholics always have money.
—Education without religion only sharpens the intellect and fits men to be adroit rogues and swindlers.—0. A. Brownson.
—Uncertainty and expectation are prods of life. Security is an insipid thing; and the overtaking and possessing of a wish discovers the folly of the chase—Congreve.
The Ante-Columbian Discoverers of Am oring.
The belief that Christopher Columbus was the first European to discover America is so general that multitudes would be surprised that a person could be so hardy as to attempt controverting what we have been taught as a truth from our school-days, and yet so stubborn are the facts adduced in support of the voyage of St. Brendan in the Gth century—not, as in modern times, with a view to accumulate wealth, but with the true Christain missionary spirit, to preach the Gospel to heathen nations, and gather them into the fold of Christ—that we think it worth while to call attention to it.-
St. Patrick landed as a missionary in Ireland in 432. When in that part of Ireland now known as the County Kerry he prophesied the birth of a boy who would be the founder of a great monastery at the place afterwards known as Clonfert, in the County of Galway, the walls of which are still standing. St. Brendan had a cousin named Barinthus, a seafaring man who resided on the western coast of Ireland, from whom he had heard wonderful accounts of a voyage he had made to the happy islands in the western seas, off where the sun seems to set, where it is perpetual spring, and where it is not required that the inhabitants should labor to obtain food.
It is an erroneous idea to suppose that the Irish at that time had no ships capable of making such a voyage. It was at the time that Solomon was building his Temple, 1000 years before Christ, that the Phoenicians left the coast of Tyre to sail the whole length of the Mediterranean Sea, through the Pillars of Hercules and across the present Bay of Biscay, a voyage as long as from !the coast of Ireland to that of America, while we see persons crossing the ocean in our own days in small boats la or 20 feet long. The naval fleets of former days seem to be undervalued, for King Dathy brought a large fleet from Ireland to France, and an army amongst which there was a large body of cavalry, and after that king’s death' by lightning near the Alps, his generals led them home, about the year 388. This fact alone proves that the ancient Irish had ships capable of carrying cavalry.
St. Brendan travelled along the western shore of Ireland, seeking every possible information from the descendants of the ancient Tuatha-Danaan inhabitants of the country. Having selected his crew, and made all his arrangements, he set sail from a well-sheltered harbor in his own country which bears his name to this day. After a long and rough voyage, his little bark being well provisioned, he came to summer seas, his course being in a southwesterly direction, where he was carried along upon his voyage without sails or oars for many days. This, it is reasonable to presume, was the Gulf Stream, which brought them on shore somewhere about the 38th or 37th degree of north latitude. Here having landed and rested awhile, he marched inland for fifteen days steadily, when they arrived at a great river flowing inland from the sea, from east to • west, a thing never before heard of, and showing a country as large as Europe and Asia both put together. This great river is believed to have been the Ohio, as that direction corresponds with the general course of that river. As there seemed to be no limit to this land of wonders, the Saint decided not to proceed any further west at this time, but to leave more wonderful discoveries and the Christianizing of the savage inhabitants to others who would follow. It is easy to imagine numerous reasons
i
404
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
why Brendan should return to the seaside,—fatigue, want of provisions, discontent among his followers, etc., etc. The immensity of the discovery they had made was enough to oppress their very hearts with terror, added to which was the longing which must have excited them to carry home the news to their own nation.
This voyage of St. Brendan’s took place according to Colgan, the great Irish antiquary, in the year 540; other authorities set it down as being a few years earlier. It is said that the legends and accounts of this voyage, combined with the discoveries by another Irish Saint, Virgilius, Bishop of Salzburg in Bavaria, of the sphericity of the earth, first suggested to the active mind of Columbus the idea of the existence of a western continent, and that the subject was fully confirmed in his mind on hearing that several dead bodies, of a color and a race different from any other ever discovered in Europe, Asia or Africa, were driven upon the coast of the Cape de Verdes.
It is a fact not generally known that the first man of Columbus’s expedition to set foot on American soil was an Irishman. This is recorded by an Italian priest, John Baptist Tornitori, in a publication of the 17th century, a copy of which is in the library of the University of St. Louis. In this work it is related that when Columbus neared the land, the water not being deep enough to admit the ship any further, the small boats were launched to carry the Admiral on shore. Among the crew was one Patricias Maguirus (if he were in Ireland to-day he would be called Paddy Maguire) who jumped out of the boat, reached the jand and waded on shore, on the 4th of October, 1492, thus lightening the boat, and helping to carry the Admiral further up on the beach. The roster of the ship’s crew that sailed from Spain is, all complete, in the archives of Madrid, from which the above has been taken, not because he, Patrick Maguire, was the only Irishman in the expedition, for there were several, but on account of the remarkable action which enabled him to be the first man to set his foot on the newly-discovered soil of America.
There should be no surprise expressed at meeting Irish names in the list of mariners in the Spanish fleet, when the qualification for an enrollment in that expedition are considered. Nowhere on earth could such a school for seamen be found as on the western coast of Ireland, between which and Spain, from the days of Scotia, a considerable traffic was carried on. Scotia was the daughter of King Solomon, and wife of Milesius, son of Hiram, King of Tyre, who sent his artificers to build the Temple for King Solomon, at which time the Princess left her father’s halls to follow, beyond the seas, in ships built by her husband’s subjects, the fortunes of her lord, and sought a home among the rich green plains of Ireland. It is over 2800 years since the Princess Scotia (from whom the country was called Scotia and the inhabitants Scots), with her three sons and their troops, landed in Ireland, and conquered the Tuatha-Danaans. From that period the intercourse between Erin and Spain began, the roadway lying over the fearfully rolling waves of the Bay of Biscay; and if, 2000 years ago, with all their recollections of one thousand years of adventure, Brendan and his companions should have braved the fierce storms of the Atlantic in their anxiety to gather sheep into the fold of Christ, it would not be very surprising.
Traces of ante-Columbian voyages to America are continually cropping up, and it is not at all improbable that the Phcenicians in the voyages from what is pow known as the
Straits of Gibraltar to Cape Finisterre in Spain, and from that to Cape Clear in Ireland, must have been occasionally driven out of their course and made discoveries among the Azores, Madeira, the Canary and Cape de Verde islands. Humboldt states positively that those islands were known to the Phoenicians and Etruscans, and there is a map in the Library of St. Mark’s at Venice, made in the year 1346, some 150 years before the voyage of Columbus, in which the Antilles or West Indies are laid down with wonderful correctness.	-
The Scandinavians have established strong claims to the discovery of America five centuries before Columbus set out on his adventurous voyage, and these claims are well supported by the remarkable works of Rafn, the Danish historian. The “Norse Sagas” as translated and published by him, claim the discovery of the northern part of the continent, Greenland and Labrador, by the Scandinavians ; but they also give the honor of the first discovery
Irishmen at a much earlier period, and in their works they call the new country “Ireland it Hilda,” or “Great Ireland.” They also state that when some of the Norsemen went down to a region called “ Huitra-Mannaland,” (probably the Carolinas and Georgia) “ they found here,” says Rafn, “ a white people different from the Esquimaux of the north, having long robes or cloaks and frequently bearing crosses in a sort of religious processions, and their speech was the Irish or Celtic dialect.”
Many very ancient manuscripts are to be found in the Icelandic chronicles,!or “ Shalholt-Saga,” bearing date 1117, carefully delineating several bays and shores of America; they also mention the death of an Icelandic woman, named Suasa, who had accompanied an expedition, and so minutely describe the topograhy of the place where she was buried that Sir Thomas Murray conjectured that the spot should be in the immediate vicinity of the great falls on the Potomac River above Washington. .
A few years since a celebrated English antiquary, Mr. Thomas C. Raffinson, and M. Louis Lequereux, the distinguished geologist, with two American gentlemen, proceeded to the localities mentioned in the “ Shalholt-Saga ” and made close search for any traces to ascertain the exact place of Suasa’s burial. After a long search they discovered an inscription in the Runic language, cut deep in a rock called the “Arrow Head.” It read as follows:
Here lies Staby (or Susa), The Fair-Haired, A Person from the East of Iceland, The widow of Kjocdr, And sister of Thorgor, Children of the samb father, Twenty-five years of age.
May God make glad her soul.
1051.
Near it they exhumed some human teeth and bones, three bronze trinkets, and some other relics. I mention these to show that the discovery of America was centuries anterior to the time of Columbus, and that everything is in favor of the correctness of St. Brendan’s statement. He lived many years after his return from his wonderful voyage, and took pleasure in relating his adventures to his scholars. He founded the celebrated Abbey of Clonfert, in the County of Galway, in which it is related that three thousand students at one time, from various parts of Europe, received their education. St. Brendan died about the year 577, and was buried in hm own monastery of Clonfert.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	405
To show how greatly Columbus was indebted to Irishmen for the information he possessed on the true geography of the earth, I should mention that there are no less than»eleven Latin manuscripts in the Bibliotheque Imperial, at Paris, the dates of which vary from the eleventh to the fourteenth century, in proof of this discovery, while several more in French, Dutch, German, Italian, and Portuguese are to be found on the continent. But the work published by Professor Rafn at Copenhagen in 1837 is conclusive on the subject. The Shetland and Faro Isles form as it were stepping-stones to Iceland, which is six hundred miles from the coast of Norway, and only one hundred and forty from Greenland. Iceland is part of America.
The subject of the manner in which America first became inhabited is one of absorbing interest. We know that in 1833 a Japanese junk was driven on shore in California, but what about the Patagonians, or the Dingos of Australia? and then the West India Islands were thickly inhabited in the time of Columbus, the Aztecs had reached a high degree of civilization, and a former race seemed to have passed away, namely the mound-builders.
One of the most distinguished of the Irish missionaries who preached the Gospel in Germany, about the middle of the eighth century, along with St. Boniface, was the learned Feargal O’Farrel, known in history as Virgilius, Bishop of Salzburg. He arrived in France in the year 743, and was honored with the friendship of Pepin, son of Charles Martel, who was afterwards elevated to the regal dignity, being the first king of France. Pepin retained Virgilius in his palace with himself for two years, and then recommended him to Otilo, Duke of Bavaria. St. Boniface, Archbishop of Metz, was Virgilius’s ecclesiastical superior, and as they differed on some points of discipline Boniface had information thereof conveyed to Pope Zachary. The chief accusation was that he, Virgilius, asserted the sphericity of the earth, the motion of the earth round the sun, and that there existed antipodes or people living under the earth with their feet pointing to ours. The Pope was misinformed, the statement being that he taught that there was another world under our earth, and a different race of men inhabiting it. Pope Zachary wrote to him in 748, and his letter is still in existence, demanding an explanation, which he received to his full satisfaction.
It is interesting to know that an Irish monk should be the first to entertain a true notion of the existence of antipodes, of the sphericity of the earth, and of the motion of the planets, and of the earth round the sun. These are the principles afterwards taught by Copernicus, another Catholic priest, about 1450, for which he was prosecuted by the philosophers of his day, as was Galileo by the scientists and philosophers of the school of Aristotle and Ptolemy; but the Popes in each of these three cases proved themselves the firm friends of learning and advanced ideas.
Here it will be seen that it was from the travels of St. Brendan in the"6th century, and from the philosophy of St. Virgilius as he taught it in the Sth century, that Christopher Columbus, with the assistance of the strong arms of Patricius Maguirus, was enabled to land on the shores of San Salvador, on the 4th of October, A. D. 1492.
B.P.
—Religion is not a thing apart from education, but it is interwoven with its whole system. It is a principle which regulates the whole mind and happiness of the people.— Lord Derby.
[Translated from the “ Katholische Wochenblatt.”]
Our Parish Schools Again.
Under this heading the Notre Dame Scholastic gives in its number of the 19th of January an article in which it mentions with joyful satisfaction the concurrence and approbation which the article in question has met with from many quarters. The Scholastic, which as a paper of that profession has undoubtedly a claim to authority in this question, expresses the hope that all those who have at heart the interest of the Church in our country, and the advancement of education—not only for the present, but also for the future,—will be convinced that these important points will find a powerful help by the carrying out of the plans of organization proposed. The Scholastic herefore repeats again the points of the plan, for the benefit of those who might not have noticed the article in question in the number of the 22d of December of last year.
For these particulars we refer our readers to No. 1 of the current year of the Katholische Wochenblatt. That it is to the purpose, nay even necessary, that our Catholic schools should be united in one organic whole, can be denied by no one, especially since we are not unaware of the danger that the organization of our schools may sooner or later be attacked by our opponents.
Although the execution of the plan seems to meet with many difficulties, we believe that these may be easily overcome by devotedness and a firm will for the promotion of good. The first question suggested by the plan is: To whom belongs the right to bring it into execution ? It is easily answered: Unmistakably to the pastors of the Church, who have received from her Divine Founder the mission to “ teach all nations.” The second question then is the pitiable fund question. Now, with regard to this we have a sincere confidence in the well-known liberality of the Catholic parishes. Should the proposed Diocesan School Boards be brought into successful operation for some years, the benefits derived therefrom-would be so palpably felt and universally acknowledged that the funds for the continuation of their labors would be given by all the parishes with the greatest liberality, not to mention extraordinary gifts and donations.
Scientific Notes. ’
—Milne-Edwards, the great opponent of the Evolution theory, has been elected President of the French Scientific Association.
—A note is made in Hardwicks's Science Gossip of the discovery of a chimney-swallow brooding in the month of December. The bird was watched while building her nest, in a cart-shed, and the nest, with one egg, was taken while the mother was sitting.
—Prof. Westwood describes at a recent meeting of the Entomological Society of London, a remarkable Mantis (Gongylus gonegyloides) which mimics a flower,—the deception being supposed to attract the insects upon which the Mantis feeds, to their destruction.
—The cause of the peculiar violet-color presented last summer by the oysters of the celebrated Arcachon beds is found to have been due to the spores of a sea-weed (Rhy-tiphlmta tinctoria). The oysters had assimilated the coloring matter of the spores to such an extent that their own substance was tinted by it.
—3,000 stars (only) are visible to the naked eye. Countless millions are revealed by the telescope, some so remote that their light, travelling at the rate of 20,000 miles a
406
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
second, cannot arrive at our planet in less than 14,000 years. Others’ light would require two millions of years for its transit from their distant orbs to our own.
—Loewenhock has computed that 10,000 threads of the full-grown spider are no larger than a single hair of the beard. He calculates, further, that when young spiders first begin to spin, 400 of them are not larger than one of full growth—making it appear that 4,000,000 of a young spider’s threads are not as large as the single hair of a man’s beard.
—One of the most important results obtained by Prof. E. S. Morse from his study of Lingula in Japan, during the past summer, is the discovery of auditory capsules in the class of Brachiopass. He determined these organs in a species.of Lingula, and their position and general appearance recall the auditory capsules as figured by Clapa-rede in certain tubiculous Annelids.
—Prof. Owen has described at length, in the-A?mals and Magazine of Natural History, the Solitaire (Pezoplaps solitaria),—an extinct bird whose remains were brought from the Island of Rodriguez by the Transit-of-Venus Expedition. The Solitaire was a ground-dove, measuring three feet in length, and with wings gradually aborted until it could no longer fly. The favorable conditions of its life on an uninhabited island, amid abundant food, enabled it to attain its great size.
—Plants sleep at night, as is well known, but their sleeping hours are a matter of habit, and can easily be disturbed. A French chemist recently exposed a sensitive plant to a bright light at night and placed it in a dark room during the day. The plant, at first, appeared much puzzled. It opened and closed its leaves irregularly, in spite of the artificial sun beaming upon it at night, and, in the day-time, it sometimes awoke. It finally submitted to the change, unfolding itself regularly at night and closing in the morning.
—A California paper relates that the leaves of the castoroil plant have proved to be delightfully destructive of the grasshopper. A few leaves were placed under some trees which were being ravaged by the insects, and the result was soon evident in the death of great numbers. Under one tree 498 of the slain were counted, while twenty more were in a dying condition. On nibbling at the leaves, the poisoned grasshoppers became rapidly stupefied, and when attempting to fly, tumbled back on their heads and speedily gave up the ghost.
—The French Society of Colonial Explorers lately held its first meeting in Paris. Ferdinand de Lesseps, Michel Chevalier and Admiral La Romiere de Noury Quatrefages are among the members. The object is to explore all regions of the globe which have not yet been visited, with the exception of Africa, which has been taken in hand by the Belgian association, of which the King of the Belgians is at the head. Among the exploring parties will be civil engineers, geologists, chemists and others competent to give a full estimate of the resources of the countries visited. One party is already at work in Sumatra, with headquarters in Deli.
—In the hot-house at Lyon House, the mansion of the Duke of Northumberland, near Twickenham, a remarkable growth of a bamboo-plant has been witnessed during the last summer. The London Gardener's Ghronide states that the stem of the new stalk is as big around as a good-sized scaffold-pole, and about seventy feet in height. “This superb shoot has developed a growth of over sixty feet in three months, aud, having reached the top of the glass dome, has now been forced to bend its point downwards, as though, like Wolsey, it had reached the highest point of its career long ere its course was done. This wonderful stem is at least twice the size of any other shoot from the same plant, and deserves to rank amongst the marvels of vegetation in our exceedingly congenial and eccentric clime.”
—As early as the XVIth century the Knights of St. John were in possession of a vessel protected by lead plates. Bosio, the historiographer of the order, gives the following details concerning it. The ship, called the Santa Anna, was built in 1530 at Nizza, and belonged to the squadron sent by Charles V (1520-1536) against Tunis. This expedition sailed under the command of the cele
brated Andrea Doria, and effected the conquest of Tunis. This metal-clad vessel contributed not a little to the happy issue of the campaign. It had quite a number of guns, a crew of 300 men, and was magnificently furnished. Thus, in the lower hold was a chapel, a parlor, and a bakery. Of course its most remarkable feature was its coating of lead, fastened with metal bolts, which rendered this ship, that often was in the heat of the fight, impregnable against the balls of the foe. A likeness of this remarkable vessel is still to be seen in the fresco paintings of the palace formerly belonging to the Knights of St. John at Rome.
—A writer sevli to Forest and Stream, from Pottsville, Pa., the following curious incident in the history of the wl: A young man, the son of a respectable farmer, resid-ng within a few miles of this place, on his way home across the fields, was violently seized on the back of the neck by an owl, which had suddenly alighted on his back, and it was with some difficulty that the winged assailant was kept at bay. A few days afterwards, the young man passed over the same route, when he was again attacked by the same or another owl, which flew in his face, and severely bit him. In each case, blood was drawn by the beak of the aggressor. The neighbors becoming alarmed, an investigation was made, and in a large, lonely, aud well-decayed oak, was discovered a hole well up near its forks. As the tree was being felled, several owls flew out and escaped. The examination resulted in finding the skeletons of various sizes of birds, mice, bats, frogs, moles, etc., while an immense stock of large and small insects yet remained for a winter (?) supply.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mr. Heniy M. Stanley’s account of his late explorations in Africa will be published in England by Messrs. Sampson, Low & Co.
—English authors produced and had printed last year 3,049 books. There were also 2,046 new editions, making the total book production of England 5,095, against 4,888 the preceding year.
—During the year 1877 books and pictures to the value of §254,935.07 were exported from the consular district of Leipzig to North America, with music to the value of §8,983 23, the total amount being less by §17,800.52 than the year previous.
—The collection of Turner drawings, about 100 in number, in the possession of Mr. Ruskin, are to be put on exhibition at the Grosvenor Gallery, London. Mr. Ruskin is preparing an explanatory pamphlet for the use of visitors at the exhibition.
—Japan has an active archte logical society, bearing the title of Kobutzu-Kai (Society of Old Things). Its members, numbering 200, are scattered throughout the land, but meet once a month in Yeddo. They consist chiefly of wealthy Japanese gentlemen, learned men, and priests.
—The new modelling-school for women, established under the auspices of the Woman’s Education Association at Boston, opens with nine pupils. The system of teaching adopted by the instructor, Mr. Evans, begins with the manufacture of molds, and the mending of those when broken. The next step is to model from memory, and then to do casting. Carving is also taught in the school; and the arrangement for these classes of study is said to be very complete.
—A feature of the closing night of the “ Old South” fair in Boston was the sale at auction of an album, containing some rare poems in autograph, by distinguished American writers. In the list of literary treasures were Bryant’s “ Thanatopsis,” Longfellow’s “Excelsior,” Whittier’s “ New England,” Holmes’ “The Voiceless,” Stedman’s “The Doorstep,” and the favorite poems of Howells, Aldrich, Hay, Trowbridge, and others. The album was purchased by a young literary gentleman of Boston.
—A glimpse of the manuscripts of the late Charles Dickens, which now form part of the “ Foster Collection” in the South Kensington Museum, conjures up a vision of numerous characters in his popular novels. On looking attentively at the manuscripts, we are at once struck by
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
407
|	the number of alterations and interlineations with which
Ithe pages abound; and our first sentiment is one of surprise that the books which appear so wonderfully natural and fluent when we read them, should evidently have been the result of much anxious thought, care and elaboration.
—One of the greatest of the modern Russian poets, J	Nikolai Aleksyevich Nekrasof, died Jan. 8, at the age of
i	56. During youth he suffered from extreme poverty, and
this painful experience tinged his verse with melancholy. •	The themes which he chiefly sang were sorrowful, describ-
ing the sad lot of the peasant, the orphan, the widow, and (	the oppressed. He was one of the most realistic of writers,
j	possessing “ a truly wonderful power of bringing a scene in
a few lines before the eyes of his readers, and of enlisting I	their sympathies on the side of the characters to whom he
gave vigorous life.”
—Messrs. Macmillan & Co. will soon issue “ The Life of George Combe,” the eminent phrenologist and philosopher. The work is written bjr Mr. Charles Gibbon, and contains a fragment of an autobiography. Mr. Combe was a voluminous author, and his essay on “The Constitution of Man” has been translated into several languages, and above 100,000 copies have been sold in England alone. Mr. Combe was an early advocate of compulsory and non-secta-rian education, and his views commanded the attention and respect of the best informed of his countrymen. He was consulted by the Prince Consort and Baron Stockman regarding the education of the Prince of Wales, and in 1844 presented an interesting report on the subject. He was born in 1788, was married to Cecilia, the daughter of Sarah Siddons, in 1833, and died in 1858.
—Philip Veit, one of the German masters ranking with Cornelius, Overbeck, and Schadow, died on the 18th of December, aged 83. His mother was the daughter of the Jewish philosopher Mendelssohn, and, after the death of her first husband, was married to Frederick Von Schlegel, the illustrious critic and author. Madame Von Schlegel *	was a woman of great intellectual ability, known to the
literary world as the translator, in the German language, of Madame de Stael’s “ Corinne.” Frederick Von Schlegel was the first instructor of his step-son, young Veit, who afterwards studied painting at Dresden, and then at Rome. He was an active adherent of the new German school of art, which sought to build upon the old foundation of Christian faith. All his important works are either religious or symbolical in their character.
—The London Athenaeum says: “Mr. Jon Johnson, the secretary of the governor of Iceland, is now industriously occupied in the study of trials by juries in England, and in the pursuit of notices bearing on the early history of this subject. Iceland seems to be waking up to the memory of her former self. In her laws and literature are found the earliest and at the same time the fullest records of ‘ trial by jury.’ Certain antiquaries hold it to be an institution brought into England by the Danes, which in itself is very likely, indeed extremely so, although it does not prove its prior non-existence among the Anglo-Saxons, kith and kin of the Danes themselves. After the union with Norway, in the latter half of the thirteenth century, trial by jury fell into desuetude in Iceland. Now that the Danes •	are, after laborious inquiries, on the point of adopting the
English mode of procedure with regard to the jury, Ice-
I	land wants to inquire for herself, too, on this point.”
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received the February number of the Catholic Record, which is up to the standard of excellence aimed at by this popular Catholic monthly. The publishers, Messrs. Hardy & Mahony, of Philadelphia, are among the most enterprising in the United States. Besides the Record, they are proprietors of the Catholic Standard, an ably-edited weekly, and the American Catholic Quarterly Review, a periodical which has taken a high rank in Catholic literature. The Record is a magazine especially fitted for the family, and we are confident that its circulation must be large. The contents of the February number are: I, Is Hell a Myth? Recent Efforts to Upset a Universally Accepted Truth; II, An Answered Prayer; HI, Qua Cursum
Ventus; IV, John De Brebeuf, S. J., the Apostle of the Hurons; V, Nepenthe; VI, St. Valentine’s Day; VH, Diego Columbus and his Descendants; VIII, Hans Hem-ling’s Triptych; IX, The Village Hostages,—Au Episode of the Franco-Prussian War; X, Nazareth,—A Visit to the Home of our Lord; XI, Now; XII, The French System of Relieving the Poor; XIII, So Near and yet so Far; XIV, Editorial Notes; XV, New Publications.
—The power of duly appreciating little things belongs to a great mind; a narrow-minded man has it not, for to him they are great things.—Whately.
—A statesman, we are told, should follow public opinion. Doubtless as a coachman follows his horses—having a firm hold on the reins and guiding them.—Hare.
—During the reign of James II several Catholics were appointed to Fellowships at Oxford, though such appointments were at that time undoubtedly illegal, but within the last ten years there have been at least two instances of Catholic Fellows at Oxford. The Rev. W. C. Robinson, Vice-Rector of the Catholic University College, Kensington, is at the present moment not only honorary, but actual Fellow of New College, and the Rev. R. F. Clarke, now a Jesuit, was elected to an honorary Fellowship at Trinity, when he was ejected from the post of Fellow and Tutor of St. John’s, by reason of his conversion.
—A Viper that had just closed an engagement with a gentleman who had the delirium tremens entered a learned blacksmith’s shop looking for something to eat, being a little disgusted with the drinking business. He found a file, and attempted to devour it as a man sometimes will a file of old newspapers. But while the way was open for him to flee into the wilderness of Hepsidam, he made no progress in gnawing a file. “ What’s the matter with you ? ” said the Fife; “do you expect to gnaw me?” “Gnaw,” replied the Viper, spitefully as he spat out several of his front teeth which he had broken off. Moral—This fable admonishes you not to attempt to bite off more than you can chew.
—The story of Spain has always had a strange but real fascination even for the races which have been most frequently and most fiercely brought into collision with Spanish policy and Spanish interests. It was long ago cleverly said by Walter Savage Landor that Spain was a corner of Africa left wedged in the flank of Europe; but, though the saying has truth in it, it is not wholly true, nor does it wholly .explain the spell of the Spanish annals and of Spanish letters. With the glowing magnificences and the saturnine mysteries which it owes to the Moor, Spain has combined a virility of temper, a practical energy and a curious common sense which make her a puzzle as well as a poem and a picture. Only a very ignorant person can underrate the capacity of a people who dominated the Old World and the New through a period longer than that of our own existence as (a nation, yet whose numbers during all that splendid era of their history never equalled those of the island realm of Britain. For the whole 'of the current century Spain, which began the century under the runious pressure of a successful foreign invasion, has been wasted alternately by atrocious misgovernment and by exhausting civil war. She has lagged in the rear of all the rest of Europe in regard to her fiscal policy. She has worried her finest colony into a destructive and apparently aimless insurrection. She has been menaced with absolute disintegration as a body politic. Yet in spite of all these things she has increased steadily in population and in wealth. One of the most astonishing revelations of the Vienna Exposition of 1873 was the progress made by the Peninsula in agriculture, and the juries were compelled fo award to her the first rank in this most important department of national industry. What Catalonia has threatened in the way of flagrant communism everybody knows, but everybody does not know so well what Catalonia has done and is daily doing in the way of skilful and successful manufactures. The mercantile navy of Spain has made advances greater during the last decade than our own, and though that is not very high praise, perhaps, in itself, it may at least startle Americans into asking themselves what the secret can be of this wonderful vitality in a race which we are apt to judge severely because we judge it superficially.
408
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

JNotre Dame, IPelxriiaTy S3, 1S7S.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 I*ex* Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
How to Advance Higher Education.
Every once in a while the question of establishing in the United States a grand Catholic University, modelled after those of Europe, is taken up by some periodical, urged upon the Catholic public, and then left to die away until some other paper revives it, only to have it again go through the same process. We ourselves, a year or so ago, when Rt. Rev. Bishop Becker was writing up the subject in the American GatJialic Quarterly Review, published an article or two on the matter, taking strong ground in favor of the project. Since then, however, we have modified our views materially. We still believe in establishing the University, but not just yet, for we think.the country is hardly prepared for it. The fact is that in the United States there are at present very few, if any, Catholic colleges which could be maintained were they to receive classical students only. In order to exist, they must take students following a mixed, a preparatory or a commercial course. How then could we expect the University to succeed as things now are ? The proper way is to cheapen the cost of our elementary education, so that the youth of the country may be led to seek the benefits of university'training. When this is done, then the University may be founded with a fair prospect of success.
Let us examine a little the cost of a young Catholic’s education. In the first place there are many parishes in this country in which there are no Catholic schools, and some in which the schools are only for those in the primary or intermediate course. For children in these parishes to receive their elementary training, it is necessary for them to attend some boarding-school, and this fact accounts for the establishment of minim or primary departments in connection with some of our colleges. If it is intended by the parents of these pupils that they shall follow a full course of studies, the cost of the education of
each child will be great, too great indeed for many parents. . In the first place, the father or guardian will be obliged to pay no small amount for the two or three years of primary instruction, then come the bills for several years in the intermediate and the preparatory courses, and, afterwards, to crown all, four years more in the collegiate. It can easily be seen, then, that the cost of educating a student is to the parent no small item from a money point of view. This cost should be lessened. How can it be done? It can only be done by establishing first-class parish schools in every parish, and academies in those cities where there are many parishes or one large parish, so that the pupil may with little or no cost prepare himself to enter what is known as the freshman year in college. The cost of the four last years will be large to the parents as {compared with the first years of their son’s education, but very small , when compared with the cost as matters now stand. At the same time, colleges will be benefitted by it, for then the increase in the number of students entering the classical and. scientific courses will each succeeding year be greater, while at the same time in the other, that is the commercial and preparatory courses, there will always be many people of wealth who prefer sending their children to some institution outside the dangers of life in a large city rather then let them remain within the influence of a power which their wealth makes the more dangerous.. Hence the establishment of good' parochial schools and academies throughout the country will do good not only for the parish or city in which they are located, but for the .cause of higher education in general, by enabling the man of ordinary means not only to‘give a good common school education to his son but also a collegeate; liberal education will thus receive an impulse that will, in the end, aid materially in the establishment of a grand Catholic University.
Hence everyone who is interested in the cause of higher education among Catholics should first of all interest himself in the bettering of our parochial schools, and do all in his power to bring them to a higher standard. It is in order to let each and every one know the wants of our schools, the standing of our teachers, and the progress made from year to year, and thus rouse our people to the importance of these schools and their obligation to support them, that we have urged the establishment of diocesan school-boards: for we believe that through them only can we hope to raise the schools to that degree of excellence demanded in our day. By means of the schoolboard we believe in the course of time a school-fund can be established, in each diocese sufficient to support the parish schools, and even an academy, in every city, whereby education may become so much cheaper as not only to place it within the reach of the poorest, but will also allow those possessing a little means to follow the higher courses now denied them. When this shall have been accomplished then will the diocesan school-boards be instrumental in the establishment even of a great uni-versity, by opening up the way for it.
—The end of education is to fit man to perform justly, skilfully and magnanimously all the offices, both public and private, of peace and war.—Milton.
—We have no evidence that education as commonly understood is a preventive of crime. Did much knowledge and piercing intelligence suffice to make men good, then Bacon should have been honest, and Napoleon should have been just—Spencer.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. •	409
Personal.
—John F. Fleming, of ’66 resides at Burlington, Iowa.
—William Waldo, of’70, is in business at Independence, Mo.
—Cassius M. Proctor, of ’75, is City Engineer of Elkhart, Ind.
—James Dickinson, of ’70, is in business at Fremont, Ohio.
—Thomas Carroll (Commercial, of ’76,) resides at Pontiac, Ill.
—John C. K. Heine, of ’71, is practicing law st Reading, Pa.
—Patrick J. O’Meara (Commercial, of ’74,) is living at Delmar, Iowa.
—Wm. Morris (Commercial, of ’76,) is with his father at Jackson, Mississippi.
—Florian Devoto, of ’76, is teaching school near Salt Lake City, Utah Ter.
—Rev. John Shea takes charge for a short while at St. Vincent’s, near Fort Wayne, Ind.
—David S. McKernan, of 60, is living at San Antonia, Texas. He is in the real estate business.
—Henry Dehner, of ’76, resides at Cascade, Iowa. We have not been informed as to his business.
—Joseph F. Campbell (Commercial, of ’76,) is, we are informed, in one of the departments at Washington, D. C.
—Rev. Paul. E. Gillen, of Holy Cross, Iowa, spent a day or two with us last week. Father Paul is in the best of health.’
—Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., of ’49, has written a number of letters on the School Question for one of the Stratford (Ont.) papers.
—We regret to announce that Rev. Richard Shortis, of ’49, met with an accident the other day while out sleigh-riding. He is perfectly well now.
—We are pleased to be able to announce that the health of Rev. D. J. Spillard, of ’64, is greatly improved and he is now out of danger. Such is the latest news from Austin, Texas.
—E. S. Brown, of ’65, N. S. Mitchell, of ’72, Thos. B. Clifford, of ’62, D. J. Hogan, of ’74, John F. McHugh, of ’72, Chas. J. Dodge, of ’74, Wm. W. Dodge, of’74, Orville T. Chamberlain, of ’61, James E. Mc’Bride, of 68, William J. Clarke, of ’74, James A. O’Reilly, of ’69, John D. McCormick, of ’73, C. M. Proctor, of ’75, Arthur J. Stace, of’64, D. A. Clarke, of’70, and T. A. Dailey, of’74, all advertise in the Scholastic.
—We were pleased to meet this last week Rev. P. J. Golovin, of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., who came here to witness the Thespian Entertainment on Thursday evening. Father Golovin, who is enjoying excellent health, was received with many expressions of joy and pleasure by those of the students who attended class here last year and who remember him with the kindliest feelings. On Wednesday evening the Band gave him a serenade in front of the College, to which he pleasantly responded. He reports all our friends in Watertown in good health.	______________
Local Items.
—The Band was out serenading on the 22d.
—One week from next Wednesday, Lent begins.
—Washington’s Birthday passed off pleasantly at Notre Dame.
—The report of the Thespian Entertainment will appear next week.
—To-morrow week the Forty Hours’ Devotion will begin in the church.
—The British lion is roaring at Russia, but it roars as gently as a sucking dove.
—All the Societies have reorganized for the second session and are doing well.
—The music by the Band and Orchestra at the Thespian Entertainment was very good.
—The Columbians have high hopes of giving the best Exhibition ever given on St. Patrick’s Day.
—Washington Hall was beautifully decorated by the Thespians for the Entertainment on the 21st
—Everything goes on as usual at the Manual Labor School. There is plenty of work in all the shops.
—We call attention to the description of the Toner Medal in St. Mary’s department of this week’s Scholastic.
—Signor Gregori has been working hard for some time past, finishing the large pictures in the eastern transept of the new church.
—We understand that the Entertainment of the Columbians on St. Patrick’s day will be both literary and dramatic in character.
—Quite a large audience greeted the Thespians on Thursday evening, when the play of Henry IV was given with great success.
—Some one inquires: "How will Englishmen get along if there’s no Hell ? ” They will find it very difficult to spell certain words.
—The St. Cecilians claim that with their May Entertainment they will bear off the palm from all the societies. Their articulation cannot be surpassed.
—In looking over the Rolls of Honor in past years, we find the rolls larger in the second session than the first, although the number of students were generally less.
—The Philopatrians claim that they are only waiting for the Columbians to come out on the 17th of March and then, they say, they will come out in force and surpass them.
—Every one who has not as yet joined the Lemonnier Circulating Library Association should do so at once. No student can afford to neglect the advantages offered by this Association.
—The Class of Calisthenics is well attended this session, and great progress is made by the students. This result naturally follows when both teacher and pupils are interested in their work.
—The costumes used by the Thespians at their Entertainment on Thursday evening were very fine. They were from the establishment of Kellogg, of Chicago, the costumer for McVicker’s Theatre.
—The Columbians will celebrate the Feast of St. Patrick with a public Entertainment in Washington Hall. We believe there is talent enough among them to make the Entertainment a memorable one.
—Any young man who wants to keep his self-respect, maintain a good conscience, earn a steady and honorable living, and save his soul, must be careful to keep out of politics.—Catholic Columbian.
—At the meeting of the Archconfraternity of the B. V.M. on Sunday evening essays were read by Messrs. McEniry, Maguire and Fitzgerald. Messrs. McMahon, Lambin and O’Brien were elected members.
—Large mails during the week, especially on the 14th (Valentine’s day). Some hearts were made glad, and others the reverse. Unless our friend John cools off before vacation we would advise a certain Chicago boy to keep close quarters.
—There were several very exciting and closely contested games of alley-ball played during the week by the Juniors. One of the best games was between F. Bloom and K. Scanlan and F. Lang and J. McNellis. The latter athletes were victorious.
—The 21st regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on the 23d. Masters Scanlan, and McCarthy gave a dialogue. Declamations were delivered by Masters Gibbons, Burger, Hafner, Lang, Pleins, McNellis, and F. Clarke.
—The 22d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held on the 20th. Masters Widdicombe, Hagan, McGrathr Perea, Nelson, and Donnelly delivered declamations. Masters Bloom, C. Clarke, Healy and Sugg read essays.
—The 21st regular meeting of the Columbian Literary
410
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A. Granger, C. S. C.; President, Mr. Thos. McNamara, C. S. C.1st Vice-President, R. Costello; 2d Vice-President, J. Courtney; Secretary, W. Coolbaugh; 1st Censor, P. Fitzgerald; 2d Censor, C. Herzog; Treasurer, C. Crowe; Librarian, C. McGrath. There are now forty members in the Society.
—We wish- that we could make our personal column chatty and gossipy, but unless the old members of the College give us their addresses, tell us of their success in life, etc., and jot down for us all they know of their classmates, we don’t see how we can do it. It is no easy matter for us to hunt up personals. Now, in order to ease our load let every old member of the College who sees this item immediately take his pen or pencil and write to us all that he knows of his classmates. By doing so he will convey information to others who in return will keep him posted in regard to those he wots not of.
—The heavy fall of snow last week put the Juniors on the qui-mve for a sleighride, what, therefore, was their disappointment when old “ Sol ” rose high on Wednesday morning and seemed determined to melt all hope within them! But his scathing breath did not prove as fatal as expected, and theNew Orleans boys (with Masters J. L. Lemarie, E. J. Pennington and j. Cassard as a commitee of arrangements)— on Thursday, the 14th, fearing this would be the last chance they would have to enjoy their first ride—procured one of Mr. Hatch’s best teams. Bro. Paul took the reins, and the horses’ heads were turned towards the College Farm, where the party had a pleasant time. They state that at the farm the good people vied with each other in entertaining them, for which kindness the committee and all concerned return their sincere thanks.
—As we go to press on Friday, we have not time to speak at any length of the Entertainment given by the Thespian Association on the evening of Thursday, February 21st. The drama was a complete success, all the young gentlemen acquitting themselves in a manner highly creditable to themselves and to their Society. The energetic director is to be congratulated on the proficiency displayed by his pupils, who have improved vastly under his instructions. The oration, the music, etc., were worthy of praise. Next week we will speak at length of the Entertainment, endeavoring to show up the good points aud at the same time draw attention to such defects as may have occurred. As, however, the defects were not many, our labors on that score may be looked upon as light. Taking the Entertainment altogether, it was not unworthy the Society which gave it, and it proved that the Thespians are still first-class. •
—The editor of The Pilot, Boston, Mass., has quite a complimentary notice of the banquet given by the contributors to this paper. In concluding, he says: “ On the whole, the occasion was a delightful one, which we trust will be often repeated, for we hope that at some lucky future time it may be our own good fortune to get an invitation from the editor of The Scholastic, to attend the dinner of his Catholic University journalists.” From this we conclude that the invitation sent to The Pilot office was not received there. That it was sent by Messrs. Ewing, McHugh and Cooney we are certain, and regret that it should have gone astray. Next year, however, we intend having a grander banquet on the Feast of St. Francis de Sales, to which we trust a representative of every Catholic paper will come, and if the accomplished editor of The Pilot attends we will guarantee him an excellent time.
—Bro. Theogene’s school, in St. Patrick’s parish, South Bend, is getting along nicely. There are now attending school some ninety pupils, all of whom the teacher has succeeded in interesting in their studies, and their progress has been very satisfactory. In the late examination the following distinguished themselves by the correctness and promptness of their answers: J. Conley, J. Hogan, J. Callahan, C. Messenger, J. Casey, P. Shickey, M. O’Neill, J. Morley, W. Glassman, P. Maher, J. McCabe, P. Honilan, O. McCreary, J. Seifert, T. Lawlor, H. Bauer, W. Debley, T. Ledwich, T. Brierly, B. Mahon, J. Renan, J. Goodyear, W. Seifert, S. O’Brien, S. Sheehan, F. Gillen, J. O’Day, T. Casey, A. Cahill, T. Houlahan, F. Ditz, G. McCreary, J. McCreary, E. McCabe, E. Dubail, E. Byerly, F. Brothers, H. Braunsdorf, and W. Maher. Bro. Theogene would
and Debating Club was held on the 12th. Mr. Murphy was elected to membership. Essays were read by Messrs. Fischel, Fitzgerald and Ginz. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. Nodler and Congar.
—He had only studied law here for a couple of months ■ when he was called home for a few days, and his five year | old brother tormented the life out of him. Then he drew himself up to his full height and said: “I take more from you than would any other lawyer in Lebanon! ”
—At a meeting of the University Baseball Club held Feb. 20th, 1878, the following officers were elected: Director, Bro. Theodore; President, Jno; Fitzgerald; Sec, retary, A. J. Hertzog; Treasurer, J.E. Cooney; 1st Censor, R. Routledge; 2d Censor, E. McMahon; Captain, E. Maley.
—To-morrow is Sexagesima Sunday. In the morning the ifissa de Angdis will be sung. Vespers are of St Felix, Pope and Confessor- the psalms and antiphons may be found on page 48 of the Vesperal, and the hymn on page 49. The Commemoration of the Sunday is on page 80.
—The 22d regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held on the 16th. The debate was: Which is the greater incentive to exertion, the hope of reward or the fear of punishment? On the affirmative the principal speaker was Mr. Spalding; on the negative, Mr. Bannon. The decision was in favor of the affirmative. An essay was read by Mr. Keenan.
—The members of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary and the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception went to Holy Communion in a body on Saturday last. The Communions were offered for the repose of the soul of our late Holy Father, Pope Pius the Good. No man on his death ever received the fervent prayers of so many people as does Pope Pius IX.
—When will people learn to understand that they do a mean, contemptible thing when filching papers from the reading-room and books from the library? There are some people who think that because they are students or are connected with the house they have a right to take things from these places without permission of those in charge. They show their stupidity in holding this belief.
—St. Joseph’s Academy, South Bend, is in a most flour, ishing condition. There are now over one hundred younglady pupils attending the classes, and there is every prospect of the number increasing. Especial attention is paid to English grammar, history, mathematics, and English literature. Music is also taught, and many of the pupils are under instruction in the vocal aud instrumental departments.
—Rev. P. W. Condon, President of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., has our thanks for an invitation to an Entertainment given on the 21st by the St. Patrick’s Literary Society in the College Hall in that institution. As we were detained here by our Thespian Entertainment, and laid up with a cold, it was impossible for us to attend. We regret our inability to witness the Entertainment, but return thanks for the invitation.
—A Solemn Requiem Mass was sung at St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, for Pope Pius IX, on Wednesday last. The panegyric was preached by Very Rev. President Corby and was worthy the occasion. There were present at the ceremony besides the Very Rev. preacher, Revs. John Lauth, V. Czezewski, Thos. E. Walsh, John A Zahm, Julius Erdre, C. J. Kelly, and others. Everything passed off in a becoming manner, and the ceremonies are spoken of as impressive and solemn.
—On the occasion of the visit of Rev. P. J. Golovin, who for three years was President of the College, the boys gave him a serenade on the evening of his arrival, Wednesday 20th. In the evening “ rec.” was given, and greatly enjoyed. After supper the boys called upon him for a speech and he gave them one of those excellent little “ talks ” for which he is so famous here. His reception by the students proved that he has lost none of the affection ever held towards him by all at Notre Dame.
—The 25th regular meeting of the Holy Guardian Angels’ Society took place Sunday, Feb. 10-h. At this meeting an election of officers for the coming session took place. The following are the officers: Director, Very Rev.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
411
HMM
wish that the parents of the pupils would attend the examination more generally than they do. As it is, all who did attend were well pleased with it, and we hope that at the June examinations the rooms will be crowded with parents who will themselves examine.
—The following resolutions were adopted by the members of the two Archconfraternities of the Blessed Virgin at their meeting on Sunday evening last:
Whereas, By the will of God,' our Holy Father, Pius the Ninth, has been called from the scene of his earthly trials and triumphs:
Be it Resolved, That while mourning his loss to Holy Church, we, as her children, feel that death was to him but an opening to a life of glory. And
Be it Resolved, That we, in a body, shall on the month’s mind of the late glorious Pontiff offer up a Communion and our fervent prayers for the repose of his soul.
P. J. Cooney,	]
J. P. McHugh,	|
J. G. Ewing,	I ...
W. A. Widdicombe, | Committee. F. C. Cavanaugh, I J. A. Burger,	J
—From the editors of the Aoii'e Dame Scholastic we received, too late for notice in our last issue, a very kind invitation to be present at the banquet given by that highly respectable body of literateurs on the Feast of St. Francis, patron of journalism. Had we sent a letter of regret we would have worded it somewhat after this fashion: “Your neatly embossed and flattering invitation to be present at your proposed banquet was enthusiastically received. As we always decline, on general principles, to grace banquets _ with our presence, you will please pass our name into the casket of oblivion. Might also state that your invitation reached us about six hours before the period allotted for the opening of your gastronomical fete—and as the walking was very bad at the time we could hardly be expected to travel to Notre Dame in that brief space of time. However, to show that we are with you in sympathy, we would respectfully suggest that you forward, at earliest convenience, six good-sized Indiana turkeys, and we’ll pay the postage. Yours fraternally, etc.” The Scholastic gives a detailed account of the proceedings of the entertainment. Having read it we pronounce that the boys and invited guests must have had a recherche time.—Niagara Index.
—For the benefit of those parties who think it a grand joke to take a certain gentleman’s horse and drive it after nightfall, we would state that it is a common but erroneous impression that private persons have no right to arrest a person who has committed an offense unless upon warrant. The case of Smith vs. Donnelly, 66th Illinois, 464, and 466, was an action for false imprisonment arising out of these circumstances. The defendant left his horse and buggy in the street, where some boys found and took it. Discovering this, he and his servant started in pursuit, and about 11 o’clock at night they found the boys with the conveyance, the horse bearing every mark of having been furiously driven. The defendant, the owner of the horse and buggy, took the boys home with him and tied their hands and feet and confined them until the next morning, when he took them to the calaboose and entered a complaint before a justice, who discharged them. They brought suit against him for false imprisonment and got a judgment. The case went to the supreme court, where the judgment was reversed. Judge Lawrence in delivering the opinion said: “ Our criminal code makes the unlawful taking of a horse from the place where it may be left by the owner a high misdemeanor, and subjects a person guilty thereof to a fine or imprisonment. If the plaintiff with the other boys, or by himself, took the horse and carriage from the post where they had been left by the owner, he was guilty of a high misdemeanor under the statute, and the defendant (i. e. the owner) had a right to arrest him without suing out a warrant or calling an officer...Both of these instructions should have told the jury that defendant had a right to arrest if the boys are guilty of either of these offenses, instead of confining the right to the case of stealing.” If a private person may arrest.without warrant, as our supreme court holds in case of a high misdemeanor, can there be any question as to the right in case of a felony ?
Repeatedly has the supreme court of Illinois declared that private men may make arrest without warrant where crime has been committed, and may be justified upon the guilt of the arrested party being shown. See 43 Ill. 95, Dodds vs. Beard; and 51st Illinois, 401, Kindred vs. Stitt. A peace officer may make arrest without warrant when there is strong reason to believe the accused guilty. See 43d Illinois, 95. Otherwise persons would frequently escape while the warrant was being procured. The Statutes of 1874, p ige 400, section 392, authorize a peace officer to arrest without warrant.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR department.	’
E. E. Arnold, W. Arnold, E. K. Anderson, M. W. Bannon, T. Barrett, T. E. Barry, P. J. Cooney, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, B. J. Claggett, J. J. Carroll, W. L. Dechant, E. J. Dempsey, E. C. Davenport, A. Dorion, C. K. De Vries, J. Deehan, J. G. Ewing, L. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, E. Gramling, S. Gooley, Geo. Goble, A. J. Hertzog, L. Horn, P. J. Hagan, M. Hogan, J. J. Houck, J. F. Hoffman, F. S. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, P. J. Kinney, F. B. Keller, J. F. Krost, P. Krueper, J. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. Murphy, H. C. Maguire, J. D. Montgomery, E. Maley, O. 8. Mitchell, J. P. -McHugh, J. J. McEniry, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, T. F. O’Grady, W. O’Brien, C. O’Brien, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Qilinn, M. J. Regan, R. Routledge, J. Rabbitt, E. W. Robinson, J. Rice, T. 8. Summers, J. J. Shugrue, S. T. Spalding, C. L. Stuckey, J. 8. Smith, G. Walters, E. A. Walters, F. J. Walter, F. Williams, E. M. Richardson, B. Kratzer.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, A. J. Buerger, J. Berteling, C. Brinkman, H. E. Canoll, J. Carrer, T. F. Clarke, F. E. Carroll, F. C. Cavanaugh, G. P. Cassidy, G. H. Cochrane, D. 8. Coddington, G. H. Donnelly, W. P. Doyle, R. French, H. J. Fenner, P. Frain, H. A. Gramling, J. L. Healy, G. L. Ittenbach, J. B. Ittenbach, R. E. t Keenan, J. R. Kelly, J. Larkin, F. W. Lang, J. Lumley, J. D. * McNellis, C. Cavanagh, W. J. McCarthy, C. McKinnon, R. P. Mayer, J. Matthews, T. Nelson, J. O’Donnell, J. G. Orr, F. T. Pleins, 8. 8. Perley, E. J. Pennington, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, M. Roughan, C. Van Mourick, W. A. Widdicombe, H. Newmark.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. J. Bushey, J. Scanlan, G. Lambin, C. McGrath, G. Knight, C. Crennen, J. Courtney, N. Nelson, A. Hartrath, P. Nelson, O. ' Farrelly, A. Coghlin, W. Coghlin, W. Coolbaugh, J. Inderrieden, C. Bushey, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Herzog. E. Esmer, P. Fitzgerald, J. Devine, J. McGrath, E. Herzog, T. O’Neill, H. Snee, C. Welty, J. Crowe, S. Bushey, I. McGrath, F. Farrelly, W. Rheinhardt, C. L. Garrick.	I
Class Honors.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
J. G. Baker, M. H. Bannon, P. Dougherty, L. Eisenman, J. Feuerstein, A. Ginz, A. Hatt, J. Hoffman, F. 8. Hoffman, J. Healy, F. Hellman, J. J. Houck, A. Hettinger, F. Keller, J. Krost, P. Krueper, H. Murphy, W. J. McCarthy, O. McKone,. Jno. Matthews, E. Maley, J. Rothert, E. Routledge, E. W. Robinson, EL L. Scanlan, A. Sievers, T. 8. Summers, C. L. Stuckey, E. Dempsey, Wm. Van Volkenburgh, C. Walsh, H. Newmark.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. Bushey, A. Coghlin, W Coghlin, W. Coolbaugh, J. Inderrieden, J. Scanlan, W. McDevitt, M. Herrick, G. J. Rhodins, G. Lambin, G. Knight, Jas. Courtney, Jos. Courtney, A. Bushey, O. Farrelly, A. Hartrath, J. A. Seeger, C. McGrath, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Herzog, E. Esmer, P. Fitzgerald, J. Devine, J. McGrath, E. Herzog, T. O’Neill, G. Garrick, F. Farrelly, W. Rheinhardt, C. Long, H. Kitz.
List of Excellence.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Grammar—G. Walters, C. L. Stuckey, F. Luther, A. Sievers, K. L. Scanlan, J. G. Baker; Reading and Orthography—J. H. McConlogue, E. Maley, J. Deehan, F. McGrath, J. W. Guthrie; Geography and History----; Arithmetic—C. L. Stuckey, J. Matthews, A. Sievers, L. Eisenman ; Book-Keeping-.
The honorable mentions for Book-Keeping and for Geography and History will appear in next week’s Scholastic.
412
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

—The third number of The Chimes was read at the weekly reunion in the study-hall. The editresses were the Misses J. Burgert, E. Shaw, A. Brown, A. Morgan, and F. Cregier of the Third Senior Class. Had the good Chaplain of St. Mary’s (whose illness is most deeply regretted) been present, we are sure he would have praised the Chimes, as they well merited commendation.
—At half-past eleven on Sunday night, the pure and gentle soul of Sister Mary of St. Rita, passed away from.'earth. For years this dear Sister has devoted herself with the most sincere zeal and assiduity to her charge as President of the study-hall in the Senior Department The sad intelligence of her death will be received with poignant sorrow by the many young hearts to whom she endeared herself. The simple, quiet influence which she exerted for a length of time in her unobtrusive intercourse with them, and the piety and patience with which she endured the inroads of a lingering and painful malady, will not be soon forgotten by the young ladies of St Mary’s, and will achieve its holy work, we trust, when the form of the beloved one shall be mouldering away beneath the greensward of the convent cemetery. May she rest in peace.
—Several successful attempts at landscape painting have been produced in St. Luke’s Studio. The delightful snowscenes spread out before the vision after the snowstorms of lastrweek have been most felicitously grasped by the energetic and enthusiastic lovers of the beautiful in nature and in art Two snow-scenes in water-colors are deserving of particular mention. One, a view from the Studio window, of the old Academy buildings, and another, a sketch of Loreto under the white mantle of winter. The last mentioned, is the first attempt at landscape painting made by Miss Genevieve Welch, and is very good indeed. This young lady is about to bid adieu to the Studio, but we trust some time to welcome her back, and that under St. Mary’s roof she will continue the cultivation of the rich talent with which she has been so freely endowed.
The Toner Medal.
By the kindness of Mother Superior we were favored with a sight of the beautiful medal given by Dr. Toner of Washington, D. C., to be awarded to the pupil in the Art Department of St. Mary’s Academy who should prove herself most worthy of it. And not only were we favored with a sight of the medal itself, but of the choice and appropriate poetic address to Dr. Toner; and, moreover, of the cover to that address, which was of the same form as the medal, but with the laurel wreath in green, beautifully toned with red and yellow browns; a charming piece of artistic skill.
We were delighted with the whole package as we released it from its careful wrappings, and immediately fell to wondering which pupil would win it; pondering over-mot only the natural talents of the various ones as we remembered them, but their industry, fidelity, and perseverance; for all these qualities have a good deal to do with winning such a medal as Dr. Toner has sent to the Art Department at St. Mary’s.
But there was a satisfaction beyond even that given by the medal or the address or the cover, beyond even the singular satisfaction which we felt in the generosity of the donor; for it was a proof that Dr. Toner appreciated the efforts made by the Superior of the Order of Holy Cross at Saint Mary’s to perfect a system of drawing and painting which should be a true art education to every pupil in eluding it in her academic course.’ So practical and outspoken an appreciation from a scientific man of Dr. Toner’s position may well encourage not only every pupil in the Art Department, but every teacher connected with it, and
every Superior who may be held accountable for the success of the department.
We remember (how well!) when this system of drawing and painting from objects and from life, and according to the most approved methods in European schools, was first planted at St. Mary’s in 1869. I was called by a letter from Mother Angela to come and develop her ideas in this department. A tender sapling, perhaps, it seemed then; likely to bear sparse blossoms, and still more sparse fruit. A few novices (including, however, the one whose deft hand must have colored that laurel wreath) began to work upon this plan in a room of what is now “ S lint Ann’s wing of Saint Mary’s.” A small room, and with none too good a light, we remember. But the good will of earnest novices can overcome such difficulties, and each one of these went forth on her mission or to her class-room with a resolution to carry out in her teaching the principles she had been taught. This was the beginning of the first “ Art Training School for Teachers” which we have heard of in the United States. Mr. Walter Smith’s mission did not begin on our shores until one year later than the date of this one at Saint Mary’s. At the June Exhibition that year, Rev. Father Boyle of Washington made the closing remarks, and dwelt with real enthusiasm on the system of drawing and painting introduced. But in 1872 the efforts of the Superiors to establish this system upon a permanent basis, to make it “ part and parcel ” of their educational plans, took a very decided form. From that time until the present, no pains, as we can testify, have been spared to render the course of Art-instruction in the Academy of Saint Mary’s as thorough as in that of any other branch of study; the pupils passing from one grade to another upon the same conditions as in arithmetic, grammar or music. To make a study thorough and at the same time attractive is the glory of any system or method, and the crown of any teacher; and this glory, and this crown, certainly belong to the Art department at Saint Mary’s. As to its attractiveness, those who assemble in the beautiful new Saint Luke’s Studio can certainly bear witness, and their progress is a proof.of its thoroughness, while the general-class instruction given in the Senior and, Junior study-halls familiarizes the ear, the eye and the mind of every pupil iu the school to the elementary principles of art, both artistic and decorative, and trains every hand which does not refuse to be trained in the practice of these elementary principles. Five teachers are devoted to this work, iu th Academy, and we can testify to their fidelity and their enthusiasm.
Not only this: for if St. Mary’s had legislated for herself alone we might, perhaps, doubt the sincerity of her convictions on this question of Art-education. The Sister who goes forth on her mission with an obedience to teach drawing and painting goes forth armed with her Art Manual; no printed book adorned with lithographs, fresh from the press of the publisher; but a manual written with her own hand, containing such definitions, such rules and such methods, as are required to teach children to draw, from the first vertical line to that grade of the department in which she is expected to teach, and which she has gone over with a diligence satisfactory to her Superiors; while the illustrations have been executed by her own pencil or brush. It is to this system of art instruction, carried out with such sincerity in the schools under the care of the Sisters of the Order of Holy Cross, and to every Sister who conscientiously teaches it, that Dr. Toner has given a proof of approbation more precious even than the gold one which is to make some good pupil happy next June. We thank this gentleman, in the name of all good art, for this approbation so beautifully manifested, and we are certain that the emulation in a good cause which it will-excite will not be limited to the Art Department at St. Mary’s.
We would remind the generous donor of the Toner medal that he follows illustrious steps while thus encouraging the Art studies at St. Mary’s; for no less a person than Pio Nono has sent to it a special benediction by my own hands, when leaving my position as principal of St. Luke’s Studio at St. Mary’s I entered Rome in the winter of 1876. While the air is so full of rumors as to the probable decease of the saintly Pontiff, this touching fact may well inspire the hearts of all connected with this Department

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	413
with a holy courage and an enthusiastic fidelity, since the benediction does not die with the hand that so benignantly bestows it.	Eliza Allen Starr.
Chicago, Feb. 8th, 1878.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Misses B. Reynolds, L. O’Neill, J. Cooney, M. Spier, P. Gaynor, A. Henneberry, M. O’Connor.
1st Senior Class—Misses C. Boyce, H. Russell, B. Wilson, 8. Moran, E. Lange, M, Ewing, I. Fisk.
2d Senior Class—Misses N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, B. Thompson, M. Way, N. Keenan, S. Hamilton, L. Keena, Z. Papin, A. Woodin, N. Davis, M. Luce, M. Danaher, N. King.
3d Senior Class—Misses J. Burgert, F. Cregier, M. Sullivan, E. Shaw, C. Hackett, A. Brown, E. Schwass, M. Galen, A. Morgan, M. Halligan, M. Brown, T. Pleins, M. Wagner, A. Thomas, A. Gordon, J. Winston, C. Lloyd, A. Farrell, F. Kingfield, A. Kirchner, M. Mulligan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses M. Usselman, L. Chilton, A. McGrath A. Geiser, E. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. White, E. Thomas, E. Miller, A Thomas, M. Mullen, E. Kelly, J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, F. Fitz?
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses L. Fox, L. Van Namee, M. Hake, A. McGinnis, L. Wood, F. Sunderland, L. French, M. Lyons.
1st Jr. Class—Misses J. Butts, E. Wooten, N. Lloyd.
2d Jr. Class—Misses P. Felt, M. Ivers, B. Haney, L. Walsh, T. Haney.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Miss J. Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Plattenburg, M. Luce.	i
1st French Class—Misses N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, N? Keenan, H. Russell, B. Wilson.
2d Class—Misses J. Burgert, A. McGrath, B. Reynolds, M. O’Connor, J. Cooney.
2d Drv.—Misses N. Galen, S. Moran, M. Ewing, A. Geiser.
3d Class—Misses Z. Papin, M. Wagner, A. Ewing. E. Mulligan, M. Brown, M. Birch, J. Butts.
2d Div.—Misses F. Kingfield, M. Casey, M. Danaher, E. Shaw, L. Chilton, M. Cox, L. Fox.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses A. Kirchner, A. Geiser.
2d Drv.—Misses M. Usselman, S. Rheinboldt, L. Walsh.
2d Class—Misses L. O’Neill, A. Hennebery, K. Barrett, F. Cregier.
3d Class—Misses S. Hamilton, M. Way, C. Boyce, E. Miller.
2d Div.—Misses N. King, M. Loeber. .
honorably mentioned in instrumental music.
Graduating Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
1st Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, A. Geiser, L. Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses M. Spier, A. Harris, N. Keenan, L. O’Neill, N. Galen.
2d Drv.—Misses G. Welch, A. Gordon, H. Buck, M. Usselman, A. Henneberry, M. Kingsfield.
3d Class—Misses J. Burgert, L. New.
2d Div.—Misses W. Dudley, E. Lange, A. Farrell, A. Kirchner, M. Brown, E. Foster, L. Walsh, A. McGrath, N. McGrath.
4th Class—Misses A. Reising, A. Morgan, P. Gaynor, B. Anderson, J. Cooney, K. Hackett, A. Maloney.
2d Div.—Misses E. Richardson, M. Way.
5th Class—Misses M. White, J. Winstoir, M. Danaher, A. Woodin, F. Cregier, K. Barrett, L. Papin, E. Shaw, M. Wagner.
2d Diy.—Misses L. M. French, L. Otto, M. Cleary, L. Wood, N. Hackett, C. Boyce.
6th Class—Misses I. Fisk, S. Rheinboldt, L. Schwass, M. Mulligan, M. Lambin, E. Thomas, A. Peak, M. Loeber.
2d Drv.—-Misses B. Parrott, M. Hake, E. Wright, E. Kelly, E. Mulligan.	_	_
7th Class—Misses A. McKinnis, J. Kingsbury, L. Ellis, S. Hamilton, M. Cox.
8th Class—Misses M. McFadden, E. Wooten.
Organ—Miss W. Dudley.
Guitar—Miss B. Anderson.
Harmony—Misses Wilson, T. Pleins, L. Kirchner, A. Geiser, C. Silverthorne.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss L. Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses A. Kirchner, M. Usselman.
3d Class—Misses D. Gordon, K. Hackett, J. Winston, A. Brown, L. Otto.
2d Div.—Misses 8. Rheinboldt, R. Richardson, A. Geiser.
4th Class—Misses W. Dudley, A. Farrell, M. Casey, B. Anderson.
5th Class—Misses M. Mulligan, E. Galen, M. Ewing, M. Hake, L. Schwass.
Chorus Singing—Misses B. Thompson, B. Parrott, N. Hackett, J. Barnes.
Gen. Class—Misses J. Butts, L. Van Namee, L. Miller.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY mentioned.
1st Class—Miss E. Lange.
Promoted to the 3d Glass,—Miss A Kirchner.
4th Class—Misses J. Burgert, M. Plattenburg, A Farrell, E. Thomas, 8. Hamilton.
Promoted to the 4th Class,—Misses H. Buck, J. Butts.
5th Class—Misses E. Mulligan, L. French, M. Way, E. Miller, L. Chilton, L. Schwass. '
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses "E. Shaw, B. Thompson, L. Otto, M. Luce, B. Wilson, F. Brazelton, N. McGrath, A. Brown, M. Winston, A Morgan, M.Cleary, M. Halligan, D. Gordon, M. Mullen, M. Sullivan, A. Maloney, M. Danaher, M. Ewing, M. Birch, A Thomas, M. Hayes, E. Richardson, E. Thomas, E. Wright.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. McGrath, L. Wood, L.‘ Ellis, A. Ewing, J. Kingsbury. M. Lambin, N. Kingfield, N. Hackett, A. McKinnis, L. Van Namee, M. Hake, L. French.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Promoted to the 2d Class, Misses L. Kirchner, G. Welch.
3d Class—Misses S. Moran, B. Reynolds, P. Gaynor, M. O’Connor. Promoted to this Class, Miss N. Davis.
4th Class—Misses M. Spier, 8. Rheinboldt. oil-painting.
2d Class—Misses E. Lange, P. Gaynor, B. Reynolds. _
3d Class—Misses N. Davis, L. Kirchner, M. O’Connor.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, L. O’Neill, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, A. Reising, B. Reynolds, 8. Moran, C. Silverthorne, L. Kirchner, L. Keena, G. Welch, N. King, K. Riordan, M. Halligan, M. Brown, T. Pleins, E. Schwass, M. Sullivan, A Farrell, J. Winston, S. Rheinboldt, M. Danaher. M. Usselman, M. Hayes, B. Parrott, M. Mullen, E Kelly, 100 par excellence. Misses H. Russell, E. Lange, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, I. Fisk, S. Hamilon, M. Casey, M. Way, M. Birch, M. Luce, K. Barrett, W. Dudley, Z.•Papin, E. Shaw, F. Cregier, L. Otto, H. Buck, M. Plattenburg, K. Hackett, A. Brown, L. Walsh, J. Burgert, B. Anderson, F. Brazelton, M. Galen, M. Winston, M. Cleary, M. Loeber, E. Thomas, M. White, E. Richardson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Kirchner, F. Kingfield, L. Chilton, A. Geiser, J. Kingsbury, L. Fox, M. Hake, A. McKinnis, L. French, L. Van Namee, L. Miller, M. Ivers, B. and T. Haney, L. Walsh, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Ewing, M. Lambin, F. Fitz, L. Ellis, L. Wood, N. Hackett, F. Sunderland, M. Lyons.
—Mr. Justice Bayley, while on the Northern Circuit, was one day summing up to a jury, when be was very much disturbed by Mr. Gray, son of the late Bishop Gray, who was talking in court with another counsel rather loudly. The judge greatly reproved the offender by saying to him, “ Mr. Gray, if ever you arrive here, which some of these days I hope you will do, you will know the inconvenience of counsel talking while you are summing up.”
—While Dr. Bloomfield was rector of Chesterford, it was the permanent annoyance every E ister Day that a stream of carriages was passing through the village, giving it the appearance and too much reality of .a noisy fair, while conveying the racing men of the day to Newmarket. The aristocratic sporting men would drive up to the inn in open carriages, playing at whist, and throwing out their cards would call to the waiter for fresh packs. To remove the scandal, it was only slowly that the Jockey Club was induced to alter the first day of the meeting to Easter Tuesday. The Duke of York, when applied to on the subject by Bishop Howley, declined to alter his practice, but added that “ though it was true he travelled to the races on Sunday-he always had a Bible and prayer-book in the car-riage,
414
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN	HABVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER dk MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpriOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at I Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.-
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.
JOHN F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE «fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE <Sc ATTT/CARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the IT. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLI A M J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus, O.
JAMES A_. O’REILLY-of ’69 —Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 28 “	11 10 “	6 20 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles -- .	10 45 “	12 15 “	8 14 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 40 p.m	10 00 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson....	3 45 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 45 “	6 30 “		3 35 “	8 no “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m		9 50 p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson....	10 20 “	12 15 p.m	•	12 45 a.n	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	4 00 a.m	2 53 “	2 25 a m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	4 24 “	12 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	7 50 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago....	6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30	8 00 “	6 45 “
Niles and Soutli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 pm. “ N. Dame— 8 52 ••	6 38 •• Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH.	. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager. Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A BTHUB J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for _/a_ St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
'Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COEEATBTAN.pub'ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum;
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A.VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.
• Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
THE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD D. FLYiNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
QFX CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
-	J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy, was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the speci es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, ardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTION'S OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox
Crystals and fragments		$ 50	$1	$1 50
Students’ size, larger		1 50	3	6.
Amateur’s size, 2*4 in.xl%...............’..
High School or Acad. size,2%x3>4 in. shelf specimens
College size, 3%x6 in., shelf specimens......
100	200'	300
$ 1	$ 2	$ 3
5	10	25
10	25	50
25	50	1 00
500	100	3 00
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, . Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Scie-ences ana of the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park, New York.
BBS"
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
415
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, insrzDTjk_nsr^L.
Founded 1842*	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Pull particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mai], over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
T 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 13pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 240 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a m; Chicago 8 am.	•
4, 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago, 11 10 a. m.	.
8 4=5 and 9 35 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’c West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
r. SHICKEY.

TYPE FOUNDERS,
CHICAGO,
Have the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from best quality of metal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse & Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.	. jan 5-3m
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS:
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Groundhoggery, Calendars, The Months—description, etc.,
January, .
February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December, The Two Rules,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women,
Pio Nono, A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q, In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer, The Duty of our Young
Men, * Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ?	.
Sonnet, Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella, Aerolites.
Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
Address,	J. A. LYONS,
'	Diotre Dame, Ind.;
or,
The Scholastic Printing- Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
SAMUEL
MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IH
AMATEUR TOOLS,
FOR
Amateurs, Boys and Girls.
Turning- Lathes,	Scroll Saws,
Hand Saws,	Saw Blades,
Fancy Woods,	New and Handsome
Small Engine Castings, designs for Brace-
Small Tools'of all Kinds, lets, etc.
Also, Pitbusuer of
The Amateur Mechanic,
A Monthly Journal of Practical Information for Amateurs, Boys and Girls. 50 Cents per Annum.
Send Stamp for sample Copy. Address
' SAMUEL HARRIS,
decs-tr 15 South Canal Street, Chicago, Ill.
416	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. _
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
	RAILWAY.					
Time Table, December 36,						1877.
Northward Trains.		No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.		No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.	
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru			4.35 P. M 7.10 “ 8.10 “		12.25 p. sr. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 a. sr. 9.52 “ 10.47 “	
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City			8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. 31.			11.10 a. sr. 1.14 p. sr. 2.45 “ 3.30 “	
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. > & Detroit Ex.		No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.			No. G. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis. -.. “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru...._		5.30 P. M. 2.55 “ 1.50 “		4.10 A. ST. 1.50 “ 12.38 “			9.10 a. sr. 6.33 “ 5.37	“
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. SL 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. M.		12.33 A. 31. 10.25 P. sr. 8.50 “ 8.05 “			
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.	Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.						
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota.' Its
GREEN BAT AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Free-■port, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 345 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	'
W. H. Stbnnett, -	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t? Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, NDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holv Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.	•
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal , and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
	GOING WEST				
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, MaH.
Pittsburgh,... Rochester.			11.45 p.m. 12.53 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “	6.00 AM. 7.45 “
Alliance,				3.10 A.M.	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,'			446 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield					7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,.....	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	 Forest		...Leave	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “	•••••••••
Lima,			10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,			1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Pl v month'				3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	-
Chicago,......		7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
					
GOING EAST.					
		bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, . Mail.
Chicago,	 Plvmnnfh			9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
		2.46 a.m.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6.55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,."			8.55 “	4.05 .“	1.30 A.M.	
PnresL			10.10 “	520 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,		.Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “	
					
Crestline,	 Mansfield		. .Leavet	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “	4.30 a.m. 5.00 “	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “
Orrville,...............		2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.05 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	1L20 “
Rochester.				6.22 “	1.21 A .M.	11.06 “	2.00 P.M.
Pittsburgh,....		7.30 “	2.30 “	1215 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.					
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
FjE. MYERS, G. P. & I. A,