©I) e S’djohiotic IJear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY A.T NOTRE DAME, flmtd to fbe Hfutoesisi of the Jhifleuts.
“ LABOR OMNIA ‘VTIVCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., MARCH 20, 1869. No. 28.
I.eet ure on Astronomy.
THE FIRST ASTRONOMER.
“I am no orator, as Brutus is,” and I expect to tell you but little more than “that which you yourselves do know.” Neither am I here to fill your minds with vague and painful wonders concerning vast spaces, endless numbers, and interminable distances. Astronomy is, indeed, a science of wonders; but it is also a science of simple facts, and it is concerning some of these that I shall speak to you on this evening. The field is a broad one, and I must of necessity take up but a small part of it; and even that I can explore but very superficially in the course of this short lecture.	.
Taking up, therefore, that very insignificant part of the universe with which we ourselves are' most intimately interested, I shall say something of the solar system, and give an outline of the most remarkable theories that have been proposed from the earliest ages concerning the sun and his attendant planets, of which our earth is one, a small one indeed, but the most important and interesting of all to us.
Everybody, save only that mythical personage who has not yet heard the shrill whistle of the steam-engine, every one of you I am sure, has noticed, at times, while sitting in the swiftly-gliding car, how difficult jt is to tell, for a moment, whether the car is moving one way or the trees outside rushing by in the other. Or at the railway station, when two trains have been at rest, and one of them starts out, how impossible it is, for a while, to tell whether our train or the other is in motion.
If these two trains were the only objects in existence it whould be utterly impossible for us ever to tell which train, was in movement, or
whether both were moving. Appearances would be perfectly accounted for by supposing that our train was moving one way, or the other train the opposite way; or both trains might be in movement, one one way, and the other the other; or again both the same way, one faster than the other. In fact, if we could see only our own train and the other, we should be quite unable to tell whether we were in 'motion or at rest, going one way or going the other. All we could affirm with confidence would be, that one of the trains was in motion in some direction. As soon, however, as we could catch a glimpse of a third object, outside both trains, we should know at once the true state of affairs, provided we could be certain that this third object were itself at rest. If the three objects, or a million -objects, as the case might be, were all in motion, then it would require the most careful and critical examination to determine with certainty whether we were at rest or in motion. .
A man in a crowd or in the midst of any great commotion naturally imagines himself to be the only object at rest, and that everything else is whirling round about him as the center of all their complicated movements; and, no doubt,'we should imagine our own train at rest and all the other objects rushing to the right and left for our especial amusement.
Now this is precisely the state in which the first astronomers found themselves: the earth was their station, and the whole multitude of the heavens were moving round about them; naturally they must have concluded that the earth was at rest, and the central object of this magnificent revolution. This was the only rational conclusion; for our senses are our only witnesses concerning external things, and, in this case, the evidence of the senses seemed overwhelming and conclusive. ,
The earth was fixed, not a moving train, while the sun, moon, and stars were sweeping off in

218	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
grand circles to the west; and no doubt for ages the minds of men were at rest in regard to the whole matter. Science is not necessary for man; the one thing needful is that he should prepare himself for the other life, where all things shall be made clear to his understanding; accordingly, God has never made a revelation of the absolute manner and order of creation, or of the real nature of things; this, in His good providence, He has left solely to the investigation of the human intellect, for its development and improvement, and as a means of knowing more and more the wisdom, the power, and the glory of the great Creator. We first give our attention to that which appears before our eyes, to that which is most pleasing, and of least trouble. In the infancy of the human mind, therefore, the appearance and the beauty of the universe attracted the whole attention of men, they had no time left to investigate its nature; it was the time of observation and description, not of examination and reasoning; the age of poetry, not of science.
In time there came a change; the human intellect was becoming critical; no longer satisfied with appearances, it thirsted for reality. For hundreds of years, men had been content to look upon the beauty of the heavens, and to call the stars by their names; now they wished to penetrate into the hidden truth of those brilliant orbs, to pierce the unknown mystery of that beauty which had so long delighted the generations of men.
As we might expect, the remoteness, the beauty, and the long-kept mystery of the starry heavens, was at first connected with the supernatural. What was placed so far above the bodies, as well as the understanding, of men was naturally referred rather to the spiritual than to the material ; to the heaven of their aspirations, the abodes of the blessed, rather than to the dull earth of their experience, the dwelling place of their frail mortality. This finally resulted in that strange mixture of truth and error, the so-called science of Astrology; which was destined in due tiipe to give place to the beautiful and sublime truths of Astronomy, the queen of the physical sciences.
We have seen that it was not according to the designs of Providence to reveal to man the nature and laws of the physical creation. God reveals what concerns our immortality, not our mortality. In the holy scripture and the Church, we find revealed the divine plan as regards our spiritual welfare. But, instead of teaching man the divine plan of the physical universe, God has given
him senses and intellectual powers to explore until the end of time the wonders of creation. The mind of man was made to labor, and the field of its exertions is so vast that the end of all things will come before all the secrets of the universe are discovered. The boundless creation of God is the field of man’s invigorating toil.
So far as man is concerned, the universe was formed for his material use, for his {esthetic pleasure, and finally as a problem for his intellectual investigation, that he may the better know something of the wisdom, the power, and the goodness of the Maker of all these things.
To all men the earth is useful as a place for their dwelling and sustenance, the sun is necessary to give heat and light by day, the moon and stars to brighten the darkness of the night.
To choicer souls the earth and the heavens are objects of beauty. Land and water, hill and dale, all pleasant sights and sounds of earth; the glowing sun, the lovely moon and the twinkling stars, all objects of beauty, and glory to them.
And this would seem to be enough; but God giveth more and more. It is not enough for His goodness to satisfy our bodily wants, and our love of the beautiful and the grand; He would also supply, even in His physical creation, food for the profoundest thought of man.
And so, after all men had enjoyed for ages the material good of the universe, after the finer spirits had drank in its beauty until their souls .were filled with delight, at last came the man of keenly intellectual mind, smitten with the love of truth, and filled with the desire of understanding the secret of the rolling spheres.
He stood upon the brow of an elevation in the cehter of a broad plain, and looked up to seek for knowledge. That was the first astronomer, and that little hill was his observatory, ready built by nature and solid as the globe itself. Round about him lay his flock reposing, guarded by his faithful dogs; for the first astronomers were shepherds of the East; of whom were also those concerning whom it was afterwards said in another place: And there were shepherds .... watching, and keeping the night-watches over their flocks. To the shepherds came the first news of the starry heavens, and to the shepherds also came the better news from the highest Heaven, the good tidings of great joy. Wisdom comes not to the sluggard, but to those who are wide awake and doing their duty. •
It was evening; the sun was sinking below the west, the stars were twinkling out one. by on
4


THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR	.219
until the whole heavens sparkled with light; and just above the east the moon shone forth, round, white and peaceful, moving up the sky
“ Like a sweet nun in holiday attire.”
The shepherd astronomer looked with rapture on the glorious spectacle, and there resolved that he would use the faculties which God had given him in trying to learn something of the beautiful creation about him. What was his first discovery ? He watched the stars, one by one, follow the sun, settle down, and disappear in the west; while others rose in the east and followed the course of the moon. The whole firmament was in silent motion, up from- the east, toward the south, and down toward the west and north, till the sparkling lights went out below the edge of the horizon.
Turning toward the north he gazed long and earnestly at the stars in that region. At length a strange suspicion steals upon-Jiis mind; he looks for some time longer; and then the first knowledge of the heavens flashes upon his exultant soul, the stars in the north move more slowly than those in the other parts of the heavens, and there is one bright star which does not move at all, it is the center of motion; the north star is found, the first truth of astronomy is discovered.
That was surely glory enough for one night. He gazed longer and longer at this silent, moveless north star, so as to be sure of his discovery; until at last he was absolutely certain that there was one star without motion. Then turning around to look again at the moon, he noticed that she was just between two bright stars ; this he had never noticed before, so he determined to watch the moon closely during the next evening. With this resolution he lay down to rest and to dream of his north star; and we may well suppose that not even Columbus was more happy after seeing the distant light on the evening before his discovery of America.
On that evening began the history, and the science, of Astronomy.	H.
[to be continued.] . —
“ Perseverance,”—An essay read before the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, by its author, Rufus McCarthy. It is a fine piece. The subject is treated with more than usual ability, and the ideas, very frequently new and original, are presented in an easy, fluent style to which the many English or Latin quotations give grace and elegance. We regret that the columns of our paper will not permit to print thislong essay.
A Letter from Very Rev. Father E. Sorin, Superior General.
It is with much gratification to ourselves that we publish the following letter from. Very Rev. Father Sorin, whose deep interest in the welfare of Notre Dame, does not cease to manifest itself in spite of the intervening distance. We are highly pleased to see that we have met with his own approbation of the system of written and oral Examination adopted last Session.
Le Mans, March 1, 1869.
Rev. Father : I received yesterday your welcome letter of the 8th ult., with a list of premiums to be purchased in Paris. You are surprised at my not receiving any Scholastic; I am, too— and I am not; for the reason of it is, I think, that • it was not mailed before; since it has been mailed I receive it very regularly. I am much pleased with the new method adopted for your last Semiannual Examination. It is a decided improvement, whoever its author maybe. This last number of The Scholastic exhibits, better than any of its predecessors, the life, the activity of your Institution. This long alphabetic list of names in the Senior Department (the only one that has reached us yet) accurately establishes the standing of each student in all the studies he pursues, at least it presents to my mind such a prima facie evidence of accuracy that it must have pleased every parent who earnestly wishes to see that his money is not wasted on his son. Of course you cannot expect to meet in your new method the sanction of a few idlers, such as are found in the United States as well as here in France; but, unless I am much mistaken, or the class of young gentlemen now residing at Notre- Dame have materially changed since I left, the vast majority will be pleased with it. The warm support which your honorable Faculty have given your new system of Examination, only shows what I always found in them,—an admirable, practical, excellent sense. I realize at once the working of the plan, and do not hesitate in calling it one of. the most important improvements introduced for several years in the University. To show you the esteem I make of it, I wish you to review it with your best Professors and present it as a complete treatise on examinations, both in English and in French, to the Provincial Council, to be transmitted here as one of the methods that should be ’adopted for the entire Congregation. A method which combines simplicity and thor-

220
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
©ugliness and leaves no room to partiality or injustice, naturally commends itself to all students whose sentiments are entitled to respect and consideration.
I received a week ago the interesting and welcome letter of the committee in behalf of the Hon. Faculty of Notre Dame. Will you do me the favor to convey them my thanks for the same ? I am happy to see that you have not only a fulb but also an excellent staff of Professors to do honor to Notre Dame and justice to your students for this Second Session. You may consider it beyond a doubt that I shall do myself the pleasure to attend your final Examination in June.
Your list of premiums I shall partly fill up in Paris and partly in Rome. Will not your dear boys pray that I may reach home safely ’ with my precious cargo ?
• E. Sorin.
Our Own.—This is the title of a new illustrated monthly magazine, conducted by Fannie Warner, and published by Gillen, Me Guigan and Griffin, 702 Chestnut street, Philadelphia Pa. The first number (April 1869) is now before us and contains articles on the following subjects, by writers of high repute: “ After All,” “ Memory and Hope,” “The Little Countess,” “Katy O’Callaghan (an Irish tale),” “A Portrait (poetry),’’ “ What it cost Mabel,” “ Biographical Sketch of George W. Childs,” “ The Crusader’s Song,” “ A Grandmother’s Story,” “ Housewife’s Own,” containing many practical hints to those interested. Next comes the department styled the “ Editor’s Desk,” full of interesting choice morsels. Then follows a beautiful song “ Our Own,” music by Alice Hawthorne. Here we have some fifty pages of choice reading for the small sum of $ 2. a year. All commendation from us of the literary chrracter of this new monthly is rendered unnecessary by stating the fact that the articles are contributed by such writers as Rev. A. J. Ryan (styled the poet-priest), R. S Mackenzie, Robert Morris, Ruth Fairfax, Alice Hawthorne, and others of like reputation, not forgetting the fair Editress herself, to whom we offer our heartiest encouragement, and our best wishes for the success of her laudable enterprise.
St. Louis Weekly Dispatch—Comes to us regularly and is always full of well written articles. We wish it all the success it justly deserves. Mr. Jno. Butler, formerly professor at Notre Dame, is local editor. P. L. Foy Wm. H. McHenry publishers.
/— ---------------------------------------
marine and other monsters.
True science cannot admit the existence of any fact unless it is well authenticated. Around the margin of Zoology we find therefore a fringe, as it were, of animals whose claims to reality are disputed, or at least not quite above the reach of doubt. Also a number of disputed facts in relation to the habits of animals of unquestioned reality. Is there such an animal as the sea-serpent ? Do dolphins assemble at the sound of music ? Zoology declines to answer, and by declining gives a new zest to the inquiry.
“ On the first of April, 1865,” writes Capt. Watt A. Stunner, of the H. S. N. (one of our most determined Arctic explorationists), being in lat. 71° 14', long. 53° 42', we found ourselves surrounded by large floating icebergs. The atmosphere being extremely cold, I served out a double allowance of rum to the seamen, and also found it necessary to take a little more than usual myself. Soon after, I observed through my glass a number of seals, of a species hitherto undescribed by zoologists. They were all furnished with a pouch similar to that of the opossum, kangaroo and other marsupials. They did not appear to use it, however, for the same purpose, but on coming to land (for they were disporting in the water when I observed them first) they drew from it a pair of spectacles and a copy of the Stew York Ledger, which they proceeded to read, after having properly adjusted the spectacles on their snouts. I immediately named the animal the Phoca Literaria, and commend it to the further research of naturalists.”
Who, after reading that beautiful and affecting poem:
"The curfew tolls the knell of parting day,” has not felt a vivid interest in that mysterious marine animal, the “ocean bear,” so suddenly, and as it were unexpectedly, mentioned in that wonderful line:
“ The dark unfathomed caves of ocean hear,” and yet how little—how very little—is absolute ly known concerning this animal. Probably the dark unfathomed caves in which he dwells have hitherto baffled all research. Further improvements on the diving bell must be made before we can hope for any new intelligence con cerning the Utsus Oceanians.
Among human monstrosities, the Greaser, or inhabitant of Mexico and its borders, half Creole, half Indian, is one of the most singular. A large proportion of the breed are .already citizens of

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	221
I.
our glorious republic. Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California are all more or less Greaser in their component human elements. They say that the whole race, by the annexation of Mexico, will soon be affiliated to us—they say—
At midnight in his guarded tent, That Grant is dreaming of the hour When Greaser knee before him bent, Shall tremble at his power.
We hope sincerely this dream is not destined to so fatal a wake-up as its prototype.
Domestic aud social monsters there .have been in the world’s history. There was the King of Denmark mentioned by Shakespeare, who on receiving a high note for ranks cried out in an agony of remorse:
“ Oh! my offence is rank! it smells to heaven!”
But such we hope are rare. They are very nice in tragedies, but socially that sort of thing is played out. By the way, there is a certain musical instrument which is never played out. If you notice, you always play the viol in.
But monstrosities in general, whether marine or human, are undesirable except as curiosities, and should invariably be kept under glass cases, stuffed. Hence we shall conclude.	S.
Portrait of the “Flatterer.”
By Juvenal (Sat. HI).
. . . . “ Quod adulandi gens prudentissima laudat Sermonem indocti, faciem detormis amici, Et longum invalidi collum cervicibus squat Herculis, Antaeum procul a tellure tenentis.
Natio* comoeda est. Hides? majore cachinno Concutitur; flet, si lachrymas conspexit amici, Nec dolet; igniculum brumes si tempore poscas, Accipit endromidem; si dixeris, ‘ sestuo,’ sudat.’\
Translation.
A most ingenious fellow! he extols the prate of a sot; a deformed friend he calls handsome, and compares the elongated nape and shoulders of a lank rake, to the powerful neck of Hercules who lifted above the ground the redoubtable Antseus. He is born a comedian. Do you laugh?—he splits his sides roaring. Does he see a friend shedding tears ?—he sobs loudly, but feels no sorrow. You shiver with cold, in winter ?—he puts on a warm woolen cloak. Say you, “I am warm”?— he sweats.	“ Tyro.”
* The Greek nation, to which the “flatterer” is here made to belong. Indeed, our satirical poet intimates throughout this satire that the Greeks are a people of comedians; and worse than that......
College BtjeeetiiV.
Arrival of Students at Dame.
March 8th.
Charles W. Swenk,	Chicago, Illinois.
March 18th.
W. H. Canavan,	West Lyons, Hl.
March 19th.	"
James Hand,	Lyons, Iowa.
Saint Patrick's Day, March 17, 1869.
The report of the fine entertainment whose programme we give below will appear in our next number. Although want of space forbids us to print it now, we cannot forbear returning our sincere thanks and appreciation of their merit to those who took part in the Exhibition. It was an evening well and agreeably spent.
PROGRAMME.
Part First.—Philharmonic Concert.
Entrance March.............N. D. U. Band
Overture.................................H.	D. U. Orchestra
Chorus, “ On, Gallant Company”. .Philharmonics Solo, comic................Mr. W. P. Rhodes
Solo, comic................Mr. Ivo Buddeke
Solo, comic.............................Mr.	J. M. Moriarty
Duet.............Messrs S. Corby, J. O’Reilly
Solo, serio-comic.............. .Mr. H. P. Morancy Solo, comic.............Mr.	M. S..Ryan
Chorus, "Artillerist’s Oath”.Philharmonics Oration of the day..........Mr. J. E. Shannahan Overture....................N..D. U. Orchestra
Part Second.
THE GHOST.
A Comedy in Three Acts, by the Thespian Society.
Dramatis Personal
Garrick, the Actor, as Capt. Storm and Mr. Wilde, Sr...................M.	S. Ryan
Plump, an honest Landlord........A. B. White Blind, a conscientious Magistrate. —H. B. Keeler Wilde, Jr..................James O’Reilly
Gouvernet, a Scene Painter.J. M. Moriarty Tom, a servant boy.........William Rhodes
George, not afraid of Ghosts...James Wilson Newsboy, crier of “The Star”...John Gavit Workmen, Soldiers and Citizens.
222
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Elocutionary Exercises
BTTHE ■
Senior and Junior Departments of the UNrfEBsrrT of Notre Dame, Saturday Evening, March 20th, 1869:
Grand Opening March............Cornet	Band
Overture, by the..................Orchestra
Eulogy to Gen’l W. T. Sherman... .J. Coppinger Hohenlinden (with variations). ...John McHugh Recitation by................ William	Walker
The Lady Maniac.;.......7.......Willie Clark
Paddy Dunbar—Parody...;.........James Deehan Cataline’s Defiance.............Mark	Foote
. The Frenchman and Flea Powder.....F. Dwyer
Music...................N. D. U. Cornet Band
Brutus’ Oration on Caisar..........D.	J. Wile
The Frenchman and the Rats.....Robert Staley The Union (with Class chorus).. .Charles Burdell Lost Pantaloons................James	Cunnea
The American Union....................Rufus	McCarthy
Socrates Snooks.......................James	Dickinson
Flag of Freedom................Harold	Hays
-r,. .	. J...............P. J. O’Connell
Rival Orators^.......................Thomas	Arrington
Music...................IL	D. U. Cornet Band
Burial of Moore....................Henry	O’Neil
Marco Bozzaris....................Lewis Hays
New England....-............George McCartney
Seminoles’ Reply............................H.	Green
Henry Clay’s Ambition.............M. Mahony
A Funny Accident........................George	Combs
Ode to Sleep............................Thomas	Ewing
Music.....................N.	D. U. Cornet Band
Political Pausing...................John	Garrity
Recitation......................Frank Spencer
Recitation (Sentimental).....................C.	Hutchings
Barbara Fritchie.............................A.	Hemsteger
Battle of Fontenoy.......................Philip	Cochrane
Recitation................................Frank	Ingersoll
Recitation, (The Mauiac).........James McGuire
Recitation........................  John	Nash
Parody on Hohenlinden.....Charles C. Burdell
Rum’s Maniac.................John	J. Fleming
Music..........................  Orchestra
The whole to conclude with recitations by PROFESSOR A. A. GRIFFITH, by special request of the Faculty.
Closing Remarks..............................
March for Retiring...............N.	D. U. C. B.
When Honorable Mentions are sent too late to be filed in the list, we beg that it be not ascribed to us as a want of courtesy if we refuse to publish them. We decline absolutely to receive late lists, and shall not in future pay any attention to them. We know that leniency on . this point would ill-serve the interest of all concerned. As the Mentions this week were not sent till Thursday, they are postponed to our next number.
A Challenge.
The members of the St. Edward’s Literary Association, believing that the semi annual report of the St. AloysiusPhilodemic Society (No. 24, of The Scholastic Year), was in such a style (whether intentionally so or not) as to depreciate the merits of the St. Edward’s—and furthermore believing that the semi-annual report of the United Scientific Association (No. 24, of The Scholastic Year) was designedly got up to make fun at our expense, return the following answer to both: we are willing to defend the opinion we have of ourselves, till it is shown by the Philodemics to be unfounded; and to give the U. S. A. an opportunity to ascertain whether or not we are a suitable object of laughter: therefore—We hereby challenge the Philodemics to a public debate on the following question: “ Should the right of Suffrage be conceded to Womangiving them the privilege of choosing either affirmative or negative at their pleasure, and determining the number of debates they are willing to put forward to support it, whereupon we shall take the opposite side and furnish an equal number of debates to maintain it. The result of this debate to be published in The Scholastic Year, and to decide the question of superiority between the two societies. If the question which we propose does not suit them, they shall be at liberty to propose another, with the understanding that we have the privilege of choosing whichever side of the question we prefer. We furthermore challenge the U. S. A. to a similar debate on the following scientific question—“Is the Doctrine of Innate Ideas founded in Truth ? ” with the same privileges and conditions as we have laid down for our debate with the Philodemics—and the result of this debate shall decide whether or not, in addition to our principal object of pursuit (literary) we are able to cope with them on their own'ground (scientific).
We are willing to undertake both these debates successively or simultaneously, as we feel satisfied that we can furnish a separate corps of debaters for each question, and we shall be prepared to enforce our challenge within a reasonable time after its acceptance by both or either of the challenged parties.
N. B. It must be understood that this challenge does not involve the Presidents or Directors of any of the societies, nor any professors, either
f
'J
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	223
directly or remotely connected therewith: it is to be a student’s debate and nothing more.
The decision shall be given by a disinterested party agreed upon by both societies.
We shall expect an answer to this challenge in that number of The Scholastic Year next following the number in which this challenge appears’, otherwise we shall consider the challenge as declined. H. B. Keeler, ]
J. P. Rogers, H n ...
J. Shannahan, J c<»nmi'ttee-
A. B. White, J
St, Edward’s Literary Society,
On Tuesday evening, 9th inst., the above Association held its " regular meeting, at which the following Essays were read. “ On Fame,” by Mr L. B. Logan; “A brief account of the Manners Customs and final overthrow of the ancient Germans,” by Mr-Dennis Tighe ; “ Language,” by Mr. W. Rhodes.
Mr. Logan's essay was well written, and gave a very clear idea of the subject.
Mr. Tigbe showed that he was well acquainted with the history of the ancient Germans, and his stylo was pleasing.
Mr. Rhodes’ essay was also considered very good ; he traced Language through its various stages of development, from its origin to the present day.
After the essays, Mr. Clarke took the stand and entertained us on the “ Manners and Customs of the Ancients.” Much information was obtained from Mr. Clarke’s speech.
Mr. Shannahan’s then followed, and delivered a very fine speech on “ Government.” Mr. Shannahan’s speech was excellent.
Having a little time, volunteers were called upon to deliver Declamations. Messrs Logan and Fleming answered the call. Mr. Logan repeated ‘’Mark Antony’s Apostrophe over the dead body of Caesar” and Mr. Fleming gave the “ Rum Maniac.’’ Both were delivered in a good style, and with care and practice these gentlemen will become good elocutionists.
Having no more business to transact, the meeting adjourned.
Reportsb.
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association,
The 20th and 21st regular meeting of the above Association were held March 6th and 7th. When the regular business had been concluded Master Geo. C. Combs presented himself for membership, and after giving two recitations in very fine style, he was unanimously elected a member. Then the subject for debate, ‘ Resolved: that Public Education is more beneficial to the citizen than Private,” was powerfully and ably discussed. Masters P. J. O’Connell, Robert Staley, Janies Deehan, G. McCartney, F. P Dwyer, sustaining the Affirmative; Masters V. Hackman, L. Wilson, J. McHugh, C. Burdell, supporting the Negative, brought forward vigorous arguments to prove each his side of the question, and they all showed that they had prepared themselves well for the contest, and had a thorough knowledge of the subject. Volunteers being called for, Master D. J. Wile came forward, and in if well-set speech, in favor of the Negative, almost made us believe, at first, by his shrewd reasoning, and glaring facts, that he would gain the decision in favor of his side; and he would have gained it, had not Master Foote supported the Affirmative bravely, showing the falsity of his opponent’s reasoning and establishing unanswerable arguments in favor of the Affirmative, citing facts from history and from his own experience proving conclusively that an education obtained in a well regulated Christian institution is the greatest blessing to man. His speech altogether was pointed, aud at times, witty. After him came
Masters Coppinger, and R. McCarthy both of whom, also on the Affirmative, spoke well and to the point. The President after summing up the arguments gave his decision in favor of the Affirmative. Owing to the limited space allowed us this week, we regret we cannot give at least a synopsis of the debate, as the question is one of vital importance to parents. We hope to do so in a future number of The Scholastic. Rev. Father Lemmonier was present, and at the close of the debate expressed his entire satisfaction at the manner in which the discussion was conducted. He said, he rejoiced to see that those who prepare their exercises so well in the Association, are the very ones who stand first in their Class.	Rufus McCarthy, Cor. sec.
----------------- •
“Alfred the Great,”—A historical sketch of the life and times of Alfred the Great, read before the St. Edward’s Literary Association, by its author Mr. J. Shannahan. The article is full of information and is well written for a subject which naturally gives very limited scope to style’s display. The article is too long for publication in our paper, but we will thank the author for shorter historical sketches.
Catholic Telegraph, Cincinnati, Ohio.—This welcome visitor brings us, week after week, its tribute of interesting news. We cannot commend it too highly to the catholics of the West who may always find in its columns a very complete record of important religious events, as well as a fair statement and discussion of the questions at issue in the political world. Mr. T. A. Corcoran, A. M., one of Notre Dame’s graduates, has conse* crated to the Catholic Telegraph his talent and energy as assistant editor.
A Royal Auction—Maximilian’s Library Sold.—The library of the Emperor Maximilian was sold by a Leipzig auctioneer on the last day of January. Numerous purchasers had arrived from Vienna, Berlin, London, Paris, Munich, and even from America, to attend the sale. The highest price was paid for a book containing only eighty-four leaves, and printed at Mexico in the year 1543; it was sold for $805, no doubt because it is the first book printed in America which contains on its title page the year of its publication. Another small volume of about two hundred pages, and printed three years afterward, in the same city, was sold for $484, and a similar volume for $300. A volume entitled “Regula Christiana” Mexico, 1547, was sold for $461; “Manera de Racer las Processiones” 32 pages, without year, for $310; the magnificent “ Prayer-book of Ann of Brittany,”, for $176 ; smaller prayer-books at various prices, from $60 to $80; a set of the “Revue des Deux Mondes’* for $225. The sum total obtained at the auction

224
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
exceeded by far the estimates made by the auctioneers and librarians previous to the sale.
Every volume containing the Emperor’s autograph brought,, at least ten dollars. The books containing Carlotta’s autograph were purchased by the agents of the King of Belgium.
M. S. & N. I. RAILROAD.
Going East:.
Leave South Bend, 8:35 a. m. “	“	11:10 a.	m.
“	“	8:06 p.	m.
“	“	12:19 a.	m.
Arrive at Toledo, 4:26 p. m.
“	“	5:00 p.	m.
“	“	1:55 a.	m.
“	“	6:15 a.	m.
Going West :
Leave South Bend, 6:12 a. m.
“	“	6:40 p.	m.
“	“	2:42 a.	m.
“	“	4:10 a.	m.
Arrive at Chicago, 10:00 a.m.
“	“ 10:00 p. m.
“	“ 6:30 p. m.
“	Laporte, 5:48 a. .m
^AINT ^rARY'S ^kCADEMY.
St. Mary’s, March 14th, 1869.
Arrivals.
March 13th.—Miss E. Randall, Warsaw, Ind.
Table of Honor, Sr.
Misses A. Ewing, E. Ewing, A. Carmody, M. Morrill, M. Carraher, A. Darcy, M. Alexander, E. Kirwin, M. Kirwin, L. and E. Lonergan, N. Sherburn.
Honorable Mention, Sr.
Graduating Glass.—Misses K. Livingston, K. Cunnea.
First Senior Glass.—Misses J. Hyndes, A. Carmody, A. Radin, N. Tabor, E. McManaman, A. Mulhall, M. Walton, J. Dobson, M. Claffey.
Second Senior Class.—Misses M. Edwards, C. Thompson, E. Bland, R. Rettig, C. Foote, E. Lindsay, L. English, N. Leoni, A. Carpenter, E. Carr, N. Thomson, H. Gleeson, N. Wilder, K. Carpenter, W. Corby, K. Armstrong, B. Gardiner, K. Young. E. Rogers, E. Livingston, L. Leoni.
Third- Senior Class.—Misses E. Williams, E. Ruger, 3L Shirland, S. Beebe, R. Joslin, M. Dillon, E. Hill, L. Marshall, H. Gill.
First Preparatory.—Misses A. Mast, S. O’Brien, 31. Foote, E. Darst, J. Cochrane, E. Henry,
. Second Preparatory.—Misses H. Sprochnle, J. Davis, M. Clune, M. Minor, J. Denny, K. Moore, N. Greer.'
Third Preparatory.—Misses R. and C. Hoerber,
M. Rumely, M. Coffey, A. Matthews, E. Seiler, J. Kent, E. Whitfield, R. and R. Fox.	-
Instrumental Music. f 1	—
First Class.—Misses C. Foote, J. Hynds. Second Div.—Misses M. Shirland, A. Mulhall, K. Livingston. Second Glass.—Misses M. Walton, N. Thomson, L. Chamberlain. Second Div.—Misses K. Carpenter, T. Vanhorn. Third Class.—Misses M. Edwards, L. Barnett, E. Kirwin, L. Chouteau, A. Rettig. Second Div.—Misses M. McManaman, E. Livingston. Fourth Class.—Misses A. Bryson, A. Carmody, M. Tuberty. Second Div.— Misses E. Rogers, B. Gardner, L. Bass, M. Sprochnle. Fifth Class.—Misses F. Stevens, N. Wilder, L. Thomson, 31. Bader, A. Dingers. Second Div.— Misses K. Armstrong, S. Gleeson. Sixth Class.— Misses J. Davis, M. Byers, I. Wilder, 31. O’Toole, R. Robinson, E. Seiler. Second Div.—Misses A. Clark, A. Byrnes. Seventh Glass.—Misses E. Henry, E. Williams, E. Gill. Eighth Glass—Misses N. Gross, 31. Gildersieve, R. Leoni, R. Kent, F. Taylor. Guitar.—3Iisses N. Tabor, E. Williams, L. English, C. Hoerber, K. 3Iorris;
. French.
First Glass.—MissesK. Livingston, A. Carmody, Second Glass.—3Iisses A. Walker, J. Hynds, A. Alexander, K. Carpenter, 31. Shirland. Second Div.—3Iisses 31. Twoomey, K. Cunnea. Third Class.—3Iisses A. Thomson, N. and L. Leoni, A. Cunnea. Fourth Class.—3Iisses E. Rogers, S. Vanhorn, N. Gross.
German.
First Class.—3Iisses 31. Rumely, R. and F. Fox. Drawing.
3Iisses L. Chamberlain, M. Alexander, A. Carpenter, E. Carr, F. Grimes, A. Heckman, A. Ewing, E. Kirwin, 31. Lasson.
Table of Honor, Jr.
3Iisses T. Wilder, A. Clark, L. Jones, B. 3Iyers, B. Frensdorf, A. Robson, L. James, J. Walton, R. Canoll, A. Longley, K. Fulman, B. Wilson, B. Henry.	.
Honorable Mention.
Second Preparatorg.—3Iisses G. and 31. Hoover, R. Leoni, M. Durant. Third Preparatory.—3Iisses 31. Letourneau, L. Thomson, A. Byrne, L. 3IcNam-ara. First Class Jr.—3Iisses F. Taylor, K. and E. Price, A. Longley, M. Roberts.