The Scholastic.
►	pEVOTED TO THE
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 4, 1873.	Number B.
Brownson’s Review.
We have received Brownson’s Review for October, but have as yet only glanced over its pages. It contains the following articles: Refutation of Atheism; Protestantism Antichristian; Father Thebaud’s Irish Race; The Woman Question; The Christophers, or Christ-Bearers; At Home and Abroad; Colonel H. S. Hewitt, M. D; Literary Notices and Criticisms.
This number completes the first volume of the Review, and we are glad to learn that the success the Review has hitherto had justifies Dr. Brownson in continuing it. Long may he live, with his vigorous mind and fluent pen, to personally superintend the Review; all of the articles, and lit erary notices and criticisms, he has thus far written himself. We sincerely hope he may gather around him a number of writers of his own stamp, who may continue this work when he shall go to his reward. Dr. Brownson should make the Review an “institution.” We give an extract from one of the articles. The writer has just been speaking of the charge made by non-Cathblics that the Chui ch is in league with despots to oppress the people:
“ One would naturally suppose that the old charge against the Church of being leagued with despots would be suffered now to drop, and that all fear of the Pope would be dissipated. Stripped of all his temporal possessions, abandoned by all the sovereigns of this world, who openly act on the principle that might makes right, and held a prisoner in his palace, what is there in the Pope for the enemies of Catholicity to dread ? What, in fact, is wanting to render the victoiy of Protestantism complete? Why need it any longer distrust or make war on Catholics? Yet we do not see that Protest mts anywhere abate their hostility, or become one whit less afraid of them. We see the proofs of it in the auti-Catholic legislation and measures of Prussia, of Switzerland, of protestantized Italy, revolutionary Spain, and the miserable republics south of us on this continent, where the influence of onr own republic has been most hostile to religion and the peace and order of society.
‘‘ All these things prove, first, that the Protestant party do not, as they pretend, oppose the Church for purely political reasons, for she has no political power or connection; and, second, that they really here and everywhere oppose her because she is Catholic in her teaching, asserts truth as binding on the intellect and the conscience, in direct contra-' diction to their doctrine of the indifference of truth and falsehood, or that every man has the natural right to be of any religion, if not Catholic, or of no religion, as he pleases. The governments support them, because their principle frees them from all moral restraints in the exercise of power, or obligation to the precepts of the law of God, whether promulgated by natural reason or by revelation. It is
worthy of remark that the governments have been the first revolutionists in the modern world by their rejection of the juz gentium, or law of nations, preserved and proclaimed in universal tradition, and substituting for it international law founded in convention, and which has no binding force on the national conscience, as we have previously shown. They encouraged, aided and abetted the reformers in thsir rebellion against the spiritual authority, the only firm basis of secular authority, and set their subjects the example of rebellion, which they might follow under pretext of political and social reforms, with even less scruple, against themselves. Their subjects have done so, and against them the governments have no moral authority, for they themselves have denied and as far as in their power broken down all moral authority, and left themselves only physical force with which to protect themselves; and it is only through some remains of the Catholic tradition of law and order among the people, that they have any physical force even. Let the army fraternize with the rebels, as we have seen it do more than once, and where is even the- physical force of the governments ?
“These results are not merely logical conclusions, but logical conclusions historically verified. We perfectly agree with most Protestant authors who treat the question, that the reformers did not foresee the consequences of their revolt against the Papacy. They did not. understand the strictly dialectic character of Christianity, and that no link in the chain could be broken without breaking the chain; nor did they understand that revolt against the external spiritual authority involved in its historical developments revolt against all authority, both spiritual and secular, both external and internal. They did not understand the maxim, ex nihilo nihil fit, or that a denial that simply denies, without opposing an affirmative truth or principle to the matter denied, can terminate only in universal negation. But such has been, as we have seen, the termination of the Protestant revolt. It opposed no truth or affirma-tive'principle to the Papacy, and had nothing to fall back upon when the Papacy or the Church was cast off. This .could not be avoided, for the Church teaches all truth.”
Rscmtion Chats with the Boys. ’
No. i.
INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY.
Let us talk this morning for a few minutes, fellow-students, upon an important subject—your own individuality. You have heard read in the refectory, from day to day, those noble lessons of true politeness. Everywhere you meet this admonition, “ Be a gentleman;” yet the incentive to this gentlemanly suavity seems to be lost sight of, or at least not insisted upon. What I shall say will not be as one in

42
THE SCHOLASTIC.
high authority, but as a student with you. With you here on the playground, in the college halls, and earnestly with you in the great cause of intellectual advancement. The one thing you have most to fear here at college is the loss of your own individuality, and upon it rests the whole superstructure of your education. You cannot work earnestly without an all-abiding sense of the motive which impels you. It is an inherent property of our nature, this necessity for an incentive to action; and the incentive which should urge you forward through your whole life is the knowledge that you are a man. Without it you will fail,— aye, even here on the threshold. Here, you have come far away from home and all its gentle restraining influences; you are apt to think that you are eliminated, for the time being, from the necessity of acting the part of a man, apt to fancy yourself a boy, and to recall again your crude childish notions of your prefects and professors, and to regard them as schoolroom tyrants rather than friends, and the lessons they assign you as odious tasks from which if you can escape you have gained so much. True, a moment’s reflection will show: you such is not the case, but you don’t stop for that moment to think ; and all the time you go on drowning your individuality and unfitting instead of educating yourself for the part you will shortly be called upon to play in what you will find to be no comedy but a stern, real drama. There is aftendency in the human mind to indolence, which leads man to shirk responsibility; and if you can make yourself believe that here in college you have no social responsibility you are very apt to do it. But it is false; you have a responsibility resting upon you, and you cannot escape it: the necessity of doing right because it is right.
College is but a. miniature world,—the rehearsal where you prepare for the great play; and if you rehearse but indifferently here, is it reasonable-to suppose you will do any better when you come‘;before the audience? You may be stimulated by the glare and tinsel, but depend upon it a careful manager would never risk you. One of the very worst and most injurious ideas you can form is that experience is your best teacher. You are told almost every day that it is true; I assure you it is false, and they who tell you it is true never stop to think. Experience is not an educator. It is but an ultimatum, if you have disregarded your legitimate instructors, and never aids you save by humiliating you. True, you are taught; but of what avail is your experience, as the same train of circumstances seldom or never recurs. Your bought wisdom becomes like Franklin’s whistle, bought dear and utterly useless. If you wait for experience to teach you politeness, to teach you responsibility, to teach you that you are not a cipher but a man—you will many a time, in the midst of tribulations, regret that you had not learned the lesson earlier and from a legitimate teacher.
Learn then to be a man—and politeness, everything else in fact,'follows as a consequence. Develop your individuality, and gain the confidence of your superiors, and schoolrestraint ceases to become irksome. One who has any knowledge of human nature soon recognizes the kind of discipline necessary in each particular case. E iter a schoolroom with me where all the little fellows are strangers, and at first you cannot distinguish them apart, but ere a week has gone by you can with ease point' out the best and the worst boy in the school. Each little fellow has been developing his individuality before you, and though their outward appearance be the same you seldom make a mistake. Them
let me repeat it, develop your individuality here. Follow no multitude, and never h ave it possible for anyone to mis-take either yourself for another or your actions for another’s.1 T. A. D.
Hot Gerlach on fins IZ.
In a speech delivered in the German Parliament, by Herr Gerlach, President of the Court of Appeals, he said, speaking of our Holy Father, Pius IX:
“ Let us consider the present Pope and the Emperors in their respective powers. On the one side we see Prussia victorious, and the German Empire, into which these laws (those against the Church) have put confusion; we see in Prussia both the Catholic and Evangelical Churches reduced to a state of slavery, and on the other side ecclesiastical liberty reigning in the remaining States of Germany.
“Gentlemen, you have already taken into consideration the disorders that will spring from the condition of affairs. Prussia, with all her millions, and the aid and friendship of two Emperors, one of whom is a Catholic, is in open opposition to Pius TX. If you wish to form an idea of the Pope’s weakness, look at me: I am an old man, and Pius IX is three years older than.1 am. Once upon a time, Pius gave himself over to the Liberals, who soon drove him from Home, and turned the Holy City, to use the Pope’s own words, “into a den of beasts.” He has now been officially despoiled of his temporal power, he has neither army nor money, and he lives upon alms.
“Well, for all this, the old man reigns over 200,000,000 of men, and has a greater power than any of his predecessors ever possessed. The unity"which is shown by the’ Catholic Church is wonderful, and lie finds obedience, even in this Empire, from thousands and hundreds of thousands, from Metz to the frontiers of Russia, and from Lake Constance to the shores of the Baltic. In the midst of his agony, Pius conquers souls, and he is the only sovereign who is obeyed, and who holds firmly to the Cross, and the Cross always means victory.”
Death, of an Eminent fainter.
Sir Edwin Landseer, the celebrated painter, died on the first of this month, aged 71 years. We take the following from a daily paper:
“Sir Edwin Landseer, R. A., was bom in London in 1802, and was at the ripe age of 71 years at the time of his death. He was not more than 14 years of age when he began to exhibit great promise in drawing. He excelled from the outset in the painting of anim .Is, and it was in this school that he earned his brilliant and world-wide reputation. His best pictures are known wherever engravings have found their way. “ A Highland Breakfast,” “ The Drover’s Departure,” “ A Fireside Party,” “The Angler’s Guard,” “The Old Shepherd's Chief Mourner,” “ Comical Dogs'” and others are as familiar in this country as the prints of “ Washington Irving and His Friends ” and “The First .Prayer in Congress.” The largest collection of Landseer’s paintings is in the Sheepshanks Gallery in South Kensington, London. H: also entered the arena of sculpture; the four lions in bronze at the base of the Nelson column in Trafalgar Square are of his design-ng, and he exhibited a bronze figure of “ The Stag at i
THE SCHOLASTIC.
43
* _______________________________________________________:_________ I	Bay” at the Royal Academy Exhibition of 1866, which
|	comm tnded great admiratiou. Landseer was elected Presi-
I „ dent of the Riyal Acdeiny after the deith of Sir Charles J	E istlake, in 1865. but he could n it be persuaded to accept
,	the p< sition. The honor was a superfluous one in his
case.”	-
child three years old, an infant of flesh and blood, bone and constitution, goes out with shoes as thin as paper, cotton socks, legs unc >vered to the knees, neck bare, an exposure which would disable the nurse, kill the mother outright, and make the father an invalid for weeks. .
Humors of ths Telegraph. -
Our telegraphers at least will enjoy the humors of telegraphy.
Not long since a countryman came into a telegraph office in Bangor, Maine, with a message, and asked that it be sent immediately. The operator took the message as usual, put bis instrument in communication with its destination,ticking off the signals upon the key, and then according to the rule of the office, bung the message-paper on the hook with others that had been previously sent, that at night they might all be filed for preservation. The man was lounging around some time evidently unsatisfied. “At last,” says the narrator of the incident, “ his patience was exhausted, and lie belched out, ‘Ain’t you going to send that disjiatch?’ The operator politely informed him that he had sent it. 'Noyerain’t,’ replied the indignant man; ‘there it is now on the hook.’”
So far as the exact use of language was concerned, the man was right. Still more ludicrous mistakes occur. Thus, the German papers reported that at Carlsruhe, toward the close of the late war, an aged mother came to the telegraph
*
office carrying a dishful of sauerkraut, which she desired to have telegraphed to Rastadt. Her son must receive the kraut by Sunday.. The op. rator could not convince her . that the telegraph was not capable of such a performance.
" How could so many soldiers have been sent to France by telegraph?” she asked, and finally departed, grumbling.
‘ Almost every operator meets with iqually amusing instances. One recently related the following incident:
“ A gentleman came to my office to send a message, and after writing it waited, as people often do at small offices, to see it sent. I called ‘ Office,’ and the operator at the
other end of the line came to the key and said, ‘ Busy— I	wait a minute.’ So I leaned back in my chair to wait, when
1	the gentleman said, ‘ Have you sent it? ’ I said ‘ No; they
‘	. say they are too busy—to wait a minute;’ whereupon he
! \j\^^said, looking surprised, ‘Why, I didn’t hear them;’ and ' p then added, brightening up as if he had thought of the rea-1 son, ‘but I’m a little deaf in one earl’ I think I managed J	to keep a straight face till he left, but it was hard work.”
1	Why do Children Die ?—In answer to this question,
■ . the Medical Recorder.holds the following language: “The reason why children die, is because they are not takeh-care ‘ of. From the day of birth they are stuffed with water, ■ suffocated in hot rooms, and steamed in hot. clothes. So
much for in-doors. When permitted to breathe a breath of pure air once a week in summer, and once or twice during s the cold months, only the nose is permitted to peer into, daylight. A little later they are sent out with no clothes at all on the parts of the body which most need protection. Bare legs, bare necks,. girted middles, with an inverted umbrella to air and chill the.other parts of the body. A
-J - stout, strong man goes out on a cold day with gloves and I - over coat, woollen stockings and thick.double-soled boots jlf	with cork between and rubbers over. The^same day a
Wb doubt if there are more than a veiy few amongst us even ot the most intelligent on these subjects, who appreciate what strides international exhibitions have taken in twenty years. The space they have occupied will give wine idea, and we give the following statement:
-	. Acres.
London in 1851...........................    .....	2)£
Paris in 1855...................................      25^
Lond' >n in 1862..........................  .*....	45%
Paris iu 1867......,..............................	169%
Vienna in 1873....................................   570%
■A Gentleman.—Show us a man who can quit the society of the young, and take pie isure in listening to the kindly voice of age; show us a man that covers the faults of others with a mantle of charity; show us the man that bows as politely and gives the street as freely to the millionaire as to the poor sewing girl; who shuns the company of such as congregate at public places to gaze at the fair sex, or make unkind remarks of the passing poor girl; show us the man who abhors the libertine; who scorns the ridiculer of his mother’s sex, and the exposure of womanly reputation; show us the man who never forgets for an instant the delicacy and respect due a woman, as a woman in any condition or class, and you show us a true gentleman.
The way nails came to be designated by the word “ penny,” as regarding their size, is thus explained: In he early history of our country all-nails were wrought or forged, by hand; our currency then was pounds, shillings, pence and farthings. Each sized nails were sold at so many pennies per hundred. The usual way was to ask for four-penny nails, six-penny, ten-penny, etc. Hence.in mercantile circles the sizes are. designated by the price in pennies per hundred. When cut-nails were introduced (he sizes were still designated by pennies; and tbishas been continued, and in all probability will be as long m nails are used.—J. E. E., Pennsylvania. “	.
The enfant terrible of a Washington family, whose sister Eliza is a shining belle in society, was allowed to sit near one of the distinguished guests at a dinner-party given by his father, the other day, and in the midst of the merriment he startled the company by proposing the conundrum, “Why is father like the devil?” A painful pause ensued, and as no one ventured to answer, he shouted out, “ Because he is the father of Lize! ” Probably no boy in the country was ever put to bed quicker than he on that occasion..
A cowardly fellow having kicked a newsboy the other day for pestering him to buy an evening paper, the lad waited till another boy accosted the “gentleman,” and then shouted in the hearing of all by-standers: “ It’sno use to try him, Jim; he can’t read. ”	-
It is said that glycerine mixed with the water in steamengine boilers prevents the deposition of lime salts, and consequently protects the boilers from incrustatio**-
44 •
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: One year......................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Abb the walnuts all cracked ?
What about the Philharmonics?
There was a Fair in Niles this week.
Wednesday, the 1st inst., a splendid day.
The Fair of Laporte County terminated Friday.
The slaters are busy on the roof of the new church.
Conundrum.—What has become of “The Standard?”
The first meeting of the Conference was held Wednesday morning, the 1st inst. at the usual hour.
The Crisis has affected some of the large manufactories in South Bend, and has been the cause of several workmen being discharged.
The ladies of the St. Patrick’s congregation. South Bend, will give, we hear, an oyster supper in Goods’ Hall, next Wednesday evening.
We have received the first number of a paper published in Newark, N. J., called The Catholic Citizen. It shows ability and energy, and we welcome it among our exchanges.
St. Edward’s Day, the Patronal of Very Rev. Father Superior General, coming on Monday, the Entertainment instead of taking place on the evening before, or vigil, will be held in Washington Hall on Saturday evening.
We have received a splendid lithograph from Mr. Donahoe of Boston,—a large portrait of Father Burke; and from Mr. Thos. Kelly of New York a large engraving of the Illustrious Sons of Ireland. Both are excellent specimens
. of art.
We have received from Father Letourneau a splendid specimen of what can be done in the pomological line out at St. Joseph’s Farm. The apple is thirteen inches and a half in circumference. We can accommodate several more of the same sort.
We welcome the Porter County Vidette among our exchanges. It is well edited, chock full of news, and hasn’t as far as we can see a single one of the objectionable ads. which disgrace some of our country as well as city papers. It is a live paper, and a good representative of the go-ahead town of Valparaiso, where we have many good friends. It is now in the seventeenth volume of its age.
Blackstone in his Commentaries on the Laws of England lays it down as an indisputable legal maxim that “ de minimis non curat lex,” which, as classical scholars tell us, signifies in our own vernacular, the law does not pare for the minima. Some one hereabouts, in his commentaries on local customs, reverses this maxim, and holds that “delege non curant minimi” which, he says,means that the minims dont care for the law. •
Italy.
One of our exchanges has a reprint article from a correspondent in Rome who asserts that “ Italy is now fairly emitted to the very first rank of second-class powers.”
He then goes on to show why.
One reason is because “an army of three hundred thousand men is maintained on a war footing, and the naval force is superior to that of Spain and Austria.” But he forgets to add that the Government of Victor Emmanuel is totally bankrupt, and is plunging deeper and deeper in debt every year, and that the major part of the army would just as lief turn their bayonets against Victor Emmanuel as defend him. As to the three hundred thousand men being kept on a war footing, that may be true if by “ war fooling” is meant the names of conscripts on paper, many of whom are at home, and know not as much about handling a gun as our boys do who go shooting ducks on the lake.
“ To this,” continues the correspondent, “ is added the politico-moral influence which the country is now exercising over Europe.” The politico- moral influence is rather a difficult matter to estimate. But we opine that a country with a bankrupt government, an army that can’t be tried upon, a king who, placed on his throne of Italy by Napoleon, now truckles to Bismark in order to keep it during the remnant of his pitiful life, has not much politico-moral influence, whatever it may mean, in Europe or anywhere else.
“ Italy,” continues the correspondent, with that concise knowledge of history which, like reading and writing in Dogberry’s opinion, we presume ‘comes by nature,’at least to correspondents from foreign parts,—“Italy has been the first to resist clerical encroachments, and is bearing the brunt of Papal opposition.”
Passing over Lhe “first” as a matter of ho importance, though we have heard of Robespierre and others of the French Revolution at the end of last century resisting “clerical encroachments,” we remark that the phrase “clerical encroachments ” is very good. It soundswell: the consonants of the first word cau be sharply and savagely pronounced, while the o sound in the second may produce a fine effect uttered ore rotundo; besides, those “clericals” are always encroaching—have always been encroaching from the time St. Peter “ encroached “ on the Roman Emperor by being crucified with his head downward, and St. Paul “ encroached ” by having his head cut off. In Italy the “ clerical encroachments” have been enormous. The Holy Father “ encroached ” by being -deserted by a traitor Emperor who has gone to his doom, and by being despoiled of his temporal possessions and kept a prisoner in the Vatican by a renegade king, who by an inscrutable providence is still allowed to cumber the earth. The Bishops have “encroached” by being deprived of the revenues of their dioceses; the Religious have “ encroached ” by being turned out of house and home, their property confiscated without one baioccho of recompense. Verily, these “clerical encroachments ” ought to be put a stop to. And no doubt the Italian people will soon follow the example of the great French nation, and rousing up from their demented state will throw off the yoke of a tyrannical Government which in the name of liberty perpetuates the most outrageous crimes of injustice against a Christian nation.
“ Brunt of Papal- opposition” is also good. Papal opposition is, we presume, the opposition given by the Pope. - lu

1
THE SCHOLASTIC.
45
the eyes of the corespondent that opposition cannot amount to much, as it consists in bearing with patience every kind of injustice andinsu It, and praying to God to be delivered . from his enemies. Prayers, pilgrimage’, almsgiving, and such like, are doubtles s mere trumpery in the estimation of the correspondent, and Italy therefore might well bear the brunt of such opposition without claiming to be iq “the very first rank of second-rate powers.”
. And yet, mayhap, prayer may have some effect. The great change in the public opinion in France shows it has, if any sensible man wanted proof of the efficacy of prayer, and it may, indeed, be beyond the strength of a second-rate •power, even in the very first class, to withstand the brunt of prayer, or Papal opposition.
• There were several other bright remarks.and observations made by the sapient correspondent, but we do not care about following him any longer. Indeed had we not wanted “ to gay a few words” we would not have noticed him, as he is one of a numerous tribe who disgrace the institutions of our country by daring to compare the bastard republics and so called “liberal ” monarchies of Europe to our great Republic, and who do not blush with shame to assert that we of this Republic should sympathize with plunderers, house-burners and assassins, simply because these plunderers, house-burners and assassins call themselves republicans, and style the state of anarchy to which they invariably reduce the country that is cursed with them,’a republic.
All Around.
Look out for squalls.
Students still continue to come, many from distant parts.
The Commercial Department is extraordinarily large.
The weather was quite fresh on Wednesday evening and Thursday morning. Overcoats in demand.
The orchard is nearly stripped of its much appreciated fruit. Where! oh! where is it going?
Who says the Freshmen are to be fed on fresh milk and eggs ? That would be too fresh.
Bro. Thomas is doing a go >d business,—so much so that he has to have an assistant.	,
The Notre Dame Amusement Club has reorganized with a large number.
E. D. is the life of the play-hall while he is there. He is quite a “ cod.”
“John” and “Will ” keep a first-rate establishment on Fifth Avenue.	•
The Toledo race-boat is coming on a special canal which ' is being now dug forthat purpose.
A sail-boat has been making regular trips (and sometimes tips) on the lake for the past week.
Prof. Lyons and his Thespians are working hard to get up something nice for St. Edward’s Day.
Tre Circulating Libraiy was opened on the twentyeighth ult. It has a great many patrons already, but it . could have more.	.
CoRRESP«NDENTt “ Z,”'in the last issue, would, unconsciously perhaps, remind us of the “Little Empty Chair,” which we used to delight to hear sung when we were young and (we were just going to say foolish—but we won’t) happy.
Dancing was enjoyed to quite a considerable extent during the rough weather. Many thanks are due to Ed. Kimm for furnishing the boys with music, to which they tripped the light fantastic toe.
How beautifully do the notes of the clarionet resound through the College halls! During the past few days the words of the poet have been impressed most deeply on the ’ minds of some:
“ Music hath power to soothe the heart of a savage Burst a rock or rend a head of cabbage.”
There is a man in St. Joseph County who has moved so often that whenever a covered wagon comes near his house, his chickens all march up and fall on their backs and cross their legs, ready to be tied and carried to the the next stopping-place.
. List of Students—Continued.
Walter Robinson, E. J. McLaughlin, James O'Connor, Walter English, Sherman Hitt, John S. Burdett, T. C. Logan, Gabriel Summers, Charles Hake, Walter W. Page, Frank J. Weisenberger, Edward O’Connell, Philip Fitzpatrick, Entered
Pensecola, Florida.
• Clinton, Iowa.
Detroit, Michigan.
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Greensburgh, Indiana.
Charleston, West Virginia, Washington, D. C.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Nashville, Tennessee.
Defiance, Ohio.
Summit, Illinois.
Washington, D. C. ‘ to date, 373.
Our Minim Friends.
We have always been a warm advocate of the Minim element in onr population, and more so since one of them hafe succeeded in going completely through the mill, and coming out a graduate at the large end of the horn. The expansive powers of body and mind which the Minim Department has evinced in the person of thisgentlemm speak volumes for the fostering care of Alma Mater. He is but the first of a long line. We already see another Minim graduate looming up in the dim haze of futurity. And we make a note of the fact that our Minims will not, as a general thing, secure their diplomas by diplomacy, but by a severe course of honest exertion and laborious study. We would notjflatter them, however, but merely encourage them. We are glad to see their base-ball club reorganized and in the full vigor o f of active service. Some may think that it is a little dub for a cent, but we feel assured that it is a great one for a century—and a great century at that—the Nineteenth, if w* are not mistaken, and we hope that some of our Minims will live long enough to poke their aged noses into the Twentieth and see what it looks like. As for us, we don't take stock in the Twentieth Century. One Insurance Policy would be a poor speculation if we did. The great question; “^Vhat is the Expectation of life ?” will have been answered for us long before the year 1900. Our.Term of Interest will have expired, our commission will be recalled, our Equation of time will have been meted out, our profit and loss account will have been closed into stock ere that epoch is reached. But here is the report from the base-ball club:
4G
THE SCHOLASTIC.
QUICKSTEP BASE BALL CLUB.
The reorganisation of the Quickstep B. B. C. took place Tuesday, September 15th. Brother Albert was elected Director, by acclamation; the election of the other officers was then proceeded with, and resulted as follows:
John O’Meara, President.
Frank Carlin, Vice-President.
Colly Clark, Secretary.
Tommy Hooley, Treasurer.
Ralph Goisen and C.Walsh,Censors.-
Frank Carlin, Field- Captain 1st Nine.
C. Me Kinnou, Field-Captain 2nd Nine.
CoLLy ClabK, Secretary.
Boll of Hoaor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
H. Ackhoff,	’ W. Ball,	J. Berry, .
J. Burnham,	C. Berdel, •	J. Browne,
M. Bastarache,	C. Bowman,	A. Baca,
H. Clark,	M. Caldwell,	H. Cassidy,
J. Crummey,	G. Crummey,	J. Callery,
W. Clarke,	P. Cooney,	J. D. Christy,
H. Dehner,	T. Daily,	E. Dunn,
W. Dodge,	C. Dodge,	J. Devine,
J. Dwyer,	J. Egan,	B. Evans,
J. Fairey,	M. Foley,	J. Fielding,
C. Franks,	C. Gamache,	J. Girard,
J. Grace,	J. Gregory,	T. Grier,
T. Gallagher,	J. Gillen,	E. Graves,
W. Hughes,	A. Horne,	E. Halpin,
P. Hennessy,	J. Hogan,	C. Hess,
V. Hansen, .	J. Hitchler,	T. Hansard,
P. Johnson,	J. Kelly.	J. Kennedy,
M. Keeler,	A. Kreicbgauer,	J. Lonergan,
P. Lilly,	J. Lyons,	J. McDonough,
,D. McGinniss, -	B. McGinniss,	T. McDonough,
J. McDermott,	E. McSweeney,	E. McCouniff,
M. McCouniff,	J. McManus,	M. McCullough,
M. McGovern,	T. Murphy,	J. Murphy,
L. Murphy,	J. R. Mullen,	J. L. Mullen,
S. Marks,	E. Monohan,	A. Martineau,
A. Mooney,	J. McMahon.	J. E. O’Brien.
P. O’Brien,	C. O'Connor,	P. O’Meara,
P. O’Mahony,	M. O’Dea,	P. O’Sullivan,
C. Proctor,	R. Pugh,	J. Rudge,
C. Spears,	H. T. Small,	H. P. Small,
F. Scrafibrd,	J. Trabbic,	J. Van Dusen,
W. Van’t Woud,	J. Ward,	J. Wolfe,
H.. Walker, _ •	C. Walter.	
	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. .	
W. Ames,	B. Baca,	J. Beegan,
J. Bennett,	W. Breen,	J. Buchanan,
W. Boulger,	B. Casey,	J. Cassella,
P. Corbet,	J. Caren,	J. Cullen,
J. Daley,	J. Dore,	R. Downey,
J. Ewing,	F. Egan,	F. Frazee,
' W. Gross,	D. Gorman,	B. Hersey,
M. Kinsella,	S. Kennedy,	W. Keilty,
L. Loser,	C. Lewis,.	B. Le Fevre,
J. McGrath,	G. McNulty,	J. McHugh,	»
W. McDevitt,	P. Moran,	W. Meyer,
F. Miller,	C. Nichols,	J. O'Connell,
A Potter,	E. Ratigan,	J. Rider,
A. Schmidt,	J. Soule,	J. Smith,
. L. Smith, 5	H. Shephard,	X. Wood.
Class Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate yeans, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory ; fourth week, Music, Fine • Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director of Studies.]
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26,1873.
Collegiate Department.
Senior Class.—T. A. Dailey, R. W. Staley, C. J. Dodge, W. W. Dodge, W. J. Clarke, C. Berdel, H. W. Walker, L. Hayes, D. E. Maloney, T. P. White.
Junior Class.—T. J. Murphy, J. H. Grier.
Sophomore Class.—W. Bastarache. C. W. Walter, C. M. Proctor, T. F. Gallagher, J. E. Hogan, E. 8. Monahan, J. Carefl.
Freshman Class.—A. J. Mooney, H. L. Dehner, B. Evans, T. Hansard, H. C. Cassidy, P. O'Mahony, J. J. Gillen, W. Breen.
Columbian Literary and. Debating1 Club.
Mit. Editor:—The members of the C. L. and D. Club assembled onTuesday evening, the 23J, for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing year. After a few remarks by the President, Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., he resigued his office as aciive President of the Club.
The election tesulted as follows:
Rev. A. Letnonnier, C. 8. 0.. Director.
Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M., President.
Prof. T. F. O’Mahony, A. M., Promoter.
William Gavitt, Vice-President.
P. O’Sullivan, Recording Secretary.
George W. Crummey, Corresponding Secretary.
James D. George, Treasurer.
W. W. Garr, Librarian.
N Horne, First censor.
P. Lilly, Second Censor.
John F. Burnham, Marshal.
We were sorry to lose the original leader of our little band, but have secured another efficient President. The Society is in a flourishing condition.
George W. Crummey, Corresponding Secretary.
St. Cecilia. Dhilomathean Association.
The second regular meeting was held Sept. 28d. At this meeting Messrs. J. Bergan, A. Schmidt and 0. Campeau presented themselves for membership, and after performing the requisite" conditions they were elected members* Then the regular exercises commenced. Master -W. Gross appeared gracefully in a difficult declamation, and B. Baca displayed his elocutionary powers in both English and Spanish selections. B. LeFevre read a well-written composition on “ Travelling.” Master J. Ewing represented, in a creditable manner,.the Historic Branch, by giving a Sketch of the Early Settlers of Maryland; it was very good, but Master Ewing would deserve more credit if he had given it from memoiy instead of reading from the manuscript. Charles Berdel, who was present, was called on for a declamation, which he gave in his usual happy style ,* his full rotund voice and graceful gestures were a source of
I
THE SCHOLASTIC.
47
wonder to the “new comers.’.’ .Bro. Marcellinus, the gen tlemanly Director of the Junior. Department, honored the Society with his presence, and expressed himself highly pleased with the exercises. Mr. William Gavitt was unanimously elected an honorary member.
At the third regular meeting, held Sept. 27tb, Master J. Cullen was elected a member. Declamations and Compositions then followed. After a few remarks by the President, on “ The Improvement of the Memory,” the meeting adjourned.
Wm. D. Kelly, Corresponding Secretary.
On last Sunday evening, a committee of the St. Cecilia -Philomatheans, consisting of Messrs. W. Breen, F. Egan, W. Gross, W. Meyers, and B. LeFevre, presented Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M., with a beautiful gold badge, as a token ■ of their.esteem and affection for him.
SAIN? MARY’S ACADMEY.
St. Mary’s Academy, September 24, 1873.
Miss Hughes, Miss Hughes,
Lizzie Neil, • Nellie Gross, Rose Spier,
. Marietta Ward, Julia Kearney, ...
. Lettie Ritchie, Josephine Locke, Sarah Liverney, Amelia Keeline, A. St. Clair, Rebecca Burke, Clara Nason, Carrie Wheaton, L. Pfeiffer, Belle Wade, Nellie McEwen, Ella Quinlan, Jennie Bennett, Myra Emmons, Ida McCool, Lulu Tinsley, Lulu Henroten, Dora Simons, Mattie Hoover, ’ Ellie O’Connor, . Lillie. Heckman, Nora McMahon,
• Maggie Coughlin, Ida Hatch, Mary Ayd, Amelia Boser, Augusta Mertz, Carrie Morgan, Anna Sweeney,
ARRIVALS.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
TABLET OF HONOR.
Mary Kearney, RoseDevoto, -Lilly West, N ellie Langdon, Bay Reynolds, Lillie Dent, Esther Boyce, Sarah Taylor, Hannah McMahon, M. Quan, Jennie Stimpson, Ella Sweeney, M. Riley, Agnes Conahan, Rebecca Woolman, Fannie Moore, Mary McGuire, Nellie Huber, Anna Minton, M. E. Roberts, . Kate Atwood, Clara Germain, Emma Ross, Fannie Taylor, Clara Miller, Mary Cummings, Henrietta Miller, Grace Tower, Rose McKeaver, Johanna Haney, Anna Garies, Anna Manz, Katie Irmiter, Kate Patterson, Emma Caldwell.
AnnieM. Clarke, Mary Brown, Libbie Black, Annie Lloyd, ■ Mary Wicker, Magaie Letourneau, Kittie Finley,' Julia Fanning, J. Walsh, Gertrude Phillips, Annie Maloney, Ella Bohn, Mae Johnson, Emma Wade, Mary Quill, Mary A. Roberts, Addie Roberts, Anna Nichols, Lydia Wyman, Rose Roscesco, Emma Colby, Emma Ives, Agnes Marantette, Jennie Kreigh, Laura Johnson, Lulu Kelly, Ella Mann, Cora Strathe, Ella Taylor, Estelle Dunbar, Fannie Gunzert, Fannie Larkins, Kate Engel,-Josie Adams,
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Graduating Class.—Misses R. Devoto, M. Brown, L. Black, and N. Langdon.	.
First Senior Class—A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, B. Reynolds, V. Ball, Lettie Ritchie, E. Haggerty, E. Boyce.
Second Senior.Class.—G.Phillips, R. Burt, E. Sweeny, EBohn, C. Wheaton.
Third Senior Class.—N. Ball, M. Quill, N. McEwen, F. Moore, B. Gaffney, Addie Roberts, L. Tinsley, K. Atwood.
First Preparatory Class.—C. Germain, D. Simonds, E. Ives, M, Hoober, F. Hoyt, M. CuiL-nins, T. Heckman.
• Second Preparatory Class.—N. McMahon, H. Miller, M. Coughlin, C. Strouthers, R. McKeever, E. Taylor, M. Ayd.
Third Preparatory Class.—A. Boser, A. Garies, F. Gunzert, A. Mertz, A. Manz, K. Irmiter, A. Sweeny, J. Adams, C. Morgan.	.
St. Angela’s Literary Society.
At the annual election of officers the following young ladies were chosen :—	.
President—Miss J. Kriegh.
Vice-President—Miss K. Casey. ’	* *
Secretary—Miss E. Taylor.	•
Librarian—Miss A. Mertz.	-	-	.
Treasurer—Miss N. McMahon.	. -
St. Agnes’ Literary Society
held its usual meeting, Sept. 24th, at which the following elec. ’ lion took place :	.
President— Miss M. A. Brown.	-.	•
Vice President—Miss L. Germain.	•
Treasurer—Miss N. O’Meara.	-
'Secretary- Miss M. Reynolds.	‘
Librarian—Miss M. Ewing.	’ r
An old lady upon taking her first ride in the cars,remarked when the train ran off the track, “Yon fetch up rather suddenly, don’t ye ? ”
It is a remarkable fact that the moment a woman writes, a letter she is frantic to put it in the post-office, although she may have been putting off the writing for six months.
A Western coroner makes no charge when he sits on a young man who parted his hair in the middle. He says that his personal satisfaction is enough, without the fee.
A missing man was lately advertised for, and described as having a Roman nose. He won’t be found. Such a nose as that will never turn up.	..
“ What should I talk about this evening ? ” asked a prosy speaker of one of his expected auditors. “ About a quarter of an hour would be just about the thing,” was the reply.
It is belit-ved that the paper which has the most genera] circulation among men is the paper of tobacco, but the paper which has the finest points and is most generally circulated among women is the paper of needles.
The Vermont Gazette wants to know—“ What is the use of dogs?” Let him wait until a man has hung aronnd his (jffice four days, reading exchanges and proffering good advice, and he’ll think of use for a dog.
Boarding house chicken-soup can be made, it is said, by hanging up a hen in the sun so that her shadow will fall in a pot of salt water. The only trouble is that on a cloudy day the soup is liable to be weak.
A gentleman handed up a ten-dollar bill in one of the Boston omnibuses, from which one fare, five cents, was to be taken. Look a’ here,” said the driver, down through the hole, ” which of these horses do you want to buy with this ten dollars?” “Well,” coolly replied the gentleman, “ I thought I might get both for that.”	_ u
48
®lic “^vt Upm,”
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription, $-20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.	.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave M abia for $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Mabia for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria for $50, in advance.
The postage of the AVE Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. •
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Kailroad, t is easy of access from all parts of the United States. ■
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, --------	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per.Session of five months, -	- 160 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	12	50
Use of Piano, - - -	-	-	•	-	-	-	-	-	-10	00
Use of Violin, -----------	2	00
Drawing, -	■	-	--	--	-	-	--	-15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5	00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra. -	--	--	--	--	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
■ Class Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Bev. A. IsSnOBlTIBB, C.S.C.
President.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
TBXBTP.TWO PAGES EVSBT MONTH.
8100 JPER, Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
ilmg Ohusahr,
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending Ono Dollar to the Editor,	•
•-	REV. WILLIAM BYRNE, .
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NILES I SOUTH BEND RR.
Leave Niles,
' Leave^South Bend,
44	44
Arrive South Bend,
GOING SOUTH.
6.50 a m. Arrive South Bend,
9 35 a.m	“	“
.4.50 p.m.	“	“
GOING NORTH. •
8.40 a.m. Arrive Niles, -
11.45 a.m.	“
6.30 p.m.	“
SUNDAY TRAINS.
9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend,
5.30 p.m. |	“	“
S. G, Agent, Sonjh Bend.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
AUTUHN ARRANGEMENT.
fJIRAINS now leave South Bend asfollows
GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.	Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a.m	
“	“	12 25 p.m.	44	“	4 05 a. m
“	“	9.15 p. m.	44	“	1 35 p. m
“	“	12 35 a.m.	44	“	5.30 p. m
“	“	8.20 p. m.		Runs to Elkhart.
“	“	4.35 p. m.		
GOING	WEST.	
Leave Sonth Bend 4 53 p. m.	Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. m	
“ •	“	2 55 a m.	4 a	“	6.50 a. m
“	“	5.00 a. m.	44	“	8.20 a. m
“	“	605 p m.	44	“	9.40 p. m
“	“	6.37 a. m.	41	“	10.30 a. m
“	“	8.20 a. m.	44	“	12.30 p. m
Making connection with all trains West and North. •	'
49“ For full details, see the.Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.	•	'
49“ Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes aster than South Bendtime.____
J. H DEVEREUX. General Manager,'Cleveland, Ohio. CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J W. Cary, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.	.
J. S.Nellis, ticket Agent,South Bend.
J, M. TolciTard, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
■ To Lafayette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a. m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a. m.: 9.25 p. m
Freights. 1.00 a.m ; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line
flJr'RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line '
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo. '
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation.
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, III., ana Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m, ♦4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. J7:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Ex cent Saturday. B Dail y. S Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pnllman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, •
■	CHICAGO'.
j. c. mcmullin, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
-	7 30 a.m
10.15 a.m 5.30 p.m
-- 9.20 a.m 12 25 pm 7.10 p m
- 10.00 a.m 6.30 p.m
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago. Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New _ York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 1130 a. m* 2d irain	“	“	5.15 p. m	“	“	6.41 a. m*
3rd train	“	•*	’	9.00 p. m	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Conneciions at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mann-field with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.""
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F R. MYKH8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago. •
♦ Second day.