The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 25,1874.	Ntmber 5.
JNO. HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG, City Judge.	Notaby Public. p~AGERTY & TONG,	. ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW, REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines. COLLECTIONS SOLICITED. No. O Odd. Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana. o24-ly	NICAR & Co.,	-	_ * HARDWARE MERCHANTS, 118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH REND, INDIANA’ HEADQUARTERS FOR	’ Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc., Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, "etc.-, _ o24-tf
	-y NICAR,	. DEALER IN HARDWARE^ 91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. iKr. SORTS OF Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc. —ALSO— • ‘	‘ Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. o24-tf
Before going elsewhere, go to . TD S. PECKS,	_ , .	. ru ,	Dealer in HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.	
	Jy£RS. C. S. STOVER, MILLIjNER, 129 Michigan, Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana. Dealer in Millinery Goods, Hats, Bonnets, Laces, Etc. ^"The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call. ’	024-Jan 1
p J. HOLLAND, & Co., *	Wholesale Manufacturers of HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS, '	—ALSO— . WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES. 1OO MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.	
	PLIGHT & FAIRFIELD,	. JEWELLERS, South Bend, - - - Indiana. Solicit the Patronage of the Students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's CONFIDENT IN THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK, . None Can Fail to be Suited. ^"Particular attention given to repairing fine Jewelry and Watches.	o24-3m
p E. CUMMINS, *	- DENTIST, No. 96 Michigan Street,' -	- South Bend, Indiana. (Over Wyman’s.)	’	o24-lm	
	Q.EORGE HEHR, . FASHIONABLE TAILOR, AND GENERAL DEALEB IN	. Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings. No. ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up Staiis.)	o24-tf
Do you want a drive ? Go to JJEN COQUILLARD’S	- LIVERY STJNBLES, ..	Corner of Michigan and Washington Streets, South Bend, Indiana. .	.	. o24-2m	
	THE KNOBLOCK STORE, 03 WASHINGTON St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, IND., ■ Is the Place For all Kinds of CHOICE FRUITS (FOREIGN and DOMESTIC), —ALSO—	'	’	. CHOICE BRANDS of CIGARS and TOBACCO,	- Cheaper than at any other place in the dty. o24-lm
^UTHE STUDENTS' OFFICE’.!^ '	-pfENRY BLUM,	~	_ WHOLESALE AND BETAIL DEALER IN CIGARS, TOBACCOS, PIPES, Etc., No. 54r WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. o24-tf	
THE SCHOLA STIC,
34
pALMER & VanWINKLE, = -	Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES, "Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellaneous Books, Stationer}’, Slates, Inks, s Periodicals, Magazines, Etc. .
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DERAIL,
~ L.. BARBER. ANDH AIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., ... South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the .College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
.R. C.£H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan-Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
.	.	- o24-tf

. JgDWARD BUYSEE, -	’
.	. Dealer in
.. WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street,
. South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. .
. A HANAUER,	.
.	’	. Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street,
: -	South Bend, Indiana.
■---------------— Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,	•.
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS, STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
' - All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
Students wishing well made Clothing should go to
‘ *DUZBY & GALLAGHER,	•
—------------CLOTHIERS,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
,'. ’ " " AND DEALERS IN	.
' Gents’ Furnishing Goods, - . ■ HATS, CAPS, &c.
. _ No. XOG MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. o.24-2m
---SATIN GLOSS PHOTOGRAPHS.

For the most improved Satin Gloss Photographs or Gems (4 for 50 cents), go to	-	....
' BECKWITH’S GALLERY, ’
107 &'109~Miehigah Street, - ’ - - South Bend, Indiana.
■ - (Over National Bank.) .	-o24-6m
JRELAND& SON,	~
’	: PROPRIETORS OF
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE, ’
No._3A MICHIGAN. St-,-.- ._MOUTH BEND, IND.,...' *' (.Opposite the Dwight House).	"
---------o--- . HACK LUKE
.To-and from all trainsto.the.Dwisht House or anyrpart ofjthe City, and to the College and St. Mary's. ’	o24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”- -
■	----0-- ,
DROP IN. AT	.
“ TEE NINE CENT STORE!”
•	AND
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. o24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,’
SOUTH BENO, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and-MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first.class furniture.. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accomn.odation.	'
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hon,e during their stay, - JERRY KN.GHT,
•	CaRPa IN MILLS, [Proprietors.
nO)	-
A. KLINGEL & SONS, :
69 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND.
Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of •
Mens’ and Boys’ Fine Boots and Shoes
OP THE
The Celebrated Burt, Lilly Young Pratt and Brackett As Boydens hand and Machine-Sewed Goods, THE LARGEST STOCK IN THE CITY I
Give us a call and see the nobby styles.
ZLAJpiES	.
We would call your attention to our immense stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard-makes. — -o24-3m
ICECREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS.!
For the Best Confectionery, go to ‘
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
99 MAIN STBEET, - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
. MEALS AT ALL HOURS! .
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars, ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fresh Candies Made Daily.	'	-
- ■ - •	-	- '	-	-	•	o24-tf
I
The Scholastic:
JDeVOTED TO THE JnTE FLEETS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disce qixasl semper vlcturiis5 vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 25, 1874.
Number 5.
Kin* Daath.
The following poem, written by Mr. Proctor, whose death was lately announced, was very popular in its day; and Fry used it as the opening chorus of his opera “Leonora.” Mr. Proctor, better known as “Barry Conewall,” was the father of Adelaide Proctor.
King Death was a rare old. fellow I
He sat where no sun could shine;
And he lifted his hand so yellow, And poured out his coal-black wine.
■,	Hurrah 1 for the coal-black wine!
There came to him many a maiden, Whose eyes had forgot to shine;
And widows, with grief o’erladen, For a draught of his sleepy wine. Hurrah 1 for the coal-black wine!
The Scholar left all his learning;
The Poet his fancied woes;
And the Beauty her bloom, returning, Like life to the fading rose.
Hurrah! for the coal-black wine I
All came to the royal old fellow,
Who laughed till his eyes dropped brine, And he gave them his hand so yellow,'
And pledged them in Death’s black wine.
Hurrah 1 Hurrah 1
Hurrah 1 for the coal-black wine I
Architecture.
. The art of.building has been cultivated by mankind from the earliest periods of society, and from the construction of the meanest huts we may deduce the origin of all buildings. These huts were originally constructed in a conical form, which is the simplest in their structure; but being inconvenient by reason of their inclined sides, the form and construction of the huts were entirely changed by giving to them the shape of a cube.
* In the course of time mankind improved in the art of building, and invented means of rendering their houses both durable and convenient. Stones were placed upon the ground for foundations, the roofs were elevated to the centre by means of rafters, in order to support the materials for covering and to allow the water to run off. When afterwards the rude builders wished to erect more stately residences, they imitated those parts which had composed the primitive huts. The-upright trees which were used in their rude huts were the origin of columns, and the stones used as foundations to them were the origin of the bases and capitals. The beams, joists and
rafters gave rise to the architraves, friezes and cornices. The Greeks, whose genius prompted them to unite ele;
gance with convenience, obtained their ideas of building from the Egyptians. But the government under which he'lives influences the mind of man, and the Greeks having lost their independence, lost also their ascendency in. works of genius, and the Romans from that period were the promoters of the art of architecture. Julius Casar and Augustus were the patrons of Vitruvius, the learned Ro? man architect; and, though they employed him in but few works of magnificence, the rules for architecture which he gave were highly esteemed, and are still a standard among the moderns. The five orders of architecture, the Tuscan, the Doric, the Ionic, the Corinthian and the Composite, were carried by the Romans to the highest perfection; and though the people of modem times have improved the general structure of buildings, to the beauty and symmetry of these columns nothing has been added.
To give an idea of the orders, we must observe that the whole of each is divided into two parts at least—the column and entablature; and of four parts almost, when there is a pedestal under the column, and an acroterat, or little pedestal, surrounded by the entablature; that the column has three parts—the base, the shaft and the capital; the entablature has three likewise—the architrave, the friezd and the cornice.
i
The origin and name of the Tuscan order arises from Tuscany, which was originally inhabited by a colony from Lydia. Because of its strong and massive proportions, it is called the Rustic order, and is usually employed in buildings of that character. It is composed of few parts, de; void of ornament, and capable of supporting heavy weights^ Wherever strength and solidity are required there we will find the Tuscan order. The Trajan column at Rome is of this order. Its column is seven diameters high, and its capital, base and entablature have very few mouldings or ornaments.	°	,
The Doric order is so called from Dorns, who built a’ temple in Argos. It is of a grave, robust and masculine appearance, whence it is figuratively termed the Herculean order. This order possesses the same character for strength as the Tuscan, but is enlivened with ornaments in the frieze and capital.
The Ionic takes its name from the people of Ionia. The: column is more slender than the Doric, yet more graceful. Its ornaments are remarkable for their elegance, and are of a style between the richness of the Corinthian and the plainness of the Tuscan—they are simple, graceful and majestic. Contrary to all other authors, Michael Angelo gives, a single row of leaves at the bottom of the capital to the* Ionic.
j
36
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The finest of all the orders is the Corinthian, first used at' Corinth. It is expressive of delicacy,tenderness and beauty. An acanthus entwining its leaves around a votive basket that adorned the grave of a young lady, suggested to Cal-ineachus the capital which is so rich and graceful.
- The Romans were the inventors of the Composite order. It partakes of the Ionic and Corinthian orders—chiefly the latter.	" * ‘
Gothic architecture has numerous and prominent buttresses, lofty spires and pinnacles, large and ramified windows, ornamented niches and canopies with sculptured saints and. angels, delicate lacework, fretted roofs, and a profusion of ornaments. Its most distinguishing characters are small clustered pillars and pointed arches formed by the segments of two intersecting circles. This style is supposed by some to be of Arabian origin, while others think we are indebted to the Anglo-Normans for it.
F. J. W.
Symbols.
In the paintings of the early masters the symbols by which saints are known may be classed under three heads, —general symbols, special symbols, and personal or particular symbols.
Those which pertain to classes or orders of persons are general symbols; thus, the nimbus is a general symbol, characteristic of no saint in particular, but belongs to all. It was introduced into Christian art about the fifth century, and is of Gentile origin. The palm-branch is also a general symbol, it being the characteristic of all martyrs.
The large oval-shaped glory, or aureola, surrounding the entire person, is a special symbol, it being used for enveloping the figures of the Blessed Trinity and the Virgin Mary.
When the nimbus has a cross within it, it becomes then a personal or particular symbol, and is significant of the Incarnate Word. •	-	-	-
The temporal crown is a special symbol, and is given to all saints who were of royal blood. Thus we see St. Edward, St. Louis, St. Ursula, and others, with this crown. St. Ursula.is sometimes represented without a crown, but she always carries the banner, on which is represented a red cross on a white ground. She bears in her hand the palm-branch, and in her pictures we always see arrows represented, because by them she was shot to death. St. Catherine of Alexandria, another royal saint, is always represented with the wheel, her characteristic symbol. If in the paintings of the old masters, if we find a female martyr with a wheel, whether she wear the crown or not, we may rest assured that it is St. Catherine of Alexandria. The stigmata, or the impressions of the nails in the hands and feet, always distinguish the person of St. Catherine of Sienna. Sometimes this great saint is represented as holding a lily, emblematical of her purity, and at other times carrying a book and a pen, because she was one of the great writers of the Church.	'
St. Louis of France and St. Louis of Toledo are both represented with crowns on their heads, and have the fleur-de-lis on their dresses. However, the latter may al wa^ s be distinguished from the former by his holding the bishop’s staff, and by his dress as a Franciscan appearing below his royal robe.
The head or founder of a religious house may always be
distinguished from the ordinary members of the order by the book of rules which he holds in his hand. The four Evangelists are distinguished from the Apostles by their holding the books of the Gospels. They are distinguished among themselves by particular symbols—the angel, the winged lion, the ox, and the eagle. These symbols are derived from the Book of Ezekiel.
St. Peter is known by his keys, symbolical of his’power; St. Paul, by his sword, the instrument by which he suffered death.	..	.
The banner is given to St. George, St. Julian, St. Maurice and to some few others, and may be considered as a special symbol. It is, however, a particular symbol, when carried by Our Lord, to denote His triumph over hell and death.
The lily, whether carried by male or female saints, is the especial symbol of purity,—it is given to the Blessed Virgin, to St. Joseph and to the Angel Gabriel. St. Benedict and St. Dominic, as well as some other saints who are also otherwise distinguished, hold it. A male figure in black holding the lily will in all probability be meant for St; Benedict; if the dress be black and white, St. Dominic.
The holding a book (with the Greek letters Alpha and Omega written on it, is signific int of Christ.) The Prophets are indicated by scrolls held in the hands of scriptural fig-gures. The Sibyls also carry scrolls, but these require that their names be written on them.
The saint holding the model of a city in his hand is the-patron of that city. The model of a church signifies the founder of the church. An ark held in the hand is a particular symbol of St. Ambrose.	R. J. W.
The Dainty House-Fly.
A house-fly is a small object, and seemingly a very insignificant one upon which to write a disquisition; but I am convinced that if one would study the subject closely, a good moral could be deduced from a short account of his life and death. His person is small, but trimly made, and of a dark sombre hue. He has slender, shapely legs, of which he seems to take a great deal of care. His eyes are rather small, and have not much expression in them, though I infer that they must sometimes have a glitter of maliciousness when he is engaged in annoying some sleeper. His whole person presents to one’s eyes a dark, grave appearance, which would never lead one to suppose that he is one of the most giddy of all insects and that he tries to be quite a dandy in a small way. When he is not eating, he is generally smoothing down his wings with as much care as his human counterpart would brush a new coat; and no lady preparing for a great ball could spend more time with her hair or take more care of it than does this litte sport of his. It is true that he does not use pomatum, unless, perhaps, it is furnished to him by nature, but he makes up for this by careful rubbing.
He generally is not accused of using paint,-though I strongly suspect from his general character that he would if he had a chance,—nay, I have seen him gaily flying around with his legs and wings powdered with paint, which, I am led tobelieve, he had purloined from an apothecary’s shop, where the paints had been left open for a little while.
He is one. of the most impudent insects in the catalogue. He respects neither age, sex, riches, nor power, but
THE SCHOLASTIC.
ST
proceeds with as much nonchalance to annoy the sleeping millionaire as the poor artisan trying to rest his wearied, body at midday or on a Sunday afternoon.
He seems to lead a very aimless life, though at times I
have seen him display great courage and perseverance. Let a poor or rich Ilian*—for it matters little to him—go out into his yard on a Sunday afternoon to take a nap in the shade; and, after covering his face with a newspaper, let him try to sleep, and ten to one there the subject of this sketch will be present to annoy him by crawling under the 1 paper and tickling his nose, or by doing some other action which displays a decided genius for such things. In this regard he seems to have something of human nature, for the moment anything is refused to him that moment does he become a thousand fold more anxious to get it.
He is by no means particular with regard to his diet, for he will be sipping one minute from the lip of a beauty, and the next from the bulbous nose of a drunkard lying in the gutter; then he is off With a “ busz ” to tease poor Jowler, who, after coming into town with his master’s wagon, now endeavors to sleep’under the shade of it.
He is very thoughtless and does not “ stop to think before he leaps,” and as a natural consequence he often comes to grief in the molasses-jug, the water-pitcher, or some other equally dangerous place.
His vices are many, among which theft may safely be reckoned. He may be found at any time in a sugar-bowl, as he has a decided preference for anything sweet, or, as the old saying goes, “ he has a sweet tooth.” I am inclined to doubt this latter assertion, however, for I have never heard that he had any need of a dentist-, as I am certain anyone would who consumed so much sugar and sweetmeats in proportion to his size as he does.
, He may be well likened to a young man with but little sense, who thinks that this life is a perpetual holiday, and that Spring will last forever, and so makes no provision for the coming Winter, in which he will perish, as must the poor fly; He may be compared also to one who has a hasty temper, or who has not si fficientdiscretion to “ look before he leaps,” and, who therefore, often comes to grief, if not in the molasses-jug or the water-pitcher, as master Sly does, it may be in a place far worse.	G. R.
1 ----------------------■---■-------------------
‘ Secret Societies
In general, and the Order of the Freemasons in particular, on account of the great activily displayed by their members nearly everywhere, must claim our fullest attention; and though much has been said and written lately on this subject, yet it would seem that it is still far from being exhausted. There are many men, yea many Freemasons, who do not know that these societies stand condemned by clear passages of the Holy Scriptures, and were thus condemned long before any of the Roman Pontiffs ever raised his voice against them. In the sixth chapter of Proverbs, from the 12th to the 15th verse, King Solomon—the same that is claimed by the Freemasons as one of their illustrious past grand-masters—thus pronounces against them:
“ A man that is an apostate, an unprofitable man walketh with a perverse mouth. He winketh with tub eyes ; pbesseth WITH THE FOOT ; SFEAKETH WITH THE FINGEB. With a wicked heart he deviseth evil: and at all times he soweth discord. To • such a one his destruction shall presently come; and he shall suddenly be destroyed, and shall no longer have any remedy.”
Forbearing to quote the 16th and following verses of the same chapter, which seem to apply equally well to the character of the secret societies, their present and past history, we confine ourselves, for the present, to see how nicely the 13th verse fits the Freemasons and all other secret societies. For it is a well-known fact that the members of these societies do recognize, know, and understand each other by winking with the eyes, pressing with the. foot, using grips and squeezes of the hand, signs and tokens of the fingers; thus speaking a language unknown to those who are not initiated; thus walking with a perverse mouthy and devising secret plots.	.
And yet, the Freemasons, who stand thus strongly condemned, have brass enough to claim the self-same Solomon as a founder and grand master of their Order, who, with King Hiram of Tyre, another Freemason, built the Temple at Jerusalem, teaching the novices those secret grips, that winking with the eyes, that speaking with the finger, which he in his proverbs condemns as wicked plots. The Freemasons boast of having the Bible in their lodges; but it is certain that they do not read it, and learn no wisdom from its pages, else they would know where they are standing.
They do use the Bible, as a trap to catch such religious greenhorns as cannot see beyond their nose. And since they are so very desirous of having some illustrious biblical ancestor (an honor which King Solomon respectfully declines), we would advise them to read the 4 th chapter of Genesis, where they will find Cain with the mysterious mark upon his forehead; Henoch, building a city; Lamech, Jubal, Tubalcain, all of whom seem to have been the founders of societies akin to that of the Freemasons, and as closely allied therewith as the Redemptorists are allied with the Jesuits. For Cain’s mark, the trowel and apron of Henoch, and Lamech’s women, the hammer and compasses of Tubalcain, are they not the well-known tools and symbols of Masonic work? And, after all, we need not be surprised to see the Marquis of Ripon, an honest and clear-headed man, open his eyes, and turn away from the path of destruction. May be t hat the Grand-master of the English Lodges received from a still higher grand master such intimations, suggestions or r< quests, as an upright man was unable to act upon. And Ibus he not only resigned his high position, but also, like another Saul, returned into the bosom of that Church which he was called upon to persecute.
And as the London Times declares him forthwith, henceforth, and forever, unfit for exercising any more political functions, we must again conclude that the Masonic fraternity is a desperately wicked and dangerous society, subversive of all divine law and order.
Sad forebodings fill our heart in connection with this remaikable conversion. We are apprehensive of a storm brewing in old England against the Catholic Church.
Will the Prince of Wales, who succeeds Lord Ripon in the high office of English Freemasonry, and who is reported to be given up to the lusts of this world, withstand as manfully as did Lord Ripon the high pressure which is now brought to bear upon the English Lodges ? We fear he will not.
Under his leadership, the English Masons maybe aroused to active operations, in the style of their Continental brethren. It is even likely that the example given by the German, Italian, Spanish and Brazilian societies will be imitated not only in England but also in these United States. And in a very short time, perhaps, we also may feel the effects of the secret work done with the square and level, the trowel and the apron.
But the Catholic Church will again shelter herself under the word of Divine inspiration: “ He that winketh with the eyes, and speaketh with the finger, is hateful to the Lord. His destruction shall presently come, and he shall no longer have any remedy.” (Prov. vi, 15.)
J
THE SCHOLASTIC,
The Scholastic*
Published every Week during Term Time at
. NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.	.
;	TERMS:
, One year........ ...................  $1	09
, Single copies (5cts.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
* —We doubt not that ail our readers will be pleased to see the increase in the number of pages which we have made to The Scholastic. It is our intention to print hereafter sixteen pages every week. Of these sixteen pages, six or seven will be given to advertisements, and tlie remainder to general reading matter.
'We wish to devote five pages every week to essays, stories, etc., written by persons about Notre Dame. We say that we wish to deVote the space for that purpose, but if the students and others will not aid us by writing regularly for the paper, we are afraid that_we will not be able to' fulfil our wish. It is too much to expect that persons who have other work to attend to should be able to write five pages of general reading-matter, hunt up locals and items of all sorts, and have an eye upon the general work of the office.’ We hope our friends will not wait to be asked to write, but will send in plenty of matter for publication.
We return our thanks to our many friends who have given us items of news, personals, etc. We hope they will continue to. do so, in order that The Scholastic may become what it is our endeavor to make it, a live, first-class, rewsy, local paper.
Under the head of “ Musical Items,” we intend publish, ing all local musical news, together with short selections from competent musical writers and critics, which may aid our young musicians in their studies, and assist them in forming a correct musical taste. We expect that all of our musicians will aid us in this department.
We shall also from time to time publish items concerning painting and drawing. In these wTe shall notice all works of art which may be received at Notre Dame, the improvement of the members of the Drawing Classes, besides any little items from our exchanges which may help them in their studies of an art which in these days may even be of practical utility to them.
As our paper is published for the benefit of all the students,, we will also occasionally in our future numbers give notes concerning the progress of the natural sciences. These we will publish because of the interest taken in them by’the members of the Scientific Classes.
Under the head of “Literature” we will publish notices of all books and magazines sent to our office., We will, moreover, endeavor, at least once a month, to give a list of publications about to be published in the United States, besides other items of interest.
Our notes of “ Out-Door Sports ” will be given eveiy week or two, as usual.	-
In the “ Society Notes ” we will strive to condense all the proceedings of the College societies, making them brief and, at the same time, interesting—not only to the members, but to all the subscribers.
Such, kind readers of The Scholastic, is our programme : a difficult one to fill, but one that can and will be filled, if the many persons at Notre Dame who are able to write well will only give us their assistance. We know that at first there will be faults found, blit we must never mind these complaints unless there be good ground fof them. If there is cause for complaint in any number, we? will endeavor in the succeeding one to make amends by issuing a better Scholastic. If there is no good cause, then we will pay no attention to grumbling. Let our writers do the same thing—if the first endeavor is not entirely successful, let them do better in another article. Let them remember the old school-song; We will remember it also—
■ ’	• “If at first you don’t succeed,
Try, try again,”
Hoping, then, to receive material aid from all, we place the first number of our enlarged Scholastic before our readers.	•
—We hope that a complaint made about Exhibitions is former years will not have to be made during the coming year. In years past we have seen Exhibitions which were entirely too long, to attend the whole of which would occupy a number of long hours. The members of the Socie- . ties which give these long Exhibitions do themselves s , grave injury and injustice. They should always bear in mind the fact that it requires men of extraordinary talent to interest an audience more than two hours. Now, they should also remember that it is not every student who has this extraordinary ability. In fact, they should remember that these students are rarities, and at furthest that their Society only numbers a few sneh. Why then tire an audience out with long Exhibitions? Why prolong the Ex- . hibilion far into the night by playing to a drowsy audience ? Again, they frequently put the dry part of the Exhibition in the first part of the programme, so that when the lively part comes the audience is pretty well tired out, and the pleasure which they would otherwise have taken in this part of the Exhibition is completely’spoilt. And yet'if they put it in the latter part it would be perfectly unbearable. Why not, then, do away with them altogether? Would it not be welt for the directors in charge of an Exhibition, when they find their programme too long, to give two Exhibitions instead of one? For instance, say an Exhibition is to be given on Washington’s Birthday, and what with speeches, music, declamations and plays, the director finds that it will take up some three hours and a half or four hours, would it not be well in such a case to give an Exhibition the night of the 21st of February, at which all the speeches and declamations, with a certain portion of music, • may be given—and on the night of the 22d to give another, at which the plays only, with music, be given? There • are a great number of persons who care nothing for plays . who would.then be free to attend the first Exhibiton only, which they, would enjoy. Besides, all persons would be better pleased with the arrangement, as they would not . be forced to remain in the Hall such a great length of time. j.
—Maky persons seem to labor under the mistaken idea that those students who cultivate their physical powers by ’ out-door sports i’njure'their moral and mental powers. This is not true. Did they cultivate the physical to the exclusion of the mental powers, they would improve the one and hurt the other, and Dice -wrsa,--but it is by blending . the two together in a way calculated to preserve a perfect .
TO SOU
CLASSIC.
harmony of action between body and mind that the health and vigor of both exist.
It is admitted that in order to attain eminence in all pursuits, literary, mercantile, or any other, sound health is indispensable; and this can only be attained by exercising the body by out-door sports*—by hunting, by fishing, by riding, by ball-playing, etc. He who cultivates h’s mind exclu--sively to the neglect of his body as effectually buries his talents as he does who cherishes the body and neglects the mind. Plato calls that man a cripple who^exercises the mind and neglects the body; the mind thus used, or.rather abused, becomes weakened by tire very means which were intended to strengthen it. Unless both body and mind are brought together in full action, neither of them will ever attain the highest point of perfection; and this action must be regulated in proportion to the state of both, so that neither of them shall be more or less affected by each other’s action. It is only by attending to these laws that sound health of body and mind can be attained. All students should then take a certain amount of out-door exercise, of rCal sport, in order that they may give health to the body and thus enable them to study the more. It is not necessary, then, that all their time should be taken up in their physical exercises— no: give to the cultivation of the mental powers the time marked down in the rules of the house for study and class, and give to the cultivation of the physical powers the time allotted, and everyone may rest assured that he will be the better off for so doing.
r.	Personal,.
> *—L. Hayes, of ’74,-was with us on Wednesday,
—Dr. Gunn, of Chicago, was at the College last week. . -—Bro. Boniface was here from Cincinnati, Ohio, on Wednesday last.
—	We are sorry to say that Bro. James has been ill for the.past two weeks.
' -—J. D. Christy of St. Louis, formerly a student, paid us a visit this last week.	■
—	Rev. Father A. Sharkey, of West Philadelphia, spent fest Sunday at the College.	’
—	Fr. Walters, here the past week, looks well. So also does Fr. (Echtering, of Mishawaka.
—	Mr. Kirsch, C. S. 0.,left for Cincinnati, Ohio, on Wednesday. He will teach in St. Joseph’s College.
' —On Monday last, Rev. P. F. Quigley, D. D., of Cleveland, Ohio, was here on a visit to Bishop Gilmour.
—	Among the visitors on Wednesday were Mr. and Mrs. Walsh, Mr. Ciery and Mrs. Dillon, all of Chicago, Ill.
—	Jas. A. O’Reilly, of the Class of'6S, paid us a visit last Sunday. He is looking remarkably well, and full of business.
—	Bishop D wenger arrived here on Tuesday last to hold the Diocesan Retreat with his priests. He is looking hale and hearty.
-	—Mr. Kramer, the Editor of the most prominent Herman paper in Michigan, came over from Detroit on a visit, on Wednesday.
' —There has been no change in Fr. Lemonnier’s condition, unless it be that he continues to grow weaker and weaker each day. -
—	On Tuesday last Thos. W; Flynn, a student of ’57, paid a short visit to Notre Dame. He is now Cashier for A. T. Stewart & Co., of -New York. ’
—	Rt. Rev. Dr. Foley, the estimable and accomplished Bishop of Chicago, spent a few hours at the College Friday evening.	‘
—	We were delighted to see our fellow-student and friendi Rev. M. O’Reilly, of Valparaiso, Ind., this last week. He is here attending the Retreat.	• '
■ —Among the priests who have attended the Retreat the week past are Revs. Messrs. Crowley, Dinnen,-Campion and Messman, formerly students of the University.
—Rev. Fr. O’Sullivan, of Laporte, and Rev. Fr. Hallinan, of Lafayette, formerly Professors at the University, have been with us theweek past. Both are seemingly ingoed health. •	■■■■.■ z '	’	-	-
—Our old friend Rev. D. Tighe, of Chicago, surprised: and gratified us-by dropping in on us-last Wednesday.afternoon. We know of no face more pleasing to us thair that of Father -Tighe.	. - - -	•	.	•
—It made it look like old times to see the pleasant face1 of Fr. Lawlor of Logansport here this past week. We remember well how he once filled the office .of Prefect off Discipline here in olden times.	•	-
—The Poi'dand, {Gregoa) Bulletin, speaking of John M, Gearin, of the Class of’71, says: “For the first time in the' history of the Oregon Legislature a native of the State has been sent up as a Representative. This honor has-fallen upon John M. Gearin of Multnomah, who does credit to his Webfoot “raising.” He has taken a leading position in the work of the House.”	•	•
—We.are pained to be forced to announce that the doe4 tors have no hope of Fr. Gillespie’s recovery. This wilt be sad news to the very many friends to whom he. has endeared himself by his many acts of kindness. It may ba. that he will be called from us before another issue of the Scholastic. He accepts his sickness with perfect resignation, having been prepared by a worthy reception of the., last Sacraments.	. .	.	—
Society Notes* . •	-
—The Philopatriaris reorganised last night. Full notice-next week.	_	-
—The Philodemics held their 6th regular meeting Oct. 20th, T. A. Daily presiding. The debate was on the question, Resolved, “ That Works of Fiction are Injurious to Society.” Messrs. Foley and Keeler sustained the-affir-: mative, and Messrs. O’Leary and Key defended the negative. The decision was postponed until the next meeting.
—The debate in a certain society last Tuesday night was very exciting, at least we would suppose so, judging from the crowd which gathered around the door, drawn thither by the noise. We have no doubt but that the young gentlemen would do well in a public debate. Their present room is too small for a stormy .speech; come putin the Hall, young men, where you can give yourselves full swing.’ _
—Persons belonging to the Circulating Library may obtain access to the same at the following times: The’St. Cecilians, on Saturday evening, at 7 o’clock; the Juniors on Tuesday evening, at 7 o’clock; the Seniors on Wednes-. days and Sundays, from 9 to 10 A. M.; .The Community,’ • on Sundays from to 1% P. M.; The Servitors, on ’ Saturdays, at 3^ P. M. The Library will be open to all on ’ Wednesdays from 8 to IT A. M., and on'Sundays from 8 to 10 A. M.	. •	.	• ,
> ’ —The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association held
40
THE S.C H 0 L. A STIC.
its 8th regular meeting Oct. 20'th, 1874. At this meeting the following deserve mention for compositions.' J.P. McHugh, on "Tom Collin’s Experience as a Baseballist,” J. F. Soule, on “A Trip Up the Mississippi /’ and R. Norris, on "The Choice of a Profession.” Declamations were delivered by Messrs. J. F. Beegan, W. S. Meyer, J. Dore, T. Solon, E. G. Arnold, W. Lawless and E. J. Wood. Master R. Walker was elected a member.
Musical Items,
—When will the Band give us a serenade ?
—An addition of a number of soprano Voices has been made to the Choir.	-
- —The petite soirees nearly every evening in the parlor sre-very enjoyable.
—The singing on Sunday, though not equal to that on the two Sundays previous, was very good.
—We again ash why they don’t sing a few English hymns at the Wednesday morning Mass ?
—The article entitled “ Church Chant vs. Church Haste” in.the November number of the. Catholic World, should be tead by members of the Choir, or read to them.
—We have had no Musicial Soirees this year on account of. the sickness of Rev. Fr. Lemonnier, but we understand that there will be one about the middle of November.
—Church’s Music al Visitor” is as usual filled with choice musical reading, and contains four pieces of music. It must be.a welcome visitor to professional and amateur musicians.
’ —The “ Cecilia ” for October brings among its items en couraging reports of the progress of real Church Music. We were sorry to find only two pages of music, and we hope to see at least four pages in the future, as in the previous numbers.
—The Orchestra is composed of the following members : Leader and Clarionet, Bro. Basil; 1st Violins, Prof. Paul and J.Brennan; 2nd Violins, Jos. McHugh and Carl Otto; Viola, G. Roulhac; Violoncello, C. Mayr; Contrabass, Bro. Leopold; Flute, J. Gillespie; Carnet a Piston, Bro.----; French Horns, S. Zahm and R. Staley; Trombone, F. Fr^re-
—The Director of the Orchestra has just given out the parts of the overture to Fidelio by Beethoven, If the critical audience of Notre Dame found fault last year with suppe, what will they not do now that the Orchastra has Beethoven in hand ? However, they have only themselves to blame if they cannot appreciate the music of the Orchestra, f<* the members are determined to give nothing in.future Exhibitions except what is truly classical.
Literature.
—TheCatholic World for November, is on our table. Its contents are: I, Church Chant versus Church Music. II, A Vision. HI, On. the Wing. IV, The Three Edens. V, A.Discussion with an Infidel. VI, Destiny. VII, The Veil Withdrawn. VIII, Fac Similes of Irish National Manuscripts. IX, Annals of.the Moss Troopers. X, Assunta Howard. XI, Inscription for the Bell." Gabriel.” XII, Switzerland in 1873. XIH, A Legend of Alsace. XIV,-Wind and Tide. XV, Matter. XVI, New Publications
We have so frequently called the attention of our readers to the merits of the Catholic World.that any further recom
mendation would seem to be perfectly useless. Still, afc this time, when there are so many worthless books and periodicals—nay, wicked periodicals—published, it is a pleasure and a duty for us to recommend the Catholic World to the attention ofthe subscribers of our paper. We repeat what we said in a former number, that all the students of the College ought to read the World. The stories found in it are always of the highest order, while some of the classic Catholic novels have appeared in its pages. The articles are all well written, With a grace and polish not found in the articles of many other magazines, and they show great knowledge and learning. The World is published by the “ Catholic Publication Society,” No. 9 Warren Street, New York, and its subscription price is $5.00 per annum. Club together, then, and get a copy.	■
—The October number of the De La Salle Monthly, a Catholic Magazine, published by the New York Catholic Protectory, West Chester, N. Y., is excellent. . Its con-, tents are—I, The Venerable De La Salle. II, Love Lightens Labor. Ill, The Transit of Venus. IV, About. Dogs Socially. V, Persevering Warfare. VI, Annie Dillon, or Broken in Twain. VII, The Cathedral of Seville, VIII, Repentance. IX, A Ransomed Life, X, Chill Oc-. tober. XI, Catholic Items. XII, Scientific Notes.
Persons subscribing for the De La Salle will do two good things: they will procure an entertaining and instructive journal, well edited and thoroughly Catholic, and at. the same time aid an institution which deserves the support, not of New York alone but of all Catholics—viz.: The New York Catholic Protectory.
—Rev. A.’A. Lambing, of Pittsburg, Pa., has in press a book of instructions for orphans.
—The Scientific American comes to us regularly. In its line it has no superior, being all that can be desired. •
—The Hew York Tablet is becoming one of our best exchanges. It is realy delicious to read its controversies^ with the Religious press.
—The Boston Pilot, since Mr. Boyle O’Reilly has taken charge of it, has greatly improved—though it always was a. first-class paper.
—The Young Catholic continues to be as interesting as ever.
—The Catholic Sunday Companion is filled with inter-csting matter.
—The Index Niagabensis comes to us much improved, in appearance. They have good writers on its staff, and its articles are very readable. Altogether, it is very interesting.
—The Archangel is the name of one of our new exchanges, coming all the way from Oregon.. It is well printed, and shows great ability.
—The Owl is the same wise and thoughtful monthly it has always been. .
—The Spectator, of St. Laurenf .College, is much improved this year. We wish it success.
—From Georgetown, D. C., we receive, the College Journal, than which we have no better exchange.
—The College Messenger is an excellent college paper. It commences ita-new year with many improvements, and is filled with considerable local news.
—The Young Folks’ Rural is an excellent agricultural paper for young people.	•
—We again call attention to the Catholic Record, a journal which deserves the support of all Catholics. Its
S CflOWTlC
41
articles are thoughtful and show great ability, and sometimes even genius.
—THE Journal of Public Instruction, issued both in
William Forbes,
"English and French, and published at Quebec, is a most Lawrence Zeitler,...... useful and instructive monthly.	John Quincy Johnson,
—The Catholic Publication Society has in press a new edition of “Holy Week,” “Life of Father Bernard C. S3. R.,” and “ The Illustrated Catholic Almanac for 1875.”
—P. F. Cunningham, of Philadelphia, will soon publish "The Journey of the Sick,” from the French of Abbe Perrijoe.
—John Murphy A Co., of Baltimore, announce a new
James Haffey,........ Constantine W. Q linn, William John Divis,.. Jerome A. Lynch,....
and enlarged edition of the “ Manual of the Sodality of the Sacred Heart of Jesus.”
—Rev. A. F. Hewett has in press a new volume entitled the “ King’s Highway,” in which the author shows that the only way to salvation is through the Catholic Church. The Catholic Publication Society will be the publishers. ’
—Robert Clarke & Co., of Cincinnati, are publishing a translation of “Alzog’s History of the Church.” The translation was made by Rev. Dr. Pabisch and Rev. Fn Byrne, of Cincinnati, Ohio.
—The Catholic Publication Society have reprinted Formby’s “Sacum Septenarium.”
Diooesan Estreat.
At the request of Rt. Rev. Jos. D wenger, D. D., the Clergy of the Diocese of Fort Wayne assembled at Notre Dame, on Oct. 19, to. commence the religious exercises of the Retreat. The following clergymen were present:
Rt. Rev. J. Dwenger, D. D.; Revds. G. Hamilton and M. H. Hallinan, Lafayette; F. Lawlor, Logansport; E. Koenig, J. Rademacher, J. H. Brammer and M. E. Campion, Fort Wayne; J. A. Stephan, Sin Pierre; A. (Eeh-tering, Mishawaka; M. O'Reilly, Valparaiso; J. Becks, Michigan City; B. Kroeger, Rensselaer; L. Lamour, Peru; D. Diihmig, Avilla; M. Fumbiille, Columbia City; E. Walters, Crawfordsville; W. Woeste, Huntington; A. Heilmann, St. John’s; T. O’Sullivan and J. CEchtering, Laporte; J. Crawley, Anderson; B.Widtn, New Haven; P. Frawley, Delphi; J. Dinnen, Oxford; J. Nussbaum, Hesse Cassel; G. Zurwellen, Plymouth; F. Weihmann, Wabash; J. Bleckmann, Attica; A. Messmann, Kentland; A. Young, Leo; H. Koehne, Logansport; J. Quinlan, Elkhart; F. Von Schwedler, Decatur; C. M uijiy, St. Vincent’s; J. Grogan, Lagro; X. Deimel, Cedar Lake; H.
C. Otto, A. Lonstorf, R. Ma is, E. Chalfant, C. Favey, E. Ken-Meissner, Crown Point; M. Noll, Union City; T. Wil- nedy> A. R3binson> J. E. Marks, P. Egin, J. McManus, J. B. ,kens, Arcola; J. Dempsy, Fulton; J. Lordemann, Ko-
komo; F. X. Baumgartner, Turkey Creek; and G. Steiner, Huntington.
The exercises of the Retreat were conducted by Rev. Father Nussbaum, S. J., a most eloquent preacher and one who does honor to the illustrious Order to which he belongs. Sunday, Oct. 25, the Diocesan synod will open at 6% o’clock, A. M., with a Solemn Pontifical High Mass.
Father Secchi, the celebrated Jesuit astronomer at Rome, is going to use a special adaptation of the spectroscope in order to watch the approach to and contact with the sun of the planet Venus on the occasion-of the eagerly looked-for transit of that planet on the 8th and 9th of December.	.
Aiditisnal Arrivals.
.Chicago, Illinois.
.Notre Dame, Indiana.
.Notre Dame, Indiana.
.Fairbury, Illinois.
-Saint Inuis, Missouri.
.Toledo, Ohio.
.Indianola, Iowa.
Boll of Honor.
SEXIOK DEPARTMENT.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berrenger,' J. Brown, R. Barrett, O. Corcoran, E. Chalfant, L. Chamberlain, J. Caren, J. Crummey, G- Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Campbell, J. Cullen, W. Dechant, P. Egan, B. Euans, J. Ferry, T. Flannigan, J. Girard, P. Guilloz, E. Graves, T. Grier; J. Grace, J. Hackett, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, H. Hunt, J. Handley, T. Hansard, A. Horne, J. Hogan, H. Hoffman, W. Jenkins, 8. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, P. Lawrance, C. Lane, G. McNulty, J. Marks, E. Mc-Pharlin, R. Maas, F. Montgomery, P. McDonald, W. MeGavin, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, J. McManus, E. McLaughlin, H. Marble, E. Maas, P. Matttimore, J. Ney, T. ' O’Leary, T. O’Mahony, F. O’Brien, C. Proctor, T. Pugh, J. Quinn, C. Robertson, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, P. Skahill, F. Schlink. P. Shaul, G. Sammers, J. Van Dusen, C. Walters, F, Wilhelm, R. White.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Beegan, J. W. Connolly, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, L. Evers, F. E. Foxon, P. Fitzpatrick, J. T. Foley, L Guetig, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, J. P. Kartz, H. A. Korty, J. Colton, C. V. Larkin, R. McGrath, H. McGuire, W. S. Meyer, D. Nelson, W. Nicholas, D. J. O’Connell, F. Rosa, L. P. Smith, J. A. Smith, W. S. Stout, J. F. Soule, T. J. Solon, T. Summers, H. Weber, C. J. Wippie, J. E. Wood, A. Byrne, A. Bergck, F. H. Backman, G. Budd, A. Burger, P. Schnurrer, C. Hake', G. Woodward, H.- Kinson, M. E. Murphy, F. Bagier, W. Smith, H. Kreig.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Francis McGrath, Willie Cash, Michael McAuliffe, Clement L. Moody, Francis Carlin, Kilph Golsen, Samuel Goldsberry, Colly Clarke, Otto Lindberg, Colly Campau, Albert Bashey, E. Joyce Dubois, Caarley Bashey, Francis Campau, Louis Goldsmith.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, OCTOBER^.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Senior Glass—F. H. Farrell, G. H. Hoyt, P. E. Lawrence,.
Waters, J. Berrenger, L. Chamberlain, R. White, J. Brennan, E. Gault, F. G Bearss, F. Dill, C. Lans, D. Tompson, T. Flannigan, F. Morass, R. Birrett, P. Mattimsre, J. W. Fullerton, E. Ayers, • Peter Mattimore.
Junior Class.—A. Byrne, J. Delvecchio, R. Walker, P. Fitzpatrick, D. Nelson, W. Nichols, L. Pelliod, A. Bergck, E. Gleason, J. French, J. Willis, F. Raymond, C. Wippie, J. Wood, W. Stout, J. Hamlin, C. Post, J. Kurtz, A. Betcher, F. Hoffman, C. Larkin, J. Hanlan, M. Kramer, T. Talbot, W. Meyer, J. Foley, L.- Guetig, J. Soule, J. D. O’Hara, C. Greenleaf, J. Kielty, A. Thomas, P. Kelly, F. Klauer, H. Webber, W. Kreig, W. Smith, J. Smith, L. Smith, J. Cotton, H. Harvey, W. Byrne, C. Otto-way, E. C. Gramling, F. Bngner, J. Leitelt, A. Leiteit, H. Kinson, G. Woodward, D. Sammers, J. M. Crummey, G. C. Budd, F. H. Buchman, J. W. Connelly, R. H. McGrath, F. Carlin, J. Garrity.
42
THE SCHOLASTIC,
HONORABLE MENTIONS
Minim Department.—Colly Clarke, Ralph Golsen, Eddie Raymond, Lee Frazee, Eddie Dubois, John O’Meara, Tommy Hooley, and Michael McAuliffe.. .	. .
L:cal Items.
—Hush I	’ ' "
—Advertised
—Minims lively.
—Sixteen pages 1 -
—It’s been smoky.
—Fall crops are all in.	,
• —Tuesday—extra Rec. .	'
■- —Retreat began Monday.
' —Fixing up the billiard tables.
—Water-works at the Novitiate.
•—How are our advertisements ?
’ —Subscribe for The Scholastic. •
. —Subscriptions coming in every day.
. •—The Sholasticate grounds are lovely. .
- —Coal is coming in by the wagon loads.
• —We have steam in the Presbytery now.
• —Who went to Chicago with the “ purp ”■?
—Bro. Paulinus reports all well at the farm.
‘ —Competition for the chromo will be lively.
—Bro. Leopold is reorganizing the Junior Orchestra.
—Our farmers are busy hauling wood for the winter.
' —We call attention to our advertisements this week.
’ —The Telescope is still taken in charge by Prof. Howard.
—Isn’t our County Surveyor going to make things all right?
. —The Class of Physics is as large again this year as it was last	.
—No person will lose money by advertising in The Scholastic. •
—The Juniors enjoyed themselves nutting this last week. What luck?
.—Ball players should beware of the water-spout on the Music Hall.	.
—The clock in the New Church will be in working order in a few days. -	-
—Mr. Zahm has procured much material lately for the Chemical Labratory.
,='■—Brother Simon keeps the Botanical Garden in fine repair. He is a real worker.
—Considerable sport in the Junior yard last-Tuesday morning. “ Nothing like it.”
' —See the card of the “ Nine-Cent Store.” All kinds of curiosities are to be seen there.
—The recreation hall for the students of the Manual tabor School will soon be finished.
—The picked nine got their apples on Wednesday last. How did the Excelsiors like their share ?
—Dr. C. H. Middleton’s card is in another column. He is an excellent dentist, as many can testify.
„ —Many repairs are being made at the Apprentices’. Carpenters, painters, glaziers etc., are all busy.
’ —Hemy Blum, the proprietor of the “ Student’s Office,” will satisfy all persons in his line of business.	.
—The Dwight House is an excellent hotel. Ton should read their advertisement. They will treat you well.
New goods always on hand at Carpenter’s, 105 Michigan street.	[o24-lm .
■ —Friday .morning. Solemn Pontifical Mass was celebrated by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne. -
—Carpenter, the hatter, has removed to 105 Michigan street.	■	[o24-lm
—If you have no article to drop in the Scholastic box, -put in fractional currency. .Nothing- lessjhan fifty cents will be received.	-
—Do you want choice fruits? Read the advertisement of the Knoblock Store. They have an excellent stock there.	.
—“Why is not my bed a bed?" said a student in an Eastern College. “ Give it up.” “ Because it is a little;
.buggy.”	■	■
—We call attention to the advertisement of D. J. Holland & Co. Those who use the “ weed ” would do well to give them a call.	•	.
—Our barber’s advertisement will be found with the others. Mr. Dubail will be at the College every Wednesday morning.	-	;	.
—Sign your names to your communications, otherwise they will not be attended to. This is a- strict rule with us, and ice ibid not break it.
- Read Palmer & Van Winkle’s advertisement. They .keep on hand a good stock of books, papers, etc. Their confectionaries are excellent.	.
—Visitors would do well to read the advertisement of; Ireland & Son before coming to the College. Fast horses and excellent vehicles are kept by them. *	'
—Some students who for the nonce turned carpenters, and endeavored to put locks on their desks, found out that it was not such an easy thing after all.
—We call attention to the card of Mr. E. S. Pecks, who deals in hats, caps,-clothing, and gents’ furnishing goods. He has a fine stock on hand.
—Young dogs ought never to be awakened from their sleep at two o’clock in the morning—so, at least, say two or three dwellers in the Infirmary building.
—Mr. Bonney’s card appears in another column. The students have seen the work which Mr. Bonney has done, and know how to appreciate his excellent work.
—“I.am a little hoarse this morning,” said Prof-------, the other day. “I have little colt,” responded a young' fellow at the far end of the class. '
—Watches, clocks and jewelry are for sale by Mr. Ed* ward Buysse, as you can see by reading his advertisement. He will repair your watches neatly and promptly.
—We saw a mongrel game of ball played in the Junior alley. They belt a ball and then a half a dozen of them yell “ How’s that ? ” What is the meaning of it ?
—A. Hanauer, as you can see by his advertisement, keeps on hand an excellent stock of ready-made clothing, gents’ furnishing goods, etc. Read his advertisement.
—I have.spared no pains or expense to make my store one of the most attractive places in the city. Call and see . me.	E. C. Carpenter. [o24-lm
—Rev. Father O’Mahoney was made the recipient of a magnificent silver watch some days ago. The donors were the members of the Temperance Society of South Bend.-
—The Dancing class commenced the other evening— Quite a number are taking lessons in tripping “ on the light fantastic”—That’s right. Let a few more join the class. ,
—In our next, issue of the Scholastic we will publish a full report, of the. Diocesan Synod and of the .Retreat. Everybody should procure a number of it.	.	. ;
THE SCHOLASTIC.	,	13
< —See the card.of D. E. Cummins, the dentist, in South Bend. Hedoes his work neatly and cheaply. - See to it.
—We direct special attention to our advertisements. Students will do well to call upon those who advertise, because it shows who are their real friends in South Bend.
—Before buying your boots and shoes, peruse the advertisement of D. H. Baker & Bro. The Messrs. Baker have a large stock of goods on hand, and will be pleased to have you call.
' —Mr. George Hehr, whose card is elsewhere in our paper, makes up clothes in excellent style. He deserves a trial from the students. '
—If you get into any legal scrapes, we would advise you to employ Hagerty & Tong, whose card appears in this issue.
’ —The probabilities are that we will have a severe winter. If we do, you will want skates. Mr. E. Nicar has them for sale^also fishing-tackle, etc. See his card.
—There were three Bishops at Notre Dame on Friday, Bishop Dwenger, our ordinary; Bishop Gilmourof Cleveland, who is convalescent at St. Mary’s; and Bishop Foley of Chicago, who came over on a visit.
—Mr. Beckwith’s advertisement is in our advertising columns. All persons wishing Satin Gloss Photographs or Gems, as they are called, should call at Beckwith’s gallery. '	•
: —Father Louage and bis young men at the Novitiate are making the north side of St. Joseph’s Lake very beautiful. The grove on the north side will soon be one of the finest about Notre Dame.
’—We notice some few persons fishing occasionally at the lake. If you wish to engage in this pastime, you can procure excellent fishing-tackle at V. Nicar’s, South Bend ; also skates, etc.
:—We call attention to Ed. Gillen’s advertisement in another column. Ed. will give satisfaction to all dealing with him. Societies, etc., getting up supphrs this winter should remember him.
—Who left his baggage in the Parlor ? In the southeast corner there is a valise left by some unknown party. The contents would lead us to say that the owner had been robbing an orchard.
—The firm of M. Livingston & Co. have an advertisement of their popular clothing house in our advertising columns. Read what it is before buying your clothes. He has fine goods on hand.!	.
’—It is rumored that the Class of Physics will give an entertainment this winter, which will certainly be pleasing to’ all. It will consist of lectures on electricity and other subjects, to be enlivened by experiments.
—Ben. Coquillard’s advertisement appears in another column. Ben. is a good fellow, keeps goods horsts, and will give all visitors a good drive to the College grounds.
—Quite a number of apparatuses have recently been procured for the class of Physics by Mr. Zahm, C. S. C., at a cost- of several hundred dollars. It is quite a sight to see this gentleman’s room with instruments and machines of;all kinds in it.	.	_	.
. .—A. Klingel & Sons’ advertisement should be read before purchasing your shoes in South Bend. He will satisfy all persons desiring good fitting boots or shoes. His stock is;very large.	’’
i—One of our students was asked if he would have roast beef, when he replied"No, I thank you; gastronomical
satiety admonishes me that I have arrived at the ultimate stage of deglution consistent with dietetic integrity.”
—Messrs. Busby & Gallagher, as you may also learn by’ their advertisement, keeps on hand a large stock of clothing, gents’ furnishing goods, etc. They have an excellent cutter. •_	■
—Read the advertisement of Hight & Fairfield in another column. These young men do excellent work, and have on hand a large and varied stock of jewelry, watches/ clocks, etc.	•	.	•
—On Thursday morning, Oct. 22, Rt.Bev. Dr. D wenger,-Bishop of Fort Wayne, conferred Tonsure and Minor Orders on Mr. J. A. Zahm, C. S, C., and Minor Orders on Mr. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C. On Saturday, the 21th, the two young levites were raised to thedignity of Subdeacon.
—We direct the attention of our musicians to the advertisement of Horton & Palmer, dealers in sheet music, mu-, sic books, pianos, etc. They can fill any bill for them.
—See the advertisement of P. L. Garrity, the Candy Man in Chicago. Our Chicago readers, who are numer*. ous, should make it a point to give him a call. The best’ of confectionary will be found there.
—South Bend is the liveliest town in the State of Indiana/ Its merchants have a great deal of goaheaditiveness in (hem, its papers are enterprising, and its people are remarkable for their good looks.	‘
—We have no doubt but that the advertisement of Mrs. C. S. Stover will be of great interest to the young ladies of St. Mary’s. If they want good millinery goods, etc., they should call upon her, as she is about the only person in South B-nd who can give them perfect satisfaction. Remember Mrs. Stover.	’
“ My son,” said an affectionate Mishawaka father at the foot of the stairs; “ arise and see the newly-risen luminary of the day, and hear the sweet birds singing their matin of song-praise to their Creator; come, while the dew is on ’ the grass, and tender lambs are bleating on the hill-side; come, I say, or I’ll be up there with a switch and give you the soundest thrashing that ever you had in all your born days.”	'	1
—A good college paper is worth more for the moral and gentlemanly tone of college life than a library of by-laws and an army of faculty spies.—F. Independent.
Moral—A college’ paper, in order to be good, must be well sustained by both students and alumni. Let all grumblersand critics take heed and lend a helping hand.— Madigonensis.	.	’
Them’s our sentiments exactly.
—The Printer Again—A poet who wrote for an Eastern College paper a flaming poem on martyrdom’ in which’ occurred the line—
“ See the pale martyr in his sheet of fire,”
was cut to the heart when he saw it come out in the village1 paper—
“ See the tall martyr with his shirt on fire.”	.
—There is a boy in South Bend who says he “likes a rainy day; too rainy to go to school, and just about rainy enough to go a fishing.”	’
- Mejeramcook, N. B., October 14,1874.
Editors of Scholastic:—St. Joseph’s College opened with one hundred and twenty-five students—which is doing magnificently for us.
Yesterday we celebrated the anniversary of the Com- ’ mencement of the College. High Mass was sung, the Rev. C. Lefebvre, C. S. C., Celebrant, the Rev. E. E. Labbe,
THE S C H 0 L A S T 1 0 \
C. S. C., Deacon, arid Rev. Jas. McDevitt, Subdeacon. In the stalls we noticed Rev. J. C. L. Lecours, C. St 0., Rev. W. McManus, Rev. P. Bradley, Rev. F. Roy, 0. S. 0., and others.
The contract for building the new College was made out a day or two ago and we may expect to see it in readiness for students by the 1st of next September.
The Students are preparing to celebrate St. Cecilia’s Day with becoming solemnity. A grand Mass will be sung on the occasion J and in the evening I believe the seance will be first class-—supperior to former years if possible.
Tours,	Sixty.
Azi Notes.
■—Besides the oil paintings, some twenty-five beautiful chromos were received from Rome.
—We had the pleasure of seeing a part of the scene which Prof. Gregor! is painting for the next Exhibition. If we may judge the whole from a part, it will be beautiful.
—A number of very fine paintings have been received at Notre Dame from Rome.
There are two very fine pictures of the Moly Family, which are real beauties. The Adoration, of the Mogi is excellent, and will be a great addition to the works of art at Notre Dame. The Spousals of St. Catherine is our favorite, nothing in the whole collection, in our opinion, being equal to it. The Annunciation is a well-executed copy from that of of Angelico. The Madonna and Child, by whom we are not informed, is among the finest in the collection. The Madonna del Sacro Cuore, the Conception, the Madonna, Child and Angels, the Madonna with book, the Mater Amabilis, the Madonna della Seggiola (a copy of Raphael), the Mater Pietatis, the Paelaggio by M. Gregori; and a Madonna, complete the list of paintings received. These, with a number of other paintings already at Notre Dame, are to form the commencement of an Art Gallery which we hope will increase year by year until it will become one of the finest collections in the Northwest.
Out-Door Sports.
—A very interesting game of baseball was played Wednesday last between the Collegiates and the Commercials. The game resulted in favor of the Collegiates by a score of 15 to 14.
—During the past week the ball-alley has been much used. Who are the champion players?
—There were no games of foot-ball during the past week..
—We see an occasional boatman on the upper Lake. Give us a scurb-race next Wednesday—couldn’t you ?
—A game of baseball between the 2nd nine of the Alpines and the “lazy” nine of the Seniors, was played on Wednesday, which resulted in favor of the Alpines by a score of 40 to 16.
—A. game of baseball was played on Oct. 21st between a picked nine of Seniors and the first nine of the Excelsiors, but the playing was so 'poor and the number of tallies was so high that we decline publishing the score.
—Hereafter we will refuse to publish any score in full when the total exceeds twenty on each side, unless the game be for the championship.
—We expect the score of all games from the captain of the victorious nine. Let them be in full, if very well played;
' simply a synopsis of innings, if well played; the total of both sides, if poorly played; and simply a statement of the game, if very poorly played.
Fall aad Winter Styles for Students. - •“—-
Dear Editor As neatness is everywhere looked upon as a sign of good breeding, and as it is required by the University “ rules,” we apprehend a few remarks on the important suhj>ct will prove quite comms il faut at present. Therefore we have been casting around among the wise, and append the result of our observations.
Necktieswill be worn more than ever this season as a semi-dress garment. The proper time for wearing them seems to be on Wednesdays and Sundays between the hours “ eight and nine,” a. m. If you are by per fastidious, of course you may wear them all day, but such is not the custom. [N. B. Coughs and colds are in fashion now, and should be displayed on all occasions, but especially in church.] Boots are worn as large as possible this season, and usually without polish, it being considered a mark of genius.
Buttons are not much worn, except on waistcoats, where we occasionally notice they are very much worn J but the general tendency is to discard them altogether, chiefly on account of their scarcity, their very high price, and the difficulty attendant on keeping them. Pins will be fashionable this winter; the Alaska Diamond is highly recommended. In trowsers we notice very little change; spring-pants are of course discarded, and large side-pockets are coming into quite general use these cold days. Undress suits are not popular, nor are they deemed comfortable for ordinary wear, and silks are worn but very little; black is the only popular color. About Christmas time, checks will come into demand and will undoubtedly continue to have a great run for some time.
White vests are very rare, and are apt to continue so until next June. Silk hats are not considered stylish, and are, to a great extent, “ laid on the shelf.” Morning coats are worn to some extent, but those who find themselves “ at sea” over “duties” in Mathematics or Greek generally prefer reefing-jackets. A new style of English ‘ pattern called the “ Examination ” coat is just out, and promises to be very popular about the last of January. It is cut high at the collar, and buttons close, with extremely large side-pockets covered by equally large flaps. They are unique, dressy, and convenient, and it is somewhat singular they did not make their appearance last year; they would have • been hailed with delight.
There is a decided inclination to revive the “ dressy ’ style of goods so long prevalent in overcoats, and they are correspondingly high, in consequence of which they will be worn longer than usual—as long, in fact, as they will hold together. Habits of idleness will be worn by about the usual number; and cloaks, which are always fashionable,will continue to be worn so long as the market is thronged with such desirable patterns, which are always warranted a perfect fit. Those who remember the old proverb, “ Kittens in mittens never catch mice,” will be cautious about wearing gloves. And “rings” are not near so popular as they once were. Handkerchiefs are rapidly falling into oblivion, and flirtations, which rhymes with vacations, survive only in memory; while hats,li&a smiles, will continue to be worn out by about the usvr 1
THE SCH
A
OLASTIC.	45
number. The fashionable chain just at present is called “ Gunther’s,” for a description of which see the Professor of Civil Engineering, or the County Surveyor.
. I remain, Mr. Editor,
Fashionably yours,	T. A. D.
Tcstal.
The following items of postal law should be more generally known, as innumerable mistakes arise from their nonobservance :	.
1.	Letter rates must be paid on all sealei packages, and on all matter not sealed which contains writing, however little, with one exception, viz., manuscript for books.
2.	Nothing should be written on the contents or cover of matter passing at less than letter rates of postage but the address. To add, for instance, “From Joe,” subjects such matter to letter postage.
3.	To use stamps cut from envelopes is punishable with a fine of fifty dollars.
4.	To enclose anything written in printed matter subjects the mailing party to a fine of five dollars, unless the party addressed pays letter-postage on the same.
5.	Never send money in ordinary letters.
6.	Stamps should be placed invariably on the upper righthand corner of all mail matter.
7.	Prepayment in full on all matter is required by law in this country, and propriety requires the same for foreign countries.	-
In your letters give the full name of your post-ofine; with that of the State, at least properly abbreviated. Wrap papers securely. Observe, too, the local rlues for students’ letters. .
KATES OF POSTAGE FOK FOREIGN COUNTRIES:
On letters, per one-half ounce or fraction thereof: To all the German States “ via North German Union direct,”—6 cents, or “ Closed Mai), via E .gland,”—7 cents. Papers, each,—3 cents. Letters to Great Britain, Ireland, Scotland, and the Canadas,—6 cents. Papers to Great Britain, Ire- land and Scotland, each,—2 cents; to the Canadas—1 cent. Letters to France, per half-ounce, “ Direct or Closed Mail,”—9 cents; newspapers, each,—3 cents.
The Splendid Cathedral at Milan.
An American non-Catholic gentleman, travelling in Europe, writes as follows of the grand and magnificent Cathedral at Milan, one of the most enduring, beautiful and imposing monuments of the zeal, generosity, civilization and culture of the Catholic priesthood and laity eight hundred years ago, during that period which this gentleman so flippantly denominates the “Dark Ages”:
“ At Milan, a city of 150,030, with 150 churches, well built, and in the midst of the great plain, there is material for a week’s sight-seeing. The great attraction to me, however, is not its wall, or its triumphal gate, or its highly ornamented churches, or its museum, or its celebrated Last Supper by Da Vinci—it is the Cathedral of marble. Your anticipations, however high, are here outrun by the reality.
“ You may have seen the Cathedral at York in England,' of Westminister Abbey in.London, oPRouen in France, of Notre Dame iu Paris, or even the grand old buildings at Cologne or Strasburg, but this one at Milau seems to
outvie them all in the detail and solidity of its construction as in the minute honesty of architectural adornment In every portion of it.	.
“ This is the Cathedral which commands the undivided admiration of that fearless art-critic, Mr. Ruskin. It is built entirely of white marble from quarries north of Lake Maggiore, some of which, by reason of its age, has assumed a tinge as if it were filled with the roseate hues of an Italian sunset.
“ This Cathedral has a history that is older than that of many nations. It was begun about 800 years ago, and has been build>ng ever since. Occasionally it has been interrupted, but at no time has the scaffolding of the workmen been re.-mcved. It stands to day. The building is in the form of a Latin cross, and is four hundred and ninty feet in length, and one hundred and eighty in breadth. The height to the top of the statue is three hundred and fifty-four feet, but from all parts of the roof rise beautiful marble spires to the number of over a hundred, each of which is surmounted by a marble statue.
“ In every part of the building are niches for statues, of which there are about five thousand already in place, and room for thousands more.
“During the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries the building of the Cathedral was the subj.ct of great discussion all over Europe, and its history is like that of an empire. I have climbed to the'summit of almost every great Cathedral in Europe; even to twisting my way up to the slender spires of Strasburg, the highest in the world, until I stood four hundred and sixty-eight feet above the Cathedral floor, but from no summit is the view more impressive than from that Of Milan.
“ On the north, fifty miles and more away, are the snowclad Alps; to the southwest are the Apennines, westward and eastward, northward and southward, stretch the vast plains of Lombardy, covered with mulberry orchards, and bathed in the genial sunshine of an Italian sky. Numerous towns and cities dot the plain.
“ It is a sight long to be remembered.”
Carrespondenca.
A TRIP TO WATERTOWN.
Were you, gentle reader, ever in Watertown, Wisconsin ? If it has not been your fortune to have ever been there, then all I have to say is that you have never seen one of the most charming littl e cities in the West. Water town was once one of the most thriving towns in Wiscon-, sin, but reverses came; and, instead of Davy-Crockettizing, it really crawfished. It went backwards; the population steadily <tecreased. But now it is beginning to wake up. A college was started in the city, and, from the time of its establishment, a new energy has been infused into the inhabitants, and soon the place will be what it was some fourteen years ago,—no, not what it was then, but a still brisker place.
Well, let me tell you of a visit thither. You all, or at least most of your readers, know Father Corby—one of the most genial and good-hearted then that ever lived, kind and affable to all, heis a favorite with all classes of people. To everyone visiting the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Watertown, he extends^that welcome which makes all persons perfectly at home. It was he himself
46	THESCHOLASTIC.
who showed us around his instistution. And allow us to say a word or two about this College.
In the course of time the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart will be one of the first educational institutions in the West. Situated in the centre of the State, with good railroads running close to it,“it must naturally draw to it students from all parts. It consists of two buildings, one 100x50, in which classes are taught;' and another 90x45, used for the chapel and private rooms. There are some eighty acres of ground surrounding the buildings, and owned by the College, which afford plenty of room for recreation to the students, and for buildings to be erected in the future.
’ Rev. Father Corby, C. S. C., is the President, and is as popular with students and professors there as he was in former years at Notre Dame. He took us with him to see Rev. Father Brown, C. S. C., his worthy Director of Studies, who is doing plenty of hard work at Watertown in directing the studies of the students and teaching. We also saw Rev. Father Lilly, C. S. C., the accomplished Musician, who received us with his wonted hospitality.
Mr. Maher, C. S. C., Bro. Gabriel, C. S. C., and others also, gave us a hearty welcome.
Having taken a view of the thriving College with Fr. Corby, I wended my way to St. Bernard’s Church, about a quarter of a mile from the College. There I was greeted with a shake of the fist by Rev. Fr. Condon,- C. S. C., whose face seemed to beam with joy, and who extended us a greeting in fine Irish style.
St. Bernard’s Church—now in process of construction— will be one of the finest and largest Churches in the West. Its cost when finished will be somewhere in the neighborhood of §100,000. The corner-stone was sent over from Ireland, and was taken from the celebrated Rock of Cashel. Rev. Father Corby and his parishioners are deserving of all praise for their enterprise and good taste in erecting such a magnificent church—The style is Gothic, the design being made by the eminent architect, Mr. Keely, of New York.	. •
I was well pleased with my trip to Watertown, and will certainly accept Fr. Corby’s invitation to repeat my visit. One remark more'only will I make,‘which is, that for shipping boxes they are----well, never mind. If they see this letter they will understand.	X. Y. Z.
Galveston, Texas, October 12,1874.
Editor of The Scholastic—Will you print an item or two from this place “ away down South in Dixie ?” You will? Then here you have a couple to put in print.
St. Mary’s College is now beginning to look up. The number of students here is very large, and we expect more. Under the management of Father Carrier, C. S. C^we will soon bring St. Mary’s, Galveston, up to an equality with any house of education in the country.
You are well acquainted with Father Carrier—you know of his learning,'his energy, his zeal and bis perseverance ; but you do not know how he has displayed these qualities here. He has never been known to shirk hard work, and he has not done so here. He has really done more than every one expected of him, though what was expected of him was very much.	.
Nor have the Professors been idle. All of the many endeavors of the worthy President have been heartily seconded by them. The^tudents have caught the contagion,
and study and hard work characterize all and each of them’
We are daily expecting Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., at’ Galveston. He intends, we believe, to give a number of Missions in the State. Late advices from Austin state that Fathers Spillard and Jno. Lauth are both in excellent health.	. C. G.
•	Cincinnati, Ohio, October 19,1874.
Mn. Editor,—Knowing that many of the readers .of The Scholastic are ever pleased to read a line or two about St. Joseph’s College, in this city, I have concluded' to write you a short letter.	'
The College here is in a most flourishing condition Under the able guidance of Rev. Peter Lauth, C. S. C., the Institution flourishes with a vigor which is truly surprising: The students have over-crowded the house, so that there will be a grave necessity in the course of this year or the -next of adding to the already extensive buildings, now completely occupied.	1
. Under the efficient supervision of Bro. Boniface, C. S. C the classes move along in excellent order, the students devoting all their time to hard study, while the teachers of the different classes give them that aid without which all study would be useless. St. Joseph’s College has a most excellent corps of teachers, and will, most undoubtedly, take a place among the educational establishments of the country. So long as there is such a man as Rev. Father Lauth at the head of it, it can know, no such word as fail.	K.
Montreal,' Canada, October 16, 1874.
Dear Mr. Editor—St. Laurent flourishes this year even more than in years past. There are over tbree-hun-dred students attending class in the various departments, and more are expected. If things continue as prosperously as they are at present we will find the new building too small and will necessitate the erection of another college:
Rev. L. Geoffrion, C. S. C., remains at the head of affairs ably seconded by Rev. W. Meehan, C. S. C., Rev. R. S. Shortis, C.- S. C.. and others. Rev C. Lemay is our excellent Prefect of Discipline
The “Spectator” has entered upon its second year of usefulness, and will no doubt give you plenty of news concerning St. Laurent—more than I can give, or perhaps ihore than would be proper for me to ask you to publish.
With the best wishes for your success out in Indiana, we remain '	.	’	'
Yours, '	A. H.
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
OJYZNTZDY FACTORY-'
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	.	-	15c.-
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	.	- 25e.'
Choice Mixed Candy	-	-	35c.
Caramels ------ 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25 c.
Proportionately	Prices to AVliole-
sale Casli Buyers.	"
WANTED—For Cash—Five or ten tons of Maple Sugar
• Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
■ ■ _	■ o24-tf •
THE SCHOLASTIC.
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
FOUNDED IN 18-12.
CHARTERED IN 1844.
THIS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hnndied students.
Situated near the t.ake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad, it is easy ol access from, all parts of the United States.
Terms
Matricu’ation Fee.
§ 500
. Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (.Latin and Greek included). Washing and Mending of Linens, per session of five-months, -------- iso 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each -	- 10 00
Instrumental Music, - -	--	-	-	-	12 50
Use of Piano, -	-	-	-	- -	- -	-10 00
Use of Violin, -	.	-	- • -	-	-	2 50
Vocal Leesons-J GeneraI Class Principles, • -	-	- 10 00
'ocal lessens ( Vocal Culture, -	- •	-	-	15 00
Elocution—Special Course, -	-	-	-	-	- 5 00
Uss of Library, (per session) -	-	-	-	1 00
Drawing, -------	-	15 00
Telegraphy -	-- --	-	-	-	-*-10 00
Ute of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus	-	-	2 00
( Classical Course, -	-	-	- 1G 00
Graduation Fee, •< Scientific Course, -	-	-	- 10 00
(Commercial Course, -	-	5 00
Doctors' Fees and Jftdicines at Physician's Charges.
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the University are charged extra, -	-	-	‘	-	-	35 00
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first Session begins on the 1st Tuesday of September; the second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. LEMONNIER, C. S. C.
BOOTS & SHOES.
--o-
TO THE STUDENTS!
Before Buying Your Boots and Shoes,
—IVE INVITE—
YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION
—TO—
OUR LARGE and COMPLETE STOCK,
SELECTED WITH GREAT CARE
—AND—
Superior to any ever offered in this City.
WE FEEL WARRANTED IN SAYING
— THAT—
FROM OUR FACILITIES
—AND—
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE
*	•	—IN THE—
Boot and Shoe Business in South Bend,
We can offer greater inducements to buyers than other dealers.
We keep Honest TFbrA:, Clean Stock, Latest Styles, which we will sell at Low Prices.
We pledge ourselves to please all who may favor us with a call.	Respectfully,
D. H. BAKER, & Bro.,
1OO Michigan Street,
. o24-2m	South Bend, Indiana.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
-----------o-
M. LIVINGSTON & CO!;
94, Micliigan St., Soutli Bend, liid.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURNISHING GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found bn our shelves.
Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever teen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clotlling is dieaj>. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Clotlis, Cassi« meres and "Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
HORTON & PALMER,
DEALEBS IN
Pianos. Organs, Guitars, Stools, Covers, Strings,
SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS,
AND ALL KINDS OF
MUSICAL MERCHANDISE.
--o---
Instruments tuned and repaired in the best manner and at the lowest prices.
Ho. 72 Washington street, - South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
Oser Coonley's Drug Store, ' t	South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the
University, members of the College Societies, etc., etc., Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring! oM-tf
48
THE SCHOLASTIC.
“THE SCHOLASTIC,”
A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO
THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Published Weekly, Dur ng Term-Time,
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DANIE, INDIANA.
81.00 T»ER YEAR.
THE “Scholastic’’ is the title of a neat little paper published every week, except in vacation, at the University of Notre Dame. The chief object of this paper is to keep the parents and friends of our Students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline at this University and at St. Mary's Academy, and of the progress of their sons and "daughters in these two institutions. For this purt ose. regular weekly reports are given, consisting of the names of those who deserve, by their excellent conduct, to be recorded on the Roll of Honor, and who by their perseverance and industry deserve special commendation from their various professore and teachers. Other reports, relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic students, etc . also find place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately in-forrr ed on all that concerns their children.
The paper also opens a field for aspiring young writers, who might otherwise, through timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactive; while many articles of an instrnciive and literary character, from writers of mature mind and ability, render “The Scholastic11 a valuable publication for all who desire variety and utility in their .reading. “The Scholastic 11 consists ot sixteen wide two-co'umn pages, ten of which will be occupied with reading matter and the remainder witu advertisements.
Notice to Advertisers:
The Publishers will receive a limited number of Advertisements for “The Scholastic,'1 and have arranged upon the followingI:stof
prices: On'e Page,	{per month,) -	-	-	-	$10 00
- One Column	“	-	-	-	--	600
Half Column,	“	....	4 00
One-Third Column, “	-	-	-	.	-	2 50
One-Eighth Column, “	-	-	~	-	1 50
Address,	Editob of THE SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Michigan Central Railroad
Time Table.
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central Rail-
road leave Niles as follows:
TRAINS EASTWARD.
Night Express, ----------	12.45	a.m
Mail. -----------	9jo a.m
Day Express. ----------	12.12 a.m
Accommodation, - -- -- -- -- 7.35 p.m Atlantic Express	- - - - - 8.55 p.m.
Way Freight, ------	-	..	-	8.00 a.m
TRAINS WESTWARD.
Evening Express, -	-	-	.	-	-	-	- 2.35 a.m
Pacific Express, -	--	--	--	--	4.40	a.m
Accommodation, -	--------	- 9.25 a.m
Mail ------------	3.57	p.m
Day Express -	--	--	--	--	- 4.35 p.m
Way Freight --	-------	-	1.45	p.m
AIR LINE DIVISION.
EASTWARD.
Mail—Arrives in Niles -------- 9.15 p.m
Three Rivers Accommodation -	-	-	-	- . -	- 7.40 p.m
Atlantic Express	- 9.0up.m
Way Freight ---------	-	10.30 a.m
.	WESTWARD.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles	-	-	- 6.05 a.m
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	-	3.45 p.m
Pacific Express -	--	--	--	--	- 5.05 a.m
Way Freight- -	--	--	--	--	- 5.05 p.m
SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Trains leaxe South Bend—8 15 a m, 1110 a m, 3.00 p m, 6.30 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8.42 a m, 11.40 a m, 3.30 p m, 7.00 p m
Leave Niles—6.30 am, 9.20a m, 12.45 p tn, 4.35 pm.
Arrive nt South Bene—7.05 a m, 9.£5 a m, 1.20 pm, 5.10 pm.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.00 am, 7.i-0 pm.
“	“	Arrive at Niles—9.30 am, 7.30 pm.
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive—7.00 am, 9.50 a m, 1.15 p m, 5.05 p m.
Leave—8.20.am. 11.15 am, 3 05pm, 6.35 pm.
Sunday Tbains.
Arrive—8.30 a m, 5.30 p m.	Leave—9.C5 a m, 7.05 p m.
H. E. SARGENT, Gen'l Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, AgentNotreDame
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
1'
I
I
L. S. & M. SHIA IL WAY.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.-
2.35 a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.30; Cleveland, 2.35 p. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.38 a. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p. m. ; Cleveland, 10.20
12.27 a. m. (No. 4), special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. m.; Buflalo 4.05 a. m.
9.11 p. m. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 P. M.
7.54 m. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a. m„ Cleveland 7.05 a m., Buflalo 1’10 p. at.
3.55 p. m. [No.70], Local Freight. ’
GOING WEST.
3.20 a. at. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. at.	-
4.50 a. at. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago, 8 00 a. ar.
5.55 p. at. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives a1 Laporte, 6 55; Chicago, 9.10 r. at.	'
4.51 p. jc. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 5.45; Chicago, 8 00.
8.00 a. at. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. at, Chicago 11.10.
720 a. at. [No. 71J Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. OAKY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PaKSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
flS'RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Q|) Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and-Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Spri ngfleld Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
leave. Arrive.
*9:30 a.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a;m.
♦4:10 p.m.
t6:30 p.m.
♦8:00 p.m
♦4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m, ♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 ,m,
Kansas City Exp, vill, Ill., ana
iresSj via Jackson-Louisiana, Mo.
$9:00 p.m. |7:15 a.m.
$9:45 p.m. §7:15 a.m
♦ Except Sunday.- t On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex cept Saturday, i Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Tfains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains. JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO
X.OVX8VXXXS N. ALBANY & CHICAGO B.B.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 12, lb73, trains pass New Alban} ana Salem Crossing, as follows:
GOING NOETH.	G 0 IN G S 0 N T H.
Pass....
Freight.
Freight.
Pass....
.7 29 p ar. .2.48 A. at. .8 57 p. ar. .9.24 a. m.
Pass ..................823	p.x.
Freight..............10	47 a m.
Freight.......4.45	A.at.
Pats.................11.23	A.at.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent
PEMSILVAWA CENTRAL DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Three daily Express Trains, with Pall man's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh,, Philadelphia and New York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m 1 Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train	“	“	5.15 p. m. I	“	“	6.41 a.m.*
3rd train	“	“	9.00. p. m. |	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannrfield -with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.	.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jb., Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Pmelphja.
F. R. MYEK8, Gen'l Pass arid Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. L’LELLAN D, Ass’t Gen’l-Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day.	.