The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Volume VI.	NOTRE DAM, INDIANA, JUNE 28, 1873.	Number 42,
-	— -	.	-	—	-	-	—. a	■	।	.. ■	,
Commencement at Hotre Dame.
[Special Correspondence of the Chicago Tribune.]
South Bend, Ind., June 26.—The Commencement exercises of the University of Notre Dame and St; Mary’s Academy—’the twin institutions of learning near this town— took place yesterday and to-day. The visitors, who were more than numerous, came from all parts of the country. The weather was extremely warm during the two days, detracting in some degree from the pleasure of the occasion. The hotels were filled, and hundreds of persons were driven to the hospitable shelter of the University and Academy, where everything was done to make their sojourn agreeable. President Lemonnier and Professor Lyons, of the University, and the Sisters in the Academy, did all in their power for the comfort of their guests. The country was in the full bloom of summer, and the scenery along the banks of the river and the shores of the lake looked more lovely than ever. The fine buildings and pleasant grounds of the institution were neat and orderly.
THE FIRST DAY AT NOTRE DAME.
The proceedings at the University began at 6 o’clock, Wednesday morning, when Solemn High Mass was celebrated in the chapel, the following named clergymen officiating: Celebrant, the Rev. A. Lemonnier; Deacon, the Rev. J. C. Carrier; Subdeacon, the Rev. M. J. Toohey. The Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne, deliverd an address. Notwithstanding the early hour, the edifice was filled with worshippers.
THE EXERCISES.
The literary exercises were held in Washington Hall, a large apartment in a building away from the University proper. The hall is nearly square, with galleries on three sides and a stage in front. The drop-curlain bore an effigy of the Hon. George Washington, the father of his country, the boy who, by all accounts, never told a lie, the man who “ fit ” in the Revolution and whipped the Britishers, for all of which everybody is truly thankful. Facing the stage was the audience, consisting of the fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, cousins and sweethearts of the young gentlemen who were to make their bow to the world, bidding it good-morning, and bidding farewell to the school days which would exist for them no more, except as a green spot which memory will ever cherish. The audience was brilliant as a whole, and beautiful in part—the fair part. There were ladies dressed in the light costume, of summer, and gentlemen correspondingly attired, the ladies»exhibit-ing taste in all departments of their outfit, the gentlemen being, as usual, particularly felicitous in the selection of neckties.
The exercises were opened at 8 a. m., by a march, “ Pocahontas,” played in tune by the College Band—a combination of brass instruments, drums, and fifes—and the boys, of course, applauded with the enthusiasm of boys. The University Quartette, four violinists, played in excellent style, and then the curtain was rung up, revealing a table and reading-desk where the ambitious youths were to make their debuts.
Mr. Charles J. Dodge, son of ex-Senator Dodge, of Iowa, stated that upon him was conferred the honor and pleasure of reading the poem of the Alumni, composed by the Rev. M. B. Brown, whose health did not permit him to read it. Air. Dodge was equal to the pleasant task, and did the lines almost full justice. “Psyche” was the subject. The versification was smooth. Alusic, “ Light Cavalry.”
Air. T. F. O’Alahony, oftheclassof’73, delivered an address in Greek, his subject being “The Greek Language." The
ladies were charmed with it. Alost of the men didn’t understand it. The manner of delivery was pleasing.
Mr. E. AIcS weeny, of the class of’74, delivered the address from the law class, “ Equity ” being his topic. He placed equity before the common law, basing it upon Divine and immutable principles. The oration was quite interesting in matter and manner. Alusic, “ Pretiosa.”
Air. E. B. Gambee made the Latin address, his subject being “De Auctoritate Philosophise.1’ Like the dissertation in Greek, it was interesting to the ladies, and the entire audience generally applauded.
Mr. J. D. AIcCormick, of the Class of ’73, undertook to prove that science was the handmaid of religion. He defended revelation, and contended that science and religion in no way conflicted, but that the former was simply the helpmeet of the latter. The piece was well spoken. Applause at the end.
Air. J. W. AIcAlister, of the Class of ’73, represented the commercial department, talking about “ Commerce.” He defined commerce, complimented the Phoenicians for their early enterprise on the sea, and gave his opinion that commerce was the forerunner of civilization, and liberty. He thanked the Faculty for their kindness to the class, and ventured a few poetic remarks from Tom Aloore about the shattered vase. The commercial element responded bravely in applause.
Prof. AI. T. Corby, A. M., sang “ Good-Night Aly Child,” in admirable voice and style. An uproarious encore drew him out again, when he gave a martial air, entitled “ France, Ever Glorious,” in a way that evoked still further manifestations of approval.
Mr. R. Keegan amused the audience by delineating the particulars of a visit to Notre Dame twenty-nine years ago, when the University was in its babyhood. He was the first white visitor who stayed with the founders of the institution, only Indians having preceded him. His reminiscences were quite amusing.
That ended the intellectual feast The Band played a quickstep while the audience evacuated the hall, having been instructively entertained by the proceedings of the morning On the whole, the programme was more successful than the run of Commencement exhibitions. The declamation in some cases was really excellent, and there was a conspicuous absence of “inflation,” and of the glittering phrases which immature orators are too apt to inflict upon their hearers. This was a decided improvement, for which the heads of the University, to whose good sense the elimination of the nonsense is due, dr serve the everlasting gratitude of the audience.
Next came dinner. Over 1,500 persons sat down in the refectories, and partook of the bountiful fare provided.
AQUATIC.
While the Alumni were banqueting, the college boys were on the lake shore witnessing a race between two boats known as the Pinta and Santa Alaria. The crews were finely-developed young fellows who handled their oars with skill and propelled their crafts at amazing speed. The Pinta won by four lengths, travelling the course, three-quarters of a mile, in 3:17. The winners were cheered, as winners usually are.
THE EVENING was devoted to intellect. The weather inside the theatre was persecutiugly hot. The band worked off some music, the ladies engineered their fans with graceful rapidity, and the gentlemen soaked their handkerchiefs on teeming brows. The perspiration was almost an inundation. There was a convulsion of the curtain and up it went, allowing the audience to view
330	THESCHOLASTIC.,
THE ORATOR,
Mr. John J. Fitzgibbon, of Chicago, editor of the Western Catholic, a tall, rather handsome, perspiring gentleman. His subject, “Religion the Basis of Education,” was suited to the place and occasion. It was ably treated ,in solemn, sonorous periods, the body of the paper betokening careful study and research. From this standpoint the line of argument was well laid, and undoubtedly the intellectual portion of his auditors were delighted. The enervating heat rather distracted the attention, but the speaker bore up bravely until he soared aloft to the empyrean in his peroration. The applause was frequent and flattering.
Prof. Corby sang two pretty pieces with marked effect, and then came the Thespians to play “Damon and Pythias.” For amateurs the acting was refreshingly natural, Mr. Charles J. Dodge distinguishing himself as Damon, and Mr. Charles A. Berdel as Pythias.
It was midnight when the day’s work ended, a day full of interest to both actors and audience. All were satisfied with the abundance of good things, intellectual and not intellectual, of which they had partaken, and went to bed satisfied but weary.
SECOND DAT.
A welcome shower of rain came down this morning to refresh the earth. It made green things greener, allayed the dust, and reduced the temperature for a few hours in the early part of the day. Before noon, however, the rays of the sun beat down hotter than ever.
The concluding exercises were held in the theatre, beginning at 8 o’clock in the morning. The brilliant audience of yesterday again occupied the seats, with the addition of ex-Vice-President Colfax, who sat in a conspicuous place in front, and was an attentive listener to all that took place.
After an installment of music, Mr. Mark M. S. Foote spoke the valedictory,—an unusually good production, delivered in distinct voice and with proper emphasis.
HONORS.
There was more of the really excellent music, which relieved the proceedings, and then Bishop D wenger conferred the degrees. [We refer our readers to the list given elsewhere.—Ed. Scholastic.]
the END.
Bishop Dwenger made the closing address, speaking words of wise.counsel, warning those going out in the world always to be gentlemen and Christians, doing their duty as citizens, and alwavs having in view the glory of God.
The meeting then adjourned for ever.
Conferring1 of Degrees.
The Degree of Master of Arts is conferred on v John A. Zahm, Notre Dame. Ind.
Alphonsus Boisramme, Paris, France.
Thomas Flanagan, Shreveport, Louisiana.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws is conferred on Rev. Dominic Hengesch, of Luxemburg, Germany.
The Degree of Master of Science is conferred on Hiram B. Keeler, St. Mary’s, Kansas.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts is conferred on Thos. F. O’Mahony, Lake Forrest, III. Mark M. S. Foote, Burlington, Iowa. Eber B. Gambee, Adrian, Mich. Dennis J. Hogan, Chicago, Ill.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science is" conferred on Thos. J- Dundon, Clarksburgh, Mich. John D. McCormick, Lancaster, Ohio. Patrick J. O’Connell, Summitt, Ill. Thos. P. White, Versailles, Ky.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws is conferred on Timothy E Howard. South Bend, Ind, Wm. C. McMichael, Mishawaka, Ind.
A Medical Certificate is awarded to John W. McAlister, Nashville, Tenn.
The Degree of Master of Accounts is conferred on Henry C. Cassidy, Youngstown, Ohio. Emilius Morancy, Versailles, Ky. John W. McAlister, Nashville, Tenn. Matthew B. Torbett, Nashville, Tenn. Francis Donnelly, Woodstock, Ill. James L. Noonan, Cleveland, Ohio. Chas. W. Hodgson, Clarksville, Tenn. Henry N. Saylor, Antwerp, Ohio. Francis W. Phelan, St. Louis, Mo. Vincent M. Baca, Las Vegas, New Mexico. Gerard Stack, Freeport, Ill.
Edward L. Spitley, Lincoln, Ill. Patrick J. Cooney, Cleveland, Ohio. George Ruger, Lafayette, Ind. James E. Hogan, Joliet, Ill.
Wm. Fletcher, St. Louis, Mo. John Quill, Chicago, III. Sebastian Wise, Alton, Ill. Otto Waterman, Nashville, Tenn. Louis O. Hibben, Chicago, Ill. John A. Stubbs, Galveston, Texas. Wm. S. Gross, Jerseyville, Ill.
FIRST HONORS* are awarded to the following young gentlemen: senior department.
NEW:
E. Halpine,	A. J. Mooney,
C. Walter,	V. M. Baca, M. Bastarache.
RENEWED : J. D. McCormick,	P. J. O’Connell, M. M. S. Foote,	T. P. White, T. J. Murphy,.	W. J. Clarke, T. J. Dundon,	C. A. Berdel, C. J. Dodge,	W. W. Dodge, E. 8. Monahan.	
	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
	Renewed.—S. Marks.
J. Dore, A. Kleine, D. Salazar.	NEW: J. Stubbs, E. Milburn, W. Breen.
•	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
New.—rA. Koch.
Renewed.—H. Faxon, C. Faxon, J. O’Meara.
r
’j
SECOND HONORS] are awarded to the following young gentlemen: SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Morancy,	G. W. Crummey,
■ J. W. McAlister,	F. Phelan,
E. G. Graves,	T. Hansard, •
F. H. Buter,	H. C. Cassidy,
J. E. Devine,	J. J. Gillen,
J. Harrington,	E. L. Spitley,
♦ A Lemtiful Gold Medal is awarded to the recipients of the First Honors.
+ These honors are simply an Honorable Mention.
h f
*
1
THESCHOLASTIC:	331
G^ Stack,	F. M. Scrafford,
S. F. Valdez, E. N. Mullen, W. Myers,	J. F. Wolfe, P. Jacobs, E. McSweeney. junior department.	‘ • F. Miller,	,
H. Quan, W. T. Ball,	L. Bnsch, ’ V. McKinnon,
W. Kinzie, B. Baca,	G. Amann,	. C. J. Black,
W. Dexter, E. Holt, T. McGee, S. McMahon, N. J. Mooney,	J. Golsen,	• A. Kreiter,	■ - J.Mullarkey, W. Morgan, A. B. Reid, S. Wise. MINIM DEPARTMENT.
E. Raymond, J. Cooney, C. McKinnon, E. Cleary,	T. Nelson,	’	<■ A. Murphy, W. O’Hara, F. Carlin, C. Parker.
The Class Prizes, determined by a written competition, have been won by the following young men:
[We must remark here that Mr. T. F. O’Maho ST, of the Senior Class, in consideration of having already graduated in Seienee, and being engaged also during the year just past in teaching, gene.rously declined to compete for the prize in his Class, wishing to leave this honor entirely to the students proper.]
CLASSICAL COURSE.
SENIOR class. •
The Quan Gold Medal—
Mark M. S. Foote, Burlington, Iowa.
junior class. ‘
■Chas. J. Dodge, Burlington, Iowa.
SOPHOMORE CLASS.
Edward J. McLaughlin, Clinton, Iowa.
FRESHMAN CLASS.
Thos. J. Murphy, Ravenna, Ohio.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
SENIOR class.
Thos. J. Dundon, Clarksburgh, Mich.
junior class. (Vacant.)
sophomore class.
Wm. W. Dodge, Burlington. Iowa.
FRESHMAN CLASS.	'
John J. Gillen, Lawrence, Mass.
* COMMERCIAL COURSE.
-	SENIOR CLASS.
Henry C. Cassidy, Youngstown, Ohio.
Prize for Elocution (gift of Rev. T. Sullivan, Laporte, Indiana.)—
0. Waterman, Nashville, Tenn. •
Prize for German (the gift of Rev. A. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, Indiana)—	■
Louis Best, Milwaukee, Wis.
• DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS.
Premiums were awarded to the following students in the Preparatory Course:
A. A. Allen, First Arithmetic, (Sr.)
M. Bannon, Progress in Third German, -U. S. History.
F.	H. Buter, Theory in Second Book-Keeping, Progress in Penmanship.
J. B. Begue, Third Grammar.
W. T. Bryant, Second Geography. „	*..
J. A. Brown, Proficiency in Penmanship. .
G.	H. Crosby, Execution in Second Book-Keeping, First Arithmetic, Geography, Second Grammar.. -	.
A. Costello, Vocal Music, First Reading. -
G.	W. Crummey, Penmanship, First Grammar and for Letter-Writing.
J. B. Crummey, Grammar, Second German, Cornet; Band.
Peter Downey, Fifth Latin, Second Grammar, Second Orthography.
H.	Dulaney, Fourth German, Second Orthography.
J. E. Devine, Second Arithmetic.
M. J. Foley, Seventh Latin.
T. J. Fitzpatrick, Cornet pand. •
J. Flynn, Second Reading.
J. J. Gillen, Sixth Latin, Modern History, Piano.
W. Gavitt, Proficiency in Third German. •
A. G. Greening, U. S. History.	,	.
D.	J. Hogan, Christian Doctrine.
Alfred Horne, Machine Drawing, Second Orthogra- • phy, Sax-Horn.	•
T. F. Hansard, Fifth Greek.	.
E.	Halpin, Progress in Penmanship.
H. Hug, Proficiency in Penmanship.
J. Hand, First Reading.	*
J. Ireland, First German.	.
P. Jacobs, Map Drawing.
A. Kreichgauer, Progress in Penmanship
E. Kimm, Progress in Third German, Violin.
E. N. Mullen, Letter-Writing, First Grammar.
E. McSweeny, First Class of Law, Fifth Latin.
B. P. McNaughton, Third Arithmetic, (Second Division.)
P. S. O’Meara, Fifth Latin, Proficiency, in Third Ger' man.	.
P. O’Mahony, Eighth Latin.
P. O’Sullivan, Geography.	,
E. J. Plummer, Letter-Writing, First Grammar.
J. S. Schmidt, Machine Drawing, Flowers, Second Arithmetic, Violin.
Jos. Scherer, First German, Third Grammar, Arithmetic, First Orthography.
M. B. Torbett, Guitar.	-
W. Van’t Woud, Architectural Drawing.
W. Campbell, Piano.
L. Watson, Piano.
Geo. Amann, First Grammar, (Second Division).
W. Breen, Fifth Greek, Proficiency in Penmanship.
W- T. Ball, Execution in Second Book-Keeping, Translation in Third German.
B. Baca, Theory in Second Book-Keeping, First Grammar.
P. Brosseau, Third German.	•
J. Carmody, Second Orthography—Third German— for Reading.
A.	Crunkilton, Second Grammar.
M. Casey, Fourth Arithmetic.
J. Casey, Fifth Arithmetic.	. .
332	T H E S C HO L A S T I C .
B.	Casey, Fourth German.
W, Dexter, Fourth German, Second Geography, First Reading, Second Orthography.
W. Darst, First Reading.
EL Enneking, Second Reading, First Orthography.
J.'Ewing,. Second Arithmetic, Sixth Latin.
F. Frazee, First Orthography.
C.	Furer, First Arithmetic.
R. Golsen, Third Reading.
G. Gross, First French.	•
D.	Glickauf, Third Orthography.
E.	Holt, Fourth German, for progress Second Orthography.	‘
C. Hake, Second German, for Reading, Third Orthography-	•
W. ELake, Second German, for Reading.
A. Kreiter, First Reading, Third Arithmetic.
W. Kinzie, Penmanship—for Proficiency.
L. Loser, Second Orthography.
J. Lynch, Third Grammar.
A. Schmidt, Drawing, Grammar, and Orthography.
C. Clarke, Fourth Arithmetic, Second Orthography.
H. Quan, Arithmetic, Grammar, and Orthography.
J. Lambin, Second German, for Letter-Writing.
. N. J. Mooney, First Grammar (Second Division), Third German, First Orthography.	- ■
L EL Munn, Landscape Drawing. -
F. W. McOsker, First Geography—for Proficiency in Penmanship.
W. McMahon, First Geography, Third Arithmetic.
V. McKinnon, Penmanship—for Proficiency.
J. S. McNally, Penmanship—for Proficiency.
J. McIntyre, First Reading.
Tnos. McGee, Penmanship—for Progress.
S. McMahon, First Orthography.
A. McIntosh, Fourth German.	’
H. Nirdlinger, Second German, for Penmanship. -
J. C. Nevin, Third Orthography.
E. G. Ohmer, Figure Drawing, and Flute.
J. O’Connell, Penmanship—for progress.
W. Ohlen, Vocal Music.
D. O’Connell, Piano.	’
W. Pollard, Eighth Latin, Second Geography, First Grammar (Second Division), Third German, for Grammar.
H. Quan, Second Orthography.
A. Reid, Sixth Latin, First German, First Grammar.
C. V. Reid, First Grammar (Second Division).
C. Ruger, Seeond Grammar—for Translation.
F. Smyth, Vocal Music.	.
W. Rumely, Clarionet.
T. Sauvageot, Second Grammar, Third Orthography.
H. Shephard, First Orthography.
J. Tobin, Fifth Arithmetic.
L. Van’t Woud, Cornet.
F. Weisenberger, Christian Doctrine (Special Class), Second Orthography. -
F. Wittelsbergeb, Third Arithmetic.
S.	Wooley, Third Orthography.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. Faxon, First Grammar—First Orthography—First U. S. History—First Reading—First Penmanship—First Geography.	'
E. Raymond, First Arithmetic—First Geography—First Reading—First Penmanship.
T.	Nelson, First Christian Doctrine—Second Arithmetic—Second Penmanship.
C. W. McKinnon, Second Christian Doctrine—Third Reading—Third Penmanship.
Thos. Hooley, Fifth Arithmetic—Fourth Reading— Fourth Penmanship.
C. Faxon, Second Geography—First Grammar—First Orthography—Second U. S. History.
J. O’Meara, Third Arithmetic Second Orthography.
A. Koch, Third Arithmetic—Third Grammar.
A. Weatherbee, Second Geography, Second Grammar.
F. Van de Mark, Second Reading—Third Geography.
A. Murphy, Second Orthography—Second -U. S. History.	■
C.	Walsh, First Christian Doctrine.
R. Healy, Second Christian Doctrine.	.
D.	Green, Second Arithmetic. -
J. McMahon, Fourth Arithmetic, -	-
C. Parker, Fourth Arithmetic.
J. Nelson, Third Geography.
F. Carlin, Third Orthography.
. E. Cleary, Third Orthography, -
A. Baker, Fourth Orthography.
W. O’Hara, Third U. S. History.
J. Cooney, Second Reading.
E. Miller, Third Reading,
E. O’Connor, Fourth Reading.
Commencement Ezercises at Saint Mary’s Academy.
The programme at this Academy was arranged to commence at three o’clock on yesterday, and despite the attraction of the boat-race at Notre Dame, from which St. Mary’s is distant but a mile, the auditorium of St. Cecilia Hall was filled with the parents, guardians, and friends of the young ladies and little misses of this excellent institution long before that hour. The exercises consisted of essays-by the graduating class, singing, and instrumental music. The hall was tastefully arranged, and a little before three the scholars commenced to file into the hall by an entrance leading to the stage, down which they advanced in couples, making a low bow to the audience, and retiring to the seats provided for them at the rear and sides of the stage. The graduating class came last, and were seated in a semicircle on the stage proper, eleven as fine-looking young ladies as any admirer of American beauty would wish to see. The entertainment began with a piano solo, “Reminiscences from Norma,” by Miss Todd, who proved a fitting performer to inaugurate so excellent a programme. Miss Cochrane followed with an essay, “The Struggle of life,” and Miss Lange read her contribution, “ Clouds with Silver Linings,” Miss Lassen giving in turn a few happy thoughts on “Wonders.” A trio from “Belisario” was then sung in most excellent style and harmony by Misses West, Ward, and Haggerty, Miss E. Black presiding at the pianoforte. .Then Aliss Quinlan gave illustrations from “Norma” on the piano, and Misses Shea and Todd contributed to the pleasure of the audience with essays respectively entitled,. “ Grains of . Sand” and “Monuments,” the latter a composition of much thought and feeling.
Miss Spiers executed, on the piano Chopin’s “Third Ballad” in A-flat major, after which a very interesting essay was read by Miss Haymond in a style and intonation of voice rather surpassing that of the preceding ladies. Her effort was marked with ease, confidence, sweet diction and poetic thought, the subject-being “ Voyage of Life.” Miss Zell was scarcely less entertaining in her off ring on “Transformation.” • In referring to the transformation of nations from empires to republics, and nice versa, Miss Zell gave utterance to the following beautiful and patriotic sentiment: “Yet we do hope that our own great republic
THE SCHOLASTIC.	333
will stand unchanged until that last great transformation called the millenium takes place.” A Capriccio Brillante from Mendelssohn, was the next selection for the piano, and Miss Black performed it very sweetly, afterward playing the accompaniment for the “Butterfly Waltz” to the vocalization of Miss Rose Devoto. Miss E. King gave some very pretty thoughts in well-rounded sentences on the subject of “ Light,” whereupon Thalberg’s fantasia from “ Somnambula ” was performed on the piano by Miss Kate Young. That the lady is an artist was clearly indicated by the first note she touched, and she played with more force than generally characterises lady performers. Miss Crowley read her essay on “ Chains,” which, like all preceding ones, pointed a moral, and was the last one of the programme. The paper on which the young ladies had copied their essays was cut in such fantastic shapes as would indicate that “ ancient heraldry ” is a study at St. Mary’s. Miss E. Plamondon followed with Von Weber’s Htforceau da Concert, Opus 79, a very difficult and veiy long'piece of music. The young lady gave it a thorough interpretation, albeit it was very warm work. A chorus by the general vocal class, accompanied by Miss Kate Young at the piano, closed the afternoon’s entertainment, and then a great rush was made by the audience and scholars for the shady banks of the inviting river which flows so near the school grounds. '
The exercises at St. Mary’s this morning commenced at precisely eleven o’clock in St. Cecilia Hall. The programme opened with a grand march arranged for seven persons at the pianos and two at the harp. During the performance the young misses and ladies, dressed in white, with blue and pink sashes and knots, and white wax fus-chia pendants in the ears, came in upon the scene in the same mauner as yesterday afternoon. The Misses Todd, Spiers, Lassen, Black, Young, Quinlan, and Prince presided at the pianos, while the Misses Plamondon and Wicker swept the chords of the sweetly-sounding harps, for the march, which was followed by a vocal trio, “ Spirit of Light and Beauty,” by Garcia, exquisitely rendered by Misses Foote, Ward, and Devoto. The young ladies met with a rapturous burst of applause in return for their pleasing effort.
The Annual Distribution of Premiums was then proceeded with, the ceremony being abbreviated for want of time. The awards, and for what special excellence they were awarded, will appear in the Annual Catalogue of the Academy. Miss Mary Wicker, of Chicago, took first premium for excellence in harp-playing.- Following the awards to the Seniors, Miss Ward sang, in sweet voice and with pleasing effect, “ Happy Birdling.” Miss Ward possesses a flexible mezzo-soprano voice, which she uses very judiciously. Miss Plamondon accompanied Miss Ward on the piano. The Intermediate Department now received the awards due that class,—the young ladies stepping forward and receiving their premiums from the hands of Bishop D'wenger, who received the low courtesies and grateful looks of the girls with good-natured smiles. Misses from Chicago and other' places in Illinois seemed to get the greater’ portion of the premiums in this department as well as all others. Between this distribution and that of the Junior Department, Miss L. West sang an aria with variations by Proch in an artistic manner, and with a powerful, cultivated voice of wonderful range. Miss Kate Young, who had accompanied Miss West in the song, now performed Haydn’s Te Beam, and then came the little misses for their premiums. This concluded, the event ' of the day, the Cantata Tableaux, Miriam’s Song of Triumph came next in order, the entire vocal class singing in the choruses, the Misses West, Ward, Devoto, and Black appearing in solos. The Cantata was taken as to theme from Exodus, chap. 15: “ So Miriam, the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand: and all the women went forth after her with ’ timbrels and with dances.” The singers appeared in full dress, which is a departure from customs of former years, when plays have been given with the young ladies dressed in costumes. To-day no costumes were used except for the figurantes in the tableaux. The Junior entertainment followed, Miss Lulu Tinsley reading a very amusing introductory; then a descriptive chorus was sung by all the Juniors. Miss Belle Quan, of Chicago, recited her sorrows in’ pretty
rhyme. Then more of the chorus, followed by a rhymed expei ience, recited by several of the little ones, addressed, in a humorous way, to the bishops as a sort of complaint. The little girls who told of their troubles with German, French and Music, were intensely amusing. The little ladies received many floral tributes. Their musical appeal in the upper register to the newspaper reporters to write in their behalf shall be heeded. We sincerely pity the sorrows of the poor little girls. After filing their complaint, as it were, the little ones repented and came back to the front and told the bishop, in equally felicitous verse, how well they liked their teachers and their school. A medley of popular ballads, patriotic and comic songs was then sung, and with an extremely ludicrous Chinese dance, the Juniors made their exit.
Miss Plamondon, a young, lady pianist, by the way, in whom Chicago may take just pride, performed a fantasia from the “Huguenots” by Satter, and the medals were then conferred upon the graduates. A coronation chorus was sung; “Past,” “Present” and “Future,” the Valedictory, was read by Misses Haymond, Zell and Crowley. A few closing remarks by Bishop D wenger, Senator Dodge and Mr. Colfax, and then with, a grand closing march, on harps and pianos by the same hands that performed the entrance march, the Commencement of 1873 for St. Mary’s was over, and before this is published the young ladies will have started for their homes all over the Union.
Among the notables present were Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne, Indiana; Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess, of Detroit, Michigan; ex-Senator Dodge, of Iowa; Hon. P. B. Ewing, of Ohio; ex-Vice-President Colfax, Gen. W. H. Lynch, Hon. B. L. Davenport and R. M. Hooley, Esq. The departing trains were all laden with parents, friends and scholars. All who have visited St. Mary’s this year will ever remember it as one of the most pleasant episodes of their life.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
Graduating Medals were conferred on
Miss Elizabeth King, Ravenna, Ohio, 1
“ Bridget Crowley, Cairo, Illinois, J 66
.	“ Aline Todd, Plymouth, Indiana.
“ Kate Zell, Peoria, Illinois.
“ Alice Shea, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Kate Haymond, St Paul, Minnesota.
“ Mary Cochrane, Chicago,.Hlinois.
“ Minnie Lange, Muskegon, Michigan.
“ Mary Lassen, Chicago, Illinois.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC. .	-
The Graduating Medals were conferred on
Miss Emily Plamondon, Chicago, Illinois.
“ Kate Young, San Francisco, California.
Crowns, par excellence, for Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability and Correct Deportment, were awarded to Misses Bridget Crowley, Elizabeth King, Bay Reynolds, Mary Comer, Bridget Grace, Esther Boyce.
Crowns of Honor awarded to Misses Alice Shea, Aline Todd, Katie Zell; Mary Cochrane, Wilhelmina Lange, Catherine Haymond, Margaret Letourneau, Romualda Manzanares, Henrietta Miller, Rose Devoto, Ella Quinlan, Fannie Snouffer, Annie M. Clarke, Mary Brown, Elizabeth Black, Mary Kearney, Mary McGuire, Lavina Forrester, Louisa Pfeiffer, Julia Fanning, Elizabeth Scheiber, Rosemary Spier.
First Honors awarded to Misses Elizabeth Kiel, Annie Lloyd, Annie T. Clark, Jane Noonan, Louise Beckman, Annie Ried, Agnes Conahan, Joanna Valdez, Elizabeth Daley, Mary White.
Second Honors awarded to Misses Mittie Ward, Rosemary Green, Ida Wilder, Mary Prince, Louise Lilly, Nora McMahon, Amelia Keline, Sarah Chenoweth, Mary Riley, Mary A. Roberts, Annie O’Connor, Nellie Foote.
Third Honors awarded to Misses Mary Lassen, Alice Mast, Nellie Langdon, Mary Wicker, Kate Finley, Kate Casey, Anabel Stockton, R. Klar, M. Lyons, E. Plamondon, A. St. Clair, Addie Roberts* Mary Dillon, Rose McKeever, Hanna McMahon, Emily Haggerty, Belle Wade, Lillie West, Lillie Dent, Julia Kearney, Nellie Heedy, Josephine Walsh.
Honorably Mentioned for Neatness, Order, Amiability,
334
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Politeness and Correct Deportment, but in consequence of not_having been at St Mary’s the First Session, they do not receive the Honors—Misses Louise Dragoo, Josie Locke, Lulu Henrotin, Rate Wickham, Mary Black, Mary Kane, Belle Turnbull, Kate Ismon, Rose Rocesco, Emma Mann, Annie Garies, Amelia Bosser.
’ JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Crown of Honor for superior excellence in Neatness, Order, Amiability, Politeness and Correct Deportment awarded to Miss Ella Richardson.
Crowns of Honor for Neatness, Order, Amiability, Politeness and Correct Deportment awarded to Misses M. Walsh, G. Kelly, M. Brown, A. Noel, C. Walker,. E. Lange, A. Smith, J. Thompson, K. Joyce, M. Martin, E. Jackson.
First Honors awarded to Misses M. Hepp, M. Thompson K. Schmidt, N. Vigil, A. Lynch, M. Carlin.
Second Honors awarded to Misses M. Faxon, M. Hil-- dreth, E. Lappin.
Third Honors awarded to Misses T. Schulte, A. Walsh, A. Paulsen, K. Hector, M. Lowery, L. Tinsley, E. Orton, D. Allen, C. Smith.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Crown of Honor for Neatness, Order, Amiability, Politeness and, Correct Deportment, awarded to Miss A. Ewing.
First Honor awarded to Miss M. Ewing.
Second Honor awarded to Miss M. Reynolds.
Third Honors awarded to Misses T. Cronin, L. Walsh, M. Ware.
Crown of Honor awarded to little Mamie Green, for being a good little girl.
Honorably Mentioned for Polite, Amiable and Correct Deportment, but in cousequence of not having been at St. Mary’s the first session they do not receive honors: Misses M. Kaseburg, A. Koch, N. Mann, M. Schultheis.
The Graduates’ Sociable.
During the student’s stay at college there is ever a close relation manifest between him and his professors and superiors, and as he advances in his course this bond of friendly feeling is ever drawing closer and closer, until they come to look upon one another as members of the same family. And especially is this the case at Notre Dame. Those nobler feelings of the heart are here exchanged between the members of the Faculty and the students. And how could it be otherwise when we reflect how those good and pious men sacrifice their lives to give to the student a thorough education—moral,‘mental and physical? And thus it is that the iumates of Notre Dame are held together by the strongest ties of our nature. This mutual feeling of friendship and love manifests itself in various ways; and perhaps never more clearly than it did on the evening of Sunday last, when the young graduates were invited by the Rev. President of the University into the large parlor, where were assembled the members of the Faculty and several invited guests. Especially were we pleased to notice there Mrs. Howard and Mrs. Ivers, for the company of ladies always adds much to the pleasure of our social gatherings, as was so well expressed by Prof. Clarke and Mr. Foote, when called upon to respond to the toast to the ladies.
As this was for the purpose of congratulating the graduates of ’73 on their success, the Rev. President proposed that the first toast be to them, and called upon Rev. Father Gillespie to respond—who, in well chosen terms congratulated the young gentlemen on the successful issue of their labors, and wished them a prosperous and happy journey through life, hoping that they would prove an honor to their Alma Mate)', their parents and themselves, their country and the Church,—and in conclusion called upon Prof. Ivers to reply in behalf of the Class of the year in. . which he graduated. The Professor in the course of his remarks complimented the young gentlemen on their success, and hoped they’would continue their studies,—for graduation is but the beginning of study,—and after giving the advice which years of experience had taught him, he called upon Prof. Howard to represent his Class, who likewise spoke of Commencement as the beginning of life,
and that those who were to graduate in a few days would then be but taking the first step in life; to them indeed the graduation was truly a beginning.
But Rev. Father Condon, when called upon to speak, denied that the young graduates were just commencing life, and about to take the first step; he maintained that they had commenced life a long time since, and had taken many steps already. He was pleased to be able to compliment them by saying that their steps had always been in the right direction.
When Prof. Howard had got through he called upon Mr. O’Mahony to speak in behalf of the graduates of ’73:
Air. O’Mahony spoke briefly, thanking the members of the Faculty, and others, for the compliments which they had bestowed upon the Class, and in his turn called upon Rev. Father O’Rourke to respond in behalf of the honorary Alumni, who responded, and was followed by Rev Father Murray of St. Louis, and Prof. Von Weller.
Mr. McCormick responded to the toast to the Rev. President, and in a few words expressed those feelings of love and gratitude which the members of the graduating Class, as well as the other students of the College, have, do, and will ever entertain towards Rev. Father Lemonnicr.
The Rev. President, in his reply to those sentiments so well expressed by Mr. McCormick, welcomed the young gentlemen of the graduating Class to the halls of their Alma Mater whenever in after-life their duties might permit them to return to this blissful retreat of their early years.
But perhaps one of the most pleasing events of the evening was the reply of Mr. Nelson, of Chicago, to the toast proposed by Rev. Father Lemonnier to the Church. This, however, was'not in prose, but in song—or as he called it, “a little ditty,” which was happily rendered, and yery appropriate.
Dr. Lundy wished the young gentlemen good health by hoping that they would never be obliged to call in one of his profession.
And thus the evening passed pleasantly and quickly by. We must not however omit the viands, rich aud varied, which graced the table on the left, and which went the rounds. The occasion was indeed, all in all, a most happy one, and one that will long be rememberd by the Class of 1873,—and as was expressed by many of those present in the course of their remarks, we hope this reunion will long continue to be a practice at Notre Dame, for it is like the embiace of a parent before the parting,—it makes one perceive more clearly the friendly ties which exist between professor and student.
athletic.
Excelsior Base-BaH Club,
The Best Club of Notre Dame.
Director— Bro. Camillus, C.S.C. President—William J. Fletcher. Secretary—Louis 0. Hibben. Treasurer—John P. Quill.
Censor—W. S. Meyer.
Field, Captain of First Nine—John A. Stubbs.
“	“	Second Nine—Robert Kelly.
“	“	Third Nine—L. Van’t Woud.
The following young gentlemen of the Junior .Department compose the victorious Nine:
W. F. Fletcher, Catcher; L. 0. Hibben, Pitcher; J. Quill, Short-Stop; R. Hutchings, First Base; F. McOsker, Second Base; J. Stubbs, Captain, and Third Base; M. Blake, Left Field; T. Culliton, Centre Field; W. Gross, Right Feld. Substitutes—W. Meyer, J. Wilson.
Atlantic Base-Ball Club.
Organized April 5,1866.
Director—Bro. Eugene, C.S.C.
President—Henry F. Clarke. Vice-President—James Dwyer. Secretary—Joseph A. Roberts.. Treasurer—William Hughes.
SCHOLASTIC.
335
Field, Captain of First Fine—John Sheil.
“	“	Second, Fine—Joseph P. Deehan.
Censors— 4'J- Maley’ -Lensois j McCunam
The following compose the First Nine:
M. Fitzgerald, Catcher; M. 'O’Day, Pitcher; J. A. Roberts, Short-Stop; John Sheil, Captain, and First Base; H. F. Clarke, Second Base; J. Dwyer, Third Base; M. Sheil, Left Field; W. Hughes, Centre Field; Rich Dougherty, Right Field.
Juanita Base-Ball Club.
Organized 1868.
Director—Bro. Emmanuel, C.S.C., President—J. B. Comer.
Vice-President—J. L. Ireland.
Treasures'—J. E. Kelly.
Secretary—J. B. Crummey.
Field, Captain of First Fine—G. L. Ruger.
“	‘‘	Second, Fine—J. B. Comer.
“	“	Third, Fine—J. O’Brien. ’
zr.f J- Hoffman, Censors-^ Greenin^
{ J. Brennan.
Star of the East Base-Ball Club.
Director—Bro. James, C S.C.
President—J. McAlister.
Vice-President—A. J. Mooney.
Secretary—F. W. Phelan.
Treasurer—A. Allen.
Field, Captain of First Fine—W. W. Bartlett.
“	“	Second Fine—A. A. Allen.
Collegiate Nine.
Composed of Students of the Collegiate Department.
Director—Bro. Norbert Joseph, C.S.C.
President—E. B. Gambee.	•
.	Secretary—M. M. Foote.
Treasurer—H. W. Walker.
Field Captain—C. J. Dodge.
Scorer—E. J. McLaughlin.
'	members of nine.
D. J. Hogan, Catcher; C. J. Dodge, Pitcher; E. B. Gambee, First Base; C. Berdel, Second Base; W. W. Dodge, Third Base; M. M. Foote, Short Stop; D. E. Maloney, Left Field; W.- B. Clarke, Centre Field; H. Walker, Right Field; E. D. Murphy, Substitute.
Young America Base-BaH Club.
Director—Bro Camillus, C.S.C.
President—W. Breen.
Secretary—J. Dore.	■
Treasurer—T. S. McGee.
. Field Captain of First Fine—F. Butters.
“	“	Second Fine—J. Arentz.
“	“	Third Fine—D. Glickauf.
Field Director—S. Woolley.
Mutual Base-BaU Club.
Director—Bro. Camillus, C.S.C.
President—J. Devine.
Vice-President—W. Ball.
Secretary—J. O’Connell.
Treasurer—A. Reid.
Censor—O. Tong.
Field Captain of First Fine—0. Waterman.
“	“	Second Fine—J. Wanbaugh.
“	“ Third Fine—F Kreiter.
Field Directors—P. Brosseau, B. Bacca.
. Notre Dame Boating Club. .
Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier, C.S.C.
President—Prof. M. A. J. Baasen.	'
Recording Secretary—f D. McCormick.
Treasurer—P. J. O’Connell.
Commodore—D. E. Maloney.	•
Captain of “ Pinta ”—H. W. Walker.
Captain of“ Santa Faria ”—D. E. Maloney.
CREW OF THE “TINTA.”
Stroke Oar—D. J. Hogan.
Second Oar—T. E. Fitzpatrick.
Third Oar—H. W. Walker.	'
Bow Oar—J. L. Ireland.
Coxswain—A. Horn.	•
CREW OF THE “SANTA MARIA.”
Sroke Oar—D. E. Maloney.	'
Second Oar—E. G. Graves.
Third Oar—M. B. Torbett.
Bow Oar—E. J. McLaughlin.
Coxswain—J. B. Comer.
The club numbers sixteen active members and twenty-six honorary members. The active members not mentioned in the crews above, are T. J. Dundon, P. J. O’Connell, J.' W. McAllister, T. P. White, C. Berdel and J. D. McCormick.
The Regatta.
June 25.
Long before the time for the boat-race arrived, one might have noticed the crowd moving lakeward, in order, no doubt, to get a good view of the sport which the programme promised for p. m. The banks of the lake were well covered with "people, anxious to witness the forthcoming race. At the appointed hour the crews moved out of the house, and rowed slowly over to their respective starting posts, the stake-boat, in which were Rev. Father Lemonnier, Rev. Father Murry, Gen’l Dodge and Prof. Baasen, who had preceded them and were prepared to give the signal. In a few moments the crews were at their posts awaiting the word; and as they sat there in almost breathless silence we could not but admire their uniforms, which consisted of blue shirts for the Pinta crew, and white ones trimmed with red for the Santa Maria. At length Rev. Father Lemonnier gave the signal for them to start, and the oars began to ply, amidst the applause of the spectators. The Santa Maria took the lead, and the “boys in blue” kept about a boat’s length behind until they reached “ the other end of the lake” when they gained in the turn and took the lead, which- they held, winning the race by more than two boat-lengths.
As the “ boys in blue ” passed the boat-house a hearty round of applause was given them by the spectators, and the drum and fife proclaimed their triumph with a martial air. The Pinta, which thus won the race, made the complete course in four minutes and twenty-eight seconds. But it is only fair for us to say that though the young gentlemen of the Pinta are all excellent oarsmen, yet their boat is much superior to the other, and we feel that had the boats been equally matched the race would have been, much closer and perhaps victory would have been to the other crew. We make this remark, however, with no feelings of favoritism. The race over, the crews rowed to the boat-house, where the crewof the Pinta—composed of the following young gentlemen, Captain and low-oar, H. W. Walker; third oar, 0. Berdel; second oar, T. Fitzpatrick ; stroke oar, D. J. Hogan; coxswain, J. Ireland—were presented with a rosette on which was pinned a beautiful gold anchor. As to weight, the two crews were about equally matched; but as to oarsmanship, it would seem to a spectator that the crew of the Santa Maria pull together better than the other crew. The race was a very fine one/ and was a source of considerable pleasure to those who witnessed it; still, the heat of the hour would seem to suggest another time for the future, say at six p. m. G.
336
SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Schulastw.
Published every Week during 'Term Time, at
- NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana. _
■ TERMS: One year....................  $2	00
One session (5 months)........1 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Society Day.
Society Day is becoming one of the most interesting annual reunions of the students of Notre Dame. It is peculiarly the Students’ festival as, owing to its proximity to Commencement Day, and at the same time its separation from that final event by several intervening days, it is deprived of the presence of outsiders—for those who are at a distance postpone their coming until the Wednesday following, and those residing in South Bend reserve themselves for Commencement Day. Society Day is, then, a strictly family festival; and to judge it by the evident satisfaction of the large number of students who formed the audience, it is one that has gained the high appreciation of them all.	,
For the benefit of our friends who have not had the pleasure of being present at the pleasant meeting of Society Day, we state that it is the reunion of all the Societies of the College: Religious, Literary, Scientific, Dramatic, and Musical; the last of which furnish the music, and the others are represented by one member of each Society, chosen by-his fellow-members to sustain the credit and renown of their respective Societies in a speech or an essay on some subject connected with their Societies.
’ On account of the many College events of great interest that are reported in this number of The Scholastic, we cannot give space to a full and detailed report of the speeches made, though we would be delighted to do so. We must confine ourselves to some brief remarks.
At four o’clock p. m. the students assembled in Washington Hall. The University Cornet Band opened proceedings with a cheering piece. The first address was from The Archconfraternity,
and was well delivered by P. J. O’Connell, who in manly tones, with pure and lofty sentiments utterly devoid of cant, showed the beneficial influence of Religious Societies. He gave unstinted praise to other Societies, and maintained that the groundwork of their usefulness was the principles which it was the first object of Religious Societies to impress upon the souls of the members, and argued the benefit of Religious Sodalities, from the fact that when literature and science are divorced from Religion—when the pursuit of knowledge is carried on for mere knowledge’ sake, and not directed by religious principles—instead of being a blessing, they are a curse. We were pleased with the high tone and noble sentiments of the address. Mr. O’Connell has all the qualifications of a good speaker except practic e in gesture; but time will remedy that, and make his gestures as pleasing as his voice.
• The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association was ably represented by Thos. J. Dundon, whose subject
was the Origin of .Scientific and Literary Societies. The Address showed considerable research and excellent judgment in the choice of the immense amount of material he had to select from. In a few boldly-drawn strokes he sketched the history of Literary and Scientific Associations from the time of Ptolemy Soter to the present day. We were not surprised to hear Mr. Dundon give the Church its due, in attributing to her influence the revival of learning in Europe after the irruption of the Northern barbarians and the almost total destruction of the old Roman civilization; yet we were well pleased to find that his reading had not been confined to the narrow and bigoted works of nonCatholic writers, who, either through inability or prejudice, fail to comprehend the great work of the Church as the civilizer of mankind and the safeguard of society. Mr. Dundon makes a fair appearance on the speaker’s platform, and though his voice is not strong he makes good use of it, modulating it well and enunciating his words with agreeable distinctness.- His gestures were in the main good, but there is room for improvement. ■
The Thespian Dramatic Association selected W. W. Dodge as their representative. In a neat little speech he introduced a declamation entitled “The Moor’s Revenge,” which be rendered in a manner that showed he had not only good command of limb and feature, but also that he fully understood and entered into the sentiments of the various persons connected with the Moor’s Revenge. Mr. Dodge’s appearance on platform or stage is commanding, his voice excellent, his gestures natural, and his whole appearance, action and delivery demonstrate the benefit of his early training in the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association and the perfecting of his training in the Thes.-pian Society. We have often been pained to see a well-conceived oration fall flat upon the ears of the audience from want of sufficient previous training in elocution on the part of the orator,—especially when we knew that the young man possessed within him the-raw material of an orator, which, if properly prepared, would have obtamed for him a success where he found only failure. Mr. Dodge is a good example of the benefit of fine elocutionary training coming to the aid of superior mental gifts.
The St. Edward’s Literary Association was represented by Thos. J. Murphy, who first gave a synoptical history of the Society, paying a well-merited eulo-gium upon its founder and first Director, the Rev. Father • Brown, and upon its present Director, Rev. Father Lemon-nier. He recounted the labors of the Society during the past year, which consisted not only in Debates and Essays, ' but also in the more arduous task of editing a paper, the name of which is the “ Literary Gem,” which’ though unknown to fame except to those directly connected with the society, is, Mr. Murphy assured us, no small paper, and had a bright future before it. As we are not directly connected with the Society we cannot give our own opinion of it, but if “Me.” is one of the editors or contributors, and if “FlyCatches” is one of their nine—or ten, as the case may be, more or less—we can conscientiously second the young gentleman’s praises of the paper. We hope that next year many of the scintillations of the “Gem” may enliven the columns of The Scholastic. After the few introductory sentences, Mr. Murphy enlarged upon his main subject, “The Duty of Students.” His views were sound; and it was a pleasure to think that his views of the duties of students towards God, themselves, their parents and teachers,
T
THE SCHOLASTIC.	*	337
•were not only theoretically correct, but that the vast majority of the students of Notre Dame put them practically into effect. .
Mr. D. E. Maloney appeared in behalf of
The Scientific Association.
His subject was “ The Beneficial Influences-which Scientific Pursuits have upon Society." He first answered the objection that some theories which have been advanced, and ’ many phenomena which have been adduced, are in direct contradiction to the truths of religion. He showed that as the same God is the author both of science and of faith, they cannot be in contradiction with each other; that the revealed truths Of religion rest upon the infallible word of God, and the discoveries iu science upon the fallible researches of men; that if at first some seemiug contradiction arises between faith and science, it comes from the fact that the scientific researches are not sufficiently complete, and that further investigation will not only not be to the detriment of revealed truths, but an additional proof of the wisdom of those who, firmly based on the rock of faith, - pursue their scientific studies without being, dragged into the vague, whirling and agitated circle of incredulity. This objection fully answered, it was easy sailing through ■ the rest of the discourse, which brought out in vivid colors the trials and hardships of the pioneers of science, who had to contend against the fixed opinions of previous ages and the prejudices of men of their own time. Mr. Maloney is a pleasing speaker, and without being perfect in his ges-• tures he is perfectly at his ease on the plaiform and there-. fore natural in tone and manner.
The Address from the
Sodality of the Holy Angels, composed of students of the Junior Department, was read by H. H. Hunt. The Address was well written, but, doubtless from want of time for preparation, it was not read in that easy, agreeable style which we expect from the Juniors. Master Hunt has an agreeable voice and good appearance, —a talented, handsome lad in fact—and if we find fault with his reading, everybody knows it is because we know he can do much better. Perhaps we should not blame him, but the lateness of the hour he was called upon to prepare.
We may say the same of the address from
The Columbian Literary Society, represented by M. B. Torbett. We much prefer spoken addresses to those that are read from manuscript; but even when they are read they should be known by heart—thoroughly memorized,—and then if the writer is afraid of a treacherous memory he may hold the manuscript before him, lifting his head at times from his paper and casting a glance around to see how his audience are conducting themselves, and not have his face buried in his pages of manuscript. He should keep an eye on his hearers. We say this in general, not particularly of Mr. Torbett, who as a reader did well on this, we should presume, his first appearance, and no doubt will do better when more accustomed to the platform, for he has a good voice and fine appearance.
From
The St. Cecilia Philomatiiean Association, we are sorry to say, had a written address, when we expected a well-delivered speech. However, we must not be considered as regretting that the representative of the Society was W. P. Breen;—we wish he had spoken his well-written Essay on the Cultivation of Oratory, as it should have been, instead of reading it. The St. Cecilians have
always been noted for the attention they pay to good delivery, and some of our finest speakers are old St. Cecilians now belonging to other Societies. Let the present members take a note of it, and not go backsliding. Master Breen has a clear, ringing voice, well modulated, and his manner is perfectly unembarrassed. But throw away your paper, lad, after writing your speech; do honor to your memory, or you will never be an orator.
The Junior Orchestra
played several times during the literary exercises we have just mentioned. It was a pleasing, and, without offence to our young friends, an amusing sight, to see how well they played, and with what marked attention the little fellows followed the notes with their eyes and kept time. The violins—six of them—bowed well; the cornets did their duty by not coming out too forte, the clarionet behaved itself well, in spite of dry weather—this is our favorite instrument in ’ orchestra or band when well played; the flute and fife did well; the violoncello was too much in the background; the trombone and double-bass kept good time. In the closing remarks the orchestra was praised enough—but too much praise cannot be given to the director who has worked so indefatigably to produce the pleasing result which we witnessed in the exact execution of his young musicians.
A pleasing episode was a song by Professor Corby, who with his usual good nature and kindheartedness listened to the solicitations of his friends, and though only on a visit to Notre Dame, sang in his well-known style, that we are not musician enough to designate, much less criticise. The song was loudly applauded, and an encore was called for and sung.
We were sorry that the University Orchestra and the Quartet did not appear, but all the space allotted to musicians was occupied by the Junior Orchestra and
The N. D. U. C. Band,
The latter of which, after a few closing remarks wound up the exercises of Society Day, and all dispersed well pleased.
Ezerciscs at St. Mary’s.
The exercises on Wednesday afternoon at St. Mary’s were full of honor for her new graduates. If any one test can be made to cover the whole of a graduate’s study course it is that given- by the Essay. The sciences, each and all, literature, history, music, art, unite to enrich the Essay, to give it breadth, depth, interest and beauty. Every teacher • through an academic course has contributed to the merit of the Essay, and therefore it will always hold its own high place in the exercises of every seminary aspiring to the front rank. The nine Essays by the graduates at St. Mary’s were so many honors gained for their Alma Mater, as well as trophies of hard study and of general intelligence on the part of the young ladies. They were read with great distinctness and appropriateness. For the benefit of all succeeding graduates we will remark that those the most distinctly given and in the best key, were the most appreciated. Accordingly our ears received the most pleasure from Miss Zell and Miss King; then from Miss Crowley, Miss Cochrane and Miss Lange; then from Miss Lassen, Miss Todd, Miss Haymond and Miss Shea., .
Anyone privileged to look over the essays must have seen much to admire which ear did not take in fully,—as well as in the calligraphy of the beautiful title-pages and in the exquisite'miniatures fold devices of the covers. We
338
SCHOLASTIC.
have never seen anything of this sort more beautiful, and they proved that there must have been some one in the art department of St. Mary’s who, for youthful steadiness of hand, accuracy of eye, taste and skill, might well rival the illuminators and miniaturists of the convents of old. Whatever may be said of art in the world, it* has not yet died out of the Convent or Religious of St. Mary’s.
The musical performers on Wednesday and Thursday were taken from the third, second and first classes, without including in the latter the two graduates, Miss Plamondon and Miss Young, both of whom have certainly earned their gold medals. Miss Plamondon’s execution was distinguished for brilliancy, versatility and absolute freedom from false or slurred notes. It is seldom that a schoolgirl is seen to be such a mistress of her instrument. The Morceau von Weber as well as the Fantasia Sur les Huguenots, were given with a delicacy of execution which brought out the melodies in each, and even the Gregorian choral woven into the harmonies of the latter, with a beauty resembling golden embroidery on rich brocade. Miss Young excelled in strength and sublimity of expression, which was used very grandly in Haydn’s Te Deum, a piece of music worthy of the study which she had evidently bestowed upon it. Miss Black and Miss Quinlan, from the first class, were very happy in their performances. The Grand E i trance March, on Thursday, arranged by the head of the department especially for this occasion, from Goria, was accompanied by Miss Plamondon and Miss Wicker upon the harps, and was executed with a spirit worthy of the composition.
Miss West, Miss Ward and Miss Devoto, dis! inguished themselves in vocalization. Miss West sang with energy, precision and intelligence, and her high, keen soprano will never err unless on the sharp side of a note. Miss Ward has a voice of singular sweetness and even pathos, and her songs will always be delightful. Miss Devoto, if we mistake not, has a voice of. rich and varied capacity, and there is a charm about her singing when she is quite composed, which belongs of right only to the old Italian school. She can sing something better and grander than the modern opera airs. Miss Haggerty has a rich, full voice, of great value in the choruses—and we confess to a great joy in good choruses. For this reason we liked the Lobgesang from Mendelssohn, although very difficult of execution, arid especially Schubert’s beautiful Cantata, “ Miriam’s Song of Triumph.” The choruses, trios, duos, solos, were all worthy of praise, and the brilliant tableaux in the rear of the stage, representing the Hebrew women in oriental costumes, with timbrels, was no small addition to the success of the Cantata, to those who had eyes for the picturesque as well as ears for the full choral. We have omitted several worthy of notice, but the programme and premium list do them the justice which our crowded columns cannot.
The Valedictory, by Miss Haymond, Miss Zell, and Miss Crowley, the Past, Present and Future, uniting in one tribute to the beloved Alma Hater, as they were united by the same ribbon, was a beautiful idea beautifully carried out; and the valedictories themselves, and their enunciation by the young ladies, gave a more than passing pleasure to the audience.
The closing remarks, made by Gen. Dodge and ex-VicePresident Colfax, will be found in the reports taken from the Chicago papers.
The Triumphal March by the younger pupils on the pianos was a perfect triumph, and we remained to the last to applaud, as it deserved, this last exercise of the year 1873 at St. Mary’s.
We have no idea of closing our comments without giving our readersa glimpse of the Art Exhibition. Strange to say, nobody seemed to remember the really effective exposition of pictures in the upper hall of the Academy. We hope the time will come when reporters will be as ambitious to distinguish themselves as good critics of art, and as discriminating admirers of its beauties, as they now seem to be of music. We were glad to see that a firm basis had been laid for the prosperity of this important department by the study of blocks, groups of books, etc., (the best possible school -for practical perspective), the round, from eggs, cups, acorns, and other graceful objects, while the casts of heads, hands, etc., had furnished studies for pencil and crayon. In water colors there were flowers very beautifully drawn and colored, and illuminations from the beginners, of real excellence. In the oil there was one portrait, drawn and colored from a photograph, exceedingly creditable; and the copies in oil, of landscapes, marine and fruit pieces were far beyond any average merit; but we hope to see, another year, the thorough course begun in pencil, crayon and water-colors, carried through the oil-colors. There were two religious pictures in oil which made a wide departure from the rule of school exhibitions. As no names were given we respect this “ holy silence,” and content ourselves with sayiug that when such religious pictures, which are not copies, are produced in an institution, the initiative has been given to the noblest career of which art is capable. All honor to St. Mary’s, which has so perseveringly pursued the cherished aim of long years, and will, ere long, we believe, see herself the centre of such a school of Religious Art as her beautiful natural surroundings, her course of intellectual studies, and the meditative quiet of conventual routine would lead us to expect.
Our Visitors on Commencement Day.
A bright morning began the day; a cloudless sky looked beautiful, but created fears in the breasts of all that a very warm day was in store for them. And so there was; for although the sun by eight o’clock was well veiled with clouds, and signs of rain appeared in the southwestern sky, the day was sultry enough to bring out many exclamations in various tones—from the peevish, discontented, to the cheerful take-all-easy—the burden of which was the heat of the day.
Many of our friends arrived the evening before—but on the morning of Wednesday was the true “ gathering of the clans,” and all were received with a hearty welcome. Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, D. D., of Fort Wayne, was our honored guest, who presided with his accustomed grace and dignity over the proceedings of the day. Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess, D.D., of Detroit, also honored us with his presence.
Among our friends of the clergy we were glad to see • Rev. P. Callard, Marshall, and Rev. J.VanGennip, Dexter, Michigan; Rev. F. McGolrick, Minneapolis, Minnesota; Rev. August Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Rev. Patrick H. Cusack, Vice-President of the Seminary of St. Mary’s of the West; Rev. Eugene O’Callaghan, Tremont, 0.; Rev.
4
THE SCHOLASTIC.	339
H. B. Murray, St. Louis, Mo.; Rev. Andrew Eustace,Elgin, Hl.; Rev. Robert A. Sidley, Sandusky, 0.; Rev. T. M. Mahoney, Niles, 0.; Rev. John B. Carroll, Cleveland, 0.; Rev. Hugh O’G. McShane, Morris, Ill.; Rev. T. M Smyth, Cleveland, 0.; Rev. Win. McMahon. Elmore, 0.; Rev. H. Brown, Youngstown, 0.; Rev. John Hannon, Hudson, 0.; Rev. P. Pernin, Peshtigo, Wis.; Rev. D. Duehmig, Avilla, Ind.; Rev. J. Dunn, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. T. O’Sullivan, Laporte, Ind.; Rev. Lewis Brown, Cincinnati, O_; Rev. F. Barroux, Ecorse, Mich.; Rev. John Oechtering, Laporte, Ind.; Hon P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, 0.; Hon. S. Colfax, South Bend, Ind.; Hon. A. C. Dodge, Burlington, Iowa; Hon. J. K. Sullivan, Chicago; Messrs.Devines, and O’Connor, of Chicago; Mrs. Foote, Burlington. Iowa; T. Shea and daughter, J. Black, Esq., Milwaukee; Mrs. S. Walker, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Cochrane and sons, Chicago; T. Nelson, Chicago; Mr. Plamondon, Chicago; J. Graham, Chicago; Mr.Fletcher, St. Louis; Mrs. Quan and Miss L. Powers, Chicago; Misses C. Hughes and Spring, Cmcago; E. J. Hutchings, New York; Mr. and Mrs. Lauth. Pittsburgh; J. McHugh, Lafayette, Ind.; Dr. Von Donboff, Louisville, Kv.; Messrs. Kramer, Johnson, Morancy, Detroit; Quinlan, Cleveland ; Hake, of Grand Rapids; Pernell, Schmidt, J. Clark, Lambin, Schaller, J. V. Clark, Chicago; Hon. Mr. Butterworth, Dr. Grimes, Mr. McMichael, E. V. Bingham. E. Jer-negan of the Enterprise, Mishawaka. Ind.; D. Marsh, of the Register-, H. S. Fassett, of the Union-, Mr. Wills, Dr. Humphrey, Judge. Veasy, Mr. Birdsell, South Bend, Ind.; besides many others, whose names we did not learn.
At half-past eight o’clock the exercises began in Washington Hall, a full account of which will be found elsewhere.
It is scarcely necessary to state, except as a matter for future chroniclers, that everything—the literary exjrcises, the meeting of the Alumni, the Regatta the Dramatic Entertainment, the awarding of Degrees, passed off well, to the satisfaction of all, whose good humor bore up even against the heat of the weather, and that Commencement Day of ’73 bore testimony of the prosperous condition of Notre Dame.
Psyche.
Psyche reminds the reader rather of early English poetry than of later. It is such a poem as might have been written by a contemporary of Chaucer or of Spenser, rather than of Pope or of Scott. Its very meter suggests this comparison and contrast; for though the versification is not precisely that of any English poet, yet it reminds one continually of the old Italian models so beloved of dur early writers. But as Spenser’s exquisite ear added an Alexandrine to the Italian ottava rima, and thus made it perfect, so the' musical task of our reverend poet has taken the seven-lined stanza of Gascoigne and Sackville, and by changing the seventh pentameter into Spenser’s “ long resounding line,” has succeeded in attaining a stanza of most melodious sweetness.
In substance, Psyche is an emblem, being allegorical rather than narrative or descriptive; not that the latter elements are absent, but that the former rules, as it does in The Flower and the Leaf of the first master of this species of composition. Psyche, the human soul, awakes to consciousness, and is at once seized with the dominant passion of man—ambition. In her youth and innocence she attracts the homage of every one, until in her triumphant
progress, the crown of fame seems to be just within her grasp. Then are her friends at once inspired with envy, and her troubles at once begin.* Obstacles are thrown in her way, and, finally, wearied with her toils, she swoons into a fit which her enemies mistake for that of despair and death. But her good genius, the inspiration of heaven, still attends her, and she revives, still to pursue her toilsome journey. Her enemies, however, triumph once more by destroying in her this trust in God. Yet, though she has abandoned heaven, heaven still protects her, and so she triumphs in the end. But this triumph, won after forgetting her true and only friend, must of course be a barren triumph,—the fame to which, after so much toil, she has at last attained, proves but dead-sea fruit, beautiful to the eyes, but ashes and bitterness in the mouth—
“ The only solid joy is that which virtue brings.”
Were not the poem to be published in full I would make extracts of some of the most pleasing passages—that pathetic s'anza, the thirty-ninth, in which loss of friendship is so feelingly expressed,—or the thirty-second, which illustrates so well the first approach of doubt, or the twentyfourth, showing the ease with which innocence is led by craft,—or the sad reality pictured in the forty-fourth.. Id a word, the reader will here find that poetry in which the more pnre and simple ages so much delighted—and which the great poets have always proposed to themselves,—that poetry which clotheslnstruction in the garb of beauty and gives to her the voice of melody.
“Old. Boys.” '
- One of the most pleasing features of Commencement Day was the presence of the great number of old students who graced the festive occasion with their handsome, fresh-looking countenances. We do not mean those of many years back, who have settled down in life and become staid men of business, but those of last year and year before. At all corners of the ofd College we met them, but principally on the porch in front of the College did they congregate. All of them young, some had not yet ventured to try the effect of hirsute adornments-; others bad promising moustaches, and one—perhaps more, but one only of those we had the pleasure of accosting, came out in full beard. May they often return to Notre Dame.
Through the kindness of Denis Hogan, whose kind heart always prompts him to do good deeds, we have obtained the following list of Old Bovs, which we print for future reference. If the names of any are missing, blame not us:
C. K. Hibben, Nat. Wood, J. Lafferty, W. J. Cochrane, P. E. Cochrane, D. J. Wile, C. Hutchings, E. Shea, F. Nicholas, F. Dwyer, J. Ward, J. Noonan, W-Moon, H. Beckman, C. Hodgson, J. McFarland, F. Arantz, J. Hogan, F. Shephard, B. Lubn, J. McHugh, J. Alber, J. Hemsteger, L. McOsker, M. Gahan, J. Taylor, M. Keeley, E. Von Donhoff, R. Haynes.
Presentation.
The members of the Band did honor to themselves by giving a token of their appreciation of the worth and ability of their leader, Mr. J. H. Gillespie, by presenting him a handsome gold ring with a fine oriental amethyst.
340
SCHOLASTIC.
Regular Meeting of the Associated. Alumni, June 25, 1873.
In the absence of the President, the Bev. E. B. Kilroy, detained at home by his important duties, Prof. Broder, First Vice-President, handsomely presided over the meeting of the Associated Alumni. The regular business of the day was gone through, the reports of committees and Treasurer were accepted, etc. Dr. C. J. Lundy was unanimously elected an honorary member. The voting for officers for the coming year resulted in the election of the following:
President—Rev. D. J. Spillard, C.S.C., South Bend, Ind. First Vice-President—Prof. W. Ivers.
Second “	Rev. T. O’Sullivan, Laporte, Ind.
Secretary—Denis A. Clarke, Columbus, Ohio.
I'reasurer—Prof. T. E. Howard.
Orator—Rev. E. M. O’Callaghan, Fremont, Ohio. Alternate—Gen. W. F. Lynch, Elgin, Illinois.
Poet—Rev. N. H. Gillespie.
Alternate—T. F. O’Mahony, Lake Forest, Illinois.
After a long and interesting quasi debate on miscellaneous business the Association adjourned to meet on June 24, 1874.	D. A. Clarke, Secretary.
Musicis very nice. very. But of all the abominations of desolation I commend you to a brass cornet practice next door when you are trying to write up the fine strains that are produced in public.
Crowded Out.—Several reports of Societ’es and other interesting College matter hare been unavoidable cowdid out. It is customaiy to pub'ish one or two numbers of The Scholastic during vacation. ?a wh;ch these re oorts will appear. ___________ __ __________
We regret that from press of work we sent to the printer last week a communication from a valued o -rrespondeht, without reading it all over,—having perfect confidence that both matter and style were comme d faut,—and thereby allowed to be printed what was not intended for publication but only for our o.wn perusal. We refer to that p irt of the report of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society which refers to the toast “ College Days.”
The remarks on the speaker who replied to the toast were evidently meant for our eyes alone, and not for publication, for although all who know the parties would perceive that just the reverse of what was written was intended, yet those outside might take the words as they stand. We take all the blame upon ourselves, and hope our esteemed friend, the speaker on the occasion, will accept our apology.
To the Travelling Public.
F. Parmelee & Co., Omnibus Line and Baggage Express, office, 156 Dearborn St., Chicago, having increased their facilities, are now prepared to deliver baggage to and from all parts of the city, and they make it a specialty to deliver promptly, and with as little delay as possible.
To prevent confusion at the depots, passengers, by giving their checks to their agent on the trains, need not have any further trouble of its reaching its destination.
Passengers delivered to and from hotels and railroads.
Orders promptly attended to .by leaving word at the office.
Alumni Reunion.
The meeting of the Alumni was a source of great satisfaction to the members, and was a proof of the more lively interest the Alumni take in the affairs of the Association. After the Banquet, which took place at half-past four o’clock, as has been customary at previous banquets a few toasts were proposed and responded to. We must say that as far as we are concerned we would prefer not to have toasts, unless they be very short, and the reply shorter still. However, there was so much eloquence and heart in the replies on this occasion that we might become a convert to toasts if they always brought out such eloquent remarks. Still we hold to an old adage concerning brevity. •
The first toast was:	.
“ Oun Holt Father Pope Pius IX, and the' Apostolio Church, of which he is the visible Head. May he long live to govern the flock entrusted to his care by Christ, and see the confusion and repentance of his enemies—the enemies of Christianity.”
Responded to by Rev. Eugene M. O’Callaghau.
The Order of the Holt Cross : Zealous and learned in its members, ever true to the noble object of its existence, that of cultivating the heart and mind of youth. May it continue to receive its reward from the hands of a grateful public, and under the guidance of its pious and venerable head, attain that prominence amongst its sister-orders which it so justly deserves.”
Responded to by M. H. Keeley.
“Old Tim^s and Old Friends. Happy to meet, sorry to part, happy to meet again. “Should auld acquaintance be forgot and never brought to mind?” May the memories of the past throw a golden light down the dim vista of the future, shedding a lustre of bliss around our world-weary souls”
Responded to by Rev. N. H. Gillespie.
“ Our Flag, and its Gallant Supporters the A.rmt and ' Navy. Hurrah for the Red, White, and Blue I Long may we enjoy the protection it grants us and our sacred liberties.
, Responded to by Gen. Wm. J. Lynch.
“ American Colleges,—The growing pride of our people,— the successful rivals of their long famed sister schools of classic Greece, fair France, sunny Italy and cultivated Germany. Long may they be the shapers and embellishers of the minds of future men who are to become celebrated in the world’s history as bold adventurers into the undiscovered realms of science.”
Responded to by Prof. P. Broder.
At the meeting previous to the banquet, Dr. Lundy was elected an honorary member, and the officers of the Asso-c’ation were elected. Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., of ’64, South Bend, Ind., was elected President for the coming year, and Rev. Eugene M. O’Callaghan of ’56 was chosen as orator for next year.
The poem, by Rev. M. B. Brown, and the oration, by John J. Fitzgibbon, were of too much importance to be treated of in this short notice of the meeting, and we refer our readers to the regular report of the speech, and to the poem itself which we give in our columns this week.	'
The young gentlemen of the Commercial Course who did -did not receive their Diplomas should not forget that a serious deficiency in any one branch of the course is’sufficient to deprive them of their Diploma. It should be well borne in mind’that good spelling is absolutely required, and that it will be insisted upon more and more every year. Bad spelling has been the cause of more than a few not receiving their diplomas.

J
THE SCHOLASTIC.
341
Donations of Books to the Circulating Library will be welcome, and the donors’ names will not be forgotten.
We are informed by Very Rev. Father General that we may surely rely on a Professor of Vocal Music and a Professor of Painting from France for the next scholastic year.
The Honorable Mentions (corresponding to the ac-cessits of former years) were awarded to the students whose proficiency was commendable, at a meeting of the Faculty held Sunday, June the 29th.	.
At the last accounts from Very Rev. Father General, he was on his way to Our Lady of Lourdes, and thence to Rome. He attended with 60,000 pilgrims the great festival held at Chartres in honor of Our Lady of Chartres.
It is probable that an accomplished gentleman will be secured for next year to drill the students in various military tactics—the object being to afford the students bodily exercise which will improve their strength and give them ease of motion and grace of manner.	‘
The Gold Prizes in the Collegiate, Classical and Scientific Departments were the finest ever given at Notre Dame. The Quan Gold Medal was simply superb. We hope that next year other medals will bear the names of some other of our kind friends. Generosity in that line is not misplaced.
The Circulating Library will be put on a splendid footing for next year, and will have many volumes added to its shelves before the return of the students.' A charge of two dollars per year, §1.00 per session, Jwill be made for the use of books. ’Tis little enough, considering the rich treat it will afford to the lovers of reading.
Rev. Fathers T. O’Sullivan of Laporte, and Rev. A. Oech-tering of Mishawaka were each donors of gold prizes. The former, of the prize for Elocution, awarded to O. Waterman, of Nashville, Tenn.; the latter, of the prize for German, awarded to Philip Best, of Milwaukee, Wig. We heartily thank those generous friends for the interest they take in our boys. ______________________________
Hoaoyable Mentions. -
The students who did not obtain premiums and whose progress and application during the .year was worthy of honorable mention are—	-
Collegiate Course.—R. Staley, St. Louis, Mo.; W. Clarke, Columbus, O.; D. E. Maloney, Harvard, Ill.; C. Berdel, Chicago, Ill.; H. Walker, Chicago, Ill.; C. Walter, Fort Wayne, Ind.; E. Graves San Antonio, Texas.; E. Monahan, Louisville, Ry..- T. Noel, Paxton, Ill.; F. Devoto, Cairo, Ill.; B. Dorsey, Gillespie, III.; M. Bastarache, Buc-touche, N. B. -	-
Commercial Course—J. B. Comer, Hastings, Minn.; Valerio Baca, Las Vegas, N. M ; C. Butler, Wayne, Mich.; J. Drake, Sag Bridge, Ill; T. FJannagan, Nashville, Tenn.; J. Harrington, Lena, Ill.; J. Hoffman, Chicago, Ill.; J. Hale, Bunker Hill, Ill.; A. Hess, Wheeling, West Va.; J. McDermott, Galveston, Texas; A. Mooney, Green Bay, Wis. ; F. St. Aubin, Detroit, Mich.: L. Sanders, Battle Creek, Mich.; F. Scraffbrd, Seneca,,Kansas; C. Spears, Morrison, III.; Geo. Tobin, Concordia Landing, Miss.; S. Valdez, Taos, N. M.; J. Wolfg, Garfield, Ill.; J. Devine. San-Antonio, Texas.; F. Egan, Nashville, Tenn.; W. Meyers, Portsmouth, Ohio.
Preparatory Course.—B. Baca, Las Vegas, N. M.; W. Bartlett, Marshall,Ill.; L. Burridge, Benton Harbor, Mich.; A. Chapoton, Detroit, Mich.; P. Lilly, Cedar Rapids, Iowa; J.Rofinot, Chicago, Ill.; F. Ryan, Springfield, Ill.; F. Austin,- Marshall, Mich.; L. Busch, Chicago,- III.; F. Bauer, South Bend, Ind.; C. Black, Yorkville, Ill.; C. Burger,
Reading, Pa.; H. Bennett, Cincinnati, Ohio; F. Cronin, Marshall, Mich.; C. Clarke, Chicago, Ill.; C. Campeau, Detroit, Mich.; J. Caren, Columbus, Ohio; W. Chapoton, Detroit, Mich.; F. Dowe, Milwaukee, Wis.; J. W. Green, Chicago, III.; J. Graham, Chicago, Ill.; Jos. George, New York; V. Hansen, Michigan City, Ind.; J. Hackett, Chicago, Ill.; J. Jepson, Chicago, Ill.; A Kleine, Cincinnati, Ohio; A. Kramer, Detroit, Mich.; B. Lefevre, Chicago, Ill.; C. Lewis, Chicago, Ill.; J. Mullarky, Butler Centre, Iowa; E. McMahon, Cleveland, O.; 8. Marks, Chicago, Ill.; J. McGrath, Alton, Ill.; W. Morgan, Memphis, Tenn.; E. Milburn, Mishawaka, Ind.; F. Miller, Richton, III. J. McHugh, Lafayette, Ind.; J. McDermott, Chicago, DI.; J. McGinniss, Ottawa, Ill.; A. Mitchell, Chicago, Ill.: T. McNamara, Dexter, Mich.; D. McAndrews, Chicago, Ill.; C. Nirdlinger, Fort Wayne, Ind.; C. O’Connor, Chicago, Ill.; V. Phelan, Pittsburgh, Pa.; W. Robinson, Pensacola, Florida.; D. Salazar, Albiquin, N. M.; A Schmidt, Chicago, Ill.; F. Sweger, Chicago, Ill.; H. Schaller, Chicago, III.; W. Schultheis, Detroit, Mich.; J. Shan-nahan, Detroit, Mich.; T. Schnurrer, Notre Dame, Ind.; O. Tong, South Bend, Ind.; N. VanNamee, Elkhart, Ind.; J. Wanbaugh, San Pierre, Ind.; J. Wilson, Hillsdale, Mich.; H. Zuber, Chicago, Ill.; J. Dore, Hennepin, Id.; J. Golsen, Chicago, Ill.;
PSYCHS.
i-"
Bright was the morn when Psyche softly woke
To consciousness of all her varied charms;
Delightful visions of the future broke
■ In lustre o’er her, as with outstretched arms . She hailed the new-born joys no vain alarms, Born of experience and heartless strife, .	-
Disturbed the rapture of that early glimpse of life.
ii	”
She saw bright Honor waiting at the door
Of opulence and fame, with friendly mien ■ Beck’ning her onward,while aloft she bore A crown of fadeless laurel, fresh and green, To place upon fair Psyche’s brow serene, The meet reward of deeds that heroes prize, Yet seemed but pleasures to her inexperienced eyes.
in
Thousands of friends admiring stood around To cheer her on to glory’s golden fane, Each seemed to wait the slightest cause to bound	*
To Psyche’s aid, that brilliant crown to gain,	■
While she yet stood on life’s untrodden plain Enraptured at the visioned prospect grand
That seemed to woo the grasp of her resistless hand.
rv
The path was bright:—the fragrant flowers of youth
And virtuous ambition, rich in bloom,
Adorned the scene ; the look of love and troth
Which met her gaze, led Psyche to assume, ’ As others had before, that grief and gloom,
Deceit and falsehood, malice and despair,	*
Lived but in minds made weak with too much fancied care;
v
Her heart beat wildly to the strains of joy	'
Awakened by this view of cloudless bliss;
The star of hope shone brilliant in the sky, And told of joys to come, more bright than this ; For then secure possession' would replace What yet was but the image of that fame
Which Psyche vowed to wreathe around her deathless name.
VI
’Twas grand to see what majesty of mien .
Distinguished Psyche, as in youthful pride And confidence she gazed upon the scene That lay, in beauty decked, on every side ; Her heart felt brave and strong, as life’s rich tide Bounded in youthful freedom, unrestrained
By fears, unknown till disappointment’s cup is drained.
.	VII
Time called for action:—promptly she advanced, With confidence and joy, to seize the prize— Her countless friends obsequious mutely glanced lu admiration at those speaking eyes, That vied in beauty with the azure skies ; And, standing ready with their willing aid, Cheered on her way the lovely, inexperienced maid.
VIII
• ’Twas well! the first advance was full of cheer,	3
342
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Andjiope’s bright star grew brighter to her gaze;
- The pathway still was flowery, straight and clear, And glory shone ahead with richer blaze.
But ah ! what was fair Psyche’s blank amaze, One early morn, to find her path o’erspread With thorns and brambles that inspired her heart with dread
IX
Whence'came those thorns ? They were not of the soil, For scattered loosely o’er the path they lay:
■ Ah 1 could fair Psychd then have seen the toil
With which her seeming friends thus barred her way
To glory’s temple, envious of that ray Which even then illumed her lofty brow, She would have learned what merit soon or late must ‘know.
x
But no: she saw it not—her guileless mind
Ne’er dreamt that efivy thus could seek to mar
The life of one by nature’s self inclined '
To strive for fame, led by the brilliant star
Of just ambition, never known to jar
With virtue’s strictest laws., She saw it not, And, suffering less, was still the victim of a plot.
XI
She gazed around; her friends seemed yet as true
• As when she first appeared on life’s great stage; .
So, nothing daunted, she advanced and drew
A murmur of applause, that might assuage
A deeper grief, Irom even those whose rage
Was ill concealed to see the spirit high
With which she braved the thorns that in her pathway lie.
XII .
Her march was bold and stately, though at times
Her bloom was changed into an ashy pale
Like to an Autumn morn when crispy rimes Whiten the bloom and verdure of the vale— So with her wound did Psychd’s beauty fail;
Yet onward still she pressed with firm resolve To win the prize, whatever pain it might involved
XIII
She still believed her friends were firm and true, ' For still they hailed her with a cheering smile;
She counted light the toils and pains which drew
The tears unbidden from her eyes the while;
But soon she saw base treachery and guile .
Lurking beneath the smile of friendship bland, And wounded deep, she swooned upon the thorn-strewn sand.
XIV
Slyly those friends, ’mid smiles and loud applause, Had cast new thorns in Psyche’s thorny path, While falsely seeming to remove the cause
■ Of her great suffering—yes, their fiendish wrath Prompted them still to hope that pain or death Would, stop her midway in her bright career, And they the fruit of all their previous toil should share.
xv
Aye, so it is when merit seeks to rise,	‘
A thousand satellites around it throng, Seeming as anxious to secure the prize Of golden fame, to whom it should belong, As if their own repute from others’ sprung;
Yet secretly they strive to ruin all
And their own puny fame preserve by others’ fall.
•	xvi	•
So when fair Psyche swooned from pain and grief, .
Her faithless friends rejoiced with dark delight;
And, far from seeking to afford relief,
They gladly saw her in that painful plight,
And turned away in base and heartless flight, - Leaving her seeming lifeless. “ Now,” they said, “ She will advance no more,—her spirit brave is dead.”
XVII
But Pysche woke and sadly looked around;
She was alone, save that one timid maid,
Before scarce noticed, knelt upon the ground
And bathed with gentle hand tier throbbing head (Whose pain made Psyche wish that she were dead), Besting it softly on her bosom true, Aye, on that bosom which no faithless envy knew 1
’	XVIII
Life’s consciousness returned, and Psyche spoke,
But oh ! how sadly feeble:—“ ’Tis in vain
To strive for glory’s palm when such a stroke
May fall at any moment, like that pain
Which strikes the heart when joy and pleasure reign, Causing the frame to tremble ’neath the blow, The soul to shrink and writhe in agonies of woe.”
■	XIX
“ O speak not thus 1 ” the gentle maid replied ;
“ Be brave arouse thee in thy. native power!—	.
The friends on whom thy guileless heart relied Prove false, and bring thee anguish for the hour;
But this will pass, and like the leaguered tower, .
Made strong with guards to meet the present needs— So should you arm your heart with knowledge of such deeds. 1	xx	-
Then Psyche raised her head and in amaze Read with piercing glance the maiden’s eye. ’Twas calm, and truthful, giving back a gaze Not insolently bold, but boldly shy. That with an angel’s look might aptly vie. The heart-sore victim felt that there was truth, And hailed it as the promise of returning youth.
XXI
Her heart grew strong again ;—she stood erect, And gazed with steady eye upon the scene; All nature seemed again in beauty decked ; Again her form resumed its regal mien;
She soon forgot what she so late had been—
And with a firm, though still more cautions tread, Advanced to win the laurel to her queenly head. ■
*	XXII
Holding the hand of her whose words of cheer
Had chased away that sense of utter woe
Which seized her heart when disappointment drear Had crushed her with an unexpected blow, She fixed her anxious gaze upon the glow
• Of glory shining brightly to her eye
And vowed again to win the prize or nobly die.	•
XXIII
Forward she now advanced with firm resolve To trust no more unproven friendship’s smile; H-w heart those trait’rous friends doth still absolve Of wilful evil, though her will, the while, Is fixed, that, ere the crown be gained, no wile Shall turn her face from that earnest, watchful care That baffles treachery, detecting every snare.
XXIV
But what avail resolves, however strong, To the young heart unused to life’s deceit ?
That heart, ’tis'true, can deeply feel a wrong, '
But then a smile will cool all angry heat And charm it back to confidence complete.-’Tis but a toy with which the wily play As does the playful kitten with its captive prey.
.	. xxv	.
The strong and weak, the genius and the drone,	-
Are all alike the toys of cunning wiles, Till oft-repeated wounds their work have done And taught them how t’appreciate those smiles Which hidden •malice but too oft defiles,— But he who would be great, or truly wise, , Must by experience win or learn—and, pay the price.
Thus Psychd still had much to learn and bear;
But life’s first lesson o’er, her noble heart Forgot the wounds endured—the crafty snare— And ceased to dread that more than fiendish art That winged with friendship’s smile its venomed dart; And bouyed with new-born hope she kept her way In joy and confidence, cheered on by glory’s ray.
’	.	XXVII
Betimes her faithless friends, or rather jbes Returned with seeming penitential mien ; And while her cheek with joy expectant glows, They smile, and hail her as their chosen queen, Concealing all the while their bitter spleen, Till, confidence regained by false pretence, They ply again their trade with cautious diligence.
XXVIII
Aye, ’tis a trade, whose end is to destroy The budding prospects of each noble soul, That, left to bloom, might give unbounded joy To many hearts. But such is merit’s dole, As Psyche learned before she reached the goal Of her desires:—it may attain its aim,	•
But suffering keen the pleasure of success must maim.
XXIX
Thronging around, those vampires still essay • To mar the pleasures of fair Psyche’s life, .
Determined, if they may not bar her way To glory’s heights, to throw into the strife Such bitterness—such toil with dangers rife— That should, success be hers, her sense of pain Would stifle still the joy and pleasure of her gain.
xxx
They saw with bitterness the gentle ma‘d, Guiding the youthful Psychd on her way In safety, through the snares their craft, had laid,
I
THESCHOLASTIC.	343
And, lest blank failure should their toils repay • ■ They now resolved to quench that single ray
Of confidence that cheers their victim’s mind, In feeling that she has one true and faithful friend. .
XXXI
Then artfully they manage to conceal ,	।
New snares in Psyche’s path, and with surprise -Discover them, ere she had time to feel Their inconvenience:—when with tearful eyes They mimic joy, and wear the specious guise Of sympathy, while with a fiendish art	,
They plant grave doubts of Psyche’s friend in Psyche’s heart.
XXXII
At first these doubts were like the flitting shade Of some lone cloudlet flying through the sky, . That casts its transient shadow o’er the glade, .
While twixt the sun and earth its course doth lie';
Yet, brightness follows this obscurity:
So did suspicion fly through Psyche’s mind, Leaving her trust still firm in her one faithful friend. .
XXXIII
But clouds accumulate when vapors rise
And meet the cloudlet in its lone career;
So, when foul envy falsehood multiplies,
Does dark suspicion grow into fear,	'
And fear develop into darkness drear!
Till some fierce struggle rend base falsehood’s shrouds As when a mighty storm dispels the murky clouds. '
xxxiv
’Twas thus wronged Psyche’s crafty foes now strive To cast a shade of dark suspicion o’er'
, That friendship, which alone had kept alive The spark of high ambition when, before, Discouragement her tender heart-strings tore ; Bor with such, cheering sympathy, success Could scarcely fail with victory her toils to bless.
xxxv
Bor in the contest for life’s richest prize . ’Tis lack of courage most begets defeat;
But who can with courageous spirit rise To lofty deeds, unless he somewhere meet A smile of approbation ? Who the heat Of life’s great struggle can sustain alone ? That man lives not, unless his heart be made of stone.
xxxvi
’Twas nature, then, that Psyche’s bitter foes Should seek to plant dissension’s treach’rousseed In that great heart that only candor knows, And trust in her who was a friend in need ;
Bor if in this their malice but succeed, She is their victim; since th’ approving smile _ They may exchange for scorn whene’er it suits their guile.
XXXVII
’Twas nature,—and they laid their plans with skill;
At first they dared no accusation bring ;
But doubting looks, suspicious thoughts instil-
More surely than when words together siring	.
A tale of falsehood. Aye, the hidden sting Of smooth-faced malice ever wounds more deep
Than open trutha look is safer than a peep, xxxvni.	-
Time wore along, their work was slow but sure, They shook their heads when dangers new appeared, And cast a look suspicious, yet obscure, On Psyche’s friend, as they the pathway cleared Of dangers, which their own deceit prepared, Till stung with doubt, instilled with artful care, Bair Psyche ceased to trust that friend so true and rare.
xxxix
But oh ! the sense of loneliness that came -
To pierce her heart when friendship’s joy was dead 1 What now could urge her to her lofty aim ?
What now could cheer her when some danger dread Should bar her path ? With trust her spirit fled, And left her weak and nerveless on her way ;
Bor life was robbed of all that effort could repay.
'	XL
Her watchful foes now hail with secret sneers ’ The sadness which weighs heavy on her heart;
They see with joy her iriend depart in fears— Tears for the helpless victim of their art, Who now, in anguish lonely, sits apart In indecision whether to pursue
Her first great aim, or bid success a sad adieu.
XI.I
But sadness cannot long enthral a mind
That feels its power to win a lofty prize ;
Hence Psychd soon cast sadness to the wind, Resolved, in spite of failure still to rise
In glory’s scale. Was this her purpose wise ? • It may have been; yet had she known the cost, She might for further effort have all courage lost.
xlii .	.
She knew it not, and still pursued her way;
Her foes redoubled all their former wiles, ‘ Billing her path with danger and dismay, Yet hiding malice ’neath'deceitful smiles Till weary and depressed her heart recoils, And oft she must have yielded to their craft, Had not her friend, unseen, averted ruin’s shaft.
'	XLIII
That friend, though spurned, suspected without cause, Still knows she is a victim of deceit, And, faithfully a friend, she oft doth pause To mark what struggles Psyche still must meet, And, seeing the snares set for her fearless feet, ' She secretly removes them, glad to feel
That she may still contribute to fair Psyche’s weal.
. xliv	„
But why repeat the story to its close?	'
The hopes and fears, the viet’ries and defeats, That robbed fair Psyche’s life of all repose, And made high honors seem but gilded cheats ?— ’Tis ever thus—true merit always meets The thorns of envy in its onward way, And he who wins the prize the rigid price must pay.
XLV
’Twas thus with Psyche:—after many toils And many dangers, fought with grief and pain, She passed the charmed circle, when the coils Of envy’s snake-like form relaxed their strain, And,/ree. she stood in glory’s golden fane, Admired by all, e’en worshipped by a few, Yet she was sad,—for now the price of fame she knew.
xlvi '
Gladly would she resign that laurel crown
Which graced her noble brow, could she recall
Those early days, alas I forever gone 1
When confidence and childlike trust in all Rendered her heart a paradise -withal.
But ’tis too late :—she sought and won the prize, Her life henceforth must be less joyous, if more wise.
•	xlvii
And there indeed is wisdom in that law
Which rigidly exacts this price of fame ;
Bor were the joys of life without a flaw, Our hearts might rest contented with a dream, ‘ Borgetting e’en the all-important aim.
So let us think, when hap or malice stings, The only solid joy is that which virtue brings.
.	Fly-Catches.
The Commencement Exercises passed off agreeably. AU were pleased.	.
Several of the students are spending their summer vacation at the College.
A Presentation.—At their closing meeting, the Saint Cecilia Philomathean Association presented Prof. J. F. Edwirds with a handsome badge of the Society.
Accommodations were made by the College on the most extensive plan for the reception of guests. All the available room in the College and Infirmary was prepared for the accommodation of the friends of the Institution; even the Study-Halls were turned to use.
Vacation.—What a change has come over Notre Dame within these few days! Now all is silent: the merry shouts -of the Minims and gay young Juniors have died away, and the trees in the shade of which the Seniors were wont to spend their recreation hours are deserted.
The New Church.—The. roof of the new church is nearly prepared for the slates. This portion of the work has been rapidly advancing, though the brickwork has not of late proceeded very rapidly, from a want of masons we understand, most of them being engaged at She new Laundry.	.
This week has been a busy one. The book and trunk packing, as is always the case on such occasions, has been the cause of much stir. Every available box was picked up and filled with books. And the loads of trunks that the teamsters hauled away apprized us most forcibly of the great number of students in attendance.
344
THE SCHOLASTIC.
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Alother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
'	TERMS:
Life subscription, $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid ■within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.
Single copies, 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave Mama for $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $15, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Mama for $50, in advance.
The postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office. -
Address,	-	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THiRTT-TWO PAGES	MONTH.
$1.00
Premiums for-Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of

Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar to the Editor,
KEV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
L. S. & Ma S. RAILWAY.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
upRAINS now leave South Bend as follows GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.		Arrive atBuffalo 4.05 a.m
“	“	12.25 p.m.		“	“	4 05 a. m
“	“	9.15 p. m.		“	“	1.35 p. m
“	“	12 35 a. m.		“	‘‘	5.30 p. m
“	“	S.2i)p. m.		Runs to Elkhart.
“	“	4.35 p. m.		
GOING WEST.
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m.	Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m
“	“	2 55 a. m.	“	“	6.50 a. m
“	“	5.00 a. m.	“	“	8.20 a. m
“	“	6 05 p m.	“	“	9.40 p. m
“	“	G.37 a. m.	“	“	10.30 a. m
“	“	8.20 a. m.	“	“	12.30 p. m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
Jgg* For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at tho depot and other public places.
IKS'Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes aster than South Bend time.
J. II DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.	.
J W. Carv, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchakd, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, G.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a. m.
Freights, 5.30 a. m.; 8.0G p.m.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a. m.; 9.25 p. m.
Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a.m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line
(STRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad (flp ison Street Bridge, as follows:
NILES I SOUTH BEND RR.
Leave Niles,
GOING SOUTH.
6.50 a m.
9.35 a.m.
4.50 p.m.
Arrive South Bend, it	ik
7.30 a.m
10.15 a.in
5.30 p.m
Leave South Bend, « 44
Arrive South Bend,
GOING NORTH.
- 8.40 a.m. Arrive Niles,	-	- 9.20 a.m
11.45 a.m. “	12 25 p.m
6.30 p.m. “	♦ 7.1G p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
- 9.30 a.m. [ Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m
5.39 p.m. |	“	“	6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, III., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona. Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Stain Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Slain Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Hl., and Louisiana. SIo.
LEAVE.
*9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
46:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
49:00 p.m.
AliEIVE.
*8:00 p.m
*4:30 p.m
*4:30 p.m;
*9:40 a.m.
*4:30 p.m.
117:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
Tliis Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. .
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. 4 Ex cept Saturday. B Dail y. § Except Monday.
The onlj* road running 3 Express Trains to St. Lonis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	• J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen‘1 Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent.
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO]
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing ' and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00
Instrumental Music, ---------	12 50
Use of Piano, ----------	- 10 00
Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing, -	•	-	--	--	--	--	- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 1G 00
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra. -	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
PBXKSTLVAN 1 A CENTRAD DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on tli 1st of February'
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. LESdONWIBR, C.S.C.
President.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New Work without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d i rain '•	- “	5.15 p.m “	“	6 41a. m*
3rd train “	“	9.00 p. m “	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsficld with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
3. N MCCULLOUGH. Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHl’ON. AssistantSnperintend“nt, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gon Pass.aud Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYEW. Gon’I Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.