PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
■---J!--- -	- - -	1	_ 1	1,1 11	-
Vol. I. Notre Dame University, Sept. 21, 1867.	» No. 3.
Laporte, Indiana.
Elkhart, “	-
Kingsbury, “	•
Rolling Prairie, Indiana. Il	'll '	ll
Jackson, Michigan.
Detroit, “ Dallas City, Illinois, a	u *
ii	ii
Wapakonet, Ohio.
Cincinnati, “
Munster, “
. LIST OP PUPILS AEEIVED AT ST. MANY’S SINCE THE 12TH INST.
Maggie Forrester, Eva North, Mary Miller, Sarah Miller, Mary Miller, Eunice Crouch, Mary Beaubien, Frances Gittings, Rosean Gittings, Julianna Gittings, Florence Alspaugh, Maggie O’Meara, Josephine Schneider,
Hattie Brooks, . • Beloit, Wisconsin.
■Libbie Bicknel,	“ .	“
. A mistake was made last week in reporting the residence of Miss Mary Morrill. Read Lawton, . Michigan, instead of Paw Paw, Michigan.
The Tables of Honor are adorned by the following most praiseworthy pupils, for the week ending Sunday, September 15th :
.	IN THE SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Clemmie Plimpton, Lizzie Plimpton, Nora Maher, Ella Ewing, Carrie Davenport, Fanny North, Katie Young, Nellie Simms, Katie Cunnea, Ann Cunnea, Virginia Brown, Teresa Tarrant, Rosanna Mukautz. •
Would it be in the least remarkable, Mr. Editor, if at the Annual Commencement for 1808, we should And the Cross of Honor in the possession of some one of their number? .
IN the junior department.
Ada Metzger, Mattie Sherland, Helen Sprochnle, Amelia Boyles, Anna Boyles, Leila McKenney, Anna Clark, Lizzie Niel, Leo Mills, Hattie Hunt.
- The season of competition in scientific branches has not yet opened, and though in many of the, classes some have distinguished themselves, we will await the’accurate test before giving their names.	.	.	.
In composition we believe there are some exer
cises not unworthy publication, but we will not be premature in presenting them to the pages of Tun Scholastic Year. For the week ending the 19th of September, the Misses Schutt, (of course) Doran, Brooks, Alspaugh, and Clemmie and Lizzie Plimpton, of the Graduating Class, stand deserving Of praise for diligence and talent displayed in composition hours.
In the first Senior Class we can say the same of the Misses Agnes Ewing and Kate Livingstone.
In the second Senior Susie Evans, Iola Conway, Carrie Davenport, Alice Gates and Fannie North deserve mention for excellence.of style; the Misses Alice Radin, Lizzie Lyons and Alice Cormoda for marked improvement.
In the third Senior Class the exercises in Compositions of the Misses Leila McKenney and Katie Jarvis, are equal, if not superior, to any others.
The Intermediate Classes have’ done well this week, and for fear their orthography in some cases might disturb the shade of Noah Webster, we will give but a few specimens. Examples: treble, for trouble; onimence, for ornaments; re-lise, for realize; dase, for dare; purficley, for perfectly ; wold and cold, for would and could.
We trust that at the termination of the year we shall be unable to find as many orthographical errors in the whole list of exercises; but these were all found in four lines of a composition that reads smoothly, and which is quite grammatical otherwise.
LIST OF PROMOTIONS. -
From the second Intermediate Class to the first Intermediate Class, Miss Libbie Bicknel. From the third Senior to the second Senior Class; Miss Mary Morrill. From the second Senior to the first Senior Class, Miss Eunice Crouch. From the first' Senior to. the Graduating Class, the Misses Katie Connelly, Hattie Brooks and Florence Alspaugh.	i '
The trying portion of the year, namely, that time wbeil the associations of home and the lib-' erty to command the hours, so agreeable to the young, are exchanged for the rules of boarding
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	3
school and the application of the mind to study is fast subsiding, and every thing is forgotten in the wish to “ improve the golden moments as they fly.” Some few tears have been shed, it is true, over stubborn lessons, which, like fugitives from justice, are determined not to be “commit* ted,” but the young ladies who have shed them are consoled by the reflection that their efforts to learn will bestow, the discipline of mind and strength of memory which, in the end will lead them oh to triumph over all obstacles. •
At the Infirmary Table, on the morning of the 19tb, there were but four pupils, of whom little “ Lelanola Zalla Mills,” or, Leonora Carrie Mills, —in plain English,—with her rosy cheeks, was playing out -of doors five minutes after breakfast, as we learned from the jokes of her Minim companions, who remarked upon her sudden coriva. lescence, that “ she could’nt be very sick.”
With the permission of the Rev. Editor we will present the following effusion from the pen of an embryo poetess, as it will doubtlessly delight the readers of The Scholastic Yeah.
i It shows the serious view taken by the little lady of the dangers consequent upon perigrina-tions through some newly-drained region which she has visited:	■	'	,
Since youth is past	• -
And gone to grass, »
I think I will not stay;	‘'
, . If I should jump,
And hit that stump, I'd surely go astray. .
The authoress of the above has not been at Composition Class since her arrival, hence it was perpetrated in the time of recreation, which fact will excuse the lameness of the first rhyme, and since it borders upon the comic, we are tempted to repeat a question propounded—(some years ag°, however) by little Lizzie Niel, respecting the probable development of a young rabbit. Gazing upon the little creature, remarkable only for the diminutive proportions of its body, and the length of its ears, she innocently cried out to the Prefect: “ O Sister! when it gets to be big will it be a mule .	'	■
- Most of our young Catholic ladies are at present very willing to pass fifteen minutes, or -even three ■ quarters of an hour in reciting the Beads at the Chapel of Loretto. It requires but three quarters to complete the entire Rosary, but one
• young girl not long since found the requisite time to weigh heavily, yet had promised the Superioress that she would go to the Chapel and say
“Three pairs of Beads.” She had hot a moment just then to give, but went to Chapel, knelt down, and waited only long enough to give the Superioress time to get out of sight, as she supposed, then rose, and left. In a few moments, however, she was met and questioned upon her fidelity to her promise. “ Did you go to the Chapel and say your beads three times, Maggie?” “ Yes, mother,” Maggie promptly replied, “ I said ‘ my beads’ three times.”	'
The fact was, she had while at Cha pel said, “ my beads, my beads, my beads 1” The qualms of an accusing conscience however led her to confess her abbreviation, and in due time she complied with the spirit as well as the letter of her pious promise. On Saturday the 14th, the Festival of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, the im- ’ pressive ceremony designated as the “ Veneration of the True Cross,” took place in the-Church, and was preceded Uy a clear and instructive explanation by Rev. Father Letourneau, of the object for which the Feast was established, accompanied by a feeling allusion to Very Rev. Father Provincial who, when Saint Mary’s was a wilderness, celebrated his first Mass on American shores, upon this significant anniversary.
The hearts of parents and guardians who indite letters like the following, will understand, and appreciate the good results to be derived-from the proper observance of religious festivals by those whose highest aspiration is to see their children grow up true Christians.
-------, September loth, 1867.
Mother Angela—Dear Madam : The two girls,------, and------------, whom I now con-
fide to your care, are my grand children, whose father died when they were quite .small, and their mother being a non catholic, they never have been afforded the facilities for a catholic education.
My object in writing this note—which will be handed you by my son—is to request that you use all your kind influence in inculcating the beauties and holiness of the Catholic religion, and impressing it upon their youthful minds. It is my fondest hope that the dear children may become ornaments as it were, to our Holy Church. I ata now nearly seventy-six years old, and the father of fifteen children, ten of whom are still living. My great aim has been to teach them the importance of embracing the “Saving Faith,”-and my endeavors have not been in vain, hence you can readily see the object for which I address you.
You will know better than I can tell you, what course to pursue, for I am satisfied that you can
THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.

and will appreciate my desire. It is but recently . -that I have been able to secure the.possession of
the children, but I immediately lilted them out for school and if I have not provided them with the necessaries in every respect, the means will be left in your hands to supply them. Nov.7, Mother, I give the entire spiritual care of the children into your hands, and while they are with you I ■implore your kind offices in their behalf. I am
dear Aladam,	Yours truly,-----.
On Thursday afternoon MissLibbie Denis of Watertown, Wisconsin, arrived in charge of her • father, an old and tried friend of the Academy, to whom Saint Alary’s extends her most cordial welcome. A young- lady from Memphis, Tennessee— Miss Skelly has also just reached the Academy to register her name as a pupil.	.
Our Minims.
Rev. FathefProvincial has just returned from an extensive excursion through the Southern part of this Diocese, visiting schools under his charge. He may give us next week an interesting report of the houses taken in his itinerary. He seems perfectly delighted at the increase and evident improvements of his department, as he - callsit,—his bright Minims. They.are now.fully organized, and. apparently depend on none of their Senior associates except for regular meals, which they continue to take .with the Juniors. But even there they show their own independence, and take no notice of the egress of their commensals—they claim the privilege to protract their sitting as long as they please—otherwise they have literally nothing to do with the other Students. They would not allow any one to infringe upon- their grounds or rights, and still
less to tread upon their feet. They are at times rather a noisy little nation, especially since music is taught them upon their own premises : the splendid piano which has been placed there for their exclusive use,.is seldom silent. It is fortunate for them that Father Provincial, otherwise so sensitive to any noise, seems, if not. to delight in the clamorous performances of his Minims, at least never to feel annoyed by them. The cunning little fellows seem instinctively to feel that Father Provincial 'could not have returned after a whole week’s absence without • something for them—his attentive and loving little Minims—some choice basket dr candy, etc.'
But from what we have quite recently learned, we deem' it almost a duty to warn in time the
. unsuspecting little flock of Notre Dame, that unless they prove themselves even better than.they bad perhaps contemplated, they are more or less in danger to be soon, if not superseded in point of predilection, at least to suffer division where before they had a monopoly. -
There is between here and the city, in New Lowell, a little school w'hich Father Provincial calls “ his Academy,” numbering already ninety-
nine scholars. There also is a splendid new piano, hitherto the first imported in that section of the country. Of course this rare instrument • makes a great noise down there.
Father -Provincial -dined there yesterday, and is highly pleased with the wonderful improvements he noticed in his new Academy.- Very probably the candy will go that direction, too, next week. This, however, is only a friendly warning to our-Minims, that they may ever stand on the safe side. .	.
-• --------------------------. .
additional list of students of
■ NOTES DAME.
September 11.
William Cochrane,	Chicago, Illinois'.
Nathaniel S. Wood,	Lafayette, Indiana.
Edward H. Ball,	“	'	“ .
George M. Yeakel,	“	“
•	September 12.
David Fitzgerald, John C. Dolan, • Charles W. Mott. John Lenk, Robert A. Pinkerton, Emanuel Desruisseux, George O. Stevens,
James F. Lewis, Thomas S. Lappin, A. M. Owen,
Kildare, Wisconsin. Peru, Indiana.
Kalamazoo, Michigan. Jeffersonville, Indiana. Chicago, Illinois.
Bridgeton, Missouri. -Logansport, Indiana.
September 13.	.
John Raggio,	Louisville, Kentucky.
* William Waldo,	Independence, Missouri.
"	. September 14. '	’
Andrew Mitchell,	Kendallville, Indiana
Alvin Mitchel,	“	.	“
September 16.	.
J. W. Watts,
Memphis, Tennessee. - Chicago, Illinois..
Corydon, Kentucky.
. Milliken’s Bend, La. September 17.
George M. Warrenj Stephen Corby, William Hayden, .
■ Mark M. Foote,
Joliet, Illinois.
Conner’s Creek, Mich. Columbus, Wisconsin. Burlington, Iowa.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
5
George F. Terrell, • James McGlynn, Louis Schmeider,
Indianapolis, Indiana.
Toledo, Ohio. ’
Minster Afiglaize, Ohio.
•	September 18.
William II. Gamble,	Springfield, Mass.
Dennis Tighe, 4	Toledo, Ohio.
September 19.
John B._ Hill, ' Charles T. Wilson, Edmund G. Schell, Edward E. Hull, . Joseph L. Hull, Charles L. Walton, S. R. Anson, A. C. Anson,.
Charles Philip Toll, George D. Tobin, David N. Hukill, ' Peter Barrett,
Lebanon, Kentucky.
Madison, Indiana.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Detroit, Michigan, u	g
Pontiac, “	•
Marshaltown, Iowa.
U	G
Fawn River, Michigan, Memphis, Tennessee.
a	cc
Roanoke, Indiana.
’	• Special Observations.
It must be distinctly understood that the Editor declines being responsible for the opinions of his correspondents.
AH communications for The Scholastic Yeab, intended for publication, must arrive here'the Thursday before the Saturday of publication.	’
All communications must be signed by the real name ef the correspondent, who may, however, choose another name as a signature to his article.	.
As the “ Administration” of The Scholastic Year is entirely disconnected from that of the Ave Maria, all letters referring to The, Scholastic Year should be addressed to ’	'
Kev. N.-H. GILLESPIE, En. S. Y., .
'	A’ofre Dame, Indiana.
SPECIAL jSTOTICE.
NO ATTENTION WHATEVER will be paid by the Editor of The Scholastic Yeah to anonymous correspondents. The name of the writer must'be known to the Editor, though an assumed name may be given for publication.
*	-----<o——
Tables of Honor.
Our readers must bear in mind that there were many other students who were eligible to the Table of Honor, but as only twelve, or eleven, are chosen each week, all who were worthy could not find place. The names are printed in alphabetical order, no other distinction being possible:
(	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Roscer Brown, Dennis Clark, James Cunnea, J. Dickinson, James Edwards, John Fitzharris,
W. T, Johnson, James McBride, James Monroe, William Nelson, H. Rodman.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
John Broderick, M. Dupuys, T. Dupuys, John Dunn, H. Eiseninan, Daniel Egan, John Flanigen, C. Hildebrand,. Arthur Murphy, H. B. Morancy, James Sutherland, Francis Teats.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Harvey Boughton, Andrew Baader, John Chan-donai, Martin Smyth, Henry Templeton, Wallace Templeton..	.
-----
Alton, III., Sept. 13th, 18G7.
The following are the names of the six best boys.in our school during the week ending September 14th:
1st Class—Sebastian Wise, Eugene Sneeringer.
2d Class—John Connors, Philip Cahil. '
3d Class—Eddie Coppenger, Peter Shea. ■
. -	-	B. Adolphus.
. Vocal Music. '	.
That the fine arts refine our tastes and feelings, no one will deny. Have they not, then, much to do with that foundation on which rests the gentlemanly character by which every one is so' favorably impressed? If they have, why not make an exertion and cultivate them, or, at least as many of them as possible ?
Foremost among the accomplishments, is Vocal Music, and as there are but very few whose intellects are so dead to an appreciation of the beautiful, as to derive no pleasure in listening to. music, so there are but very few who would ’ not welcome, to their society, him who can, at will, hold enraptured, the admirers of melodies performed on the only instrument, deemed worthy of being presented to man by his Creator— the human voice. If song affords so much pleasure to the listener, how- much ought it not give to the performer who experiences the double gratification of amusing others and enjoying and gratifying a taste for the compositions of the great musical geniuses of the world. .
Home never appears so much like home as when, at evening, on the flood of light that streams from the merry parlors, floats the commingled sweetness of vocal harmony. Who doubts, that enjoyment of some kind is necessary for every young heart; and if this appetite must be gratified, how much more noble is the pleasure found in music than that found in the grosser


6
THE SCHOLASTIC--YEAR.
ri
enjoyments, into which the ignorance of the fine arts precipitates multitudes of young men. ’
With all the-advautages in view, which we mentioned above; with the necessity of keeping pace with the growing musical tastes of the country; one hundred ought to study music now, to the one who did so during the ten past years. White good advantages arc so abundant; while the cost is at so very small a figure, and while young students have plenty of time—if the opportunity is neglected, many regrets ■will soon be expressed, and if not too late, at as great an expense as is usually attendant upon it, means will be taken to acquire a' knowledge of vocal music.
We are happy to announce that a vocal department has been established in the University and would like to see. with the parents’ consent, a verv large number taking lessons in that- branch which is of great advantage in any state of life in which one could be placed. •	.
This beautiful vessel was built in Milwaukee. It spent one year on Lake Michigan, and was well known there as the “Fast Craft,” a name which it received on account of"its swift sailing.
The “ Lady of the Lake,” having sailed up the St. Joseph "River, was purchased by the present company. The boat is forty-three feet long, eleven feet wide, carries seventy-four- yards of canvas, and runs the entire length of. St. Joseph’s Lake— a distance of nearly a mile—in one minute and
twenty-seven seconds. '
J. C„ Jr.
‘ Archconfratemity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
This Society was reorganized on September, 1867.
Director—Rev. A. Granger, S. S. C.
President—James Edwards.
Vice President—James Cunnea.
Secretary—Francis Guthrie.
Librarian—Anthony O’Reilly.	-
the Sth of
Holy Angels’ Society.
The first regular meeting of this Society took' place on Sunday morning, Sept. 15th, under the supervision of its former Director. If we judge from the list of officers, as well as of tha present members who compose the Society, we can safely say that therawill be many agreeable and saluta-
‘ ry lessons learned.	'
President—John Flanigen.	.
Vice-President—John Broderick.
Secretary—P. O’Connell.
Treasurer—Frank Teats.
First Librarian—John Skelly.
- Second Librarian—Henry Benoist.
Censor—Lawrence Wilson.
- - Mutual Base Ball Olub.
At a meeting of the regular members of this organization, the following officers were unanimously elected:	.	. -
President—Brother Urban.	•
Vice-President—John Fitzharris. „	•
Secretary—James Cunnea. -	,
Treasurer—William T. Johnson. Scorer—Charles O’Callaghan.	-
■ Directors—H. C. Allen, James Dickin son,^E. S.
Pillars.	-
■ The President having appointed a committee to select members for the different nines, this was immediately done. The following'are the names of those in the first nine:	-
Joseph D. Murphy, Field Captain and Catcher.
John Fitzharris, Pitcher.	'
J. Sullivan, First Baseman. .
. A. B. White, Second Baseman.
James Rogers,-Third Baseman.
James O’Reilly, Center Fieldsman.
A. Gillespie, Left Fieldsman.	-
D. M. Kelly, Right Fieldsman.	. •
. J. B. Roberts, Short Stop Fieldsman.
. This Clulris now in prime condition; its members are improving constantly both in regard to number and a theoretical and practical knowledge
of the game.
Observer.
33
r

'i


St. Joseph Boating Olub.
This Club was organized April 21st, 1867, and is composed of thirty members, each holding’ a share in the boat, which is now called the “ Lady of the Lake.”
\ _■	Base Ball.
On Wednesday last a very interesting match took place between the First and Second Nine of the Star of the West Base Ball Club, the former agreeing to put out six of the latter in each inning.	’	. • '
Quite a number of lovers of the sport were present to witness the proceedings of the game, among whom we noticed Rev. Father Hallinan, Mr. Spillard, Prof. McNally, and Bro. Florentins, the Director. The “Fashion” and “Mocking
if J r
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
7
Bird” Clubs seemed, also, to take great interest in the game.
The balls caught by Skelly, Wilson, Burns and Benoist, of the First Nine, and Ingersoll and Foote, of the Second, brought out hearty applause ( from the crowd. The batting of “ Johnny,” on which he made four home runs, also elicited the plaudits of the crowd.
The game commenced two.P. 31., and was a
matter of exciting interest throughout, lowing are the
INNINGS :
1
Furst Nine —15
Second Nine— 4
The fol-'
8 Total.
5 —73.’
7 ____22.
7
5
4
8
1
6 0
4
11 15
2 3
0
1
Master John Dougherty officiated as Empire.

Yours,
H. L. Eisenman.
31. Keating having been obliged, by ill health, to discontinue his duties as Treasurer of the Cornet Band, 3Ir. J. W. Watts was elected in his-place.
We have received many letters and other articles of considerable merit, which are crowded out this week. Our Correspondents and Contributors are requested:
1st. Not to write on both sides of the sheet.
2d. Not to write with pencil.
3d. To write legibly, and to consult Webster occasionally.
Valuable Donation.—Our excellent neighbor, and kind-hearted friend, A. 31. Talley, Esq., has generously donated to the College Siuseum a fine and large collection of specimens of Natural History, such as minerals, shells, fossilized animals, etc., etc. He sent us ulso quite alot of objects of general interest—including Indian relics, fragments of celebiated monuments, etc., for which he has the sincere thanks of the members of this Institution. The industrious Keeper of the 3Iuseum is now diligently engaged in classifying those specimen^, which when properly determined will be put in a separate glass case’bearing the inscription : “ Donations from the Talley Family.”
The Eagle.—We are sorry to sec our suggestion with regard to placing’the cage under the locust tree, has not been attended to. The members -of the Humane Society, mentioned in onr
last, should at least furnish the bird with an umbrella in rainy weather. On Wednesday night he was exposed to a pelting shower, and looked proportionately disconsolate the following nrom-ing. It was thus that our London correspondent (lately come over, oii a flying visit, by Atlantic Telegraph,) found him, and beheld him, to use his own words, with feelings of hadmiration not unmixed with haw. “ Is this the National Hem-blem of your galorious Republic?” he asked. We replied that we had not hitherto regarded this particular specimen in that patriotic light, but that he could consider it such if he pleased. The Eagle was regaled with fish during the Ember--Days, and the change of diet seems to have agreed with him.
Hunting.—The venatorial, occupation in the neighborhood of Notre Dame is decidedly on the wane. Ducks no longer disport upon the surface of the lakes, and quails do not appear in Brother Peter’s garden in any very large flocks. We sallied forth last Wednesday with a numerous escort to scour the woods in search of game. Our youngest fellow-sportsman displayed considerable ability in the effectiveness of his attitudes and the dead certainty of his aims. He fired his first shot into a withered tree, and. two doves and a blue bird immediately fell to the ground to rise no more. But events soon began to thicken, and the form of the successful Junior was lost to the gaze of his companions, who scanned the horizon in vain. The co sine of the sun’s altitude was fast becoming equal to radius, but the boy! oh where was he? His disconsolate friends roamed the forest wildly in search of him, and were comforted by a farmer and his boy (who were engaged in digging skunk’s cabbage for-the consumption) with the assurance that he had probably fallen into the river, which was-very deep in some places near the bank, or’ got mired in the swamps. They also thought that he might have shot himself by accident, and when it was remembered that he hadn’t got any shot with him, it flashed at the same time on their .minds that he might have knocked out his brains with the butt of his gun. -Having wandered several miles, and put the respectable inhabitants of that romantic region, on the qui vice, the shades of evening at length closed in and necessitated a return to the college—top late for supper. The juvenile sportsman was found to have returned safe some four hours previously. We felt we had had a splendid hunt.	•

P
'W



vwSUMJAWMiZH


i


A. PEKZODICAI. -
DEVOTED TO THE LOCAL INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S,
IS published every Saturday, at Notre Dame, Indiana, from the Ave Maria Press. It contains matter under the following heads:
1st. Arrivals of Students and Friends'at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
2d. Honorable mention of Students, both in regard to Conduct and Studies.
3d. Promotions.
4th. Articles from the Classes in English Composition, selected by their respective Professors.
'5th. Bulletins of General Health.
Gth. Correspondence from the various Schools connected with the College and St. Mary’s Academy.
7th. Notes’and Notices of Field Sports. Boating, etc. -
Sth. Matters of General Interest.
9th. Interesting Correspondence from Schools throughout the Country.
£3^ All Communications intended for this Paper should be addressed to
BEV. K. H. GILLESPIE.

THIS Institution, incorporated in 1814, enlarged in 1866„and fitted up with all the modern im-_ provements, affords accommodation to Five Hundred Students. Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is of easy access from all parts of the United States.
TEH SE S !
$ 5
Matriculation Fee......................................................    •
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition, (Latin and Greek included;) Washing and
Mending of Linens'; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per Session of five months ....................................................
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each...........	......■........
.Instrumental Music..........................................................
Use of 1’iano...................... .........................................
Use of Violin............................................................  .
Drawing....................................’.................................
Painting.....................................................................
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus..................................
Graduation Fee...............................................................
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra...
. PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., Furnished at Current Prices.
00
150
10
12
10 o
10
•20
5
10
35
00 00
50 00
50 00 00
00 00
00
The First Session opened on Tuesday last. The- Second Session opens on the 1st of February. For further particulars address
ItEV. W.	C., srresid©sit.
1
JSFotre Dame, St. Joseph. County, Indiana,
TWO MILES FROM SOUTH BEND,
HAS earned its wide-spread popularity by the devoted efforts of the Sisters of Holy Cross to render it the perfection of an educational'house. In the Sciences and in the accomplishments the best Teachers are secured.	' ■
a
TSRKS; $200 PES ANKylg.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the “Twelfth An-. nual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy,” for the year 18GG-7, or address
SIOTUESi ANGELA, Superioress
Notre Dame Post Office, Indiana.
7/
