Notre Dame Scholastic.
T>isce qviasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 9, 1878.
Number 24.
A Spanish Anecdote.
[The following beautiful lines on Wilkie’s conversation with a Geronomite friar in some Spanish convent on a picture of “Tire Last Supper” are from Moxon’s “ Selections from Lord Houghten’s Poems. ”J
It was a holy usage to record,
Upon each refectory’s side or end,
This last mysterious Supper of our Lord,
That meanest appetites might upward tend.
Within the convent-palace of old Spain,
Rich with the gifts and monuments of kings, Hung such a picture, said by some to reign
The sovereign glory of these wondrous things.
A painter of far fame in deep delight
Dwelt on each beauty he so well discerned;
While in low tones a gray Geronomite
This answer to his ecstasy returned:
“ Stranger! I have received my daily meal
In this good company now threescore years;
And thou, whoe’er thou art, canst hardly feel
How time these lifeless images endears.
“Lifeless—ah no ! Both faith and art have given
That passing hour a life of endless rest;
And every soul who loves the Food of Heaven
May to that table come a welcome.guest.
“Lifeless!—ah no! While in mine heart are stored
Sad memories of my brethren dead and gone;
Familiar places vacant round our board, And still that silent Supper lasting on.
“ While I review my youth—what I was then—
What I am now, and ye, beloved ones all I
It seems as if these were the living men, And we the colored shadows on the wall.”
►
The Resumption Argument. I.
BY JOHN G. EWING.
The question of Resumption is evidently the question which at present agitates the mind of the American people. Can we resume? shall we resume? and how may we resume? These questions are daily asked and daily answered. The first two in the negative by some, and the affirmative by others; and the last in many and diverse ways. The Act of ’75, known as the Resumption Act, pledges the United States to specie payments on Jan. 1, 1879, less than one year from the present date. Many have sought most earnestly the repeal of that law, and in the late extra session of Congress a bill to that effect passed
the House of Representatives. Able and labored efforts were brought forward to sustain both sides in the debate attendant on this bill; but among those sustaining the law, that of James A. Garfield, of Ohio, was by far the ablest, embracing all the Resumption arguments. This speech, as delivered, is the subject of the following review. After a few words on the unsound (?) financial theories now in vogue, Mr. Garfield opens his argument proper. The first portion of his speech, which is here treated, is a plea in favor of forced resumption, in which he is a firm and faithful believer. He in the outset wishes this fact well understood, that the greenback is but a forced loan of the Government, and that the primary fact connected with every greenback is that it is a promise to pay. This, taken in connection with one of the reasons owing to which he contends we must resume in 1879, would lead to the supposition that he holds that resumption in that year is demanded by national honor. Taken in this sense, the assertion maybe denied. The first and the principal property of the greenback is that of money. It is money, not a loan. It was issued by the Government as money, because the Government had not and could not procure gold and silver for the carrying on of the war. The Government said to those accepting the greenback: “We have not the coin to redeem this pledge, and we do not know when we shall have it, but as soon as the business interests and the prosperity of the nation will permit, we shall redeem it.” No man therefore took the greenback because he thought he could procure gold for it. He but looked on the back, and read, “ This note is legal-tender for all debts, public and private,” and for that reason he took it. It was the money of all taxes, and of all contracts. It could pay debts, dues to the Government, and could act as an exchange of values. It was money. It was proclaimed money until the interest of the people should justify and demand its deprival of the power of money.
The first objection Mr. Garfield would meet is that we have not enough currency in this country for its business, and yet to resume we must contract what we now have. Before meeting this objection, he called attention to the fact that our present currency is nearly twice what we had in 1860. Hence he inferred that we had more than we required, because there was no change in trade that would justify such an increase. If we compare our currency to that of England or Germany, we still find that it is far smaller than theirs. We have but $17.50 per caput; England, by various estimates, from $27 to $34, and Germany, $23. With our vast territory, imperfectly developed, and our slow exchanges, we should certainly, according to all laws of trade, have as large an amount in circulation as either England or Germany. Hence our currency if anything is too small, and is surely far from
370
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
excessive and “ unjustifiable by any theory of currency.” He states that the laws of trade alone can govern the volume of currency, and that Congress should not interfere therein. This is true and sound financial doctrine. Our trade was suited to the volume of currency which he condemned, and the law of ’75, resolving arbitrarily to contract that volume, is unjustifiable, and cannot be sustained.
Mr. Garfield then alludes to the example of France, as quoted by Judge Kelley, and hoped that the gentleman would but follow France in her resumption. As he well observed, the question of French currency is different from ours, and for that very reason our copy of France would be folly. The French found themselves after the Prussian war, and the payment of the exaction, with a large volume of paper currency. Their resumption was rendered easy by three facts: first, their double standard; second, the holding of their debt at home and consequent retain-ence of their coin; third, the almost immediate inflow of the immense amount extorted from them by Prussia. These all conspired to aid French resumption, which even yet, after the day fixed, is not an accomplished fact; and two of these causes, and others as weighty, conspire against our resumption. With regard to French’ resumption, it may furthermore be observed that in the week ending Jan. 2,1878, the paper was increased to the amount of $20,000,000, and that the total increase above the amount out in Sept, 1875, was $51,000,000. Also on June 28,1877, the coin in the vaults was $455,000,000, and on Jan. 3, 1878, but $ 404,000, 000. A backward method of resuming!
The example of English resumption next demanded attention, and Mr. Garfield resorted to the usual plea that the disasters attendant on English resumption were due but to the corn laws, and that resumption was a blessing for England. He first indulges in a tirade against Sir Archibald Alison, whose authority is often quoted on this subject His assertion that Alison was “a hater of republican and popular institutions ” cannot weaken his reputation as an historian and a careful student of all questions relating thereto-Since Alison’s indignant denunciation of the law that wrecked the industries and pauperized the labor of Great Britain will not be accepted standing alone, it may be confirmed by the statement made by Sir Robert Peel, the author of the law, eleven years after its passage when he was compelled to rise in the House and declare that it had worked ruin to the nation. That law caused a reduction of the paper currency forty-five per cent., and,’ thus causing a shrinkage of values, bankrupted and beggared the business interests of the kingdom. A committee, appointed by Parliament in 1822 to examine into the cause of the distress and ruin, reported that it was owing to the Act of Resumption. They scouted the.idea of over-production, when the land was filling with starving hundreds, and when the great bread riots necessitated an increase of the army to put down the masses, desperate with hunger. England’s forced resumption was the model for our infamous Act.
Mr. Garfield reiterates as true the assertion of Secretary McCullough that the great panics of ’97, ’17, ’37, '57, and ’73 were all caused by inflation of the paper currency, and says “ these crises are periodic. They have been preceded by overtrading, speculation, an enlargement of credit, and an undue expansion of the instrument of credit.” The first remark appropriate in this connection is that the currency in the first four years named was no larger than it was in 1860, which, we quote Mr. Garfield’s words, “ was a year of unusual business prosperity in the United States.”
The causes of the four first mentioned panics were inherent in the banking system formerly prevalent in the States, and in the, for us, absurd theory of convertible paper currency. Our nation was always poor in coin, and has always resorted to paper as a medium of exchange. The State Banks of issue put out convertible paper currency beyond the supply of coin they had in their vaults with which to redeem the notes. The wants of trade required more money, and it was issued. For the one dollar in the vaults three were issued, and on that they added ten dollars of loans. So they issued their notes in excess, and expected with one dollar to redeem three. All would go well until a failure would come in some trust company or something else, and then the people would think it was well to get their coin for their bank paper, and a run would follow on the banks. They would find one dollar to redeem three or more, and so the Banks would close, and their paper fall to 75, 50, or 25 per cent. After a while trust would revive again, the same process would be gone through with, ending in the same results. It was the Banking system, not the paper money, that caused the panics. In all these the Bank paper, owing to the system, was worthless, and thrown aside, while in that of ’73 the greenback was caught up and hoarded by the holders. That last panic was caused not by the paper, but by contraction of the paper money In 1865, we had a greenback and bank currency of $910,000,000, and in 1873 but $742,000,000. Taking into account the increase of population.it was a contraction of about forty per cent. In the place of money, credit was substituted, causing increased indebtedness. The reckless grants of the Government to such enterprises as the Northern Pacific, and the investments wildly made in those enterprises, was the cause of the exposure of the credit system of the period of contraction. Distrust followed, and business failures were the result. The credit system was caused by contraction; contraction and the fraudulent grants caused the failures; and the credit system and contraction, one the cause of the other, have since produced the same results in a continued chain of failures and business depression.
The second objection which Mr. Garfield attempts to answer is that the enforcement of the Resumption Act will injure the debtor class of the country, and thereby oppress the poor. He denies that the poor are the debtor class, and says it is the well-to-do people who can give security, who are the debtors. The small amount that the poorer class possess over and above their daily expenditures is, he contends, placed in savings-banks, in life-insurances, and in bonds. The repeal of this law will oppress these poor depositors, and help the rich to whom the money deposited is loaned. If the law is repealed and the greenback comes down, say ten per cent., “you will have destroyed ten per cent, of the value of every deposit in the savings-banks, of every life and of every fire-insurance policy, of every pension to the soldier, and of every day’s wages of every laborer in the nation.” By the census of ’70, $120,000,000 is daily due to the laboring class for wages. If the greenback falls ten per cent, you rob the laborers in one day of $12,000,000. Thus stands Mr. Garfield’s argument; and-first as to the assertion that the rich are the debtors. If all employers of labor are to bi classed as rich, this assertion may stand, but it cannot if it is only those who are able at any moment from their resources to meet their creditors’ demands who form the wealthy class. As a rule, it is not
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	371
the wealthy who carry on the business of the country, but the young and energetic men, who are striving after wealth and competence. This class borrows the capital of retired wealth to enable them to go on with their work. They are the debtors if they are the rich. “They comprise two-thirds of the merchants, manufacturers, and exchangers of value, and they give employment to two-thirds of the wagemen of the country.” This class it is that the law especially concerns, and the swelling number of bankruptcies shows the effect of the law, which, ruining the employers, and beggaring their families, also sends out on the streets the laborers idle and without hope of employment. The bankruptcy of the employers necessitates the discharge of the employed. The law has cost the laborer his daily sustenance. According to Harper's Weekly, three millions of laborers, men, women and children, able and willing to work, are to-day out of employment. “Out of employment means out of trade, out of schooling for children, out of clothes, out of everything that makes life comfortable and pleasant”—yea, or even in many cases, possible. There is the cause of the labor riots, the railway strikes, and the tramp nuisance. We are the heaviest taxed people in the world. ■ Great Britain pays a tax of §11.09 per head; France §11.41; Germany, §9.24; Austria, §7.22; the United States, §17.50. We must pay yearly in taxes a larger amount than the present volume of our currency. Unless our business prosper, the burden cannot be supported. The Resumption Act contracts the currency, thus depreciating the value of land and produce, by the sale of which taxes are paid; increases the national debtover §400,000,000, in order to resume; and adds double the amount to be paid on the 8,000 millions of State, county, railroad, and individual debt to be paid by the people. For when you sb rink the value of the property or labor by which a debt is to be paid, you may as well let the property alone, and increase the debt. Such a system leads to repudiation, and it has done so. “ Several great States, and many counties and cities have already sought relief in repudiation.” The continuation of the policy will end in repudiation of over one half of the corporate and municipal debts of the United States. Savings-banks and insurance companies are failing every day, and yet Mr. Garfield appeals in the name of the workingman, whose earnings he says are in them, to continue the policy of contraction by which the banks and companies are ruined. The failure of the debtors of the banks and companies involves that of the banks and companies themselves, for when the debtors go down, the creditors fail. For nearly every man in our nation is debtor and creditor. The contraction of the means of one necessitating his failure, involves that of all. It is like the little wave started by a pebble dropped into still water. The Act by injuring the debtor class necessarily reduces the laboring masses. Three millions thrown out of employment, and the decrease of wages attendant on contraction more- than offsets the stated loss of ten per cent, to the laboring man. It is to many a loss of one hundred per cent.; and Mr. Garfield’s attempted championing of the poor man is a mockery and an empty boast. His answer to the Repeal assertion is an answer to itself. The agony of Resumption is by no means over, Mr Garfield to the contrary, and the attempted enforcement of the Act will ruin the industries and beggar the wealth of the nation.
Mr. Garfield next attacks Judge Kelley’s assertion that the greenback saved the nation, and says according to that
theory the Confederacy, having a more redundant paper currency, should have won. Once, in all truth and honesty, said a supporter of Mr. Garfield’s theory, a man of weight and eminence in the councils of the nation: “I am -not here to attack the greenback. It was the price of my -country’s liberty. It comes to me with memories tender and sacred clustering round it. Deeply do I love it, for it was the price that bought the salvation of my land. When the mad waves of rebellion swept over the land, the greenback was the ark that bore the hope of the nation . and that saved us.” The greenback, supported by the Union army and resources, saved the Union cause. If the resources of the South were in any way equal to those of the North, in all likelihood their note would have saved their cause.
He says what we need is an international not a national currency. “ Our money must be international as well as national, unless we wish to isolate this country, and have no. trade or commerce or glory on the sea.” As an allsufficient answer might be cited the Republic of Venice, which in the 13lh century, through the Bank of Venice, issued irredeemable legal-tender notes, on which a small interest was annually paid, and these notes remained above the par of gold for centuries. They were the sole legal-tender of Venice until the destruction of the Republic; and hence, according to Mr. Garfield’s assertion, Venice should have “no trade or commerce or glory on the sea”! History contradicts Mr. Garfield’s assertion. The theory that only a paper currency redeemable in coin is beneficial is historically untrue. Our greenback currency is another example of its falsity, and, as President Grant said, it is the best money we ever had or ever shall have, simply because we cannot keep afloat sufficient paper money, either Government or Bank issue, redeemable in coin, with which to transact the business of the country. Our attempt to do so before the war caused the four great panics of '97, ’17, ’37, and ’57.
“ Our greenback has two distinct functions: a purchasing power, and a debt-paying power. . . . When these are made equal the problem of our currency is solved. . . . We should have equality of the dollars before the laws, as we have equality of all else. . . .You have brought up the greenback two and a half cents higher in value, you will have added to the volume of currency §200,000,000 of gold coin.” The ideas here expressed are but an amplification of Mr. Garfield’s theory that when the gold and the greenback become equal, resumption shall have been effected. Equalization is not Resumption. It can take place without disaster to the business of the country, for it comes through the chances of trade; while Resumption, acting without regard to business interests, but destroys the industries of the country. Gold has come down owing to the light demand, consequent on the business depression in our country and in Europe. Revival of business prosperity in Europe or this country would increase the demand for gold, cause a rise, and mayhap send it up ten or twenty per cent, before the day of Resumption-But allow that the day of Resumption finds gold and green, backs equal, they can be kept equal but by law or the chances of trade. As trade increases or decreases, the gold will rise or fall, and the equality unless established by law must fail. If by law the greenback is declared equal to gold, will not the inflation notion triumph ? To make the greenback equal to gold is not to resume. The greenback is a debt, which is also money. It is money
372	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
until the debt be paid, as specified, in coin. Resumption is the payment of that debt, or it is nothing. “ Equalization is not Resumption, for equalization is but a measure of the demand for gold, while resumption is a redemption and a destruction of the currency to the extent of the demand for gold.”	______________
Chilo of Sparta.
Chilo, a Spartan philosopher, and the third in the order of the Seven Wise Men of Greece, flourished at Lacedaemon, his native city, about the 52d Olympiad, 568 years before the Christian era. Of the particulars of his life there has but little come down to us, and were it not for the few •wise sayings which are here and there related from him we would in vain look for a reason which might have induced the ancients to bestow such high honors upon him. The few incidents of his life related by the historians of his time are so incoherent, and even sometimes so inconsistent with chronology, that it is almost impossible to make any definite statements about him. Thus some praise him for his love of solitude and retirement, and state that he always stopped at home; while others speak of him as having visited various parts of the Persian empire. His character, however, was firm, determined and tranquil, maintaining his equanimity in adversity as well as in prosperity. He was unambitious, and according to the judgment of the men of his times a perfect model of virtue, if we can admit this expression with reference to a man in a state so far inferior to Christianity, where a man is acknowledged to be, at the best, but imperfect. The precepts, however, which he delivered, he faithfully practiced. His silence and moderation have especially gained him the admiration of the world, and he is said to have regulated his life by that striking maxim of which he is the author and which was so eloquently touched upon sometime ago in the columns of the Scholastic, “Festina lente."
About the 55th Olympiad, Chilo was chosen a member of the constitutional body, consisting of five magistrates chosen annually, called the Ephori, who from simple policemen and inferior judges, as they were at first, had gradually increased their power until they finally exercised, jurisdiction over all public functionaries. Over the kings themselves they kept a watchful eye, and in case of misdemeanor could accuse them before the Senate and have them sent to prison. They also called together the assemblies of the people and two of them accompanied the generals to the wars. Of their own conduct they needed to give an account only after the time of their office had elapsed, and then it was only to their successors. When Chilo was promoted to this dignity, his brother, who was a candidate for the same office, became jealous of him to such a degree that he could not conceal his resentment. Chilo cooly replied : “ I have been chosen because I have been thought fitter than you to suffer the injury done me in drawing me from my retirement to be immersed in business and rendered a slave.” How many can there be found nowadays who consider it such an onerous obligation, nay, an injury, to be intrusted with public offices, or who consider themselves slaves to the obligations which they assume therewith?
Chilo was not entirely exempt from the general superstitions of his age. His belief in all the varieties of pagan divinities was of course without reserve, and as a consequence he could not see through all 'the trickery going on in
their oracles. He had great confidence in the art of divination, and according to Herodotus was a skilful divine, himself. In the first book of his works the father of history tells us how the Attic nation was oppressed and distracted by Pisistratus, son of Hippocrates, and he begins his narative with the following account of Chilo’s divination : “To this Hippocrates, who was at the time a private person, and a spectator at the Olympian games, a great prodigy occurred; for, having killed a victim, the caldrons, which were full of flesh and water, all at once bubbled up and boiled over, without any fire. Chilo, the Lacedaemonian, who was accidentally present and saw the prodigy, advised Hippocrates first of all never to marry; or, if he was already married, then to lose no time in putting away his wife; and if he happened to have a son, to disown him. Hippocrates, however, would not be persuaded by such advice, and had afterwards this same Pisistratus who usurped the sovereign power of Athens and constituted himself the tyrant of his native country.
On another occasion, after having attentively considered the quality of the soil and the situation of the island of Cy-thera, Chilo exclaimed before all present: “Ah! would to heaven this island had never been; or that as soon as it appeared it had been engulphedby the ocean! fori foresee that it will be the ruin of the Lacedaemonians.” Nor was he deceived in this conjunction: for the island was taken sometime after by the Athenians, who laid waste the country.
The opinions and sayings of Chilo are always expressed in a few words; so much so that his brief and elliptical manner of speaking became proverbial amongst the Lacedaemonians. He used to say that a man ought never to threaten, for this was a female weakness; that the greatest mark of wisdom was to restrain the tongue, especially at a feast; that one ought never to speak ill of any person, otherwise he would be perpetually exposed to the danger of raising up enemies against himself, and of heariug things by no means agreeable to him; that a man ought to visit his friends when in disgrace rather than when in favor; that it was belter to lose than to acquire ill-gotten gain; the harm received will soon be forgotten, the reproach for an injustice committed will last for the whole life; that we ought never to flatter a man in his adversity; that a man of courage should always to be mild, and endeavor to procure respect rather than fear; that the best policy in a State is to teach the citizens how to manage their own families with propriety; that a man ought to marry a plain, unaffected woman, and not to ruin himself by the celebration of his nuptials; that gold and silver were tried by a touch-stone, but that it was by means of gold and silver that the hearts of men were tried; that we ought to use all things with moderation, lest we should be too sensibly affected with the loss of them; that one ought to guard against a busybody, who always meddles in the affairs of others. “ Love and hatred,” said he, “ do not last forever; love as if you were one day to hate, and never hate but as if you were one day to love.” “If you complain misfortune, consider what others are suffering and you will surely complain with less bitterness; know thyself, for there can be nothing more difficult since self-love always exaggerates our own merits in our eyes; if you are invited to a feast, you may come late if you wish, but if your friends have need of you for consolation, make haste without any delay; never permit your tongue to run before your thoughts.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
373
In the temple of Apollo at Delphi he caused to be engraved in letters of gold “ that we ought never to wish, for things too much above us; and that he who became surety for another, never failed to lose.” Another renowned saying of his was, that there were three things especially difficult: to keep a secret, to bear iniquities, and to make good use of time. When Periander did all he could to allure him to Corinth, that he might avail himself of his advice as to how he might maintain himself in the tyranny which he had usurped, Chilo made him the following answer : “ You wish to embroil me in the troubles of war, and, as if it were to give you security, would have me live like an exile at a distance from my native country. Know that there is nothing upon which one can reckon with less confidence than regal greatness, and that of all tyrants the happiest is he who has the fortune to die in his bed.”
That Chilo did not decline such honors through pure humility—for such can only be found among the blessings of Christianity—but rather through indolence and self-love, we may infer from the following instances, in which he so freely indulged in the gratification of his own vanity, of which he must have had no inconsiderable share. Perceiving his end approaching, he looked around at his friends, who were assembled about him, and said: “My friends, you know that during the long time I have been in the world I have said and done many things: upon mature reflection I find nothing of which I have cause to repent, except, perhaps, a case which I now submit to your decision, that I may know whether I have acted properly or improperly. On a certain occasion I happened to be one of three who sat in judgment on one of my good friends, who according to the laws ought to have been punished with death. I was much embarrassed; one of two things was inevitable, to violate the law or condemn my friend. After careful reflection I devised the following expedient. I delivered with such address all the most plausible arguments in behalf of the accused, that my two colleagues found no difficulty in acquitting him; and yet I condemned him to death, without assigning them any reason for my conduct. I discharged two duties, that of friend and judge; yet I feel in my conscience something which makes me doubt whether my conduct was not criminal.”
It is said that Chilo died at an advanced age, at Pisa, through excess of joy while embracing his son who had returned crowned as victor from the Olympic games. The Lacedaemonians after his death erected a statue to his memory, and Diogenes Laertius wrote the following epigram on his extraordinary death: “I return thanks to thee, O bright shining Pollux, for the olive crown which the son of Chilo has obtained in the contest of the cestus. For if a father at seeing the brow of his son so gloriously crowned, dies of joy after having embraced him, this is not a death sent by an evil fortune. Could I but end my life in a similar manner! ”
Catholic School Boards.
We have given in our columns letters from clergymen favoring the establishment of Catholic school boards. This week a letter reached us from a school-teacher in this diocese, from which we give the following extract:
“ Many thanks for the papers you sent me. The educational articles in The Scholastic are just what we want. May we venture to hope that some of our conservative
Catholic journals will take up the matter? Much better would it be, if the Bishop could be persuaded to test it practically in this diocese. I am satisfied that the success of the undertaking would amply repay the outlay of time and labor. It is evident to any one at all familiar with school work that our parochial schools perform only a small part of the work which they should accomplish, if Catholic children are to stand on an educational level with the children of non-Catholics. Buncombe and self-complacency are not confined to Fourth of July orators. Our Catholic journals point to the number of our colleges and convent schools as irrefutable evidences of the march and diffusion of Catholic enlightenment. They ignore the fact that, to the mass of Catholic children, those institutions are practically as inaccessible as the University of Louvain or the College St. Sulpice. “ The poor you have always with you.” The parochial school must furnish poor children the mental and moral instruction which colleges and academies impart to the sons and daughters of the wealthy. Prudence demands that the instruction in those schools be so thorough, solid, and practical, that lukewarm Catholics may be stimulated by motives of interest to help their more zealous brethren bear the burden which their support necessarily entails.
"Asi can conceive of nothing more conducive to success in education than efficient supervision, I am confident that, sooner or later, the Board 6f Education will be filling its sphere of usefulness. That sphere may be circumscribed at first; reform sometimes moves slowly, but as the advantages resulting from the organization become apparent, it will be extended.”
Correspondence.
The following correspondence explains itself:
Neuilly, Pasis.
Tres Reverend Pere:—
Jeunes enfants de Notre-Dame de Sainte Croix et tout nouvellement abrites sous son aile, nous ne vous connaissions que de reputation; nous savions que par de la 1’ocean un vdnere Supdrieur General aimait Neuilly, ceux qui 1’habitent et sur-tout nous, les plus jeunes de 1’Institution.
Mais aujourd’hui, mon Tres Rdverend Pere, que votre presence an milieu de nous, va resserrer Ies liens qui nous unissaient deja, veuillez recevoir l’assurance de notre filiale affection. Vous nous portez dans votre coeur, mais vous nous aimerez encore davantage, lorsque vous saurez que tousles jours depuis deux ans, en union avec nos petits freres d’Amdrique, nous rdcitons Jes pridres de 1’Association des saints Anges Gardiens.
Les petits Eldves de la Classe Preparatoire et de la classe des Minifies.
My Dear Minims of Notre Dame:—
I send you at once a beautiful address read to me this afternoon, and beautifully read, I assure you, by one of the youngest and loveliest little Parisian angels I have ever seen here. They form, as yourselves, two distinct classes, vieing with each other as to which of the little ones, and the smaller yet, will be the best. I scarcely ever saw, except in one place, such a number of bright, intelligent, polite, charming and pious young gentlemen (about three feet high); I almost apprehend I shall feel inclined to give them my preference over the rest of the world unless I receive monthly reports from beyond the waters showing that my own Minims there defy all competition. Please then, meet these in the columns of the Scholastic and send them, in print, their address and your reply.
Your old friend,
E. Sorin.
P. S. Kindest regards to your dear mothers at home and to your devoted teachers until I see you all again, greatly improved.
Chers Petits FrSres et Amis:—
Le Trds Rdv. Pdre Sorin, notre vdndrd Supdrieur Gdndral
374
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
nous a charges d’une taehe, tout a la fois difficile et douce; celle de rdpondre, pour lui, au compliment que vous lui avez, nous dit-il, tibien lu lore de son passage a Neuilly.
C'est de tout notre coeur que nous nous empressons de satis-faire a son desir car, voyez vous, nous l’aimons taut, et ap-prdcions si bien le bonheur de 1’avoir pour pdre que nous ne saurions rien lui refuser.
Done, en son nom, chers petits Amis de la France, nous vous remercions vivement pour l’aimable et gracieuse reception que vous lui'avez faite, pour tous les beaux sentiments que vous lui avez si bien exprimes, et sourtout pour 1’sffection que vous lui portez.
Nous le sentons, nous ne pourons que d’une manidre trds im-parfaite nous acquitter de la tache honorable que leTies Rev. Pere Superieur nous a confiee et ne sachant parler come lui, nous allons vous parler de lui.
Nous vous dirons tout d’abord que nous avons regrette de le voir partir autant que vous avez etd heureux de le recevoir parmi vous. N’etant encore que Minimes nous ne pouvons pas nous servir de grands mots ni de belles phrases, mais si nous avions toute 1’eloquence de nos confreres de la cour des grands que de choses nous pourrions vous dire au sujet de ses bontds et de sa condescendanee envers nous. Nous vous dirons que depuis son ddpart nos petites fetes ont perdu le charme qu’il savait si bien y donner. Cependant il nous a souvent dit que le devoir impose quelquefois des sacrifices bien pdnibles et en nous quittant au creur de 1’hiver pour aller ou le devoir 1’ap-pelait nous ne pouvons nous empeeher de reconnaitre qu’il nous a trace un exemple de fiddlite aussi preeieux qu’admirable.
C’est lui, comme vous le savez, qui a londe notre belle Association des Anges Gardiens du Sanctuaire. En union avec vous nous aussi en recitons chacque jour les prieres. Ah si vous voyiez nos belles lampes! Nous aimerions a savoir si celles de Notre Dame de Ste. Croix brillent autant que les notres. Que de choses nous pourrions encore dire de Notre Dame et de son illustreFondateur; mais qu’il nous suflise, de dire que jamais nous ne serons assez ingrats pour perdre le souvenir de toutes ses bontds envers nous et de toutes les faveurs dont il nous a comblds.
Vos petits frdres d’Amdrique,
Les Minimes de Notbe Dame.
Replies to Invitation.
University of Notre Dame, Ind., January 24,1878. Editor North-Western Chronicle:
The writers for the Notre Dame Scholastic request the honor of your company at the carving of a turkey at Notre Dame on Tuesday, January 29th, at 4 o’clock p. m.
Respectfully, Jno. G. Ewing, 1 Jos. P. McHugh, > Committee. P. J. Cooney, )
To which the Editor replied as follows in the columns of the Chronicle:
REPLY.
To the “carving a turkey” you bid us now come ; It’s full five hundred miles away from our home Up here in the Northland, whose ever bright star As the guidon of Empire sheds lustre afar ; Whose waters are clear, whose skies are so blue That the eye of Divinity shines lovingly through. We’d be in at the “ carving ” but our team’s gut at grass, This is no joke—though it's green—let it pass. We’d borrow his reindeers from jolly Saint Nick, But Summer has played old Boreas a trick, And the sleighing’s been bad (as a Yankee once swore When berating our State) for three months or more. And being an editor, without guile, gelt or trick, We really must walk, as we can't cheat old Nick. But it’s sorra a walk we’ll make now, asthore, If it’s but to a “carving” we are asked to the fore. For it’s not to the carving zee'd be asking you, boys, But come to the eating, and unpent be the joys Of the days as they come and the days as they go, May they sparkle as bright as the frost jewelled snow. We were not meant for a doctor—and dissecting the bird Was never our forte, but we pledge you our word At testing its toothsomeness we are as good as the best (Here we make our acknowledgments with the heartiest zest Of a Southron true born). Yes, we’ll share in your song, Your wit, wisdom and mirth the whole evening long ; We’ll tip you your healths in spirit not wine, And we’ll sing with the merriest of glorious Lang Syne ; But eating, at such long range, even turkey with jelly Is too much of a joke for, yours truly,
Bill Kelly.
—Gobbled in life; Gobbled in death.—We have received from Messrs. Ewing, McHugh and Cooney, com
mittee of the writers for the Notre Dame Scholastic, an invitation to a “Turkey carving,” at Notre Dame University, Jan. 29. We appreciate the courtesy, but we are anti-Russ in this Turkish broil, and with us this thing of carving Turkey goes against the grain. When our Scholastic friends, respectively, shall have carved toothsome protectorates and digestive autonomies out of prostrate Turkey, we can only hope the ghost of the Porte will not return to plague them for the foul procedure.— Catholic Universe.
—Our thanks are hereby tendered the writers for the Notre Dame Scholastic for a kind invitation to assist at the “ carving of a turkey ” on the 29th. We are sure it would be as enjoyable an affair as the one now going on in which the Russian Bear has a paw.—Catholic Columbian. '
—“ Georgetown College, D. C., Jan. 30,1878:—Editor Notre Dame Scholastic:—Thanks for the kind invitation for St. Francis de Sales’ Day to the “carving of a turkey ” at Notre Dame. I hope it is not in partnership with Russia that the carving is undertaken. Indeed the best of us would fare badly at any entertainment of the kind that Russia would give. Even John Bull will hardly succeed in getting a bone or two, except by some preternatural growling, at that carving. Yours was no doubt a pleasanter reunion, which it would have given me pleasure to attend, had it been possible.
“ Respectfully, Jno. S. Summer, S. J.,
“ Editor College Journal.”
Scientific Notes.
—A museum is about to be erected in Paris to contain everything that is of any value in relation to the science of ethnology.
—It is stated that the Khedive has granted to a Dutch company the right of draining Lake Mareotis and utilizing the reclaimed land. The area of the lake is about 75,000 acres.
—Prof. Asa Gray communicates the fact that the closed gentian opens for a brief time in brief sunshine, and he believes it may sometimes be cross-fertilized by bees forcing their way into the flower.
—In au analysis of sixty or seventy kinds of wall-paper, Mr. Seebold, of Manchester, Eng., found only ten that were harmless. The others, though containing no green colors, but pink, blue, red, and brown, were more or less poisonous.
—It has been recently discovered that the spawn of carp are subject to the attack of the waterbug {Ranatra linea-rius), which fastens upon the back of its prey by its forefeet, and, penetrating the flesh with its sharp beak, sucks the blood of the young fish.
—The Portuguese will begin in May the construction of a railway from Delagoa Bay to Pretoria, in the Transvaal. The Cortes has voted upwards of £60,000 for the worn to be done this year, and the engineer in whose charge it is placed is now on his way to Africa.
—A consignment of soles and turbot was lately shipped from Southport, England, by arrangement of Prof. Baird, United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, with the intention of turning them into Massachusetts Bay if they arrive safely. Soles and turbot are not native to the American coast.
—The condensation of all the gases into a liquid state has been successfully accomplished. The liquefaction of oxygen was almost immediately followed by the liquefaction of hydrogen, nitrogen gas, and of common atmospheric air. The final demonstration of the last experiments was made Dec. 31,1877.
—Herr Gerhard Rohlfs, the African explorer, is organizing an expedition for the purpose of penetrating into the eastern part of the great Sahara. Tripoli will be the headquarters of the party, which will comprise a number of scientific men. The aim is to explore the unknown oases, Wajanga and Kufara, in the south of Anjila.
—Large beds of talc occur in various sections of this
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
375
country, and one of the uses to which the mineral is put is the manufacture of paper. It is ground and bolted like flour, and, united with cotton in equal proportions, makes a fine writing-paper. Being, like asbestos, fire-proof, it is extensively used in the manufacture of roofing-paper.
—A Brazilian plant has lately been introduced into the Southern States, and; spreading with great rapidity, threatens to become a miserable nuisance. It belongs to the Composita, and is named Acanthospermum xanthoides. It is worthlessas fodder, and produces berry-seeds which cling to everything with which they come in contact, and thus insure their rapid distribution.
—Late news from Mr. Alfred E. Craven, the African traveller, whose movements we have from time to time noted, announces that the complete failure of his health will compel him to abandon his intended investigations into the natural history and the geography of the East Coast of Africa. Mr. Craven had been for some time studying the Suabili language at Magila, in order to be better prepared for tr avelling in the interior.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mr. Southern’s next practical joke is to be a book— which Carleton will publish.
—Mr. Jenkins’ new book, “The Captain’s Cabin,” is having a great run in London.
—Grimm’s tales, of German folk-lore, have been made into a reading-book for schools in an English educational series.
—Mr. Swinburne’s “Erechtheus” has been translated into Danish by E. Lembocke, it is said, with very great success.
—The sale of Rev. J. S. Crane’s “The Two Circuits” has been so good that the publishers have now ready the third thousand.
—Mr. Stanley’s forthcoming volume on his African explorations is the prize for which the English publishers are just now most eagerly contending..
—Archdeacon Gray’s long promised work on China, the result of twenty years’ residence in that country, will be published by Messrs. Macmillan & Co. in a few days.
—“ The Jericho Road ” has received another strong indorsement by being announced for early republication in the far-famed “ Tauchnitz Edition ” of Leipsic, Germany.
—The second volume, on “The Revolution,” of M. Taine’s “ Beginnings of Contemporary France,” is in press. His restored health has enabled him to resume both his literary and professorial labors.
—An Irish artist, Michael Angelo Hayes, has recently died in Dublin. He was well known in Ireland as one of its most graceful and gifted artists; and was, for some years, Marshal of the city of Dublin.
—The London Bookseller recommends to those mailing books from England to the United States to send them in sheets or in separate packets to avoid seizure and confiscation in this country as dutiable articles.
—An important volume on the flooding of the Sahara, an account of the great project for opening direct communication witht 38,000,000 of people, with a description of Northwest Africa and Soudan, by Donald Mackenzie, is just ready abroad.
—The Academy, in speaking of Mr. Bryant’s “Flood of Years,” pays an affectionate tribute to “the venerable American poet who was born before Keats, and who has seen so many tides of influence sweep over the literature of his own country and of England.”
—Last week we mentioned the fact that "Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly had accepted the position of literary editor of the Catholic Standard, of Philadelphia. We congratulate the Standard on this new accession of talent to its heretofore able staff, and trust that its efforts to place itself at the head of Catholic journalism will meet with the success that it so eminently deserves.
—The average member of Parliament is this year confronted with a new terror. The parliamentary Buff book for 1877 prints the record of every vote in the house of
commons during the session. It shows that out of three hundred and fourteen divisions only one member was present on every occasion, while eight members were not present so much as once on any vote in parliament.
—Commenting on the honor recently conferred on Dr. Newman by Trinity College, Oxford, the London Spectator remarks: “ It will do the' college far more honor than it can do Dr. Newman, who is far the greatest master of the English tongue now living, and perhaps the greatest writer of English prose who has ever lived. His university and parochial sermons, his ‘Essay on Development,’ his two stories, ‘Loss and Gain’ and ‘Callista’; his Lectures on Anglican Difficulties,’ and his 1 Apologia pro Vita Sua' contain more passages abounding in grace, pathos, combined force, and delicacy of touch, and vivid irony, than all the Anglican fathers from Jeremy Taylor to Thirl wall put together, and probably, if we exclude our great novelists, than any other writer of English prose.”
—A gigantic compendium of Chinese literature, comprising nearly 6,000 volumes, has been purchased by the English Chinese Secretary of Legation at Peking, Mr. Mayers, on behalf the authorities of the British Museum. This extraordinary compilation was prepared under the auspices of the Emperor Kang Hi, and was printed with a font of movable type cast for the purpose under the direction of the Jesuit missionaries, the work being finally issued in A. D. 1725-1726, in the ensuing reign. This vast storehouse of information, arranged in upward of 6,000 heads, under thirty-two sections, which again are grouped in six grand categories, will now for the first time be made accessible to scholars. The general index to the collection fills twenty Chinese volumes, apart from the more minute indexes pertaining to each of the subdivisions of the work.
—The director of the French Museum of Artillery at the H6tel des Invalides, Paris, has opened a new gallery, which comprises figures exemplifying the principal types of warriors in the most remote parts of the globe. Asia is represented by the soldiers of China, Japan, Corea, Mongolia, and Annam, and by Hindoos, Mongolians, and Circassians. The types from Australasia comprise natives of New Zealand, Australia, New Caledonia, New Guinea, Tahiti, the Admiralty Islands, the Marquesas, Hawaii, the New Hebrides, Borneo, and Sumatra. Africa is represented by Arabs, Touaregs. natives of Morocco, Senegal, negroes on the gold coast, Kaffirs, and Arabs of Zanzibar and Aden; while from America there are the Esquimaux, the redskins, the Mexicans, and the na’ives of Brazil, Peru, La Plata, and the Republic of Ecuador. These figures, numbering seventy in all, and ot life size, are of plaster, and were modelled in the studio of the Museum.
—AiSrial Telegraphy promises to do away with all need for wires overland and submarine cables. Professor Loomis, of Washington, it would seem, has devoted his life to demonstrating the practicability of a theory which he has long entertained, that telegraphic communication can be carried on, without the aid of wires, by means of a current of electricity which he has shown to be constantly in existence in the air at certain altitudes, and which is capable of transmitting messages between two perpendicular 'wires, reaching into that strata, whatever the distance may be. The latest reports of his experiments indicate that he is on the point of succeeding, as he has already sent messages a distance of eleven miles in this way, using the Morse battery in connection with one of his own invention. The fact seems to be assured that aerial telegraphing can be really carried out pratically, though its great value will be in long distances, such as from one side of an ocean to the other. Mr. Loomis is now making arrangements for a series of experiments between the peaks of the Alps and the Rocky Mountains of America. If he succeeds, of course the telegraphing between the Old World and the New will be cheapened a thousandfold, and he is thoroughly convinced that before many years the submarine cables will be lying abandoned and useless in their ocean beds. We cannot, however, help thinking that even if these electrical atmospheric layers do really exist, they must be subject to such great derangement from thunderstorms or whirlwinds as to very materially affect their reliability.
376
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JlotW |)anu
Notre Dame, February 9, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 I?er Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Examination.
The Examinations were concluded on the 31st of January. That the extra work which was entailed upon both the Professors and Students was amply compensated, by the almost entire satisfaction which it afforded, it would be needless for us to say. We would not have it understood that we mean to say that in every instance the pupils gave their Professors ample cause for pride, or that without exception the students were at ease when submitting to the trying ordeal of the examination. Unhappily this was not the case. We must confess that there were exceptions and that some were found deficient in one or more of their classes. The reason why they were so is well known to these pupils themselves. . It is evident that their deficiency was caused solely by their want of application and hard study during the five months past. Had they applied themselves during the time which they spent here since September, they too might have passed brilliant examinations.
However the vast majority of the students did great honor to themselves by their ready and correct answers. They fulfilled the highest expectations of their teachers, who have labored hard in tbeir behalf during the session. They proved beyond a doubt that they had faithfully done the work allotted to them during the session; that, not wasting their time in the study-hall, they had diligently prepared themselves for their classes, and that when they were in class they gave heed to the instructions of their teachers. It would be a pleasure for the editor to make especial mention of the many hard-working, earnest students who particularly distinguished themselves on the occasion of the Examination, but our space will not admit of this. We have already given the general averages of the students, from which every one can judge of the satisfactory manner in which the great majority acquitted themselves.
Before concluding, we would state that we have it from the officers of the house that the Examinations have given them satisfaction and pleasure, and that if the June Examinations show a like improvement in the students, they will not only be satisfied, but even proud of the success of the University during the past year.
And now a word or two to those who failed and those who succeeded. If you failed at the February Examination, do not let that discourage you, but let it excite you to energy and hard study. Endeavor during the coming months to make up for the time lost during the last session. Study with a mm that will carry everything before it. Apply every moment of study-time to the work which you have cut out for you, and then when the June Examinations come you will receive the reward of your labors. But if you succeeded in passing well in the February Examination, do not consider your success next June as assured. If you now rest on your oars, the race will be lost. Others who are now behind you may pick up, and when the examinations come around agiin you may be found wanting. No: work as you worked the first session, Endeavor to do even better next June than you did in February, and then your success is assured.
Art at St. Mary’s.
St. Luke’s Studio we find has not only advanced in the excellence of its studies, but since the February examination of 1877 has changed its location and now occupies the fourth story of the Music Hall. At the close of the delightful concert and literary entertainment given in St. Mary’s Vocal Hall, we were invited to inspect the works of art produced at St. Mary’s since the opening of September, and were agreeably surprised to find all set off to the best advantage in the new quarters where the Muse of Painting has taken up her abode.
Upon entering, we are first impressed with the richness of the wall, which throws the pictures into bold relief, and we see how wisely the heads of the institution have put into practice lessons learned from the celebrated Art Galleries of Europe, of which the tout ensemble of St. Luke’s Studio pleasingly reminded us. For fuller details, more anon.
The space on the northern wall, near the entrance, is devoted to the display of promising and most creditable specimens in pencil, from blocks, both flat and round, eggs, berries, leaves, landscapes, etc., by pupils who commenced only in September. In the centre of these studies hang two rich and beautiful panels of Autumn collections painted in water-colors and elegantly framed. The bringing out of such work indicates wonderful patience and skill on the part of the young artists who produced them.
Among the smaller panels in water-colors, one of morning-glories was particularly noticeable for its charming truth to nature and the skill displayed in the work; the others were good beginnings, evincing talent which culture will be sure to bring out successfully. There were also studies from larger blocks, done in India-ink preparatory to coloring, which were truly admirable.
Turning to the oil-paintings, our 'eyes rested upon an overturned basket from which are rolling delicious and freshly-gathered apples. This is a truly beautiful and spirited piece. The clear sunlight gleams on. the yellow edge of the basket and on the richly colored fruit as it lie s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
377
on the orchard grass, in which the autumnal leaves are nestled. Underneath this painting is a plate of. peaches, also two smaller fruit-pieces, all rich in color and beautifully done. Among the panels in this department, we observed one of roses, on a black polished surface, exceedingly well painted, also several black polished wood panels of calla lilies, which, although still unfinished, were splendidly begun.
Upon tables were lying the drawing-blocks used by the .general Classes of the Senior and Junior departments. These we examined with the greater pleasure as they are calculated to bring out latent talent which might otherwise be neglected. The exercises were simple, but well done by the majority of the pupils. What interested us still more, perhaps, were the baskets containing specimens of penmanship from the various classes. From these we could observe that very skilful and systematic instructions are imparted. Indeed the chirography of St. Mary’s is of world-wide celebrity.	.	—
After examining the work of the pupils^we gave ourselves a little leisure to observe)the arrangement of the studio, which in itself proved a delightful treat from an artistic point of view. On the western wall, prominently thrown into relief, were two fine portraits enlarged from photographs, and painted by a Greek artist of Baltimore, Md. One is that of the Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross; the other of the late Rev. N. H. Gillespie C. S- C., formerly the esteemed chaplain of St. Mary’s and a brother of the Mother Superior. Next in order is an excellent portrait (painted by the celebrated Prof. L. Gregori) of Rt. Rev. Bishop Gilmour. The largest space of the Studio, as would naturally be expected, was given to the Patron of the Gallery, the great St. Luke. Around his picture were grouped engravings from Raphael’s allegorical representations in the Vatican —“Theologia,” “Justitia” “Poesis,” and “ Philosophia.” Beneath was the portrait of our glorious Sovereign Pontiff, Pope Pius the Ninth, and still lower an exquisite Roman mosaic of St. Peter’s; which was loaned to the Studio by the Very Rev. Father General, C. S. C.
On the same wall, further to the east, were arranged some superior lithographs from the early German Masters— beautiful religious pictures,—in fact those of the Masters are all religious pictures, as if superior genius would refuse inferior and merely natural subjects. Long did we linger before these chastening and rare reminders of days when faith was more vital and charity more universal. Their very presence must inspire the youthful artists with a pure and noble ambition.
In noticing the work of the pupils, we omitted to mention specimens of Ceremie work and decorating of por-clain which were on exhibition, and which show that St. Mary’s is warmly interested in the revival of those beautiful and ancient arts. On the table where these were exposed was to be seen the “ Toner Art Medal,” a rare piece of workmanship, donated by the well-known Dr. J. M. Toner, of Washington, D. C. “The Acknowledgment,” a poem, of several stanzas, appropriately composed, and beautifully penned in the choicest handwriting of St. Mary’s, also encased in a cover painted in water-colors, and presenting a most perfect minature picture of St. Mary’s, lay beside the medal. As we glanced around the studio, and saw the excellent work on exhibition, we said to ourselves: “ Who, of all these, so expert in the angelic art, will win the golden prize ? ”
----e
As we were about to leave this apartment where th eye is almost bewildered with the many beautiful objects, we stopped once more to admire the ceiling and its beautiful ornamentation. There are five angles, in each of which a pair of doves is painted, with olive-branches, sprays of oak leaves, acorns, etc., arranged with admirable effect The floor of the studio is painted so as to resemble oil-cloth. The colors are subdued and appropriate, and the entire appearance of the room is remarkably beautiful.
From the character of the February display, we shall look forward to that of June with no ordinary interest.
Personal.
—John McIntosh, of ’58, is practicing law at Oshkosh, Ill.
—Ambrose Reid, of ’73, is practicing law, we are told, at Erie, Pa.	.
—	J. D. Coleman, of ’76, is studying medicine at Ann Arbor, Mich.
—	Chas. Saylor (Commercial of ’76,) is teaching school at Antwerp, Ohio.
—	F. H. Buter (Commercial, of ’73,) is in a drygoods house at New Haven, Ind.
—	Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, stepped in to see us on Tuesday last.
—	G. B. Saylor (Commercial, of ’76,) is in a drygoods house at Maysville, Ind.
—	H. H. Schnelker (Commercial, of’69.) is in the drygoods business at New Haven, Ind.
—	Philip Federspiel (Commercial, of ’72,) is in the drug business at New Haven, Ind.
—	Charles Grainger (Commercial), of ’77, is keeping books for his father at Lasalle, Ill.
—	E. B. Whitaker (Commercial, of ’69,) is Ticket Ag’t and operator on the Wabash R. R.
—	Aaron Lindsay, of ’61, resides at Kokomo, Ind. We have not been informed as to his business.
—	F. H. Schlink (Commercial, of ’77) is engaged in a drygoods establishment at New Haven, Ind.
—	Nelson Saylor (Commercial, of ’75,) is book-keeper for the Antwerp Stove Company, Antwerp, Ohio.
—	H. F. Schnelker (Commercial, of ’71,) is book-keeper for the Indiana Stove Company, New Haven, Ind.
—Daniel E. Maloney, of ’74, is spending a few days with us. He is in the best of health and is prosperous. He has “put out a shingle” at Elgin, Ill.
—Mr. Cross, (Commercial) of ’77, we learn since last week, is clerking for D. H. Moon, an ex-student of Notre Dame, at Rochester, Minn. Mr. Moon is doing a large business, and we are pleased to see him taking Notre Dame boys into his employ.
Local Items.
—Good skating, and the boys are happy.
—The Bulletins were sent off last Monday.
—The semi-annual banquet of the St. Cecilians will take place on the 12th.
—The Thespians are to play “ Henry IV ” on the evening of the 21st, at least so we have been told.	.
—The Minims made a fine haul of bass, good, large ones, on Wednesday afternoon. They fished by cutting through the ice.
—Parts in the drama to be given on the evening of the 21st by the Thespians have been distributed and the rehearsals will soon begin.
—In the list of excellence published a couple of weeks ago, the names of T. F. McGrath and C. Hagan should have appeared for Elocution.
378
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The skating finished up on Wednesday. A day or two afterwards the boys were on the Campus practicing with their balls. Strange weather this.
—In order to make space for the report of the examinations at St. Mary’s Academy, this week, we were forced to cut down the amount of our personal and local matter.
—The 19th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on the 8tb. The semi-annual reports were read and adopted. A full report will appear next week. •
—The Juniors captured a rabbit on the Campus last Sunday. It was the second’ or third time that he made his appearance, but always managed to escape. This time the boys were too smart for him.
—The psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are Dixit Do-minus, page 1 of the Vesperal; Laudate pueri, page 2; Loetatus sum, page 18; Nisi Dominus, page 4; and Lauda Jerusalem, page 21. Jfissa de Angelis will be sung in the forenoon.
—At a meeting of the Law Class the following gentlemen were elected officers of the Notre Dame Moot Court for the ensuing session: Judge, L. G. Tong, LL. B.; District Attorney, M. W. Bannon; Sheriff, W. J. Murphy; Clerk, J. J. Shugrue.
—The regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society was held last Tuesday evening. The debate set for the meeting was, however, postponed for one week. Mr. Regan declaimed; Messrs. McEniry and McHugh answered questions, and Mr. Murphy read an essay.
—At the meeting of the Archconfraternity which was held on Sunday evening, Feb. 3d, for the election of officers, the following was the result: President, J. G. Ewing; Vice-President, T. F. O’Grady; Secretary, P. J. Cooney; Treasurer, P. J. Mattimore; Censor, L. Evers.
—We have received the Scholastic Almanac for ’78. The well-known ability of Prof. Lyons is sufficient to warrant success in any enterprise which he undertakes. The high encomiums which the Almanac has received from the press are merited, and in every sense deserving.—College Message.
—The 20th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held on the 5th. The business of the evening consisted of appointing committees and the reading of the semi-annual reports of the treasurer, monitors and censors. Mr. Berteling was appointed assistant monitor.
—The 20th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club took place on the 6th. The semi-annual report of the Treasurer was read and approved. The report of the Censor was also read. The constitution and bylaws, as revised by Very Rev. President Corby, were read and signed.
—At a meeting of the Boat Club held Feb. 3d, 1878, the following officers were elected for the ensuing session: Director, Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.; Assistant Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.; President, Rev. C. H. Kelly, C. S. C.; Commodore, Patrick W. Mattimore; Secretary, Jno. G. Ewing; Treasurer, Virgil J. McKinnon; Capt. Minnehaha, Jno. J. Coleman; Capt. Hiawatha, Jno. J. McEniry. Messrs. Quinn and Ewing were appointed to notify the Directors and President of their election.
—We have received from Prof. Lyons a copy of his welcome Annual. Prof. Lyons has long been identified with Notre Dame University, and labors earnestly and successfully for the advancement of its interests. We notice that he is mistaken in asserting that certain festivals are not of obligation in Milwaukee and some other dioceses. The Almanac published by the Catholic Publication Society makes the same blunder. We wish Prof. Lyons’ Almanac success; it will prove pleasant reading to many.—Salesi-anum.
—The Scholastic Almanac is the title of a very handsome almanac published by J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind. It is extraordinarily rich in good reading-matter and contains interesting articles of the best kind. The Scholastic Almanac is one of the best we know of in the English language. Rich poetry interchanges with prose. We recommend the same to those who like to occupy themselves with English literature. It is to be wished that the al
manac had made its appearance sooner, towards the beginning of December.—Luxemburger Gazette.
—On Friday evening the students of the Senior and Junior Departments met in the Senior study-hall, when the Rev. Prefect of Studies read the percentage assigned to each student during the examination. After reading the percentage and expressing his satisfaction at the general result of the examination, he remarked that he had several premiums given to him by different members of the faculty to present to the Juniors who receved the highest percentage. K. L. Scanlan was awarded a prize for having the highest percentage in the Commercial Course; W. Cox and J. Arentz for maiked improvement in penmanship; F. Bloom and J. A. Burger (Scientific Course) each received 100 percentage, and were awarded premiums. A. J. Buerger and J. Guthrie, having the highest percentage in the Preparatory Course, received prizes. The following students received pictures from the Rev. Prefect of Religion, for Christian Doctrine: F. McGrath, C. Hagan, G. Cassidy, F. Carroll, J. Matthews, A Widdicombe, C. Walsh, M. Bannon, J. Healy, G. Cochrane, A. J. Burger, K. L. Scanlan, W. McCarthy, J. A. Gibbons, J. D. McNellis, F. > Clark, W. Jones, W. Walker, E. S. Walter, F. Singler, G. Donnelly, E. Pennington, and J. Guthrie.
—It is seldom that our reporter visits the well-known educational institution in our city, St. Joseph's Academy; nevertheless, the good Sisters there, forming a most efficient body of teachers, do their work quietly, earnestly and well. The semi-annual examination of the attending young ladies, which ended yesterday afternoon, was a most satisfactory proof of this. The junior classes, comprising a great number of intelligent little girls, answered most of the questions put to them by the examiners in a precise and ready manner, showing thereby that they had been carefully and conscientiously taught. The young ladies in the higher classes also displayed a great familiarity in handling more serious subjects, such as Mathematics, Grammar, and Composition. Tne examination in the musical department also proved, almost without exception, a decided success. The pupils evinced a thorough training in the rudiments or theory of music, which they showed in practice by the execution of difficult pieces. Several fine choruses were rendered by a large vocal class. A few excellent duets were also executed by Misses M. Keeler, M. Monahan, and A. Sanders. On the whole, the examination was creditable to both pupils and teachers. Among the visitors present we noticed Rev. J. Lautb, Rev. T. Czyzewski, and his able and gentlemanly teacher, Mr. N. Lanskif, Mrs. P. Gibbons, Mrs. Giddings, Mrs. P. Cahill, and others. The impartial visitor can scarcely bestow too much praise on the experienced and energetic teachers of St. Joseph’s Academy.—South Bend Register.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, T. Barry, M. W. Bannon, T. Barrett, P. J. Cooney, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, R. I. Chatterton, J. J. Carroll, P. Crueper, W. L. Dechant, J. Deehan, E. Dempsey, A. Dorion, C. K. De Vries, P. J. Daugherty, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, J. Fuerstein, W. C. Farrar, E. C. Gramling, A. Ginz, E. Gooley, 8. Gooley, P. J. Hagan, M. Hogan, A J. Hertzog, J. F. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, A. W. Johnson, J. P. Kinney,F. B. Keller, J. J. Krost, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, H. Murphy, H. Maguire, J. D. Montgomery, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, J. P. McHugh, M. McCue, J. J. McEniry, O. McKone, F. McMullen,$P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, E. McMahon, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, W. O’Brien, C. O’Brien, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, E. W. Robinson, J. dothert, Jas. Rice, J. Rabbitt, T. 8. Summers, J. J. Shugrue, S. T. Spalding, C. L. Stuckey, F. Williams, F. Walter, J. 8. Smith, J. R. Lambin, P. Horn, O. 8. Mitchell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, J. M. Byrne, J. Berteling, C. Brinkman, H. E. Canoil, J. Carrer, F. E. Carroll, C. E Cavanagh, G. P. Cas, sidy, F. Cavanaugh, T. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, J. Cassard,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
379
G. H. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, R. French, H. J. Fenner, P. Frain, L. Garceau, A. J. Buerger, J. L. Healy, J. F. Her-rick, G. L. It-tenbach, J. B. Ittenbaeh, J. R. Kelly, J. Lumley, J. L. Larkin, J. D. McNellis, W. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, J. Matthews, H. Newmark, J. O’Donnell, G. J. Orr, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, S. 8. Perley, J. L. Perea, R. W. Reynolds, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, K. L. Scaulan, G. E. Sugar, A. Sievers, W. Stang, C. Van Mourick, S. P. Welty, W. A. Widdicombe.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, J. Scanlan, A. Bushey, M. Herrick, W. Coolbaugh, O. Farrelly. N. Nelson, W. Coghlin, Jas. Courtney, J. Inder-rieden, G. Knight, R. Costello, F. Gaffney, A. Hartrath, W. Rheinhardt, Jos. Courtney, H. Snee, C. Garrick, C. Bushey, C. Long, C. Welty, J. McGrath, I. McGrath, J. Devine, T. O’Neill, F. Farrelly, P. Fitzgerald, J. Crowe, J. Inderrieden, E. Herzog, H. Kitz.
Class Honors.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
N. Nelson, W. Coolbaugh, J. Courtney, W. Coghlin, C. Crowe. R. Costello, A. Hartrath, Jas. Courtney, G. Lambin, G. Rhodius, W. McDevitt, O. Farrelly, A. Bushey, A. Coghlin, J. Scanlan. J. Inderrieden, C. McGrath, G. Knight.

—The semi-annual examination in the Academic Course was carried on, as usual, under the direction of three different bureaus, each consisting of from ten to fifteen examiners. The results of the examination are very satisfactory, the pupils, especially in the higher classes, showing proficiency in the various branches, and exhibiting also a quiet self-possession of manner much to be admired. Visitors expressed their admiration of the facilities which St. Mary’s affords for acquiring a substantial and thoroughly practical education, as well as in giving the most complete opportunities for obtaining perfection in belles-lettres and polite accomplishments generally. The average . notes in the branches taught are presented below.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
Graduating Class—Average note of examination, 99. Branches pursued: Christian Doctrine, Literature. Geometry, Geology, Mental Philosophy, Drawing’ Composition and Plain Sewing.
1st Senior Class—Average of examination, 98. Branches pursued: Christian Doctrine, Bible History, Rhetoric, Literature, History, Astronomy, Algebra, Composition, Elocution, Plain Sewing.
2d Sr. Class—Average note of examination, 9S. Branches pursued: Christian Doctrine, Bible History, Grammar, Rhetoric, Algebra, Arithmetic, Penmanship, Chemistrj', .History, Elocution, Composition, Plain Sewing.
3d Be. Class—Average note of Examination, 97. Branches pursued: Christian Doctrine, Bible History, Rhetoric, Grammar, Algebra, Arithmetic, History, Philosophy, Composition, Elocution and Plain Sewing.
1st Prep. Class—Average note of the examination, 94. Branches pursued: Christian Doctrine, Bible History, Grammar, Spelling, Geography, United States History, Writing, Arithmetic, Composition, Reading, and Plain Sewing.
2d Prep. Class—Average note of examination, 90. Branches pursued: Catechism, Grammar, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Writing, Reading, Composition and Plain Sewing.
Junior Prep. Class—Average note of examination, 94. Branches pursued: Catechism, Grammar, Spelling, Writing, Geography, Dictation, Reading, Composition and Plain Sewing.
1st Jr. Class—Average note of examination, 93. Branches taught: Catechism, Geography, Arithmetic, Reading, Writing, Grammar, Spelling, Dictation, Composition and Plain Sewing.
2d Jr. Class—Average note of examination, 98. Branches taught: Catechism, Spelling, Reading, Writing, Dictation, Arithmetic and Geography.
Promoted in. Arithmetic to the First Preparatory Class—Julia Kingsbury and Fannie Fitz.
Promoted in Geography to the Junior Preparatory Class, Julia Butts.
THE CONCERT OF WEDNESDAY
w as eminently a success. The Vocal Hall of St. Mary’s
presented a scene of artistic beauty which impressed all who entered. The southern extremity was covered with beautiful vines and ornamented with lovely devices in autumn leaves. In the southeast corner grew a luxuriant Passion vine; in the southwest corner, one of ivy. In the centre, under the statue of the Immaculate Conception, just beneath the outspread arms of the fair image, were three brilliant little lamps, two of ruby, and one of golden light. Embedded in ferns and bright leaves was the motto, “Welcome!” upon which the fairy fabric seemed to rest like a throne on a gem-begirt platform. Wirework flowerstands, loaded down with the bright gifts of the hot-house, were arranged at various points, and the piano was surrounded with lilies just in bloom. Birds in their cages, and hanging-baskets of flowers, were suspended in every available place, while festoons of pampas-grass imparted their own feather-like gracefulness to the objects they ornamented. All seemed to promise the charming treat which ensued.
At three o’clock the truly select and appreciative audience were assembled, and the faint, almost spirit-like tones of the “Venetian Boatman’s Song,” a chorus by the Vocal Class, opened the programme, so admirably in keeping with the beautiful surroundings.
A change was necessitated in the literary programme, as \ Mr. O’Connor, of Chicago, was obliged to leave very soon, X and his daughter, who is named later on, read in a clear and > feeling voice her essay, “ Piety, the atmosphere in which all Feminine Virtues Flourish.” We cannot comment point by point on the exercises of the afternoon, nevertheless must not omit to mention the admirable duett from Mozart’s “ Figaro ” by the Misses L. and A. Kirchner. . The wonderful development of vocal power in the first named young lady was remarked by everyone. The great improvement upon their attempts of one year ago, in the various members of the vocal class, shows in a most surprising manner the good results of earnest application and of faithful, constant training of the human voice. “ Cappriccio Brilliante,” by Miss T. Pleins, was the second remarkable feature of the day. The clearness, accuracy and powers of her touch were admirable, and she held her. audience spell bound from first to last. The same we may add of the song by Miss Foote, but her name is so familiar with those who have attended the entertainments at St. Mary’s that further praise is unnecessary. “Rhap-sodie Hongroise,” No. 8, played by Miss Wilson, was admirably rendered. In the last movement the presto was up to time, and all that could be desired. The touch of Miss Wilson, for a girl not sixteen, is. very powerful, and was the admiration of the visitors from Notre Dame, who are skilled in music. We are happy to be able to state that Rev. F. Lilly, C. S. C-, Brother Basil, C. S. C-, and Brother Leopold, C. S. C., expressed their complete satisfaction with the musical performance of the young ladies. We think we could add no higher praise. Besides the Rev. Chaplain and his Rev. assistant, Rev. Father Letourneau, C. S. C., honored the young ladies by his presence.
—In the semi-annual examination of the Latin Classes, pupils gave entire satisfaction by their prompt and intelligent answers. Average notes, 95.
—The examination of the classes in French was highly calculated to encourage all who are in earnest to acquire this beautiful language. The Rev. Father who presided, being himself a native of France, is well qualified to judge, and he expressed himself as truly astonished at the fluency in reading, the correct pronunciation and the promptitude of French replies given by the pupils. The semi-annual examination of the French Classes gives the following results:
1st French Class—Average, 95. Promoted to the 2d Div. of this Class: Misses J. Burgert, A. McGrath.
2d Class—Average, 93.
3d Class—Average, 90.
2d Div.—Average, 99.
The President of the Bureau commended these classes as remarkably proficient ior beginners since September.
The semi-annual examination of the German Classes was eminently successful,—far better than any previously held. The result is the formation of the First German Class. Promoted to the 1st Div.: Miss A. Kirchner; promoted to the 2d Div.: Misses C. Ortmeyer, S. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman, D. Gordon, L. Walsh. The average of this Class was 95.
2d German Class—Average, 98. Promoted from the 2d to
380
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the 1st Div. of this Class: Misses L. O’Neill, A. Henneberry, A. Reising, K. Barrett.
3d Class—Average, 97. This Class delighted the examiners ■with the readiness and accuracy of their replies, and gave most satisfactory proofs that their time has been conscientiously employed.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
The examination of music classes, presided by Mother Superior, lasted a week, one hour each day. Beginning with the lower grades, scales, finger exercises, and short pieces, selected according to the object of the preparatory studies, were carefully examined. The many promotions gave ample proof of the satisfactory result of the five months’ training, and bore testimony to the application of the pupils. Space does not permit particular mention of the different grades, the notes of standing in class given on the bulletins preclude the necessity. At the request of some of the visitors we mention a few of the pieces, vocal and insrumental, rendered by the Second and Third Classes.
“ Chant des Naiades”.............................(Ascher)
Miss E. Kirchner.	'
Song—“Bird of the Merry Greenwood”..................(Abt)
-	Miss A Kirchner.
“ Highland Gems ”..............................(W. Pape)
Miss A Harris.’
“ Fackletanze ”................................(Meyerbeer)
Miss N. Keenan. .
Cavetina—“ Robert ”...........................(Meyerbeer)
Miss M. Usselman.
“ Miserere ”—Trovatore.........................(Gottschalk)
Miss M. Spier. Song‘of Home ”.................................(Maeder)
Miss A. Gordon.
“Bacchanale”—Fantasio..........................(J. Wehli)
Miss E. O’Neill.
“ Rondo in G ”.................................(Beethoven)
Miss E. Miller.
“ Sing, Birdie, Sing”..............................(Ganz)
Miss A Brown.
“ Belisario ”..................................(A Goria)
Miss N. Galen.
“ Harp that once,” etc......................... (W. Pape)
Miss H. Buck. ’
“ Butterfly ”...................................(Carulli)
Miss L. Otto.
“ Last Rose of Summer ”............................(Herz)
Miss M. Usselman.
“Bunch of Violets”.................................(Pinsuiti)
Miss J. Winston.
“ Le Keve ”.................................(W. V. Wallace)
Miss A. Henneberry.
“ Reaper and the Flowers ”.........................(Balfe)
Miss K. Reardon.
‘ ‘ Robert le Diable ”.........................(S. Smith)
Miss A. Gordon.
Song—“ Welcome Home”..............................(Proch)
Miss A Geiser.
“ Lucia di Lammermoor ”........................(Prudent)
Miss L. Neu.
Song—“ Grave on the Heath ”........................(Hiser)
Miss S. Rheinboldt.
‘ ‘ Trovatore ”....................................(Verdi)
Miss J. Burgert.
The examination closed on the 31st. We give below the programme.	-	-
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
Promoted to the 2d Div., 1st Class: Miss L. Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses A Kirchner, M. Usselman. Average of Class, 90-95.	'
3d Class—Misses D. Gordon, L. Otto, A Brown. Promoted to this Class: Misses J. Winston, K. Reardon. Average of Class, 85-95.
Promoted to 2d Div.: Misses A. Geiser, S. Rheinboldt, E. Richardson.—Average, 80-90.
4th Class—Misses AL Casey, A Farrell. Promoted to this Class: Miss B. Anderson. Average, 75-85.
5th Class—Misses E. Galen, M. Hake, AL Mulligan, L. Schwass. Average, 70-80.
The following the programme of Wednesday.
Semi-Annual Reunion, Jan. 31st.
PROGRAMME.
Solo and Chorus—“ Venetian Boatman’s Song,—”
Solo, Miss A Kirchner. Vocal Class. Accompaniment, Miss Silverthorn.	•
Essay—“ Filial Devotedness ”............Miss L. O’Neill
Piano Solo—“Dream Wanderings”..................(Pratt)
Miss A. Geiser.
Vocal Duett—“Nun soil ich ?” Figaro...........(Mozart)
Misses L. and A. Kirchner.
Poem—“SweetElysium”......................Miss M. Spier
Perpetual Movement....................(C.	M. von Weber)
Miss C. Silverthorn.
Essay—“ Fortitude the Foundation of all true Heroism,—” ..........................................Miss P. Gaynor
Cavatina—“Tecea la Notte ”...............-..(Il Trovatore)
Miss L. Kirchner.
Cappriccio Brilliante....................(Mendelssohn)
Miss T. Pleins.
Duett—“Der|Engel”........................(A. Rubenstein)
Misses Usselman and Kirchner.
Essay—“ Piety the atmosphere in which all feminine virtues flourish ”..............................Miss M. O’Connor
Song.........................................Miss Foote
Essay—" Contentment Man’s unceasing Adoration ”
..........................................Miss A. Harris Rhapsodies Hongroises—No. 8..............(Liszt)
Miss B. Wilson.
Chorus from “Elijah”.....................(Mendelssohn)
Vocal Class. Accompaniment, Miss Silverthorn.
ART DEPARTMENT.
—The drawings and paintings executed since September 1st were examined Thursday afternoon (the 31st ult.) in St. Luke’s 'Studio. The various specimens in pencil, watercolor and oil-painting, did ample credit to each pupil. Studies from special objects constitute the different classes; as soon as a pupil draws satisfactorily from the flat objects she passes to a higher class, embracing more difficult studies. Many such promotions have been announced during the past session, therefore leaving comparatively few to send for the present report.
drawing.
Promoted to the 1st Class—Miss E. Lange.
2d Class—Average, 94. Promoted to this Class: Misses M. Spier, N. Davis, G. Welch.
3d Class—Average, 91.
4th Class—Average, 97.	’
5th Class—Average, 95.
General Drawing Class—Senior Department—Average, 90; Junior Department—Average, 87.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Average, 93.
3d Class—Average, 93.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Average, 94.
4th Class—Average, 92.
Miss Katie Young, of San Francisco, Cal., a former pupil of St. Mary’s Art Depaitment, is resuming her studies both in drawing and painting in St. Luke’s Studio.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRESS-MAKING.
1st Class—Misses L. Kirchner, L. Walsh, M. Cleary. 2d Class—Misses M. Spier, M. Sullivan, M. Hayes.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A Henneberry, L. O’Neill, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, A. Reising, B. Reynolds, H. Russell, M. Ewing, S. Moran, E. Lange, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, W. Dudley, C. Silverthorne, M. Way, N. Keenan, L. Keena, M. Luce, M. Danaher, K. Riordan, E. Shaw, M. Halligan, L. Otto, M. Brown, M. Wagner, T. Pleins, M. Plattenburg, K. Hackett, A. Brown, L. Walsh, J. Burgert, L. Schwass, Z. Papin, F. Brazelton, M. Sullivan, M. Galen, A. Farrell, M. and J. Winston, S. Rheinboldt, M. Hayes, M. Usselman, M. Cleary, E. Wright, E. Thomas, J. Barnes, M. Mullen, E. Kelly, 100 par excellence. Misses I. Fisk, N. McGrath, M. Casey, S. Hamilton, N. Davis, A. Woodiu, L. Kirchner,, K. Barrett, G. Welch, F. Cregier, A Thomas, K. Lloyd, D. Gordon, A. Morgan, B. Parrott, L. Neu, M. Loeber, E. Miller.
'	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses F. Kingfleld, A McGrath, A. Geiser, J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, L. Fox, M. Ivers, B. and T. Haney, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Mulligan, A. Ewing, A. Kirchner, L. Chilton. L. Ellis, L. Wood, E. Hackett, M. McFadden, M. Hake, A. McKinnis, F. Sunderland, L. French, L. Van Namee, M. Cox, J. Butts.
—Two persons of satirical turn met Sheridan and said: “Friend, we have been disputing whether you are most knave or fool.” Sheridan took each of the querists by the arm, and walking between them, after some hesitation replied, “ Why, I believe I’m between both.”

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
381
Attorneys at Law.
BRO w N «fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER <fc MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
mHOMAS I?. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.	■
FANNING <Sc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Boom 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN E. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE a DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE *fc MIIulLA-RD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
\ WlLLIA NT J. CL A BK.E (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES jV. O’REILLY—of ’69 —Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN T>. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law-and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
TimeTable-Noy. 11,1877.
		♦Day	•Kal.	+Atlantic! tNight	
	♦Mall	Express.	Accom.	Express.	Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich, City..	9 28 “	11 10 “	6 20 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		10 45 “	12 15 “	8 14 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 40 p.m	10 00 ”	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 45 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 «
Ar. Detroit		6 45 “	6 30 “		3 35 “	| 8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m		9 50 p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.n	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	4 00 a.m	2 53 “	2 25 a m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	4 24 “	12 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	7 50 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago		6 53	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 45 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p m.
“ N. Dame— 8 52	6 38 *•
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
•GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m
“ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 "	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, DI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’61], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
'Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN.published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AvE M ARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2-59.
THE south BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74> $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indiarapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kite, Clerk.
THE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop.,Niles,Michigan! Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St.-, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the' Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CALLING CARDS—no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
Qfri CENTS will obtain yon a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An Hlustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the spec! es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled -with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, localiiy, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Hlustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens Crystals and fragments	 Students’ size, larger	 Amateur's size, 2% in. x 1J4-... High School or Acad, size,2^x3 College size, 3)4x6 in., shelf sp	25 inbox $ 50 1 50 ecimenf	50 inbox $1 3 jlfspec 		loo inbox $1 50 6 linens	100 $ 1 5 10 25 500	200 $ 2 10 25 50 100	300 $—8 25 50 ICO 3 (0
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, Iff. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Scienc Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sentences ana of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
382	. THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago St. Mary’S Academy,
RAILWAY.
Tinie Talale, December 26, ISTT.
Northward Trains.		No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.		No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.	
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru			4.35 P. M 7.10 “ 8.10 “		12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ ■ 10.47 “	
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ L:i Porte	 “ Michigan City			8.25 P. 11. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.			11.10 A. M. 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “	
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W-Chi. & Detroit Ex.		No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.			No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis.... “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		5.30 P. M. 2.55 “ 1.50 “		4.10 A. M. 1.50	“ 12.38	“			9.10 A. M. 6.33	“ 5.37 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. M. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. M.		12.33 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 8.50 “ 8.05 “			
NOTRE DAME, NDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Hol? Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Deoartments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music. .
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
Si. JU ary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.'
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE.
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen'l Manager, Indianapolis.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
■ Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only Une between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Mabvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 P.M. 12.53 “ 3.10 A.M. 4.46 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 1250 p.m. 2.30 “ 440 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “ 5.35 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,		7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.30 P.M. 3.45 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.30 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25. “ 12 25 a.m.	
Lima,.'					
Ft.Wayne,	.. Plymouth,	'.. Chicago,	Arrive			2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “		
GOING EAST.				
	bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,		Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	' Lima,		9.10 p.m. 2.46 AM. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 1145 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 pat. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M.		
Forest,						2.48 “ 4.25 “	
Crestline,	Arrive				
Crestline	Leave Mansfield,	' Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.30 “ 4.05 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.21 A.M. 2.30	4.30 A.M. 5.00 “ 7.10 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 “	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday. THIS IS THE ONLY LINE That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	- FjB. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.				
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
383
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
TTxTTDTJAJSrJL-
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dau}e, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, lam.
7 16 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 210 am; Cleveland, 7 1'5 a m; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 4,3 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4, 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chicago. 11 10 a. m.
8 4=5 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Oleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
’	CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy's, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Ur,Mo. TYPE FOUNDERS,
CHICAGO,
Have the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from best quality of metal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manu. factured by Marder, Luse &Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.	• jan 5-3m
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS:
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Grouudhoggery, Calendars, The Months—description, etc.,
January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December, The Two Rules,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women,
Pio Nono, A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q, In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer, The Duty of our Young
Men,
Over the Leaves, Negro Miustrelsy, Questions, Who was She ?
Sonnet,
Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella, Aerolites.
Address,
Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
J. A. LIONS,
2Voti-e Dame, Ind.;
or,
The Scholastic Printing' Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
SAMUEL HLA-EdFS/TS,
MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IK
AMATEUR TOOLS,
•	■	FOR
Amateurs, Boys and Girls.
Turning Lathes,	Scroll Saws,
Hand Saws,	Saw Blades,
Fancy Woods,	New and Handsome
Small Engine Castings,	designs for Brace-
Small Tools of all Kinds, lets, etc.
Also, Publisher of
The Amateur Mechanic,
A Monthly Journal of Practical Information for Amateurs, Boys and Girls. 50 Cents per Annum.
Send Stamp for sample Copy. Address
SAMUEL HARRIS,
decs tf 15 South Canal Street, Chicago, III.
384	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
GREENBACKS
FOR BOR'D HOLDERS!
GREENBACKS
x FOR GOLD GAMBLERS!
GREENBACKS
FOR NATIONAL BARKERS!
GREENBACKS
FOR THE PEOPLE!
GREENBACKS	.
FOR ALL PURPOSES!
For which money is used interchangahle at par with Gold and Silver, in a sufficient quantity as to promote industry, invite immigration, and develop the resources of the country, is what the	.
CINCINNATI ENQUIRER
Claims is the only remedy for the ills brought upon the country by Legislation and Laws, enacted for the benefit of a Monied Class, and the oppression of Labor and Industry.
Government Credit sustains our Bonds for the benefit of the wealthy, let the same Credit
Sustain Greenbacks
For the benefit of the People who sustain the Government.
Daily 3EnqTLtrcr, per year, - $12.00
AVe elily Enquirer, “	-	-	1.15
Free of Postage.
Agents wanted.
Send for specimen copies.
FAEAN & McLEAN, Publisher
CINCINNATI, O.
A NEW SYSTEM
OF
German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind,
Published by FR. PUSTET,
52 Barclay Street, NEW YORK, ana 204 vine street, CINCINNATI.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington. Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
A NEW DRAMA.
“THE UPSTART;’’
A Comedy in Three Acts, adapted from the French of Moliere’s
LE BOURGEOIS GENTILHOMME, and arranged for Male Characters only, By A. J. ST ACE; and. Edited by JOSEPH A. LYONS.
This play is dedicated to the Members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association,—the former, present, and yet to be.
Price 25 Cents.
“The Upstart” has been played at Notre Dame a number of times. Parts in this drama have been taken by Messrs. Berdel, Dod^e, Ashton, Roberts, Foote, Dwyer, Wile, Foley, W. Dodge,. Clarke, Mahony, Staley. Dum, Hutchings, Cochrane, Spillard, Nash, McHugh, Brown, Reilly, McGinnis, McOsker, Rumely, Goodhue, Shanks, Hunt and others. Hence
Evert Member of the St. Cecilia Philomathean
Association,
PAST AND PRESENT, should procure a copy.	’
Sent post free on receipt of price.
■ P. FOX, Publisher,
.	14 SOUTH FIFTH ST.,
ST. LOUIS,-MO-
Chicago, B. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Ttonte to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
. Leave. Arrive..
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express.......;............10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo’, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville. H., and Louisiana, Mo........3 40 pm 12 30 pm Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.........................  .7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express... ..8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.