Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus ; vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 31, 1879.
Number 38.
Thomas Moore.
Mat 28, 1879.
Tae strangar shall hear thy lament on his plains, The sight of thy harp shall be sent o’er the deep, Till thy masters themselves, as they rivet thy chains, Shall pause at the song of their captive and weep.
—T. Moore.
Mute hung the harp on Tara’s walls, No touch its music waking, Only the hope-fraught western wind The mournful silence breaking.
In vain men died to give it voice, Vainly in silence suffered;
Truly to set the broken strings ' No aid the Saxon proffered.
Murmured sad Erin, from the harp One sacred chord unstringing, “ Perchance the hearts that heed not tears
•• Will list a poet’s singing;
The broad, deep stream that calmly flows
Doth mutely mirror heaven:
Unto the bird that warbles near Its wider message given.”
Softly she raised her poet’s lyre, The tears her bright eyes blending, Amid its chords of bravest song
The string from Tara binding;
Glittered the sorrow-tarnished thread, The fairest of the seven—
Unblessed the lyre that hath no chord For country and for Heaven!
The poet bore his gift afar, His island’s sorrow singing— Sweet pity's tear of sympathy In alien hearts upspringing— Singing her true-eyed maiden’s faith, Her king’s old battle glory, Ere fair-haired Saxon wrought the wrong That darkens Ireland’s story.
Men turned from Cashmere’s rose-strewn plains To hear of truer loving, Left Eden’s open gates to list A nation’s sad reproving.
Echoed'across the narrow seas
The lyre’s melodious sighing, Unto the string that Erin loosed a Mute Tara’s harp replying.
Still echoing over broader seas,
Salt waves the music bearing,
The true notes rested in fond hearts, A people’s sorrow sharing.
To-day unto the poet’s song
Is world-wide tribute given;
The olden echoes wake again Beneath a brighter heaven.
They rise from Ireland’s saint-pressed sod, From leagues of prairie grasses;
Low sound from far-off golden waves, Drift through Sierra passes.
See! ’mid the bays, the English rose With holy shamrock blending, Acacia from wide Southern seas
Its yellow sunshine lending.
While Erin lifts brave Brian’s harp, Her poet’s birthday keeping, Quick blood from fiery Irish hearts Through countless veins is leaping.
Dim were the poet’s brightest verse Lacking his country’s blessing, False sweetest song of Irish harp If Tara’s chord were missing.
—Catholic World.
The Month of May.
“Summer once more is here!
April hath laughed or wept itself away, And in its place the welcome-footed May Gladdens the opening year.”
To the lover of nature and the careful observer of the different changes she undergoes, and the many aspects she presents at different times of the year, nothing is worthier of consideration nor more fruitful in good thoughts than to contemplate her beauties in this month of May. It has oft been said that May is the most beautiful month of the year—most beautiful in a natural, and most practicable in a symbolical point of view. Upon reflection we find that a multitude of facts go to prove the truth of the assertion. Compare May with the remaining months. Take November, December, January, February, commonly called winter months. Scarcely a single feature could, in the point at issue, be favorably compared to the transcendent beauties of May. Falling leaves; cold, snowy days; piercing winds and raging tempests seem, in truth, to characterize this season of the year and stamp it with just the contrary of beauty. Nature is sad, and grieves at the loss of tuneful song, green leaf, and gentle sunshine. Not so in the month of May. Every living germ then unfolds to nature’s gaze. Green fields, blooming trees, opening flowers and merry song thus form a pleasing contrast to cold November or bleak December, to stormy January or rainy February. March and April could not realize the idea of May’s fair scenes. March is yet cold, and treacherous; a few sunny days, a few early songsters, and perhaps a few wild flowers would fain expose themselves to its constant changes. April paves the road, as it were, over which
586	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
nama May is to travel. April moistens the soil, melts the last remnants of snow, calls from their winter abode the •ongsters of the forest, bids the sun to entice from beneath the soil the seedling plant. Freneau makes May address April thus:
“ Without your showers I breed no flowers;
Each field a barren waste appears;
If you don’t weep,
My blossoms sleep,
They take such pleasure in your tears.
“As your decay
Makes room for May
So I must part with all that’s mine;
My balmy breeze, My blooming trees, To torrid zones their sweets resign.
“For April dead
My shades I spread, To her I owe my dress so gay;
Of daughters three It falls on me
To close our triumphs and our day.
“Thus to repose
All nature goes, Month after month must find its doom;
Time on the wing, May ends the Spring, And Summer frolics o’er her tomb.”
The scorching heat of July and August, fading the flower, blighting leaf and bud, hushing the song of birds, making living beings seek for shade, and withering the whole kingdom of flowers—though not without its advantages, is no way calculated to lessen our estimation of May. September and October are to the year what old age is to man—simply a season of rapid decline and first steerage towards the portals of death; and as the old man retains somewhat of the features that adorned his youth, so do these two months now and then show a late flower, an echoing song, or a scene of beauty. Indeed May claims superiority to, and* stands unrivalled among her brother months. May is the brightest gem of the crown that ages past and yet unborn entwine yearly around the wrinkled brow of old Father Time. As a stream winds now through steep rocks, now dashes with a tumultuous roar over a precipice, now leaves its waters repose ’neath hoary veteran oaks of the forest, now glides along meadows of shaded green, and passes by grand cities, so does May in its yearly round of thirty-one days greet the children of spring, until finally absorbed into the ocean of time.
May, then, excels in point of beauty of natural scenery. But besides these charms peculiar to her sunny days, she claims to be, and really is, like to a fairy queen, more profuse in her beauties in some regions than in other less favored spots. Notre Dame and surroundings present at all seasons a pleasing variety of natural scenery; but at no time does nature decorate her so lavishly as during this month of May. True, sad and desolate is the spot where a month before stood our beloved College, and mirrored its imposing structure in the adjacent placid lakes. The fire-fiend has done its work, and mercilessly destroyed what we loved so much, but could not save. But whenever now we stand upon its ruins, and gaze from the dreary scenes ’neath our feet upon the surrounding landscapes, we cannot but feel buoyed up and strengthened in our hopes, to see, ere September has withered
flowers and leaf, how Notre Dame has risen from her tomb, even as the budding rose and blooming tree will soon expose their fruits and flowers. Each returning May has ever been the theme for the student’s composition. This year a sad change took place when April had already prepared the soil for flower and herb, and May was dawning; then a sudden separation tore him from the spot where dwelled his thoughts. But let him be assured that although the College is down, not so are the spirits of those chosen few who now loiter around the dreary scenes, but will watch its rise and completion with ever increasing eagerness.
May in its diversified scenes of beauty has ever been the ideal of the painter and poet; for the artist does but imitate nature. The fairest landscapes are drawn when flower and leaf are in deepest color, when the spring is clearest, when the air is purest, when scenes of loveliness are untinged from summer’s heat or winter’s frost—in the month of May. Thompson, the poet of nature, can find no scenes more beautiful than those of spring, of May in “Merry England.” Milton, too, did not think unfit to sing of May in the following strain:
“Now the bright morning star, day’s harbinger, Comes dancing from the East, and leads with her The flowery May, who from her green lap throws The yellow cowslip and the pale primrose.
Hail, beauteous May!-----------
Woods and groves are of thy dressing, Hill and dale doth boast thy blessing Thus we salute thee with our early song And welcome thee, and wish thee long.”
Already this choicest month has come, and gone. The scenes of beauty, and gladness, will soon have vanished, like the dew-drops before the rising sun. But to'those who admire nature’s beauties, and love to contemplate her with an innocent heart and upright mind, May will not leave without sweet memories and practical suggestions. The opening rose that now greets the morning sun, will, ere many months have passed, lie withered and prostrate on the ground: so it is with man. The fiery youth that now revels in youthful strength, and with eager gaze looks into the future, he too must ere long sleep under the green sod, and give his place to others to admire the scenes of beauteous May.	M. L.
Ireland’s National Poet.
One hundred years ago to-day (Wednesday) Thomas Moore was born. The Scholastic therefore gladly gives up a considerable space this week to make room for a poetical tribute to the poet and a sketch of his life. The former is taken from the Catholic World, and the latter, a most judicious piece of critical biography, in which the author “ naught extenuates, and naught sets down in malice,” is a selection made by Mr. Donahoe for his Magazine for June, written by Mr. Alfred Webb.
Thomas Moore, poet and prose-writer, was born at 12 Aungier street, Dublin, May 28,1779. His father, John Moore, kept a grocer’s shop, which he had probably established with the small fortune he received with his wife, Anastasia Codd, a Wexford girl. Both parents were Catholics. Young Moore’s cheerful and sprightly disposition made him a favorite with many besides his own family. One of his earliest recollections was of being taken to a public dinner in honor of Napper Tandy, and sitting on that gen-
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	587
tleman’s knee. At an early age he was sent to a school kept by a Mr. Malone, and a little later to the academy of the well-known teacher, Samuel Whyte, where Sheridan and many distinguished men received their education. Whyte was passionately fond of the stage, and encouraged young Moore’s declamatory and histrionic powers; and hefore he was twelve years of age his name appeared in the handbills of his master’s private theatricals. He soon began to scribble verses, and when fourteen was referred to in the “ Anthologia Hibernica ” as “ our esteemed correspondent, T. M.” His family were anxious he should go to the bar, and such were then the disqualifications to which Catholics were subjected, that it was seriously debated whether he should not be entered on the books of Trinity College as a Protestant. His mother strongly opposed such a step, which was, however, rendered unnecessary by the legislation of 1793, which opened the University to Catholics, and he entered in 1794 with much credit, under his true designation. At college he showed more disposition to cultivate the modern than the ancient languages. He joined the College Historical Society, of which Robert Emmet and Arthur O’Connor were then the most prominent members. Edward Hudson, one of those afterwards arrested at Bond’s, and Robert Emmet, were among his most intimate friends; and nothing but his mother’s influence prevented Moore himself becoming perhaps fatally involved in the revolutionary movement of 1798. In his diary he gives a graphic account of the difficulty with which he pulled through without implicating any of his friends, at the visitation of the Chancellor (Lord Clare) for the purpose of clearing the college of students infected with revolutionary principles. Thanks to a friendship with the librarian of Marsh’s library, Moore had free access to it even during the summer months, when it was closed to the public, and in exploring its shelves he laid up much of that out-of-the-way information which afterwards appeared in his works. He acquired a tolerable knowledge of Italian from a Catholic clergyman, and of French from a refugee. In 1799 he took the degree of B. A., and next year entered at the Middle Temple, London. An introduction to Lord Moira soon made him at home at his seat near London, and the best literary society of the metropolis was opened to him. He delighted all by his pleasant manners, literary tastes, and effective, although not brilliant, musical abilities. He brought with him to London his “ Odes of Anacreon ” in manuscript, which, published by subscription in 1800, were much admired, and established his reputation as a poet. In 1801, I under the pseudonyme of “ Thomas Little,” he published a volume of light poetical pieces, which brought him £60, but did not add much to his reputation. In 1803, through Lord Moira’s influence and the friendship of Lady Donegal, Moore received the appointment of Admiralty Registrar at Bermuda, and proceeded thither in the Phaeton frigate. The seclusion of the Bermuda Islands was, however, little to his taste, and after a residence extending only from January to April, 1804, he confided his duties to a deputy, and made an extended tour through the United States and Canada, during which hs wrote his poems relating to America, and had the good fortune to be presented by the British minister to President Jefferson. The institutions of the country were little to his taste; but we can scarcely excuse the coarse terms in which he afterwards wrote of it and its inhabitants. His conception of the enormity of slavery was clear and decided. In October, 1804, Moore
returned to England in the Boston frigate, with his friend Captain Douglas, to the great joy of his numerous friends. Lord Moira now procured a situation for his father in the customs; but Moore for himself preferred trusting to his talents for a livelihood. In 1806 he published a volume of Odes, Epistles, and other Poems, for which he was criticised in the “Edinburgh Review” as “the most licentious of modern versifiers, and the most poetical of the propagators of immorality.” His “ Odes of Anacreon ” had perhaps given some ground for these charges, but it is impossible that Jeffrey was prejudiced against him on account of his aristocratic tendencies. A duel between them at Chalk Farm, in the month of August, 1806, was interrupted by the police. Both gentlemen were subjected to much ridicule when it was stated that the bullet had fallen out of Jeffrey’s pistol, and it was suggested that, by consent, both pistols were leadless. Jeffrey and Moore after this became fast friends. The latter says, “ He had taken a fancy to me from the first moment of our meeting together in the field, and I can truly say that the liking for him is of the same early date.” Lord Byron mentioned the duel with ridicule in “English Bards and Scotch Reviewers,” and in his turn was challenged by Moore. The letter was delayed some months in reaching its destination, and the affair terminated in a good-humored explanation from Byron and a lifelong friendship between them. In 1807 Moore entered into an arrangement with Mr. Power, the musical publisher, to write suitable words to a collection of old Irish tunes, which were to be arranged by Sir John Stevenson. The “ Irish Melodies ” were completed in ten numbers, issued between 1807 and 1834. Supposing him to have received the full remuneration agreed upon (£500 per annum), he was paid for them £5 a line. They are the most lasting monuments of his genius, and have been translated into both Latin and Irish. Byron declared some of them were “ worth all the epics that ever were composed”; while the “Biographie Generale” says, “ Thomas Moore has vividly reproduced in his Melodies the characteristic traits of Irish music. Originality is the special claim of these short pieces. They have neither the vigor, nor the nature, nor the profound and passionate sensibility of the works of another national poet, Robert Burns: but, at the same time, they have not the same air of rudeness. A sustained elegance, a lightness, a tenderness, an esprit, a rich and brilliant imagery, give them a durable, though perhaps a somewhat artificial charm.” Of the same character as the “Irish Melodies” are the “ National Melodies,” published in 1815, and the “ Sacred Songs,” in 1816. Three satirical pieces “ Corruption,” “Intolerance,” and “The Sceptic,” appeared in 1808 or 1809. In 1811 he married Miss Bessy Dyke. Lord John Russell says, “ From 1811, the year of the marriage, to 1852, that of his death, this excellent and beautiful person received from him the homage of a lover, enhanced by all the gratitude, all the confidence, which the daily and hourly happiness he enjoyed was sure to inspire. Thus, whatever amusement he might find in society, whatever sights he might behold, whatever literary resources he might seek elsewhere, he always returned to his home with a fresh feeling of delight. The time he had been absent had always been a time of exertion and of exile; his return restored him to tranquillity and peace.” “I’d Mourn the Hopes that Leave me,” “’T is all for Thee,” and others of his poems were addressed to her. In public life he lost none of his home-affections. With a never-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC;
dying love, he wrote regularly twice a week to his parents, and settled £100 a year on them as soon as he could afford it At first he and his wife lived at Lord Moira’s; in the spring of 1812 he took a house at Keyworth, whence they removed next summer to Mayfield Cottage, near Ashbourne. His independence was strikingly shown in 1814 by the publication of the “ Twopenny Postbag,” by Thomas Brown the Younger, a bitter satire directed against the Prince of Wales and his ministers. It immediately became popular, and ran through fourteen editions in one year. In 1812 Messrs. Longman offered him £3,000 for an Oriental romance he had in contemplation. The work, “Laila Rookh,” was not written until after the most careful and extensive reading on Eastern subjects, until he had thoroughly imbued his mind with Oriental tradition and romance. It was published in 1817, and was received most favorably; but the estimate of his contemporaries, and even of Lord John Russell, writing in 1853, has not been endorsed by more recent critics, “ Laila Rookh ” now holding a far inferior place to the “ Irish Melodies,” and many of his lighter pieces. In the autumn of 1817 Moore occupied Sloperton Cottage, near Devizes, at the moderate rent of £40 a year. It continued, with intervals, to be his residence during the rest of his life. Next year he visited Ireland, where he was received with the most flattering attentions, and hailed as the national bard of the country. In the same year he went to Paris with his friend Rogers, and laid up materials for his humorous piece, “ The Fudge Family in Paris.” In 1818 it was found that his deputy at Bermuda had absconded, leaving him responsible for some £6,000, and next year, pending a settlement, he was obliged to retire to the Continent. With Lord John Russell he travelled through France and Switzerland to Milan, and spent some time at Venice with Lord Byron. Moore returned by the South of France to Paris, where his wife and family joined him in January, 1820. During the three years he resided abroad he wrote “ The Epicurean ” and “ The Loves of the Angels.” At length a settlement was made with his creditors (chiefly by means of a loan from Lord Lansdowne, which he was soon enabled to repay), and in November, 1822, he returned to his home at Sloperton Cottage. During Moore’s visit to Italy, Byron made him a present of his manuscript autobiography, upon condition that it should not be published until after his death. Pressed for money in April, 1824, he sold it to Murray, the publisher, for £2,100. Byron died the same month. Lady Byron and her family desired its destruction, and offered to reimburse the publisher what he had paid upon it. Moore resisted the proposition for some time, and at last, nobly resolving to meet the loss himself, paid Murray the £2,100, with interest, and burned the manuscript. Scarcely any action of his life has been more canvassed; there can, however, be little doubt of his disinterestedness and conscientious desire to do what was right. A delightful episode was his visit to Abbotsford in October, 1825, where he was received with all the warmth of Sir Walter Scott’s nature. His “ Life of Richard B. Sheridan ” was published in the same year, and in 1827 “ The Epicurean,” which, “though perhaps the least popularly known of Moore’s works, is by some considered among the most chaste and exquisite.” Macaulay say* that, “ considered merely as a composition, his ‘ Life of Lord Byron,’ published in 1830, deserves to be classed among the best specimens of English prose our age has produced.” In 1831 was published his “Life of Lord Edward Fitzgerald,” a feeling tribute to
the memory of that nobleman. Moore had visited Ireland with his wife in the previous year, principally to collect materials for this work. His plodding literary labors were often lightened by visits to London, where his wit and musical talents made him ever welcome at the gayest and most brilliant assemblages. In 1832 an ineffectual effort was made to induce him to stand as candidate for Limerick, under O’Connell’s banner. In 1835, under the ministry of Lord Melbourne, a Civil List pension of £300 was settled on him. In the same year he again paid a flying visit to Ireland, and was lionized in Dublin, enjoyed the beauties of the County of Wicklow from the top of a four-in-hand drag, and was feted at Wexford and at Bannow,'where his friends, Mr. and Mrs. 8. C. Hall, then resided. This was one of several visits necessitated by his preparation of the “History of Ireland.” In his “Captain Rock,” already published, he showed that a protracted residence in England had not extinguished his love of country or lessened his indignation at the disabilities under which his coreligionists suffered. His “History of Ireland” (which appeared between 1839 and 1846, forming four volumes of “ Lardner’s Cyclopaedia ”) brings the history of the country down to the death of Owen Roe O’Neil in 1646. Although written in an easy and attractive style, it does not possess much merit. The “Athenaeum” remarked at the time of its publication: “Mr. Moore fortunately brings to his labors not only extensive learning in the rarely trodden paths of Irish history, but strict impartiality, rendered still more clear and uncompromising by an ennobling love of liberty. Every page of this work contains evidence of research; and innumerable passages might be cited in proof of the independent and truth-seeking spirit of the author.” This “History” was Moore’s last important work. In 1841 he collected and published his poetical works in ten volumes crown octavo, with illustrations. The prefaces contain many interesting particulars regarding his life. His latter days were embittered by the death of the last of his children. Anne, aged five, died in 1817; Anastasia Mary, aged seventeen, in 1829; Olivia Byron lived but a few months; John Russell died in India, aged nineteen, in 1842, a cadet in the East India Company’s service; and Thomas Lansdowne, his eldest son, a wild youth, died in Algiers, in the French service, in 1849, aged twenty-seven. Like Swift, Scott, and Southey, the end of Moore’s life was passed in an increasingly depressed condition, owing to softening of the brain. Sustained to the last by the tender solicitude of his wife, he died at Sloperton,—
“ That dear home, that saving ark, • Where love’s true light at last I’ve found, . Cheering within when ail grows dark
And comfortless and stormy around,”—
26th February, 1852, aged seventy-two. He was buried in Bromham churchyard, within view of his cottage-home, and beside his beloved daughter Anastasia. Mrs. Moore was laid beside him, 4th September, 1865, aged sixty-eight. She made an appropriate gift to the Royal Irish Academy of his library, portrait, and view of Sloperton cottage. The “Encyclopaedia Britannica” concludes an appreciative notice of Moore with the words, “ Her (Ireland) he served with all his soul and strength, uplifting her banner in the hour of darkest danger; and with the names of Grattan and Curran, as Irish patriots, that of Thomas Moore will be forever associated.” He was small in stature and slight, his eyes were bright and sparkling, his mouth delicately cut and expressive, his “slightly-tossed” nose con
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	589
firming the fun that lurked on his countenance. Concerning his religious opinions and character, Lord John Russell writes: “He was bred a Roman Catholic, and in his mature years he published a work (‘Captain Rock’) of some learning in defence of the chief articles of the Roman Catholic faith. He alse wrote a book entitled ‘ Travels of an Irish Gentleman in Search of a Religion,’ which he dedicated to the people of Ireland in defence of their ancient national faith.... Of two things all who knew him must have been persuadsd: the one, his strong feelings of devotion, his aspirations, his longing for life and immortality, and his submission to the will of God; the other, his love of his neighbor, his charity, his Samaritan kindness for the distressed, his good-will to all men. In the last days of his life he frequently repeated to his wife, ‘ Lean upon God. Bessy; lean upon God!’ That God is love was the summary of his belief; that a man should love his neighbor as himself seems to have been the rule of his life.Never did he make his wife and family a pretext for political shabbiness; never did he imagine that to leave a disgraced name as an inheritance to his children was his duty as a father.... .Mingling careful economy with an intense love of all the ehjoyments of society, he managed, with the assistance of his excellent wife, who carried on for him the detail of his household, to struggle through all the petty annoyances attendant upon narrow means, to support his father, mother, and sister, besides his own family, and at his death he left no debt behind him.” The very high estimate of his literary abilities entertained by Byron, Scott, Russell, and his contemporaries generally, has scarcely stood the test of time; but theie is little doubt that his “ Melodies,” wedded as they are to such appropriate music, will continue to delight generations,—melodies whose grace and tenderness were never more effectively rendered than when sung by himself. Lord John Russell, his literary executor, edited his “Memoirs,” in eight volumes, in 1853-56. The first volume and half the second are occupied with an unfinished autobiography and a selection from his letters, the rest of the work, chiefly with a slightly abridged diary, extending from August, 1818, to October, 1847. Allibone devotes five pages to an exhaustive critical enumeration of Moore’s writings. His father died in 1825, and his mother in 1832; they lie buried with his sister in St. Kevin’s churchyard, Dublin. A beautiful stained-glass- window has been inserted in Brom ham Church, to the memory of his wife. A statue of Thomas Moore was erected in Dublin shortly after his decease. •
Grand Historical Tableaux in the Austrian Capital.
An interesting entertainment on the occasion of the silver wedding of the Emperor and Empress of Austria being given at the palace of the Archduke Charles Louis, the Emperor’s brother, the latter conceived the happy thought of having the most important circumstances in the history of the time-honored house of Hapsburg-Lor-raine represented by the descendants of the illustrious house itself, the members of the imperial family. The most accomplished artists, poets and musicians were put at once in requisition; the original crown-jewels regalia, arms and vestments were procured from the imperial treasury chamber, the Ambrase collection, and the Arsenal; the deficiency being supplied by copies of originals under |
the direction of the celebrated painters Angeli, Paul and Markard. The poem of the day, including prologue, explanation of the different scenes, and epilogue, was delivered by the author, Professor Joseph Weslen, of the Vienna University. The assembly consisted of only twenty-three persons, chiefly members of the imperial family, and other princes and princesses present at the time in Vienna. At half-past six p. m. the Emperor and Empress arrived, and the entertainment commenced at once. We need not say that the pains taken at the rehearsals, the splendid arrangement of costumes, stage and assembly hall produced as perfect a result as could be desired. Yet the feast was merely that of a family circle assembled to please an affectionate and kind-hearted brother, rather than to honor one of the best of modern sovereigns, who, like a Count of Wurtemburg of time long gone by, can boast of being, in our own day, the richest prince in the affections of the people.
An overture, composed for the occasion and executed by twelve artists of the imperial orchestra, being finished, the first tableaux presented itself before the eyes of the assembly. Its theme was King Rudolph of Hapsburg, the founder ofthe house of Austria,in the “Reicghstag” atAugs-burg bestowing upon his two sons, Albert and Rudolph, the Duchies of Austria, Styria, Karinsina, the Windish Mark and Porteneau. The tableau made a grand impression. The old Emperor Rudolph was represented by the CrownPrince, Rudolph, who, with the crown on his head and the sceptre in his hand, bore a striking resemblance to an old and true likeness, still extant, of his illustrious ancestor.
After a brief pause came the second tableau, representing Duke Albert the Wise issuing a manifesto at Vienna, on the 25th of November, 1355, to the effect that the Austrian dominions should remain the indivisible property of his four sons, Rudolph IV, Albert IH, Frederick III, and Leopold HI; and that the government of the dominion should rest with the eldest. The most pleasing effect of this tableau was the richness of the various * colors and the truly historical reproduction. In the third tableau we behold the first meeting of the Crown Prince Maximilian (afterwards Emperor) at Ghent, with his bride, Mary, Princess of Burgundy, on the 14th of August, 1477. The Archduchess Gisela, the Emperor Francis Joseph’s daughter, represented, in a charming costume, the Burgundian princess. The bride’s father, Duke Charles “the Bold” was one of the most powerful and illustrious princes of his age, his only fault being an unrestrained ambition, which led him to an untimely death at the battle of Nancy.
The fourth tableau represented Charles at the diet of Worms on the 28tb of April, 1521, appointing his brother the Archduke Ferdinand sovereign of the entire Austrian dominions. The most conspicuous figure in the tableau was, of course, the Crown Prince, Rudolph, who personated Charles V, in a Spanish costume of yellow silk, and wearing the identical insignia of the order of the Golden Fleece borne by the Emperor Charles on that occasion. A recess of half an hour for refreshments in a dining-hall adjacent to the drawing-room was then taken, after which the fifth tableau was enacted. It was entitled the Emperor Leopold greeting Duke Charles of Lorraine on his return from Ofen, which he re-captured from the Turks. This event took place in Vienna in October, 1868. The Archduke Eugene represented the Emperor Leopold, the youthful hero being personated by the Crown Prince, in full
590
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
armor of the period, and in his hand the marshal’s staff. The Empress Maria Theresa, and Charles her husband, surrounded by their whole family, receiving the infanta Isabella of Parma, bride of the hereditary prince Joseph, at Luxemburg, on the 1st of October 1760, was the subject of the sixth tableau. The most charming feature of this tableau was the presence of quite a number of the younger members of the imperial house, the little Archdukes dressed in red velvet breeches and white uniforms richly embroidered with gold, and the little Archduchess in the farthingale dress of the period. Even the youngest child of Maria Theresa, the little Mary Annunciata, then only three years old, was fitly represented by a little princess of the same age. The Emperor Francis was again personated by the Crown Prince, wearing the uniform of an Austrian field marshal of that time, and decked with the grand master’s cross of the Teutonic Knigths formerly worn by the Emperor Francis himself.	-
Thus the heir to the crown was selected, not without a certain design, to represent the founder Rudolph, then Charles V, under whom the empire reached the pinnacle of its glory, afterwards the characters of the Princes of Lorraine who connected the house of Austria with their own and thus became the founders of the dynasty of Haps-burg-Lorraine. In the fifth tableau the original crowns of j the German Empire, of Hungary, and Bohemia were seen on the table, and in the sixth tableau genuine trophies and banners, taken two hundred years before from the Turks at the conquest of Ofen, were brought into service. At the verses of the epilogue, the national anthem was struck up, beginning in a very low tone, but gradually increasing, and at the words “Heil Franz Joseph und Elizen Segen Habsburg, ganzem Hans ” all the princes and prin-.. cesses of the imperial family that had been engaged in the tableaux, entered the hall in their costumes and paid their compliments to the imperial couple. In conclusion, magnificent copies of the poem were handed by Archduke Charles Louis, first to the imperial couple and then to each 'of the guests, among whom were noticed the families of the Duke of Coburg, the Duke and Duchess of Cumberland and the Duke of Nassau.
It may not be consistent with our republican traditions to dwell at length on the splendors of royalty, but as Catholics we may make an exception in favor of the house of Austria. It is true that some of the Austrian Emperors, beginning even with Albert, son of Rudolph of Hapsburg, had now and then some difficulties with the Sovereign Pontiffs, and that Joseph II even proved a bitter enemy to the Catholic Church, but these conflicts may justly be reckoned exceptions to the general rule that the Austrian dynasty has been faithful to the Church and the Vicar of Christ on earth. The present Emperor, Francis Joseph, who deserves to live in a better time than ours, has done a great deal to counteract the baneful influence of modern statecraft and irreligion in his dominions. But for his interference, a persecution of the Church, perhaps not as violent as the one now raging in Germany, but more pernicious by its subtility and perfidy, would be now raging in -Austria, which, according to human judgment, the Catholics of that country are not prepared to meet as gallantly as their brethren in Germany. But Francis Joseph has not. forgotten the Catholic traditions of his forefathers, and at this very moment the different nations of Austria seem to become aware of the fact that the safety of the Empire rests upon a firm allegiance to the policy
and faith of old Austria, and that tampering with the pernicious maxims of modern statecraft must come to an end else a speedy downfall of the realm may be the consequence Austria once more a truly Catholic empire will be herself again, and her voice will once more become weighty in the councils of the nations, true to the old adage, A. E. I. 0. I., Austria erit in orbe imperium.
[From the South Bend Daily Tribune of Wednesday, May 21.]
Charming Music.
THE DELIGHTFUL ENTERTAINMENT OF THE ST. MARV’S PUPILS LAST EVENING.
The opera house was comfortably filled last evening on the occasion of the concert given by the young lady pupils of St. Mary’s Academy, under the direction of Mrs. Clara Semmes Fitzgerald, the gifted and accomplished harp player. The object of the entertainment, which was to aid in the rebuilding of ruined Notre Dame College, should have induced a greater number of our citizens to attend, but it is a fact that South Bend is not a musically inclined place, and especially is it unappreciative as regards a concert that belongs to the classical or operatic order, no matter what the object may be. However, the audience that was present last evening should certainly be called appreciative, judging by the frequent applause and the hearty encores. The programme was an elaborate and finished one, containing vocal selections from the operas of Martha, l’Africaine, and Lucia, and instrumental ones for piano and harp from Liszt, Meyerbeer, Bochsa and others. A young lady can obtain no better musical education anywhere in the country than at St. Mary’s. Many with but ordinary talents have graduated from this institution with a knowledge and a culture in the divine art which has won for them great distinction in the musical world. The rendering of the vocal parts of the programme last evening was with a simple ease and grace of manner pleasing to the eye, and with a sweet, pure harmony entrancing to the ear. Excellent training was apparent in every movement and in every tone. Miss Devoto, who graduated from the Academy in ’74, and kindly volunteered to assist in the concert, is a native of the land of song, sunny Italy, and possesses a charming voice, highly cultured. She has an extraordinary compass, and sings the highest tone with a remarkable clearness as well as sweetness. She was honored with an enthusiastic encore for her rendering of the song the “Lost Birdling,” and responded with the “Last Rose of Summer.” Her second number, the flower song from Berignani, also received an encore, and she was obliged to repeat the last stanza of the song. The Misses Kirchner have sweet voices, which were displayed to good advantage in their selections. But-it would be impossible to speak in detail of the singing; suffice it to say, the trio, the quintette and the sextette were excellent, in harmony and expression.
Of the instrumental parts the harp duet, a fantasia on favorite melodies, was artistically rendered by the Misses Galen and Dillon, and was rapturously applauded. The performance of little Miss Geiser of Liszt’s difficult rhap-sodie No. 2, on the piano, was a surprise to all. The young lady, who cannot be more than fourteen years of age, went through the long and intricate piece without missing a note, giving to the fortissimo passages a power of tone which ' electrified the whole audience, and when she arose at the finish she was greeted with a perfect roar of applause, and came back and played with equal power and expression a
<
a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
691
difficult piece. Her playing was superb, and she is bound to make her mark as a pianist.
Mrs. Fitzgerald, who had the management of the affair, is a childhood friend of Mother Angela’s, and has been sojourning at St. Mary’s during the winter. She is devoted to the harp and is a most exquisite player, although never until last evening has she appeared in a public concert. She was richly dressed in a garnet silk, trimmed profusely with point lace, and wore several diamonds upon her fingers, and also diamond ear-drops and breast-pin. Her harp is rich iu tone and elegant in appearance. Her first number, a fantasia by Bochsa, was charmingly performed, and she was treated to a hearty encore, to which she responded by repeating a portion of the piece. Her second number next to the last on the programme was loudly applauded, but she did not respond. Mrs. Fitzgerald should also be complimented on the excellent manner in which the concert was managed. There was not a jar during the entire evening. Mrs. Fitzgerald is a sister of the late Admiral Semmes, commander of the Alabama. The following is the programme in full:
Part I.
Quintette Finale..........................From,	“ Martha,"
Misses Devoto, Kirchner, Silverthorn, Usselman and Capelie.
Instrumental Trio..............................Meyerbeer
Piano—Misses Kirchner and Spier. Harp—Miss Galen.
Romanza—“Addio, Terra Nativa,”..............'l L'Africaine,"
Miss A Kirchner, accomp’t by Miss Kirchner.
Harp Fantasia,...................................Bochsa,
Mrs. Fitzgerald.
Song—“Lost Birdling,”...........................Centemeri
Miss Devoto. Accomp’t by Miss Kirchner.
“Miihle, Liebe Miihle,”......................B.	Schumann,
Misses Gordon and Capelie, accomp’t by Miss Silverthorn.
Part II.
Terzettina.................................A. Bandegger,
Misses Gordon, Capelie and Usselman. Accompaniment by Miss Silverthorn.
Fantasia on Favorite Melodies for two Harps. 1st Harp—Miss Galen. 2d Harp—Miss Dillon.
Song “La Fioraja,”..........\................Berignani,
Miss Devoto.
Rhapsodie No. 2,.................................Liszt,
Miss Geiser.
Song—“Santa Lucia,”..............................Braga
Miss Kirchner. Piano—Miss Silverthorn. Harp—Miss Galen.
Harp Solo..................................Parish Alvers,
Mrs. Fitzgerald.
Sextette...................................From"Lucia"
• Misses L. A Kirchner, Silverthorn, Gordon, Usselman and Capelie. Accompaniment by Miss Geiser.
The concert closed at a seasonable hour, and as the ladies who had furnished the entertainment were about to depart from the hall to enter their carriages for the Academy, they were escorted to the dining-hall, where another kind of entertainment awaited them in the shape of a bountiful repast which had been prepared through the kindness of the authorities at Notre Dame. This was greatly appreciated and eagerly devoured.
Although the concert did not have the desired effect of increasing the rebuilding fund of Notre Dame in a very large degree, it furnished one of the most delightful entertainments we have had here this season, and we vote for its repetition.
!	[From the South Bend “ Sunday News.”]
The elite of our city were in attendance at the concert •	given May 20th, by the young ladies of St. Mary’s, for the
f	benefit of Notre Dame. The concert was, in every respect
r	a success, and great credit is dne to the good Sisters and
I	Mrs. C. S. Fitzgerald, for the finished manner in which
k —	the affair was conducted. After the concert a banquet
* was given for the participants, gotten up by the Very Rev. Father Oorby.
[From the South Bend Herald.]
The concert given by the young ladies of St. Mary’s, for the benefit of Notre Dame, at the Opera House, last night, was enjoyed by a good audience. The well-arranged programme was finely executed in every particular. Mrs. Fitzgerald, under whose management the concert was given, delighted the audience by her playing on the harp. Miss Devoto’s singing was very fine. She is a graduate of ’74 from the Institute. From her clear, sweet voice she deserves all the praise that can be given her. She is a native of Italy. Her voice is one of extraordinary compass. She sings the high notes with a clear, ringing voice. Misses Gordon, Capelie, Usselman, L. and A. Kirchner and Miss Silverthorn are all sweet singers and merited the applause they received. The two yotng ladies, Misses Galen and Dillon, executed well their part as harpists. We must not close this without mention of Miss Geiser, her performance on the piano being splendid. She was heartily applauded by her delighted hearers. These young ladies are all students of St. Mary’s.
[From the South Bend Daily '* Register ” of Wednesday, May 2L]
A fine audience was present at the Opera House last evening, on the occasion of the concert given by the pupils of St Mary’s Academy for the benefit of Notre Dame, and the concert was thoroughly in keeping with the audience. Perhaps the most finished portions of the entertainment were the harp playing by Mrs. Fitzgerald, Miss Devoto’s singing and Miss Geiser’s piano playing. Miss Geiser’s playing was truly brilliant, and as that young lady is still quite young, and is apparently capable of lots of hard work in the future, in addition to that which she must already have performed, it may reasonably be anticipated that she will become an instrumentalist of note. But it was a pleasure to listen to every number of the program, and all the young ladies reflected credit on themselves and the institution at which their musical powers have been and are being developed. There were several enthusiastic encores, extending the program to nearly two hours in length. After the concert those participating in it were treated to an elegant supper, spread in the dining room adjoining the audience-room of the hall, a charming little surprise gotten up for the young ladies by Very Rev. Father Corby, President of Notre Dame.	•
Books and Periodicals.
The Two Bridbs. By the Rev. Dr. O’Reilly. 12mo., pp. 41L New York: G. W. Carleton & Co.
We could wish every reader of the Scholastic no greater pleasure than to read this fascinating romance. It is just the book to take with you on some sunny day under a spreading shade-tree by the side of a cool running stream or the bank of a clear lake. It possesses almost every quality one could ask in a pleasant, elevating story. Its freshness is the first thing to charm the reader. The acene opens in the picturesque mountain regions of Western North Carolina. The people have the simplicity and purity of shepherds, with the intelligence of the nineteenth century, and the graces of Christian ladies and gentlemen. Adventure and heroism of the most exalted character are displayed, for the story opens just before the civil war, and the Arcadian life of the people is soon invaded by the ravages of pitiless warfare, brother rising against brother and neighbor against neighbor. The folly of secession, the sin of slavery, the sacredness of the Union and the Constitution, were never more eloquently portrayed, while at the same time one can perceive the honest but mistaken purpose of those who lifted their hands against the flag of their country. The religious spirit of the story, tolerant of other opinion and yet intensely Catholic, is genuinely American and genuinely Catholic. The D’Arcys are an old American Catholic family, and young Catholic ladies and gentlemen will find no better models than these wise, warm-hearted and pure-minded American Catholics. The book could be written only by a warm-hearted man of genius.
592
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, May 31, 1879.
again they were reminded of this honest debt, of their fair promises, but did not even reply; they have at all times been a drag on the prosperity of Notre Dame, and they should now have been the first to come to her help in distress. Will they even be the last? If not inclined to be generous, will they not at least be just, and come forward like men and pay their honest debts ?
The Work Goes Bravely On.
The stone foundation is already complete on the north side and on the east and west ends of the new building, besides several cross-walls, while the brick also is up on three sides to the window sills, three feet over the stone. Twenty-six. bricklayers and stonemasons are at work with their numerous attendants, and it is astonishing how the walls rise from hour to hour. Before Saturday it seems that the stone will be laid on every foundation, external and internal, and next week there will be a line of bricklayers around the whole building. One enthusiastic judge declares that if matters go on as they have been going, the walls will be'up and the roof on in six week’s time. This is perhaps an exuberant judgment, but we are persuaded from what we have already seen that this building will move up from its foundations with a rapidity that will surprise every one. The exterior walls are faced with a beautiful light-colored brick, somewhat resembling the famous Milwaukee, and will, when up, present a most elegant appearance. No paint, wash, stucco, or even pointing will be needed to beautify these walls. The brick is, besides, of first quality, and, with the doubly burned old brick used for filling, will make a wall as substantial as it will be beautiful. On Tuesday, Mr. W. J. Edbrooke, the architect, was down from Chicago, busily engaged in inspecting the work, and seeing that his plans were strictly carried out. He has charged himself with the task of having at Notre Dame the most convenient, safe, and beautiful college building in the country. With such masters as Bro. Charles and Bro. Alfred to carry out and themselves supervise his plans, there is no question of success. Very Rev. Father Corby, who built one of the finest churches in the Northwest, at Watertown, Wis., is himself in constant care of everyone and everything, and he will not only push the work with the utmost rapidity, but, with his long college experience, will see that everything is" well done, for he realizes, as we all do, that this, though a work of days, is a work for years—let us hope for centuries.
Strange, and yet True.
It is strange and yet true that among the countless letters of deep, undoubted and even substantial sympathy received here during the past month from former students of Notre Dame, there is not one from a certain class among them. What class do we mean? We did not make it, they themselves formed it; neither is it a class of recent origin, nor of local interest, for it dates back even to the first years of the University, and its members are found under our windows, almost, as well as in many States of the Union. We do not mean the dead, for they could not write to us; we do not mean the expelled, for they might feel abashed to write. We mean a class of living, would-be young gentlemen, who never paid their school-bills, either while here or years after leaving the College. Again and
Indiana State Scholarships.
[Until reading the following remarkable article in the South Bend Herald of this week we were not aware that this State had granted aid to any religious educational institution. Certainly Notre Dame is entitled to a like support to that which has already been freely given to the Colleges at Greencastle and Crawfordsville, and we trust our friends will see to it that proper application is made at the next meeting of the Legislature. It is a perfectly fair arrangement, and we have no doubt the institution will be willing to return the State loan in the form of scholarship.]
[From the South Bend “ Herald.”] J Notre Dame.
The state owns scholarships in the Methodist college at Greencastle and scholarships in the Presbyterian college at Crawfordsville, and all of the state university at Bloomington. All these scholarships are free of expense to the student, on certificate from any board of county commissioners in the state that the applicant is a citizen of the county and of good moral character. Indiana may be said to be lavish in her expenditures for the complete education of all her children who desire it. She plants her common school system in every community. To this is added the township graded schools and city high schools and then the three colleges above mentioned.
Most of our readers know the history of the state unniver-sity at Bloomington, as well as the history of the common school system, but few, perhaps, know anything about how the state came to own scholarships in the Methodist college at Greencastle and the Presbyterian college at Crawfordsville, considering that the state is neither Methodist nor Presbyterian. If our recollection serves us right, the history runs something like this: The Methodist college at Greencastle burned down and its friends appealed to the state for aid in rebuilding it. The state loaned the college some $20,000, and afterwards took its pay in scholarships. In course of human events, the Presbyterian college at Crawfordsville burned down and-its friends appealed to the state for assistance. The state loaned a similar amount of money to that college to aid in rebuilding and took its pay in scholarships. Now Notre Dame, the greatest Roman Catholic College in the north-west, lies in ruins. Why should not the state of Indiana lend this college a helping hand and take its pay in scholarships ? It cannot be urged that it is any more a sectarian institution than the Methodist college at Greencastle or the Presbyterian college at Crawfordsville. Different Christian sects are educated in all three of them—in two of them at the expense of the state. As the state knows no religion, no sectarianism, why should she not purchase scholarships enough in Notre Dame college to assist that institution in recovering a portion of the valuable property swept away by the fire ? We offer these reflections for consideration. They embrace the principle of equality and justice if nothing else.
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
593
The Museum.
The Curator of the Museum, is hard at work collecting specimens to replace those lost by the late fire. He would be much obliged if the old students and friends of Notre Dame—especially those living in mining districts—would assist him in making good the great loss just sustained. Minerals, fossils, stuffed specimens of animals, skeletons, Indian relics, shells, corals, coins, antiquities, etc., will be most gratefully received and labelled with the name of the donor. Many have such specimens and antiquities that they care little about; or if they have them not, they can easily procure them. Where they are now they are of no use, whilst if they were here they would be invaluable in teaching. The scientific graduates and students especially should be proud to assist in the work.
A Cat Among the Minims.
Our Minims are not only good little fellows, healthy little fellows, and happy little fellows, but they are also most intelligent little fellows, quick and true thinkers, as appears from an incident lately witnessed by a friend of ours who takes great interest in these young students and who was present at one of the examinations which Very Rev. Father General is accustomed to make of his favorites. On this occasion many searching questions were put to try both the memory and the judgment of our Minims, when finally a poser was given in arithmetic, which it was thought would be too much for them. “ There was a cat,” began the kindly but humorous questioner, “ 19 inches in length, 4 inches in average diameter; feet, each 5 inches long and 1 inch diameter ; tail, 6 inches long, inch diameter, and we will allow 40 square inches for head and ears. Now,” continued the Very Rev. examiner, smiling at the earnest attention every silent Minim, slate and pencil in hand, was giving to the problem, “now, supposing that on every square inch of the cat’s body there were 1,756 hairs, how many hairs were there on the cat altogether ? ” One sigh of relief and astonishment escaped from every Minim, and then there was such a rattling of pencils as was never heard outside the slate quarries where the pencils were made. Formidable arrays of figures soon covered each Minim’s slate. Some were lost in mazes and labyrinths of innumerable numbers, and yielded in despair to their destiny. It was like the late walking-match of the Minims. First one fell out, then another, and another, until finally but a few brave little fellows tugged away in silence and alone. At length the features of one of them lit up with exultation, and he cried out, as if no one were present, “ I have it! I have it!— six-hundred and fourteen thousand six hundred hairs!” “Amedius Coghlin has it! Coghlin has it!” said every Minim, glad as if he had done it himself. Soon after George Rhodius,and then Joseph Courtney came forward with an almost identical result. It may readily be imagined that Master Coghlin blushed with pleasure as he received these dem. onstrations, and still more as he received the approving words of Very Rev. Father General. It was but a passing incident, but it showed even better than a more set^and formal examination the quick wit and earnest study of our bright boys, and we were affected more than a little to see how devoted in all his cares Very Rev. Father-General was to the welfare of those bright youths.
Observer.
Local Items.
—S. A. Arentz, of ’61, is doing a good grocery business in Fort Wayne.
—Chas. Muhler, of ’60, is a successful hardware merchant in Fort Wayne, Ind.
—Max Nirdlinger, of ’61, is engaged in the dry-goods business in Fort Wayne, and doing well.
—Leopold Wolf (Commercial,) of’77, is doing a good business in Fort Wayne. His brother Max, of’79, is assisting his father.
—An earnest movement is making in New York and Brooklyn to relieve Archbishop Purcell from his financial difficulties.
—Charles Walter, of’75, is studying law in Fort Wayne, and holds a prominent position among the rising aspirants to legal fame.
—Mr. and Mrs. Dr. Ryan, with the Misses Linnie an Emma Ryan and Mr. Fred Ryan, of Valparaiso, were among the visitors this week.
—John Trentman of ’62 is now city clerk of Fort Wayne, Ind., and Aug. E. Trentman, of ’57, is one of the most successful business men in the city.
—On Wednesday we had a pleasant call from our old friend Hon. W. C. McMichael. Mac is on a “furlough” from the Capital, and is in excellent spirits.
—Now is the time for the students and their friends to send in books to re-establish the Lemonnier Library. . AU donations should be addressed to Prof. J. F. Edwards.
—J. A. Arentz (Commercial), of ’71, is chief book-keeper in the Freight office of the Pittsburg & Fort Wayne Railroad. He has an immense business to attend to, but he does it well.
—F. B. Phillips, of ’79, is stopping with his mother in Fort Wayne. He says he does not know what to do with z himself since the fire, and is counting the days until class resumes in September.
—The first donation to the hew Museum was made by Mr. Simon S. Zahm, of Huntington, Ind. The first donation to the Cabinet of Curiosities was received from Master Roger Williams, of ’79.
—W. P. Breen, of the class of ’77, has our thanks for favors done our agent in Fort Wayne. Mr. Breen is now engaged in the study of law, and is one of the most promising young men of that city.
—The regular sound of the Minims’ beU, and their staid march to and from their studies in Science Hall, would lead one to suppose that they do not recognize the fact of any calamity at Notre Dame.
—Mr. B. L. Euans, B. S., of ’76, whom a traveller from Notre Dame met in Detroit, on the 27th ult., is in excellent health and spirits. Like all the old students, he expresses much sympathy for our recent loss.
—We were much pleased to receive the first number of the revived Sunday News of South Bend, conducted by Turner Junior. The city needs such a paper, and should sustain it. The Scholastic will exchange with pleasure.
—We have received Vol. 1, No. 1, New Series, of the La Crosse Democrat, now after eleven years’ absence returned to its first love, La Crosse, Wisconsin. It is without question the spiciest sheet that has come to our table.
—In the article entitled “It is Holy Ground,” in last week’s Scholastic, the names of the venerable missionaries Father Deseille and Father Petit were accidentally transposed. Father Deseille died at Notre Dame, and Father Petit beyond the Mississippi. The facts as given, with the exception of this change of names, are correct
—The Month of May, 1879, must always lie remembered as the month of foundation for the new College. The cor-' ner stone was blessed, the plans were drawn and perfected, the stone and brick walls begun, all most auspiciously in. this blessed month. May the Queen of May watch over, and her Blessed Son “ perfect and strengthen the work.”
—We learn from a friend who has lately visited Detroit > that Dr. C. J. Lundy, of whom there are so many pleasing'' memories at Notre Dame, is in' good health and prosper-
594
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing in his profession. He is married to an estimable lady and enjoys a good practice, and what more could heart wish? We are happy to know that his recollections of Notre Dame are so kindly.
—We believe that the Rev. Director of the Music Department at one time expressed his determination to be the champion hod-carrier in this summer’s work. We therefore grieve for his blasted aspirations as we assure him that one of our colored brethren has displayed so much science in this vocation that no competitor has any show against him. For peace sake yield to your fate like a man.
—A friend who lately visited New Haven gives a good report of our old students there. W. F. Snelker, of ’73, is proprietor of a large stave-factory. H. H. Snelker, of ’68, is in the dry-goods business. J. A. Bueler, E. B. Whittaker, J no. Jos. Lee, and F. Schlink, of the same place, are also doing well. They all speak of coming to the dedication of the new College next September. Come on, boys. The more the merrier.
—Our students of ’79 and ’80 will be pleased to learn that Washington Hall is to be used hereafter for a grand gymnasium—one story for the Juniors, the other for the Seniors. It will be fitted up with all modern gymnastic appliances. What with this and the large recreation halls that are soon to be erected, and the extensive campus assigned for each department, no one can complain that he has no place to take exercise.
—“ The venerable Father Gillen, of Notre Dame, Indiana, , is here for a few days on a matter of business with a gov-i ernmental department and is stopping at St. Cecilia’s V Academy on Capitol Hill. He has many friends in and about the District, whose acquaintance he made while Chaplain of the 170th N. Y. Volunteers (the Irish Legion), in the Army of the Potomac, during the late war.”— Washington Correspondence Catholic Mirror.
—One who had occasion to visit Detroit this week had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Loranger, of ’70 and ’71, and his estimable wife, a recent convert to the Catholic Church. Mr. Loranger resides at Monroe, Mich., and is in the drygoods business (Loranger & Vanderheyden). He is in excellent health, and doing well, as all his old friends, for whom he made affectionate inquiries, will be glad to hear. Mr. Loranger intends to visit Notre Dame soon, whose reverse he deeply deplores.
—Father Veniard, of South Bend, who accidentally swallowed his false teeth a few weeks ago, and who in consequence was for some time in danger of death, has, we are happy to say, most miracuously escaped the daily peril in which he has since lived, by throwing his teeth from his stomach again. His swallowing his teeth in safety was considered almost without parallel in medical history, but this recovery by throwing them up again, is, we venture to say, the first case of the kind ever known.
—The venerable Charles O’Hara, of Batavia, Ill., but for some time a resident of Notre Dame, contributes $100 towards the rebuilding of the University. Mr. O’Hara though of small stature has a great Catholic heart, of which this generous subscription would be a proof if any were needed. We saw him on the day of the fire, and no one was more stricken with grief for the great destruction than himself. From such noble spirits as his it is that the great charities of America have been built up. May he live many years to see the new Notre Dame flourish.
—On Monday, May 26, when the students were on their way to the refectory, their suppressed feelings broke forth tumultuously as they passed the corner of the new building. The first bricks had just been laid by the masons, and the boys caught sight of the new brick wall as they marched by and shouted out for dear life, to the utter astonishment of the sober workmen. It was such a surprise as strangers often received in the refectory when recrea-;	tion was given at dinner, and’ the youths of the Univer-
i	sity shouted for joy. The boy’s heart is in the right place.
—For the information of the students of ’79 and of such '	of our many friends throughout the country as have any
j	misgivings about the possibility of completing the new
I	/ College in time, we can state definitely that Very Rev.
i J President Corby is determined to have all the buildings !	ready for the reception of students by Sept. 1st, even if it
।	is necessary to work at night by the electric or calcium
I
E
light. Father Corby has had great experience in building, and we can confidently assure our friends that he is fully equal to the large task before him. He has made all the preparations necessary to “ rush ” things as they have never been rushed before at Notre Dame.
Letters, etc.
Natchitoches Parish, Campte, La., May 21,1879.
Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.	4
Rev. and Dear Sir:—Since leaving the precincts of dear old Notre Dame I have dwelt here in the sunny clime of Louisiana, the land of my birth. Far as I am from % Notre Dame, yet it is not too far to hear of her dreadful misfortune, which like the lightning flash came in the expressive form, “ Our old Alma Mater is no more.” To express my emotion when reading the sad intelligence is beyond my power. I cannot realize it! lit seems to me impossible. But, alas! ’tis too true. How often while pursuing the path of life have I thought of you all, and in grateful recollection of the many happy days spent there, and the innumerable kind acts received from the kind members of my cherished old Alma Mater. Oh! would that it were in my power to render you, especially in this dark hour, some testimony of my appreciation for the goodness I have experienced there. But what can I do?
I am powerless, save the offering of my earnest sympathy [Will not our good friend and the other students of his parish organize a movement towards aiding their Alma Mater in a substantial manner?—Ed. Scholastic.] iYet I feel consoled with the hope that at no. late date, through the realization of better times, I shall be counted as a contributor to the erection of another Alma Mater. Courage, fortitude and perseverance will overcome all obstacles, and I am satisfied that, with these arms, ere long you will be pursuing the same educational course that has so glowingly marked your past. Notre Dame has become well known "	,-m
in Natchitoches parish through those of her students who reside here; they consider her their second home, and will consequently strive to give her a helping hand in this gloomy hour of adversity.
With many kind wishes, and tender regards to you all, I am, with much esteem, your obd’t serv’t.
John B. Prudhomme (of ’77).
The following most touching letter was written by the Vice-President of the College of Our Lady of the Holy Cross, in Paris, and signed by all the members of the Congregation in the house, nineteen in number:
N. D. de Ste. Croix, Neuilly, Paris, Sunday, May 11,1879.
Very Rev. Father:—We are all in consternation at the sad news just received. Can it be possible! Is it true that Notre Dame, that magnificent University you have founded at the cost of so many sacrifices—at the cost, we may say, of your life’s labor, has been in a few hours consumed by fire? What an appalling calamity! It has made us all inconsolable, not so much on account of the loss of an edifice of which we were so justly proud, or of the material loss which we sustain in this great trial, as in considera-tion of your unspeakable sorrow in presence of such a dis-	i
aster. This is what crushes our souls. We can readily	j
imagine how the ruin of an establishment but yesterday so	/
flourishing immerses your soul in sorrow.
Oh! Very Rev. Father, would that we could be there	\
with you to testify our filial affection, not in words, but in	'
deeds, to lighten the burden so heavily pressing upon your heart! How gladly we would help with our own hands your beautiful University! Unfortunately this is out of our power: what we can do is to pray; this we do most' earnestly. The good God, who has sent you this heavy cross, will give you not only the grace to bear it, but also the means to repair all, and thus you will have the merit of again creating a holy work so important for education and religion in the New World.
We know that hope is eminently a Christian virtue, that there is in the soul of the priest and of the religious a supernatural strength which nothing can exhaust. This is	l
what reassures us. How often have not the saints seen their	A
works compromised, or even partially destroyed, by the invidious passion of the wicked, or by the countless human
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOfLASTlC
395
accidents permitted by Divine Providence; but the storm once passed, they recommenced their work with tranquillity and confidence. You are, Very Rev. Father, one of that race of true Christian champions; your entire life has been spent in struggling for our Christian education; your ambition is to work solely for God, hence our confidence that courage will never fail you.
This terrible disaster, which from a human point of view seems so crushing, will only serve, in our convictions of divine Faith, to instil in our veins a new life, a new energy, • binding us all to each other more strongly than ever, and turning our common aspirations more exclusively to Heaven. Most assuredly, for many years you have devoted yourself to our common good; we have ever found you were our Father, but never before .have we felt it so powerfully as in these days of trial. Yes, you are our Father; yes, also, we are your children. Yes indeed, we are all but one family; and our hearts, with your own, feel the same stroke of the same calamity.
Courage, courage, most dear and venerated Father! If suffer we must, let us suffer together, and that for God’s honor. Again courage. There is no sacrifice here below without a proportionate reward. The trial has been sudden, and truly overwhelming; the reward cannot be long delayed. It will be great, and will perhaps exceed all our expectations. May the holy Name of God be forever blessed!
We are, Very Rev. Father, with the most profound respect, your devoted sons, more affectionate than ever.
[This is the noblest letter of them all. One of our present year’s graduates has given the first fruits of his college culture and of his promising young life to his Alma Mater. May God bless the career so nobly begun! It is a lesson to the sons of Notre Dame.]
Tolono, III., May 29,1879.
Very Rev. W. Corby:	■
Dear Father:—Enclosed find draft for fifty dollars, ’ the proceeds of my first lecture for the benefit of the new University. Permit me to state that although the business of the world shall henceforth engage my attention, fond memory will ever hover round the scenes of my College Home. I have learned to love the venerable founder and the cultured faculty of my noble Alma Mater, and kind Providence has permitted that my first public effort should be in her cause. Think not that my gratitude to Notre Dame is exhausted by the present assistance /1 render her; her interests will be the employment of my * leisure hours, and I hope to revisit you in September with as many students as my endeavors can procure. Let all the students of ’79 be faithful to her, whose aims but culminated in their improvement and happiness, and may some future day behold us in sweet reunion within her resurrected halls.	•
. With kindest regards to the faculty, I remain your faithful child in J. M. L,	Jas. J. Quinn.
Clyman, Dodge Co., Wis., May 20,1879.
Dear Father Corby, C. S. C.:—One of my parishioners who desired to do something for the love of God has - been advised by me to remember Notre Dame in her present need, and has gladly consented. Enclosed please find the mite, precious as that of the widow, and remember the giver in your prayers. I am not ready just yet to lend my own aid, but think I shall be good for an X or two before long. I am really sorry for Notre Dame, the pride of the Church in the West. With very best wishes for your afflicted Community,
I am very truly yours,	M. J. Ward.
Pittsburg, May 16,1879.
Very Rev. Father Corby, Notre Dame, Ind.:—A telegram from my son announced to me the sad calamity which befell Notre Dame. The people of this community in general feel the loss of such an institution, which has been of great benefit to everyone, and to Catholics in particular. I sincerely hope that you will rise speedily from your sad loss, and with tenfold more greatness.
Yours sincerely,	T. C. Fogarty.
Lafayette, Ind., May 8,1879.
Very Rev. Wm. Corby, C. S. C., Notre Dame Ind.
Very Rev. and Dear Sir:—You would confer a favor
on me by letting me know, as soon as possible, the name and address of the architect and builder who has the contract for rebuilding Notre Dame. I, in common with all your old students in this city, was exceedingly sorry to hear of the great misfortune which fell on our old Alma Mater, and I have no doubt but when the proper time comes you will find something substantial in their sympathy. With best wish'es for your future success and prosperity, I am, as ever,
Yours most respectfully, John F. McHugh.
Greenwood, III., May 19,1879.
Very Rev. Wm. Corby, C. 8. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Very Rev. and Dear Father:—Enclosed please find draft for amount, small though it be, which I contribute towards raising Notre Dame from its ashes. It is all I can offer at this writing: am sorry I cannot do more, as I should be only too glad to aid you in this your time of greatest need, did circumstances allow me. I intend to see my friends and endeavor to arouse them to come forward and assist as far as they are able. I am working hard to have some students ready for September.
Please give my regards to Rev. Father Walsh. Hoping you are enjoying the best of health, and wishing you all success, I remain
Your grateful student,	M. J. McCue.
The following touching letter is from Very Rev. Father Champeau, the learned and good Superior of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in Paris. It shows, as do all the letters received from there, how devotedly attached the members of the Order in France are to Very Rev. Father General, and how deeply they sympathize with him in his great trial:
Cong, of the Holy Cross, Mother-House, Paris, May 8,1879.
Mother Mary of the Ascension:
My Good Mother:—What dreadful news your letter brought us! How did the Very Rev. Father-General bear such a stroke? Alas! we were very far from expecting to hear of such a calamity. We were already preparing to give the Very Rev. Father a splendid reception, to greet his arrival amongst us with music and rejoicings; and behold all is changed! Thus the good God tries His most faithful servants. In presence of such an unexpected affliction, at sight of the beautiful University which he founded amidst difficulties and toil, and for whose success all his labors for nearly forty years have been directed, now reduced to ashes, I greatly fear the effect on Very Rev. Father’s health, already so shattered. I am also concerned about Very Rev. F. Granger, who I know is not very strong. Try to console them, and tell them how deeply we sympathize with them in their hour of trial. Owing to the trembling of my hand caused by the shock of such terrible news, I am unable to write at length; but you will have the goodness to convey my deep sentiments of regret to the Very Rev. Father, and tell him that our prayers shall not be wanting to implore God to assist him in rebuilding, and making Notre Dame more beautiful than it was before the fire. We translated the journal which you sent us, in order to communicate the news to our confreres and friends. But we did not find all the-details which we desired, for in such a deplorable catastrophe every particular is of interest to us. Will you, then, send us successively all the articles which have been, or may be, published on the subject; and above all, let us know regularly how Very Rev. Father’s General’s health is.
Receive, my good Mother, the expression of my devoted and affectionate sentiments.
L. Champeau, C. 8. C.
Canton, Miss., May 19,1879.
Dear Father Corby:—Enclosed you will find five dollars, which I send as a small donation to help to rebuild your fine Institution which was burned some time since. I need not tell you how distressed I was at the sad intelligence, not only on account of the great loss to your Community, but also from a selfish motive. My son, Roger Semmes, who has only been with you for a short period, has made such rapid progress that I am convinced of the fact that the United States has indeed met with a
§96
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
severe loss in the burning of your fine Institution, so I send you my little mite.
I am very anxious for my son to return to Notre Dame •. again when the September term opens. He is at present r at Watertown, Wis., and we would prefer him to be at / Notre Dame, so he can sometimes see his sister, who is at St/Mary’s Academy.
Hoping your College will be ready for the September term, I am yours very respectfully,
Mrs. A. T. Semmes.
Charlestown, Mass., May 12,1879.
Very Bev. and Dear Father Granger:—It is with feelings of regret and sorrow that I now seat myself to pen {rou a few lines. God knows how much it affected me to earn of the terrible disaster which befell my beloved Alma Hater. Indeed nothing could have given me greater pain than to learn that Notre Dame University was in affliction, for I am warmly attached to the institution, and I heartly sympathize with you all in this time of trial.
It fairly stunned me when I first heard it, and I could not feel equal to the task of writing you a line of condolence since the great disaster.
I trust that our Blessed Lady will lighten this great burden for you all, and that Notre Dame will arise from its ashes in greater splendor than before.
I can do nothing else than show my sympathy at present, as I am but a young student, but I pray to God that the time may come when, with His assistance, I can offer you something more substantial than sympathy.
I send my affectionate regards to our beloved and venerable Father Sorin, to President Corby and the Professors, and with my sincerest regards to yourself, I am, dear Rev. Father,
Your obedient child, Francis E. Carroll.
P. S. Enclosed you will please find a post-office order for sixteen dollars, from my mother, grandmother and a friend—mother, $5; grandmother, $10; Ellen Quill, $1. This will help a little; would that we could send a thousand!
Cairo, III., May 19,1879.
Very Rev. Father Corby:
f Dear Sir ;—It is with pleasure that I enclose $50 to aid ■J you in rebuilding Notre Dame. I hope your friends will assist you liberally, and that you may speedily complete the work in good style. •
I am very respectfully, etc.,
J. J. Gordon, M. D.
’	Belen, New Mexico, May 7,1879.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
My Dear Sir : The day that Notre Dame was burned you announced the news to me by telegram. My son-inlaw, Mr. V. M. Baca, wished at first to express our sentiments by letter, but, knowing that you had not time in the first days after the misfortune to pay attention to letters of sympathy, he resolved not to send it and we have delayed writing you until now. Yesterday I received the • announcement in which you give notice of what you propose to do, and to-day I enclose $100 to help to build the new edifice, that, with the favor of God, I hope to see one day. I have written to Mr. Vincent for him to bring home my child in vacation; and if he cannot go, Mrs. Chaves will go. I remain with respect,
Yours, etc.,	Felipe Chaves.
San Francisco, May 19,1879.
Editor Scholastic:—The Avalon offers, also, its expression of sympathy for the loss you, and the country at large, sustain in the destruction by fire of the noble University of Notre Dame.
From the distant shores of the Pacific we join in the universal manifestation of regret, re-echoing the wishes of its admirers throughout the continent; that it may soon rise from its ashes, resplendent in its glory and grandeur is the wish of	“The Avalon.”
Burlington, Iowa, May 22,1879.
Very Rev. and Dear Father Corby:—From day to day I have been intending to write you; but surrounded by so many friends of Notre Dame that were so much more capable of an expression of feelings than myself, though I dare to say not one more sincere in regrets for the- great
calamity that befell dear old Notre Dame, endeared to us in so many different ways, by the many blessings we have received, spiritual and temporal, I have delayed until now. Indeed it was to us a “ sad evening,” to use the expression of dear Father-General, but in the morning the thought presented .itself as to what I could do, in my little, humble way, to be instrumental in helping build one little spot of the new Notre Dame—and in my feeble efforts, with my dear protector St. Joseph to accompany me, I took my paper with a full determination to do what I could, little or much.........
Now I will not reiterate what I have already said, but let me assure you that I am ready at any time to act in any way to the best of my ability for the work that is now begun.
With the kind wishes of our entire family, I am, as ever, with most sincere respect,	Mary S. Foote.
BoU of Honor.
junior department.
K. Scanlan, M. Foote, J. Browne, J. Le Bourgois, P. Perley, J. Gibbons, G. Foster, T. Devitt, P. Crowley.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. J. Gordon, W. Rea, G. J. Rhodius, W. 8. Coghlin,-A Hierb, J. 8. McGrath, T. McGrath, P. 8. Fitzgerald, J. S. Courtney, J. M. Courtney, ,C. M. Crowe, H. C. Sn’ee, G. Tourtillotte, J. A Crowe, E. A. Howard, H. Bachmann, F. Mattes, N. P. Nelson, C. Perry, C. M. Long, F. K. Parsons, H. A. Kitz, A Chirhart, J. Chaves, L. J. Young, C. Young, W. V. O’Mally, I. C. Williams.
Class Honors.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A M. Coghlin, N. P. Nelson, W. 8. Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius, W. Rea, C. Perry, G. Tourtillotte, J. 8. Courtney, J. M. Courtney, H. C. 8nee, C. M. Long, H. Bachmann, C. J. Welty, F. K. Parsons, ' H. A Kitz, G. Woodson, J. J. Gordon, T. McGrath, J. 8. McGrath, A Chirhart, E. A Howard, J. Chaves, L. J. Young, I. C .Williams.
»■

—Last week the report from the Conservatory of Music was not sent us in time for publication.
—The pupils and ladies who took part in the concert for the benfit of Notre Dame highly appreciate the thoughtful kindness of Very Rev. Father Corby in providing them such an elegant supper after the concert. They also return thanks to Mrs. Shetland for the kind and devoted manner in which she assisted in furnishing the many delicacies and providing for the comfort of the party.
—The art pupils take this means of expressing their gratitude to Dr. J. M. Toner, of Washington, D. C., for his generosity in presenting, in addition to the elegant gold medal for the best artist in the private class, a beautiful silver medal to be competed for in the General Class. These two medals are much admired, and excite a lively emulation among the young artists at St. Mary’s.
—On Saturday, the 24th, the Seniors, Juniors and Minims started off at 7 a. m., to St. Joseph’s Farm for a picnic. Every feature of the excursion was delightful, and the whole affair was pronounced “splendid.” The pupils tender their sincere thanks for the hospitable kindness shown them at St. Joseph’s. The whole party returned at halfpast 7 p. m., refreshed and recreated by the delightful ride.
—Visitors during the week: Mr. E. Thomas, Valparaiso, Ind.; Mrs. A Banks, Cassopolis, Mich.; Mr. C. G. Loeber, Utah; Mr. G. McKerlie, Mrs. F. Crayon, Sturgis, Mich.; Mrs. Lyons, Bertrand; Mrs. Chirhart, Notre Dame, Ind.; Mr. I. Landon, Plymouth, Ind.; Mrs. B. Fox, South Bend, Ind.; Mr I. Hupp, Mrs. H. Mark, Plymouth, Ind.; Mr. H. Purdy, Burlington, Iowa; Mrs. M. Shetland, Mrs. Gallagher, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. M. Mullin, Watertown,
1
■4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	597
Wis.; N. W. Atkins, J. J. McGrath, Mrs. Leydon, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. E. F. Wells, Denver, Colorado; Mr. P. Gibbons, Mr. O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah • Moran.
1st Senior Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Clara Silverthorn, Sarah Hambleton, Annie Maloney, Eleanor Keenan, Zod Papin, Ellen McGrath, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Woodin, Mary Birch.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Philomena Wolford, Angela Ewing, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Sullivan, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cavenor, Mary Brown, Annie Ryan, Harriet Buck, Catharine Danaher, Adella Gordon, Mary Plattenburg, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Catharine Ward, Grace Glasser.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Pauline Hills, Alicia Donelan, Henrietta Rosing, Catharine Hoadley, Angela Dillon, Annie McGrath, Anna Cortright, Lucie Chilton, Catharine Claffey, Agnes Joyce, Adella Geiser, Ellena Thomas, Martha Wagoner, Louisa Neu, Mary Usselmann, Josephine Mitchell, Mary Mulligan.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Kathleen Wells, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Mary Feehan, Linda Fox, Julia Barnes, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelie, Mary English, Della McKerlie.
2d Preparatory Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Lillie Lancaster, Johanna Baroux, Margaret Cleghorn, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Orr, Catharine Campbell.
2d Drv.—Misses Bridget Kelly, Mabel D. Hamilton, Ida Torrents, Ellen Kinzie, Sarah Purdy, Annie Loescher.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Sabina Semmes, Hattie Arlington, Maud Casey, Julia Wells, Matilda Kildaire, Celestine Lemon- tey.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Ada Clarke, Elise Lavoie, Jessie Pam-pel, Minnie Fisk, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin.	.
2d Jr. Class—Misses Jane McGrath, Manuelita Chaves. Latin Class—Miss Hills.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Clara Silverthorn, Annie McGrath.
2d Drv.—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Elise Lavoie, Celestine Le-montey, 100; Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas.
. 2d Class—Miss lorantha Semmes, 100; Misses Zod Papin, Grace Glasser, Ella Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Sabina Semmes, Josephine Mitchell, Ellen Hackett.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Usselman, Caroline Gall, Annie Loescher.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Martha Pampel, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Ina Capelie, Minna Loeber, Catharine Claffey, Catharine Hackett, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Alice Donelan, Martha Pampel, Catharine Hoadley, Catharine Ward, Mary Fitzgerald, Agnes Joyce, Edith Botsford, Maud Casey, Mabel Hamilton, Matilda Kildaire.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Catharine Hoadley.
2d Div.—Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney, Mary Taggart.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Emma Shaw, Kathleen Wells, lorantha Semmes, Catharine Martin.
2d Div.—Misses Ann Leydon, Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, Ellen Hackett.
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrent, Josephine Mitchell, Della McKerlie, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Paulina Hills, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Kildaire, Catharine Claffey.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Bridget Kelly, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Drv.—Misses Agnes MeKinnis, Catharine Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton,
Annie Ryan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinszie, Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes, Lilly Lancaster, Mary Tam.
7th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett	.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves, Angela Watson.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Misses Celestine Lemontey, Annie Loescher, Harriet Arlington.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, lorantha Semmes, Mary Brown, Mary Campbel], Alice Farrell, Annie McGrath.
Organ—Miss A. Hermann.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Adelaide Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Emma Shaw. Zod Papin,Mary Sullivan, Mary Birch, Angela Ewing, Harriet Buck.
5th Class—Misses Sarah Purdy, Mary English, Annie Jones, Mary Mulligan, Della McKerlie, lorantha Semmes, Mary Plattenburg, Mary Hake, Ina Capelle, Ella Cavanagh, Katie Martin, Laura French, Martha Wagoner, Edith Botsford, A. Loescher.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
3d Class—Misses Mary Sullivan, Mary Taggart, lorantha Semmes, Julia Butts, Mary English, Catharine Campbell, Sophie Papin, Sarah Purdy, Angela Ewing, Minna Loeber, Maud Casey, Ellen Mulligan.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Marie Plattenburg, Teresa Killelea, Marie Dallas, Anna Cortright, Mary Campbell, Laura French, Elizabeth Schwass, Ellena Thomas.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Emma Lange, Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Harriet Buck, Sarah Hambleton, Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
3d Class—Miss Hope Russell.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Laura French, Annie McGrath, Catharine Claffey, Julia Wells, Catharine Campbell, Agnes MeKinnis, Linda Fox, Margaret Cleghorn, Charlotte, Van Namee, Maud Casey, Mary Lyons, Annie Orr, Johanna Baroux, Sophie Papin, Mary Chirhart, Jessie Pampel, Elise Dallas, Ella Mulligan, Mary Garrity, Ada Clarke, Matilda Kildaire, Lillie Lancaster, Teresa Haney, Manuelita Chaves, Elizabeth Consadine, Genevieve McGrath, Elise Papin, Blanche Garrity, Mary Feehan, Mary Paquette, Annie Leydon, Angela Watson, Minnie Cox, Celestine Lemontey.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthorn, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Birch, Teresa Killelea, ZotS Papin, Mary Casey, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Emma Shaw, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Annie Cavenor, Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary Usselman, Adella Geiser, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright. Ellena Thomas, Agnes Joyce, Josephine Mitchell. Martha Wagoner, Pauline' Hills, Catharine Hoadley, Julia Barnes, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelle, Kathleen Wells, Mary Fitzgerald, Caroline Gall, Della McKerlie, Ollie Williams, Catharine Martin, Margaret Piersol, Mary Taggart, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Mary Hake, Mabel Hamilton, Bridget Kelly, Edith Botsford, Annie Loescher, Effie Pearson, par excellence. Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Ellen McGrath, Emma Lange, Adella Gordon, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Sullivan, lorantha Semmes, Lucie Chil--ton, Henrietta Rosing, Angela Dillon, Annie Jones, Louisa Neu, Mary Mullen, Mary English, Martha Pampel, Mary Tam, Ida Torrents, Ellen Kinzie, Sarah Purdy.	*
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	-
Misses Annie McGrath, Catharine Claffey, Marie Dallas, Agnes MeKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Orr, Lillie Lancaster, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Marie McN. Garrity, Sophie Papin, Sabina Semmes, Angela Watson, Hattie Arlington, Elise Lavoie, Mary Chirhart, Mary Paquette, Elizabeth Consadine, Isabella Scott, Manuelita Chaves, par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Ellen Mulligan, Mary Feehan, Linda Fox, Margaret Cleghorn, Catharine Campbell, Ellen Hackett, Annie
598
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Leydon, Mary Cox, Ellen Lloyd, Matilda Kildaire, Celestine Lemontey, Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel, Minnie Fisk, Elise Papin, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Jane McGrath, Martha Zimmerman, Mary Fitzgerald.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TAJBIZE.
NOV. 10,1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side.) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3. Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,....	.. Leave	11.45 p.m.	9.00 a.m.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,....		12.53 a.m.	10.12 “	2.55 “	7.45 “
Alliance,			3.10 “	12.50 p.m.	535 “	11.00 “
Orrville,			4.50 “	2.26 “	7.13 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,....		7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline		.Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestlin		..Leave	7.50 A.M.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	* • • * • « e « •
Forest			9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,			10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 am.	
Ft. Wayne,...		1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,....		3.50 “	2.46 am.	4.55 “	• « • • • • • • •
Chicago,		.Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7 58 “	
	GOING EAST				
		No. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No. 8,
		Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Atlan.Ex.	Mail.
Chicago		..Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,....		2.46 AM.	11.48 “	8.55	
Ft. Wayne,...		6.55 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
Lima,			8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A.$	
Forest,			10.10 “	5.27 “	2-33 „ •	
Crestline,....	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “		
Crestline,		..Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	415 a-m.	6.05 am.
Mansfield,....		12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,			2.26 “	938 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.00 “	1L15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
R ochester,...		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 P.M'
Pittsburgh,...	.Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m.	3.30 “
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m;
Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.	.
12 16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 112 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo
240 a.m: Cleveland, 705 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.___
GOING WEST.
2 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago
6 a.m.	'
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4= 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a m, Ac ommodation Arrives at Laporte 905 a.rr; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m. Way Freight.	•
F. C. Raff, Ticket A gt.. South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt. Cleveland. •
J. H. PARSONS, Sup't West Division., < hic»go.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 1,1879.
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.49 a m. 12 55 “ 12.28 “ 12 07 “ 11.27 p m. 10 31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.‘2 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3 20 p m. 2 3U “ 2 03 “ 1.41 “ 1.07 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10 47 •• 10 26 “ 9.56 ‘ 913 “ 8.30 “ 7.25	Arrive	Leave -	- Michigan City, - -- - - - La Porte, - - • -	- - Stiillweli, - - - -	- - - Walkerton, - - -- - - Plymouth, - - - -	- - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - - -	- -	- Pern, - - - - - - Bnnker Hill, - - - -	- Kokomo Junction, - -- - - - Tipton, • - - -	- - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - - - - Cincinnati, - - - - - - Louisville, - - -- - - Saint Louis, - -	9 35 a.m. 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11 47 “ 12.40 p.m. 1.17 “ 2.00 “ 2.22 1‘ 3.00 “ 3 33 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a m.	8.05p.m 8.55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 12.12 a.m 12.40 “ 1.01 “ 1.35 “ 2.16 “ 3.02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m
PERU & INDIANOPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 am.- - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9 35 a. m. “	“ 9.00 “	- . -	“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	“	11.10 “	- - -	“	“ 2.55 a.m.
Trams Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Puluian Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. R. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civ 1 ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Strt, Elkhart, Indiana a Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weeklv Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, ox 70.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR GO A (TRES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Oar until a Late Breakfast Hour.
HHTBirths §1.25- Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance-
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H Rockwell,
Gen’l Manger, ludianap ,11s.	G-n’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison stree bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and Denver Express via. Jack-
sonville, Ill., and Louisana, Mo....3	40	pm	12 30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line 8 00 pm	9 00 am
Sringfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................7	30	am	9 00	pm
Peoria Day Express....................3	40	pm	9 00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am	9 00 pm
Chicago and Paduch Railroad Express...8 00 pm	9 00 am
Streator, Wenona,Lacon and Washington Ex3 40 pm	12 30 pm
J oliet Accommodation.................9	20	am	5 00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen.Manager. J. Charlton,Gen. Pass. Agt.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	599
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A- CATHOLIC CTOXTB-TST^.X,
to the 1 onor of the llessed Sirgin.
(20 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LATE HOLY FATHER, PIUS IX, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO XH, And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Some of the best Catholic writers at home and abroad contributors to the pages of the Ave Maria, among whom may be mentioned Rev. Fathers Lambing and Adams, and others of the Rev. and Rt. Rev. Clergy; Henri Lasserre, Lady Georgiana Fullerton, Aubrey de Vere, the Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars,” Kathleen O’Meara (“Grace Ramsay”), John O’Kane Murray, Maurice F. Egan, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Eliza Allen Starr, the Misses Howe, “Marie,’ ’the Author of “Ty-borne,” and others.	.
- telr/lys :
One Year (postage free).......................$ 2 50
Two Years........................................... 4	50
Six Months...................................... 1	30
Five Years......................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and upward, at the rate of §2 each, with 1 free Copy to the one getting up the Club), §20.
Yearly Postage to Europe, 4s. 6d., or $1.04'per copy. Single Subscription and postage to Europe. 12 shillings per annum.
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
pgjF* In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.	'
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. 0.
- Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M.
Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.	.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and
Clssical Departments, 14; Modem Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 3; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railway, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Ils
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 11, 1877.
	•MaH	♦Day Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - -Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a. m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo - -“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “
♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	+Night Express.
4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ •Jackson Express. 5 40 a. m 8 40 “ 4 45 p. m 4 30 a. m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m. 3 35 “	19 00 pm 115 “ 12 35 am 217 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
	t Pacific Express	tEvening Express.
	9 50 p.m. 1245 a.m. 2 53 “ 424 “ 5 47 « 8 00 “	6 20 p m 940 “ 1235 a m 238 “ 415 “ 6 45 “
Niles and. South. Bend Division.
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 415 pan.
“ N. Dame—740 “	448 “
Ar. So-Bend—745 “	455 “
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. " N. Dame—8 52 “	638 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted
Henby C. Wentworth,	H. B Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, G. L. Eiirorr, Agent, South. Bend, Ind., Mich.
I
^)0
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W- S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers nr Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
W. 33. Cor. LaSalle <fc Monroe Sts.
Henby Styles, Manages.	Chicago.
f22-ly
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, A.2STI3 JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, W.LL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE	.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST 1
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, and Des Moines, (the capitol of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fair-Held, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Des Moines, to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth; between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents; andasectionfor Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points. Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Dlinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaur ant Cars that accompany all through Express Trains. Yon get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes, (and the enormous passenger business of this line. warranting it,) we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of
our Palace Cars Is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana" at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by^his line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH UNE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
AtCHICAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.	'
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft-Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & 8t. Louis R.R.
AtLA Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
AtPEOBla, withP-P. & J.:P.,L. AD.; L B. & W.; Ill. Midland; and T., p. & W. Railroads.
At ROCK island, with Western Union R. R. and Bock Island & Peoria Railroads.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R.R.
.At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids A Northern B. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa. aides Moines, withD. M. & Ft. DodgeR. R. At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R. At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.) AtComMBUS Junction, with Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis, Kan. City & Northern and C.,B. A Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo. Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk & N.-W.R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St J. & c. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison. Topeka A Santa Fe; Atchison A Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA, DES MOINES, COUNCII. BKUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWOBTHs .	„	_	_
Tickets via thia Dine, known us the “Great Bock Island Route," are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your home ticket Ofilce. address.
A. EDIBALL,	E. ST. JOHN.
* Geu’l Superintendent,	Geu’l Tlrt. and Pass’gr AgL,
Chicago JU.
.A"