^otre Dame Scholastic.
Disee quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras morHams.
Volume XIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 20, 1879. Number 3.
A Mother’s Picture.
SUGGESTED BY A BEAUTIFUL PAINTING ENTITLED “THE ANSWERED PRAYER.”
Come, thou sweet spirit, from thy realms of light That lie beyond yon star-illumined dome!
■ Come thou to me, as erst thou didst, and take Me back again to childhood and to home! Come, hallowed shade, from that Elysian land— I’ve grown so weary dwelling here alone! Come—let me feel thy dear lips, mother-like, Laid, warm and glowing, fondly on my own!
Come thou, to me—I cannot seek thee there— And wake the happy mother-songs of yore! Come, and I’ll fancy I’m again a child, And kneel me down in innocence once more, At thy dear side, as in the olden days, And lisp the pray’r that thou didst teach to me— Listening again to the sweet tales that tell Of Jehovah’s land beyond the Jasper sea,
Where lies the Golden City of the Just, Where thou art now a dweller, sainted one! Come, but for one short, happy hour, and bless With thy fond presence thy still wayward son! Let me but look upon thy face again, Gaze in thine eyes—those tender mother-eyes—	.
And forth, made blessed by an answered prayer, I’ll go where e’er my pilgrimage here lies.
—Owen Of. Wilson in" The Studio''
►
Morality in Literature.
“Let me make the ballads of a nation,” said Fletcher of Saltoun, “and I care not who makes the laws.” This remarkable and oft-quoted sentiment, coming from the mind of a distinguished Scottish statesman, shows clearly the importance to be attached to the dissemination of good literature.
When it is evident that ballad poetry, which is above referred to by the Scottish statesman, has such a decided and lasting influence on the minds of a people, it must be also evident that reading of all kinds—magazine and newspaper literature in particular—produces a correspondingly deep impression on the minds of those who make use of it.
Fletcher knew from long' experience, deep thought, and reflection,—from a close study of human nature,—that literature in its simplest form, in no matter what respect we may view it, sways the minds of the people in such a manner as to cause them to feel, think and act according to the sentiment it diffuses.
Ballad poetry is of an especially influential nature; if the song is sad, a person will become sad on hearing it sung, or on reading it; if it speaks of wrongs, injuries, etc., the people will the more keenly feel the extent of the misery to which they may have been reduced at the hands of a bad government or a tyrannical ruler.
The sentiments of a song or ballad are contagious. They also take deep root in the heart; they excite the feelings of the mind to whatever end those sentiments tend, and the effect is always in accordance with the principles thus promulgated.	.
It is, indeed, something remarkable that the people of every country always express their joys or their sorrows, their contentment or unhappiness, in song. It seems to be the most convenient and the best medium for communicating the feelings of the heart, the hopes and aspirations of the mind. By its influence, people are made to think and act as one man; it creates one common impulse, one common feeling in the breasts of all.
The national airs of a country—those soul-stirring effusions, have a wonderful effect, and each of them produces a feeling peculiarly its own. If a national air be sad or joyous, the effect corresponds to the sentiment; and if it be revolutionary, an exciting influence is aroused that reaches the heart and governs the whole being. What, may we ask, is the cause of all this ? Is a simple tune or melody so influential, so persuasive, as to cause men to lose their self-control and feel as enthusiastic as the author himself?
All men possess a common nature. The qualities of heart and mind, however, of the people of one country are sometimes quite different from those of another. One country is noted for this distinguishing quality, another for that. So also may it be said of the laws, customs, and manners of the various peoples of the globe. What is pleasing to one is by no means pleasing to another. What charms the heart of the people of this country produces no effect on the people of that. The “Marsellaise,” soulstirring, and producing an almost passionate effect on the mind of a native of sunny France, will affect a phlegmatic Englishman but little, if at all. In like manner, “God save the Queen ” has very little charm for one born beyond the bounds of the British dominions.
It is beyond a doubt, then, that literature is an important factor in moulding the feelings and sentiments of a nation; but what we wish to call attention to is the fact that it also exerts a powerful influence on individual character. Since this is the case,—since literature in its simplest form is capable of influencing the mind to an almost incredible extent,—since it acts upon the powers of the human soul like a charm, is it not the part of all reasonable and Godfearing people to look well to the kind of literature that
f
34	'	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
♦
passes inside the threshold of their homes, if they wish to keep unsullied and untarnished the minds of those whom they should prefer to see dead at their feet rather than they should commit a deliberate sin? What a person reads, he in a measure partakes of. He feasts his mind upon it What he reads becomes food to the mind, and gives force and activity to the thinking powers. To read, and not to take pleasure in what one reads, is simply incompatible with every known principle of philosophy, from the fact that reading, in the common acceptation of the term, implies the taking in of the sense of what is read, and consequently the comprehending of its meaning. There can, therefore, be no excuse for parents, guardians, and others charged with the education of youth, to allow those under their care to read anything that is not of a sound and moral character, that does not tend to the doing of good and the avoidance of evil, the practice and love of virtue, and everything that goes to make a good and perfect Christian.	«
Literature that aims at the corruption of the heart and mind should be discarded by every right-thinking man. It has but one object in view, to please the senses—the gross and natural appetites of man—those very things that should be subdued, kept in check. The body should not rule the mind and soul, but be ruled by them. What reason dictates as right, should be considered as such, and should be acted upon as such.
When we know that bad literature is worse than evil companions, why should we suffer it to enter our homes in the shape of sensational novels, trashy magazines, newspapers, etc., to find admirers in the persons of our sons and daughters, or those over whom God has been pleased to place us ? If we follow such a course of action deliberately, we are no doubt answerable to God for non-fulfilment of duty, and for the consequences that may follow such a line of action.
If we want good citizens, our literature must be good, of a moral tendency, inclucating a sense of right and justice, the love and beauty of virtue, and the joy and happiness of a good conscience.
It is better not to read at all than to read what is bad; better to live in comparative ignorance than fill our mind with the knowledge of wickedness and corruption.
Let us be wise in time, that we may be happy in eternity. Reason was given us as a guide, and if we act unreasonably—act against every principle of morality and virtue,— if we do not shun the occasions of sin as well as guard ourselves against its commission, we have no one to blame but ourselves.	A. B.
Miss Maria Edgeworth.
About the year 1800, Miss Edgeworth, one whose works have delighted and instructed generations of intelligent readers, commenced her career as an authoress.
Unlike Dean Swift, Miss Edgeworth, although not born in Ireland, did not hesitate to call that country her home. She was born in Oxfordshire, England, and was twelve years old before she was taken to Ireland. Her paternal ancestors owned a large tract of country in the County Longford, and as far as we can ascertain she was closely connected to that holy man the Abbe Edgeworth, who accompanied the unfortunate Louis XVI to the scaffold. It was on the property of the Edgeworths that Goldsmith was born.
Mias Edgeworth’s father was educated at Trinity College, Dublin, and ultimately sent to Oxford. He was a man of no small acquirements in the school of literature; he was the author of a work on Professional Education, and also some papers on Philosophical Transactions, including an essay on Spring, another on Wheel Carriages, and an account of a telegraph which he invented. He took great pleasure in developing and directing the talents of his daughter, and she was fortunate in having at hand a proficient on whose ready invention and infinite resources she could rely. Nor did he ever fail her in assistance when she ran into any difficulties or absurdities.
Miss Edgeworth attributes her success to the confidence -with which she submitted ber rough plans to her father’s decision, and the candor with which he expressed his judgments. She was thus relieved from the vacillation and anxiety to which she acknowledges she was naturally prone.
Mr. Edgeworth, her father, was scarcely twenty when he eloped with an English lady. The early years of his married life were spent in fashionable gaiety and dissipation. In 1770, at the death of his father, he became heir of the family estates, and soon after took up his residence in the town which bears the family’s name, Edgeworthstown, in the County of Longford. Here he endeared himself to his tenantry by spending the last years of his life in active exertions to benefit the people and country, by reclaiming bog land, introducing agricultural and mechanical improvements, and promoting education. '	'
In a memoir of her father which she wrote, Miss Edgeworth tells us of the happy feeling that existed between landlord and tenant. But the family were in consequence of the Revolution of ’98 obliged to withdraw, leaving their house and property in the hands of the rebels. It was, however, spared from pillage by one of these, to whom her father had previously done a kindness. They found “ not a twig touched, not a leaf harmed,” when they returned to their homestead. It was during this absence of her parents that she was born, and was twelve years of age when they returned, the troubles of ’98 being over. She describes their reception in the village, where literally nothing was to be seen but shattered windows and broken doors. “ When we came near home,” she says, “ we saw many well-known faces at the cabin doors, looking out to welcome us. One man, who was digging in his field by the roadside, when he looked up and saw our horses pass, and saw my father, let fall his spade and clasped his hands; his face, as if the morning sun shone upon it, was the strongest picture of joy I have ever seen.”
In 1801 an able work, the joint production of Mr. and Miss Edgeworth, entitled an “Essay on Irish Bulls,” appeared. She modestly tells us that .without his support she should never have finished anything. “ He inspired in my mind,” she says, “ a degree of hope and confidence essential in the first instance, to the full exertion of the mental powers, and necessary to insure success in any occupation.” Besides some critical and humorous illustrations, they did equal justice to the better traits of the Irish character, and illustrated them by some interesting and pathetic stories. Nothing comes more home to any person—and there are many such—who knows the zeal, salvd reverentia, of the land agent for the welfare of his Jord, than the dialogue between Lord Glentborne and his-agent, Mr. McLeod; it shows the perfect acquaintance of* the author with the working of the “ absentee ” system in Ireland. In fact it would seem that the author was giving
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	35

k.
k


the discourse between a certain noble in the West of Ireland and his agent, who merited to a great extent for the former the title of Commander of “the Crow-bar Brigade.’’ To every proposition of Lord GHenthorne of doing something for the good of the tenantry, Mr. McLeod answers in that vague way of “ I doubt” or 11 It maybe doubted,” so peculiar to those seemingly heartless beings.
Miss Edgeworth was not one to depreciate the Irish character, as is evident from the mutual good feelings that existed between the poor tenantry and the owner of of the soil. Far from despising the enforced poverty of that poor peasantry, who are so often “painted with a ragged coat and hat,” she was much taken by the many virtues the lay concealed beneath these tattered garments.
In 1804 Miss Edgeworth came forward with three volumes of “ Popular Tales,” characterized by the drift of her genius—“ a genuine display of nature, and a certain tone of rationality and good sense, which was the more pleasing because in a novel it was then new.”
At first it seemed strange, and one of her critics said at the time that it required almost the same courage to get rid of the jargon of fashionable life and the swarms of peers, foundlings and seducers, previously conjured into existence, as it did to sweep away the mythological persons of antiquity and to introduce characters who spoke and acted like those who were to peruse their adventures.
In “ Leonora ” the same skill is displayed in working up ordinary incidents into material of powerful fiction; but, although a moral is aimed at, the plot is pointless and disagreeable. In 1812 three other volumes of fashionable tales were issued which supported her reputation. “Vivian,” illustrating the evils arising from vacillation and infinity of purpose; “ Emilie de Coulanges,” depicting the life and manners of a fashionable French lady, and “ The Absentee.” Of these stories the latter is by far the best, and was written to expose the evil consequences of which the author saw too many instances in Ireland—of persons of rank and fortune forsaking their country-seats and native vales for the frivolous and expensive society of fashionable London. In the production of the novel entitled “ Patronage ” she plunged more deeply and sarcastically into the manners and characters then actually existing in high life. The miseries arising from that twice accursed dependence on the patronage of the great are depicted in vivid colors, and a. beautiful contrast made between the cheerfulness, the buoyancy of spirits, and the manly virtues arising from honest and independent exertions. In 1817 two volumes were offered to the public. One of these was intended to counteract the prejudice entertained by many against the Jews; the other an Irish tale not inferior to any of the former. When these were issued, a break occurred in her literary labors in consequence of the death of her father, but in three years afterwards (1820) she published his memoir, commenced by himself. Two years further on, she resumed her course of moral instruction, and published at this time a work for juvenile readers, entitled “ Rosamond,” succeeded by another called “ Harriet and Lucy.” These tales were contemplated, and already begun by her father, and by them she was led into a path in literature hitherto unbeaten. Her visit to Sir Walter Scott and the indissoluble friendship then contracted are worthy of these great minds, for as Pope says, “ the finest minds, like the finest metals, dissolve'the easiest.” Literary fame had not unfitted these eminent personages for the common business and enjoyments of life. On one occasion Scott
said that we shall never learn to feel and respect our real calling until we have taught ourselves to regard everything as moonshine except the education of the heart. Miss Edgeworth smiled, and said to her sisters, who accompanied her: “ You see how it is: Dean Swift had written books in order that people might learn to treat him as a great lord; Sir Walter writes his in order that he may be able to treat his people as a great lord ought to do.”
The last production of this gifted author was a work of fiction entitled “ Helen,” in which she displays more ardor and pathos than in any of her former books. The gradation of vice and folly, and the unhappiness resulting from falsehood and artifice are skilfully portrayed in this novel. She died in 1840, at the advanced age of 84 years.
In the genius of Miss Edgeworth there was scarcely a spark of poetic or romantic feeling. She wrote exclusively for the utility of the public.
As a novelist she procured, from good and evil alike, matter suitable for her purpose. In the knowledge of the world she was thoroughly versed; and though her information was extensive and correct, yet while treating of fashionable life, and folly, and dissipation, she makes a digression bordering on caricature. The difficulty of confining a tale to the exposure and correction of one particular vice with success, in an ordinary hand would have been perilous in the extreme, but Miss Edgeworth overcame that by the ease, the spirit, and variety of her delineations and the truly masculine freedom with which she exposes the crimes and follies of mankind.
Her sentiments are so just and true, and her style so clear and forcible, that an unswerving assent to her moral views and deductions are demanded, although it may be said that she is not always consistent at the close of her narrative in distributing justice among her characters. In originality and fertility of invention she was not second to any contemporary novelist. The rich humor, pathetic tenderness, and admirable tact of her Irish portraits led Sir Walter to think that something of the same kind might be attempted for his own country.	.
She never repeats; her incidents, her characters, her dialogues, her plots, are new. And in this consists the success of that immortal genius who could throw himself heart and soul into the situation, the circumstances, the nature, the acquired habits, the feelings, true or fictitious, of every character which he introduces. Shakspeare embodies his genius as much in “Shylock” and in “Iago” as in “Arthur” or “King Lear”; he is as much at home with the Italian school child and the Roman matron as with the princes of Denmark and the lords of Troy. So it was with Miss Edgeworth. The twenty closely printed volumes of her rapidly written tales may be read without meeting with repetitions, or causing in the least any satiety.
__________ ______________ P. J. M.
—“ How do you keep out of quarrels ? ” asked one friend of another. “ Oh, easily enough,” was the reply, “ if a man gets angry with me, I let him have all the quarrel to himself.”	'
—Mrs. Edward Creighton, of Omaha, in carrying out the wishes of her deceased husband bequeathed some $200,000 or upwards, to build or endow a free college in the city of Omaha. The institution is under the care of the Jesuit Fathers, and a large number of children, Protestant as well as Catholic, are enjoying the benefits of a Christian education.	-
I
36	Z THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
*
From the Catholic Advocate, Louisville, Ky.
Col. Theodore O’Hara.
AN INTERESTING SKETCH OP THE CATHOLIC SOLDIER-POET.
BY SIDNEY HERBERT.
“ On Fame’s eternal camping ground Their silent tombs are spread, Arid Glory guards with solemn round The bivouac of the dead.”
But few readers, outside of the Southern States, will recognize the name which heads this sketch; and yet from Maine to far-off California, in cities where the dead lie in countless graves, and in quiet towns where but few have been laid in the silent tomb, the verse which he penned, and which precedes this paragraph, has been used on “Memorial Day,” year after year, by both Federals and Confederates, in honor of their gallant dead.
This verse, if I mistake not, has been inscribed over the “National Cemetery” at Arlington, Virginia, opposite Washington, and on the monument erected at Boston, Massachusetts, in memory of the Union soldiers who fell in battle or died in service during the late war. It is more than probable that its appropriateness has resulted in its use for similar purposes in other portions of .the country.
It was not written, as is frequently stated, “by a rebel,” nor in commemoration of “ rebel ” soldiers “ dead on the field of battle.” Its author was as gallant and as true a soldier as drew a sword on the bloody fields of Mexico, and long before the late civil war he paid this tribute to the heroic dead who fell during that stirring and illustrious campaign, and who were his beloved companions in arms.
The State of Kentucky, desiring to do honor to her sons who fell in the Mexican war, through her legislators, provided for the gathering up of their remains from various places, and their reinterment in the cemetery at Frankfort, where sleeps a line of illustrious dead of other days and ruder scenes. A monument was erected in the midst of these graves to commemorate the deeds of valor of the dead heroes who were to rest beneath its shadow until “ time shall be no more.” This action called forth from Col. O’Hara’s gifted pen the following touching poem, one of the most tender and beautiful of his poetic productions, and the one from which the above-named verse has been -taken:
" THE BIVOUAC OF THE DEAD.
The muffled drum’s sad roll has beat
The soldier’s last tattoo!
No more on life’s parade shall meet That brave and fallen few.
On Fame’s eternal camping ground Their silent tents are spread, And Glory guards with solemn round The bivouac of the dead.
The rumor of the foe’s advance Now swells upon'the wind, Nor troubled thought at midnight haunts Of loved ones left behind.
No vision of the morrow’s strife The warrior’s dream alarms, No braying horn, no screaming fife At dawn shall call to arms.
Their shivered swords are red with rust, Their plumed heads are bowed, ' Their haughty banner, trailed in dust, Is now their martial shroud—
And plenteous funeral tears have washed
- The red stains from each brow, ’ And the proud forms by battle grasped, Are free from anguish now.
The neighing troop, the flashing blade, The bugle’s stirring blast,
The charge, the dreadful cannonade, The din and shout are passed.
Nor War’s wild notes, nor Glory’s peal
Shall thrill with fierce delight	,
Those breasts that never more may feel
The rapture of the fight.
Like the fierce northern hurricane
That sweeps his great plateau, ' Flashed with the triumph yet to gain, Came down the serried foe.
Who heard the thunder of the fray Break o’er the field beneath, Knew well the watchword of the day
Was “Victory or Death! ”
Full many a mother’s breath has swept O’er Angostura’s plain,
And long the pitying sky has wept Above its mouldering slain.
The raven’s scream or eagle’s flight, Or shepherd]s pensive lay
Alone now wake each solemn height That frowned o’er that dead fray.
Sons of the dark and bloody ground 1 Ye must not slumber there,
Where stranger steps and tongues resound
Along the heedless air;
Your own proud land’s heroic soil Shall be your fitter grave;
She claims from soil her richest spoil— The ashes of her brave.
Thus ’neath their parent turf they rest, Far from the glory field,
Borne to a Spartan mother’s breast On many a bloody shield.
The sunshine of their native sky
Smiles sadly on them here,	.
And kindred eyes and hearts watch by The heroes’ sepulchre.
Rest on, embalmed and sainted dead!
Dear is the land you gave—
No impious footsteps here shall tread
’ The herbage of your grave.
Nor shall your glory be forgot
While Fame her record keeps, Or Honor points the hallowed spot
Where valor proudly sleeps. '
Your marble minstrel’s voiceful stone In deathless song shall tell,
When many a vanished year hath flown, The story how you fell;
Nor wreck, nor change, nor Winter’s blight, Nor Time’s remorseless doom
Can dim one ray of holy light That gilds your glorious tomb.
REINTERMENT OF COL. O’HARA.
CoL O’Hara not only passed safely through the perils ot the Mexican campaign, and lived to embalm in immortal verse the heroic deeds of his fallen comrades, but he also
<
4
A
A
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	37
served with distinction in the Confederate army, being at one time on the staff of General Albert Sidney Johnston, and holding the great Captain in his arms when death came to him so suddenly in the midst of a charge upon his retreating enemy.	t
After the war, Col. O’Hara for a short time resided in Columbus, Georgia, where he was associated with a relative, Capt. J. J. Grant, in conducting the Planters’ Warehouse. When this was destroyed by fire, he one day remarked to the editor of the Daily Enquirer that there were two things he didn’t want to be mixed up with again—gunpowder and cotton. For a time Col. O’Hara was connected with the Mobile (Alabama) Daily Register, but returned to Columbus, and died on the plantation of Capt. Grant in Bullock County, Alabama, in 1867. He was, however, buried in the cemetery at Columbus, Georgia.
On the 3d of July, 1874, Gen. Thomas H. Taylor, acting • for the State of Kentucky, removed the remains from the cemetery in Columbus and transferred them to the cemetery at Frankfort, Kentucky. The people of Columbus paid marked respect to the remains, which were escorted from the cemetery to the depot by the Columbus Guard and the City Light Guards, the column being commanded by Col. W. S. Shepherd, and the band playing the “ Dead March in Saul.” Confederate and Mexican war veterans, and ladies, followed the military.
At Frankfort, on July 15th, in the presence of an immense concourse of spectators, and with imposing cere. monies, the remains of Col. O’Hara, and also those of Cols. Fry and Caldwell, were reinterred beside their old comrades of the Mexican war. The reading of his beautiful poem, “ The Bivouac of the Dead,” formed a part of the programme of that solemn occasion. Capt. J. S. Van de Graaf, in the New Orleans Sunday Times, had anticipated this removal and reinterment in the following stirring lines:
BRING BACK THE HERO’S DUST.
Son of the “dark and bloody ground,”
Thou must not slumber there:
Tho’ sister States thy praises sound Along the Southern air,
Kentucky’s soil shall be thy grave— Thy native sod thy tomb ;
The noble cause thou fought’st to save With thee is wrapt in gloom.
Thy Celtic breast was fired to arms, Regardless of the cost;
A tyrant’s act awoke alarms— The battle now is lost.
-	Thou lent an ear to Honor’s voice—
True instinct of the brave,—
And kindred.hearts will now rejoice To guard their hero’s grave.
The song you sang o’er warriors dead Thy fitter requiem be ;
For freely, too, thou wouldst have bled, And smiled at Fate’s decree.
Thy gallant life has gone to God— A soldier’s sleep be thine;
Though stiff thy form and cold thy clod, Thy soul was e’er divine.
Then let thy sacred dust be laid In Valor’s proudest spot:
And may the lyre, so sweetly played, By friends be not forgot;
But turned by some great master-hand To strike one pensive lay,
And call thy spirit to the land Made hallowed by thy clay.
Thus briefly I have sketched the main points in Col. O’Hara’s life, so far as they refer to his oft-quoted poem. He was a brother journalist, gifted, brave and generous, living for others and dying poor himself. A recent visitor to the Frankfort Cemetery, after referring to the splendid monument to Col. Richard M. Johnson, says: “Near this monument stands the grand military monument erected in honor of all the officers and soldiers who have given their lives to the service of the State. Somewhat apart from the rest is the grave of Col. Theodore O’Hara, born in 1820, poet, journalist and soldier, the history of whose eventful career reads almost like a romance.” I
[From “McGee’s Illustrated Weekly.”]
What Becomes of our Graduates?
As if in response to a question asked by us a couple of weeks since, the Catholic Sentinel, Portland, Oregon, makes the following remarks, with which we do not fully agree, but consider worthy of serious consideration. “Every Catholic can see for himself what becomes of Catholic young men and women in a majority of cases. They get “squired” to some. Protestant; they join some secret society; they renounce their religion and join in the ranks of the thirty millions of skeptics, atheists, infidels and pagans who comprise what is known as the Protestant sects m this enlightened land of civil and religious liberty! Of the thousands of young men who graduate at Catholic col. leges, fully fifty per cent, of them fall away entirely from the Church; another twenty-five per cent, remain merely nominal Catholics, who say a prayer occasionally, go to Mass occasionally, and only think of religion when reminded of it by some old-country father or mother. This leaves one-fourth of our Catholic graduates to be disposed of, and what becomes of them ? A few discover a vocation and enter Holy Orders; others take up the study of law or medicine, or pursue literature lor a living, but if the Church in the* future has to depend upon the graduates of American Catholic schools for her defenders, we may heartily pray—Lord have mercy on her! There are brilliant exceptions, of course, but in all our reading of nearly sixty Catholic journals and periodicals every week, we have yet to see the first effort made by a modem graduate in defense of Catholic doctrine. There are two Catholic journals published on this coast—the Monitor in San Francisco, and the Sentinel. Hundreds of graduates have been turned out lull Hedged from the academies and colleges which abound on the coast, yet—in our own case—we never received five contributions in ten years from this class of scholastics, and we think we can say the same for our California contemporary. This, we confess, is a sad admission to make, but we make it in order that our Catholic teachers may see the necessity that exists for ‘ building up ’ the Catholic faith in the minds of those entrusted to tneir charge. The knowledge of Catholic doctrine or Catholic history does not come by intuition. It must be impressed upon the youthful mind by deep study, and it is far more useful for their souls’ sake that Catholic children should be able to defend the Seven Sacraments against the attacks of the world, than that they should be able to tell the number of soldiers and the names of the Generals engaged at the siege of Troy. Caesar and Confucius are familiar names to graduates from many colleges, who would be puzzled to tell you the name ot the Pope who preceded Pius IX, and at hap-hazard guess might tell you: Why, Pius VHI, of course! Such education may make moneymaking men and worldly-minded women out of the graduates of Catholic schools, but it can never give them the solid piety and practical Catholic knowledge possessed by the scnool-children of Marpingen, whose studies are blessed by Almighty God in consequence of their regular attendance at Mass every day.”
We hope the editor of the Sentinel is mistaken, and that in a fit of the blues he has overdrawn his estimate against the college graduates of the Pacific coast; but, in any event, we see no harm in ventilating the matter. If true, it cannot fail to induce sad reflections in the minds of some of those who incline to laxity, who risk their own salvation and are a stumbling-block to others; if overdrawn, then the truth has a chance of coming to light. As to our own Alma Mater, we rejoice to see the great majority of its graduates doing it and themselves honor; and although a few of the graduates are undoubtedly of the 25 per cent, class mentioned above, yet we know not of one who has fallen away from the faith. Elsewhere in our columns will be found an estimate to which we respectfully call attention.
—Why is a beggar like a barrister? Because he pleads for his daily bread.

38	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The poet Heinrich Leuthold lately died in the lunatic asylum at Burghblzli, at the age of 52.
—Keith Johnson’s last literary work was completed for the press before he died.
—Patti has sung Gounod’s “ Aos Maria" with an accom-• paniment of twenty-two’ violins in unison.
—The next volume in the Eggleston series of “Lives of Famous American Indians ” will be “ Pocahontes.”
—The “ Deeds of Peter the Great ” is the title of a work, in fifteen volumes, which has made its appearance at Moscow.
—Verdi, the composer, who now lives in Geneva, says that his age and infirmities have compelled him to relinquish all artistic work.
—A. volume of Father Ryan’s poems is to be published in October by The Mobile Register. That paper says that it will be the finest book ever issued from a Southern press.
—Les Mondes, a French scientific journal, founded and edited by the Abbe Moigno, has become the property of a joint stock company. The venerable abbe is still at the helm.
—Charles Reade says that he will never go through the drudgery of another novel. He is making a great deal of money from his play of “Drink,” taken from “ L’Assom-moir.”
—Harassowitz, of Leipsic, promises an exact photolithographic reproduction of the original manuscript of Thomas A’Kempis’s “Imitatio Christi” recently discovered in the Royal Library of Brussels.
—Cardinal Hergenrother has been commissioned by the Pope to submit to him a new plan for arranging the Vatican archives, in order to make them more accessible to scholars. At the same time the Cardinal has been authorized to publish interesting codices.
•—“Electric Light,” an American comic opera, words and music by Baltimore authors, proved a complete success at its initial performance on Monday last, in the opinion of the Baltimore papers. Its libretto is quite of an American type, and the music is said to be bright and pleasing.
—Mr. George Barnett Smith, an ambitious and superficial writer, will publish early in September a “ Life of the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone,” in two volumes. This work will be illustrated with two portraits—one taken from a painting by Joseph Severn in 1840, and the other from a recent photograph.	.
—The Boston Public Library has received a copy of the “Missals Veins Hibernicum” lately published by F. E. Warren, Fellow of St John’s College, Oxford. It is a reprint, with fac-similes, of a twelfth-century Irish Massbook now in the library of Corpus Christi. It is written in Latin, but with the ancient Irish characters.
—Father Adrian Rouquette, who under the nom-de-plume of Chahta Ima, has enriched the literature of Louisiana with some exquisite verses in English and French, has written a prose poem, “La Nouvelle Atala ou la fille de 1’esperit” It is a beautiful Indian legend, written by one who, having identified himself with the children of the forest, could best appreciate and express their dreams and traditional stories.
—Messrs. Rivington will re-issue this fall, with a preface by Cardinal Newman,‘the “Lyra Apostolica,” containing poems by Cardinal Newman, the author of “The Christian Year,” Robert Wilberforce, Isaac Williams and others. These poems, it will be remembered, first appeared in the British Magazine contemporaneously with the “ Tracts for the Times,” and this will be the first issue of the work with the author’s name recorded.
—The poet Longfellow has a picture of the Abbe Listz, the pianist, which he prizes very highly. It represents the subject peering into darkness with a candle in his hand, which he holds high above his head. The poet says that it was in such a manner the pianist came into the room
when he and the artist Healy called upon him. The pose delighted Mr. Longfellow so much that he engaged the artist to transfer it to canvas.—American Art Journal.
—If an article were valuable only by reason of its rarity, then must the poems of Walt Whitman be precious indeed. The Duke of Argyll, hunting for curiosities, ransacked New York in vain for a copy of that poet-of-the-future’s “ Leaves of Grass.” The more hopeless the task, the more determined the Duke. His Grace at length telegraphed to the author, who resides at Camden, N. J., for a copy of the “Lay of the Unknown Hay.”—American Art Journal.
—The Chicago Journal says that the last picture by Miss Tuck, who is well known in South Bend, “ is a landscape representing a scene on the St. Joseph River. It is realistic, with an especially natural sky and woodland shadow along the brook that winds down from the background.” We • notice that all artists who visit South Bend and vicinity are charmed with the scenery along the St. Joseph. Miss Tuck’s studio is in Pike’s building—South-Bend Tribune.
—All lovers of the beautiful, and particularly those who have lingered in Rome, will regret to learn that the fine fountain of the Ponte Sisto—certainly one of the most picturesque of all Rome’s many fountains, its waters rushing into a great shell in the upper part and then splashing down into the basin far below, into which also strong jets played from the mouths of two winged dragons, and crossed one another “like sabres gleaming bright against the dark, damp moss-grown stones—” is now being demolished. It stands in the way of the exigencies of modern Rome—an interruption in the line of the Tiber embankment—and must come down. It seems a great pity that so beautiful an object could not have been spared. It was built by Giovanni Fontana for Paul V. in the year 1631.
—Says Anthony Comstock in one of his reports: “ One item in the table—22,600 names and postoffice addresses ” —shows the reach of this miasmatic literature. But it does not tell half the story. Half! it is not so much as an introduction to it. A publisher sends out a circular to all the postmasters of the country. He professes to be preparing a directory of schools and school children of the United States. He will give five cents a name for every list sent him. The unwary postmaster falls into the trap and sends on the list. The wary postmaster possibly suspects, but shuts his eyes and pockets his fee. Then circulars are sent by hundreds and thousands to these children—boys and girls—worded with a devil’s skill to pique the curiosity, stimulate the imagination, inflame the passions. You think your boy is safe. No boy is safe.”
—The London Athen&um (says the Western Watchman) has just published an article on the Earl of Egmont’s papers, which will, give rise to no little controversy. Among those papers is a series of letters from Dr. Berkeley, Dean of Derry and Bishop of Cloyne. It says:
“The Berkeley letters, which should not be missed by any reader curious in the Bishop’s story, are followed in the same calendar by a notice of four volumes entitled ‘Adversaria,’ from the second, of which we take this curious statement about John Milton, which seems to have been believed by Lord Percival.	.
“ Milton, the poet, died a papist. Dr. Charlette, Master of University College, Oxford, told me lately at Bath that he remembers to have heard from Dr. Sinks that he was at an entertainment in King James’ when Sir Christopher Milton, one of the Judges and older brother to the famous Mr. Milton, the poet, was present; that the Judge did then say publicly that his brother was a papist some years before he died, and that he died so.”
—Mr. H. T. Quinn, the author of several valuable books' on horticultural subjects, is traveling abroad on a summer vacation, and writing some interesting letters to the Newark Advertiser at the same time. In a recent letter, dated Edgeworthstowu, Ireland, he says: “ Sixty miles northeast by railroad from Dublin brings you to this quaint, old-fashioned town named after the family, one of whom is known by reputation wherever the English language is spoken. The simple, natural and fascinating stories, written by Miss Maria Edgeworth; stories that have given pleasure and real enjoyment to-old as well as to young folks, for whom they were written, were composed and sent to the public from under the roof of the
hi
S'

<4
<1
4 i

J	.
I	.	.
i	•
’	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	39
family residence, situated on the outskirts of this old town. This same house, that was for a long time a model of grandeur, surrounded with spacious grounds, studded here and there with magnificent oaks, elms, and lime trees, choice shrubbery and artistically arranged beds of flowering and budding plants, is not what it was formerly; and, unfortunately, the family, like the homestead, shows very marked signs of crumbling away with age and neglect.”
—“ Is it not strange that men who claim to be well informed should base their faith on the dicta of such theorists as Darwin, Huxley, Tyndall and Herbert Spencer, who never think of giving a moment’s thought to the claims of revealed religion? Something is wrong somewhere. Is it in the heart or in the intellect? Haekel, the great (?) German naturalist says, that the higher forms of life are evolved from the lower, and the primitive forms are produced by the action of natural forces on brute matter. If you ask him where or how, he cannot answer. Granting his assumption and ask him who created this brute matter, these forces of nature, that he speaks of, and he will become indignant at your asking such leading questions. Ask him something easier. Haekel does not believe in a Creator, but thinks any man pretending to be a philosopher should be able to evolve the universe from his brain alone. Many in their desire to get rid of the restraints of religion try to believe in his teachings, but their conscience gives them no rest.”—Catholic Columbian. These remarks of the Columbian are just to the point. Science without religion is like a vessel without ballast, and those scientists who scoff at religion are much like a man who would attempt to pass for a physician without having studied, and ridiculing the idea of studying, anatomy. The medical theories of the latter would not be worth much, his scouting to the contrary notwithstanding; and worth just as much are the theological theories of these scientists, who prate about what they know nothing of.
Scientific Notes.
—During a recent storm the gas and water-pipes of a dwelling were connected with an ordinary Bell telephone, and it was found the electrical discharges were plainly indicated, either by a sharp crack or a succession of taps. This occurred when the discharge was so distant that the thunder was inaudible. The sound also seemed to be perceived by the ear before the lightning could be seen. There is some danger in conducting this experiment if not done with suitable apparatus.
—If a musket ball be fired into the water it will not only rebound but be flattened; if fired through a pane of glass it will make a hole the size of the ball without cracking the glass; if suspended by a thread it will make no difference, and the thread will not even vibrate. Cork, if sunk 200 feet in the ocean, will not rise on account of the pressure of water. In the Arctic regions, when the thermometer is below zero, persons can converse more than a mile distant. Dr. Jamison asserts that he heard every word of a sermon at the distance of two miles.
—It being believed and stated by many that the power of the microscope could not be developed to a much greater extent, Dr. Royston Pigott has made an experiment of making a miniature of a very minute object, such as a spider’s web, and by these means found that objects’ as small as the one-millionth of an inch could be seen by the aid of the microscope. Opticians should, therefore, still use their energies to improve object-glasses and other accessories. The present power of compound microscopes is now limited to four thousand diameters: this is equivalent to enlarging the object sixteen million times. Still, with such immense power, objects are seen which are mere points.
—To-day there are seven million barrels, of forty gallons each, of crude petroleum above ground in the oil regions. This vast amount of heat and light is going a-begging at sixty cents a barrel, and every hour adds to this ocean of oil, and in spite of the enormous consumption the stock accumulates. Every new use to which petroleum is applied possesses interest to producers, and that day when
crude oil will take the place of coal for steam-producing purposes is considered not far distant. Experiments have been made in this respect, with a small steam-ship, with the best results, and as thus burned ho smoke or odor is apparent.
—British naturalists are so much pleased with the results of the labors of Dr. Elliott Cones, Assistant Surgeon of the United States Army, that some thirty or more have signed a memorial praying that he be continued in his position of ornithologist and given facilities to go to Europe and complete his work. Owing to the usefulness and high grade of his bibliographical appendix to the “Birdsof the Colorado Valley,” which is No. 11 of the miscellaneous publications of the United States Geological Survey of the territories, under the charge of Dr. Hayden, these scientists consider him the man best fitted, by his knowledge, and industry, to undertake the great task of compiling a bibliography of works relating to birds. Mivart, Flower, Huxley, Darwin, and Wallace are among the signers.
—Dr. Bock, of Leipsic, writes as follows on the moral effect of different articles of food and drink: “The nervousness and peevishness of our times are chiefly attributable to tea and coffee; the digestive organs of confirmed coffeedrinkers are in a state of chronic derangement, which reacts on the brain, producing fretful and lachrymose moods. Fine ladies addicted to strong coffee have a characteristic temper, which I might describe as a mania for acting the persecuted saint. Chocolate is neutral in its psychic effects, and is really the most harmless of our fashionable drinks. The snappish, petulant humor of the Chinese can certainly be ascribed to their immoderate fondness for tea. Beer is brutalizing, wine impassions, whiskey infuriates, but eventually unmans. Alcoholic drinks, combined with a flesh and fat diet, totally subjugate the moral man, unless their influence be counteracted by violent exercise.	'
Books and Periodicals.
—Church's Musical Visitor, Cincinnati, Ohio, is one of the very best musical publications in the country and has been a most welcome visitor to our table. It contains a variety of able articles on musical subjects or on matters pertaining to music, from writers of acknowledged merit, sketches of eminent composers, musical gossip, etc. Seven pieces of music are published in each number. Published monthly by John Church & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio, at $1.50 a year.
—The present number of the Georgetown College Journal,	r
closes the seventh volume. We regret to learn from all editorial notice that the paper is not appreciated as it deserves—being so poorly supported, in fact, that its continuance seems to be a matter of doubt. It would be a pity that one of the four or five Catholic college papers should be permitted to die out for want of means to carry it on, or rather through lack of energy. All, or nearly all the non-Catholic colleges have their paper, exciting a spirit of emulation among the students, giving opportunities for practice in writing and journalism, and advertising the institutions from which they are issued. The young men at Georgetown, and the students of former years, may perhaps learn to appreciate the benefit of their college paper when it is too late.
—The Niagara Index is the first of our Catholic college exchanges that reaches our table. The Index is always a welcome visitor, and we may, perhaps, be permitted to congratulate its managers on the decided improvement both in typographical appearance and in general tone, that has characterized the paper during the past year especially. It were to be regretted that our Catholic college papers should favor, much less manifest, the pugnacious spirit of many of the so-called college papers. In fact, until of late a college paper was not considered a college paper unless it kept up a boxing match with one or other of its exchanges—just for the fun of the thing, we suppose—but we are glad to see that the editor of the Niagara Index, while holding himself ever in readiness to strike a manly blow for the right and in defence of those who are maligned, shoves aside with a strong arm and in cool contempt the muscular younglings who wish to knock the chip off his shoulders.
40.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC].
Notre Dame, September 20, 187"9.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip ot the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
AU the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Ter Annum, Tostpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
True Culture.
The following short remark, clipped from the columns of an exchange, is one which we consider very sensible, and well deserving of the attention of those interested in the advance of mankind and society; presenting, as it does, for their consideration, in one short expression, both a reason and a remedy for that gross defect so sadly perceptible and steadily increasing in the general system of education of our day. It says “ there is just now a great clamor and demand for ‘culture,’ but it is not so much culture that is needed as discipline,” and the truth of its words are plainly visible to every reasonable and observing thinker.
For in the first place, he recognizes in a course of strict moral discipline by far the most essential element of a truly Christian education. He realizes the fact that this strongly demanded culture which in the common acceptation of the word refers but to the development of the mind, the acquirement of knowledge and the more elegant accomplishments, although in itself highly desirable, is not only useless but pernicious to the youth advancing to the age of manhood, unless preceded in its onward course step by step by the thorough development and faithful cultivation of those higher, nobler sentiments of the heart which will insure an ardent love and steadfast following of virtue’s course; by the constant tempering of the impetuous passion, which will teach the subject how to submit to legitimate authority, and overcome the impulsive desires of his nature, and by the careful and judicious training of the will which will produce the power of self-control, with habits of order and strict morality. For, otherwise, he sees, the application of these mental acquirements would be but to the carrying out of all the promptings of a vicious and selfish nature.
Now, in the second place, he observes that in the system
of education adopted by most of the colleges and schools of our country, by those by far the most popular and the best patronized, the importance of moral discipline is, at least practically, altogether ignored. 'He sees an entire want of all obligatory regulations tending to improve the life and habits of the student, or rules requiring an account of his time spent outside the class-room. All that is expected of the student is to know his lessons and be on hand to recite them. Apart from this he enjoys in his life a perfect freedom from all the dictates of his superiors. His entire time may be spent upon the streets, or within the walls of the billiard-room or other places of public resort; his associations are all of his own selection, his conduct and habits may be of the most disorderly and dissipated nature; as the institution which he attends has no control, prescribes no laws. Nay more—not only does it leave the morality of his life to the freedom of the student, but in the majority of cases directs as obligatory no studies pertaining to religion and the great object of his life, that would at least teach him how to be a good man and true Christian should his better nature so impel him.
Consequently from these two points he draws the conclusion that the genuine education of the masses of children of our nation is defective and improper, and that as a natural consequence the morality of our people must be tending to a decline, the correctness of which conclusion is confirmed by the observance of the alarming extent to which the intellectual accomplishments are used at the present time for corrupt and vicious purposes, and the terribly increasing depravity of the lives and habits of our most enlightened, most thoroughly cultured and most prominent men.
He opens his eyes with amazement, shudders at the very thought, and exclaims with deploring regret—“ But what is the trouble?—to whom belongs the blame? surely the generality of mankind are not so ignorant but that they can see the vital importance of strict discipline in the formation of a truly Christian character; is it then entirely to the various institutions of our land that disregard its practice, that the blame should be attributed?” We answer no; to them belongs by far the smallest portion. They are in a measure excusable, for in its adaption they see the death-blow to their very existence; they know that as soon as it would be introduced and enforced they would lose their entire support and patronage. In fact, were institutions combining discipline with mental learning in their course more generally demanded, and better patronized, a greater number of them would appear in our midst.
The trouble is that the majority of students dislike to submit to any disciplinary restraint whatever, and the blame is to tlie over-indulgent parents who, having failed through culpable ignorance or wanton neglect of their sacred duties, to give to their youthful offspring a course of true culture, by which we mean the education of both heart and mind, a watchful guardianship of the habits, a careful training of the disposition, which-would have implanted in his mind a correct idea of what a true man is, and in his heart a strong desire and determination to be a true man, with the necessary disposition to submit to all proper restraints and discipline to attain that noble end, have, on the contrary, engendered in the child a precocious spirit of independence of all authority to which the parent too must yield and which consents to no control in his actions or desires. The consequence is, if placed for his more advanced instruction in an institution strict in its
■< vt
>S . - <
1 ■'

I
T '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
discipline, he fails to get along, cannot be controlled, and leaves, if not dismissed, to pursue his studies in some house of instruction where true discipline is unknown and where he will be free to spend the most of his time in the uncurbed pursuit of pleasure, and acquire the most dissipated habits, the foundation of the vicious and dissolute life that must follow.
We repeat, then, to the fault of the parents must this all man during his earliest years been restrained and corrected by the gentle hand and careful direction of a truly loving be attributed. For, had the natural impulses of this young parent, had he been taught habits of order and self-control, had he been required to give at all times a full account of his whereabouts and his occupations, accustomed to consult and obey his parents concerning all his actions, and then at the proper time placed for the completion of his education in. a school in which the same true method of discipline is required and enforced, he would have come forth from the walls of his Alma Mater to enter upon the arena of life a different man, one worthy of the name, a useful member of society, well fitted and prepared to attain the noble destiny for which he was created.
This then is the great defect in the raising of youth to manhood which must be overcome, the prevailing disorder necessary to be remedied, in order that we may see the moral and social tone of society improved and raised to a higher standard—the general failing on the part of the parents of our times to realize, or at least to execute the sacred functions of their office in a manner proper and faithful towards their children, to give their personal attention to the reception by them, from youth to manhood, of a constant course of that perfect and complete education which we have called true culture.
Honors.	■
It is often repeated by students, at the beginning cf the scholastic year that they intend to work hard in order to obtain a First Honor. Now, it might be well to suggest to them that their success depends entirely upon that one word, “ work," for we have never seen a student who worked in earnest that did not receive the reward of his labor. But you may say that you have seen many students who strove {diligently to obtain a medal of honor, and who at the close of the year were sadly disappointed. Such may have been the case with a few, but you may rest assured that there were found in the character of those persons, traits of dishonor and insincerity. To be worthy of an Honor, a student must be honorable. He should be a man of honor in every place, and under all circumstances. He should not only keep the rule, a thing which all are obliged to do,, but should always have the intention of doing what is expected of him, and what duty obliges him to do. In fine, the student who strives to be a true gentleman will merit and receive the honor and respect due to gentlemanly conduct. To return once more to the word “ work,” which in reference to Honors is so oft repeated, we will say in conclusion that the definition of the word, which is, “ to labor,” “to toil,” “to act,” etc., is enough to prove that any student can secure an Honor who is willing to work for it.
—Why is it almost certain that Shakespeare was a money broker? Because no man has furnished so many stock quotations.
Personal.	'
—Douglas J. Cook, of ’59, is a prominent business man in St. Louis, Mo.
—Chas. Spencer, ’63, of Jackson, Mich., called at the . University last week.
—T. O’Neill, (Commercial), of ’71, is cashier of Burke’s European Hotel, Chicago.	.
—Mr. John Keveny, S. J., who was a student here in ’66, is now visiting in Chicago.
W. Turnbull (Commercial), of ’76, is a clerk in the Pullman Palace Car Factory, Chicago.
—John English (Commercial), of ’79, is with the firm of English, Miller & Co., Columbus, Ohio.
—Edward Haydel, who was a student here in ’68, is in the real estate business in St. Louis, Mo.
—W. Hoynes, of ’69, can be found at his new law office, cor. Monroe and Lasalle streets, Chicago.
—R. L. de Puy, of ’67, resides at Indianapolis. He has an office in the Franklin Building, on the Circle.
—Ed. Moran (Commercial), ’75, can be found at his father’s commission house, 107 & 109 Water st., Chicago.
—Rev. Father Kielty, of ’53, is the energetic pastor of the Church of the Immaculate Conception, St. Louis, Mo.
—Harry Scott, of ’76, is still engaged in the large and popular dry-goods establishment of his father in Burlington, Iowa.
—Among the visitors at Notre Dame last week were Mr. J. M. Loughlin, of Evansville, Ind., and Mr. James Eden, of Niles, Mich.
—J. W. Coppinger, of ’69, has a large law practice at Alton, Ill., and his brother T. H. Coppinger, who was here in ’70, has entered a Jesuit novitiate.
’ —Rev. P. Riordan, of ’56, will have his new church (St. James’s) dedicated in November. It is one of the finest specimens of Gothic architecture in the West. -
—We are glad to hear from our old friend Michael B. Kaufiinan, of ’77, when renewing his subscription, for the Scholastic. Mike is in business with his father.
—Mr. Florian Devoto, of ’79, is one of the tutors for the present year. He lately attended, in Chicago, the wedding of his sister, Miss Rose Devoto, who has married Dr. Coffman, of Omaha.
—Frank P. Brady, of ’75, is flourishing at Versailles, Ill. He deserves success, the more especially as he takes such interest in the Scholastic and renews his subscription so promptly. May he ever prosper!
—Our excellent friend Mr. Barrett is as busy as a nailer, assisting the steam-fitters. Being a practical machinist, his services at pipe-fitting are most available, and it is needless to say that they are given with a will.
—Mr. J. C. O’Rourke, of ’76-’77, spent a few days of this week with us, seeing his old friends and professors. Mr. O’Rourke seems to be enjoying good health. He is studying with the intention of becoming a member of the Paulist Order. He reports Rev. Father Elliot, of ’67, to be in the best of health. All the old students whom he met in St. Paul during his vacation are prospering in business.
—Master Joseph Homan, a student from Cincinnati, who was called home to attend the funeral of a brother, has the sympathy of his many new friends at the College for the bereavement. The faculty and students sympathize with the youth, and with the parents and friends of the deceased, although wishing to console them with the thought that their bereavement is certainly his eternal gain. Requiescat in pace.
—Rev. Father Kelly returned on Saturday last from his trip to the Island of Saints. He says that business matters in the old country are at a very low ebb at present, though the people there are as kind and hospitable as ever. Rains have been continuous of late, destroying or very seriously injuring the crops, and during his stay there was not a single dry day. Father Kelly thinks the scenery around the Wicklow mountains is simply grand.
42	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Among the faces of old and endeared college compan-ions’we met during our trip this summer was that of Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, ’75, now pastor of St. Mary’s Church, Clinton, Iowa, by whom we were received and treated as a brother, with the kind and generous hospitality which all of his former companions can testify is natural for him to display. . Father McLaughlin in his present location is performing the duties of the mission so long occupied by his deceased brother, Rev. P. V. McLaughlin, and continues the noble work with the same ardent zeal for which his beloved predecessor was noted in that diocese. ;Were it not for the fire, Father McLaughlin would have been with us at the annual reunion in June. He has, however, promised us a, visit some time this fall. We only hope it may be soon. A host of friends await to greet him.
Local Items.
—Gaudeamus.
—Spare the trees.
—Still they come.
—Love one another.
—Send in your items.
—Where is Gootrich’s dog ?
—Subscribe for the Scholastic.
—Keep your desk in good order.
—A little learning is a dangerous thing.
—The Euglossians have powerful lungs.
—Farm life does not agree with “ Dick.”
—Write frequently and carefully, to compose well.
—The collegians are more numerous this year than last.
—The professors, instructors, and tutors are all hard at work.
—Never carry more than fifty pounds of silver in your valise.
—Silver spoons and forks are “returnable” at Notre Dame.
—Men love us for our money; God rewards us for our virtues.	,
—The Juniors return thanks to Bro. Polycarp for favors received.
—All enjoyed the half-holiday given in honor of the Bishop’s visit.
—Read Pope Leo’s Encyclical; It is a most scholarly and remarkable document.
—The Thespians will begin their series of sans souci Sociables early next month.
—The name of W. M. Cox was inadvertently omitted from the Roll of Honor last week.
—A silver napkin-ring has been found; the owner can have it by applying at the students’ office.
—Letters are received daily from the old students, renewing their subscriptions to the Scholastic.
—Father Zahm is determined that his Juniors shall have the best valladore and trapeze in the State.
—Send one dollar and a half, and the Notre Dame Scholastic will be sent to you for one year.	!
—Lost—from the classic city of South Bend—a black cat ! six weeks old, reported to have come from Kilkenny.
—The fine pair of globes in the class-room of the Professor of History are already exciting appreciative interest.
—The Boat Club spend part of their recreations in practicing for the race which is to take place on St. Edward’s day.
—Class notes will be read for the first time next week. All should make it a point to begin well, and continue in the same way.
—Bro. Alfred is now busy building a recreation hall for the Minims. Dimensions, fifty by thirty feet. Material, light-colored brick.
—The members of the Excelsior Baseball Club, assisted by Bro. Hugh, erected a new back-stop on their baseball grounds the past week.
—The competitions in the Preparatory Course will begin soon. By all means let us have as large a List of Excellence as possible.
—St. The Stanislaus Philopatrian Association held its first meeting for this session Sept. 9 th. A full report of election of officers, etc., will be given next week.
—To-morrow, the Feast of Our Lady of the Seven Dolors, the Hfissa Regia will be sung; page 33 of the Kyriale; and Vespers, page 199 of the Vesperal.
—The Juniors are reading in their refectory the “ History of the Catholic Church in the United States,” by De Courcy. The readers so far have given entire satisfaction.
—Work on the front extension has been recommenced. The carpenters had been waiting several days for the architect’s specifications and material for the cornice, all of which have since been received.
—A well-contested game of baseball was played on Wednesday, Sept. 17th, between the Mutuals and the Excelsiors, of the Junior Department. The Mutuals were the victors. Another game will be played next Wednesday.
—The following are the officers of the Thespian Association for this session: Director, Very Rev. W. Corby; President, J. F. Edwards; Vice-President, P. J. Hagan; Recording Secretary; J. B. Berteling; First Censor, W. J. Arnold; Second Censor, R. H. Russell.
—The lavatories when finished, will be the handsomest and most comfortable thing in the new College. The warm rooms and warm and cold water ad libitum will be a great improvement, and prove most acceptable on cold winter mornings after leaving the dormitories.
—The works which American Catholics take in hand are pushed on with great promptness. A short time ago the splendid University of Notre Dame, Indiana, was burned down. It has since been rebuilt, and studies were resumed on the 2d of September—Liverpool Catholic Times.
—The members of the elocution classes mean work, and say they are determined to surpass the members of former years in public speaking, essay writing, etc. Well, they can if they will, perhaps; but they will have to work hard, for many of the boys of former years stood high as speakers • and writers.
—Ninety-three ex-members of the Thespian Association —one of the six societies still flourishing at Notre Dame— are no w priests; seventy-four are lawyers; and twenty-seven are doctors. Others are numbered among the principal business men of the country. About thirty are either editors or engaged in writing for newspapers.
—Mr. John B. McGrath, of ’80, is among the latest arrivals. He has labored faithfully and well for Notre Dame during the past few months. Many flattering encomiums have been passed by the New York papers on the energy and enterprise which he displayed in getting up the highly successful picnic in Jones’ Wood. It was a select affair.
—Bro. Charles and Bro. Alfred, who have been directing the work on the building, each in his respective line, may now breathe more freely. The mental strain consequent on having to erect such a massive structure in so short a time must certainly have been very great, but they were equal to the task, and kept ahead of the architect and the contractors who furnished the materials.
—The following gymnasium structures were erected in .he Junior yard last week, under the supervision of Rev. J. A. Zahm, who always takes a lively interest in the welfare of.the Juniors, namely, ring-swings, turning-poles, a flying dutchman, a valadore, inclined parallel-bars, horizontalladders, and a new floor on their handball alley. The Juniors have now a handball and racket-alley.
—The gas-making apparatus is all placed in position, ready for work. The main fixtures are up, and ready, in the College, with the exception of burners, which can be attached in a day or two. The gas main is all laid, so that little delay need be expected. Matthews & Co., 75 Dearborn street, Chicago, are the contractors for the work, and Mr. Wm. Boyce is the foreman.
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt, through Mr. M. Moloney, of a valuable collection of specimens of gold ore, native gold, etc., from Rev,
■< R
I
4 ;i
4.

\
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC'.	43
Vice-President, C. Gorrick; Secretary, H. Snee; 1st Censor, T. Van Mourick; 2d Censor, G. Woodson; Librarian, J. Courtney. Masters Gordon, Rhodius and Guthrie were elected honorary members. After a few remarks by Bishop Dwenger and the President the meeting adjourned.
j —In answer to the inquiry of one of our esteemed ex-j changes, as to what becomes of Catholic college graduates, which may be found elsewhere in our paper, we publish the following statistics of our own College: Of the young men who have graduated in the classical and scientific courses at Notre Dame, about eighteen- per cent, are priests, twenty-seven per cent, are lawyers, eight per cent are educators, six per cent, are physicians, three per cent, are editors, seven per cent, are civil engineers, four per cent, are farmers, ten per cent, are business men. Of the others some are dead, several are now studying law, medicine, theology, etc. Two or three are doing nothing. When graduated one-fifth of the whole number were Protestants, nearly four-fifths Catholics, and one or two were Israelites. We do not know of even one who has lost the faith or joined a secret society, but we do know of many who by their example have become a shining light to .others.
Very Rev. Father General desires us to express publicly in the columns of ffie Scholastic his gratification at the signal mark of respect and esteem shown him by the well-known publisher, Mr. E. Steiger, in presenting him with two fine volumes of his publications, besides two elegant globes. The works are the Cyclopedia of Education and the Year Book of Education for 1879, nicely bound and illustrated. The books are especially valuable coming here now after the destruction of so many priceless books at the fire. The globes are among the finest we have ever seen, one celestial and the other terrestrial. They are beautiful ’ specimens of workmanship, as well as valuable auxiliaries in the studies of geography and astronomy. Very Rev. Father Sorin appreciates most highly the honor paid him by this presentation by Mr. Steiger, and the benefaction will be treasured with gratitude. Father Sorin has kindly presented these globes and books to the Lemonnier Library Association.
—We have lately been allowed to inspect the remarkable German coin lately presented to Very Rev. President Corby by Mr. Chaves of New Mexico. It is of silver, somewhat larger than our half-dollar, but not so thick. On the obverse it bears the effigy of Frederick the Third, Elector of Brandenburg, one of the lineal predecessors of the present kaiser, Wilhelm. The face is not an attractive one, and is enshrouded in the full-bottomed wig of the period. It bears the inscription: “ Frider. III. D. G. M. B. S.R.L ARC. & EL. or “Frederick the Third, by the grace of God, Marquis of Brandenburg, Archduke and Elector of the Holy Roman Empire.” On the reverse are the arms of Brandenburg, surmounted by the crown of Charlemagne, with the legend “ Moneta nova Brandent,” and the date “ 1690,” besides the fractional mark of value “ % ” below the arms, and the letters L. C. S. This coin is the first to begin the new museum in the department of numismatics, so abundantly supplied before the fire.
—The steam-fitters had a little drawback last week on account of having to wait for pipes, but the accommodating and gentlemanly director of the work, Mr. Otis Howes, prevented all inconvenience to the inmates of the College by making the connection with pipe of a smaller size, temporarily fitted. The chill days following the recent heavy fall of rain throughout the country made the steam welcome in the study-halls, and all were as comfortable as could be desired. The regular steam-pipe has since been received, and the work goes briskly on. The main pipes are very large; and as there are more than twice as many, and of a larger size than formerly, in the various rooms throughout the building, the capacity for heating up is more than ample. The system of heating adopted by Mr. Howes is the latest and most approved among experts, and is said to have given universal satisfaction wherever it has been introduced. The contract was given to the Messrs. John Davis & Co., of Chicago, for which firm Mr. Howes is the efficient superintendent. Messrs. A. F. & J. Irons, of the same city, have the pluming and gas fitting.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association (Juniors), one of the oldest and beat societies at Notre Dame, is at
>
i
J. M. Toohey, C. S. 0., who is now stationed at Lead City, Dakota Territory. Bros. Leander, Theodore and Mr. Jno. B. Berteling and W. H. Arnold have made valuable donations to the Museum, for which the Curator returns his sincere thanks.	-
—The Curator of the Museum received a letter from one of his old pupils the other day to the following effect: “ I have a collection of valuable specimens of various kinds of minerals, and a number of interesting fossils, which I can send you if you have any use for them.” As the Museum was entirely destroyed by fire, any donation of specimens of minerals, fossils, shells, stuffed animals, Indian relics, etc., will be of great value here, and will be most thankfully received.
/ —Father Stoffel returns thanks to the noble crowd of Juniors who on Wednesday afternoon renounced their usual sports and pastimes, in order to assist him in removing the books that had been saved from the College Library to the room in the new College which is now fitting up for the same. The building, of his own plan and execuiion, to which they had been taken after the fire, is now unoccupied; if any one wishes to rent it he can apply at Father Maher’s office.
i/ —Thanks to the heroic exertions of devoted students, quite a number of books in the College Library were saved from the fire. The Library has been started again, and still possesses some valuable and rare books. Amongst the latter we may mention a volume in folio, entitled “ Fatali-tium Fidel,” printed by Koberger, Nurenberg, in 1485, are specimen of erudition, typography and penmanship. Donations to the library are thankfully received by the librarian—Rev. F. Stoffel.
—The Juniors have again commenced to decorate their study-hall with flowers and plants of different species. W. J. McCarthy, one of their number, last week brought with him from his home in Booneville, Mo., a selection of choice plants. Of course the Junior prefects were very grateful for the gift, especially B. Lawrence, who takes a great interest in beautifying the study-hall with flowers, etc. Before the fire, it was said that the Juniors had the finest selection of plants at Notre Dame.
—The Columbians reorganized Sunday night. The following are the officers: Director, Very Rev. W. Corby; President, Prof. J. F. Edwards; Vice-President, S. J. Spalding ; Rec. Secretary, T. Simms; Cor. Secretary, G-. Sugg; Treasurer, D. Donohue; First Censor, M. Burns; Second Censor, R. Stewart; Sergeant-at-arms, T. Byrnes; Messrs. F. Bloom, G. Clarke, T. Campbell, R. Campbell, G. Donnelly, and P. Larkin were admitted to membership. Prof. J. A. Lyons was unanimously elected Hon. President.
—Notwithstanding the many little drawbacks incidental to the new building, everyone seemed cheerfully resigned ot submit to them for the short time they were to continue. Among the most disagreeable was undoubtedly the fact that the plumbers had not finished their work in the lavatories, but the fitting of pipes for warm and cold water for two or three hundred basins is no small job. When finished, the lavatories will be among the cosiest places in the new College, and equal to any first-class hotel for elegance and accommodation.
—The reorganization of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association took place Wednesday evening. The officers for the 1st session are: Very Rev. E. Sorin, Director; Rev. T. E. Walsh, Assistant-Director; Thos.McNamara,C. S. C., President; W. Coolbaugh, 1st Vice-President; H. Snee, 2d Vice-President; L. Spalding, Rec. Sec’y; G. Van Mourick, Cor. Sec’y; J. Reily, Treasurer; H. Kitz, Librarian; W. Hanavan, Orpheonic Branch; G. Woodson, 1st Censor; C. Gorrick, 2d Censor; Jos. Courtney, Sergeant-at-arms; T. Van Mourick, Marshal; F. Leach, 1st Monitor; C. Welty, 2d Monitor.
—A meeting of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Thursday evening, Sept. 11th, for the purpose of reorganization. Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, Very Rev. Father Granger and Rev. T. E. Walsh honored the meeting with their presence. After a few preliminary remarks from the chair, the election of officers took place, with the following result: Director, Very Rev. A. Granger; Assistant Director, Bro. Albert, C. S. C.; President, T. McNamara, C. S. 0.; 1st Vice-President, Daniel Taylor; 2d
44
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the same time a debating, dramatic and musical association. Its exercises include public reading, declamations, essays, debates, dramatic exercises and a moot court. The first meeting for this session was held Sept. 6th. The following were elected members, after having fulfilled the required conditions: Masters Jos. O’Neill, F. Quinn, Elmer Otis, J. Morgan, A. J. Burger, Jr., E. Sugg, R. E. O’Connor, A. Mergentheim, E. Orrick, C. Rietz, J. Schoby,. A. Payro, J. W. Guthrie. The 2nd meeting took place Sept. 9th. The following are the officers for this year: Very Rev. Father Corby, C. S. C., Director; Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., General Critic; Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., Assistant Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Moderator; Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter: W. J. McCarthy, 1st Vice-President; J. A. Gibbons, 2d Vice-Presi-j	dent; A. Rietz, Treasurer; A. Caren, Rec. Secretary; F.
;	Grever, Cor. Secretary; F. Phillips, Librarian; M. T. Burns,
!	Historian; F. Quinn, 1st Monitor; A. J. Burger, 2d Moni-
tor; W. Reitz, 1st Censor; G. Orr, 2d Censor; G. Foster, 1st Property Manager; E. Otis, 2d Property Manager; R. McCarthy, Sergeant-at.Arms; J. Morgan, Marshal; J. O’Neill, Prompter; E. Orrick, Clerk of the Moot Court. Profs. T. E. Howard and A. J. Stace will lecture before the members ‘	this year, and Hon. L. G. Tong will conduct the Moot
Court. The 3d regular meeting took place Sept. 16th. John Weitzel, C. Tinley and Jas. Browne, were elected members. Masters J. A. Gibbons and A. Caren read com;	positions. Declamations were delivered by W. J. Mc-
■	Carthy, Jos. O’Neil), E. Orrick and A. Mergentheim. The
;	public readers this week are W. McCarthy, A. Caren, A.
Reitz, F. Grever, W. Rietz, J. A. Gibbons, Jos. O’Neill, and F. Quinn.	•
’	—The following donations have been received by the
i	Lemonnier Library Association: From Wm. Arnold, of
;	Washington, D. C.: Herodotus, Translated, with Notes, and
Life of ihe Author, by Rev. William Beloe; Complete ;	Works of Flavius Josephus, translated by William Whis-
:	ton, A. M.; History of the Peloponnesian War, Translated
from the Greek of Thucydides, by William Smith, A. M.; The Works of Shakspeare, Edited by Charles Knight, elegantly bound. From S. T. Spalding, of Lebanon, Ky.: The .	History of the Protestant Relormation, by Most Rev. Arch-
i	bishop Spalding. From J. Berteling, oi Cincinnati, Ohio:
;	Goldsmith’s Poems and Vicar of Wakefield; Gulliver’s
!	famous Travels; Rome, its Ruler and its Institutions, by
;	Maguire; Romance of the Revolution; Cloister Legends,
■	by Agnes M. Stewart; Sick Calls, Rev. E. Price; Life of St.
■	Theresa, Written by Herself; Poetical Life of St. Joseph,
" Marie Josephine; Life of Blessed John Berchmans, Boero;
;	The Limerick Veteran, Stewart; Too Strange not to be
;	True, Fullerton; All For Jesus, Faber; Life of Dr. Doyle;
•	Boyhood of Great Painters; The Veil Withdrawn, Craven,
j	From George Donnelly, of Chicago: History of the Cath;	olic Church, Noethen; Life of Theophane Venard. From
Jos.Kelly,St.Louis,Mo.:TheApprentice; Choice of a State ;	of Life, Rossignoli; The King and The Cloister; The
‘	Holy House of Loretto, Archbishop Kenrick; Fabiola,
\	Cardinal Wiseman; Sins of the Tongue, Mgr. Landriot,
:	Archbishop of Rheims. From W. Cox, Columbus, Ohio:
Rosemary, Huntington; The Flemmings, by Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey. From Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka: The Uncivilized Races of the World, by Kev. J. Wood; Geology :	and Revelation, Molloy; German Classics, 7 vols. From
j	Mrs. Carrington, Oswego, New York: The Use of the
>	Barometer on Surveys and Reconnaissances, R. S. William-
■	son; Allison’s History of Europe irom the French Revolu-
:	. tion to the Restoration of the Bourbons, 4 vols.; Resources
i	and Prospects of America, Sir Morton Peto; Works of
’	Robert Burns, 2 vols.; Lives of the Irish Saints, Conyng-
ham; Lite Sketches of the Executive Officers of the State of N. Y., Boone and Cook; The Great Conflagration, Chicago ;	Past, Present and Future, Sheahan and Upton; Report
upon the Removal of Blossom Rock, San Francisco !	Harbor, R. S. Williamson; Dictionnaire National par M.
;	Bescherelle, 2 vols.; Dictionnaire des Verbes, par MM.
j	Bescherelle Freres, 2 vols.; Grammaire Nationale par M.
■	Bescherelle; Manuel des Conjugaisons, par MM. Bes-
i	cherelle Fibres; Memoires de Segur, 2 vols.; The Pan-
i	theon, Andrew Tooke. From Richard Russell, of Oshkosh,
।	Livingston’s Travels in Africa. From T. W. Simms, Le-
'	banon, Ky..- Discoveries Concerning Government, by Al-
gernon Sidney, 2 volt. From the Misses Bannon, of Boston: Memoir and Sermons of Rev. Father Baker; Poetical Works of John Dryden; Redemption a Poem by John D. Bryant, M. D.
BoH of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]	.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, M. T. Burns, T. J. Burns, J. B. Berteling, J. P. Brice, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, B. J. Claggett, B. Casey, J. Casey, Geo. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clemants, T. B. Campbell, R. S. Campbell, D. Donohue, Geo. Donnelly, H. Deehan, L. Demick, L. H. Duginger, H. B. Dulaney, J. Delaney, J. Carter, M. English, M. B. Falvey, J. P. Hagan, C. L. Hagan, J. Hal. loran, F. Humbert, G. Harris, A. Hayden, T. Hinderlang, D. Harrington, J. H. Jorden, J. P. Kinney, A. M. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, A. A. Lent, P. B. Larkin, W. B. McGorrisk, Ed. McGorrisk, J. J. McErlain, J. R. Marlette, p. F. McGuire, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, P. McCormick, E. Molitor, J. F. Mugg, C. F. Mueller, M. Maloney, J. McNamara, J. Malone, J. Norflett, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, J.-Perea, Geo. Pike, R. C. Russell, J. Ryan, F. Reeve, S. T. Spalding, Geo. Sugg, Thos. Simms, F. Summers, P. F. Shea, J. Strawn, L. Smith, W. Schofield, P. Terry, C. B. Van Dusen, P. H. Vogel, F. X. Wall, C. Whalen, A. F. Zahm, T. Zeien, C. Zarley, A J. Burger, F. W. Bloom.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. J. Burger, J. F. Brown, C. J. Brinkman, J. M. Boose, A. A. Burmeister, A A. Bodine, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, E. Croarkin. J. V. Cabel, L. W. Cogblin, H. B. Dunn, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, S. T. Dering, T. F. Flynn, G- C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, E. Gaines, J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, H. G. Guynn, F. Glade, J. A. Gibbons, A. Hintze, A. C. Hierb, J. A. Hermann, J. M. Kelly, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, R. L. Ie Bourgeois, J. A. Larkin, A. B. Mergentheim, F. McPhillips, C. McDermott, J. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, E. A. Otis, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, J. Ruppe, P. H. Rasche, F. J. Rettig, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. W. Start, J. W. Scanlan, C. A Tinley, C. H. Theile, J. W. Weitzel, A S. Rock, J. B. Wilder, F. C. Sheid.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. Taylor, F. .Mattes, J. S. Courtney, J. N. Courtney ,L. J. Young, C. J. Young, J. S. Garrity, G. E. Tourtillotte, W. J. Coolbaugh, G. J. Van Mourick, L. J. Spalding, C. J. Droste, J. C. Chaves, H. A. Kitz, C. L. Garrick, G. A Woodson, E. M. O’Donnell, A J. Kelly, H. C. Snee, E. A. Howard, J. Bannister, C. J. Welty, W. J. Hanavan, W. C. O’Maliy, J. E. Reilly, A. Schmueckle, J. H. Dwenger, J. M. Johnson, F. J. Garrity.
4^-
4
X A-

—The various literary societies will be organized this week.
—St. Joseph’s Cottage has been converted into a delightful infirmary.
—The Thursday drills of the vocal classes promise fine treats for the year to come.
—Lively efforts in the various Reading Classes indicate that there will be an active competition for the promised gold medal..
—The visit of Mrs. Thomas Hutchinson, of Chicago, is one to be especially remarked. She is a long-tried friend of the institution.
—Miss Ellie O’Connor, one of St. Mary’s graduates, accompanied her younger sister.to the Academy, and passed a few days with us.	.
—The visit of Mr. Matthew Cullen and his wife, o» Frisco, Utah Territory, is a notable feature of the week. He is a warm friend of the Sisters in Salt Lake.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger paid St. Mary’s a visit on the 12th instant. The young ladies were very grateful for the half a day of recreation which he so kindly granted them.

i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.]
i	—The visit of Mrs. Col. Hammond, of Renssalaer, Ind.,
at the opening of the scholastic session, was one among the most prized of the season. She is a graduate of 1860.
1	—There is a remarkably bright-looking class of Juniors
;	this year, and, with the Minims, they enjoy their rambles
i	through the orchard, and the red-cheeked apples to be
• found there.
-	—The visit of Mrs. Eby, of Kansas, and of Mrs. Steiner,
of Elkhart, with their little daughters, was greatly enjoyed by their friends of “ auld lang syne.” The two ladies were former pupils of St. Mary’s.
.	—On the morning of the 15th, Very Rev. Father General
opened his customary Monday morning instructions to the ■ members of the Confraternities. His subject may be given
•' as “The Majesty of Innocence.”
—There are several very good compositions which might be printed, and the authors not blush to see them in print, but it may be better to wait until the year is a little farther advanced before compositions are made public.
—The evening before her departure for the East, Mother • Superior addressed the young ladies in the study-hall with words of welcome and encouragement, and gave the Senior ■ pupils the privilege of taking their recreations in the beautiful “Rosary Circle.”
.	—The Grotto of Lourdes has been replaced by a simple
curtained alcove. The beautiful statue of Our Lady of Lourdes stands on an ornamented pillar, and the window back of the statue is shaded by purple hangings. The statue of Bernadette has been painted anew.
—In his late instruction, Very Rev. Father General said that Bernadette Soubirous was chosen to be the recipient of the great favors she enjoyed, because of her singular innocence. He said that the majesty of innocence had power to 1 make even strong men tremble. He mentioned a new French publication respecting this little peasant girl, and i promised its early translation into English.
;	—A fine photograph of His Holiness, Pope Leo XIII,
' arrived a few days ago from Rome. It was sent to one of the Sisters by a student of the American College, who had once been an orphan boy under her charge. The picture ” was touchingly directed “ To one of my greatest debtors, and whose debt shall never be forgotten.” This former 'i orphan boy had just won three medals in an examination made by the Holy Father.
—Rev. Father Kelly, C. S. C., on his late return from Ireland, presented to the Academy as an addition to the stock of specimens and curiosities, scientific and historical, a veritable “ Kilkenny cat.” To augment the value of the con. tribution, the donor intended to bring two; in fact, two embarked, but unfortunately, in the course of the voyage, one of them disappeared altogether, proving,, of “ the said party of the second.part,” a more complete annihilation than that of the famous Kilkenny cats we read of. The guardians of the Museum are much indebted to the giver.
—The instruction in Loretto on Monday morning was very beautiful, and appropriate to the day, which was the octave of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary. The Very Rev. speaker called the festival one of joy in an eminent degree. He enlarged on the joy imparted to the Three Persons of the adorale Trinity by the event commemorated, and that which it communicated to every period of time—the past, present and future. He said that until the Nativity of the Mother of our Redeemer, the world was shrouded in darkness, which her appearance dispelled.
,	—In the Academy parlor are four elegant photographs
J which often puzzle even smart visitors. They are those of the four Evangelists. For the benefit of such we will explain their meaning. The design is taken from , the 1st and 10th chapters of Ezechiel. The vision described
s by the prophet applies to the Gospel. In accordance, the - four Evangelists are represented as follows: St. Matthew, supported by a cherub; St. Mark, by a winged lion; St.
.	. Luke, by a winged ox, and St. John, the “Apostle of
Charity,” and the “Beloved Disciple,” as well as the
s fourth Evangelist, by an eagle.
'	—Very Rev. Father General presided at the Sunday
evening reunion in the study-hall, and told the young § ladies that he had some very pleasant news to communi
cate. Among other items, he announced that he should give two gold medals, one for reading, and one for penmanship. He remarked upon the facilities afforded here for securing success, and designated the qualifications which he asserted were sure to accompany proficiency in each of these branches. He desired to observe the progress made by the pupils in writing, and all promised to do themselves the honor of acceding to his request by writing to him each month, in order that he may himself be the judge of their improvement.
—Among our late visitors have been the Chevalier P. V. Hickey, editor of the Catholic Review, New York; Rev. Thos. F. Cashman, of St. Jarleth’s Chicago; Hon. Patrick Gibbons and family; M. P. O’Brien, and Miss M. Monahan, South Bend; Mr. D. E. Maloney and his bride. Elgin, Hl.; Mrs. Rosing, Mrs. H. S. Lewis, and Mrs. L. D. Cortright, Hyde Park, Ill.; Mr. B. Frankenberg, Mrs. Reinhardt, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. S. C. Buckles, and Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Colbom, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. J. O. Sterne, South Bend, Ind.; Miss Fannie Mannix, Niles Mich.; Miss Mary Mannix, South Bend; Mary McCarthy, Harrisburg, Ont.; Mr. and Mrs. G. S. Swank, Koanoke, Ind.; Mrs. Coleman, Elkhart, Ind.; Robert O’Brien, Sandusky, 0 ; D.E. Terry, Swan Lake, Ind.; Nettie Stanell, Nevada, O.; Mrs. Mary Pierce, South Bend; I. Fishburne, Joliet, Ill.,- Miss R. Bud, Laporte, Ind., Charles Orr, Stubenville, Ohio, Mr. and Mrs. M. Aster, Lupaz, Ind.; Mrs. H. Wilson, Nevada, 0.; Mrs. E. Ageter, Sandnsky, Ohio; Mrs. M. J. Dougherty, Galesburg,!!!.; M. E. Giddings, Miss Mamie Giddings, Mrs. Henry Ginz and son, Judge Turner, Mrs. Turner, Grace Denlow, Miss Ida Plato, Miss Mattie Shetland, South Bend; Mrs. Nelson Plato, Corpus Christi, Texas; Mr. and Mrs. James Conlon, Neenah, Wis.; Mr. Wm. Eisner, Mr. A. Reinhardt, Niles Mich.; D. J. Hubbard, Chicago; Mrs. J. Tweedale, Constantine. Mich.; Mr. Edward F. Kelly, Chicago; Mrs. E. T. Wells, Denver, Col.; Mr. David Slough, Elizabeth Slough, South Bend; Miss Emma Keyser, Plymouth, Ind.; Miss Mattie Hammond, Miss H. Mornawick, Mrs. George W. Reynolds, South Bend; J. P. Primley, Mr. and Mrs. P. S. Steiner, Miss Phenie Simonton, Mrs. A. D. Joy, Miss Carlotta Steiner, Elkhart; Mrs. M.R. Eby, and Miss Edna Eby, Coffeyville, Kansas; Z. L. Cooper, Niles Mich.; Mrs. S. E. Fox, South Bend; Mrs. Gavin, Lafayette, Ind.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Teresa KQlelea, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Annie Woodin, Sarah Hambleton, Annie Maloney, Rebecca Ewing.
1st Senior Class—Misses Annie Ryan, Angela Ewing, Mary Sullivan, Annie Cortright, Henrietta Rosing, Annie Cavenor, Catharine Ward, Catharine Hackett, Ellen Galen.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Angela Dillon. Catharine Lloyd, Annie McGrath. Jessie Herrick, Catharine Claffey.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Caroline Gall, Marie Dallas, Mabel Roys, Elizabeth Bruiser, Mary Feehan, Agnes Dillon.
2d Preparatory Class—Misses Dora Horner, Catharine Wall, Mary Solomon.
The following are the entrances in the Conservatory of Music from Sept. 1st to Sept. 13th: Misses Ellen Galen, Mary Dallas, Adella Gordon, Elise Dallas, Mary Fitzgerald, Edith Alden, Mary Feehan, Agnes Joyce. Mary McFadden, Margaret Piersol, Celestine Lemohty, Minnie Loeber, Mary Cox, Helen Hack-ley, lorantha Semmes, Julia Butts, Mary Sullivan, Elizabeth Callinan, Marv E. McGrath, Annie McGrath, Catherine Claffey, Mabel Hamilton, Mary Garrity, Elizabeth, Taylor, Emma Moxon, Helen Hackett, Isabella Hackett, Jennie Keys, Grace Taylor, Rose McCloskey, Mary Hutchinson, Eleanor Keenan, Angela Ewing, Angelique, Taylor, Mary Fitzgerald Jr., Catharine Harrison Catharine Ryan, Ellen Ryan, Stella Gillen, Minnie Carter, Eithna O’Connor, Angela Dillon, Agnes Dillon, Blanche Garrity, Mary Mitchell, Catherine Lloyd, Ellen Lloyd, Angela Watson, Martha Zimmerman, Clara Ginz, Jennie Barlow, Caroline Gall, Francis Murphy, Isabella Tweedale, Mable Keys, Elizabeth Bruiser, Lulu Hammond, Minnie Solomon, Dora Horner, Mary Campbell, Catharine Campbell, Annie Woodin, Sarah Purdy, Annie Cavenor, Louisa Neu, Teresa Killelea, Jennie Herrick, Clara, De Lapp, Effie Pearson, Catharine Dennelly, Jennie Fallman, Cecilia Gibbons, Caroline Banister, Lilie Lancaster, Catharine Lancaster, Mary Flemming, Mary Reedlinger, Mary Duncan, Clara Stitzel, Elizabeth ,’Julius, Mabel Wilkins, Annie Maloney, Mary Chirhart, Mary Bischoff, Kathleen Wall, K?^ Edelen, Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright,
I
46
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Matilda Kildaire, Elise Papin, Catharine Ward, Amanda McComb, Maud Casey. Harriet Buck, Ida Moll, Annie Leydon, Minnie Eisk, Mary Usselmann, Catharine Hackett, Ellen McKenzie, Flora Rheinhardt, M. Jeffries, Ellen Rasche, Rebecca Neteter, Lola Otto, Margaret Fishburne, Alice Farrel Caroline Orr, Mary Legnard, Kathleen Wells, Lulu Wells.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DBAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
2d Class—Miss Marie Dallas.
3d Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Catharine Wall, Lillie Lancaster, Catharine Lancaster, Mary Feehan.
PAINTING IN -WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Angela Ewing, Anna Cort-right, Angela Dillon.
3d Class—Misses Mary Sullivan, Catharine Campbell, Sarah Purdy, Julia Butts, Mary Loeber, Maud Casey.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Miss Rebecca Neteler.	,
2d Class—Missess Harriet Buck, Sarah Hambleton.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Clara Silverthorne, Teresa Killelea, Ellen McGrath, Annie Woodin, Eleanor Keenan, Annie Maloney, Rebecca Ewing, Sarah Hambleton. Rebecca Neteler. Mary Sullivan, Annie Cavenor, Catharine Ward, Annie Ryan, Catharine Hackett Annie Cortright, Henrietta Rosing, Harriet Buck, Angela Ewing, Catharine Quinn, Ellen Galen, Alice Farrell, Catharine Lloyd, Annie McGrath, Angela Dillon, Louisa Neu, Agnes Joyce, Edith Alden, Jessie Herrick, Mary Usselman, Lulu Otto, lorantha Semmes, Minna Loeber, Mary Fitzgerald, Catharine Donnelly, Caroline Bannister, Clara Stitzel, Clara De Lapp, Ollie Williams, Stella Gillen, Caroline Gall, Anna Keena. Isabella Tweedale, Bertha Julius, Marie Dallas, Mabel Roys, Kathleen Wells, Mary Bischoff, Elizabeth Bruiser, Teresa Zahm, Elizabeth Callinnan, Margaret Piersol, Mary Campbell, Ethna O’Connor, Jennie Keys, Frances Murphy, Ellen Hackley, Lillie Lancaster, Margaret Semmes, Mabel Hamilton, Ellen Kinzie, Charlotte Jefferay, Angelique Taylor, Virginia Cox, Lulu Hammond, Mary McFadden, Effle Pierson, Dora Homer, Jennie Fallman, Sarah Purdy. Catharine Edelen, Catharine Wall, Mary Solomon, Flora Rheinhardt. Anna Rash, Mary Mitchell, Mary Halloran, Emma Maxon, Effle Attwood.
Junior department.
Misses Mary Claffey. Catharine Feehan, Agnes Dillon, Catharine Campbell, Annie Orr, Julia Butts, Marie McN. Garrity, Celestine Lemontey, Sabina Semmes, Ellen Hackett, Maud Casey, Annie Leyden, Sophie Papin, Mary Fishburne, Maud Lewis, Elise Dallas, Angela Watson, Ellen Lloyd, Grace Taylor, Rose McCloskey. Catharine Harrison, Mary Hutchisnon, Ellen Ryan, Catharine Ryan, Minnie Carter, Cecilia Gibbons, Mary Paquette, Elizabeth Considine, Catharine Lancaster, Mary Flemming, Mary Duncan, Mary Reutlinger, Emma Joseph, Mary Chirhart, Jane Barlow, Bertha Legnard, Elise Papin, Ada Clarke, Ida Mall, Martha Zimmerman, Blanche Garrity, Clara Ginz, Minnie Fisk, Jsabella Hackett, Mary Fitzgerald, Mabel Wilkins, Lilly Robinson, Lilly Johnson, Virgina Orr, par excellence.
MISH
Keeps tile Best Line of CIGARS, TOBACCO and
SMOKERS’ ARTICLES
Tn the City.
AN ELEGANT LINE OF COSTUMES ALWAYS ON HAND.
ODD FELLOWS’ BLOCK,
. Soutli Bend, Ind. _	_
"Weeklv Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and mends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, op 70.
THE AVE NT A It I A, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.	-
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civil ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Hotels.
THE BOND HOUSE. a. McKay. Prop., Niles, Mich igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
THE MATTEBSON HOUSE, Comer of Was bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Watterson	-
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. FLYNN,Plain andTancy Book-bin er, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
QK CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic jCO Almanac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons, .	Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN	HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72) Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS E. CLIFFORD (of ’62). Attorney a
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 20 Broadway (coi. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING «fc HOGAN (D. J. Hogan, of ’74), Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts, Chicago, Ill.
JOHN E. NTcHTTG-H [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE ifc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm. W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MctSEAA-ME	Ni l Ji TLA RD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLIAM J. CLARKE (of ’74), Attorney at Law. Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No.. 67 S High St, Columbus, O.
JANIES A. O’REILLY—of ’69-Attorney at Law, 527 Court St., Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN X>. McCORM ACK-of 73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DANIEL E- 1IT EISA RD, Jr., (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Speeial attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich. .

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
47
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &e., for the reestablishing of this Library, which suffered much by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. IT. EDWARDS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
CT ZE WELBY.
All Kinds of Engraving' Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST I
' Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Kock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron. Leavenworth and Atchison ; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte. Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella. Monroe and Des Moines ; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Kailroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars fora double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Kestaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a minority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and tfie enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CAKS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a I
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your "Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs. Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE AKE AS FOLLOWS :	-
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, FL Wayne & Chicago R.Kds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & SL Louis K. K.
At La Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At Peoria, with P., P. & J.: P..L.&D.; LB.S W-; Ill.Midland; and T-. P. & W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R. R.
At West liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At GRINNELL, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D. M. & FL Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R. R.R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa: St Louis, Kan. City & Northern and C-, B. & Q.R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and SL Louis. Keokuk & N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, SL J. & C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R.Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen.
R. Rds.	" "
PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA,DES MOINES, COENCEL BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVES WORTH:
Tickets via this Line, known aa the “Great Rock Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your borne ticket ofllce, address,
JA. KIMBALL,	E.ST. JOHN,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Genl Tkt, and Paas’gr AgL,
'	-	Chicago, HL
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
CHAIN B UILDING.)
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1S42, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sobin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine, and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C., NotrejDame P. 0., Indiana.