Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlcturus; vlve quasi eras niorltrimis.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 25, 1879.
Number 21
To Columbus.
With trust in God, you leave the shores of Spain— Your friends are few—in fleet of three small sail That scarce can brave the unknown Western gale, To cross in search of land the wrathful main.
But ere much time elapse, your heart with pain
Is filled, caused by the sailors’ threat’ning rails. Soon, when the land appears, each person wails, And swears to you he faithful shall remain.
The fleet is moored; you first, with cross in hand, Do disembark; and as you touch the shore,
You plant the rood upon the new-born land;
And falling on your knees your God adore.
Then gazing on the crucifix so grand,
You name the lovely isle San Salvador. '
.	J. McD.
St. Laurent!^ College, Canada.
The Battle of Hastings.
You should read the morning account of the battle wherein Duke William, at the head'of his Normans, defeats king Harold, and his Anglo-Saxons, Oct. 14th, 1066, as it is related in the splendid work of Augustin Thierry, “ History of the Conquest of England by the Normans.”
“ On the spot which subsequently obtained the name of the Battle Field, by which it is known even at the present day, the Anglo-Saxons occupied a long chain of hills fortified by a rampart of posts and osier hurdles. On the night of Oct. 13th, William announced to his soldiers that to-morrow would be the day of battle.”
The Normans immediately prepared their arms; they then made their confessions and received the Sacraments.
The Saxons, on the other hand, passed their time in amusement and song, around their bivouac fires, emptying long horns of beer and wine.
In the morning the Bishop of Bayeux, son of the duke’s mother, celebrated Mass and blessed the army.
When the troops were about to move, William addressed them as follows: “Think of making a good fight, and staking everything on the result; for if we conquer them, we shall all be rich. What I gain, you gain; if I conquer, you conquer; if I take the country, you will enjoy it.”
“A Norman of the name of Taillefer urged his horse forward to the front of the battle, and entoned the chant, famous throughout Gaul, of Charlemagne and Roland. Whilst singing, he played with his sword, threw it high into the air and caught it in his right hand. The Normans repeated the burden of the song and cried: Bieu aide! Bieu aide!"
The attack began. William directed his archers to shoot their arrows into the air, so that they might fall beyond the rampart of the enemies’ camp. Many of the
English were wounded, principally in the face, in consequence of this method; Harold himself lost an eye by an arrow.
A sortie of the Anglo-Saxons at first threw the Normans into confusion. The rumor having spread that William was killed, the troops began to fly; but William threw himself into their midst, crying out: “Here I am! behold me: I am living yet, and I will conquer, with the help of God!”
The cavalry returned to the redoubts; they were again driven back. William then ordered a thousand' of the cavalry to advance, and to fly immediately. The Saxons, deceived by this pretended panic, hastily pursued them. But, at a certain distance, a body of Normans, concealed there on purpose, joined the fugitives, who at once faced about, and the English, taken by surprise, were attacked with lance and sword: the barriers were broken down. In the confusion of the fight, William’s horse was killed under him; King Harold and his two brothers were slain beside their standard, which was torn down, and in its place was raised the banner sent from Rome.
The remains of the English army, without leader and without a banner, kept together and prolonged the struggle till the close of day, and broke only at night.
At first William refused to allow the mother of Harold to perform the last rites for the vanquished king. He afterwards granted the permission, but it was some time before the body could be discovered. According to some authors, Harold was transferred to the Abbey of Waltham for burial, others say that he was interred on the sea-shore. More than half a century afterwards the Saxons believed that he was still living, and were in expectation of his return. In our days quite a number of the descendants of the Anglo-Saxons go every year to see a celebrated piece of tapestry in Bayeux, a simple representation of the invasion of the Normans and their victory.
“Immediately after his victory, William made a vow to build on the spot a convent under the invocation of the Holy Trinity and of St Martin, patron of warriors and of Gaul. This vow he kept, and the high altar of the new monastery was erected on the very spot where the standard of Harold had been planted and cut down. The limits of the outer walls were carried around the hill which the bravest of the English had covered with their bodies, and the entire space on which the various scenes of the struggle had been enacted became the property of this abbey, which was called, in the Norman tongue, Vabbaye de la Bataide. Monks from the great Convent of Marmou-tier, near Tours, took up their abode there, and gave themselves to prayer for the souls of all the combatants that had fallen on that day.	.
“It is said that when the first stones of the new edifice
‘i
326
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
were laid, the architects discovered that the water would certainly give out. They went to William with the disagreeable news. ‘Work on, work on,’ said the Conqueror, in a jovial tone; ‘for, if God spares my life, there will be more wine amongst the religious of la BataiUe than there can be found pure water in the best convent of Christendom.’ ” The ruins of this convent were discovered, some years ago. Several portions are still in a good state of preservation. The name of Harold's Crypt has been given to them, on the supposition that they are the remains of the basement of a church built by order of William on the spot where Harold had been mortally wounded during the battle.
Common-School Education in East India.
From the German Annals of the Holy Childhood, published in Aix-la-Chapelle, we learn the following particulars of school life in India, furnished by a missionary priest. He says that it was not his intention to write a comment upon a royal British high school or university, but of a school out in the country. The Indian resembles a bird that sings and builds his nest as his parent does, without ever altering it or excelling himself in it.
The priest first conducts us into an Indian school-room. It is distant about thirty paces from the missionary’s residence. You cannot enter it now, as all the seats are occupied. As a rule, the school-room is always as plain as it can be. A roof made of palm leaves, resting on poles, constitutes the hall. Most of the pupils generally sit in the shade of the trees in the immediate vicinity. There are no such things as slates, benches, chairs or desks. Nature supplies all that. Sand is strewn about and on this the exercises are written; sand also takes the place of the blackboard. Teacher as well as pupils sit, legs crosswise, on the sand.
Instruction commences at the first dawn of morn. The children come of their own accord, and very early. There is no playing truant. They never come late; on the contrary, each child emulates the other in trying to be first at class. They know that as they come sooner or later the reward or punishment depends upon it. And as they arrive, they seat themselves beside the others, thus forming a long row. The time of arrival designates the place each has to take. He or she who was first at the school is first in rank; and so on to the last. First of all, they repeat, in a singing voice, all they have learned, from the first letter of the alphabet to what they learned the day previous. No one is excepted in this repetition of their ABC, which, large or small as the children may be, they must repeat in three different chords, inscribing it at the same time in the sand. And all this goes on in the following manner. The one who has charge of the school calls out short A, singing it three times in three different chords, inscribing it in the sand and then obliterating it All the pupils repeat it, in the same tones, inscribe it in the sand, and obliterate it Then, in like manner, long A is sounded; all the letters of the alphabet are thus sung, engraved in the sand, and obliterated. After this some numbers, measures and weights and their signs, etc.; this constitutes an Indian’s education. Their progress is not very great in this style of schooling, as many a pupil has sang, engraved in the sand and expunged many an A and the next moment all has vanished. The repetitions last about an hour. After that the younger ones learn what they have written on their
palm leaves, while the pupils farther advanced busy themselves solving such arithmetical problems as the tutor had the day before prescribed for them. These problems are written in the sand and then wiped away, written again and wiped away again, and so on until about eight o’clock in the morning.
The tutor generally comes at eight o’clock. Often he comes from afar, as he does not always keep school in his own residence, but where it suits him best. He instantly commences his work by examining the duties the children have made; thereupon he gives each child a new lesson: this makes great trouble for the tutor, as he has to write on the palm leaf of each child what it has to learn. The lesson consists of the alphabet, and ciphers, reading and writing short sentences, and finally arithmetic. In solving a certain kind of problems the Indian writes them on the sand; solving another class of problems, he does not write, but works them mentally. This is all; history, geography, etc., are not taught to the country children. The child is given a leaf, on which its tutor has with his own hand written the alphabet; this the child is taught to pronounce, distinguish, and then write in the sand. So far, so good; it then receives another leaf, and another, and so on till it has received quite a number of leaves, which are at last bound up somewhat after the fashion of a book, which becomes thicker as the scholar gets smarter. The scholar carries this book continually till he or she knows all that is contained therein. It is then solemnly hung up at home in token of the ability of the proprietor. It can easily be perceived that in an Indian school there are as many classes and divisions as there are pupils. The young Indian is not extraordinarily ambitious; the cane, which, during the whole time does not leave the. teacher’s hand, helps more than anything else to advance the pupil in his studies. While the tutor imparts his instruction to each child individually, the others must repeat the duty of the day previous. Thereupon the teacher makes the whole school repeat all they have learned, and the cane is never lost sight of, but notes what is read or spoken incorrectly.
It may be asked when the children in India get anything to eat. The sun is already high in the heavens, and still the children are fasting. But be patient. So far we have seen the little Indians at their study; now we shall see them at breakfast. Every morning before breakfast a curious thing takes place. It was mentioned above that as the children come soon or late, their reward or punishment is meted in accordance. Before breakfast, the teacher inquires who was first, second, etc. The child that was first at the school receives a light stroke with the cane; the second, two strokes, a little harder; this means that it could have been at school earlier. Queer! Thus it goes on to the last child, each one receiving as many strokes as there are children ahead of him, and always harder and harder, so that many a pupil goes to breakfast with red eyes, swollen cheeks and hands. After these rewards, or rather punishments, are distributed, all the children, queer again! plant themselves in a long row before their tutor, and sing a song. As I am no poet, I can only give a translation of it in prose. It runs: “ On our feet since early morn, our morning prayers being finished, and ever since busy with our duties. After having partaken of some rest and food, we will, invigorated, return to thee, 0 beloved tutor. Glory be to God!” This they say every morning, their arms crossed on their breast, and in a neat and edify-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
327
ing manner. They then make a reverent bow before their tutor, go two by two to the well, there wash themselves and set off for home, singing and repeating their lessons till they come to the door of their home. It is worthy of notice that the East Indian never appears at table without having previously washed his teeth, mouth, hands, feet, etc., very carefully.
Breakfast being ended, the children rush to school as quick as they can, each one emulating the other in being the first on the school-ground; for all are conscious of the fact that the teacher will make his rounds, inquiring when each one came, and giving out his “strap-oil” according to each one’s measure. Instruction then commences. First they have penmanship exercises. All they knew in the morning had to be engraved into the sand, but now a queer operation takes place, which seems very odd indeed to those who never witnessed it before. First of all, the children have an iron pencil or stick, which is sharpened to a point at one end; next they make a circular incision in the thumbnail of the left hand; now each takes his palm leaf and engraves what the teacher dictates to each one individually, holding the pencil in his right hand and letting it glide up and down in the incision of the thumbnail with an expertness and rapidity that astounds the foreigner. And, besides, this kind of penmanship is economical; ink and paper are entirely unknown to the country children of India. Nay, they can thus write standing, sitting, or walking. The palm leaf is very smooth, about six inches broad, and from one to two feet in length. The iron pencil generally measures ten or twelve inches in length, sloping to a point at one end, and having on the other end a knife wherewith to cut their palm leaves.
Penmanship, as one of the rules of the school, lasts till noon—sometimes, however, till one and two o’clock in the afternoon. Then there is an interruption: the children get hungry, and crave food. But before they go, the teacher makes his rounds, as in the morning, inquiring when the children arrived after breakfast, gives them the strokes of his cane; but the thought of dinner makes the young folks forget the cane a little; they do not now mind the pain so much. Then they again sing a song, bow reverently, and depart by twos for home. In order to impress it well on the minds of his pupils, the teacher causes them to repeat after dinner all they have learned during the forenoon. In order to make sure, he goes to each child and examines what he can read, ho w he writes, and what he writes. Towards evening, he dictates the lesson the pupils must engrave the next morning upon the sand. Instruction for the day is now ended; the children, as in the morning and at noon, place themselves in a long row before the preceptor, sing the following song, make their bow, and depart for their homes: “ The evening has come; we now start for home. But at home, instead of play and gambols, we will, by the light of the lamp, look our lessons over, see what we have learned, and what we have not. To-morrow we shall all come again. Glory be to God!” In the Catholic villages, the children remain a while longer to learn the prayers. Such is a day of the school-life of our young Indians, says the missionary; but his letter is not quite ended.
The pagan teachers make use of divers forms of punishment; some of them are, in fact, truly heathen, and entirely unknown in Europe or America. In the Catholic schools, on the contrary, very few are punished, and that very mildly. But besides the cane and fist, which the .
heathen preceptor uses very freely, there are three other modes of punishment, viz.: the oukki, the rodanam, and the punishment for the lazy and idle.
The oukki punishment consists in this: the one who misses anything has to catch hold of his right ear with his left hand, and the left ear with the right hand; in this posture, the unfortunate child has to bow nearly to the ground as many times as he has missed. But especially on Saturday the tutor inflicts it more than on any other day of the week, as he notes down the mistakes and faults of the pupils through the whole week. In accordance to each one’s merit, it must bend. The first few times it goes passibly easy, but as the mistakes increase to thirty, forty, or fifty, it becomes painful, and even causes a very sore knee. Let the reader try it.
The rodanam is the punishment for the stubborn; it is, in fact, a little martyrdom. A rope is suspended from the roof of the school-house; the guilty one is suspended on it by-the hands; he hangs entirely free. Sometimes the heathen teacher goes so far as to place sharp points underneath the feet of the guilty one; nay, a little fire is sometimes built, and so the feet of the one suspended become scorched, if he sinks too low. The punishment for the idle is of divers forms. They are too barbaric to be mentioned. Suffice it to mention one. The idle or lazy pupil is not “kept in,” does not get “detention,” as in some places, or three days in the “ black hole,” as in Germany, but his feet are tied to his neck, and in this rather unpleasant posture the pupil is obliged, under further .penalty, to say his lessons. Civilized nations know nothing of this and other sorts of punishment which are made use of in India. India, let it be borne in mind, is not yet a civilized country. The Indian teacher has a heart hard as iron. The Catholic teachers in that country are just the contrary ; they make little use of punishment, and that in a very mild manner.
It may be asked, What are the free days of the Indians? The heathen children have Saturday afternoon, and the Catholics the afternoon of Saturday and all day Sunday. They have other free days also.
The Indian tutor’s income does not amount to much, and is not even paid him regularly. Per month, he receives half a franc, or ten cents, for each child; as the child grows older, he receives a little more. Sometimes he fixes the price himself, and takes for each child twelve or twenty francs, if he is lucky enough to get it. The office is not a paying one, and, in consequence, he never gets rich. His duty is not an onerous one. All he needs is to know how to read plainly, and write a legible hand. He can, in his leisure hours, perform the office of book-keeper for merchants.
P. F. S.
The Academy of the Arcadians.
The Academy of the Arcadians was founded at Borne in 1690, under the form of a democratic republic; its members adopted pastoral names, derived from various cantons of Greece, which, it is supposed, had been given them to cultivate.
The object of the society was to purge Italian literature of the absurdities and extravagances which had, for more than a century, disfigured it. Although nearly forgotten for a while it existed, however, till seventy-five years ago, but was divided into almost as many colonies as there were cities in Italy and still exists in Rome.
From its foundation the Academy had no fixed place
328	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
for its agricultural or literary meetings. At first it held its seances on Mount Janicule; shrrtly after it removed to Mount E-quiline in the Duke of Paganica’s forest. Compelled to seek a larger and more commodious place to satisfy the entreaties of the daily-increasing public who came to hear them, our academicians took up their quarters in the gardens of the palace formerly occupied by the celebrated Christine of Sweden. Two years afterwards they obtained from R tunce II, Duke of Parma, permission to transfer their meetings to the Farnese gardens. Up to this time the Arcadians preserved all the simplicity of their rustic manners, using for chairs the grass and stones; but now the Duke of Parma built them a sort of rural theatre, where for the space of six years they quietly held their exercises. Again, in 1699, they saw themselves obliged to seek another asylum. The Duke of Salviati offered one to which they retired, and they now believed their wanderings over, when the death of the Duke once more deprived them of their retreat. Their next patron was Prince Justinian us. In fine, Francois Maria Rispoli, prince of Cer-veteri, settled them on Mount Aventine, where, to accommodate the members of their general assemblies, they built a beautiful edifice in the form of an amphitheatre.
Wearied with wandering from garden to garden and from hill to hill, but above all, indignant at the cold welcome extended to the Muses, some of the members withdrew. This defection was not, however, its greatest misfortune. One of the chief members, the famous Gravina, having been consulted on the meaning of one of the laws of the society—a law dictated by himself,—and the majority having rejected his definition, he, to observe the law, sep-arated from all those who, he pretended, had transgressed it. Those members whose mind and taste he had formed, followed him, and, though but very few, had the pretension to announce themselves as the representatives of the Academy. The attempt appeared monstrous. Rome had never experienced a more stormy schism. The matter was given over to the lieutenant of the Apostolic Auditory Chamber for examination; his decision was ready, when, the minority, yielding to the instances of Cardinal Corsini, renounced their pretensions, abandoned the name they had taken of “ The New Academy,” and promised henceforward to meet under that of the Quirinal Academy.
As to the rest, the Arcadians never achieved their end. They succeeded in doing nothing else than perpetuating a taste for witticisms and other literary frivolities with which the Italians had for a long time been smitten. The Abbe Arnaud, in his history of the Arcadians, terminates his notice with these words: “ A Grecian philosopher compares the Athenians of his time to a reed instrument of music; take away the reed and nothing remains but wind.” “ There are very few of the Arcadians to whom this comparison is not applicable.” At the present day the Society is in a most flourishing condition and numbers among its members the most notable ecclesiastical and literary men of the Eternal City.
—As a gentleman was walking under the arcade of the Horticultural Gardens at Kensington, looking at the works of art displayed there, he came upon two well-dressed ladies examining a statuette of Andromeda labelled, “Executed in terra cotta.” “Executed in Terra Cotta,” says one; “where is that?” “I’m sure I don’t know,” returned the other; “ but I pity the poor girl, wherever it was!”
What Came Out of It.
One day as I sat by my window pensive and alone, watching the snow fall gently on the ground, I thought to myself that I should do something; and, then, again what was best for me to do ? I immediately arose, walked the floor a few minutes, stood up to my desk, took a text-book in my hand, looked into it and, revolving in my mind that the next lesson was not easy, laid it down without any further ceremony. Another thought then flashed across my mind, it was whether I was oppressed with any other special duty. None came to my mind, and I again paced the floor for quite a considerable portion of time. I knew I wanted to do something, but what that something was, was what I wanted to find out. I strove to reason with myself as becomes a rational creature, but then and there there was no reasoning in me: I could not briug my reasoning faculty (if I may so express myself) to bear on anything, which fact placed me in a most uncomfortable situation. That I had something to do was certain; that I wanted to do something was also certain, but to find out those somethings was the point at issue.
Finally I took up my pen, scribbled something—nonsensical, of course,—and said to myself, “Would it not be well to write a composition as I shall have to read one in class after a few days?” for it was then Christmas time. “A composition!” I thought to myself; “but now I have to choose a subject, and that is no easy matter.” I commenced to think and I continued to think: one appeared nice, but when entered upon, was immediately rejected; another was dealt with in like manner, and so on until I got impatient over the matter, and then said to myself with no little amount of earnestness: “ Shall I discuss a theme of a metaphysical, physical, or moral nature? This seemed a noble expression for such as I, and with a good deal of sobriety I began to consider the possibility of such an undertaking. Again I desisted, on thinking that there was no special need of my metaphysical, physical, or moral reasoning, and that the nineteenth century was not a reasonable but an unreasonable period, hence where was the use of my petty thinkings, since to think and say nothing was considered far better policy, if not more wise, than to think, and express that thinking by the usual medium, language. “ But what am I to do ? ” I gently said to Mr. Self; “is it not better to prepare my lessons and let the composition go until a more favorable moment ? I have, it is true, three days yet in which to do this business, and if I even prepare them now I shall have to look them over again before going to class, else I may be caught.”
I continued to follow my nonsensical notions until, finally, I began to think that I must, by all means, extricate myself from my then present condition. I resolved to do something, no matter what it was. The snow was yet gently falling and I thought that were I of a poetical turn of,mind I might write something on the “beautiful snow” that would no doubt make the editor of the Scholastic “ stare and gasp.” “ But, unhappy self! ” I thought, “ neither the muses nor any one else has infused such lofty ideas into my little mind.” But again I reflected and said to myself, “the poet is bom, not made,” or, as the Latins have it, poeta nascitur, non fit; and how do I know but I was born a poet—unknown to myself, of course; and that this power is lying dormant within me solely for want of cultivation. Poetry! what a name! Shall I attempt it?
I
' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	329
Shall I commence to write in numbers? I will; I can’t help it; I shall:
Arms and the man I sing, who forced by Fate, And haughty Juno’s unrelenting hate.
Pshaw! What am I thinking about? Those are the very first lines of Virgil’s JEneid. What a unmistakable blunder! Anyhow I don’t like that way of commencing a poem. Well, let me see; suppose I were to try again:
Ye woods, ye groves and shady dells, Where joy abounds and pleasure dwells; Where nature’s beauty walks a queen, . And hope and love abide unseen ;
Where artful zephyrs gently play—
.	The weary cheer at close of day;	’
Where streamlets lovely, as they pass along, • Enhance the sweetness of the linnet’s song;
Where winter’s blasts refuse to blow severe, Or check Sol’s brightness in its lingering there; Where grandeur’s stillness sits on his high throne, Surpassed by none in beauty, nor by none outshone.
• ’Tis there I love to rove, and rove all o’er, And fix my thoughts upon the distant shore Where none but good alone may enter in—
’	Whose souls are free from every stain or mark of sin ;
Where all is peace and love and bliss and joy, And naught but heavenly thoughts the mind employ. ‘ 0 man, proud man 1 ’ how well ’twould be for thee To steer your frail bark straight across the stormy sea Of life, of labor—pain—anxiety;
And fix your hope on Him who came to save—to call— The only begotten Son of God—our Lord, our all!
That’s enough of this. I don’t much like it. I might, perhaps, do better were I to try again. But—well, anyhow I’ll try once more:
The poet’s eye in a fine frenzy rolling
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven;
And, as imagination bodies forth
The form of things unknown, the poet’s pen
Turns them to shape, and gives to airy nothing A-----
Well, well; how foolish! how forgetful I am! This is some of Shakespeare’s nonsensical talk. Who but a man like him would ever think of giving to nothing a habitation and a name? A poet must surely be something greater than zero. He must create. He must make nothing out of something and something out of nothing. He must be a thaumaturgus.
I stopped here with poetry, and endeavored to convince myself that I was not born a poet, and that I would give b it up both now and forever, and turn my hand to something more congenial; hence I said to myself, with a little more / sobriety than before—for my senses were coming back: “I cannot write in numbers. I will turn my hand to something else, say prose. I will begin, but before I do I must say something on the rightful performance of this wonderful art. Everybody knows,” I continued, “ that to write is to write, but to write right is another thing. To write and not to write at the same time is worse than not to write at all. Now, before anyone commences to write he must have something to say. He must have some kind of ideas in his head, or some where thereabouts, in order to express them when he comes to that part of the busi, ness. Again, all know what an idea is, and the means by which it can be communicated; but there are different । kinds of communications, and it is to this point that special , attention must be given. When a person wishes to go North, he must not take a southern route; and when he
wishes to go E ist, he should not go to the West. In all ages and with all peoples there have been persons who lacked the proper mode of communicating their ideas. This can be proved both traditionally and historically. There have been individuals, too, in every age who, although they could give out many things, could never lake in any thing; and, in this respect, closely resembled the poor goose which has been pointed out as the most foolish of birds, not, I presume, from its awkward gait, but very likely from the fact that it babies away without waiting to see or think what it babbles about.”
But lest I myself should be likened to such an awful creature, I concluded with the firm determination never to get myself or find myself in such a state of mental perturbation (i. e., if I could help it), and also never to write on nothing again.	C.
A New Method of Preserving Bodies.
An officer of the University of Berlin, Mr. Wickerbeimer, has invented a new method of preserving dead bodies, which leaves the Egyptian process far in the background. Professors from many countries, flocking to his laboratory in the University for the purpose of examining his preparations, have wondered—for wonders they are, indeed, that are seen there. It is of little consequence to Mr. Wicker-heimer what comes to him first The botanist brings fruits and flowers, and their color and appearance are preserved, even to the smallest details. A corpse, although under the process of mortification, assumes again its fresh appearance, together with complete movability of the limbs With a skeleton, the natural movements of the human budy may be imitated. And whatever Mr. Wicker-heimer has prepared is indestructible. Neither air nor moisture changes the preparation in the least. A learned Government commission has been studying Mr. Wicker-heimer’s wonders ever since last March, the G»vern-ment being anxious to buy the revolutionizing mystery. The commission, however, cannot arrive at any decision. At the same time, Mr. Wickerbeimer is pressed from outside quarters to divulge the mystery.
For some days pist the commission has extmined a collection of one hundred preparations by Mr. Wick-rh< imer. In his laboratory may be seen to hang human limbs with and without flesh, which exhibit the movableness of the human organism. Eich finger makes its natural movements. ,The chest of a child is just as elastic as when it was living, and the complete process of breathing can be demonstrated by means of it. A snake can be coiled together in the same manner as the living animal. In a human larynx the process of swallowing can be shown. A fly, a gras-hopper, seem to live; each foot, each fibre is elastic and infrangible. Potatoes preserve the characteristic features of the species in extreme minuteness. But these are not the most wonderful. On a scaffold hang the lungs of different animals—of an antelope, an ape, a fox, and also the lungs of a deceased human being. They are completely contracted. Mr. Wickerbeimer, however, expands them, when they attain their natural size and, what is more wonderful, assume their natural color. The stomach of a beef, the intestines of an ape, everything, Mr. Wickerbeimer preserves with complete elasticity. A crab and a lobster appear as though they had risen from the deep. The skeleton of a crab exhibits the natural movements of the animal, betraying the mystery of the power of contraction.
330
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
And now let us consider Mr. Wickerheimer’s preparations in bottles. Specimens in alcohol stand in no comparison to them. Whether he preserves a piece of human skin, or part of an elephant’s trunk, or a citron, is all the same to him. They assume the natural color and appearance of the recent specimen. Of course professors will be out of their wits, and not one of them will teach any longer with the old rigid skeleton joined together with-wires, or the pale, almost dissolved preparations in spirits. The revolution which this invention must cause in the whole course of scientific instruction can be seen at once. Occasionally Mr. Wickerheimer prepares a corpse, which keeps the natural appearance and elasticity of the human body. Only quite recently he prepared in this way a corpse for its journey to Brazil, the home of the deceased.
J. B. B.
The Old Mission Church at Sandusky.
The old mission church at Sandusky, Ohio, is the last relic of the Wyandots, save the many almost unknown graves around it. This church was built by the Indians in 1821. It is situated on an elevation in a cemetery just out of the limits of Upper Sandusky, and is surrounded by a beautiful grove of oaks, which make it a cool retreat from the scorching rays of the summer sun. It is a stone building, about twenty by thirty feet, the longer dimension being from north to south. It was plastered with mud, and there yet remain a few fragments of plaster upon the walls. It is now almost a complete ruin; the roof has been almost entirely torn off by the storms of the many severe winters through which it has passed. The doors and windows have all decayed and have long since disappeared, while fragments of stone falling down have made them shapeless holes. All that remain of the floor are a few pieces of boards and logs.
On the northeast corner lie the remains of many noted chiefs, arranged in a row from north to south, with their heads to the west. Among them may be mentioned Crane and Pipe. Between the logs lies Spybuck, and it is stated by some that Roundhead, Tecumseh, and other great chiefs are buried here, but if this be the case, their graves are unknown. These were the most distinguished chiefs of the Wyandots. Their gravestones will soon be carried away piece by piece by the relic-seekers who visit the place; and if these depredations be continued, their burial places will soon be known only by tradition. .
On that knoll in the cemetery stands the quaint old chapel in which the Wyandots assembled to worship God, the last monument of that mighty tribe who filled the white men with terror. They, too, like their church, are almost obliterated, and soon all that shall be left of them will be the sad recollections of their unhappy fate. A.
Scientific Notes.
—The missionary expedition which is about to found a Jesuit mission in the Valley of the Zambesi has left for Africa.
—A colossal flower has been lately found in Sumatra forests which has an average diameter of thirty-three inches. It is called the Titanum.
—Two boys recently found in the gem district of Ceylon a blue sapphire weighing no less than two pounds in the rough, and valued at §50,000.
—As might have been expected, the Pekin Official Gazette
publishes a communication from a learned Chinese, showing that the “far speaking tube” was known in the Celestial Empire about nine hundred years ago, and was the invention of an inhabitant of Pekin.
—The eruption of mud at the foot of Mount JEtna continues, and a smoking lake of steadily increasing dimensions has been formed. Prof. Silvestri says there are two kinds of craters—one is in constant activity, emitting muddy and oily water, with exhalations of carbonic acid; the other intermittent, issuing with subterranean noises volumes of thicker mud.
—The Madras Hail states that great progress is being made in the cultivation of chinchona in the Wynaad, and that nearly a million plants have been taken there this year from the Neddiwuttum estate, and this is in addition to what is obtained from the extensive chinchona nurseries on all the coffee estates. All the poorer parts of these are being planted with chinchona, which is found to thrive well where coffee will not grow. •
—Prof. Joseph Tingley, of Indiana Asbury University, flings a bombshell into the scientific camp, in the shape of a denial that gravitation is the universal law, as Newton taught and the world has since believed. If it is, the Professor wants to know why we pass through the tails of comets and through groups' of meteors without feeling the collision or being affected by it. Instead of the axiom that gravitation is a universal law of matter, Prof. Tingley maintains that matter is para-gravitant, some bodies attracting and others repelling each other, even as different things are differently affected by the poles of a magnet, and varying their joint influence according to some other law than inversely as the square of the distance.
—Prof. Tyndall has communicated to the Royal Society the results of some further observations on infusions boiled in flasks afterwards hermetically sealed. He took with him to the Alps last summer 100 tubes of infusions—fifty containing turnip, and fifty containing cucumber infusion. They were prepared at the laboratory of the Royal Institution, and boiled for five minutes. Twenty flasks were broken in transit. The eighty remained pellucid, and the twenty were turbid with organism. A number of the eighty flasks had their ends opened in air in which sawdust had been shaken up, and all were soon turbid. Another sect were infected by water of a cascade derived from melting snow, and in three days were thickly charged with organisms. Another set were opened in pure air and remained transparent. These results confirm Professor Tyndall’s previous observations.
—The Journal of the National Indian Association for December contains an interesting account of a visit recently paid to Calcutta by Roma Bai, a young Mahratta lady, whose profound knowledge of Sanskrit literature and facility in original composition have given her a recognized position among modern pundits. She was born in Mysore in 1857, and began to learn Sanskrit with her mother’s help at the early age of 4 years. She has lately travelled, in company with a brother, throughout the length and breadth of the peninsula. At Calcutta she was welomed by a party of Bengali and English ladies, to whom she exhibited her extraordinary power of improvisation in stokas, or verses composed in accordance with the elaborate rules of Sanskrit poetry. In a set speech, also in Sanskrit, she showed that neither seclusion of women nor early marriage existed in the early days of Hindoo history.— Academy.
—The Roman correspondent of The Pilot writes:—A number of priests in Italy have received rewards or premiums at the Paris Expositions. The following are amongst those thus rewarded: The Abbe Zanotti, Director of the Glass Museum of Murano, near Venice, a silver medal for a collection of the best classical types; Abbe Francesco Faa di Bruno, honorable mention for his writing instrument for the blind; the Abbey of Monte Cassino, a gold medal for their publication, the Bibliotheca Cassinen-sis, etc.; the Mechtaris Armenians, of Venice, silver medal for works published by them; the Abbey of Monte Cassino a bronze medal for artistic paleographic works; Faa di Bruno for a new style of barometer; and Father Em-briaco, of the Dominican Convent of the Minerva, Rome, honorable mention for a regulator pendulum, etc., etc. The
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	331
latter has a great reputation for his admirable invention of water-clocks, one of which adorns the Gardens of the Pincio.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A new opera by Offenbach, “Madame Favart,” was produced on Dec. 29th iu Paris, and bids fair to equal in popularity any of his previous works.
—“ Whistler vs Rudkin ” is the title of an octavo monograph, written by Mr. Whistler himself, which is announced for publication immediately in London.
—“Les Bebes d’Helene” d’Habberton, “La Reine de Saba,” par B tylen Aldrich, and “ Le Predicateur Ambulant,” and “Le Maitre d’Ecole du Flat Creek” de M. E. Eggleston, are books just published at Paris.
—Gerome, gratified with the success of his “ Gladiators,” for which he received a medal, is modelling a group of Anacreon, with the infants, Love and Bacchus. This will be cut in marble, instead of being cast in bronze, like the “ Gladiators.”
—The German Emperor Maximilian II presented 308 years ago the “ Zimmermanns Zunft," (Guild of the Housecarpenters) at Spires, with a silver goblet. On account of the new anti-socialistic laws, this guild has been dissolved, and the goblet has been forfeited to the State.
—An important picture bv Meissonier, “ Les Cuirassiers ” —shown at the Universal Exhibition—has been bought by a Belgian amateur for §60,000. It was one of the conditions of purchase that the name of the purchaser should be unknown. “Les Cuirassiers” is a larger picture than Meissonier usually paints.
—London has lately lost one of the greatest book collectors it has ever had, in the person of Mr. Henrv Huth, a wealthy merchant. Though valuing his books most fondly, he was extremely kind and unselfish in placing them at the service of scholars, and but a few months ago lent a total stranger a volume which had cost him nearly a thousand pounds.
—In the course of a recent lecture on “ The Abuse of Books,” Mr. Frederick Harrison, the eminent essayist, said that he was inclined to think the most useful part of reading was to know what to avoid. The enormous multiplication of books is not favorable to the reading of the best. There never was a time during the last three hundred years when the difficulties in the way of making an efficient use of books were greater than to-day.
—Dr. Schliemann, the celebrated antiquarian, is said to have discovered in the excavations now carried on by him at Hissarlick, the ancient Troja, no less than four valuable treasures, one succeeding the other. The last discovered treasure, consisting of a bronze vase filled to the rim with ear-hangings and other trinkets of the purest gold, besides sixteen sword-blades of massive gold, and a large number of silver trinkets, is said to surpass in a considerable degree of value the three other treasures put together.
—An important scheme for a new dictionary of English Dramatic Literature, as exhaustive as Mr. Colliers, but more critical, seems to be coming to maturity. It is to be edited by Mr. Theodore Watts. The great names are to be made the subjects of long and elaborate notices, but the work is to be so complete as to serve also as a b>ok of reference. Several writers who have devoted themselves to English dramatic literature, including Mr. Swinburne, Mr. Gosse, Mr. J. Knight, Prof. Nichol, and others are likely to contribute articles.—Athenaeum.
—A collection of sonnets, under the title “ Treasury of English Sonnets,” will soon be published in London. It will contain upward of five hundred and fifty examples, many of them hitherto uncollected, and the book proper will embrace three hundred and fifty sonnets. To the notes and illustrations at the end of the volume have been relegated, either in illustration of the text or by wav of supplementary representation, upward of two hundred sonnets, which, if n -t so technically perfect as the others, are hardly less valuable and interesting. The editor has gone in every instance, it is said, to the original sources, or most authoritative texts.
—The exhibition of models for the statue of Rabelais, which is to be erected in the town of Tours as a pendant to the statue of Descartes, is now open in Ecole des Beaux-Arts. As many as ninety-two models have been sent in for competition; but most of these, according to a French critic, are either absui dly fantastic or hopelessly commonplace, only a few among the competitors having contrived to give a dignified aspect to the great French satirist. Only one portrait of Rabelais that is certainly authentic is known to exist; but this has not been followed with any great accuracy in any of the models, the sculptors apparently all following their own notions, and representing him as a saint or a devil according to their particular conception of his character.
—Saunders' Irish Daily Hews contains an article on the claims of the present Lady Wilde, nee Miss Eigee, to receive a pension as the widow of Sir Wm. Wilde, the Celtic antiquary. Lady Wilde, in early life, was the authoress of the celebrated article, Jacta est Aiea, which appeared in the number of the Hat ion, that was seized by the police in 1848. The Editor of the Nation at the lime was Mr. Charles Gavan Duffy. The memorialists in favor of a pension being granted toLidy Wilde comprised persons of every political shade, yet L ird Beaconsfield had refu-ed the claim for the pension. We are not surprised. No Irish writer will receive recognition from the English Government unless they laud England. Samuel Ferguson got his pension last year by writing a fawning poem that forever disgraces his reputation.
—The Roman correspondent of the Pilot writes:—The Roman Pontifical Academia of Archie dogy, under the direction of the illustrious Commendatore Giovanni Baitista De R 'Ssi, offers a gold medal for a work on the Roman Forum. Tne subject in full is: “The Roman Forum, its Monuments, its History, comprising the Via Sacra to the Arch of Titus, fr >m the classic period to the date of the present programme.” The literary men of all nations may compete for this prize, with the sole exception of the members, ordinary and honorary, ot the Academia. The papers, which are to be presented before the 31st of December, 1879, mav be written in the Latin, Italian, or French languages. No name is to be signed to them, but a motto, to be explained in a subsequent letter, is to be attached to them. It is dearly to be hoped that from these labors some clear and intelligent account of the various remains, now so confusing, may come forth.
—The private view of the Grosvenor Gallery Exhibition was appointed fen- Dec. 28th; the collection was opened to the public Dec. 30th. Besides 350 English water-color drawings, produced to within five years of the present date, the present aggregate includes seventy-six varied studies by Ingres, including pieces prepared for more than one of that master’s famous pictures, portraits, studies of the nude, draperies, extremities, and compositions. The water-color drawings comprise some of the best works of Messrs. Boyce, Burton, tne Brothers Fripp, S Palmer, and other cn >ice painters. The staple of the exhibition consists of about 800 old masters’ drawings in silver point, ink bistre, pencil, ctialk, charcoal, and colors. Italian, German, Flemish, Dutch, and French artists are very richly represented by works from the collections of English gentlemen. The Duke of Devonshire, the Earl of Warwick, and the Queen have generously contributed. One of the richest souces of loans in this case has been found at Christ Churcu College, Oxford, where for a great many years a very numerous collection of drawings by old masters has lain unnoticed since Gen. Guise bequ. athed them to the College. The masters most richly represented are Leonardo. Montegna, Correggio and Rembrandt. Not fewer than 100 works are ascribed to the last. “A large proportion ot these,” says the Athenaeum, “ are of incomparable merit.”
—In a case concerning the limits of certain land, the counsel on one side having remarked, with explanatory emphasis, “ We lie on this side, my lord,” and counsel on the other side having interposed with equal vehemence, “ We lie on this side, my lord,” the Lord Chancellor leaned backwards, and dryly observed, “If you lie on both sides, whom am I to believe ? ”
332
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Danie, January 25, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 IE*er Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Compulsory Education.
Men boast a great deal about liberty, but it is doubtful whether the majority of them rightly understand the meaning of the word. Years ago, Madame Roland exclaimed: “O Liberty! how many crimes are committed in thy name! ” In our day we might with as much reason say: “ 0 Liberty! what despotism is practiced in thy name! ” For when we take a glance at Governments claiming to be free and constitutional, and see the tyranny of the majority, we cannot but be astonished. When we examine the theories of men who boast of the advances towards freedom made by the people of the world, of men who are the great leaders in the “ progress ” of the world, we are forced to wonder at their inconsistency.
It is within the recollection of man when the glory of our people was that the State in nowise interfered with the rights of the family. The great duty of the State was simply to preserve the peace and order of society, leaving to each individual to act as he saw fit, so long as what he did interfered in nowise with the rights of other citizens. From the General Government down to the family circle, the rights of all were protected; and as the General Government did not interfere with the State Governments, and as the latter left the people of each country and city and township to regulate the local affairs of their precincts, so also none of these Governments ever dared to meddle with the rights of the family. It was then supposed that the State was freest in wich the rights of the rulers were more circumscribed and individual liberty was least interfered with. But our great freedom-shriekers have changed all this. The doctrine of the red republicans have gained ground here. This doctrine consists in this, that the State is the ruler of the family, and that the child does not belong to the parent but to the State, which is bound for his conduct, good or bad. This is the doctrine of the “ Reds,” provided they are in power. Some of the present rulers of Europe hare adopted the doctrine of,the “ Reds,” and to it they in
turn will stick, so long as they are the State—are in power. But neither the one party nor the other will accept the doctrine so long as they have not the control of the country Thus making compulsory education only subservient to their own ends. •
As we said above, this theory of the State being responsible for the child’s education has gained ground in the United States; it shows itself in the compulsory schoollaws which have been adopted by the Legislatures of many States and the endeavor made by men in the remainder of the States of the Union to have them adopted. These laws interfere directly with the rights of parents and families. It no longer leaves them free to act as they wish with their children; but it says to them “ You must do this or that.” Now it is all well enough to talk about the excellencies of education, but if you admit that the State has the right to interfere in the education of children, then you must admit that it has the right to train these children up for just such professions as the rulers see fit, and, having thus trained them up, to force them to adopt such trade or calling for life. If the State has the power to do the one, it has the power to do the other. The same arguments which favor the interference in education will apply to this interference in other matters, and what is this but Communism, which holds that the State should make all, rich and poor, work for the common good of the State?
It is argued that ignorance is the parent of crime. That this argument is false, all statistics prove. The poorer members of society do not send as many criminals to our jails, in proportion to their number, as do the wealthy. The rogues and rascals who swindle the Government and the people are not from the ranks of the ignorant, but are from the ranks of—well, we can’t say from the ranks of the learned, for the swindlers receive a mere secular education at the public schools. Crime is increased by the poor, heathen, demoralizing education given at public schools, from which religion and moral training have been banished.
Are not these laws unconstitutional? All men in the Republic are guaranteed by the Constitution the possession of their life, liberty and property. Is not the liberty of the parents of families abridged by these laws ? What of a man’s possessions does he value higher than his children ? Does not the ownership of the child belong to him that begot it? and may the State dispossess him of his property ?
The example of Prussia is, very inconsistently, adduced by the friends of these laws in their favor. What despotism is there upon earth comparable to that of Prussia, where no man is free, but is the mere property of the king, who may, and who does, send him to the army for so many years; of Prussia, where the press is gagged, and freedom of speech is unknown, and where there are thousands placed in confinement for conscience’ sake ? -
But we believe that most of the supporters of these laws are really in favor of them because they are to be used for proselytizing purposes. It is their hope, and it will happen, that many Catholic youths will, by the enforcement of these laws, lose their faith. But let these proselytizers reflect lest the results here will not be the same as their efforts in Italy. The Italian converts have ceased to be Catholic, but only to become infidels. Having no religious instruction or moral teaching, may not the result of this educational dodge of American proselytizers be to make infidels not only of Catholics but of their own sons ?
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	33£
The Philodemics’ Entertainment.
One of the most agreeable Entertainments at which we have had the pleasure of assisting during the present session, was given by the Philodemic Association on Thursday, January 16th. The exercises of the evening comprised a choice musical selection by the University Quartette, an essay on “Evolution,” remarkable for its quaintness and dry humor as much as for its learned scientific deductions; a gracefully-delivered declamation, and a deli^ bate in which were set forth arguments admired both for their close reasoning and oratorical finish. When we add that the whole programme was carried out in less than two hours, we think that no one need take offence if, as regards both quantity and quality, the Philodemics’ Enter-,	tainment is pronounced one worthy to be imitated by the
other societies of the Institution.
Mr. Coleman, the essayist of the evening, gave a lucid analysis of the atheistical theories predominant of the age, “Evolution and Darwinism,” characterizing the efforts of their devotees as futile in accounting for the creation, and as ridiculous when endeavoring to trace a progression of animal life from the lowest to the highest species. His “ missing link ” and his graphic account of how the monkey acquired his facial angle and lost his caudal appendage were received with merited applause. His suggestions as to the knowledge to be derived from the study of the facial angles of men were good.. It was a well-written and well-read essay.
m	Mr. Burger next declaimed “ Parrhasius.” He acquitted
himself creditably, showing great perception of the various sentiments of the poem, and faithfully portraying them. A good voice and becoming gestures enabled him to give with success this difficult declamation.
The event of the evening, the debate—“ Resolved, That Capital Punishment should be Abolished”—was opened by Mr. McCue, who began by styling capital punishment a relic of ancient barbarism still prevalent in an age of pretended advancement and civilization. He questioned the right of Government to take the life of man, as it did not receive that power from man, who, having no innate right to take his own life, cannot delegate that right to • others, nor from God, as it is directly opposed to His Commandments. He dwelt at length on the barbaric and degrading scences of an execution, and claimed that the penitentiarysystem was a superior method of punishing criminals, of deterring others, and was commendable for its humanity.
Mr. Hertzog, the first speaker on the negative, proceeded T immediately to establish the right of Government, claiming life to be no more a gift of God than the other liberties of man; that as the State can justly deprive one of per-sonal liberties, it likewise can deprive one of life; that in self-preservation the individual can take life, so also the State, when her safety demands it; that it alone was an adequate check to crime; that the penitentiaries do not reform criminals, but destroy the remaining virtues of the men subject to their rigorous duties and harsh treatment.
Mr. Murphy followed, corroborating the statements of his colleagues, claiming that life-imprisonment has a more salutary effect in preventing crime, as proved by the experience of those States that have tried both systems. He spoke also of the evil influence of the public execution, a.	which he stamped as a “ type of barbarism.” Though this
• ’	age should possess a love and veneration for aged customs
and institutions, it should not, he claimed, hesitate to
annul those customs and overthrow those institutions when circumstances rendered it advisable.
Mr. J. J. Quinn, the second speaker on the negative, closed the debate. He began by stating that it is one of the noblest privileges of man to profit by the knowledge and experience of his ancestors. He referred to the penal codes of former ages; and, developing still further the right of the State to take the life of its subjects, he cited Scriptural passages that the right is bestowed by God, that it was universally adopted, and that capital punishment is the only adequate punishment for heinous crimes. The penitentiary, he claimed, is ineffectual as a substitute, and instead of checking crime, it serves to incite men to it. So long as society exists, he hoped the death penalty would remain intact.
The speeches were all well prepared, copious in arguments properly developed and finished, and were delivered in that deliberative manner which tends to carry conviction, retaining the attention of the audience throughout. The Philodemics have done well in abolishing the use of manuscripts at their meetings and compelling the members to speak; by this means the Society surpasses the debates given for some years passt. The Entertainment reflects credit on all participating. Very Rev. Father Corby closed the evening by summing up the exercises, complimenting the young men on their success, but leaving the audience to decide the question individually.
Personal.
—	John A. Quinn, of ’65, is living in New York city.
—	Amos K. Clay, of ’64, is practicing law at Miamisburg Ohio.
—	Page Otero (Commercial), of ’75, is doing business in Chicago.
		Treon, of ’66, is practising medicine at Miamisburg, Ohio.
—	C. Adams (Commercial), of ’70, is prospering at Franklin, Ohio.
—	Hugo Hue (Commercial), of ’73, is in business at IndianapolisjT&d.
—John Dickey (Commercial), of ’65, is in business at Middletown, Ohio.
—	John L. Grace (Commercial), of ’74, is in business at St. Paul, Minnesota.
—	Homer C. Boardman (Commercial), of ’69, is doing well at Lyons, Iowa.
—	A. and L. Sievers (Commercial), of ’77, are in business with their father in Chicago.
—	T. Dechant (Commercial), of ’70, is in business and doing well at Franklin,. Ohio.
—	Wm. B. Smith (Commercial), of ’70, is running a large farm near Laporte, Ind. '
—	George Hug (Commercial), of ’71, is in the real-estate business, at Inllianapblis, Ind.
—	0. Shuey (Commercial), of ’60, is in the millihg business at Germantown, Ohio.
—	James Ryan (Commercial), of ’65, is secretary of a street railway in New Orleans, La.
—	Wm. L. Dechant, of ’78, is reading law with Messrs. Houk & McMahon, Dayton, Ohio.
—	E. Robinson, of ’75, from Portsmouth, is attending, the Ohio Medical College, Cincinnati.
—	Rev. P. Creighton, of ’54, is pastor of the Church of Our Lady of Victory, Brooklyn, New York.
—	W. D. Smith (Commercial), of ’76, is in the Freight Office of the U. S. & L. S. R. R., Chicago, Ill.
—M. T. Corby, of’65, was one of the soloists in an excellent parlor conceit recently given in Chicago.
334
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
/ —John G. Ewing, of ’78, recently took part in a literary and musical entertainment given at Lancaster, Ohio.
—We are told that Mr. John Coleman, of ’78, will leave Notre Dame for California, where he will start in life.
—Daniel Vaughan (Commercial), of ’63. is prospering in New Orleans, La. His address is No. 283 Dryades Street.
—Charles Parsons (Commercial), of ’72, is in the drygoods establishment of C. B. Parsons, Burlington, Iowa.
—George Ruger (Commercial), of ’73, and Charles Ruger (Commercial), of ’74, are in business at Lafayette, Ind.
—William Ryan, of ’65, has a large medical practice in New Orleans, La. His address is No. 15 Claiborne Street.
—George Gardner (Commercial), of ’61, is living at Hillsdale, Mich. We do not know in what business he is
engaged.	•
—John J. Fleming (Commercial), of ’69, is assistant cashier and book-keeper of the Slate National Bank, Burlington, Iowa.
—Rev. L. Baroux, of Ecorse, Mich., visited his old school-mate, Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., at Notre Dame, on the 21st.
—Wallace Dodge (Commercial), of ’67, is in business at Mishawaka, lud. His brother, William Dodge (Commercial), of ’77, is clerking for him.
—John C. Heizman (Commercial), of ’65, is a dealer in sheet-music, musical instruments, etc., at Reading, Pa. He is in parternship with his brother.
—By a letter from a common friend, we learn that Thos. M. O’Leary (Commercial), of ’75, is quite popular at Middletown, Ohio, where he is engaged in teaching. , / -blaster Jose Chaves, of the Minim Department, has given $50 to Very Rev. Father General for the erection of the new Chapel of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, Ind.
—Rev. John A. O’Connell went to Watertown, Wis., for a few days on account of the serious illness of Rev. P. J. Golovin. We are happy to learn that Father Colovin is now recovering.
—William P. Cotter, of ’64, is living at Bellefontaine, Ohio. He was for a time editor of the Logan County Gazette. We do not know whether he is still connected with the paper or not.
—Among the visitors during the past week were Mr. /and Mrs. G. H. Terpening, Fort Jarvis, N. Y.; Mrs. Dr. Corliss, Indianapolis; Mrs. E. D. Niles and Mrs. C. C. Niles, Mishawaka; Hon. H. D. Holt, Muskegon, Mich.; Albert Norris, Casenovia, Mich; and E. B. Piekenbrock, of Dubuque, Iowa.
Local Items.
—We had a severe snowstorm oh Sunday last.
—The usual monthly Conference was held last Wednesday.
—The monthly Bulletins will be made out next Wednesday morning.
—The semi-annual examinations begin Monday, the 27th of this month.
—The kind-hearted Minims regret that so many turkeys lost their lives for the banquet.
—There was some skating last Wednesday, but the snow interfered with it considerably.
—There has been considerable painting, calcimining, etc., done about the premises lately.	•
—The names of those on the various boards of examiners may be found in another column.
—It has been found necessary to use the snow-ploughs to make paths a number of times this winter.
—Next Wednesday, January 29th, is the Feast of St. Francis de Sales, the patron of Catholic journalists.
—With the ending of the coming semi-annual examinations, the second session of the scholastic year begins.
—It was a queer idea of that young fellow who went the whole way down a flight of stairs, sliding on his stomach.
y^-The members of the Modern History Class have exoempore discussions every week on some historical subject.
—Rev. P. J. Colovin, C. S. C., formally President at Notre Dame, has been quite sick, but is now happily recovering.
's. —Messrs. Frank and Thomas Cavanaugh, of Dubuque, Iowa, have contributed $5 for the erection of the Chapel of the Sacred Heart.
—The psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are those of the Common of Martyrs, page 40 of the Vesperal. The Missa de Angelis will be sung in the morning.
/— The 12th regular meeting of the St. E iward Columbian /Literary and Debating Club was held Tuesday, Jan. 7th. 1 Essays were read by Messrs. Stewart and Connolly.
—Of all the ocean lines, the Inman is undoubtedly the best; and of all the agents of the Inman Line, there is none more faithful and devoted than Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, Ind.
, —Some of the Seniors made a beautiful snow pyramid /on their Campus, for exercise, as they said, while the oth-• /ers were engaging in the mazes of the waltz in their recreation-hall.
—We have been told that the Philodemics will give another public debate shortly after Easter. When will the other Societies give us an Entertainment similar to that of last week ?
—The good order observed in the music-halls is due to the zeal and earnest care displayed at all times by that veteran Prefect, Bro. Charles, a man who has ever done his work well.
J —Three excellent essays on “Politeness” were read in uhe Senior study-hall—two on Wednesday morning, by '/Messrs. Hagan and Spalding, and another on Sunday, by
Mr. James Quinn,—at the request of Very Rev. President of the College.
—The sixth regular meeting of the St. Edward’s Literary ^Society was held Wednesday, Jan. 22d. Questions were answered by D. Clune and C. Johnson. An essay was read by L. Brehmer. Declamations were delivered by T. O'Hara and M. Buchmier.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1879 (fourth year), compiled by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., contains calendars and other information, with a good selection of entertaining reading. A spicy and witty annual. Price, 25 cents.— Western Home Journal.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1879 has been issued by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame, Ind. It is more replete with good things than ever. The selections are all taken from the Notre Dame Scholastic, whose literary standing is well established. Copies only 25 cents.—Catholic Columbian.
—The Juniors arranged two snow-forts on their Campus, and fired away at each other until their arms began to ache; while some of those who did not care to engage in the Y'mealthful exercise of snow balling remained in their playhall and amused themselves by playing games, while oth-
ers went skating.
—The banquet given by Very Rev. Father General to the Minims took place in their study-hall, which was tastefully fitted up and festooned wiih evergreens. Suspended from one of the arches we noticed a large and very fine picture of Very Rev. Father General, which was gracefully decorated for the occasion.
—The 11th regular meeting of the St. Edward Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Friday, Dec. 20th. Mr. Hickerson was elected a member. The debate—“Re-' solved that Free Trade is more beneficial to a country than Protection ”—then took place, with Mr. J. McEniry on the affirmative, and D. Donahoe on the negative.
—The 14th regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philo-demic Society was held Tuesday evening, Jan. 21st. A question was answered by Mr. M. J. McCue. Essays were read by Messrs. J. J. Coleman and A. J. Hertzog. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. A. B. Congar and Frank Cavanaugh. The criticism on the previous meeting was read by J. J. Shugrue.
—It is our wish that all those who do not receive the Scholastic regularly would notify us at once, so that we may see what the trouble is. We never stop our paper
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
335
without a reason; but sometimes, without our order or by some mistake, a name drops off the galley. When the Scholastic does not reach you within a reasonable time, notify us and we will see things righted.
—Very Rev. Father General received §50 for the Chapel of the Sacred Heart from one of his Minims last Thursday. It was intended as a New-Year’s gift to Very Rev. Father General, but by some mistake it did not reach here in time. The generous little donor, Master Jose Chaves, and also his good father, Mr. Felipe Chaves, of Belen, New Mexico, have the sincere thanks of Very Rev. Father General.
—Professor Lyons has compiled and published The Scholastic Annual and Almanac for 1879. It contains as-/fronomical and ecclesiastic calendars, information about rates of postage and other matters, and twenty-one selections from the pages of that brightest of college papers, the Notre Dame (Ind.) Scholastic. Is is now in its fourth year, and grows better as it grows older.—Catholic JiTirror.
—We are in receipt of the Scholastic Annual and Almanac. In its pages will be found everything usually to be found in a Catholic Family Almanac, and a large and well selected assortment of choice reading, culled from the col-■ umns of the Notre Dame Scholastic. The work has been carefully compiled by J. A. Lyons. It is published by the Notre Dame Printing Co., Notre Dame, Ind., at 25 cents.— Pittsburgh Catholic.
—The many readers of the Scholastic would be very much pleased to be treated to articles written by the contributors of former years. We would wish everyone to understand that the columns of this paper are open to the students of former years as much as they are to those now attending class. We are only too glad to receive contributors from old students, but, unhappily, from a press of business perhaps, students discontinue writing for us as soon as they leave Notre Dame. Which one of our old contributors will be the first to mail us an article?
—The Minims’ banquet on Wednesday was in fulfilment of a promise made to them by Very Rev. Father General, who told them, last year, that when the Department numbered fifty students he would give them a grand dinner. The fiftieth Minim, Master A. Van Mourick, of Detroit, Mich., arrived a short time ago, and the magnificent dinner of the 22d proved how faithfully Very Rev. Father General redeemed his promise. It is needless to add that the august patron of the Minim Department has the heartfelt thanks of his fifty little boys.
—The Scholastic Annual and Almanac for 1879, has just been issued. It is a compilation of all the best things which have appeared from time to time during the past year in that gem of college periodicals—the Notre Dame Scholastic. Prof. Lyons, the editor of the “Annual,” has succeeded admirably in the present volume. The extracts from the Scholastic could not have been made with greater care; and as for the predictions for 1879, Prof. Lyons’ venerable astrologer has outdone himself. One prediction, the fruition of which we shall await with breathless anxiety, is, that on the 28th of October “ people will die.” Altogether the “ Scholastic Annual ” is a model almanac. Price 25 cents. (Notre Dame, Ind., Scholastic Printing Office).—Boston Pilot.
—The Inter- Ocean says of the Scholastic Almanac: “ This handsome little annual is mostly compiled from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. The articles are, many of them, interesting, and have the merit of being carefully written. The author claims great perfection for his astrological predictions, and proudly points to 1878, and says: ‘If the Emperor of Russia had paid due attention to our prediction for the 5th of May, Constantinople would have fallen into his hands an easy prey.’ He further adds: ‘ Schurz and Evarts were also blind to their own interests. They did not resign on the 12th of August, as they were predicted to do; but they will be sorry for it in the sequel.’ Now if the author of the Scholastic had the power to compel a fulfilment of such valuable astrological prognostics a good many people would take stock in it.”
—The banquet promised by Very Rev. Father General to his young friends, the Minims, and to which they had been so anxiously looking forward, was given on Wednesday, Jan. 22d. It was certainly a very enjoyable reunion— nearly seventy persons were present. Among the invited
guests we noticed Very Rev. Fathers General and Provincial, Very Rev. President Corby; Rev. Fathers Walsh, Kelly, Baroux, of Detroit; and Rev. Father Friire; Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C.; Bros. Vincent, Edward, and Albert It is useless to say that the majority of those present did such ample justice to the good things set before them as only boys of their age can be expected to do. Remarks highly complimentary to the Minim Department were made by Very Rev. Eathers General and Provincial—the last mentioned being, for the first time on record, nearly surprised into a speech,—and also by the Very Rev President and Rev. Fathers Walsh and Kelly. After the enthusiasm of the youthful assembly had been still further stimulated by the present made by Very Rev. Father General of a magnificent seven-story frosted cake, the invited guests withdrew, leaving each and every Minim inwardly vowing that if it depended on his efforts the department would be doubled in less than a year.
Semi-Annual Examination, Jan. 27th, 1879.
Committees of Examination, under the General Supervision of Very Rev. Wm. Corby, President.
Classical Department—Rev. T. E. Walsh presiding; Rev. N. Stoffel, Secretary; Rev. J. M. Toohey, Rev. J. A. O’Connell, Rev. M. P. Fallize, Rev. P. Franciscus; Mr. A Morrissy, C. S. C., Mr. P. Hurth, C. S. C.; Prof. Lyons, Prof. Howard.
Scientific Department—Rev. J. A. Zahm presiding; Mr. D. J. Hagerty, Secretary; Prof. Howard, Prof. Ivers, Prof. Stace.
Commercial Department—Rev. C. Kelly presiding; Rev. M. Robinson; Prof. Schnurrer, Prof. Ivers, Prof. Lyons, Prof. Tong, Prof. Edwards; Bro. Pnilip Neri, Secretary.
Preparatory Department—Mr. J. Rogers, C. S. C., presiding; Mr. J. Scherer, C. S. C., Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C.; Bro. Alexander, Secretary; Bro. Leander, Bro. Hugh, Bro. Theodore, Bro. Albert, Bro. John de Matha.
Board of Modern Languages—Rev. M. P. Fallize'pre-siding; Mr. P. Kollop, C. S. C., Secretary; Mr. M. Lauth, C. S. C., Mr. J. Scherer, C. S. C.
Board of Fine Arts—Rev. E. Lilly presiding; Rev. J. Frfire, Rev. M. P. Fallize; Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., Secretary; Mr. M. Lauth, C. S. C.; Bro. Basil, Bro. Leopold, Bro. Albert.
RoH of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduce given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
senior department.
R. M. Anderson, J. F. Arentz, M. W. Bannon, James P. Brice, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, J. Buchanan, Thos. Barrett, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Congar, T. F. Conlan, W. H. Claggett, Geo. Cochrane, F. W. Cavanaugh, J. M. Carroll, Ed Calkins, Geo. Crawford, E. Dempsey, P. J. Dougherty, L. J. Evers, M. English, J. Eberhart, A. J. Hertzog, J. P. Hagan, M. J. Hogan, J. T. Harrison, Louis Horn, C. W. Hickerson, J. Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, A. M. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, M. F. Laughlin, P. B. Larkin, W. J. Murphy, M. J. McCue, J. McGrath, W. McGorrisk, M. McEniry, J. McErlain, W. O’Brien, L. Proctor, Geo. Palmer, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, W. Ryan, M. Reilly, M. Roughan, S. T. Spalding, Geo. Sugg, R. D. Stewart, T. W. Simms, John Simms, P. Shea, T. 8. Summers, A. Scheiber, F. C. Smith, C. L. Stuckey, Ed Scheiferle, A Schaufert, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, F. X. Wall.
junior department.
T. G. Arthur, M. J. Burns, J. G. Brady, F. Becker, C. J. Brinkman, J. C. Casey, G. C. Castanedo, H. E. Cannoli, T. F. Clarke, G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, R L. French, M. L. Foote, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, F. T. Gaffney, H. M. Haerly, J. Haney, J. Kurz, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, A. S. Manning, J. F. Mug, H. G. Niles, G. A. Orr, C. F. Rietz, J. M. Scanlan, G. M. Schnull, J. K. Schoby, C. P. Van Mourick, F. T. McGrath, E. G. Sugg, F. E. Weisert, R. T. Williams, E. S. Walter, A. F. Zahm, R. E. O’Connor, M. E. Herrick, J. Kennedy, J. A. Lumley, J. A. O’Donnell, A 8. Rock.
By mistake, the name of Master Walter D. Cannon was omitted from the Roll of Honor week before last	-
336
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC;.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, 0. Farrelly, J. J. Gordon, P. S. Fitzgerald, F. X. Campau, H. McDonald, C. McGrath, F. Brady, N. Nelson, W. A. Coghlin, W. Reinhardt, G. Knight, J. J. Inderrieden, J. M. Courtney, G. J. Rhodius, J. H. McGrath, C. L. Garrick, W. A. McDevitt, C. B. Crowe, G. Woodson, A. Hartrath, A. Chirhart, E. Howard, C. Long, H. Snee, H. Kitz, H. Bachmann, L. Young, J. Chaves, F. Garrity, J. Garrity, A. Rheinboldt, A. Schmiiekle, A. Van Mourick, C. Young, A. Campau, J. A. Crowe, E. Chirhart, J. Inderrieden, C. J. Welty, P. Campau, F. Farrelly, W. O’Malley, T. McGrath.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
W. Connolly, R. Keenan, R. O’Brien, M. T. Burns, P. J. Hagan, W. H. Claggett, J. R. Kelly, T J. Byrnes, P. H. Vogel, J. J. McErlain, J. Delaney, T. W. Simms, F. Wall, D. Donahoe, W. J. Murphy, A. Scheiber. M. McEniry, F. Williams, T. Hale, P. - Shea, K. L. Scanlan, J. Kurz, J. Nelson, B. Casey, J. G. Brady, E. Murphy, J. Seeger, J. N. Osher, F. Phillips, A. Zahm, J. W. Gnthrie, J. Boose, H. Niles, D. Reidy, J. Kennedy. R. Williams, J. L. Morgan, C. Rietz, F. Glade, J. Gibbons, F. Gaffney, H. Fenner, G. Schnull, A. Caren, F. Clarke, W. Cannon, J. Devitt, H. Devitt, J. Mug, F. Scheid, C. Van Mourick, H. Guynn, L. Dimick, J. Haney, J. Harrison, W. O’Brien, E. Calkins, F. Bell, C. Walsh, J. Shugrue, W. B. McGorrisk, M. Foote, T. Arthur.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. M. Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius, J. S. Courtney, 0. Farrelly, J. J. Inderrieden, W. Coghlin, F. P. Brady, C. McGrath, N. Nelson, G. Knight, A. Hartrath, C. L. Garrick, W. Reinhardt, A. Chirhart, J. Gordon, H. Snee, J. A. Crowe, F. Parsons, H. Kitz, J. Inderrieden, J. Chaves, F. Garrity, J. Garrity, A. Schmiiekle, E. Howard.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—J. Boose, T. Arthur, R. Pleins, A. Schaufert, T. Mackey ; Grammar—H. Fenner, J. M. Boose, M. Foote, J. Lumley, J. W. Guthrie, W. D. Cannon, P. Crowley, A. Rietz, F. Phillips, J. Nelson, J. Byrne, J. Thompson; Geography—C. Rietz, F. Phillips, A. Caren, J. McErlain ; Arithmetic —B. A. Casey, J. McErlain ; Algebra—R. O’Brien, F. Grever, J. Kurz, AL McEniry, T. Hale; Latin—W. O'Brien, W. McGorrisk, M. J. Burns, W. Connolly, J. Gibbons, P. Crowley, A. Zahm, R. Stewart, C. Walsh.
The following names should have appeared on the List of Excellence last week—Book-Keeping: J. Eerrman, K. Scanlan, J. M. Byrne, J. Q. Johnson, T. Summers, F. Grever, M. English, S. Terry, R. P. Mayer, C. Stuckey, J. Brady, W. Rietz, A. Rietz, A. S. Rock, J. Thompson, T. Hale, T. Conlan.

A Generous Gift.
Columbia City, Ind., Jan. 8,1879.
Ven. Sister Superior:—If it meet with your views and kind approbation, I will donate a fine gold medal at the end of the scholastic year. The medal is to be presented to the young lady who can show best record in politenees in the Senior Department. Hoping to hear from you soon,
~X_I remain yours in Christ,
H.	A. Hellhake.
St. Mary’s Academy, in the name of the Senior Department, has gratefully accepted the generous proposition of Rev. Father Hellhake, and hope on the Commencement Day the highly appreciated reward will be bestowed on the most meritorious candidate by the hand of the Rev. donor himself, after a perusal of the record.
—The examination of Music classes began on Monday.
—Doubtless the plain sewing and all kinds of fancywork will pass a strict examination by competent judges— the lady visitors.
—Sunday the Feast of the Holy Name of Jesus, the Blessed Sacrament was exposed after High Mass and until six in the evening.
—At the academic reunion the reading was very interesting. Miss Adelaide Kirchner read “Unseen, yet Seen,” by Eleanor C. Donnelly; Miss Gall, “ Der reichste Fuist” by Justinus Kerner; and Miss Ellen Mulligan, a selection from English Literature.
—Among the visitors during the week were Mr. and Mrs. Terpening, Fort Jarvis, New York; Mrs. Agnes Phillips, Mishawaka; Mr. E. Simonds, Toledo, Ohio; Mr. C. J. Hamilton, Muskegon, Mich.; Mr. C. J. Hancock, Hillsdale, Mich; the Misses Rourke, F. Bauers, N. Bauers, F. Bauers, Mr. J. Wilson, Chicago; Mrs. French, Michigan City; Mrs. Clark, Chicago; Mrs. Baldwin, Miss Oechter-ing, Mishawaka; Mrs. C. McBan, Niles; Mr. F. Duitston, Niles, Mich.
—“Music as an Art” was the subject of this month’s Lecture, read before the St. Cecilian Society. The topics touched upon were: The end of all the arts, particularly the musical art; the ideal; the material from which composers draw their inspirations; faculties necessary to genius; Music as a “thing of beauty”; its marvellous powers of suggestion; its affinity for union with the more definite form of imagination (Poetry); its dramatic element—were described. The workings of Art among the people naturally led to the Orchestra, and a full description of the instruments used at the present day followed; the quality of tone; clefs; and extent of tone; series of the families of stringed, reed, brass, and wood instruments, were explained, as preliminary knowledge necessary to young amateurs in order to a belter understanding of the works of the great masters, and an insight to their thoughts, given expression by these almost human voices.
RoH of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Ruasell, Sarah Moran, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly.
1st Sr. Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthom, Mary Danaher, Eleanor Keenan, Zod Papin, Anna Maloney, Anna Woodin, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Birch, Mary Casey, Rebecca Neteler.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Catharine Danaher, Genevieve Winston, Jessie Grover, Angela Ewing, Philomena Wolford, Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Adella Gordon, Ellen Galen, Mary Brown, Annie Ryan, Mary Plattenbnrg, Catharine Ward, Mary Suliivan, Grace Glasser, Harriet Buck, Agnes Brown, Annie Cav-enor, Alice Farrell, Catharine Lloyd, Elizabeth Walsh, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Anna Cortright, Henrietta Rosing, Lucie Chilton, Alicia Donelan, Annie Jones, Ella Mulligan, Mary Usselman, Margaret Carroll.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Feehan, Alma Moe, Marie Dallas, Kathleen Wells, Ellena Thomas, Mary Mullen, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelie, Mary English, Caroline Hopkins.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Anna Herman, Mary Campbell, Ollie Williams, Linda Fox, Caroline Gall, Annie Orr, Laura French Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Johanna Baroux, Mary Ludwig, Mary Hake, Teresa Zahm, Della McKerlie.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Nellie McGrath, Clara Sil-verthorn, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie.
3d Class—Misses Jessie Grover, 100 par excellence; Emma Shaw, Grace Glasser, Angela Ewing, Mary Brown, Ella Jffulli-gan, Mary Casey, Elizabeth Kirchner, Zod Papin, Mary Mulligan, Mary Birch.
2d Div.—Misses Genevieve Winston, Louise Leu, Anna Cav-enor, Anna Cortright, Annie Maloney, 100; Linda Fox Julia Butts, Laura French, Agnes Brown, Mary Campbell. ’
4th Class—Misses Catharine Lloyd, Annie Jones, Mary English, Mary Feehan, Johanna Baroux, Adella McKerlie Annie Orr.
2d Div.—Misses Ella Cavanagh, Margaret Cleghorn, Elise Dallas, Elize Papin, Sophie Papin, Addie Clarke, Mary Hake.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner Re-becca Neteler.	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	337
i
2d Class—Misses Annie Herman, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon, Martha Pampel, Elizabeth Walsh, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Caroline Gall, Minna Loeber, Mary Ludwig, Ina Capelie, Alice Farrell, Louisa Kelly, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Alice Donelan, Mary Fitzgerald, Catharine Ward, Agnes Joyce, Adelaide Bisby, Sarah Purdy, Martha Zimmerman, Julia Butts, Maud Casey, Alice Esmer.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Clara Silverthom, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.	.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman. Genevieve Welsh.
- 3d. Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Sullivan, Louisa Neu.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell, Mary Campbell, Annie McGrath, Emma Lange, Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh.
. 4th Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Mary Mullen, Jessie Grover, Annie Cortright, Anna Maloney, Marie Dallas.
2d Drv.—Misses Genevieve Winston. Caroline Gall, Mary English. Kathleen Wells, Catharine Campbell.
5th Class—Misses Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, Emma Shaw, Annie Woodin, Della McKerlie, Emma Gerrish.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Sarah Purdy, Minna Loeber, Catharine Danaher, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Mulligan. Agnes Joyce.	.
6th Class—Misses Alma Moe, Martha Pampel, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Eleanor Thomas, Annie Jones, Mary Casey, Agnes Brown, Rebecca Neteler, Ellen Mulligan, Julia Wells.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Maud Casey, Annie Orr, Johanna Baroux, Agnes McKinnis, Mary Feehan, Lucie Chilton, Catharine Lloyd, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas.	_
7th Class—Misses Caroline Hopkins, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Mary Ryan, Grace Glasser, Catharine Ward, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary McFadden, Bridget Kelly.
8th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Blanche Garrity.
9th Class—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Julia Butts, Emma Fisk, Manuelita Chaves, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Alice King.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser,'Clara Silverthorn.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, M. Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Hackett, Clara Silverthorn, Adelaide Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Alice Farrell, Annie Woodin, Aurelia Mulhall.
5th Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary and Annie McGrath, Sarah Purdy, Della McKerlie, Angela Ewing, Henrietta Hearsey, Emma Shaw, Mary Sullivan, Annie Jones, Mary English, Mary Birch, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Casey, Charlotte Van Namee, Zoe Papin, Leota Buck.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
honorably mentioned in the
1st Class—Misses Emma Lange, Genevieve Welsh, Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
3d Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Teresa Killelea, Ellena Thomas, Mary Sullivan, E'izabeth Schwass, Angela Dillon, Laura French, Mary Campbell, Angela Ewing, Sophie Papin, Julia Butts, Catharine Campbell, Minna Loeber, Maud Casey, Ellen Mulligan.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses Sarah Hambleton, Marie Plattenburg, Agnes Joyce, Jessie Grover.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
3d Class—Miss Harriet Buck.
GENERAL DRAWING CLAS3.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Teresa Zahm, Martha Pampel, Caroline Gall, Ollie Williams, Sarah Purdy, Anna Cortright, Henrietta Rosing, Agnes Brown, Mary Campbell, Lucie Chilton, Grace Glasser, Alice Donelan, Mary Hake, Margaret Carroll, Annie Herrman, Catharine Danaher, Elizabeth Walsh, Catharine Hackett, Jessie Grover, Margaret Whealan, Ina Capelle, Minna Loeber, Adelaide Bisby, Annie Jones, Caroline Hopkins, Mary English, Alma Moe.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Catharine Campbell, Linda Fox, Maud Casey, Laura French, Julia Butts, Ellen Mulligan, Agnes McKinnis, Annie
Orr, Mary McFadden, Jane McGrath, Margaret Cleghorn, Marie McN. Garrity, Ellen Lloyd, Mary Lyons, Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Bridget Haney, Martha Zimmerman, Mary Poquette, Mary Feehan, Alice Esmer, Elizabeth Consadine, Alice King, Elise Lavoie, Minnie Fisk.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct' deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
’	Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthoni, Rebecea Neteler, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Zoe Papin, Mary Casey, Emma Lange, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Harriet Buck, Elizabeth Schwass, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Jessie Grover, Annie Cavenor, Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary Usselman, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Adelaide Geiser, Angela Dillon, Emma Gerrish, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Annie Jones, Margaret Carrol], Minna Loeber, Alma Moe, Ina Capelle, Kathleen Wells, Mary English, Maiy Fitzgerald, Adelaide Bisby, Caroline Hopkins, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig, Mary Hake, Adella McKerlie, Mary Campbell, Annie Herrman, Teresa Zahm, Ella Cavanagh, par excellence. Misses Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Annie Woodin, Mary Birch, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Mullen, Genevieve Welch, Ellena Thomas, Louisa Neu, Martha Pampel.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Mary Mulligan, Ellen Mulligan, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Agnes McKinnis, landa Fox, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Charlotte Van Namee, Maud Casey, Mary McFadden, Julia Wells, Ada Clarke, Mary Chirhart, Jessie Pampel, Mary Paquette, Julia Cleary, Ease Lavoie, Amelia Morris, Elise Papin, Elizabeth Consadine, Minnie Fisk, Manuelita Chaves, Jane McGrath, Alice Esmer, Alice King, par excellence. Misses Laura French, Catharine Campbell.
Junior Prep.—Misses Maud Casey, Julia Wells, Mary Lyons, Catharine Campbell, Jnlia Butts, Sophie Papin, Marie McN. Garrity, Ellen Lloyd, Mary McFadden.
1st Jr.—Misses Mary Chirhart, Mary Paquette, Julia Cleary, Elise Lavoie, Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel, Elise Papin, Amelia Morris, Elizabeth Consadine, Bridget Haney.
NOW READY.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1879
PtyCE 2J CTS.
Table of Contents:
Introduction,
Our Predictions for 1878, •Astrological Predictions for
1879,
Names and Titles, Days of Obligation, Days of Abstinence, Eclipses for 1879, Movable Feasts, Rates of Postage, An Astronomical Myth, Calendars, Astronomical and
Ecclesiastical, Wild Flowers, The Court of Charlemagne,
To Signor Gregori,
Good Books, Some Curious Words, The Catechism, Purple Days, Napoleon on the Divinity of
Christ, Mutability, An Evening Picture, The Papacy, The Things of God, Grasshoppers, Shall it Ever be Thus? Wolves in the Street, Hens and Their Poetical
At O ur Wit’s End, Our Alma Mater, Indirect Egotism, Address,
Days, Berenice’s Hair.
J. A. LYONS, Notre Dame, Ind.
338
- - -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN FOR 1879.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
The Bust will be printed every day during the year to come Its purpose and method will be the same as in the past: To present all the news in a readable shape, and to tell the truth though the heavens fall.
The Sun has been, is, and will continue to be independent of everybody and everything save the Truth and its own convictions of duty. That is the only kind of policy which an honest newspaper need have. That is the policy which has won for this newspaper the confidence and friendship of a wider constituency than was ever enjoyed by any other American Journal.
The Sun is the newspaper for the people. It is not for the rich man,against the poor man, or for the poor man against the rich man but it seeks to do equal justice to all interests in the community. It is not the organ of any person, class, sect or party. There need be no mystery about its loves and hates. It is for the honest man against the rogues every time. It is for for honest Democrat as against the dishonest Republican, and for the honest Republican as against the dishonest Democrat. It does not take its cue from the utterances of any politician or political organization. It gives its support unreservedly when men or measures are in agreement with the Constitution and with the principles upon which this Republic was founded for the people. Whenever the Constitution and constitutional principles are violated—as in the outrageous conspiracy of 1876, by which a man not elected was placed in the President’s office, where he still remains—it speaks out for the right. That is The Sun’s idea of independence. In this respect there will be no change in its programme for 1879.	•
The Sun has fairly earned the hearty hatred of rascals, frauds and humbugs of all sorts and sizes. It hopes to deserve that hatred not less in the year 1879, than in 1878,1877, or any year gone by. The Sun will continue to shine on the wicked with unmitigated brightness.
While the lessons of the past should be constantly kept before the people, The Sun does not propose to make itself in 1879 a magazine of ancient history. It is printed for the men and women of to-day, whose concern is chiefly with the affairs of to day. It has both the disposition and the ability to afford its readers the promptest, fullest, and most accurate intelligence of whatever in the wide world is worth attention. To this end the resources belonging to well-established prosperity will be liberally employed.
The present disjointed condition of parties in this country, and the uncertainty of the future, lend an extraordinary significance to the events of the coming year. The discussions of the press, the debates and acts of Congress, and the movements of the leaders in every section of the Republic will have a direct bearing on the Presidential election of 1880—an event which must be regarded with the most anxious interest by every patriotic American, whatever his political ideas or allegiance. To these elements of interest may be added the probability that the Democrats will control both houses of Congress, the increasing feebleness of the fraudulent Administration, and the spread and strengthening everywhere of a healthy abhorrence of fraud in any form. To present with accuracy and clearness the exact situation in each of its varying phases, and to expound, according to its well-known methods, the principles that should guide us through the labyrinth, will be an important part of The Bun’s work for 1879.
We have the means of making The Sun, as a political, a literary and a general newspaper, more entertaining and more useful than ever before ; and we mean to apply them freely.
Our rates of subscription remain unchanged. For the Daily Sun, a four page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, (postpaid) is 55 cents a month, or §6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eightpage sheet of fifty-six columns, the price is 65 cents a month, or §7.70 a year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished separately at §1.20 a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is §1 a year, postage paid. For clubs of ten sending §10 we will send an extra copy free. Address
I.	W. ENGLAND,
Publisher of The Sun, New York City
fa-Tzriotc shickey
PBOPBIETOB OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BPS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mmy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
...	. .	P. SHICKEY.
Union Depo", West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive Loave*
Kansas City - nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, D.., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line..............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommqdatlon.....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J.	C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.

University of Notre Dame,
Founded 1842*
Chartered 1844
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to sei cure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which'will be mailed on application to	"
Very Eev. W. Corby, C.S.C., Pres’t.,
Notre Daw, Ind
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN	-
Watches, Clocks,
-A-ItTZD
All Kinds
of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	339
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12’33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	19 00 pm 1 15 “ 12 35 am 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		tPacific Express.	^Evening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Niles and. Son.tlx Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m.
“ N. Dame— 8 52 -	6 38 “
Ar. Nilee— 9 25 “	715 “
’GOING SOUTH.
Gv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50p.m.	6.00 am.
Rochester,		12.53 a.m.	1012 “	255 “	745 u
Alliance,		3.10 “	1250 p.m.	535 “	1100 “
Orrville, .»••••••••••••	4.50 “	226 “	713 “	
Mansfield, 			7.00 “	440 “	920 “	&11 w
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,...		9.25 “	7.35 “	11 25 “	
Lima,		10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a m.	
Ft. Wayne,		1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,		350 “	246 am.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest ; route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, :	Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and
' the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
! is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona! Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all । points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its |	GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
I Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, * Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior i Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Free;	■ port, and all points via Freeport. Its
:	CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
;	Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing be-
•	tween Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park,
' Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
’	New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5
« State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, 5 cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-
62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stbnnett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
GOING EAST.
		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No 8, . Mail.
Chicago,			9.10 p.m.	8.30 am.	5.15 p.m.	
Plvmouth			2.46'AM.	11.48 “	8.55 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6 55 “	2.25 pm.	11.30 “	
Lima,			8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest 				10.10 “	5.27 “	233 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “	
Crestline		... .Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 A.M.	605 a.m.
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,.					2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11 an “
Rochester				6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	
Pittsburgh,..		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m	3.30’
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Httsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. R. MYERS, &. P & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MA.T1L STEAMERS.
NEW YORE to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITYOF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to	JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, ’ oct5-tf	LaPorte, Indiana.

340	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. mOCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RT-tilJ R J. STACK [of ’64], County Surveyor for /A St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weeklv Newspapers.
TELE CA.THOMC COLUMBIAN, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, of ’70.
Th fg AVE M A. TITA., a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Satnrdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop., Niles, Mich-_L igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*.	Plain and Fancy Book-bind-
er, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
0p^ CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
-	’	Mishawaka, Ind.
Qp? CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic XiO Almanac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BRONVN & HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJNTVrWG!- & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Bl.
JOTT1V I?. McHUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61)
Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Lid.
McBRIDE & NTTUIL.A.TITT (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WLLLIAM J. CL ARKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Booms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JA.MTE9 A.. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Beading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN T>. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attomey at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of ’70), Circuit
Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Michigan.	eep 14-ly
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend follows:
]	GOING EAST.
! 2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 pm; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 a m: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m. '
4 50and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 4=3 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Lanorte 3 35 a m, Chicago
6 am.	.	*
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4 50 pm, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a m; Chicago. 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.				
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3.20 p. m. 2.30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ 1.07 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 9.13 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Arbive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -- - - - LaPorte, - - -- - - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - - - - - Plymouth, - - - - - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - - - - - - Peru, - - - -- - Bunker Hill, - - - - - Kokomo Junction, - - - - - - Tipton,- - - - - - - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - - - - - - Cincinnati, - - -- - - Louisville, - - - - -	Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12.40 p.m 1.17 “ 2.00 “ 2.22 “ 3 00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 p.m. 8.55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 1212 a.m. 1240 “ 1.01 “ 1 35 “ 216 ” 3 02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS, Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“	“ 9.00 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 noon. RETURNING Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 n.m. “	“	1119 “	- - •	“	“ 2 55a.m. WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES				
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in. Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
H^Berths SI.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis. Gen’l. Manager, Indianapolis
C. POLACK,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DEALER IN
Cigars and Tobaccos,
and a full line of smoker’s articles. Sole Agents for the Golumbiis 5 ct. Cigars, warranted mm. made and Long Havanna filled. Give them a trial.
Sign of the Big Indian.
61 Washington St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA