
* " ?	- - • ' .
Notre Dame Scholastic.
JOisce quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume IX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 11, 1876.
Number 28.
The following was received too late for our last week’s issue.
Ode to a Neighboring Editor.
CONSTRUCTED ON STRICT MATHEMATICAL PRINCIPLES, BY A PARTY AGGRIEVED.
I.
I’ve a quiet disposition, but the unprovoked attack Which you made upon me recently deserves an answer back. For talent conversational you’ve made me out a bear, .
And you’ve robbed me of the summers that have thinned my . golden hair.
ir.
Don’t think your predecessors’ luck to share, and bid defiance, Their assailants did not have recourse to mathematic science. Their “ Gunnery arid Projectiles ” they neglected every one;
But I’ve got a little formula for loading up a gun.
in.
And before I kill you utterly, and put you out of pain, I’ll make you roar for mercy—that you’ll never do’t again. I’ll heap inflictions on you with accelerating force, And put you through the tortures of a mathematic course.
iv.
I’ll pass a polar axis through your centre of gyration, - And then reduce to lowest terms your “ personal equation,”
I’ll differentiate you from your forehead to your toes, And wind a helicoid around your editorial nose.
■	• v.'
In a hyperbolic spiral your ideas I’ll entangle, With a radius vector varying inversely as your angle. PH make you square the circle and triangulate the sphere, And dismiss you on a tangent, with a cissoid in your ear.
VI.
Your horizontal parallax I’ll next proceed to find
With a double-barrelled telescope and levelling-rod combined;
I’ll then project you upwards with intensifying speed Till the cosine of your altitude is very small indeed.
VII.
Beyond the reach of gravity you’ll find yourself at last, With asteroids annoying you and comets whirling past;
■ And never to your earthly home serenely will you float, Till the infinite hyperbola shall meet its asymptote.
’	vm.
Then beware 1—it is the season now for maples to be tapped;
■ Learn wisdom from the sugar camp, before your strength is sapped;
For though you estimate yourself the heavier man to be, Yet I’ve the greater modulus of elasticitee.
—The Harvard Art Club propose to raise a fund with which to found a travelling scholarship, the holder of it “to visit a place or places within the region of ancient culture, to undertake such investigation or exploration as may be practical,” and to keep a journal, which may be published at the discrection of the club.
Janizaries.
The author of the “ Decline and Fall of the Boman Em- • pire” says: “In the year 1389, the Turkish cimeter was • wielded by Amurath I, the son of Orchan and the brother of Soliman. He subdued the whole province of Romania . or Thrace, from the Hellespont to mount Heemus and the verge of the capital. He marched against the Sclavonian. nations between the Danube and the Adriatic—the Bulgarians, Servians, Bosnians, and Albanians—and their war- ’ like tribes, who had so often insulted the majesty of the empire, were repeatedly broken by his destructive inroads; The natives of the soli have been distinguished in every age by their hardiness of mind and body, and they were converted, by a prudent institution, into the firmest and . most faithful supporters of Ottoman greatness. The vizier < of Amurath reminded his sovereign that according to the Mohammedan law he was entitled to a fifth part of the ? spoil and the captives, and that the duty might easily be-, levied if vigilant officers were stationed at Gallipolis to watch the passage, and to select for his use the stoutest. and most beautiful of the Christian youth. The > advice • was followed; the edict was proclaimed; and many thousands of the European captives were educated in the Mohammedan religion and arms, and the new militia was: consecrated and named by a celebrated dervish. Standing in the front of their ranks, he stretched the sleeve of his:: gown over the head of the foremost soldier, and his blessing was delivered in these words—‘ Let them be called ; Janizaries (yingi cheri, or new soldiers;) may their conn- ■. tenances be ever bright; their hand victorious; their ‘ swords keen; may their spear always hang over the heads ■ of their enemies; and, wheresoever they go, may they re- • turn with a white face.’ White and black face are common and proverbial expressions of praise and reproach in the " Turkish language.”	•
Such was the origin of that haughty and turbulent body : of troops, the dread of surrounding nations and sometimes . of the sultans themselves. They were kept up by contin- -ual additions from the sultan’s share of the captives, and by : recruits raised every five years, from the sons of Christian • subjects. Parties of soldiers, each under a chief, and each ’ accompanied by a particular firman, went from village to . village. Wheresoever they went, the men of the village » with their sons were assembled, and the leader of the troops took away all the boys over the age of seven who ■ were distinguished for their beauty, strength, activity or r talent, and carried them to the court of the grand seignior, r Of the captives taken in war by the pachas and presented i to the sultan, there were Poles, Bohemians, Russians, Itai-. ians and Germans. These captives were divided into two r classes. Those who composed the one class were sent to..
J
THE NO TEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Natolia, where they were instructed in Mussulman belief and taught agriculture; or they were kept at the seraglio, where they became hewers of wood and carriers of water, and were employed at work on the public buildings, in the boats, etc., always under the supervision of an overseer, who compelled them to work.
The other class of captives, those in whom talent was discernible, were taken to one of the four seraglios, where they were clothed in linen or in cloth of Saloniki, with cloth caps. Every morning teachers came to them and until evening taught them to read and write. Those who were accustomed to work became Janizaries, while the others became spahis or high officers of the court. Both classes were kept under the strictest discipline, but more especially was this the case with the former, who were made to suffer from privation of food, drink and comfortable clothing, and exercised in shooting the bow and arquebus through the day. At night they were penned up in a long room, and none were allowed to remain out. Those who were kept'in the seraglios were also under strict surveillance, and made to devote all their time to study.
Every three years the grand seignior permitted them to leave the seraglio. Those who chose to remain, ascended according to their age, in the immediate service of their master, from chamber to chamber, until they reached one of the four great posts of the innermost chamber. Those who took advantage of the permission e’ntered one of the four first corps of the paid spahis, who were in the immediate service of the sultan.
This corps was in many instances the prop which sustained the empire. Without them the battle of Varia, the foundation of Ottoman greatness, would not have been won. At Cassova, the Rumelian and Natolian troops had already fled before the devil, as they called John Hunniades, yet the Janizaries were victorious. They boasted that they never fled in battle, and their enemies confessed to this. In all accounts they were called the nerve and sinew of the Ottoman army.
■ The whole body of the Janizaries was divided into four squadrons, each containing a certain number of ortas, each orta being supposed to have one hundred men. The whole number of them has been calculated to have been one hundred and twenty thousand men. An English writer says: “Besides the standards and horse-tails placed before the tent of the aga, or commander-in-chief, each orta had its own particular ensign. But a more important distinction, in the estimation of these troops, were the caldrons attached to each orta, two or three in number, placed under the care of the subaltern officers. The loss of these was considered as the greatest misfortune which could befal the regiment; and, if they were taken in war, all the officers were immediately cashiered, and in many cases the regiment was publicly disgraced. In these caldrons the broth was carried daily from the barracks to the different guardhouses. The police of the capital and the large towns was intrusted principally to the Janizaries. Lampoons and seditious papers affixed to the gates of the mosques, and conflagrations in various parts of the city, were the means by which this formidable body made its displeasure known to the sultan; but that discontent was seldom excited by anything except the power of some unpopular minister, or the revival of a more rigid discipline.”
-There are many instances recorded of sultans being deposed, insulted and executed by insurgent Janizaries. In all Turkish history this corps gives the only example of a <
public anathema. When Osman H was dethroned, a Janizary of the 65th company struck the fallen monarch in the streets of the city. Amurath III punished the crime by cutting o ff the whole company. The memory of the nsult and its punishment was renewed twice every month. When the lights were given to the different barracks, the 65th company was called to receive its portion, but, at the second call, an officer replied, “ Let their voice be silent; let them be wholly extinguished." Reforms were attempted among the troops after they had shown their rebellious spirit, but these met with great opposition among the members. In 1826, the Janizaries declared themselves willing to have a new militia formed, but in June of that year they rebelled against such a formation. They were repulsed by Hussein Pacha, their barracks burst, and many of them executed. The same year the corps was abolished orever and their n ame accursed.
Fra Gioeondo.
Father Marchese in his “ Lives of the Most Eminent Painters, Sculptors and Architects of the Order of St. Dominic ” begins his life of Fra Giovanni Giocondo with these words: “We will now narrate the life of a celebrated architect, who was the singular ornament of his age, and whose wonderful genius did as much for the revival of Greek and Latin architecture as did that of Leon Battista Alberti, or Fra Francesco Colonna, both of whom he excelled in the vast amount of his learning. He certainly was the foremost man in the science of military fortifications, for which he has been praised by Sammicheli, Falconetto, Budeo, and others, who were deeply skilled in such matters. He was, moreover, very learned in hydraulics, and in this particular branch may be .said to have equalled Leonardo da Vinci. This architect was called Fra Giocondo, a name so great that it epitomises the whole cycle of Italian glory during the sixteenth century. He was thoroughly master of all sciences, human and divine; familiarly conversant with the literature of Greece and Rome; in antiquities he had no compeer; in mathematics he was most renowned; natural history was not unknown to him; he was well versed in polite literature; and amongst the admirers of his varied talents were Julius II, Leo X, the Emperor Maximilian, Louis XH, King of France, Lorenzo de’ Medici, and all the most illustrious men of his age. In fact, reading the life of Fra Giocondo, we may almost fancy that we are perusing the entire history of our arts and literature. It was on this account that Caesar Scaliger did not hesitate to pronounce him “ An old and new library of all that was good in science,” and that he elsewhere speaks of him as a “ Phoenix of intellects.” Vasari terms him a most rare man, and universally learned in all the said faculties; and he adds that he undertook to write his life not only for the benefit of artists, but of the whole world. No matter how much any one may disrespect the Conventual Orders, I hold that the name of Fra Giocondo must command veneration. His age, it is true— for it was an age of celebrities-—may point to his equal, but it cannot exhibit any one who was superior to him: indeed, we think ourselves unequal to this subject, and our previous studies will not permit us to treat it worthily.”
According to the most trustworthy accounts, Fra Giocondo was born at Verona in the year 1430. He was, Scaliger informs us, of noble lineage. What year he took the Dominican habit is nut known; indeed, during the last
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	435
century there was considerable discussion among the learned as to whether he was a Dominican, a Franciscan or a secular priest. Vasari and Pauvinio, who lived about the same time as Fra Giocondo, state that he was a member of the Order of Friar Preachers. It was the common belief of most men that such was the case, until the question was mooted by Tiraboschi, who claimed him as a member of the Order of St. Francis. He was followed by Father Della Valle and others who cited many proofs of the fact. The probabilities are that when young he entered the Order of St. Dominic and when in mature years he enrolled himself among the Minorites, a thing of no rare occurrence in those days.
For many years Fra Giocondo, renowned not only as a man of letters but as an excellent architect, held positions of trust under the Emperor Maximilian. He was the teacher of the Latin and Greek languages to Guilio Csesare Sealiger, the father of the celebrated Joseph Scaliger, and by his pupil is mentioned as a prodigy of learning. When the bridge known in Verona as Della Pietra was to be restored by the Emperor, Fra Giocondo gave the model for the work. Bringing his knowledge to bear on the design, the bridge, which bad frequently to be repaired or renewed on account of the floods, was securely built and, though it did not, as Vasari promised himself, “ endure through all time,’’ it lasted for more than two centuries, being carried away by a flood in 1757.
When young, Fra Giocondo spent a number of years in Rome, occupied in the study of antiquities,—not, as Vasari tells us, of the buildings alone, but of inscriptions also, such as they exist among the sepulchral monuments and elsewhere. He did not content himself with those of Rome alone, but extended his researches among the neighboring towns. He collected. many inscriptions throughout Italy, and wrote what Vasari terms “ a most admirable and beautiful book,” which he sent as a present to Lorenzo de’ Medici, the Elder. He also published a treatise on the Commentaries of Caesar and was the first to make a design of the bridge built by Caesar across the Rhone. While in Paris he discovered the greater part of Pliny’s Epistles and had them printed by Aldus Manutius.
Fra Giocondo spent a number of years in the service of Louis XH at Paris. There he built, Vasari tells us, “ two most magnificent bridges over the Seine.” The bridge of Notre Dame excited in after years the admiration of Scamozzi, who declared that he had seen no better work in Paris than this. In Vasari we read that, “ repairing afterwards to Rome, and being in that city at the time of Bramante’s death, Fra Giocondo was entrusted with the charge of continuing the Church of San Pietro, a commission which he held in conjunction with Raffaello da Urbino and Giuliano da San Gallo, to the end that the fabric commenced by the above named Bramante might be carried forward. But certain parts of the building were giving evidence of weakness and decay, from having been hastily executed, as well as from other causes, of which mention has already been made in another place. By the advice of Fra Giocondo, Raffaello, and Giuliano, therefore, the foundations were in a great measure renewed, in which process, persons who were present thereat and are still living, declare that they pursued the methods hereafter described. They caused numerous cavities of large size to be dug beneath the foundations, at due distance from each other, and in the manner of wells, but of a square form; these they filled with masonry, and between every two of these / 3
for so the excavations thus filled may be called, they threw -very strong arches, which, crossing the ground beneath, eventually supplied a new foundation, on which the whole fabric was thus placed without having suffered injury or disturbance, while the building was secured from all danger of further deterioration.”
One of the greatest works he accomplished in the city of Venice. Perceiving that the lagoons among which that city is built would in the course of time become choked with detris, and thus render the air of the city unhealthy, he urged upon the city to take proper means to prevent (this taking place. On the recommendation of the architect the city had an immense excavation made by which two-thirds of the water brought down by the river Brenta were diverted from their course and conducted by a long bend to debouch in the lagoon of Chioggia, which, filling up, was built upon by the people of the city. It was because of this that he has been called the second founder of Venice.
The Bridge of the Rialto having been burned, Fra Gio- . condo made a design for a bridge there, than which, Vasari says “ nothing more beautiful can be conceived, nor could the highest inspiration of genius in the most exalted artist imagine anything more magnificent, more perfectly ordered, and in every way more admirable than it would have been.” There are two reasons why the design was not followed, the same author tells us: first, because ” the republic, exhausted by the enormous expenses incurred in war, was without money;” the second, because certain men in power in the city, moved by private interest, preferred a certain Zanfragnino, whose plan was adopted, which Vasari bewails as " a senseless choice.” Fra Giocondo in disgust left Venice, to which he never would return though frequently entreated to do so.
We read in Vasari: “A man of a most holy and excel-ent life was Fra Giocondo, and very much was he beloved by all the greatest and most distinguished men of letters of his time. Among the more intimate of his friends were Domizio Calderino, Matteo Bosso, and Paolo Emilio, who wrote the History of France, all three compatriots of Fra Giocondo. Sannazzaro was also one of his most attached friends, as was the learned Budceus. He was likewise on terms of intimacy with Aldus Manutius, and with all the Academy of Rome. Giulio Cesare Scaliger, one of the most learned men of our times, considered himself the disciple of this monk. The death of Fra Giocondo did not take place until he was very old, but the exact time of its occurrence is not known, nor can I ascertain in what place he died, for which reason I do not know where he was interred. _______________________________
Crystallography.
Turn not thine eye, admirer of Nature, towards the largest and bulkiest shapes, if thou wouldst view the more beautiful, the more perfect, and the more wonderful of her admirable works. Disdain not to stoop to the lowest forms of creation in thy research, for in Nature is there nothing either mean or low. In the smallest and apparently humblest forms do the most beantiful objects or beings frequently appear, and in truth Nature is never more complete nor more wonderful than when apparently she is least so. Why should it be true that the diminutive flower, the tiny insect, or the little stone—the costly gem, as found in the rocks—seems but a rude bit of worthless stone, is less interesting than the lofty monarch of the forest, the gigan
436
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tic mammal, or the massive mountain rocks ? Because, forsooth, its structure is not so evident. Because it appears not pleasing to the untrained eye—because its beauty may in part or wholly be hidden, and therefore is not apparent to the first superficial glance, it is passed over as unworthy of notice. Yet lost in admiration and astonishment are we on beholding under far different circumstances the self-same objects. Unbounded is our admiration when, by the aid of the microscope, we contemplate the wonders of the diminutive world, or as beneath the grinder’s wheel or diamondarmed saw the precious gem is fashioned into the brilliant or other formed jewel, we behold unfolding to the gaze of the general eye its beauties and perfections. Yet what a sacrifice of magnificence to mere ornamental brilliancy is there in the latter case! One-third of the precious stone is filed away, its natural beauty of form and structure made to give way to artificial design, and this merely for the purpose of gratifying the whims of poor, vain, foolish man!
Where is artificial beauty found to equal the beauty of Nature? Descend into the domain of the mineral world, and wander among the wonders of the winding caverns and caves of the earth if thou wouldst view forms of transcendent loveliness. There, in regions the light of day has never illumined, are found forms by the brightness, richness and brilliancy of which we are dazzled; forms so perfect that never has it entered the mind of man to conceive anything so admirable. And these are but the result of a law instituted by the Divine Author of all things—the law of crystallization. Crystallography, the science which treats of crystallization, or solidification (they are the same), deals not with pebbles of pretty shapes and tints, but with objects modelled by a Divine hand,—the study of which brings to the mind new revelations of His wisdom; tiny shapes by which one mineral is distinguished from another. For true it is that each mineral has its characteristic ciystal, of which whatever may be the size of face and form, whatever the variations and distortions, the corresponding angles of inclination and the form of the faces are essentially the same. Of the crystallization of all substances in nature not organized by vitality and having a homogeneous structure does this science treat in its connection with mineralogy, which, thus viewed, becomes a branch of knowledge perfect in itself, and surprisingly beautiful in its exhibitions of truth.
All the various forms of crystal which are presented to view in the structure of the almost innumerable varieties of minerals found in Nature are simply modifications of a few fundamental forms which are indicated by the cleavage or that peculiarity of internal structure by which a mineral, if examined with care, will be found to break in certain directions with a smooth surface showing a lustre glasslike, though somewhat pearly.
This cleavage is uniform in all varieties of the same mineral, occurring parallel to the faces of a fundamental form, or along the diagonals, is always the same in character, parallel to similar faces of a crystal, is obtained with equal ease, affords planes of like lustre; and conversely, it is dis-simUar, parallel to dissimilar faces or planes.
Thus as science gradually advanced to the almost perfect state of to-day, each day did it unfold new wonders to the admiring eyes of man. With its dazzling light did it illuminate the gloomiest paths and scenes, and fringe with a bright coronet of golden splendor even the darkest clouds that strayed o’er the way of truth. No longer is the mineral world a mere confused mass of materials which defies
the efforts of man to study and classify. Now he can trace the principles or laws established by the Creator even throughout inanimate Nature, which thus give it an organization, simple, yet no less perfect than that characterizing the higher beings. Now can the student of mineralogy find abundant pleasure in examining the forms and varieties of structure which minerals assume, and with as much care as the botanist distinguishes the gems and species of a plant from the arrangement of its leaves, stalks, ovaries, pistils, stamens, sepals, and petals, does he distinguish one mineral from another by the form and variety of its crystal.
The thirteen fundamental forms of crystals are classified in six systems of crystallization, according to the relations the axis bear one to the other. In the first or monometric (from the Greek monos, one, and metron, measure), which contains three forms, the three axis are of equal length; in the second, or dimetric (from dis, two times, and metron), the vertical axis is unequal to the other two; in the third, or tremitric (from tris, three times, and metron,) the three axis are unequal; while in the fourth or monoclinic system (from monos, one, and Wino, to incline,) one axis is inclined to the other two, which are at right angles; and the fifth or triclino (from tris and Wino) the three axis are inclined to one another. The sixth or hexagonal system includes the rhombohedron and hexagonal prism. Of these systems the first contains three forms, cube, regular octahedron and rhombic dodecahedron; the second two, the right square prism and square octahedron; the third three, the octangular prism, rhombic prism and rhombic octahedron; the fourth two, the right rhomboidal prism and the oblique rhombic prism; and the fifth includes but one, the oblique rhomboidal prism.
These, the fundamental forms, are not always those in which the mineral, precious gem, or beautifully crystallized rock is found in Nature. Were such the case, comparatively little would be that variety and beauty which is found everywhere in Nature’s broad domain, and certainly in no less a degree in the mineral than in the vegetable and animal kingdoms. Was it not from Nature man first learned to heighten the brilliancy and beauty of the gem by covering its surface with tiny exquisitely formed facets ? Yet it is said that these artificial imitations of Nature are but feeble. Yea, feeble! The skill and finish of the workmanship, most perfect in the microscopic crystal,—which to the uninstructed eye appears as if it had been cut and polished by the lapidary, so beautiful does it appear with its almost innumerable brilliant surfaces—bears a similar relation to that of the imitation in art that the grandeur of the lofty mountains all gilded in glowing splendor by the rays of the setting sun and crowned by a chaplet of fleecy, golden-tinged clouds, does to the same viewed by the pale silvery light of the midnight moon.
Often does it happen these crystals are found with hundreds of bright distinct planes, every edge and angle of which has the utmost perfection, and the surfaces and evenness of polish in which, with even the highest magnifying microscope, man can find no trace of rude workmanship.
Why should not our souls, filled with gratitude and love, inspire us with a feeling of awe and veneration an thus we contemplate the wonderful handiwork of an allwise Creator, so perfect in even the smallest forms of created matter? In the clear transparency of these beautiful crystals, these gems of Nature, do' we see engraved

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. •	437
aught pertaining to irreligion? Never. We behold in the limpid substance what has ever been and shall ever be there enshrined—the sweet, the holy name of the Creator.
Scarcely can it be ad mitted that the powers of crystallization yield to vitality in the various forms of beauty which they produce. What can be more beautiful than those cavities often met with in the rocks, adorned on each side with sparkling crystals—crystal grottos, such as in fairy tales are represented the grand saloons of their fairy majesties? In the apparent confusion presented therein, wonderful is the order of arrangement; each corresponding plane of the innumerable crystals facing the same way, so that in successive flashes, as each new set of facets comes to the light, the brilliantly sparkling effect is produced, which glows with all the delicate colors and hues of the solar spectrum.
Though wonderful are these results, no less so is the simplicity of the laws of which they are the effects. All this variety and wonderful display is caused by what are called secondary forms of crystals, which proceed from the occurrence of planes with angles or edges of the fundamental forms. These planes are called secondary planes. When an edge or angle is cut off by one or more secondary planes it is said to be replaced; and when one of these planes is equally inclined to the adjacent faces the edge or angle is said to be truncated; when replaced by two planes respectively inclined at equal angles to the adjacent faces, the edge is said to be bevelled.
Crystals of the same form often vary much as to length and size of corresponding faces; yet notwithstanding all such variations, every angle of inclination remains the same, and this constancy shows that the fundamental form, the form of its molecule, is constant; and is it not a proof of that wondrous harmony existing throughout all Nature, itself but a faint reflection of the Intelligence who created ? Yet, despite this, it seems that some would maintain the study of these works is but an efficient guide to infidelity, as are all the Natural Sciences. Monstrous conception of a narrow, yet malicious mind! ’Tis scarcely worth the trouble and time required for a mere passing glance.
We will conclude by remarking how well did the poet express, in the words of his Peri, the incessant exclamation of the voice of Nature prophesying that future life:
“ Take all the pleasures of all the spheres, ■	And. multiply each through endless years,
One minute of heaven is worth them all! ”
N. S. M.
St. Thomas of Aquin—The Angelic Warfare.
It is gratifying to notice that in every part of Christendom the memory of the Angel of the Schools is being revived. His beautiful life as a saint and a scholar has lately been given to the world with such fulness, such appreciation, with so much richness of anecdote and detail, that we seem to have known St. Thomas before only by name, and to have had no adequate idea of his life and labors.
The study of the life of St. Thomas will naturally lead to a study of his works, than which nothing could be more salutary for the students and learned men of our time. “The blush rises to my cheek,” said an eminent scholar when he first took up the Summa, “and I am ashamed of our age when I think that it neglects such books as these, that it contradicts their teaching, and pretends to refute them without ever having known them.”
The Pope has received within the past year numerous petitions from Bishops of different countries asking him to declare St. Thomas of Aquin the Patron of all Catholic universities, schools, and colleges; the Holy Father replied that he desired this petition to become universal before granting it. We trust that our Bight Reverend Prelates of the United States, so zealous for the common good of the Church and especially in the work of education, will be pleased to add their names to the list of distinguished petitioners.
The name of St. Thomas of Aquin shines with the double halo of sanctity and science; he was a great saint—the wonder of the age in which he lived—and his transcendent virtues will ever be the admiration of the world. As a scholar, he has merited the glorious title of Universal Doctor on account of his marvellous gifts and varied knowledge, and in belief that his mighty intellect has never been surpassed.
It is related in the life of our Saint that when he made known his intention of becoming a religious his family were greatly opposed to it and tried every means in their power to shake his resolution, but to no purpose,—Thomas was firm as a rock. He had just finished a long course of studies at Naples with brilliant success; was young, noble, and wealthy; what a pity, they thought, that he should throw himself away by becoming a monk! But notwithstanding the opposition of his family, St. Thomas was clothed with the habit of St. Dominic at Naples. While on his way to Paris, where he was to make his novitiate, he was waylaid by his brothers and imprisoned in one of their castles. His mother and sisters with team and entreaties endeavored to dissuade the prisoner from his resolution, but in vain. Then the devil tried his plan—one worthy of him. An emissary of hell, as malicious as she was beautiful, tried the virtue of the Saint, who with a firebrand drove her from his presence. St Thomas fell on his knees before a cross which he marked on the wall with the charred wood, and with all the fervor of his heart prayed to God for the gift of purity. His prayer was heard. Two angels from that kingdom where “nothing defiled can enter ” filled the room with a heavenly light. They approached the kneeling form of the Saint and girded him with a white cord. St. Thomas sunk to the ground in an agony of pain, but soon recovered, and never again did the slightest impure breath disturb the peace of his soul. The girdle he constantly wore; but until the end of his life he concealed the celestial favor, and only revealed it to his confessor shortly before his death. In commemoration of this divine favor awarded to the Angelical, as he is called, the Confraternity of the Angelic Warfare or Girdle of St. Thomas was instituted. It was approved by many Popes and has been enriched with numerous indulgences. Those who enter this Confraternity undertake the unavoidable conflict necessary to keep themselves pure, and they place themselves under the special protection of St. Thomas. They wear a girdle of white linen in imitation of that with which the Saint was miraculously girded; they pray for the angelical virtue in the words of St. Thomas, and ask the help of his intercession. On the cord are formed fifteen knots, in honor of the fifteen Mysteries of the Rosary, a favorite devotion with St. Thomas. As the ticket of admission contains a full account of the indulgences and festivals of the Confraternity, appropriate prayers, etc.,it will not be necessary to mention them here.-
Among the many saints and illustrious men who wore the girdle of the Angelic Warfare and earnestly recom
438
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mend it to others, it will suffice to mention one dear and familiar name—St. Aloysius Gonzaga. This devotion recommends itself especially to students, seminarists, those Who serve at the altar, and youth in general. Chastity is rightly Called the angelic virtue. lie Who possesses it is an angel, for his heart i£ in heaven. If there is one virtue more than another that makes its possessor Universally loved and admired, it is chastity. It effects an indiscri-Bable charm iu the one who possesses it that no other gift of nature or grace can counterfeit or [supply; it gives a lustre to the eye and a bloom to the cheek, and lights up the countenance with a heavenly radiance. We wonder sometimes at the power possessed by some men over the minds and hearts of others—what secret quality it is that always inspires, at first sight, mingled feelings of love, admiration and confidence ? It is purity of heart. But impurity, if there is one vice more loathsome than another, one that ruins more rapidly and irremediably health of body and soul, it is this. Its victims, may be known at a glance; their faces, robbed of the beauty and dignity of manhood, are open books which reveal the dark record of the most degrading of crimes.
St. Thomas of Aquin is the patron of learning and wisdom, qualities which command the admiration of all; and of purity of heart, which is not so universally esteemed. But the way to be wise is to be pure; and in order that the mind may not be obscured and its powers weakened, the passions must be conquered. “ Who does not know that knowledge is the gift of God, who communicates it so much the more readily to those who ask it the more they purify their hearts?”
Note—To establish the Confraternity of the Angelic Warfare it is necessary to have the approbation of the Ordinary of the diocese. Faculties for blessing the cord, and diplomas for the 'canonical establishment of the Confraternity, may be had by 'applying to Rev. Fr. McKenna, O. P., 152 East 66th St., N. Y; and Messrs. Benziger Bros., Box 4849, New York, can supply tickets of admission, also the cord.
Charles Burney.
The honor of producing the first and ablest historian of music belongs to England; the work of Dr. Burney remaining an authority on all musical matters to this day.
Charles Burney was born at Shrewsbury, England, in the year 1726. He began his studies at a free school in that town, and continued them at Chester, under the organist of the Cathedral, from whom he received his first instructions in music. About the year 1741 he returned to Shrewsbury and continued his musical studies under his half-brother, Mr. James Burney, until the year 1744, when, meeting Dr. Arne, this gentleman induced Burney’s relatives to send the young student to London. There he studied under Dr. Arne for three years.
In the year'1749 he was appointed organist of a church in Fenchurch Street, with an annual salary of thirty pounds. As the salary was small he undertook during the course of that year the organ part at the concert, established at the King’s Arms, Cornhill. The following winter he composed for Drury Lane Theatre three musical dramas entitled respectively “Alfred,” “Robin Hood,” and “ Queen Mab,” which made him favorably known to the public. However, his health became poor, and his physicians, fearing that his malady would turn into consumption, induced him to retire to the country. He removed to Lynn Regis,
in Norfolk, and, remaining there nine years, began his “History of Music.” In 1760, his health was completely restored, and he returned to London with his family, entering upon his professional duties with great zeal and earning great success. His compositions became very popular and brought him considerable renown; while the musical skill of his eldest daughter, then in her eighth year, created universal admiration. In 1766 he produced at Drury Lane a translation from the French which he had mide while at Lynn Regis.
His musical ability became better known each year, and in 1769 the University of Oxford conferred on him the degree of Doctor of Music, for whom he played a musical exercise which he had composed for the occasion. It consisted of an anthem of great length, with an overture, airs, recitatives and chorus, and was played afterwards at the Oxford Music Meetings directed by the famous Emmanuel Bach.
The year following, he visited France and Italy to collect materials for his “ History of Music,” a work that he always kept in view. Returning from his travels, he published a work entitled “ A Musical Tour, or Present State of Music in France and Italy,” a work which was received with welcome by the public. In the year 1772 he visited the Netherlands and Germany, and on his return published an account of his tour and shortly afterwards was elected a member of the Royal Society. The first volume of his “General History of Music” appeared in 1776, and the three remaining volumes appeared at irregular intervals between that year and 1789. In 1779 he published “An Account of Little Crotch, the Infant Musician”; in 1785, on the occasion of a grand musical festival in commemoration of the great composer, his “ Life of Handel ”; and in 1796, his “Life of Metastasio.” Besides writing a number of musical compositions, he also wrote most of the musical articles in Rees’ Cyclopaedia. He died in April, 1814, in the eighty-eighth year of his age.
“In all the relations of private life,” says his biographer, “his character was exemplary, as a father, husband and friend. His manners were peculiarly easy, spirited and gentlemanly, and he had the graces of the Chesterfield school, without any of its formality.” He was ou terms of intimacy with all the celebrated characters of his time in Europe, and was an especial friend of Dr. Johnson.
Of the children of Dr. Burney several became well known as writers. The eldest became celebrated for her musical ability. The second is known in literary history as Madame D’Arblay, the authoress of “ Evelina” “Cecilia ” “Camilla” and “The Wanderer.” His eldest son was a companion of the famous Capt. Cook in bis voyage around the world, while his second son was the distinguished Charles Burney, known to the world as a classical scholar and critic of high reputation. His youngest daughter followed in the path of her sister, and was the authoress of a number of works of fiction.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mr. Jean Rousseau, the Belgian art-critic, is writing an elaborate history of Flemish sculpture.
—The Moabite antiquities/- bought in Jerusalem by the Berlin museum for 28,000 thalers, have been decided to be spurious.
—Prof. Ribesso, of Cincinnati, is modelling an equestrian statue of Gen. McPherson. The plaster cast will be sent to Philadelphia to be cast in bronze.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	43d
- —Pierre Monroe Irving, whose funeral recently took filace in New York, was a nephew of Washington Irving.
n early life he established the Toledo Blade and gave it its felicitous name. He wrote a volume of memoirs of his uncle.
—The collection of engravings and etchings of the late Vicomte Du Bus, which is now being sold at Brussels, has long been known as one of the most complete and well chosen of the works of Vandyck, Rubens, Rembrandt, Teniers, and other masters of the Dutch and Flemish schools, forming a series numbering altogether nearly 3,000 examples.
—The statue of Gov. Winthrop, by Greenough, lately arrived from Florence, in Boston, is to be sent by the State of Massachusetts as a contribution to the National Gallery of Art at Washington. A recent telegram from Olimpia to the JUessager d1 Athenes reports the discovery of a statue of Victory intact, as perfect as if it had come from the sculptor’s hand to-day; and who was the sculptor? On its base is the name of the great Praxiteles.
—Larkin G. Meade’s statue of Ethan Allen was put in place in the capitol at Washington. It is one of the contributions by the state of Vermont to our national pantheon, and has merits as a work of art. Unfortunately the sculptor has made it of heroic size, which dwarfs the works of art all around it, and makes it obtrude itself as “the biggest thing” visible. Story’s statue of Gov. Winthrop, one of the two donations from Massachusetts, is expected in a few days.
—The ridiculous text of “ Mozart’s Magic Flute,” which was written by the manager of the Vienna opera-house, Schikaneder, is considered by many persons a drawback to the thorough enjoyment of the great master’s work. A German has now adapted the words of Schiller’s “ Tu-randot,” to Mozart’s music, and submitted it to some musical critics and opera managers. The work is said to be very successfully accomplished, and is soon to be submitted to a jury consisting of managers, composers, and artists.
—In Germany, as in other countries, women have long been counted among the best writers of fiction, but strangely enough they have not made art a profession there as elsewhere, and the Vienna papers, in recording the recent death of Fraulein Weitmann, daughter of the sculptor Joseph Weitmann, states that she was the only feminine representative of plastic art at Vienna. Fraulein Weitmann, who has died at an early age, twice obtained the gold prize-medal at the exhibitions in the Imperial Academy of arts, and had acquired considerable reputation by her flower and bird-groups in marble and biscuit.
—M. Maurice Dreyfous, of the publishing house of Carpentier, Paris, has devoted himself since the death of Theophile Gautier to collecting all scattered fragments of his writings. He has published the “ Portraits Contem-porains,” the “ Theatre,” “ D’Histoire du Romantisme,” &c., and has collected enough poems to fill two volumes in the new edition. The first of them, just issued, contains all the poems which are naturally grouped around the “Albertus” or the “Espana;” the second, now in press, includes the “ Comedie de la Mort ” and all up to 1872. The “ Emaux et Camees ” will form a volume. Original prefaces, dedications, aud epigraphs will be restored, and the order in which the poet himself classed his compositions will be strictly followed.
—E. A. S., writing from Rome to us, says: “We have had the pleasure of seeing, here in Rome, the beautiful chalice presented by the Holy Father, Pius IX, through the Very Rev. Father General of the Order of the Holy Cross, to the church at Notre Dame. The chalice is in vermeil; i. e., silver covered with gold. The plain cup stands in another cup of leaf-work, adorned with three heads of cherubs in high relief. On the stem of the chalice are three more cherubs in the same high work, and again three more where it joins the base; while the base itself has three groups of cherubs for its principal decoration. Upon the edge of the base is this inscription: Donum SS. D. HT. PP. PH IX.. quo Ipse usus, pro Ecclesia Do-mina W. SS. Cordis, in Indiana, 8. F, 1875. ‘ Gift of our Holy Father, Pope Pius IX, of which himself made use, to
the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, in Indiana, United States, 1875.’ The chalice and paten are enclosed in a morocco case of crimson, with gold arabesques, adorned with the Papal arms. On t he Feast of the Purification of the Blessed Virgin Mary the Holy Father used the chalice and paten himself at his Mass, thus giving it a special value. We may be allowed to add that the Very Rev. Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross used it himself, for the first time, on the 6th of Feb-. ruary, which was his birthday. It will go to Notre Dame,', therefore, enriched with sacred associations; associations which could be more highly prized nowhere than in the. place where the love of the Mother of God keeps alive the love of the Church and the love of its visible head. Pio Nono.”	.
Books and Periodicals.
Pocket Manual of Rules of Order for Deliberative Assemblies. Part I. Rules of Order, A Compendium of Parliamentary Law, based upon the Rules and Practice of Congress. Part II. Organization and Conduct of Business. A Simple Explanation of the Methods of Organizing and Conducting the Business of Societies, Conventions, ana other Deliberative Assemblies. By Major Henry M. Robert, Corps of Engineers, U. S. A. Chicago: S. C. Griggs & Co., 1876. Pp. 176. Price, 75 cts., postpaid.	.	-
We know of no book concerning parliamentary rules equal to this, more especially for the use of debating soci-ties. Jefferson and Cushing are entirely too elaborate, and serve to confuse a young man rather than enlighten him.' The arrangement of the present manual is at once simple, compact, and perspicuous. It deserves to be studied by all who desire to become familiar with the usages of deliberative assemblies; and we recommend it to the members of the different societies here in the College. We feel that it would not be amiss to introduce it as a regular textbook.
—The contents of Church's Musical Visitor for March are: I, Vocal Methods Reviewed—“Voice Building”; H, Singing by Compulsion; HI, “ S. P. C. A.” (A New Interpretation) ; IV, My Winter Bouquet; V, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, (Concluded); VI, Ludwig Van Beethoven; VH,‘ Feuilleton from Chicago; VIH, Improvement in our Musical Culture; IX, Where Cummin Threw the Rye; X, Editorial—Coming Musical Conventions—Miss Abbott’s Troubles—Prove all Things. Are our Popular Songs Original ? Muscular Musical Expression; Organists’ Salaries. XI, Editor’s Notes; XII, Personal Notes; XTTT, Musical Hopper; XIV, Correspondence; XV, Publishers’ Department; XVI, Music.
—As a colored resident of Detroit was breasting the storm, with a new umbrella over his head, he was halted by a friend and brother, who asked, “ Is dat your umbrella ? ” “ Yes, sah—cost me $2," was the prompt reply “ Mr. Savage,” said the other, very solemnly, “ when a man will buy a $2 umbrella to keep the wet oi?n a fifty-cent suit of clothes, what’s de use to talk about economy? ”— Detroit Free Press.	’
—“ Pa, are you in favor of the Bible in public schools? ” asked a West Side youngster at the breakfast table the other morning. “ Why, of course, I am," responded the father, pleased that such an important subject should engage the attention of his youthful offspring. “ What jpakes you ask such a question, my son ? ” “ O, nothing,” rejoined young hopeful, “ only I thought maybe you wasn’t, as you never have had one at home.” The urchin dodged, but he wasn’t quick enough.—Exchange.
—The idea of the end of the world being near is at present very‘much spread among the Cossacks of the Don, who take it quite seriously. A great many of them, chiefly old men, abandon their temporal affairs to devote themselves entirely to their spiritual necessities. A great number of coffins have been ordered beforehand. Many go to Mos? cow to be ordained priests, that every .village, even the very smallest, might have a church and a minister. The authorities do not interfere, as they expect that the movement will cease in the course of time.	-
440
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
la

Terms, $1.50 Per Annum,Postpaid.
. THE SCHOLASTIC ALMANAC may now be procured at the Students’ Office, and at Jansen, McClurg & Co’s. 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago.
Notre Dame, March 11, 1876.
fect harmony in the ensemble, the beautiful evenness in tone, the similar shading of the- expression, were documented so strikingly that one is tempted to believe that the blending of these important qualities only two brothers are capable of.” The two Listemanns cannot be surpassed by any in the country.	.
Mr. Belz’s playing on the French horn quite captivated the house. He is undoubtedly the ablest performer on that instrument in America, possessing the sweetest, purest, and richest of tones. His phrasing and expression are fine, and he possesses entire command over his instrument. The concluding sprightly piece was received with the highest marks of approval. We hope to see the Boston Philharmonics here again. Never has there been a concert at Notre Dame which gave the same general satisfaction to all.
The Philharmonic Concert.
On the afternoon of Thursday last, the Boston Philharmonic Club gave a most delightful and agreeable concert in Washington Hall. The programme was as follows;
1	Quartette in F, op. 18......................Beethoven
. Messrs. B. and F. Listemann, E. Gramm and A. Hartdegen.
2	Fantasia for Flute........................Dimersseman
.	E. Weiner.
3	Beverie for Viola.........................Vieuxtemps
E. Gramm.
4	Cavatina from the Huguenots.................Meyerbeer
Miss Schirmer.
5	Solos for Violoncello
a)	Melodie....................Huber
6)	Musette................Offenbach
A. Hartdegen.
6	Concerto for	two Violins......................  Alard
Messrs. B. and F. Listemann.
7	Fantasia for	Hom.............................Belz
•	A. Belz.
8 Song “Forever”.................................Marston
Miss Schirmer.
- 9 Invitation ala Danse...........................  Weber
We can safely say that never before has a concert been given here with as much success as this. The concerted music was admirably interpreted, and the several solos were rendered with remarkable skill, leaving nothing for us to find fault with. Each member of the club is an artist of the highest order, and, when combined, they produce music as near perfection as we desire to listen to.
The Quartette in F, op. 18, by Beethoven, was rendered in a manner to captivate the audience, and prepared them for the fine display of individual talent which was afterwards exhibited. Mr. Weiner favored us with a charming flute solo, producing the most surprising effects by his extraordinary staccato, while the wonderful rapidity he displayed in his performance of the most difficult passages was astonishing. Mr. Gramm, a pupil of the Conservatory of Berlin, treated us to a finished and captivating performance on the violla, displaying true talent and thorough culture. The singing of Miss Schirmer was received with hearty applause and received an encore to which she gracefully responded. She is possessed of an excellent voice, which she uses well. The violoncello solo of Mr. Hartdegen was a rare treat. He is truly an admirable violoncellist. His tone is full, melodious and pure; such is his easy grace and remarkable power that there seem to be no such things as difficulties in music when he is rendering it.
- One of the most delightful parts of the programme was the concerto for two violins. Both Mr. B. Listemann and his brother Fritz are violinists of marked ability. We heard no rough notes from their violins; and we heartily ■ agree with a New York critic when he says that “ the per-
The Coming Exhibition.
On Thursday next, March 16th, the eve of St. Patrick’s Day, the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club will give the Entertainment in honor of that day so dear to the children of the Emerald Isle. On that occasion the members of the Club, in addition to the usual literary and musical exercises with which we are always treated, will produce a drama entitled the “ Moor of Sicily.” The event on which the play is founded is supposed to have transpired in the reign of Charles of Anjou, who in the drama is known as Charles the Conqueror. The Freneh king, having subjugated the island of Sicily, places it under the rule of one of his Generals, Bernard de Buille, a tyrant, who, not content to govern the country, subjects its inhabitants to insults and does them all manner of injury. Among others, John di Pro-cida, an ardent patriot, is forced to flee from Sicily. In his rage at the tyrant, and grief for his country, tyrannized over by a foreign race, he resolves never to know father, son nor kindred, until Sicily shall have been freed. In pursuance of this resolve he repairs to the court of Spain to obtain the cooperation of the king of that country. After he has spent years in soliciting the aid of the Spaniards, their king promises him the assistance he desires. Procida having succeeded in this, now returns to Sicily, where, disguised as a Moor, he takes service as a slave to a young but impetuous Sicilian noble. He then secretly gathers together a band of patriots, who, disguised as robbers, harass the French whenever the opportunity offers, and relieve them of their ill-gotten treasures. Shortly before Di Procida was forced to flee from Sicily he revealed to his wife the hiding-place of a large sum of money of which he was possessed. She dying while her husband was in exile, made the place known to her son, a child, of ten years, but forbade him to touch the hidden treasure or to speak of it to any one until he had positive proof of his father’s death. Bernard de Buille, the Governor, knowing that Di Procida had hidden his treasures before fleeing the country, and learning that the boy Valentine, who had hitherto been recognized as the son of a Count Bernaldo, is the son of the exile, determines by a trick to obtain possession of the gold. He therefore disguises himself as a Spanish friar, falls in with Valentine, and telling the boy that his father is dead he almost persuades him that he was, prior to the father’s death, commissioned to come secretly to Sicily and take the boy and the treasure to Spain. Valentine is about to lead the supposed friar to the treasure when he is warned not
- THE KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to go. De Buille, infuriated by the failure of his plans, throws aside his disguise, reveals himself, and threatens the life of the boy, taking him to his castle. In the mean time the assistance promised by the Spanish king arrives. Di Procida collects the nobles and peasantry. Uniting with the Spaniards, they attack the castle of the French Governor. They scale the walls, and after a desperate encounter Di Procida kills De Buille. The French are routed on all sides and Sicily is free.
The sentiments expressed in the drama are highly patriotic, and there are a number of unusually fine situations to be brought out. We hope that the young men forming the Columbian Association will bring it out perfectly, and give us an entertainment worthy of the day they celebrate.
Personal.
—Melville Baker, of 69, is doing well in Adrian, Mich.
—Rev. Paul Gillen was at Notre Dame on last Wednesday.
—We learn that Rev. P. P. Cooney will visit Ireland this coming fall.
—J. P. Kurtz, of ’75, is in an architect’s office, No. 12 Bank Block, Detroit, Mich.
—Frank Frazee, of ’75, is book-keeper for the firm of W. H. Johnson & Co., Portsmouth, Ohio.
—M. W. Carr, of *72, was at the College on Tuesday last. Mr. Carr is at present Editor of the Toledo Review.
—Rev. President Golovin is to preach on St. Patrick’s day in South Bend. In the evening he is to lecture in Niles, Mich.
—Mr. Otto von Tesmar, of Chicago, completed to-day his work in the Cabinet of Natural History. As far as we have ascertained, his work is quite satisfactory. We recommend him to others desirous of having their cabinets renewed or enlarged.
• —We regret to chronicle the departure from Notre Dame of Jos. Fleury, of the Scholastic Office. Mr. Fleury has shown himself while here a faithful worker, and we can endorse the statement of Very Rev. E. Sorin, where he says: “It is very seldom that I can recommend anyone as highly as I do my young friend, Joseph Fleury.” By his faithfulness in the discharge of his duty he has won the regard of those for whom he has been employed, and we can sincerely recommend him to anyone wishing a faithful employee.
—From the Chicago Times of the 9th we take the following account of the accident to the father of J. P. McClory, of the Commercial Department: “ The many friends of Aid. P. McClory of the 7th ward, will deeply regret to learn that an accident befel him on yesterday, from the effects of which he cannot survive. He was out taking a buggy ride as was his wont every fine day, and had reached Michigan street, at the corner of Kinzie, when the unfortunate accident occurred. It appears that in turning the corner, a sudden gust of wind had carried away his hat, and in attempting to catch it, he lost one of the reins, and unconsciously pulled the other in such a manner as to suddenly bring the horse to a stand-still at the curb-stone, upsetting the buggy and precipitating himself into the street. The sudden turn threw him head-fore-most against the curb, and lie was picked up in an insensible condition and carried to the nearest drug store, where medical assistance was promptly secured. An examination showed that the skull had been fractured in several places, and that nothing could be done to save the man. Soothing remedies and bandages were applied, but the attending physician pronounced the injuries fatal. McClory was at once taken to his residence at No. 658 Centre Avenue, and on last evening, at a late hour, he was still living, with only slight hopes of his surviving over night. Aid. McClory is a man about 45 years of age, and has served the citizens of the 7tb ward for the last four years in the council. He came to this city from New York
about ten years ago, and has since been in the employ of the People’s Gas Company as. general superintendent, which position he has filled to the entire satisfaction of the Company, and with credit to himself. As a member of the Common Council, he had labored for the interests of his constituents and the city. Of a modest and retiring nature, he never took an active part in the debates of the. council, but always voted for measures which he conscientiously believed to be for the prosperity and welfare of the city. He was rarely found absent from the council meetings, and invariably manifested a keen interest in all their -proceedings. He kept clear of all combinations and acted in all things from the best motives.” Mr. McClory died on the morning of the 9th.
Local Items..
—Use “ Bixby’s Best.”
—Conference on the Sth.
—The rings and bars are still in use.
—All the Societies are in good working order.
—The Science Lectures are very popular here.
—Mr. Bonney was out photographing on the 8th.
—The Junior Drawing Class is increasing in numbers.
—Unintentionally we made sport of “ Spot” last week.
—Baseball was played in all the yards last Wednesday.
—The Columbians’ Exhibition will take place on the 16th
—The Minims are learning to exercise with Indian clubs.
—Which society will give the next literary entertainment ?
—The Minims’ velocipedes were out in full blast last Wednesday.
—There is to be a grand time out in South Bend on St. Patrick’s Day.
—Rev. T. E. Walsh makes the lectures in the Junior hall very interesting.
—The tables were almost deserted on last Wednesday. The weather was too fine.
—We will not make use of the smallest item when the writer’s name is not given.
—The weather is so changeable that there is no use trying to keep the track of it.
—We commend the poem on our first page to the attention of the editor of the South Bend Baily Herald.
—Why have our musicians given up the string quartettes, with which we were favored some years ago?
—“Spot” seems theologically inclined. At least he wished to attend the Conference on Wednesday last. .
—The members of the Orchestra should, after the concert on last Thursday, be excited to a greater love for their organization.
—The Columbians will charge a small sum, to all except students and invited guests, for admittance to their exhibition on the 16th.
—There will be a lecture in Science Hall this evening at seven o’ clock. It will be of great interest to all. Rev. John A. Zahm is the lecturer.
—We call the attention of the members of the different societies to the notice of Robert’s Rules of Order, under the head of “ Books and Periodicals.”
—The lecturer on Saturday evening gave an experiment not on the programme. He will not repeat it, as cremation is not in order until after death.
—J. A. Reubelt, of Bourbon, Ind., sends us a prospectus of the Bourbon College. We suppose this institution is of the Sour-Mash or “ Old Crow” kind.
—On the seventh inst. the Minims repeated their Christmas Exhibition, at the request of those of their companions who were absent during the holidays.
—Another lot of instruments has been received for the Cabinet of Physics. Fr. Zahm seems determined to maka the experimental part of his lectures interesting.
442
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—We have a first class artist in his line, frescoing the office with whitewash. We are willing to send him to the Centennial and back him against any washer in the C°^Signor Gregori has presented Br. Albert with two fine drawings in crayon from the antique, executed by his son Constantine, now in Bologna. They will serve as models for the pupils of the Drawing Classes.
—In one of their walks lately by the St. Joseph River, the Minims captured a mole and presented it to the Museum. Several more specimens of the same animal would be thankfully received by the Director.
—The following are the positions of the Atlantics when in the field: J. Ruhl, catcher and Captain; J. Maley, pitcher; W. Bulger, shortstop; H. Murphy, 1st b; E. Maley, 2nd b.; P. Hennessy, 3d b.; H. Deehan, 1. f.; M. Dillon, c. f.; J. Dwyer, r. f. ,
—We acknowledge with thanks the receipt of the Scholastic Almanac, for 1876. The Almanac is the compilation of Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, and reflects great credit on him. The typography is excellent.— Niagara Index.	-
—Have you tickets for the Science Lectures ? If not, get them as soon as possible, for you will never have such another opportunity of learning something about the interesting sciences of chemistry and physics, or of witnessing such brillant experiments.
—The 2d regular meeting of the Scientific Association was held on Friday evening, March 3d, at which Messrs N. J. Mooney and J. G. Ewing were elected members. After the transaction of a little mescellaneous business the meeting adjourned.
—The Quickstep Nine for the second session is composed of the following players: O. Lindberg, capt. and c.; L. Frazee, p.; J. Duffield, s. s ; F. McGrath, 1st b.; F. Campau,2db.; W.Cash, 3d b.; P. Nelson, 1. f.; A. Bushey, c. f.; J. Davis, r. £
—There seems to be some trouble among the members of the Sand-Burr B. B. C. As far as we can understand it, the trouble is that some of the members are in favor of adopting the amateur baseball rules, while others will not rest satisfied with anything less than professional rules.
—In Church's Musical Visitor for March, there is an article entitled “When Cummin threw the Rye.” The only two good jokes in the article were published in the Scholastic, one some three or four years ago, the other last year. Both may be found in the Scholastic Almanac for 1876.
—The 6th regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception was held March 6th. At this meeting Massrs. C. Faxon, J. English, J. Travear, S. Goldsberry. 0. Ludwig. A. McIntosh, J. Cavanaugh, and Peter M. Tamble, were elected members. Time being brief, the meeting adjourned. The association now numbers forty-three members.
—The 14th and 15'h regular meetings of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrain Association were held Feb. 24th and March 3rd. At these meetings declamations were delivered by Masters J. Mosal, D. Nelson, J. Hally, C. Hagan, W. J. Connolly. E. Laub, C. Peltier, C. Welsh, J. Reynolds C. Ham, and F. Goldsberry. Master J. English was elected a member, and Master Mosal read a composition.
—We call the attention of all the Catholic students to the article entitled “ St. Thomas of Aquin,—The Angelic Warfare.” In connection with it we might state that the “ Confraternity of the Angelic Warfare” has just been canonically established at Notre Dame. We heartily recommend all to be enrolled in it. To do so they have only to apply to the Very Rev. A. Granger, who is the local director. Rev. Fathers Letourneau and Hudson have also faculties for giving the cord. .
—The 17th and 18th regular meetings of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club were held Feb. 26th and March 4th. At the former meeting, declamations were delivered by Messrs. F. Maas, “Seminole’s Defiance;” J. Cooney, “ Death-bed of Benedict Arnold;” J. Obert, “ Touch not the Cup.” Essays were read by Messrs. Hertzog, “How to write a Composition”; McNulty, “Eulogy on St.
Ignatius.” Mr. F. G. Bearss was unanimously elected a member. At the 18th meeting Messrs. McKinnon, Sullivan and Keller were elected members.
—After witnessing the delightful concert on Thursday, our young performers in the Orchestra, instead of being discouraged, should on the contrary be encouraged to make the best use of the lessons they have received, and should be incited to be more punctual at rehearsils and more attentive to the directions given by the leader as regards marks of expression. If they have no hopes of acquiring the high state of perfection attained by the Philharmonic Club, they should at least endeavor to approach as near to it as possible.	-	•
—Meetings of the students in German were held respectively on the 28th ult., and on the 6th and Sth inst., and resulted, with the approval of Rev. Father Golovin, in the organization of a society whose object is the cultivation of the German language and literature, under the name of the St. Boniface German Literary Association. Meetings are to be held every Wednesday, at 9 o’clock, A. M. The officers for the present session are: Director, Prof. O. M. Schnurrer, A. M.; President, B. Philip Neri; Vice-President, W. T. Ball; Secretary, H. L. Dehner; Treasurer, Carl Otto; Censor, C. W. Robertson.
—The 23rd and 24th regular meetings, of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association took place Feb. 25th, and March 23d, respectively. Declamations were delivered by A. K. Schmidt, E. Arnold, P. M. Tamble, H. D. Faxon, C. Clark, A. Ryan, W. J. Davis, D. Ryan, W. Roelie, W. Hake and R. P. Mayer. Master J. French read a composition. Master W. Hake was elected assistant marshal. Then the debite: “That Napoleon was a Greater Military Man than Wellington,” took place. The following took part in it: Messrs A. Ryan, J. French, M. Kauffman and E. F. Arnold. The decision was given in favor of the affirmative. Master Ryan was the best debater, the subject for the next debate is,Resolved—“That a law prohibiting the sale of liquor is a benefit to the people.’
—On the 8th inst., a game of baseball was played between the Centennial nine of the Junior Department and a picked nine of the Senior Department. The following is the score:
centennials.
Hagan, c................
Schmidt, I. f...........
McIntosh, s. s..........
Ryan, 2 b...............
Morris, c. f............
Roelie, lb..............
Faxon, 3 b..............
Rosa, r. f..............
French, p...............
Total.............
r. o.
picked nine.
R. o.
Pilliod, c..............
Millen, p..............
Perea, lb...............
McKernan, s. s.........
Pollard, 2 b............
Byrne, 3 b..............
Burns, 1. f.............
McCloskey, e. f........
Evans, r. f.............
Total...............
5 2 0
0 2
3
2 2
2
18
2 4
6 6
3 3
3 3
4
34
Umpire—E. Graves and C. Campau.
Scorer—P. M. Tamble.
The score was even at the end of the 9th innings, so the clubs played the 10th and the 11th innings, in the last of which the Centennials gained two runs.
—On Saturday last, March 4, Rev. Fr. Zahm delivered the first of his lectures on Chemistry and Physics, the lecture being on “Waler.” We will try and give a short synopsi-of the reverend gentleman’s remarks. After a few prefas ory remarks, welcoming the students, and expressing his long desire to have such a course of lectures, the reverend lecturer proceeded to the development of his subject. He first stated the fact that chemists regard water as a compound body, not a simple or elementary one. The elements of which they say it is composed are two gases, oxygen and hydrogen. The lecturer then showed by experiments with these gases what their respective properties are, explaining thoroughly many interesting and instructive facts regarding them. He then, by means of the electric battery, decomposed water into its constituent gases, and by experimenting with them, showed them to be the same gases as were before examined. In explaining the properties and uses of oxygen and hydrogen, the Rev. gentleman explained the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe, and showep its wonderful action on substances usually considered by us
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
443
to be incapable of combustion. He then said a few words •with regard to the wonderful power man has control of in the electric fluid. He gave us some beautiful experiments with the electric arch, and also showed how machinery might be run by means of this mighty power. He ended by exhibiting for the amusement of the younger students the fine new magic lantern lately procured.
—The following is the programme of the second annual celebration of the Patronal Festival of Rev. P. J. Colovin, President of the University of Notre Dame, by the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club, March 16th, 1876 :
PART FIRST.
Entrance (St. Patrick’s Day)...................Cornet	Band
Senior Address...................................Jas.	Caren
Junior Address.....................................A.	Burger
Minim Address..........F. McGrath, C. Long, E. Oatman Overture (Belisario)...Orchestra
Latin Address...........................J.H. Cooney
French Address............................A.	Hertzog
German Address............................R.	P. Mayer
Song (Kathleen Mavourneen)................C.	Robertson
Address from the Columbian Club..............W. Breen
' PART SECOND.
THE MOOR OF SICILY, A Drama in Three Acts, Remodelled for the Occasion by the President of the Columbian Club.
FRENCH.
General de Buille......................Joseph	Campbell
Capt. Malcom............................William Breen
Capt. Sontelle.......................William Fogarty
Capt. LaRoche..........................Gerald	Sullivan
Eugene (1st Soldier)....................Willard Smith
Louis (2d Soldier)......................Leo McCollum
SICILIANS.
John di Procida (the Moor)................Thomas	Logan
Leon (Father to John di Procida).........Logan Murphy
Valentine (Son to John di Procida)......Joseph McHugh
Count Bernaldo..................................George	McNulty
Alessandro.....................................Ambrose	Hertzog
Waldo.) Officers, disguised (...........HarryO’Brian Valdi...................................)	asRobbers (.John Obert
Borgho (1st Robber)............................Rudolph	Maas
Spaladro (2d Robber).............................Louis	Pilliod
Maggaroni........................................Harry	Cooney
Beppo......................................Frank	Maas
Pietro...........................................Frank	Bearss
Ferdinando................................James	Dwyer
MUSICIANS.
F. Keller, J. Kreutzer, I. Dryfoos.
Choruses.......................Gillespie	Choral Union
Soldiers, Robbers, Peasants, etc.
After Act First, music by Orchestra; after Act Second, music by Brass Quartette; after Act Third, music by Cornet Band.
Closing Remarks.......................................
En Lit Marche...........................Comet Band
BoH of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Atfield, J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Bearss, F. Belford, F. Brady, J. Cooney, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, M. Cross, T. Carroll, P. Corbett, H. Dehner, I. Dryfoos, J. Dwyer, J. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Evers. J. Egan, A. Hertzog, J. Harkin, J. Handley, J. Herrmann, F. Keller, P. Kennedy, J. Kreutzer, W. Kelly, J. Kelly, J. Krost, Peter Mattimore. Patrick Matti-more, H. Maguire, R. Maas, J. Miller, S. Miller. P. McCawley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum, R. McGrath, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, M. McCue, S. McDonell, P. Neill H. O’Brien, Carl Otto, J. Perea, W. Pollard, L. Proudhommc, T. Quinn, M. Regan, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, W. Wells, E. White, H. Cassidy.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. J. Byrnes, A. Bergck, J. P. Byrne, A. J. Burger, J. F. Carrer, W. J. Connelly, J. T. Foley, F. Flanagan, C. Gustine, S. Goldsberry, R. Golsen, H. Faxon, C. Faxon, P. Hagan, C. L. Hagan, W. Hake, F. Hoffman, J. Healey, A. Hamilton, M. E. Halley, H. Henkel, M. Kautzauer, J. P. McClory, A. McIntosh,
M. P. McAuliffe, W. G. Morris, D. P. Nelson, J. L. Nelson, C. Peltier, F. Phelan, F.Rosa, A.Ryan, W.Ryan, H.Scott,G.Sugg, W. Taulby, P. Tamble, N. Vanamee, W. J. Roelie, W. Irvine, C. Roos, C. Campan, J. Treaver, E. B. Hall.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	-	*
P. Heron, H. Hake, A. J. Bushey, G. Rhodius, J. O. Stanton. M. Gustine, T. F. McGrath, R. Pleins, P. P. Nelson, J. Haney. P. Haney, O. W. Lindberg, F. A Campau, J. Davis, W. Coolbaugh, B. Morris, A. Campau, S. Bushey, C. Long, E. Oatman, H. McDonald, W. Van Pelt, C. Bushey.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MARCH 9,.1878.
Law—L. D. Murphy, T. C. Logan, G. Gross. -
Anatomy—R. J. Maas, B. L. Euans, F. Smiley, W. Chapoton, C. C. Atchison, V. McKinnon.
Civil Engineering—J. Brown, E. Graves.
German—P. Schnurrer, B. D. Heeb, R. P. Mayer, M. Kauffman, F. Vandervannet, A. O’Brian, R. McGrath, E. Gramling. J. Egan, P. M. Tamble, C. Orsinger, W. Roelle, D. Byrnes, ,C. Myers, M. Cross, J. Mosal, H. Henkel, J. Coleman, L. McDonnell, J. Caren, G. Belford, J. Cavanaugh, F. Hoffman, J. O’-Rorke, C. Schurbert, J. Hagerty, A. J. Hermann.
French—A. Hertzog. J. Hermann, G. Gross, O. Ludwig, J; B. Proudhomme, L. W. Proudhomme.	-
Drawing—A. Schmidt, J. McClory, J. Knight, J. Brown, E. Graves, E. Sugg, H. Kinson, R. Golsen, E. C. Gramling, R. McGrath, J. Duffield, H. Henkel, B. Morris, W. Roelle, P. Heron. O. S. Stanton, E. Rhodius, O. Ludwig, A. Hatt.
Telegraphy—E. Atfield, T. C. Logan, J. McIntyre, J. Me Eniry, P. Corbett, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, J. Dryfoos, J. Hermann J. Proudhomme.
MUSIC.
Piano—W. Breen, F. Maas, H. Cassidy, V.Baca, J. Hermann M. Regan, W. Ball, C. Clarke, E. Collins, B. McCawley, B. Mayer, B. Heeb, T. Quinn, E. Raymond.
VIOLIN
L. Pilliod. W. Chapoton, R. Maas, F. Keller, J. McHugh, W. Byrnes, H. Miller, A. Betcher, A. Schmidt, W. Taulby, O. Ludwig, G. Streit, W. Corbin, M. Kauffman, A. Buiger.
Guitar—H. Leonard, A. Hatt.
Flute—J. English, A. Pilliod.
Clarionet—R. Calkins.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
W. McDevitt, W. Coolbaugh, W. Van Pelt, B. Morris, H. McDonald. C. Long, C. Bushey, J. Haney, G. Lambin..
German—G. Lambin, J. Seeger, G. Rhodius, F. McGrath, L. J. Frazee.
Music—J. Duffield, H. Haas, F. A. Campau.
French—F. A. Campau, A. Campau, C. Bushey.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] preparatory course.
Seniors.—S. McDonell, A. McBriar, J. P. Quinn.
Juniors.—J. Kenny, O. Beall, W. Nicholas, J. O’Meara.
St. Mary’s Academy, March 8,1876.
Friend Scholastic.—The mistake made in our last week’s letter by printing “universal events’’for “unusual events ” was a very amusing one, for certainly St. Mary’s must be far removed from all creation if no universal events occur within its precincts. The lecture on Rhetoric delivered by Rev. Dr. Hallinan, of Lafayette, on Wednesday last, before the faculty and pupils at St. Mary’s was highly appreciated. The “ Rosa Mystica ” was read on last Sunday evening by Misses K. Joyce, E. Dennehey and A. Clarke of the Graduating Class. Rev. Father Cooney, C. S. C., honored the young ladies by his presence at the read- -ing, and much encouraged them by his kind and favorable criticisms. The article entitled “ Origin of Language ” was considered as deserving special praise. The Rev. gentle
-444
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
man gave them as a subject “Divine Providence.” No doubt there will be quite a competition as to who will produce the best article on the subject. The members of St. Eusebia’s Literary Society have elected Miss Hope Russell to fill the place of Miss C. Woodward, their former VicePresident, who is, to the regret of all, detained at home by sickness. The beautiful floral cross sent to St. Mary’s by Mrs. J. Holladay, as a tribute of esteem to the memory of Sr. M. Sebastian, has been framed, with similar offerings, and sent to the venerable, mother of the deceased Sister. These proofs of grateful affection give much consolation to the family and friends of the departed. The mild weather; gives the pupils a fine opportunity to enjoy extra walks, and these extra walks promote health and cheerfulness; so we are happy to report all well at the Academy.
Yours Respectfully.
Tablet ofHonor.
' SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Kiley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A St. Clair, E. York, L Reynolds, K. McNamara, L. Ritchie, J. Nanning, M. Julius, M. Brady, M. Walsh, A. Byrne, A. Dunean, S. Hole, C. Morris, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, E. O’Niel, R. Casey, A Heneberry, J. Kreigh, EL Hutchinson, M. Murray, R. Neteler, B. Spencer, H. Russell, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, 8, Moran, M. Gaynor, B. Siler, I. Maas, I. Edes, N. Tuttle, .K. Casey, S. Swalley, N. King, M. Hooper, S. Cash, D. Cavenor, H. Hand, M. Usselman, D. Locke, M. Markey, A. Miller, L. Leppig, F. Gurney, C. Morrill, C. Fawcett, J. Darcy, R. Filbeck, L. Weber, A McCormack, M. Halligan 100, par excellence. Misses L. Arnold, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, J. Bennet, M- Faxon, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, B. Wade, L. Kelly, L. Henrotin, M. Cravens, M. Spier, E. O’Connor, T. O’Brien, G. Wells, L. Tighe, 100.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Hogan*, N. Mann*, A. Cavenor*, M. Hoffman* L. Walsh*,L.Merritt*,N. Johnson*, A’.Morgan*, M.Derby, H.Dry-foos, D. Gordon, A Kirchner, M. Schultheis, A. Morris, A Koch, I.Fisk, L.Faulkner, M. Ewing, B. Wilson, A Cullen, M. Brooks, .M. Mulligan, M. McGrath.
-	MINIM DEPARTMENT. ’
Misses E. Mulligan*, J. Smith*, M. Lambin*, J. Duffield*, M. McFadden*, M. McCormack*, M. Hughes*, C. Simpson*, C. Trull*, Annie Morris*, A Duffield*, L. Schnurrer*, A Schnurrer*, A Ewing*, M. Fehen*, R. Goldsberry*.
ART DEPARTMENT.
'	DRAWING.
3rd Class—Misses L. Ritchie, M. and E. Thompson, M Schultheis, P. Gaynor and S. Moran.
4th Class—Misses M. O’Connor, K. Morris, J. Mitchell, A. Harris and J. Kreigh.
5th Class—Miss D. Cavenor.
CRATON.
2nd Class—Miss R. Neteler. painting in water colors.
2d Class—Miss L. Henrotin.
4th Class—Misses R. Neteler, A Cullen, E. Lange, A Koch.
OIL PAINTING.
1st Class—Miss B. Wade.
2d Class—Miss C. Morgan.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Foote, E. O’Connor, Devoto, Henrotin and Spencer. 2d Div.—Misses D. Cavenor and Riley.
2d Class— Misses M. Gaynor and Arnold. 2d Drv.—Misses A. Dennehey, Morgan. E. Dennehey. Byrnes and Cannon.
3d Class—Misses Kirchner, M. Walsh, Bennett, S. Edes, N. King, A. Walsh, A. Cavenor, E. Edes, Mitchell, L. Walsh, I. Edes, Cash and Gordon. 2d Div.—Misses J. Morris, H. Julius, Wade, J. Johnson, O’Meara, R. Casey and E. Thompson.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
INDIANA. Founded 1842.	. Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundsed Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.	•
, TERMS.
Matriculation Fee...'........’..................... §5	00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek included), Washing and Mending of Linens, per session of five months •..........................
French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Hebrew, each... Instrumental Music............. Use of Piano................... Use of Violin.....................................
Telegraphy........................................
Vocal Lessons, j General Class Principles.........
,	Vocal Culture.....................
Elocution—Special Course..........................
Use of Library (per session).........."...........
Drawing........................................... Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus.......
■	( Classical Course................
Graduation Fee,-< Scientific Course............... (Commercial Course................................
Students who spend their vacation at the University are charged extra.................................
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.	,
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t. -
150 00
10 00
12 50
10 00
2 50
10 00
10 00
15 00
5 00
1 00
15 00
5 00
10 00
10 00
5 00
40 00
St*
(One Milo West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River. is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received; and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with, the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem- nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, nd hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution,- the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1874-75, or address	'
■ St. Mary’s Academy,
-	.	Notre Dame, Ind.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD,
(Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMZyXISSZO^Pu FOK ALL STATES,
206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special A-ttention Given to Depositions.
OTTO VON TESMAR,
TAXIDERMIST,
124 Orchard street, North Side, Chicago, HI.,
Does all kinds of work pertaining to the.Taxidermic Art at reasonable prices. Also prepares Skeletons, refits Cabinets of Natural History. renews Specimens, etc., etc. For further particulars address as above.	■ mh 11-tJy
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	445
M. Livingston & Co.,
ABE TZEHEE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Send
Tliey Have tlie Best Cutter intlie City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Clotlis, Casslmeres, Vestings, . and. Gents’ Furnisliing Goods, is the largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
BEMEMBEB THE PLACE.
91 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND IND
McDonald,
THE FHOTOG-RAFHER,
'	Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and 'Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, ei c., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
I
„ PIANOS! “THE STECK"
WAS AWARDED THE ONLY COLD MEDAL AT VIENNA EXPOSITION OF 1873, BY THE MOST EXACTING AND INCORRUPTIBLE JURY EVER CONVENED AND IN THE FACE OF THE MOST POWERFUL COMPETITION. THESE PIANOS ARE UNEXCELLED IN POWER AND PURITY OF TONE AND PERFECTION OF GENERAL MECHANISM, WHILE IN POINT OF DURABILITY THEY ABSOLUTELY SURPASS ALL OTHERS.	d
CEN’L AGENTS IN CHICACC-THE
ROOT £ SONS
MUSIC CO.
Go to HENRY HELLER, THE CHAMPIOV Barber and Hair-Dresser, 87 MICITIG-ABT ST.
Work done to satisfaction. Give me a call.
THE BEST'
School Music Books.
HIGH SCHOOL CHOIB.
Seminaries, and. High Schools. Songs in 2, 3 and 4 parts.
$1.00.
For 3 Female voices. Full of the vXfcUAvaa XA Um> best of fine music for Seminaries
*	$1.00.
AMERICAN SCHOOL
MUSIC READERS
in 3 books, 35 cts., 50 cts., and 50 cts. Find graded course for Primary and Grammar Schools. All the preceding works are compilations of those thorough teachers and composers, L. O. Emerson and W. S. Tilden.	.
CHEERFUL VOICES. School Songs.	50 cts

National Hymn & Tune Book, (40 cts.) Contains the best collection of Sacred Music extant for opening and closing schools.	■
We also call attention to those excellent . collections of School Songs: “Merry Chimes,” “Golden Wreath,” “Nightingale,” and “Golden Robin,” each 50 cts.; to “Deems’ Solfeggios,” “ Panseron’s A B C,” Perkins’ Orphean,”
“ Hour of Singing,” all for the higher schools, Mason’s great Music Charts, S3, and Dr. Streeter’s treatise on “ Primary Elements, 60 cts.
Successful Music Books.
GETZE’S SCHOOL FOB PARLOR ORGAN!
It is already in the hands of 30 000 learners and players on Reed Organs, and deserves this and greater success.* Contains 176 graded lessons, including nearly 50 agreeable Pieces, a dozen Songs, and 25 short Voluntaries.	§2.50.
Centennial Coll, for Old Folks Concerts. New. .40
BELLAK’S
• ANALYTICAL METHOD FOR PIANOFORTE. .
As the very first instruction book, (for the first 3 months on the Piano), nothing could be better. Very easy pieces, nicely fingered and graded. Does away, mostly, with the dryness and drudgery of the first quarter. In Paper, 75 c.
A large, elegant collection of Choice Songs, with Piano or Reed Organ accompaniment. 232 pages, Sheet Musiu size. §2.50 in Boards; §3.00 in Cloth.
All books sent by mail, post-free, for retail price.
OLTVEB TDTTSOTT & CO.,
BOSTON.
J. E. DITSON & CO., CHAS. H. DITSON & CO. Successors to Lee &. Walker,	711 Broaiway, Shff YOBK.
TMila.
LYON & HEALY, Chicago.
446
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, DI., and Louisiana, Mo......3	10 pm 12 00 pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30 am 9 40 pm
Peoria Day Express.............••••...	.7 5o pm 9 30 am
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.... .7 50 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 16 pm 12 00 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20 am 4 30 pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINEI
Chicago, Rock Island, and ^Pacific
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Alchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the	’
Great Overland Koxite to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
•	Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 a.m.	4 00 p.m.
Peru accommodation................ 5	00pm.	9 30	a.m.
Night Express.....................10	00 p.m.	6 15 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
Attaclied. to the National Hotel, anti A <1-jaeeiit to tile Lake Sliore and Nlicliit^an Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen Noire Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot, I sha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mai,’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. E. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
0 Trains with Through Cars to	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp Daily.	No. 4. .Night Ex Ex Sa&Su
° NEW YORK.			
Lv. CHICAGO		9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	5 20 a.m
“ Rochester		1 18 a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
“ Pittsburgh		2 20 “	12 15 p.m.	7 05 “
Lv. Pittsburgh	 Ar. Cresson		3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
“ Harrisburg		12 05 p.m.	11 05 “	4 13 “
“ Baltimore		6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
“ Washington		9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
“ Philadelphia.		4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
New York		7 35 “	6 50 “	11 15 “
« New Haven		11 10 “	10 49 «	3 36 p.m.
« Hartford		12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	5 55 “
« Springfield		1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
<t Providence		4 25 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
u Boston		5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 21,1875, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 4,0 a. m.. Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 10 30; Cleveland3 p m; Buffalo S) 15.
10 13 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35p m; Cleveland 10 15.
11 55 am, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 05 am.	-	•
9 13 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 ('5; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
7 53 pm, Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 30 Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 pm.
4, -40 p m, Local' Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 40am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 4 15 p m, Chicago 6 30 am
5 SOam, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45; Chicago
8 20 a m.	-	-
3 pm, Evening Express. Arrives at Laprrte 3 55; Chicago, 6 30
5 43 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45.
Chicago, 8 20.	•
8 OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago
11 30 a. m.	'
9 IO a m, Local Freight.	_
J. W. CARY. Gen’l.Ticket Agt., Cleveland. -
CHARLES PAINE ..Gen’l Supt.
Michigan Central Bailway
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. E. M7EES, G. P. & T. A.
Time Table-November 31, 18'75.
	•Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlanti Express.	t Night Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 01 “	6 35 “	7 43 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		9 02 “	12 15 p.m	8 30 “	■8 55 “	12 45 “
“ Jackson		2 12 p.m	4 05 “	7 00 a.m	12 47 a m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		5 45 “	6 30	10 15 “	3 50 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 50 a m	4 00 p-m	40 p.m	9 50 “
“ Jackson		10 37 “	12 30 p.m	7 15 “	9 25 “	12 45 a.m
“ Niles		3 40 p,m	4 19 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 15 “	5 45 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 45 “
Ar. Chicago		7 35 “	8 00 “	10 20 “ 1	6 30 “	8 00 “
Niles and South Bend Division. ’	GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15	a.m.	7 15 p m.	§9	00 a.m.	§7 00	p.m
“ Notre Dame-8 22	“	7	23 “	9	07	“	7 07	“
Ar. Niles— 9 00	“	8	00 “	9	40	“	7 40	“
[THE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladie- and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts or home daring their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, I
CAPTAIN MILLS, [Proprietors.
Lv. Niles—
6 30
“ Notre Dame—7 (fl Ar. South Bend—7 15 ♦Sunday excepted.
G. L. Elliott,
a.m.
GOING SOUTH.
4 20 p.m.
4 56 “
§8 00 a.m. 8 32 “
8 40 “
§5 00 p.m
5 32 “
5 40 “
5 05	- -
tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted ;
§Sunday only. ,	•	• Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago,
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
• M
Tb’E NOTRE DJAME SHOLASTIC.
ut-
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.,
Importers and Dealers, in Fine
Books and Stationery,
■ 117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
dealer in
Watches, Clocks,
.A-Usri)
CT ZB WELHY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL,
Opposite the Post Office,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Kates, S2.OO Per Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
"STANDARD” ORGAN
IS ACKNOWLEDGED BY THOSE ACQUAINTED WITH ITS CONSPICUOUS MERITS TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL REED ORGAN NOW IN THE MARKET. THE UNAPPROACHABLE ELEGANCE OF ITS DESIGNS FOR CASES AND ITS PERFECTION OF TONE AND GENERAL MECHANISM, COMBINED WITH THE POPULAR PRICES AT WHICH IT IS SOLD, ARE UNANSWERABLE ARGUMENTS IN ITS FAVOR.. EVERY ORGAN GUARANTEED. PRICE LISTS AND CATALOGUES FREE. CEN’L WESTERN AGENTS—THE ROOT £ SONS
MUSIC CO.
CHICAGO.
The Naturalists’ Agency
Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of specimens of Natural History an opportunity of buying , and selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plants, &c., &c -Nearly all the collectors in America, and many of those in, Europe, will visit this city during 1876, so that this will be the best opportunity ever offered for disposing of and purchasing specimens. My store-rooms are within ten minutes’ walk of the Centennial grounds, on the line of the Chestnut-street cars. I shall also have a branch within one minute’s walk of the main building. I have already in stock over $30,000 worth of specimens, including the finest specimens ever found of Amazon stone, brookite or arkansite, perofekite, nigrin, green wavellite, peganite, tellurium ores, feldspar, albite, petrified wood, smoky quartz;. the birds and animals peculiar to the Rocky Mountain s &c., &c. I have spent nearly $7,000 during the past year in the collection and purchase of specimens. Special attention given to collections for schools and colleges. Correspondence solicited, with those wishing to buy or sell specimens, at an early date, as an illustrated catalogue will be issued before the 1st of May. I refer to
Prof. GEO. J. BRUSH, Dr. JOSEPH LEIDY, Prof. ASA GRAY, Prof. J. S. NEWBURY.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Fellow of the A. A. A. S., Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy.
O. TZ. SHEERER, Hats, Caps and Furs, TRUNKS, Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents'‘Furnishing Goods, Sic., HO Michigan Street,	. _
SOTTTZEI EZETTZD TJSTOD.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER, MERCHANT TAILORS Clothiers and Dealers in
Gens’ Furnishing' Goods, Eats. Caps, etc., 109 Michigan St., SOTTTZEZ BEND, TJSTTDTJkliTA..
Th® Bund
A. McKay, Prop., NILES, TZETOETTG-AESr. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
A. C. SHIRE, in grara ttprs, 191 Main Street,	.	*
TWO BOOTS SOUtll Of Ed. GUleil’S,	SOUTH BENS, INDIANA
[Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
fa
traml Antral fctel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
ZDZEUTTTST,
109 2MTCs:iG--A_nsr stbeet, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
D. W. RUSS & CO.
KEEP THE
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS For Meals, Oysters, ICE CZELZEJUMZ, ZUZEZES, -ETC.
MZEAXS A.T .A.XZIA HOURS. ESTABLISHED 1852.
1. iff. Kate & Kro., Dealers in BOOTS -A.ZLUD SHOES.
The Largest Re ailing House in the State Control vningtoR sa ani HicMgan Sts., SOU TH BEND.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
^dZZEYEZEd ZDINTINTG-STOlSr, 60 Washington St., Three Boors West ol Blum’s Cigar Store,	SOUTH BEND, IND
Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps. Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
IRAK MAYR
KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS *AND JEWELRY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENGRAVING- A SPECIALTY
Repairing Done in the Most Skillful Manner.
69 WASHINGTON, St,,
SOTJUZETZ ZBZKZSTZD-
CANDY! CANDY! : CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
100 Van. Buren St., CHICAGO, ILL. Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy..................................15c
Fine Mixed Candy............................  25c
Choice Mixed Candy............................35c
Caramels......................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy......................25c
Proportionately 3Lo-w Prices to NVTiole-sale Cash Buyers.
The Enemy of Disease!
THE FOE OF PAIN ;
TO MAN AMD BEAST
Is the Grand Old
Mustang Liniment,
which, has stood the test of 40 years.
There is no sore it will not heal, no lameness it will not cure, no ache, no pain, that afflicts the human body, or the body of a horse or other domestic animal, that does not yield to its magic touch. A bottle costing 25c., 50c., or $1.00 has often saved the life of a human being, and restored to life and usefulness many a valuable horse. mb 11-ly.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is -tn the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its mapsand time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SJYZISr FRANCISCO,
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bl tills, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette, Green Bay. Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best, travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other.
This popular route is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, well-bs lasted and perfect track of steel rails. Westinghouse air brakes, Miller's safety platform and couplers, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway traveling.
PULLMAN T»JAJL,A.C!E cars
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.'
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of rhe Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hughitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent.
i