Notre Dame Scholastic.
Dlsee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras toriritnrna.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 20, 1880.
Number 28.
[For the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.”]
The Pine Trees.
BY E. J. M.
Ab some lone traveller far away
From ocean, hears the distant roar Of winds that toss the splashing spray, Loud echoing on an unseen shore;
So, in the forest dark and dim
I listen, while the rushing air From the blue heaven chants a hymn, And the dark pine-trees bend in prayer.
Ah! thus the breath of Nature thrills
The wild chords of the poet’s soul, And on the everlasting hills
The harmonies of heaven roll.
Like Israel, when God gave the Law ’Midst thunder clouds o’er Sinai furled, We stand and hear in silent awe
Vague murmurs from a grander world.
The Free Will of Man.
BY J. DONOSO CORTES.
Aside from the action of God, there is nothing but the action of man; and, aside from divine Providence, there is nothing but human liberty. The combination of this freedom with this providence forms the rich and varied web of history.
The free will of man is the master-piece of creation, and the most extraordinary, if it were permitted so to speak, of the divine wonders. In relation to it, all things are invariably ordained, and in such a way that the creation would be unintelligible without man, and man deprived of free will would be an unfathomable mystery. His liberty explains man, and is at the same time the interpretation of all things; yet who can explain this most high, inviolable and holy freedom—so high, inviolable and holy, that He who bestowed it, cannot take it away—and which is able to resist and vanquish Him who gave it, opposing an invincible resistance, and obtaining an overwhelming victory? Who can explain in what way, notwithstanding this victory of man over God, God remains the conqueror, and man the conquered; while the victory of man is areal victory, and the defeat of God is a real defeat ? What can be the nature of this victory, which is necessarily followed by the defeat of the victor; and what can be the nature of the defeat which terminates in the elevation of the conquered? What is the meaning of paradise as the reward
of defeat, and of hell as the punishment of victory? If in my defeat is my reward, why reject that which saves me; and if my condemnation is in my victory, why desire that which condemns me ?
These questions have occupied the minds of all the great doctors of past ages. The petulant sophists of to-day afiect to despise them, and yet they cannot even lift from the ground the formidable weapons which these holy doctors, in Catholic ages, easily and humbly wielded. In the present age, it is considered an inexcusable folly to examine with humility, and aided by grace, the high designs of God in His profound mysteries; as if man could comprehend anything, without an investigation of these profound and high designs. All the great questions upon God are now considered as idle and sterile; as if it were possible to study God, who is intelligence and truth, without acquiring truth and intelligence.
Regarding the question which is the subject of this essay, and which I shall endeavor to confine within as narrow limits as possible, I affirm, that the opinion generally entertained respecting free will, is in every respect false. Free will does not consist, as is commonly supposed, in the power of choice between good and evil, which importune man with contrary solicitations. If free will consisted in this faculty, the following consequences would necessarily result—the one relative to man, and the other relative to God, and both evidently absurd. The consequence respecting man would be, that the higher the degree of excellence he attained, the less free he would become, as he could not advance toward perfection, without becoming subjected to the influence of good; and he could not yield to the sway of truth, without removing himself from the rule of evil. He must necessarily remove himself from under the sway of the one, in the same degree that he subjects himself to the other; and as this must alter, more or less, according to the measure of his perfection, the equilibrium between these two contrary influences, his freedom, that is, his power of choice, must therefore be diminished to the same extent that this equilibrium is disturbed. If we place the highest perfection of man in the annihilation of one of these opposing elements, and take it for granted that perfect freedom consists in the power of choosing between these antagonistic solicitations, it is evident that, between the perfection and the freedom of man, there is a patent contradiction, and an absolute incompatibility. The absurdity of this deduction consists in this, that man being free, and at the same aiming at perfection, he cannot preserve his freedom without renouncing perfection, neither can he become perfect without losing his liberty.
As relates to God, the consequence of this hypothesis would be this, that God, not being subject in His nature to contradictory solicitations, would not be free, if freedom
432
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
consisted in the full power to choose between opposing solicitations; and if, according to this supposition, He must have the power to choose between good and evil, between sanctity and sin, in order to be free, then there exists between the nature of God and liberty thus defined, a radical contradiction and an absolute incompatibility. And, as it would be an absurdity to suppose, on the one side, that God cannot be free if He is God, and that He cannot be God if He is free; and on the other, that man cannot attain perfection without losing his liberty, nor be free without renouncing perfection, it follows that the idea of liberty that we have just examined is altogether false, contradictory, and absurd.
The error that we have just exposed consists in placing freedom in the faculty of choice, when it really rests in the faculty of will, which supposes the faculty of understanding. Every being endowed with understanding and will is free, and his liberty is not a distinct thing from his will and understanding, but the two united. When we affirm of a being that he has will and understanding, and of another being that he is free, we assert with regard to both the same thing expressed in two different ways.
If liberty consists in the faculties of will and understanding, then perfect liberty consists in a perfect will and understanding. These are the attributes of God alone, from which it follows, as a necessary inference, that God alone is perfectly free.
Again, if liberty consists in the faculties of understanding and will, then man is free, because he is endowed with will and intelligence; but he is not perfectly free, as he is not endowed with an understanding and will infinite and perfect
The imperfection of his understanding is, that it is limited on the one hand, and on the other subject to error. The imperfection of his will is, that he does not desire all that he ought to wish for, and that he may be importuned and conquered by evil. From whence it follows that the imperfection of his liberty consists in his power of choosing evil and embracing error; that is to say, the imperfection of human liberty lies in precisely that faculty of choice, which, according to the vulgar opinion, constitutes its absolute perfection.
Man at his creation knew good; and because he perceived it he sought it, and because he sought it he practiced it; and in the possession of that good which he sought with his will and understanding, he was free. That this is the signification of Christian liberty, we deary see in the following words: Cognoscetis veritatem et veritas liberabit vos* Between the liberty of man and that of God there is, then, no other difference than that which exists between anything that can undergo diminution and loss, and that which cannot; the same difference that must exist between that which is limited and that which is essentially infinite.
When the woman listened to the voice of the fallen angel, her will immediately began to be obscured and weakened ; she ceased to rest on God, who had hitherto been her stay, and she experienced in consequence a speedy downfall. It was then that her freedom, which consisted in the exercise of will and understanding, was enfeebled. When she passed from the thought to the commission of sin, her understanding became obscured, and her will weakened. The woman involved man in ruin, and human liberty fell into a state of deep abasement,
* John vlii, 32,
Some persons who confound the idea of liberty with that of absolute independence ask why man became enslaved so soon as he fell under the power of the devil, when it is at the same time affirmed that God created him free. To which we answer, that it cannot be asserted of man that he is.a slave only because he does not belong to himself; in which case he would always be a slave, inasmuch as he never belongs to himself in an independent and sovereign manner. But, it is affirmed of man, that he is enslaved only when he falls under the power of an usurper, as it is said that he is free when he obeys only his legitimate master. He only is enslaved who is ruled by a tyrant, and there is no greater tyrant than he who exercises an usurped authority; nor is there any other liberty than that which consists in a willing obedience to legitimate rulers.
Again, some persons cannot comprehend how the action of grace, through which we are redeemed and liberated, can be reconciled with this same liberty and redemption. It appears to them that in this mysterious operation God is the sole agent, and man is passive. This is an entirely erroneous opinion, because it is necessary that God and man concur in this great mystery—God working, and man co-operating. For this reason God does not usually impart more grace than is needed to assist the will. Fearful of oppressing it, He is contented with inviting it, with the most loving request; while man, when he receives the impressions of grace, does so with incomparable sweetness and complacency; and when the loving will of man, who listens to this invitation, is joined to the loving will of God, who calling him rejoices, and rejoicing calls, then through this sweet concurrence of .wills, does the grace which was sufficient become efficacious.
With regard to those who imagine liberty to rest in the absence of all solicitation which may affect the will of man, I shall only say that- they inadvertently fall into one of these two great errors—either that of supposing a rational being to act without any motive whatever, or that an unreasoning being can be free.
If the above is true, it is certain that the faculty of choice bestowed upon man, far from constituting a necessary condition of freedom, endangers liberty, since through it arises the possibility of a renunciation of good, and of falling into error, of a denial of God, and of a subjection to tyranny. All the efforts of man, with the assistance of grace, should be directed to the keeping of this faculty under, so that he may even lose it, if possible by inaction. He alone who loses it, understands good, desires it, and performs it; and he alone who does this is perfectly free; and he alone who is free is perfect; and only he who is perfect is happy. None of the blessed have this faculty of choosing between good and evil, neither God, nor His saints, nor the choirs of angels.	.
—That part of the intellectual workman’s education which comes from reading is to teach him how to use his tools,—that is, his mental faculties. It wings his imagination; it tames his fancy; it enlightens his judgment; it arms his reason; it enriches his memory. And when his mind is thus developed and equipped, it is as ready for beginning its life-work as the blacksmith’s arm is when he gets strength and skill to wield the hammer. Too many students make of the world a gymnasium instead of a workshop; they are forever getting strength, but never using it to any purpose except to try and get more.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	433
>	Politeness.
----
In this enlightened age of progress and education I •	think I may safely say that there are few, if any, of the
(	rising generation who are wholly unacquainted with the
rules of politeness. Yet it is true that, some of our young folks are very careless about observing points of politeness, and as this cannot arise from want of knowledge it must be attributed, in a great measure, to want of attention. Po-. liteness is, indeed, an important part of one’s education, i	and as this we find it so considered by those capable to
I	judge, by those charged with the care and instruction
* ‘ of youth.
We are, it is true, living in a wonderful age,—an age of unprecedented enlightenment, an age which, in actual pro,	gress—whether of good or evil—the world has never before
J '	witnessed; and although in many respects it is a great bless-
1.	ing to live in such an age, it, nevertheless, requires, on
our part, strict attention to keep time with the world, run-1 i ning as it does now at so fast a rate.
The young man of to-day that would enter the higher walks of life must not spend the precious time of youth in inglorious ease, in building “castles in the air,” nor in ' dreaming of the distant future with a sort of idle complacency; but he must earnestly strive to acquire a thorough mastery over those things, the knowledge and practice of ., which will entitle him in after life to such and such a position,—to a position of trust, of integrity, and ability.
Now, assuming that every young man either knows how to act politely, or has a favorable opportunity of acquiring this knowledge, I will pass over the various points in which true politeness consists, and confine myself to draw' v ing the reader’s attention to this important subject.
What seems to be wanting in many young men of the . present day, is attention to the points of order and regul' arity, by which they ever should be guided. Close at-,r tention to even the smallest and most trifling matters, is of paramount importance to the young man who would lay the foundation of a life of true usefulness; £ as many and many of the catastrophes and blunders which ’ make wretched the lives of a large number of men, who might otherwise be models of industry and enterprise, may be traced to a want of attention to those points and traits * of character that go to make the gentleman, contracted in youth, and which increased with their years, until finally it made of them a sloven and a clown. How many examples, in fact, of these self-same individuals could we not 1	point out, of men—who when young had all the advantages
of a college education, and who imagined that their knowledge of Latin and Greek, would give them a license to - step from the college portals into the higher circles of society, without any one daring to question their right thereto ? But their thinking does not make the thing a reality; and hence do we not but too frequently see these i self-same individuals excluded from this very society into which they expected so easily to enter? They discover, when it is too late, that there is something more required of young men than mere book knowledge, and that they should also have cultivated habits of politeness, of amiability, of gentlemanly conduct and refinement, something i in which so many at the present day are so much lacking. ■ 7 But my readers may here ask, does the fault lie in the j	system of education which such young men receive ? or,
i	are the instructors themselves deficient or negligent in
' points of politeness? I answer, let this be as it may; the
fault is, in nine cases out of ten, to be charged to the student; for, if we inquire into his college life, we shall find that he was of that class who always imagined themselves sufficiently instructed on such points, and with whose conduct no one could find fault. I myself have seen young men attending colleges and universities who would pride themselves on being regardless of every gentlemanly act, of every act, simple, pure, and refined in its nature. Such students, when obliged to listen to instruction on habits of politeness, would strive to turn these instructions into ridicule, and declare to their companions that such things were too “ high toned,” etc.
Now let us imagine, if we can, that one of these students, just mentioned, ascends higher and higher—after leaving college—until he finally reaches the United States Senate, and that at the time of our friend’s elevation to the Senatorial dignity, the Presidential chair is encircled once more with clouds of smoke issuing, not from the booming cannon of war, but from a pure “ havana cigar,” rapidly growing shorter in the mouth of a man who would not, like men of past ages, refuse to serve his country for a “third term”—and has it not yet to be recorded in the history of our country, where a man has been so self-sacrificing as to serve his country in that responsible office for a “ third term,” and not to make the occasion one of a grand Senatorial banquet? to which, let us suppose, our friend is cordially invited. Now let us follow our friend to the banquet halls, watch his movements, and note the display he will make of his college training—a training but half received, since he refused to be instructed in those very things that form the basis of education, religion, and politeness. We may now notice that he starts out very well; he enters the banquet hall, escorting a lady, and, singular enough, he knows which arm to offer her. The next place we notice this individual is at table; and, having refreshed himself with a copious draught of sparkling champagne, he soon throws of the ceremonial politeness which he had assumed for the occasion, and begins to feel perfectly at home; becomes quite conversational, seasoning his conversation now and then with a few Latin and Greek terms, as also with some Spanish and French quotations, and succeeds admirably in attracting the attention of the guests. But what a change is soon about to take place! our Greek, our Latin, our Frenchman, and Spaniard, is soon to be branded as an uncultivated bore, a medley of nonsense, having regard for the feelings of no one. He, in fact, violates every rule of etiquette, and finally terminates his intercourse with that aristocratical society, by addressing the Hon. Thos. Glickhorn in such terms: “Hallo, there! Tommy Glickhorn, shove that champagne fixing around this way.”
Now, the case above given is but of course an imaginary one; but may we not reasonably conclude from it that points of politeness should not be disregarded in even the lowest circles of society?
It may, perhaps, be asked by some of my young readers if a man could not acquire, even in after life, that portion of his education which he neglected in earlier days. We answer, yes: it is possible for a person to do so. But what would you think of a musician who would appear on the stage before a large and intelligent audience, and then keep them waiting an hour or two,'while he practiced the overture ? So it is with the young man who fails to acquire in youth that which he would wish to put into execution in after life. The world is a grand stage on
434	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which each and every one of us is required to take a part in the drama of life; and, if we neglect to give our earnest attention thereto, how can we expect to act our part well •
G. F. K.
Avarice.
Avarice is defined by Webster as an excessive or inordinate love of gain. Now, to the man of the world there may seem nothing very detestable in this definition; and yet experience teaches that it is one of the lowest vices to which the human heart can attach itself. In fact, it may almost be considered the meanest,—the lowest of all vices, as it is capable of leading a man to make any sacrifice of conscience, reputation, or friends, if by so doing he can in any way promote his own interest. No other vice has occasioned so many disputes and litigations in society. It incites wars, arouses contentions, propagates murders, and severs the dearest ties of love and friendship. Scarcely a contemptible act or an outright crime is committed in which avarice is not either directly or indirectly an accomplice. And yet whatever other vices we may admit, we never think of imputing avarice to ourselves. Even the most.worldly-minded people would fain believe themselves entirely free from this arch-monster. Nevertheless, so varied and manifold are its species that under one form or other it ingratiates itself into the minds and actions of many, who flatter themselves that they, at least, are free from this vice. In truth, very few are so fortunate as to be entirely free from the vice of avarice. People in general seem to have a special hatred for this unworthy guest; and yet, without fear of contradiction, it may be pronounced the pet vice of the present age. It pervades all classes of society. Even among those who have renounced the world and its allurements, and seem proof against every other species of vice, we not unfrequently find some entangled in one or more of the offshoots of avarice.
History exhibits many striking examples of crime occasioned by the unbridled indulgence of this passion. The most frightful of which is that of Judas, one of the chosen twelve, selling his Divine Master for thirty pieces of silver. Again, in the dreadful chastisement of Ananias and Saphira, we see how odious this vice is in the sight of God. Even our own country can furnish its quota of those who for filthy lucre have sold both their character and country. The names of Arnold, Burr, Belknap and Tweed will ever be remembered by posterity as terrible examples of the direful evils that follow in the train of this most degrading vice.
Numberless other examples might be cited in proof of the evil effects of avarice; but these will suflice to furnish a slight idea of the depth of sin and degradation to which it invariably leads.
There cannot be the least doubt but that Judas had many good qualities, and a vocation for the apostolate, since it was our Saviour Himself who appointed him; and yet, through this vice alone he was led to the commission of a crime which, in enormity—if we except the sin of Adam—never has, and never can be equalled.
It may be further asserted in proof of the evil tendency of this vice, that it is one of our greatest impediments in the road to perfection and in the great work of our salvation. And, in my opinion, what makes it still more dangerous to man’s salvation is that, unlike most other vices,
instead of becoming less violent in old age, unless strongly and vigorously resisted, it daily gains new strength,—blinding us to our true interest, turning our mind and heart from the desire of gaining the treasures of heaven, after which we should be anxious, and to which the powers of the soul and the desires of the heart should always tend.
Besides the considerations already mentioned, there are many other reasons why we should condemn avarice. Some of these means are the following: First, because it draws upon its votaries the odium of all with whom they have any dealings; secondly, because it renders them continually miserable, inasmuch as its cravings can never be satiated; thirdly, because of the bad example it offers to the world in opposing the worship of Mammon to that of God and everything holy; and, finally, because life is too short, and heaven too hard to gain, to set our hearts on the treasures of this world, which if we do succeed in acquiring, we cannot assure ourselves the possession of them even for one day; avarice, therefore, may be considered one of the greatest vices and defects of our nature, and where this passion is dominant it should be resisted with a will, and every effort made to drive it from our hearts. And yet while we condemn and avoid the terrible vice of avarice, we must be careful not to stumble into the opposite extreme, which, although not so bad in itself, nor so much despised, is, at least, very injurious in its effects.
J.C.
The Smallest and Oldest Republic in the World.
The little republic of San Marino, which, by the mouth of one of its most prominent officials, gave an indignant denial recently to the assertion that it intended to authorize the introduction of gaming-tables, is inclosed in the kingdom of Italy. It is bounded on the north, east, and south by the province of Forli, and on the west by that of Pesaro.
Its territory covers about twenty-two square miles. The population numbers about 8,500 souls, and the capital, San Marino, has 1,200 ihhabitants. It is perched on the summit of a mountain called Mount Titan, or the Giant’s mountain, which sometimes leads to the little State’s being termed the Titanic Republic. Its origin dates from the fourth century, and for heraldic bearings it has the follow ing: Argent, three strong towers; azure, three rocks of the same; three curved flames, gules, issue from the towers and crown them. The motto is “Libertas.” The escutcheon is surrounded by flags, and surmounted by a crown indicating a sovereign State. The republic has an order of chivalry, created in 1839, under the name of Order of San Marino. Its symbol is a Greek cross with towers at the four angles; in the centre is a medallion, with the arms of the republic surmounted by a princely crown, closed and suspended to a striped blue and white ribbon. These are the national colors.
In 1796, Bonaparte, after defeating the Austrians, sent the celebrated mathematician, Monge, to compliment the free mountaineers and make them offers of aggrandizement, but they very politely and very prudently declined. When Italy became a kingdom, Napoleon desired to preserve this small State intact. “It is a rare sample of a republic to preserve,” said the Emperor. In 1849, Garibaldi, driven from Rome by General Oudinot,took refuge in San Marino, forbidding his soldiers to do any harm to the inhabitants.
Victor Emmanuel not only respected the liberty and the institutions of this little country, but always showed it

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
435
great sympathy, especially on his visit to Bologna, at the time of the inauguration of the Ancona Railway in 1861. In 1862, a treaty of customs and commerce was concluded between Italy and the republic.
San Marino owes its foundation to a hermit of that name, born in Dalmatia in the fourth century, and who went to Italy to work as a mason at the rebuilding of the walls of Rimini. Marino afterwards took refuge in the midst of the woods on Mount Titan, and constructed there a cabin, in which he ended his days. The place where he expired soon became a resort for pilgrims, and houses were built there, which ultimately formed the town of San Marino. The ffite of the saint is celebrated on the fourth of September.—Paris Register.
Art, Mus io and Literature.
—Remenyi is seriously ill in Chicago.
—“ G-olden Rod ” was written by Mrs. B. N. Harrison.
—A Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings has been successfully established in France.
—Albert Garnier has written a book called “ Scientific Billiards,” which will have over 100 colored illustrations.
—The Island of Madagascar is nearly four times as large as England and Wales. Its largest river is 300 miles long.
—Four editions of the “ Metternich Memoirs ” have been issued already. The sale in America is nearly three times as great as in England.
—The artist Edouard Detaille is 30 years old, and has already painted his thirtieth picture. He is a pupil of Meissonuier, and is said to be a very rapid painter.
—It is announced that Theodore Thomas has resigned the Presidency of the Cincinnati Musical Association, and that his resignation has been accepted by the trustees.
—A copy of the “ Actes et Histoire du Concile (Ecumeni-que du Vatican, publies sous le haut patronage de Sa Saintete le Pape Pie IX,” offered for sale by Benziger Bros., New York.
—Altogether,jRubens produced 2,719 works of art, among which 228 were sketches and 484 drawings. Of all these works, 829 have never been copied, 690 are only known by copy, and 294 seem lost.
—The “ Manuals Sacrarum Gceremoniarum, in libros octo digestum a Pio Martinucci,” that has been out of print for many years, is published again. The first volume of the new edition is now ready for sale.
—The object of the Army Catholic Literary Association lately organized, is to supply books and periodicals to the Catholic soldiers in the Army. The object is a most noble one, and deserves to be encouraged.
—The New York Water-Color Exhibition has been a great success. The receipts so far amount to $21,000 for pictures, as against $9,000 in 1879, and $6,000 in 1878. The galleries have been constantly crowded.
—Mr. Matsdaira, a Japanese engineer working in New York, in addition to many inventions of merit, reads eleven languages, has finished a mathematical work in three volumes, and is only 30 years of age.
—G. P. Putnam’s Sons will add to their list a book by the author of “A Lady in the Rocky Mountains,” Isabella Bird, in which, under the title of “Unbeaten Tracks in Japan,” she describes her travels on horseback in the interior of the Japanese islands.”
—A beautiful portrait of His Holiness, Pope Leo XIII, is on exhibition at Benziger Bros. New York store. It is a striking likeness, full lite size, and is the work of the renowned Catholic artist, Carl George Kaiser, after the original of the Senior Master of Christian Art, Maria Paul Deschwanden. The original is in the possession of the Central Committee of tne “Pius IX Verein” of Switzerland.
—Last week’s Boston Pilot furnishes its readers with a
commuication from Rome, which gives a long list of the objects of art discovered in the above named city and in its neighborhood within the past year, through the efforts of the Archaeological Commission. The obj ects are over 2,000 in number varied in their kind; and will no doubt prove a valuable acquisition to Rome as well as a source of much information to archaeologists.	'
—A. T. Bricher, one of our best marine painters, has lately been engaged upon some very strong watercolor drawings that will be seen for the first time at the coming exhibition of the Water Color Society. This artist, still devotes a large portion of his time to figure painting, and his success in this branch of his art will be appreciated by all who were fortunate enough to see his “ Autumn Leaves” at the last exhibition of the Brooklyn Art Association.
—The formal opening of the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art is announced for April 1st The collections have been mainly the gift of persons forming the membership of the Museum. The new building is situated at Eighty-second street and Fifth avenue. Among other valuable collections, the Museum contains the Cesnola collection, the Avery porcelain collection, the MacCallum collection of old laces and embroideries, Cypriote jewelry, and Kensett’s pictures.
—John Birch lives in a hovel close to the house in which Lincoln died, at Washington, and has there worked assiduously on a device for perpetual motion. He is a fine mechanic and musician, and occasionlly does some repairing of musical instruments, in order to earn money enough to support himself. Remenyi and Ole Bull trust their violins to his hands. He is a brother of the original Billy Birch, the famous negro minstrel, from whom the present Billy Birch took his name.
—Three valuable books have been lately presented to the Astor Library by Mr. John Jacob Astor, which will attract much attention and interest. The first is an edition of the “ Catholicon” of Joannes Balkus de Jenna, 1460. It is a treatise on Grammar and Rhetoric, and is supposed to have been printed by Gutenberg. Its cost was $15,800. The second a German Bible, printed by Lanier, of Augsburg, in 1477,—a fine example of early printing with Gothic type. The third a Greek MS. of the Apostolic Epistles, Eleventh Century.
—Writing to Res Missions Gatholiques from Landana, in Congo, Pdre Carrie supplies a few particulars respecting Mr. H. M. Stanley’s expedition from the West Coast. Mr. Stanley, it appears, has with him fourteen white men, one Arab, two natives of Sierra Leone, and sixty-one men from Zanzibar, whence a large additional number are shortly expected to arrive in charge of a European. Pdre Carrie adds that Mr. Stanley has with him a number of wooden houses ready for erection at various points as he advances into the interior.
—Twenty-five American composers made an effort to capture the $1,000 prize and the attendants honors, offered by the Musical Festival Association of Cincinnati for the best native composition. The works have already been handed in, and the composition known as “ Scenes from Longfellow’s Golden Legend,” a symphonic cantata for solos, chorus, and orchestra, has been chosen, and will be produced at the Musical Festival that is to take place in the above named city next May, at which time the name of the composer will be known.
—Colonel James E. McGee, the editor, soldier, and author has lately passed from our midst, and taken his flight to the broad shores of eternity. Colonel McGee was the brother of Thomas D’Arcy McGee—Prime Minister of Canada, who .came to an untimely end in 1865. Mr. McGee was an able writer, and his contributions to the Catholic World bear us out in this respect. The best known of his works are “Irish Soldiers in Every Land,” and “The Celebrated Sons of Irishmen.” Mr. McGee was a good Catholic, and died fortified by the Sacraments of the Church he loved so well.
—On Thursday, March 4th, the 102d anniversary of the birth of the patriot-martyr, Robert Emmet, Irishmen every where met to give appropriate recognition to the occasion. Tn Boston celebrations were held in several places. AtHor-
43$
“THE itOTRE DAME SdHOLASttd.
ticultaral Hall the principal demonstration took place. The hall was filled by a large audience, the receipts to go in aid of relieving the distress now prevailing in the old country. The stage was appropriately decorated with flags and bunting. The exercises embraced an introductory address by the Hon. P. A. Collins, the reading of a poem by Mr. John Boyle O’Reilly, and an oration by Mr. John E. Fitzgerald. After choice selections by the Ninth Regiment Band, the Chairman, Hon. P. A. Collins, delivered an introductory address.—Boston Pilot.
Scientific Notes.
—Of the 202 minor planets now known, 155 have been discovered by ten astronomers. The list is as follows; Peters, 38; Watson, 23; Palisa, 21; Luther, 20; Goldschmidt, 14; Borrelly, 9; Hind, 9; De Gasparis, 7; Prosper Henry, 7, and Hogson, 7. The whole number of discoverers is thirty-three.
—An Italian has invented a movable tower, called the “ Moretta • Elevator,” which he claims will prove invaluable in rescuing people from burning buildings. It can also be employed as an observatory to watch the movements of an enemy in time of war, as a scaffolding for workmen, and for many similar purposes.
—The TUustrirte Zeitung gives the following statistics concerning the telegraphic wires of the world: Those of Europe measured at the close of 1878, 768,786 English miles; those of America, 114,157; Asia, 24, 521; Australia, 23,582; and Africa, 8,148. The telegraphic net that embraces the world comprises, theretore, 980,176 English miles, or 1,513,683 kilometres.
—The 10th of June of this year wril be the tercentenary of the death of Louis de Camoens, and the occasion is to be celebrated at Lisbon. The reigning King himself, Don Louis, has consented to be a member of the Reception Committee, and series of l&es will be given by him, as well as by his father Don Fernando, who is President of the Royal Academy of Science.
—In a work on the principles of light and color, the author, Dr. Babbitt, contends that if a yellow or amber colored bottle of water be exposed to the sunlight a while, the water within will become medicated so that it will act as a laxative and animating principle generally, while the water exposed in a blue bottle will act as a nervine, astringent, and narcotic. The experiment can easily be tried.
—Two German scientists, Herrs Virchow and Cohn, have recently studied the probable cause of shortsightedness, and are of the opinion that it is mainly caused by the amount of daily work imposed upon children and by insufficient! ight. According as the time employed by them in working was 2, 4, or 6 hours per day, the proportion of nearsighted children was 17, 29, and 40 per cent. The light which they considered the most favorable to the preservation of sight is that which proceeds either from two opposite points or from a central skylight. The latter is especially recommended by these scientists for the illumination of schools.
—An insect, which produces a species of India rubber, has been recently discovered in the district of Yucatan, Central America, by an American explorer. It is called neen, and belongs to the Coccus family; feeds on the mango tree, and swarms in these regions. It is of considerable size, yellowish brown in color, and emits a peculiar oily odor. The body of this insect contains a large proportion of grease, which is highly prized by the natives for applying to the skin on account of its medical properties. When exposed to great heat the lighter oils of the grease volatilizes, leaving a tough wax, which resembles shellac, and may be used for making varnish or lacquer. When burnt, this wax, it is said, produces a thick, semi-fluid mass, like a solution of India rubber.
—Authentic details have come from Berlin of Siemen’s new electric locomotor. According to the Volk Zeitung only a technical difficulty relating to the connection of the axle with the body of the vehicle remains to be overcome before the new electric carriage is ready for use. The inventors have made an offer to work the Berlin city
railway with their electrical machinery. The firm of Siemens & Halske propose to construct a whole system of high level lines over the tops of the houses and the heads of the walkers. The pillars of the gas lamps on one side of the pavement and an iron support on the inner side are to bear the weight of this airy railroad. In the event of the project being carried out, single carriages divided into a man’s compartment and a woman’s compartment are to be attached to the electrical locomotive.
—The Antiquary says that great sensation has been excited among savants in Russia by the discovery on the shores of Lake Ladoga of sundry remains of men and animals belonging to the stone age. The bones came to light last summer, during the excavation of a new canal in connection with the Neva-Volga waterway system. On removing a layer of peat, eighteen feet deep, and composed of vegetable soil covering a .primeval forest, the navvies came across some skulls and bones. Fortunately the engineer in charge of the works happened to pass by at the time, and being a man of some slight scientific attainments, he saw the value of the discovery, and wrote to his friend Prof. Innostransteff, of the St. Petersburg University, to come and inspect it. On the arrival of the savant he announced, with joy, that the remains belonged, to the period of prehistoric man. Eight of the skulls were collected by him in excellent condition, one being provided with a lower jaw and a complete set of powerful teeth, another having, in good preservation, the osseous part of the nose. The value of the discovery may be estimated from the fact that up to the present moment, according to Prof. Tagankoff, only forty human skulls of the stone age have been found in all Europe, and only one solitary one in Russia. During the stay of the Professor at the canal cutting, several further portions of skulls were found, and a number of scattered teeth and some human bones, besides sixty bone implements, including such interesting articles as “ knives and needles.” Of the remains of wild animals, the Professor unearthed bones of the pre-historic elk, the Bos primigenius, the white bear, and the wolf.. Of domestic animals only the bones of a small dog were discovered. All these remains, together with fragments of a pre-historic oak, and numerous specimens of fish, arrived at St. Petersburg a few days ago, and will shortly be examined by a congress of Russian savants.
.	Exchanges.
—McGee's Illustrated Weekly for March 20th is a superb number, both as regards illustrations and literary matter, and we must say that Catholic Americans should feel proud of it. The illustrations which grace many of its numbers would do credit to any similar publication,—The Al~ dine not excepted, a paper that costs about four times as much as McGee's Illustrated Weekly. In the last number of the above named publication we have some very fine illustrations. The first of these-J’ainter’s Model at Rome—is nearly a full page picture, and admirably printed. The Pardon of Ploumanagh (Finistere), From the Painting of M. Sherhmitte, is a splendid double-page illustration. The others of the present number are: The Late Col. James E. McGee—From a Portrait by Brady, Washington, D. C.; Abbe Debaiye, Late French Explorer in Africa; Sisters of Charity: Sketches in the Far West—Sunday at a Frontier Town; Our Artist in Ireland—The Distress in the Parish of Cliften; and Winter Sports in Nova Scotia. The price of the Weekly is but $3 a year. Published at 121 Waverly Place, New York City.
—The Catholic Fireside, an Illustrated Monthly, Devoted to Pure Literature, and Useful Family Reading, has found its way to our sanctum, and by its neat and sprightly appearance elicited at once our attention. The Fireside is a new publication, having only reached its third number; and as its mission is “ to instruct, edify, and amuse the Catholic family ” it cannot be too highly recommended at a time when a literature, dangerous to faith and morals, virtually floods the country. Its prospectus announces that it will be published monthly, and each number will consist of forty pages, or one hundred and twenty columns of matter, divided as follows: 1, Stories; 2, Miscellany—homely elu-
T.HEf NaO.T:KE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	437
$ cidation of Catholic Doctrine, History, Biography, Travels, 5 J	Extracts from famous Authors, etc.; 3, Poetry; 4, The
/ >	Reciter’s Corner; 5, Humorous; 6, Gossip with Corres-
pondents, including information, advice, etc.; 7, The Ladies Work-Basket; 8, The Children’s Corner; 9, Personal v Record; 10, Useful Information; 11, Music, together with choice illustrations. The Supscription price of this excellent periodical, which should be found in every Catholic family, is $1 a year. Single numbers, ten cents. The Gath-olic Fireside is published by the Gatholic Fireside Publish-f ing Co., Box 3806, New York City.
—And now, after a long interval, the little Mountain Echo ' pays us a visit. How is it, brother Echo, that your visits are so few and far between ? Here you have arrived at 21, ‘ ■ and visit us only for the second time! At your first visit we made you a return call, paid our compliments, and by special agreement placed you on our list tor regular calls. Come, old boy! this will never do. You must not slight .	our condescension in this way. Ah, beg pardon—“it was
। T	not intended for a slight ’’; very good. We had scratched
p you from our list, and didn’t intend to visit you again; but we will now inscribe your name afresh. Although a little shabby in dress (we haven’t much to boast on that score / ourself, you see) you possess sterling merit, and we shall be glad to place you in the list of our acquaintances. Another quondam visitor, who came with a request to exchange and hasn’t honored the promise implied, is The 4	Volante, of Chicago University. All right, Mr. Volante;
*	we’ll be even with you. If you don’t come around soon
you need not expect us to visit you any more, that’s all. Shall it be Au revoir or Auf wieder sehen, as our friends of the 1st German class say—eh ? The rest of our college coterie are pretty regular—except The Cornell Era, The Cornell Review, and the Bates Student, perhaps, which drop in only occasionally. The University Magazine, from the University of Pennsylvania, the Virginia University Magazine, The Princetonian, Williams Athenaeum, Amherst Student, Vassar Miscellany, Harvard Echo, Queen’s College Journal, Milton College Journal, Georgetown College Journal, r Portfolio, University Press, Oberlin lieview, the Chronicle and The University, from the University of Michigan, the College Mercury, Kenyon Advance, Philomathean, Eucleian, K. M. 1. News, Niagara Index, College Message, Kalamazoo College Index, and others, are pretty regular. Ah, we had ‘ almost forgotten—the Monmouth College Courier, wishes to know wliy we have neglected to pay Monmouth a visit. To which we answer that the apparent neglect on our part was altogether unintentional, and we beg pardon for it;
a will that do ?
New Publications.
The Last Jourxet axd Memorials or the Redebdmer; or, Via Gruels as it is in Jerusalem, with Typographical, Archaeological, Historical, Traditional, and Scriptural notes. By Rev. J. J. Begel, Pilgrim, to the Holy Places. Catholic Publication Society, 9 Barclay Street, New York, 1880.
This is no ordinnay woft—it is, in fact, a work of great merit. It bears the imprimatur of His Eminence Cardinal McCioskey, and the approbation of Right Rev. Dr. Gilmour, Bishop of Cleveland. One especial feature about this new publication is, that it is original in design and general plan. It presents to us numerous engravings—all replete with interest to those professing to be Christians; in a word, the work before us is a plain and comprehensive history and exposition of the Sacred Passion and Death of our Divine Lord, and as such recommends itself to Catholics in general, especially at this season of the year, when the Church of God calls upon her children to meditate upon, and ponder well in their hearts all that Christ has done and suffered for love of us. The engravings show the actual stations of the Cross, all the way from the Garden of Olives to the Hill of Calvary; and these, together with passages quoted from Holy Scripture, explanatory of the same; the historical notes and pious reflections taken, for the most part, from the Scriptures themselves and the writings of the Fathers, are remarkable features of the work, and cannot fail to elicit the attention of pious souls. The work should be also prized by those interested in archaeological lore. The typo
graphy of the Temple and its vicinity, the Chapel of the Crowning, the Entrance Door to the Holy Sepulchre, both interior and exterior, show that the sketches were not made by one “ who never saw Jerusalem except at the bottom of his chimerical brain.” The facsimile of the title of the Cross, written in three languages, together with drawings of the instruments of the Passion, are worthy of note. On page 34 and 37 the antiquarian will find much erudition, together with careful research, adduced to prove the authenticity of Calvary and the Holy Sepulchre. In fine, this excellent publication should find its way into every Catholic household; as we know of no better means of assisting and keeping alive that faith in the Passion and Death of our Divine Lord, than by its careful perusal.
College Gossip.
—The Bicycle Club at Harvard has over eighty members.
—The Dartmouth Nine has been helped by an exhibition given for its benefit.
—The University of Brussels has, for thejfirst time, admitted a lady as a student of science.—Harvard, Echo.
—It is said that Union College has a Hare and a Hound Association. We hope the hound don’t get alter the hare.
—Mr. Ruskin commences lecturing on March 17, before the London Institution. The lecture is very appropriate, the subject being “ A Caution to Snakes.”
—It is stated that the Duke of Abercorn will, under the charter of the new Irish University, be appointed Chancellor. The Senate will be composed of 18 Protestants of all denominations and 18 Catholics.
—The Columbia boat house was entered recently, and holes knocked in the bottoms of three singles, two fours, and a six-oared gig. It was probably done out of spite to the club, as other boats belonging to the classes were not injured.—Harvard Echo.
—M. C. Cameron, M. P-, recently founded a scholarship of $60 a year in Queen’s College, Kingston, Canada, to be known as me M. C. Cameron Gaelic Scholarship, and to be awarded to the beat Gaelic scholar or speaker. The founder has nominated the holder of the scholarship for this session; hereafter the college senate makes the appointment. A good example. Next! We have a Gaelic teacher at Notre Dame, but so far no chair of Gaelic has been established. No demands, we presume.
—Prof. Richard A Proctor has prepared two new lectures on “The Immensity of Space” and “The Vastness of Time.” The Professor has certainly tackled a couple of big things, and he may be able to get away with both. He cannot say too much for space, nor take too long for time. —Ex. And yet he fills very little of the one, and possesses less of the other that he can call his own. What about the eternal Hereafter, to which time is but as a drop to the ocean ? Not much said about it by the average “ scientific’’man.	'	’
—The death is announced of Very Rev. Dr. Russell, President of St. Patrick’s College, Maynooth, Ireland. This distinguished divine and scholar died on the 26m of Feb. last; and in him Maynooth has lost a most noble champion of religion and truth. Dr. Russell was born at Kil-lough, County Down, in 1812, and received his classical training in that same noble institution whose President lie was afterwards destined to become. He was an indefatigable laborer. He translated from the German, along with Rev. M. Kelly, Canon Von Schmid’s “Tales” (three volumes, 1846); was the sole translator of “Leibnitz’ System of Theology ” (1850), to which he added an introduction and notes, contributed to the Dublin, Edinburg and North British Reviews. He was author of a “Lite oi Cardinal Mezzo-ianti ” (1858); became in 1869 a member of the Historical Manuscript Commission for Ireland; presented to Lord Romily, Master of the Rolls, in 1871, along with Mr. J. P. Prendergast, a “ Report on the Carle MSS. in the Bodleian Library,” and prepared an elaborate “Calendar of Stare Papers” relating to Ireland, of the reign of James I. (3 vols., 1872-5). Dr. Russell was one of the most accomplished priests of the Irish Catholic Church,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, Marcti. 20, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Ter Annum, Tostpaid,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a suscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he win confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usuaUy, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The lecture delivered on the 17th by Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. 8. 0., Vice-President of the University, in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, was an able effort.. The Rev. lecturer’s eloquence never appeared to better advantage, and his theme—the glories and achievements of St. Patrick and the Irish nation—a most suitable one, by the way, for bringing out elocutionary powers—was done ample justice to; indeed, it surpassed anything of the kind we have heard at Notre Dame for some time.
Father Walsh began by saying: If it be true that the greatness of men is to be estimated according to the depth and permanence of the impression they have left on the minds of their fellow-men, what names are fit to figure beside those of a Boniface, a Remigius, an Augustine, or a Patrick—those apostolic men, who have brought whole nations from the darkness of idolatry and barbarism to the light of civilization and truth. The Church applied to her Apostles the words of the Psalmist, In omnem terram exivit sonus eorum,—and in whose case had they been more clearly verified than in that of St. Patrick? A brief glance was then taken at the life and labors of the [great Apostle of Ireland, and the special characteristics of his apostolate were pointed out. In the annals of Christianity there was no page to compare with the glory of Ireland’s conversion. Attention was called to the prominent, not to say preeminent part taken by the Church of Ireland, from the fifth to the eighth century, in the work of Christianizing the races of Western Europe, and in the diffusion of secular and sacred knowledge. And when the storm came, it only served to show the stability of Patrick’s work. Without any unnecessaiy detail, the successive persecutions to which Ireland had within the last thousand years been
subjected were mentioned, and it was shown that Ireland’s Catholicity—like the mountain oak over which storms beat in vain—had ever remained unharmed. The celebration of St. Patrick’s Day is a loud-spoken protestation on the part of Irish people of their belief that though victory is not always to the right, glory is yet inseparable from it. He concluded by reminding his hearers that the recalling of the virtues and triumphs of Ireland’s saints and heroes ought to be something more than an empty commemoration of the past. It should be remembered that high privileges always carry with them great responsibilities; that with the Irish of to-day, and their descendants, rests the glorious task of perpetuating the traditions of fourteen centuries; and that to boast of the constancy of Ireland’s saints and heroes, without being disposed to imitate them in their willingness to make sacrifices at duty’s call, and to sing in trumpet-tones the greatness of Ireland’s Apostle, without imitating those virtues which made him great, would be a mockery and a delusion.
To-morrow, Palm Sunday—Dominica Palmarum—is the day on which our Holy Mother the Church commemorates the triumphal entry of our Divine Lord into Jerusalem, as the promised Messiah sent by God for the salvation of the world, and makes her Office expressive both of joy and sorrow; of joy, by the solemn blessing of palm branches, or other green boughs, which are given to the faithful, and carried aloft in solemn procession; and of sorrow, inasmuch as it is on this day that the Passion of our Lord is solemnly chanted for the first time by three deacons. Hence, the compassionating of His sufferings for the sins of mankind, which may be considered to commence from this day. For although our Lord received a triumphal entry He could not help weeping over the blindness of the children of David, who were within three days to cover Him with insults and blasphemy, and finally to put Him to death on the Cross.
The entrance of our Lord into Jerusalem on this day is a figure of His glorious Resurrection, and is a subject for deep thought and serious reflection to all. In it we see the wisdom and goodness of God manifested in a wonderful manner; and in it, that liberty of action and free will of man is nowhere better illustrated. The Church, then, in her ceremonies of this day recalls to the minds of her children the shortness and uncertainty of life, and the transient glory of earthly greatness.*- She reminds’ them that they are but pilgrims here below; for, as we read in Heb., xiii, 14, “ we have no permanent city, but we seek one to come”; and in Galat., iv, 26, our true home is not this world, but “ the Jerusalem which is above.”
The custom of blessing palms, or other green branches, on this day is very ancient, as we may learn from the testimony of St. Cyril, and from the life of St. Euthymius, of the fourth and sixth centuries, respectively. After the blessing and distributing of the palms a procession is formed, which moves slowly around the church,—the celebrant priest, ministers and clergy, all holding their palms aloft, and singing the hymns commemorative of the event, and which the Church has appointed for this occasion. The procession goes outside the door of the church,—but two or three of the chanters remain within, and answer the alternative verses of that beautiful hymn, Gloria laus, etc. On the procession returning to the door of the church, it is found closed, and is opened only when the sub-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	439
if
deacon strikes it thrice with the foot of the cross, reminding us that the gate of Heaven was closed by sin, and that it could be opened only by the Passion and ignominious death of Christ on the Cross. The procession then enters the church, and proceeds to the sanctuary, where, after the celebrant having washed his hands, Solemn High Mass is commenced.	'
There are few festivals that have connected with them so much interest as Palm Sunday. It reminds us of the bonds of sin that firmly held the world, prior to the coming of Christ. It reminds us also that Christ came to save the world, and to give Himself up for it—to suffer the excruciating pains of crucifixion, in order to take away the world’s transgression, and to rule in peace and equity among a faithful and a pious people.
To Americans especially, Palm Sunday should have more than an ordinary interest, as it was on this day that Ponce de Leon landed on the Southern Coast of North America, and gave to that country the name of Pascua Florida—Easter in bloom—from the number and variety of the flowers which he found strewn in every direction.
Palm Sunday should, then, be celebrated in a two-fold manner,—with a remembrance of the Death and glorious Resurrection of our Divine Lord and Master.
Th© Entertainment.
Among the many celebrations that take place at Notre Dame during the scholastic year, that of St. Patrick’s Day holds a conspicuous position—in fact, there is no other feast, or festival, that has connected with it so much enthusiasm and genuine good fellowship as the seventeenth of March, the natal day of Ireland’s Patron Saint. Hence the many and serious preparations made for weeks previous ; the eagerness displayed by all who are to take part in the celebration, and the joy that fills their hearts when everything comes off well.
On last Tuesday evening, then, a public Entertainment was given at Washington Hall by the members of the Columbian Dramatic Club, and we must say that it was an Entertainment in every sense of the term—good, very good, from beginning to end. The programme of the evening was varied, and of an interesting nature. Precisely at seven o’clock the beautiful strains of the Band burst forth, as the officers of the University entered the Hall, and the evening’s Entertainment began. After the music by the Band had ceased, Mr. T. W. Simms came forth and delivered an eloquent oration on “St. Patrick.” Mr. Simms has a fine voice, and his gestures, delivery, etc., showed at once that he has already advanced far in the art of oratory. His oration, as to its subject matter, was everything that could be desired; and during its delivery he was hailed with repeated rounds of applause.
Mr. R. O’Brien was the next gentleman that made his appearance upon the stage. He read a well-written and carefully prepared address to Rev. P. W. Condon, Prefect of Discipline, to whom the whole Entertainment was complimentary. Mr. O’Brien did well, and retired with won laurels.
The next principal feature of the Entertainment was the overture—“ Dame Blanche”—by the Orchestra. It is almost useless to say that this piece was admirably rendered. The Orchestra is noted for its fine music, and what we can say in praise of it is already known to all at Notre
Dame, and to those who attend the Entertainments given here. The play, a drama in three acts, was then commenced ; and all who took part in it acquitted themselves well. The names of those who took principal characters are as follows: George Donnelly, Harry Simms, Albert Zahm, Charles Hagan, James Delaney, William Connelly, Thomas Conlan, Thomas Cavanagh, Frank Reeves, Sydney Smith, Frank Bell, and Hector Dulaney.
Messrs. G. Donnelly and H. Simms, the “ Twin Brothers,” took their part very well, and their acting was sometimes admired by all. Mr. Donnelly has made wonderful progress since we last saw him on the stage; and we do not fear to affirm that after a little more practice, he will be one of the stars of the Columbian Dramatic Club. There is another that we cannot let pass without complimenting him upon his success; it is Charles Hagan. He was just the right man in the right place, on last Tuesday evening. His acting was very good; the role which he assumed was taken to perfection,—at least there was nothing unnatural about it. Albert Zahm took his part very well, as also did J. Delaney and W. Connelly; in a word, all those young gentlemen we have already enumerated acquitted themselves in a most creditable manner. The following young gentlemen also took part in the Entertainment, and acquitted themselves well: William Wathen, Joseph Smith, Frank Kinsella, Robert O’Brien, Hugh Deehan, Charles Caren, Frank Clarke, Jacob Rietz, Charles Zarley, W. Jones, Warren Schofield, M. Falvey, M. English.
After the first act, a beautiful selection of Irish airs was played by the Band—an organization which, by the way, is progressing rapidly, in the way of musical progress.
At the conclusion of the whole performance, Rev. Father Condon made a few thoughtful remarks upon all that had taken place; complimented the young gentlemen for the faithful rendition of their various parts, and then; amid the well-known strains of “ Yanke Doodle,” “ St. Patrick’s Day,” and other beautiful airs, the large audience slowly quitted the Hall, and betook themselves to their respective homes. Thus the principal part of St. Patrick’s Day celebration at Notre Dame past into history; and twelve long months will pass over our heads before the Columbians will again come forward and do justice to ^themselves, and to the institution they represent, by their good acting. But we almost forgot to mention the name of Prof. Edwards, upon whose taste and guidance the dramatic part of the Entertainment depended. Prof. Edwards certainly deserves credit and high commendation for the good taste displayed in the costumes, the scenery, and everything connected with one of the most excellent Entertainments ever given at Notre Dame.
Personal.
—Louis Herb, ’67, is in the brewery business, Dubuque, Iowa.
—Frank Pleins (Commercial), ’79, is’clerking in a drugstore, Dubuque, Iowa.
—William Sullivan, ’68, is Advance Agent for Mlle. Rose D’ Erina, at Dubuque, Iowa.
—Rev. James Gleason, C. S. C., has gone to assist Rev. Father Toohey, C. S. C., in his missionary labors, at Lead City, Dakota.
—Among the numerous visitors at Notre Dame for the past week were Mr. T. Nelson and lady, Chicago; Mr. Mug, Lafayette, Ind.
—Mait Cross. (Commercial), ’77, is book-keeper in the
410	TH$ NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
grocery establishment of Messrs. Kellog & Johnson, Rochester, Olmsted Co., Minnesota.
—Col. Dallas, U. S. A., and lady, have visited Notre Dame, during the past week. Col. Dallas is ever a most welcome visitor here.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., who was lately appointed pastor of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., will continue to give missions as usual, together with taking charge of the above named parish.	-
—Rev. Father Toohey, C. S. C., formerly a Professor here, but now a missionary in Dakota, had a pleasant little ride of fifteen miles, by night, a week or two ago, to attend a sick call in a distant part of his mission. He is in excellent health and spirits, as usual.
—Joseph C. Heinz, (Commercial), ’69, is connected with the Denver & Rio Grande Rail way, and is at present residing at Colerado Springs, Colo. He has also an interest in several Leadville mines from which he expects—as Mr. Heinz himself says in a letter recently received by his old Professor, J. A. Lyons—to derive wealth enough to make his dear old Alma Jifater a handsome present. Such words speak well lor tne regard in which the old students hold Notre Dame, and we knew we were right when we asserted a lew weeks ago, that Notre Dame is not iorgot-ten by the greater uumner oi uiose who nave spent any time within her walls. Mr. J. C. Heinz is indeed favorably remembered here. We heard his old Proiessor, the genial J. A. Lyons, say a few days ago that a belter young man he never had than the atoresaiu, Joe. C. Heinz The Scholastic wishes him every success, and hopes that out ol the wealtu he will accumulate in the railroad and mine business, he may give tne Scholastic the price of a new dress, as the poor tning did not receive anything in this line lor a number of years, and consequently would be overjoyed by the reception oi such a gift.
Local Items.
—One week more and Lent is over.
—Fair and frosty weather is now on the programme.
—Many of the students displayed very neat and pretty badges on St. Patrick’s Day.
—The Band was out serenading on the 17th. Some very line Irish airs were rendered.
—The closing remarks at the Entertainment by Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., speak for themselves
—Vespers to-morrow are the Common of Sunday, page 33 of the Vesperal. Missa Parvulorum will be sung.
—The Director of the Manual Labor School was presented with a beautiful address on St. Patrick’s Day.
—Last Wednesday, being a most beautiful day, the students all enjoyed themselves to their heart’s content.
—The beautilul and interesting play of the Columbians is no w the geneial topic of conversation among the students
—As an old custom al Notre Dame, the students remained out until supper time, on the evening of the seventeenth.
—The improvements which are being made near St. Mary’s lake will add greatly to the beauty of the surroundings.
—Rev. T. E. Walsh, Vice-President, lectured in St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, Ind., on the evening of the seventeenth.
—Bro. Hugh sported a genuine shamrock on St. Patrick’s Day. We believe it was presented to him by Rev. P. W. Condon.
—The Entertainment on last Tuesday evening was well attended, many being- present from Chicago, South Bend, and the neighboring cities.
—The jaybirds have been around for some time, and are commencing to be quite noisy at present, which is a sign, we suppose, of approaching spring.
—Every one should provide himself with a copy of the “ Office of Holy Week,” as by this means he can follow next week’s ceremonies, and enter into their spirit.
—Rev. J. A. O'Connell, C. S. C-, lectured on St. Patrick’s Day in the Church of St. Vincent de Paul, Elkhart, Ind. His subject was, of course, the Great Apostle of Ireland.
—On Saturday morning last, Mr. Geo. E. Clarke of the Law Department, delivered a very entertaining and instructive lecture on “ Corporations ” before the Commercial students.
—The elegant gold watch, which was raffled in the rotunda of the College building on the 17th, to aid in the erection of the new Music Hall, was won by Mrs. J. Coppinger, Alton, Ill.
—“J. E.” desires us to announce to his Wisconsin friends that he is uot Local Editor of the Scholastic; that he retired from this unenviable position during the Christmas holidays.
—Tne regular meeting of the Guardian Angels’ Society was held Sunday evening, March 14th. Tne minutes of the previous meeting were read and adopted. Servers for St. Patrick’s Day were appointed.
—If it is to make themselves significant that some take their places in the rear of the Prep’s ranks, they lose their point; as they are only thrown in the shade by those who are head and shoulders over them.
—To-morrow, being Palm Sunday, the solemn blessing of the palms, followed by a procession, will take place immediately belore Mass. At this Mass, the Passion will be sung by three deacons; the part oi the rabble will be taken by a choir of four voices.
—Our friend John could not get around on last Wednesday. He eat a little too hearty a breakfast; and we must remember eggs produce a depressing kind of a feeling, especially when indulged in too freely. Mistakes, of course, will sometimes happen.
—Prof. J. F. Edwards deserves special commendation for the excellent manner in which everything connected with the Entertainment tor the celebration of St. Patrick’s Day was presented—tableaux, sceneries, costumes, etc., were the richest and best we have ever seen ar Notre Dame.
—“Where! oh, where is my little dog gone!” said our friend John last Wednesday, when striving to imitate the song sung at the play the evening previous. Yes: our friend did open his mouth—and so wide too, that not a little dog, but a pretty big one, might walk down stairs without the least trouble.
—On St. Patrick’s Day, Solemn High Mass was sung by Very Rev. W. Corby, assisted by Rev. N. Stoliel, as deacon and Rev. J. Rodgers, as subdeacon. Mr. Regan was master of ceremonies. Tne preacher on the occasion was Rev. T. E. Walsh, who delievered an excellent panegyric on the Great Apostle of Ireland.
—All who have heard the beautiful pieces played by the Band, on last Tuesday evening and Wednesday, will readily grant that this organization cannot be excelled in the rendition of choice music by inose of former years. The .Band is evidently' in good order, and deserves all the praise we can bestow upon it.
—There was a large audience at Notre Dame last night, to see the members of the Columbian Society, in the play of the “ Corsican Brothers.” It is hardly necessary to say that the play was put upon the stage in the most creditable manner, and that each performer contributed to make the acting a success. Notie Dame students excel in this.— South Bend Tribune.
—Wonder what the students at Notre Dame, Indiana, think of these rainy Sundays and Wednesdays? We remember that once they determined to petition the college authorities to change the recreation day from Wednesday to Thursday, just on account of the recurrence of rainy Wednesdays.—Heo. B. A. Clarke, in The Catholic Columbian.
—Next week being Holy Week, the Office of Tenebra will be chanted in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday evenings, commencing at half-past seven o’clock. On Wednesday and Thursday evenings, the first and third Lamentations of the first nocturn will be sung by a choir of four voices; and on Friday evening the first Lamentation of the first nocturn will be sung in the same manner.

The jtotre dame scholastic.
441
—The latest outrage is the sending of Penn’s aunts into the pastry business. Nearly all the college papers have an item speaking of the “ Pie rates of Penn’s aunts,” and we see by reference to the Scholastic’s “ Art, Music, and Literary Notes,” that a Bostonian has written a burlesque on Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan’s latest opera. We think that if Penn’s aunts could speak for themselves, they would be highly indignant at the way in which their names are brought into the pie business, by those “ crusty ” newspaper men.
—The plastering of the College extension—to which we had the week before last occasion to allude, as being very well done and exhibiting superior workmanship to most of this kind of .work which we have seen in buildings of a similar nature to the University of Notre Dame—has been done by P. H. Degnan and Bro., Plain and Ornamental Plasterers, 160 and 162 Water street, Toledo, Ohio. The Degnan Bros, are reliable gentlemen, and we have no hesitation in recommending them to all who need good work done at a reasonable price.
—The fifth regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary, (Senior Department) was held on Sunday evening, March 14th. There were present Very Kev. Fathers Granger and Corby, Rev. Father Stoffel, and Bros. Theodore and Marcellinus. Mr. McEnery, Conlan and Larkin read papers. The following officers were elected for the ensuing session: Rev. Thos. E. Walsb, Director; J. B. McGrath, President; A. J. Burger, Vice-President; W. B. McGor-risk, Recording Secretary; J. B. Berteling, Corresponding Secretary; G. E. Clarke, Treasurer.
—St. Mary’s Academy, whose name is familiar, and whose usefulness is known from ocean to ocean, and from the bay of Passamaquoddy to the Rio Grande, is beautifully, nay, romantically situated, one mile from the University of Notre Dame, and two miles from South Bend. It has an independent management, though it is in sympathy with its neighboring school. Here, by the assiduous care, and intelligent teachings of a large corps of ladies, mostly Sisters of the Holy Cross, young women and girls are prepared for the arduous duties of life, while their footsteps are guided in the path which leads through usefulness and purity to felicity and peace. It is impossible too speak to highly of this model institution. In the beautiful summer-time, when the fervid sun stands still at the end of his northward journey ; when the groves are vocal with the songs of their leathery tenants, and the breath of flora imparts a delightful fragrance to the air; when the voice of rippling waters charms, and shadowy retreats invite; then seek the secluded spot where St. Mary rules, observe the modest graces of the young academicians, listen to the music of voice or touch which they display, and admire the evidences of progress which they present; then shall you realize something of the usefulness and triumphs of this noble school.—Turner's Annual.
—One would be lead to imagine on looking at the reckless havoc Sir. Daly is making on the fruit-trees in the orchards about the College, that the destructive spirit of George Washington, who, in his boyish days, did destroy the English cherry-tree, bad revived in his brains; and that this self-same tree destroyer was acting in opposition to every law in regard to the science of pomology, or of any other ology; for when he marks his victim in the form of an “ out-of-place-branch ” or a deceased limb, there is no use of remonstrance, it must go—it must fall a prey to the greedy ax and the grating saw, which make the air resound with its whack, whack, whack, or saw, saw, saw, while the moter himself is lead to consider the fate of the barren tree mentioned in Scripture. Last Wednesday we took a walk by the place that presented the scene of operation, and there we found Mr. Daly standing on terra firma, after taking to the ground a branch almost as large as the tree itself, which at once suggested to our mind, that he was about to cut down all the trees and plant the branches, or something to that effect. But Mr. Daly did not feel the least disconcerted, and quietly answered our remarks by a quotation from Alexander, Pope, which runs: “ What is, is best when rightly understood; what’s partial evil is universal good.” And then went on to say, that the twig of to-day is the branch of to-morrow, and a
limb of obstruction in the near future; so that it became apparent what he was “driving at,” namely; “ the laws of symmetry and of health,” as he was afterwards pleased to divulge. And so Mr. Daly continues to observe the laws of health in regard to the orchards; but whether he observes these same laws in regard to himself we cannot say.
—The following able notice of Maurice F. Egan’s" Preludes ” was given by the literary editor of the University, one of the two masterly papers puplished at the University of Michigan. We have received a few others from other sources, but withhold them, and when all are received we will close with a complimentary notice from the great Amer ican poet, Longfellow, recently sent by that gentleman to a young friend, Rev. D. E. Hudson, Editor of the Ave Maria. The editor of the University says: “An attractive little volume, entitled “Preludes ” comes to our hands,from the pen of Maurice F. Egan, and is published, as indicated in the preface,to aid in rebuilding the University of Notre Dame (Indiana), which was destroyed by fire last April. The “ Preludes” comprise about forty sonnets, a number of translations from Theocritus, and a few other songs. While the author succeeds well in the more difficult styles of the sonnet, it in the paraphrases from Theocritus that he is best; he seems to have a genuine love and appreciation of the Sicilian poet. Indeed, no better teacher could be chosen than the originator and leader of pastoral song, whose influence may be so plainly traced in the Bucolic of Virgil, the Lycidas of Milton, and the Idyls of Tennyson. One ot Mr. Egan’s most pleasing sonnets is addressed to Theocritis. The Sleeping Song from the twenty-fourth Idyl is especially well rendered, and has the harmony and simplicity of the original. The paraphrase of the eleventh Idyl, Cyclops to Galatea, is also admirable. In the original poems of Mr. Egan there is much which commends itself to one’s thought and feeling, for its delicacy and beauty of expression. To show the quality of his verse, we give a portion of a poem suggesied to the author on reading “ Out of Sweet Solitude ”:
“ How blind we are, how deaf, how void of sense— The finer sense that sees the good around, That hears the angels when there is no sonnd, Finds silence music, muteness eloquence.
Ah, if we knew (’tis seeing through a wall)
The golden art which the great poet gave In Arden's forest to his Jacques the grave, • Of hearing soundless words and good in all.
We would be wiser in God’s little things—
Things grand and sweet beyond mere human speech, So, when an angel came within our reach,
We’d hear the benediction of his wings.”
RoH of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. C. Adams, R. M. Anderson, J. B. Berteling, J. P. Brice, F. M. Bell, B. J. Claggett, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. E. Clarke, F. Clarke, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, H. Delaney, D. Danahy, L. Clements, G. Donnelly, H. Deehan, A. Dobson, M. English, E. Gooley, G. Harris, C. John-son, It Johnson, C. Karens, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, P. Larkin, E. Lynch,F. Lynch, R. Lanaham, J. McGrath, W. McGorrisk,E. Mc-Gorrisk, M. McEnary, J. McNamara, E. Murphy, P. McCormick, C. Moore, J. A. McIntyre, W. McAtee, T. A Mattingly, L. Mathers, J. Noonan, G. Nester, I. J. Newton, H. Noble, R. C. O’Brien, J. O’Reilly, J. Osher, G. Pike, B. H. Pollock, L. N. Proctor, W. Ryan, H. Simms, G. Sugg, J. Strawn, J. Solon, L. Stitzel, T. Simms, P. Shea, J. Smith, L. Smith, F. Smith, W. Wilson, C. Whalen, H. Wathen, A. Zahm, T. Zeien, C. Zarley.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Brown, A. Barger, C. Brinkman, A. Bodine, F. Becker, M. Bums, M. G. Butler, V. Butler, G. C. Castanedo, F. Carter, A A. Caren, E. A Croarkin, A M. Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, E. A. Conyne, J. Coleman, J. Devitt, H. Devitt, S. Dering, F. Dever, J. E. Davis, G. W. De Haven, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Flemming, G. C. Foster, H. G. Foote, P. J. Fletcher, J. J. Gordon, F. Grever, J. Guthrie, J. Gibbons, A. J. Hintze, J. A Hermann, J. Homan, R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, J. M. Kelly, F. A Kleine, J; E. Litmer,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
S. Livingston, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, J. E. McCarthy, A. 8. Manning, J. H. Meister, P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, A. Otis, F. Phillips, G. Quinn, A. Rietz, W. Kietz, G. J. Rhodius, J. Ruppe, H. Rose, C. Kose, A. 8. Rock, A. N. Rohrback, R. J. Semmes, J. A. Simms, J. K. Schobey, A. P. Perley, E. G. Sugg, J. Seeger, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, 0. A. Tinley, C. H. Thiele, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, W. T. Weny, A. T. Tate.
minim department.
C. E. Droste, J. M. Courtney, D. G. Taylor, J. S. Court, ney, E. A. Howard, H. P. Dunn, G. E. Tourtillotte, G. P. Van Mourick, W. H. Hanavin, J. A. Campau, A. Van Mourick, G. C. Knight, H. C. Snee, G. Woodson, C. C. Echlin, J. J. Henry, J. W. Bannister, J. 8. Chaves, W. M. Olds, J. Dwenger, H. J. Ackerman, F. B. Farrelly, J. A. Kelly, W. V. O’Malley, E. C. Campau, J. R. Bender, A. A. Molander, J. E. Johnson, E.N. O’Donnell, L. J. Young, E. H. Bourdon, A.F. Schmuekle, C. Young, W. Ayers, H. A. Kitz, E. L. Oatman.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE C0UBSE.
J. B. McGrath, A. J. Burger, J. P. Kenny, J. B. Berteling, F. W. Bloom, R. Anderson, H. Wathen, M. McEniry, D. Harrington, W- McGorrisk, A. Zahm, M. T. Burns, W. J. McCarthy, T. Simms, J Noonan, A. S. Rock, F. Grever, P. Larkin.
The List of Excellence for the Collegiate Course will he published next week. The names of 0. H. Karens and R. Lanham were omitted from the List of Excellence, for Reading and Orthography, last week.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—At High Mass, on Sunday, the Passion was preached by Rev. Father Hudson.
—At the regular meeting of St. Cecilia’s Society the subject of the lecture was the Antiquity of Music.
—At the regular meeting of St. Catharine’s Literary Society the reading was from “ Impressions of Spain,” by Lady Herbert.
—At the regular meeting of St. Teresa’s Literary Society the reading was continued irom “ The History ot Ireland, as told in her Ruins.”
—At the regular meeting of St. Angela’s Literary Society the reading was from “ An Account of Travels in Bavaria,” by Rev. Gr. H. Doane.
—Al the regular meeting of St. Gertrude’s German Literary Society the reading was “Aus der Deutchen Gescluclite,” “ Der uackereKronphrinz.'3 Reader: Miss Gall.
—At the regular meeting of St. Agnes’s Literary Society the reading was “Herman Joseph” from the Ave Maria. Reader: Sophia Papin. An accurate account was given by Catharine Lancaster.
—At the regular meeting of St. Clotilde’s French Literary Society the reading was “ Une esquisse sur Mme. De Maintenon,” “ VEtablissemeni de St. Cyr,” and “Les Petits Portraits des Grandes Dames-” “Une Demoiselle Sentimentale,” by T. D’Antimorre.
—At the regular Academic reunion the reading was “Through Death to Life,” Henry Harbaugh, by Miss Kirchner; “Der Bluhende Strauch” by Miss Usselman,-“La Parole dune Bonne Mere,” “journal des Jeunes Per-sonnes,” by Miss Rosing; and “The Vision of the Wounds,” Eleanor C. Donnelly, by Miss Cavenor.
—At the regular reunion in the Junior Department the reading was “Rain on the Roof,” Coates Kinny, by E. Hackett; “ Plesson el son Araignee,” by L. Populorum; “Bei Anndlu/rung des Braidings,” by C. Ginz; ana “Keeping his Word,” Mrs. Preston, by Marie Garrity. The Rev.
Chaplain distributed the points, and commended the little girls.
—Visitors: Col. Alex. J. Dallas, Mrs. Alex. J. Dallas, U. S. Army; Mr. Lemontey, Washington, La.; Mr. Ginz, South Bend; Mr. Danaher, Ludington, Mich.; Mrs. Kin-sie, Mrs. Knighton, Mr. Kinsley, Chicago; Mr. Bartlett, Battle Creek, Mich.; Mr. Swayze, Richland, Iowa; Mr. Stilson, Detroit, Mich.; Mrs. Gilbert, Miss Gilbert, Louisville, Ky.; Mr. and Mrs. Hansen, Memphis, Tenn.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONOBABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Gbaduating Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 1st Class —Mieses Buck, Gordon. 2d Div.—Misses Sullivan, Usselman, Neu. 2d Class—Misses Kirchner, Campbell, Rosing, Killelea, Farrell. 2d Drv.—Misses McMahon, Hackley. 3d Class— Misses McGrath, Semmes, Callman, Salomon, Gall, Reinhard, Bruser, Wells, Piersol, Cortright, Maloney. 2d Div.—Misses C. Hackett, Julius, Donnelly, Woodin, H. Hackett, Bischoff, English, A. Ewing, Horner. 4th Class—Misses Davis, Crum-mey, Price, Cavenor, Palmer, C. Campbell. 2d Div.—Misses Garrity, Otto, French, Fox, Mitchell, Van Namee, Leydon, Wurzburg. 5th Class—Misses O’Connor, Purdy, C. Wathen, Regensburg, Loeber, Keys, Brown, Danaher, Casey, O’Neill, A. Dillon, Gavan. 2d Div.—Misses Orr, Dessaint, Cronin, Harrison, Legnard, Lancaster, Paddock, L. Wells, Hutchinson, Gibbons, Hammond, Feehan, Simms, 8. Wathen, Reutlinger, Wall, Populorum, C. Lancaster, Moxon, Lloyd, Thompson, E. Populorum, M. Fitzgerald. 6th Class—Misses Rasche, Fleming, Barlow,,Duncan, McFadden, Greenebaum, Murphy, De Lapp, Neteler, Baroux, Ryan, Papin, E. Ryan, Chirhart, Knighton, Carter. 2d Drv.—Misses Fishburne, Ginz, G. Taylor, Zimmerman, Clarke, Ward, Edelen, Taylor, Cox, Moll, Lemon-tey, Wright, Wilkins. 7th Class—Misses Engel, E. Lloyd, Halloran, Smith, Reynolds, McCormick, McCoy, I. Hackett, McCloskey. 8th Classs —Misses Fisk, B. Garrity, Butts, Cleg* horn, Heeney. 9th Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, M. Baroux, Chaves. 10th Glas—Misses Strawn, P. Ewing, T. Ewing.
Habp—1st Class—Miss Galen. 2d Div.—Misses I. Semmes, Dillon. 3d Class—Miss Bruser.
Okgan—Misses C. and S. Wathen.
Pbivate Harmony.—1st Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon, Gordon, Buck, Usselman, Neu.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Kirchner, Gordon. 2d Class —Misses Usselman, Hackett. 3d Glass—Misses Bruser, Rosing, Farrell, O’Connor, Sullivan, Callman, Buck, Salomon, Julius, McGrath. 4th Class—Misses O’Neill, Semmes, Ono, E. Hackett, French, Mitchell, Purdy, Wells, Hackley, Davis. 5th Class —Misses English, Moxon, Simms, Edeleu, McMahon, Brown, Greenebaum, Regensburg, Rasche, G. Wathen, Halloran, McCoy.
Chorus Class—Misses Cavenor, Populorum, Lemonty, Hutchinson, A. Ewing, Dillon, Gibbons, Gmz, Gasey, Bulls, Price, Zahm, McFadden, Harrison, Ryan, Keena.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DBAWING.
2d Class—Misses Fox, Lancaster, C. Lancaster, J. Wells, Thompson, Wall, Casey, Loeber. 3d Class—Misses Gallinan, Feeban, Baroux, Horner, Hammond, Orummey, Barber, B. Garrity.
painting in wateb-colobs.
2d Class—Misses Sullivan, Papin, French. 3d Class— Misses Otto, Winston, Butts.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Glass—Misses Neteier, Hambleton, Buck. 2d Class —Misses Cortright, L Semmes, Killelea, A. Ewing, Dillon; Gavan, DessaiuL 3d Class—Misses G. Campbell, Zahm, English.
GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Misses A. Ryan, C. Hackett, Fitzgerald, Murphy, Halloran, Quinn, Simms, Edelen. Rasche.
Junior Department—Misses E. Populorum, Duncan, Hutchison, A. Dillon, Carter, G. Ryan, E. Ryan, P- Ewing, T. Ewing, McCloskey, Haney, Harrison, Considine, E. Papin, Knighton.
Ornamental Needlewobk.—Misses Quinn, Danaher, Otto, Gavau, Mitchell, Smith, Donnelly, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Murphy, Gallinan, Orr, Populorum, Piersol, Wall, Hammond, Rasche, Thompson, Reinhard, Halloran, Salomon, Horner, Cox, McCloskey, E. Populorum, Papin, Carter, Gibbons, Wilkins, E. Papin.
Plain Sewing—Misses Ewing, Gordon, Sullivan, Wall, Lancaster, Horner, Reinhard, Winston.
Genebal Mending—1st Glass—Misses Ewing, Gordon, Usselman, Ward, Ryan, Cortright, Rosing, Danaher, Loeber, Neu, Bischoff, Wall, Hamilton, Zahm, Salomon, Purdy, Lloyd.
2d Glass—Misses Sullivan, A. Ewing, Reinhard, Hackley, Mitchell, Winston, Danaher, Gall, Keys, Wells, Wright. 3d
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
443
»
Class—Misses Lancaster, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Callihan, Thompson, Cox, Hammond, Reynolds, Moxon De Lapp, Bar-oux.
'	Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITRNBSS, NEATNBS8, ORDBR, AMIABILITY, AND COBBBCT •	DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, 'Killelea, McGrath, Ewing, Maloney, Neteler, Sullivan, Ward, A. Ryan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, Kirchner, Gordon, 1. Semmes, Dillon, Otto, Usselman, Mitchell, Smith, Walsh, Cronin, Loeber, Fitzgerald, De Lapp, Wells, English, Julius, Dallas, Bischoff, Bruser, McMahon,, C. Wathen, S. Wathen, Palmer, Taylor, Zahm, Campbell, Keys, Murphy, Hackley, Lancaster, Simms, Hamilton, Dessaint, Baroux, Gavan, Davis, Horner, Salomon, Thompson, Purdy, Reinhard, Rasche, Halloran, Wright, Leydon, Engel, Wurzburg, Keena, Swayze, Edelen, McCormick, Paddock, Krieg, McCoy, par excellence. Misses Woodin, Keenan, Hambleton, Cavenor, Buck, A. Ewing, Lloyd, Neu, Winston, O’Neill, Donnelly, Gall, Callinan. O’Connor, Price, Orr, Regensburg, Greenebanm, Hammond, Wall, McFadden, Cleghorn, Moxon, Reynolds, Cox, Brown.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, Van Namee, S. Semmes, Casey, Crummey, Fishburne, McCloskey, C. Ryan, C. Lancaster, Chirhart, Ginz, Hutcheson, Jaeger, P. Ewing T Ewing, Knighton, Strawn, par excellence. Misses French, Le-monty, J. Wells, M. Gibbons, Barlow, Legnard, Harrison, E. Papin, C. Paquette.
Hotels.
THE MATTERSON HOUSE, Corner of Was bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matterson
Civil Engineers & Snrvevors.
ONT. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civil ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. 8TACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weeklv Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC UNIVER»<E, an excel-
lent Catholic and family newspaper, published every Thursday. Terms, §2.5'1 per annum. Address, Manly Tello, Manager and Editor, 117 Erie Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published
weekly a1 Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, op 70.
THE A.VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, §2.50.
Attorneys at Law.
TAMES H. WA.R.T), (of’73,) Attorney and Counsellor eJ at Law, Rooms 63 and 65 Metropolitan Block, N. W. Cor. La Salle and Randolph Sts., Chicago, Ill.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72) Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Braiy St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpHOMAS B. CLIFFORD (of ’62). Attorney at JL Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cot. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
JO HIV U. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
WILLIAM J. CT, AKKE (of ’74), Attorney at Law Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St, Columbus, O.
JAMES -A. O’B EIILILY—of’69—Attorney at Law, 627 Court St., Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
DANIEL B. -tLUtsBA-BT), Jr t (of ’TO), Attorney at Law. Special attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold
Street, Detroit, Mich.	.
St. Mary’s Academy,
{One Mile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four ^eekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital. *
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music cr in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
Now Ready.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, Si, postpaid.
A HHtpss
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Copies may also be had at the Students’ Office.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2	35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p.m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11	05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13	lOp.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 13 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4, p.m, Way Freight.	'
GOING WEST.
3 4.3 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4: SO p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago. 8 p.m.
8 03 am. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 ajn; Chicago. 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Rapp, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt. j
444
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Care and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
So extra charge for seats in the finest Seclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tlie Sliort; Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
Fer Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Chaelton,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.
W. C. Van Hoene,	J. C. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent	Gen’l Manager.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Ta"ble—Nov. 1«, 1879.
	♦MaH	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	+ Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 11	910 pm 11 30 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Man ’	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo --“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 00 a. m 10 20 *• 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55p.m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 pm. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 3 30 “ 4 55 “ 7 30 “
INlles and Sootlx Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	6 38 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 415 p.m.
“ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. +3aturday and Sunday excepted-Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, DI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Bailawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Hlinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass.'Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	'445
►
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in ISTbfor the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EliWARDS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEADER IN
Watches, Clocks,
J-ZE WELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Dote.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
CD X o
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST !
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Genesea. Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City. Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton. Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport. Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars are also run between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served tn any first-class hotel, forseventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
Dining Cars for eating purposesonly. Oneother great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF
THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the L.S.& M.S., andP., Ft. W. & C. R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with P-, C. & St. L. R. R.
At La Salle, with Ill. Cent. R. R.
At Peoria, with P. P. & J.; P. D.&E.; LB.4 W.; III. Mid.: and T. P. & W. Rds.
At Rock Island, with "Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d & Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C. M. & St. P. R. R.
At West Liberty, with theB., C. R. & N.R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. R.
At Des Moines, with D. M. & F. D. R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R.R.
At Omaha, with B. Jc Mo. R. R. R. in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction,with B.,C. R. & N. R.R.
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR.R.;W., St. L. & Pac., and C. B.&Q.R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Tol., Peo. & War.; Wab.. St. Louis & Pac., and St. L., Keo. & N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch., Topeka & Santa Fe; Atch. & Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pac., and Kan. Cent. R. Rds.
At Kansas City, with all lines for the West and Southwest.
PJTT.T.MAN PALACE CARS are ran through to PEORIA.DES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS. KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVENWORTH.
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Kock Island Route,’’ are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address, A. KIMBALL,	H. ST. JOHN,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Tkt. and Pass’grAgt,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. INDIANA.
(MAIN BUHJHNGA
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Untveksity affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more complete business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution. In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected. New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalouges, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. O. Indiana.