
Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper vlcturus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 9, 1880.	Number 4.
On Meadows Green;
. KROM “PRELUDES,” BY MAURICE F. EGAN.
When the first blush and bloom of life have fled, And on the summit of youth’s mound we stand, And youth to manhood gladly gives his hand, And then quick dies, and manhood in his stead Shows us a mist that hides an unknown land, By wild, chill breezes are our faces fanned:
The world’s before us, and no longer red, Nor glowing with fair hope, for youth is dead. A mist all gray is drawn before the world—
This great wide life! To fight life all alone
Is now our lot; yet other men have seen
The same vague foe; and patient souls have hurled Their fear away, and, going, made no moan,
To find the mist' God’s rain on meadows green.
Why am I Here?
To many this may seem a meaningless question, as all who have arrived at the age of reason are supposed to know what they are about; but it must be acknowledged that, judging from the actions of many, this is not the case. If every student would ask himself this question on his entry into college, different results would surely follow. The importance of its decision is evident to all; for if each student truly understood and realized why he is here, teachers would have less annoyance, students would make greater progress, and parents would be better satisfied. Perhaps if the question were put to each individually the answers of a few would be: “I don’t know ”; but upon serious consideration the majority would concur in giving this proper answer: “ We are here to receive an education —to receive such training as will enable us to manfully battle with the ups and downs of life.” For true education, while it fits a person for all the duties of this life, gives a broader culture to all his powers and aids him in attaining that for which he was created—Heaven. This, then, being the ultimate object of all, it behooves each one to keep it constantly before him, making that the pivot upon which all his actions turn; he who does so will have no difficulty in avoiding trouble, for he will mind his own business and do his duty in everything.
The chief occupations of the student are, as all are aware, study, recitation, and recreation; and upon the use made of the time allotted to each depends all our happiness after our college career has been brought to a close. The first of these is, no doubt, the most important, as without study little progress will be made. Experience shows that those who spend their time of study in idleness, or reading some worthless and unauthorized book, never succeed
in life; while it has never been known that one who spent his time properly has ever failed. Innumerable examples of this might be quoted; suffice it, however, to cite a single one, with which many of my readers are no doubt acquainted. The person in question wishing to learn a certain language, and having only fifteen minutes a day at his disposal, resolved to devote that time to its aquisition; and in a few years became thoroughly conversant with one of the hardest of our modern languages. You may be sure he did not stop here. So much for perseverance, order, and a definite aim; and these are the requisites to success in any undertaking. Some may desire to become great statesmen; others, good orators or writers; but the first and most important thing for all is to learn to be good Christians. No matter how much knowledge you may possess,—if you could lay claim to the wisdom of Solomon himself—it would be useless, did you not reverence and fear Him from whom you have received all. And this is precisely one of the reasons why you are here: to learn that there is a Being superior to yourself—a God whom you must love and thank for all.
Thoroughness is another indispensably necessary requisite to a student’s success. Be thorough, then; be not satisfied with a superficial knowledge of what you may be studying, but know it all, understand it thoroughly, complete one branch before beginning a higher one. This is another reason why you are here. Do not commence the study of English composition until you are a thorough grammarian; do not think of taking up rhetoric before you have mastered composition; do not study the higher mathematics until you have mastered the principles of arithmetic: should you do any of these, success is lost. They say that work begun is half done; but work half done is worse than begun, provided of course it remain thus. And this is generally the case with study: if it be not thoroughly mastered from the very beginning, it is never mastered.
Some, again, make a grand mistake in trying to learn too many things at once. Better far to take up one or two studies and know them well, than a half-a-dozen, and know them superficially. As it is better to be master of one or two trades than Jack-of-all and master of none, so it is better to be thoroughly acquainted with one or two of the many branches of education than to study all and know none.
Perfect yourself, then, in each successive branch in your course. To do this, you must of course be careful to utilize to the best advantage every moment of your time. They are precious; for, once lost, they can never be regained. This is the open secret of those students who are so successful in their class recitations. Some, less studious, and consequently less brilliant ones, seeing the
50
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
rapid advancement made by some of their class-mates, are apt to attribute it to their facility in learning, etc. In nine cases out of ten, these very same boys who allege such a reason for their class-mates rapid advancement could, if they but employed their time in a like manner, not only equal but even excel their smart class-mates.
Some students suppose that if they but keep quiet in the study-hall, and do just enough to keep themselves from getting notes for application, that at the end of a few years thus spent they will have acquired an education. You’re mistaken. You might as well, on attempting to plough a field, think that if you but hitch the horses to the plough and then sit down, at the expiration of a few hours the the field will have been ploughed. You say that such a course of action would be absurd; but the absurdity in the latter case is not more palpable than in the former.
What we here say of the employment of time while in the study-hall is equally applicable to that time devoted to recitation; you must give your undivided attention to each and every remark made by your professors in class. Many times before entering the class-room we may, per-• haps, not understand everything connected with the day’s lesson; this will, no doubt, often occur, and is pardonable, if we have done our best in trying to overcome the difficulty ; in such cases we have but to politely ask our professor for an explanation, who will of course give it We may not be called upon to recite every day: this, in very large classes is impossible; but no matter; if we but pay attention to those who are called upon, we cannot but derive the same benefit from the recitation as they. Some there are who are constantly thinking during the hours of study and recitation of what a fine game of baseball or football they bad at the last recreation, or what a grand game they will have at the next, and thus they go on from morning till night, from week to week, until examination day arrives; then they begin to reflect upon the folly of having employed their time so badly during the past session; they are not promoted, and are mortified to see their companions, of perhaps inferior talents, pass a creditable examination and receive promotion while they are doomed to remain another long session in the same class. How much happier and wiser would they not have been had they but given a little more attention to study. They may, perhaps, resolve to do better in the future; but, though they may carry out this good resolution, that time so unprofitably spent has been irretrievably lost.
I trust that these few considerations will have a stimulating effect upon those students who heretofore have squandered their time, and their parents’ money, by neglecting to use every moment of their time well and profitably. Let them from this time forth resolve to do all in their power to acquire an education, which will carry them successfully through life, satisfy the expectations of their parents and friends, and secure for them that boon of boons—eternal felicity. To do this,
“ Work while you work, Play while you play, For that is the way to be cheerful and gay. One thing each time, And that done well, Is a very good rule, As many can telL”
—Learn as if you were.to live forever; live as if you were to die to-morrow.
The Spider.
I believe the'spider to be the most sagacious of all the animals I have ever seen; and were it not for the indisputable aud i (.liable testimony of scientific'research, we would be inclined to disbelieve some of the remarkable things said of it. Insignificant though it may appear to the generality of men, and unworthy of notice, yet to the man of science the spider, its actions, its formation, and its every movement forms a most interesting study.
The spider has no tentacles; but though deficient in this respect, it makes up for this loss by having four pairs of legs attached to the forepart of the body. Most insects undergo a metamorphosis; but the spider, unlike any other insect, changes not its form, though its skin undergoes many changes.
There are many species of this curious animal. We have what is called the true spider, the great ciab spider, the trap-door spider, water spider, garden or cross spider, the scorpion. The mandibles of all these spiders terminate with a curved claw, in appearance very much resembling tbe poison fang of a venomous snake. The spider uses his mandibles for the same purpose that the rattlesnake uses his poison-tang, to inject the poison with which it is lavishly supplied, into any thing which its sharp claws may wound. Upon examination it was ascertained that this poisonous fluid, secreted in the fangs, possessed the same properties as that in the vemon of a rattlesnake.
All the different species of the spider family spin those remarkable nets, called webs, which are used by them sometimes as traps to ensnare their prey, and again as houses in which to reside.
This web is composed of two different kinds of thread, the radiating and the supporting thread. The thread is made from a certain liquid which every spider carries, and which it can spin into coarse or fine thread at its pleasure. The peculiar adhesiveness of the web is due to the vast amount of small globules it contains—as many as eightyseven thousand of them being in one web. One might suppose that on this account the time occupied by the spider in constructing a web would be very long; but this, however, is not the case, for the web is made in the incredibly short space of forty-five minutes.
The great crab spider, unlike most of this interesting family, does not limit his diet to small insects; he generally feeds upon young birds and other small vertebrata. The talons of this spider are very large, and are supposed by many to be an infallible remedy for the toothache. I believe, however, that owing to the general dislike entertained for the spider, very few people have ever employed the remedy.
The trap-door spider derives its name from the fact of its making a burrow in the ground, the entrance to which contains a trap-door, which, swinging on a hinge, can be opened and closed at the will of the occupant This door is circular in form; so closely does it fit the entrance to the burrow that it can scarcely be distinguished from the ground on which it lies.
The water spider is a most curious specimen of the family. Though in reality a terrestrial being, it spends the greater portion of its time beneath the surface of the water, obtaining air from the entangled hairs with which it’s body is covered. It is said.that this spider, when diving, carries with it beneath the surface of the water a large bubble of air, which supplies the respiratory organs with air for a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	51
long time. The water spider lays its egga under water, and there hatches its young, without wetting either the egg or the young spiders. This, too, seems almost incredible; but what will you think when I say that the spider itself, when under water, never gets wet? This seems still more incredible, still it is a well demonstrated fact. You remember that I said that this spider’s body was covered with an abundance of hair; well, this is precisely what protects it from getting wet; for those bubbles of air, which cling to these hairs, repel the water and the consequent moisture. The way of distinguishing the sex of this species is that the mandibles and pulpi of the male are larger and longer than those of the female. The garden spider, whose very name is suggestive of its place of habitation, is looked upon as the best species of all the arachnida; thousands of them may be seen in our gardens at any time in summer. This spider may always be seen occupying the centre of its web, with drooping head, always on the lookout for a square meal.
The scorpion is the most dreaded member of the spider race. It has very large claws, and a sharp, pointed tail, from which it is easily reco nizable. The wound which is inflicted by its tail is very often mortal; melted fat, and small doses of ipecacuanha, are looked upon as good remedies for destroying the poisonous effects of its sting.
In view of all these interesting qualities of the spider family, can we wonder at the great interest manifested by naturalists in the study of the many and strange phenomena which they present to his view, as a reward of his indefatigable researches ? Many people are inclined to look upon men who devote their time to such purposes as dreamers or fools; but great lessons are sometimes de. rived from carefully observing these, the most insign-ficant-looking of God’s creatures. Just call to mind how the drooping spirits and courage of Scotland’s great king, Robert Bruce, were again revived by observing the persevering efforts of a spider in its attempts to secure its web. The story is familiar to you all. It was that perseverance which Bruce first saw in the spider that finally enabled him to force England into acknowledging him King of Scotland. In this we have an example of a man’s fortune being made by observing a spider’s movements in making its web.
The following is an instance in which a spider was instrumental in saving a man’s life; this incident will also give an idea of the celerity with which a spider can spin its web: A man having had an altercation with one of his neighbors, shot him and fled, taking refuge in a cave. A party of the wounded man’s friends started in hot pursuit, resolved to kill their victim when found. He had not been there long when he heard the footsteps of his pursuers hurrying towards his place of concealment. Having arrived at the mouth of the cave, they were about to enter when one of the party, more observant than his comrades, said: “He surely cannot have taken refuge here: behold that spider’s web stretched across the entrance; we would but lose time in entering this cave; for, had he taken refuge herein, that web would most undoubtedly have been broken.” His companions were satisfied, and left the spot—satisfied that its gloomy caverns concealed not their victim, praising in unmeasured terms, the wisdom of their companion. The man in the cave felt relieved; and, no doubt, also praised his pursuers, not for their wisdom, but for their ignorance of a spider’s wonderful activity. ^The^spider had saved his life. I coqld con
tinue giving many other examples of a similar nature, showing what an interesting being the spider is, but time will not permit me.
You may see from what has been said of this apparently uninteresting and insignificant animal that great and lasting lessons can be derived from the study of the most insignificant of God’s creatures
P.K.
Drawing.
It is of the greatest importance that drawing should be taught to the rising generation as a branch of general education. The importance of this subject is so great that it is incumbent on those interested'in the progress and wellbeing of the people to give this subject the consideration it deserves. That drawing should form part of a liberal education must be admitted by all who fairly consider the question, it being an efficient and simple means of quickening the perceptive faculties, as well as being a practically useful power to most persons in all the walks of life. Those who can draw can observe and express more than would otherwise be possible to them, as no verbal or written statement can make evident the many peculiar shapes or appearances of things or places so readily as drawings can. The general appreciation of illustrated literature, and the multitude of maps, diagrams, and pictures used for educational purposes, prove this; indeed the fullest, simplest, and best way to describe the form of anything is to draw it. Let the reader describe in writing the form of an article he wishes to have made, and contrast it with a drawing of the same thing, and the superiority of the letter will be demonstrated.
Drawing has likewise the advantage of being easily understood by all persons, and is a simple kind of short hand, which requires no translation. Those who travel will not be able to make clear to others the important or interesting things they may see, unless they possess this art, which is not only useful but delightful.	\
Drawing increases the power of the eye by systematically expressing it; while an uncritical habit of observation will permit the beauty and point of many things to escape notice. This is no unimportant matter, and no one who knows the power the eye gains by learning to draw would willingly dispense with it. It is also useful to copy wayside flowers and plants, that something of their beauty may be realized; since to the educated eye the -richness and lovliness of the humblest drapery of the earth is very conspicuous and eminently impressive.	'
It is sometimes said that drawing can be successfully taught to those only who have a special taste or yenius for it; but this is absolutely untrue, as experience proves that it can be acquired by all possessing average ability. Many, of course, learn readily and with pleasure, while others progress slowly and painfully; but as on the one hand the most gifted have to labor hard, still the patient are always successful in the end.
When parents decide what branches their children shall study, they never pause to consider whether they have a genius for reading or writing, or a taste for grammar or arithmetic; indeed, this stumbling-block only arises when drawing is in question; because parents and guardians too often know nothing about it, and strangely imagine that drawing means some high art for which’rare genius is necessary.
52	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Drawing, as a means of educating the hand and eye, is attainable by all; and those who feel a difficulty in mastering those first principles may console themselves by recollecting that many of our greatest scholars and literary men gave but small promise of success in their early days. Real artistic work requires an expenditure of time and energy; but when it is remembered what time is required to master the difficulties of penmanship, or the piano, it is only fair to consider drawing as a serious study, and allow a reasonable time for its acquisition. Drawing should be looked upon as a sort of descriptive writing, and we trust yet to see the time in this country when it will be as generally understood and practised as penmanship. .
Importance of Perseverance.
Perseverance accomplishes wonders; it brings to a successful issue undertakings which, at the outset, seemed doomed to fail, makes millionaires out of poor men, and is the author of countless useful inventions of every description, which do the work of thousands of men, thereby lowering the prices of manufactured articles, and putting them in the reach of everyone. Even this glorious country in which we live, with its beautiful rivers and picturesque lakes, its large forests and productive plains, its lofty mountains and lovely valleys, might have remained forever in barbarous oblivion, had it not been for the indomitable perseverance of Columbus. He kept the project of finding a shorter route to Asia uppermost in his mind for a period of eighteen years, during which interval he applied to Genoa, Portugal, England, and other places, for aid to carry out his undertaking; but his time was spent in hopeless solicitude, until his perseverance gained for him at length the much desired assistance from the Queen of Spain. By her generous aid he was enabled to embark on that perilous voyage, which ended in his discovery of America.
When our country became inhabited to some extent, and England attempted to force unjust taxes upon our young colonies, did they not possess and need great perseverance to fight through such a long and terrible war, in defense of their rights and priviliges, against tyranny the most oppressive, and against the overpowering numbers opposed to them? Yes: they had indeed great perseverance, and through it they gained freedom and happiness for themselves and their posterity They were no longer compelled to pay heavy taxes, no longer subject to the British domination and laws, but had the power to form a government of their own, and make their own laws. On the other hand, suppose that affairs had taken the opposite course: that our ancestors, after having experienced a few disappointments, or perceived themselves stared in the face by obstacles, which at that time appeared insurmountable, and that instead of acting the true soldiers and patriots that they were, had thrown down their arms and surrrendered, what would have been the result? They would have voluntarily enslaved themselves, and homes heretofore happy would have been made desolate, and the United States would have never attained the high position which she occupies to-day among the nations of the earth.
Perseverance brings to a successful issue many enterprises which at first appear destined to fail. This was the case with the first steam-boat: on its first trial, it
failed; but Robert Fulton, its inventor, did not despair, but immediately set to work to discover the cause of the failure.- After examining the machinery very closely, the obstacle was found and removed, after which the boat was very successful, making her first trip of one hundred and fifty miles, from New York to Albany, in thirty-six hours. The same may be said of the telegraph, and many other useful inventions. Hence we see the great importance of perseverance; in fact, nothing which presents any obstacles whatever can be accomplished without it. It has discovered continents and islands; it has gained for the people of the United States that great blessing which the inhabitants of many other countries do not possess, viz., freedom; it has been the author of inventions which make travelling speedy and comfortable,—of inventions which transmit intelligence between points remotely situated with the rapidity of lightning; in a word, perseverance has accomplished everything.
Many persons either cannot or do not appreciate the great. importance of this word, perseverance. This is more frequently the case with young people while at school. So many little obstacles beset their path which tend to discourage them, that if they have not the perseverance and energy to conquer those obstacles their school days will be a burden, and they will never acquire a thorough education.	R. E. Fleming.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Wilson is to return to England next week.
—Deseret, a new comic opera, will be produced on the 11th inst.
—The Burns Statue was unveiled in Central Park, New York, Oct. 2d.
—Ole Bull’s death was caused by cancer in the stomach. He was 70 years old.
—W. H. Vanderbilt of New York, has purchased Meis-sonier’s “ Une Halte ” for §50,000.
—Dr. Heysinger, a well-known Philadelphian, has composed a comic opera called “ The Bankers.”
—Ole Bull was buried Aug. 24th. It took place from his residence, Lysoen, a rock in the inlet of Bergenfjord, Norway.
—Sternberg, the pianist, composer, and conducter, will make his debut before an American audience next Thursday evening.
—Simmous, of Rome, is to make the monument for the late Senator Morton, of Indiana. The cost of the work will be §20,000.
—E. C. Cushman, of Newport, has just erected a monument, 33 feet in height, over the grave of Charlotte Cushman, the actress.
—The distinguished Norwegian poet, Byornson, accompanied Mrs. Ole Bull and family from Norway to their home. He will pass the winter in Boston.
—Miss Anna Bock, the young and brilliant New York artiste, when but eight years of age could play the whole of Czerny’s “ School of Velocity ” from memory.
—The Franke Family of New Orleans, who have been completing their studies abroad, will make their appearance in America again during the coming month.
—Mrs. Ole Bull has arrived from Norway, and will reside in future at her home in Cambridge, near Boston. She is accompanied by her daughter Olea, aged nine years. Jfusical Record.
—Hancock plays the piano. The Score advises him, when elected, to close the White House windows during his practice hours. The American Art Journal thinks this precaution unnecessary.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	63
rr
—The School Board of Charlestown, S. C., has accepted the proposition of Bishop Lynch, supporting from the public treasury a separate Catholic School, the teachers of which are supported by Catholic authorities.
—The name of the architect of the wonderful Cathedral of Cologne is supposed to have been Gerhard Von Rile. No doubt he was an Irishman and changed his name of Gerald O’Reilly to suit the tongue of his adopted countrymen.
—The reason why Mdme. Christine Nillson does not return to the United State this season is because Mr. Rouz-and, her husband, cannot accompany her, and is unable to make up his mind to part with his charming wife for any length of time.
—The Soldiers’ Monument in the Antietam Cemetery was unveiled on the 17th ult. It represents a soldier at ‘“parade rest,” standing 21ft., 6in. high, 5ft., 6in. across the breast, and weighing 20 tons. It was made of Rhode Island granite by James G. Batterson, at a cost of $30,000.
—The maddest performance recorded in Mr. W. T. Dobson’s history of “ Literary Frivolities ” is that of the man who discovered there were 32,535 ways of spelling the word scissors, and who accordingly sat down and wrote them out in a volume containing 300 pages of three columns each.
—The papyrus manuscript recently discovered in the cave of a hermit near Jerusalem, and said to be the work of St. Peter, has been submitted to a commitee sent out by the Biblical Society of London, and they have come to the conclusion that the papyrus is in reality the work of the Apostle. They have offered $100,000 for the document in vain.
—A very interesting and valuable book which is apt to throw a great light on the question of the supposed Chinese antiquity, has been published at Shanhai, under the title of “ Chinese Researches.” The book is from the pen of Mr. Thomas Fergusson, member of the North-China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, and author of several works which have been very much appreciated by the public.
—Camillo Urso has returned from Austria, and reports that country in a very high state of musical culture. She is now in New York, and probably her next engagement will be in New Mexico. Before leaving, she intends to visit Boston, in order to hear Wilhelmj. She does not wish, to lose any opportunity of hearing that great violinist. This is surely a very graceful tribute from one artist to another.
Scientific Notes.
—The largest lathe in the world was manufactured by Sir Joseph Whitworth & Co., of Manchester, England, and has just been set up in France for turning 100-ton guns.
—During the two dredging trips of the Fish Hawk along the New England coast 30 crustaaceans, 70 mollusks, and 38 species of fish, 12 of which are new to science, were discovered.
—Prof. Mark W. Harrington, Director of the Observatory at the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor, discovered a large comet lately. It is situated near the star Epsilon of the constellation Bootes, and has a tail nearly a degree long.
—There are clouds of butterflies in Kansas. They settle in every yard where there are trees, making them look as though the leaves were brown with frost. There are millions of them, of large size, with long black bodies and brown spotted wings.
—The steamer Anthracite, worked on the Berkin’s high-pressure system, arrived at Falmouth, England, after a twenty-three days’ voyage from Philadelphia. This is the second time she has crossed the Atlantic. She has thereby shown the practical value of the new system.
—4,200,000 tons of hot water, averaging 135° F., are annually pumped from the Comstock Mines. To heat this mass of water by artificial means would require a consumption of over 50.000 tons of coal a year. The water
from some of the deepest shafts, 3,000 feet, has a temperature of 157° F.	•
—Dr Phipson claims to have discovered a means of illumination more uniform and more agreeable than that of gas. This is produced by taking sulphide of sorium and enclosing it in a Geissler tube; a feeble but regular electric current then passes through the tube, which produces the light.
—A telephone has recently been invented which enables a person to hold conversation in any position, and listen-without inconvenience to lectures, etc., without others in the vicinity hearing, and to prevent other sounds from interfering with those to be heard, and at the same time to allow absolute freedom of the hands when speaking or hearing.
—An inventor in New York city proposes to utilize the swift current of rivers by systems of anchored floats carrying current wheels connected with electro-dynamo-machines. The electricity thus generated might be conveyed to factories on the shores and set to work by means of electro-motors, or it might be used for lighting towns, or even for running trains on railways.
—Mr. Gastaldoni, of Vincenza, Italy, has invented a new pianoforte, which can make the sound of each key last as long as the player wishes, just like a violin, flute, or any other instrument, violin or not And yet it is not an organ, but only a pianoforte. Liszt, Rubenstein, and other great pianists, are quite enthusiastic over this invention, and say that quite a new era in pianoforte-playing begins with it
Exchanges.
—The G. G. .Y. Y. Free Press is the title of a new paper issued by the students of the College of New York to fill the gap made by the suppression of the Echo and the Mercury. It is a lively she. t, but whether it will meet with a better fate than that of its predecessors is an open question. Evidently, things do not go harmoniously between faculty and students at the College of New York.
—The Berkeley an, all the way from the Pacific slope, follows close upon the heels of the Niagara Index, so it would seem the college youth at the University of California must have been up and doing betimes. The Berkeleyan is a passably well conducted college paper, but the present nnmber is remarkable neither for great strength nor for stupidity. “Quiddities,” a sort of “Paul Pry” department, is so lively and wicked that we judge it should keep its editor in hot water all the time, if his name become known; it is well written, and spicy, but we would not be editor of such a department at Notre Dame for all the wealth of Croesus. No, sir.
—The University Magazine for September is, so far, the neatest college exchange that has visited our table this term. The leading prose article, “Science vs. Art,” is an excellent one. Local and general college news is abundant, and the account of the Lake George Race is well written and impartial. The race took place July the 12th —a sensible idea, for we cannot imagine how young men at colleges that enter into intercollegiate contests during term-time can spare time for them and hold their place in class. Evidently they must suffer, and yet the excitement is kept up from year to year in several colleges. Here a student has to grind hard for his degree, and even then many a one gets it with a close shave and nothing to spare. How it would be with intercollegiate contests thrown in, ’twere hard to tell, but we think we would much prefer it as it is—with, of course, plenty of athletic sports at home, of which there is no dearth.
—The Oberlin Review is as ably edited as usual, and we have more than once paid it merited tribute in this respect The exchange editor is horror-stricken and despondent because “ with fierce defiance the Niagara Index sends to the abodes of the college press the pouch of arrows, .with the significant threat that the war of his ancestor shall be resumed.” Our contemporary of the Review probably overlooked the fact that the exchange editor of the Index is testing the efficacy of the Blue-Glass Theory, or he
64
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
would, not yet have given up all hope of reclaiming him. Who knows what wonders those “Cony Island blueglasses’' may work? And perhaps the students at the Seminary may add to their efficacy by raising a contribution and putting in a blue-glass window in the Index man’s sanctum. The exchange editor of The Williams Alhenaum is more hopeful, and thinks the Index man’s disease has assumed a mitigated form, notwithstanding the fact that the Oberlin Review avers that “prayers, aumomtion and wit will do no good,” and advises the let-alone policy. The editor of the Alhenaum hopefully says: “ The inspiring angel or demon of the Index sanctum seems to have gained in good nature during two months of inactivity, and we venture to hope that the improvement will be permanent”
—The Illustrated Catholic American is a handsome and entertaining periodical. Its illustrations and reading matter reflect as much credit upon its gifted editor—Maurice F. Egan, we believe—as this and his other publications do upon their enterprising publisher, P. V- Hickey, who to his qualifications as a business manager superadds, we know, those of the erudite scholar. From the hands ol such men works of no ordinary merit would naturally be expected, and yet, knowing as we do the difficulties that must be surmounted to establish a first-class illustrated weekly, we must confess that our expectations are more than realized in The Illustrated Catholic American. The refined taste of the editor is displayed in its every page, and pains and expense seem secondary considerations with the publisher in the endeavor to present the paper in a most attractive form. Even in the matter of artistic presswork, a thing difficult of attainment, for the generality of presswork is little better than common ink-daubing, being done by inexperienced or careless persons,—the acme of perfection seems to be nearly reacned by the publisher of The Illustrated Catholic American in the number before us— that for October the 2d. With regard to the illustrations, in poring over bound volumes of The Aldine we have met but few better engraved and more handsomely printed than some we have lately seen in The Illustrated Catholic American. The reading matter is in keeping with the illustrations—nay, far superior to them. In the chief serial story, “The Wild Birds of Killeevy,” by Kosa Mulholland, the varied vicissitudes of Kevin and Fanchea have been described in such a fascinating way by the talented writer that the least curious reader must have a feeling of regret at the announcement that the story will end with the following number. Space does not allow us to notice the contents of the number more fully, and we do not regret it, for we must acknowledge we have in vain looked for some glaring fault with which to vary our description. If the reader doubts our honesty, we would advise him to send for the number and judge lor himself. The yearly subscription to The Illustrated Catholic American is but $3 a year; the office of publication is at 11 Barclay street, New York.
—The new editorial board of The Cornell Era have given its readers a lively number for the opening of the month. It purports to be the second of the volume, but it is the first we have received. The various departments—editorial, personal, exchange, and book review—are, with few exceptions, filled with judgment and ability; the booknotices are especially.goud. In this last particular the Era bids fair to compete with The Chronicle, of the University of Michigan. An account of a visit to “ Shakspeare’s Birthplace ” is the only thing in the line oi literary matter, but it is good. The exchange editor takes exception to the general appearance of the Scholastic; he says it is “disreputable-looking,” but we think that with a more accurate knowledge of the derivation and meaning of English words he would have used another term than “disreputable” in connection with “appearance.” Perhaps, though, our critic has been digging so deep after Greek, Hebrew, and Sanskrit roots, that he has lost sight of the stately Latin and our own homelier vernacular. Such English English—or rather un-English English—so much of which is seen in “Our own Correspondent’s” communications to English newspapers, looks bad, and should be avoided, especially by critics and college men. It may be the fault of the aforesaid digging after foreign roots wherewith to make an English hash, or it may be
that the exchange editor is a high-flier in astronomy, or has spent too much of his time astride of ancient “ ponies ” in search of rare animals for the Cornell museum, to be able to devote attention to such an ordinary matter as English “ pure and undefiled.” In any event, the homely Scholastic has found too many warm friends among people as high-toned, well-educated, and well dressed as the editor of The Cornell Era to feel much abashed at his rather ill-natured remark. Perhaps the naive bluntness of the remark should be admired, and that our friend of the Era aims to be a second Samuel Johnson in manner and speech, who once, when a friend wished to introduce to him a noted apostate French priest, nearly kicked the friend downstairs, telling him at the same time that he had never shaken hands with a “scoundrel” and hoped he never would. In which case we commend the harsh criticism to the consideration of those who hold the Scholastic’s funds, in the hope that a new dress may soon be forthcoming. We hope, however, they will uot raise the price of subscription from $1.50 to $2.50 (that of the Era), otherwise the Seniors might prefer laying in a stock of the “ Hedge-hogs’ Best ” to subscribing for the Scholastic.
—The Niagara Index is, curiously enough, the first of our college exchanges that puts in an appearance at the beginning of the present scholastic year. We give it welcome, and hope it shall not be our unpleasant duty this year, as it was last year, to take up the cudgel in self-defense against its exchange editor. As the need of reference to that disagreeable affair may not be apparent, we need only say that the new exchange editor of the Index -makes the following ominous assertion in his salutatory: “We shall endeavor, as far as may be, to follow out closely the manner of criticism indulged in by our predecessor of last year.” Criticism! save the mark! But what does the word “ criticism ” mean, as the exchange editor of the Index understands it? His definition certainly cannot be twisted in any way to agree with that of any of the leading orthoepists. Webster, for instance, has it that the word “ criticism ” signifies, in the English language, “ the art of judging of the beauties and faults of a literary performance, or oi a production in the fine arts,” whereas, the former exchange editor of the Niagara Index could see nothing but faults,—there were no beauties for his eye, either in matter or manner, to be found in a single copy of any of his exchanges, throughout the year; at least, so one must judge from the matter of his so-called “ criticisms.” There is a word in the language that we think will fit much better into the sentence copied from our Niagara contemporary, and that is the word hypercriticism,—meaning captious censorship, or criticising beyond measure or reason, and that is just what was given and done by our conlrfire’s predecessor. The present incumbent of the exchange chair of the Index asks us if we “ profess horror ” at the announcement of his plan of action for the coming year. No: we do not "profess'' horror, nor feel it, nor express it; we are prepared tor almost anything in the literary table or column of the Index, except common sense and propriety. We hope, however, the “Cony Island blue glasses” that the exchange editor so complacently refers to will have a very mollifying effect upon him, from the fact that several scientists maintain that General Pleasanton’s “Blue-Glass Theory ” has some truth in it It it have any, we hope our new Niagara friend may get the lull benefit of it through the Cony Island goggles; then, whenever his exuberant spirits attempt to gel the better of his judgment, ne has but to clap on the “ Cony island blue glasses ” and all will be serene. We would like to help our friend conquer his irascible temper, but if he is so far gone as to be naturally, or irom habit, half as wicked as he wishes to be, and will not take our advice and remedy in season, we might as well attempt to dam the Niagara with bulrushes or fulfil a contract to widen the Narrows as try to bring our Index friend to reason. We would suggest that a more conciliatory tone, even if as severe, would inspire more respect for the principles which the Niagara man. professes. It is a pity that manager Corbin of Manhattan was not aware of his ability and proclivities, as he might then have secured the Index man’s services for the Cony Island Sun to annihilate Commissioner Williams and nis dumpers, 1 and put an end to the Garbage War at Manhattan Beach.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
55
A. benefit would thus have been conferred upon the public who patronize that famous summer resort, and an angel of a different kind might have been secured to write up the exchange notes for the Niagara Index. As it is, we hope the “ Cony Island blue glasses ” will have the desired effect, and ameliorate the condition of things critical at the Seminary of Our Lady of Angels.
—Barring the fact that it has no exchange notes,—and this is a pardonable omission in the first number of a college paper after the opening of the scholastic year—we think the Monmouth College Courier for September one of the best numbers of that periodical we have seen. The editorial notes, newsy and well-written, bear testimony that they are not the work of a freshman; the poetry is passable and the essays interesting. The essay entitled “The Monastery ” has more breadth and liberality than is usually found in non-Catholic papers when subjects relating to the Catholic Church are under consideration. Still, there are a few points in this really excellent article in which the writer not only contradicts himself but is at variance with history and I act. As, for instance:
“There have been peoples who acknowledged, no God, and peoples whose religion was their ruler, and amid all this debris of kingdoms fallen and religions overthrown, there stands out prominently a religion which has lived through many ages —a religion against wnich volumes have been written and a continuous warfare waged; yet this institution, this religion so at variance with the great principles of Christianity, this Catholicism was one of the factors in civilization. If we look for a moment at church history we find that in the monastery of the Catholic Church were the first steps taken towards higher civilization. Laying aside all prejudice, and ignoring the fact that monasteries were the seats of great evils, we must acknowledge their benign influence.”
And of the “ dark-robed monk as he glides to and fro on his mission of mercy,” the writer says:
“Some would doubt his intentions ; some would ridicule his attempts at charity; but however these may be, we know that in the solitude of his cell there was time for thought, and in the seclusion of the cloister the mind was keeping pace with the passing years ; and in seeking food for thought, recourse was had to some of the most ancient manuscripts, and from these were culled the profbundest facts of science and philosophy and the eloquent words of ancient orators. The religious devotion which to-day sends the devotee to heathen lands, five centuries ago gave the monk enthusiasm for his work. Endowed with the almost divine genius, he has given the world some of the finest works of art extant. The solitude of the cell brought into being and activity powers before dormant, and the thought which awakened the intellect led to investigation—investigation to discovery. Thus, in an age of superstition, from a chaos of ignorance the monk wrought wonders, and literature was saved'from decay.”
How the Catholic Church could at the same time be “ at variance with the great principles of Christianity ” and one of the great factors in civilization and a promoter of “ higher civilization,” it is hard to conceive. That the latter was the case, no unprejudiced scholar will attempt to deny, and that an evil tree cannot bring forth good fruit is a truth resting upon a divine foundation. D’Alembert it was, we believe, as recently quoted in the London Tablet, who expresses the wish that all record of past events could be blotted out, but the average American student will not echo the sentiment, and the record that is written on such structures as the Abbey and Hall of Westminster, the Cathedral of Orvieto, the Duomo of Pisa, or in the works of Giotto and Orcagna, of Fra Francia and Fra Angelico, as well as in the verse of Petrarch and Dante and Adam of St. Victor, and the tomes of St. Thomas and Roger Bacon, must have an effect even upon the prejudiced reader that will bring his better nature into play. No: the militant Church that alone and unaided reared the mighty structure of Christianity de-■ spite the attempts of tyrants and traitors, can never falsify her mission, can never be aL variance with herself, else the words of her Divine Founder that the gates of hell, i. e. of error, should never prevail against her would be falsified, to assert which were blasphemy. What the Church is at variance with is, in the first place, that modern system of thought which would entirely eliminate God from scientific study, and thus place it upon a false basis; and, secondly, the various religious teachings of a monotholitic or
Nestorian character that are so prevalent at the present day, all of which are antagonistic to the first principles of Christianity.
CoHege Gossip.
—The Sun rises at Cornell at 11 a. m.
—Brown University has seventy-five scholarships.
—President Robins, of Colby University, has tendered his resignation.
—A movement is on foot at Yale to secure grounds for athletic exercises.
—The Williams Athenaeum announces the resignation of Dr. Chadbourne, President of Williams College.
—The trustees of the University of Wooster, O., has chosen a woman as lecturess in modem literature.
—The students of Yale College have been, for the present, prohibited from parading in political processions.
—Princeton University is to have a new chapel, costing between $80,000 and $90,000, the gift of H. C. Marquand.
—Baseball is at a low ebb at Oberlin, and, furthermore, the faculty of that college allow no more playing on the campus. So states the Oberlin Review.
—Bowdoin has an unknown benefactor, whose gifts of money come unheralded, unsought and unconditioned. Last year he sent $10,000, and this year $15,000.
—Prof, (in Intellectual Philosophy): “ Mr. H---------, if I were to say that snow is not black, what would you infer?” ■Mr. H-----------------------------------------------: “I should infer that snow is black.”—Ex.
—Mr. Edward Clark has presented a valuable cabinet to Williams College, and intends to supplement it with a costly and commodious building lor the exhibition of the cabinet.
—The editor-in-chief of the Bates Student was suspended from college for authorship oi an editorial entitled “Examinations,” in which he made charges against the faculty.
—The British Parliament stands as the solid South stands to-day, to interpose objections to every progressive measure intended to improve the condition of the people of Ireland and Great Britiau.
—The American University of Pennsylvania and the Electic Medical College of Pennsylvania, the institutions which have sent out so many bogus diplomas, have ceased to exist by order of a Pennsylvania court.
—“ Can anyone say certainly whether or not, there was an oar in Noah’s ark ? This question should be satisfactorily settled before the new edition of the Bible goes to press.”—Cornell Sun.
The question is of Noah count, besides it has been settled long ago.
—A circus manager wanted a new name for his show, and a sophomore collegian suggested “Monohippic Aggregation ” as good, and the circus man had got three towns billed before he was informed that “ monohippic ” meant “one horse.”—Ex.
—The Woman's Journal says, with apparent satisfaction: “ The cooks at Wellesley College are men; the professors are women.” From this, the only deduction to be drawn is, that the Wellesley folks have a higher regard for their stomachs than their heads.—Sunday Times.
—A professor lecturing on English Industries to a class of juveniles, informed them that it took seven men and a boy to make a pin. “I expec’,” said a little fellow, “that it’s the seven men that made that pin, and they used the boy to stick it into to see if it’s sharp enough."
—Mr. Jacob Nash, of Lafayette, Ind., took umbrage at certain articles of a personal character which appeared in a local journal, and cancelled a bequest of $25,000 which he had made to the State Agricultural College for the erection and furnishing of an observatory. He is under the impression that the articles in question were published at the instigation of the college authorities.—Ex. Notre Dame has never had such a chance. We wish Mr. Nash would just try us once.
|56
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
irfpliidif.
stand that all the musical organizations are in running order, but as yet the secretaries of these associations have given us no report of their proceedings. This should be done as soon as possible. We wish unprecedented success to the various organizations.
Notre Dame, October 9, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eoubtebnth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
AU the weekly local news of the University, including the means of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their exceUence in class and by their general good conduct.	.
.A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and,' above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber falls to receive the Soholastio regularly he will confer a favor by sending ns notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—VFe are well pleased to notice the earnestness displayed at meetings by the members of the different Societies. It is the best sign that the various organizations will be successful in accomplishing the work which they proposed to do at the beginning of the session. Everyone seems to act as though the honor and success oi his respective Association depended on himself alone. We lately had the pleasure of being present at the meetings of the Junior and Senior Archconfraternities, and were delighted and edified with what we saw and heard thereat. Both organizations have a grand object in view—the spread and perpetuation of devotion to the Mother of God. These societies are, of course, for our Catholic students alone. They have in years gone by done an incalculable amount of good, and, judging from what we saw at the meetings last week, they are destined to do even more this year. Some of the members are required to read weekly before the Association a paper on some interesting religious subject, which is given him by the President of the Society the week previous. In this manner, our Catholic students learn many things about the saints, the ceremonies of the Church, Mass, and other religious affairs, which they perhaps may not have known before, and probably wpuld never know, were it not for their connection with these organizations. Such organizations cannot but be productive of the best results.
The Literary Societies are hard at work, and no doubt ere long it will be our pleasant task to chronicle the event of their appearance in public. We trust that this pleasure will not be denied us much longer. We under-
—There is, we believe, but little difference of opinion in regard to athletic sports in college, especially when they are not carried to excess; yet, unreasonable though it may seem, not only to those who have made the education of youth a special study, but also to parents who have given the matter attention on account of the many wrecks of humanity which they have witnessed among over-studious and inactive youth, there are more than a few who are prejudiced against athletic sports. For the benefit of such, if there be any, among the readers of the Scholastic, we re-publish the following from The University, one of the two excellent papers published at the University of Michigan: “It is with satisfaction that we see a growing interest in Rugby manifesting itself among the students of the professional schools. It is a game well adapted to give lull play, not only to exuberant physical powers, but to the highest mental activity as well. While calling for more muscular exertion and endurance than baseball, it requires no less of cool judgment, quick decision and daring execution. And who shall say that these traits of character are not worthy of cultivation ? There is a tendency in some quarters to decry college sports as at best, but the least of two evils, and to depreciate or deny their educational value. We must protest against this; for while there is a possibility of carrying such things to a hurtful extent, there is far more danger, in our professional schools at least, of forgetting in the ambitious strife for knowledge and skill, our need of physical training and the healthful mental recreation that comes with it. Our American high-pressure mode of life demands, if we are to succeed in the fierce competition before us, the highest physical as well as mental development; and the student who spends three or four hours a week in hearty, joyous sport upon the campus or the river, is laying up capital in good sound nerve and muscle fibre, that will bring him a rich income in his future toil. Who can tell how much of England’s greatness is due to the manly sports, the cricket, boating and football, of her youth ? Then there is another side to this subject. The student who gives vent to his restlessness and physical exuberance by athletic sports is thereby fortified against temptations to indulge in the many effeminate vices of the day; for the more nearly he approaches a perfect physical state the easier will it be for him to lead a pure and noble life. Let us have more baseball, football and boating.”
—To every student it is of primary importance, from the moment he enters the door of a college to the time in which he goes away from the serene and quiet home of his Alma Mater, to be courageous and constant in his endeavors, calm and diligent in acquiring knowledge, and attentive to whatever the rules of the institution require. It is one thing to be studious for the first few months after his entrance, and quite another to keep up that mode of acting during his whole collegiate course. Knowledge can only be obtained by patient toil and arduous labor. The
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	57
knowledge which is natural to us, so to speak, is very limited ; indeed, it is a question how much we would know were we separated from society and left to ourselves to develop the faculties of mind that God has been pleased to bestow upon us. There is therefore no more appreciative feature in a young man than to be attentive, industrious and courageous for the formation both of heart and mind. It is not enough for us to be industrious, we must also be persevering and courageous. Many obstacles will, from time to time, present themselves before us; they will puzzle, they will perplex us, and perhaps it is when we are on the very point of surmounting them that we become discouraged and give up the task as useless. This is especially the case in the commencement of the study of languages: young people are apt to be too impatient at the very start, and instead of working assiduously, and in accordance with the directions of their professors, they follow their own notions, which generally end disastrously. We should be guided, if we wish to guide—if we wish ever to be able to lead others. There is something in allowing oneself to be directed that can never be too highly praised, and, in a student, we may say that it is paramount to sue-cess. In the first place, it shows an orderly mind; and in the next place, it exhibits a love of regularity, which is the fount and spring of every good.
Without order, no matter how industrious and persevering we may be, we can never accomplish much. Each student, therefore, should have a time for doing everything. The rules of each college allows a certain time for recreation and relaxation, and during this time nothing but these should be indulged in, so that health may be preserved and the sometimes sad consequences of a too close application to study avoided. These regulations also afford sufficient time for study and serious work, and during this time nothing but study should be in order. Two things cannot be very well done at the same time; it is then but right that the students should be serious in the recitation and preparation of their classes, and attentive to the instructions given them by their professors.
The students who study hard during the appointed hours can well afford to play and enjoy themselves during the time set apart for such enjoyment; but those who strive to play in school and out of school hardly know what play is, what recreation is. To accomplish some, thing it is certain that we must employ oiir time well: be courageous, persevering and industrious, and ths most happy results will follow.
—We were under the impression that the severe “ drubbing ” given in these columns last year to a certain class of individuals would have been sufficient for time to come. However, we see that the impression then received by us was rather premature—that a few of the old class still remain, and that it will still be necessary to administer a few more doses of this “ drubbing ” medicine, before this class of patients will have entirely recovered. This is something which we do not wish to do—we dislike it; but we, however disagreeable the task, do not propose to look idly upon certain abuses without raising our voice in protestation.
We believe that charity should be exercised towards all—that it should be the constant aim of every one laying claim to the title of gentleman to do all in his power to
make those with whom be may associate happy. A gentleman will never leave himself liable to the imputation of employing underhand means to injure his neighbor’s reputation; he will not seek an opportunity for so doing, nor will he seize it when it presents itself.	-
We know some whose actions are such as to make them easily recognized as tale-bearers, and consequently fomen-ters of social discord, which produces unpleasant feelings between individuals, and saps the very foundation of social union. We know of persons who are constantly engaged in the sometimes very laborious occupation of minding everybody’s business, except, of course, their own. These are they who are constantly finding fault with matters pertaining to departments and other affairs with which they have no connection whatever. Removed, for good cause, from the management of some particular affair, they are galled to see that though heretofore they were looked upon as indispensably necessary at some particular post, now everything runs on as smoothly and well as though their very existence had been a mere ideal conception. This state of affairs, we say, is intolerable to such beings;, consequently they become almost desperate in their efforts to procure a change. They might, however, as well attempt to change the present site of the Rocky Mountains. Were they to make such an attempt they would most assuredly leave themselves liable to be ridiculed and scoffed at as lunatics; and the individuals to whom we now refer are just as much the objects of ridicule and contempt to-day, to those blessed with generous and justice-loving hearts, as would be those proposing the removal of the Rocky Mountains. For they are so well known—their habits, disposition, short-comings, etc.,—that little or no attention is given their querulous, and oftentimes false imputations. And this is the case so frequently that we are at a loss to know why these disturbers cannot be made to understand how despicable they are in the eyes of their superiors. We know full well that no man is perfect in everything—he must have his shortcomings; God alone can lay claim to perfection. The peace of society is maintained not by making capital of, but by overlooking, as far as in us lies, those defects which we may from time to time observe in our neighbor This is what we call charity; this is one of the most conspicuous characteristics of a gentleman. And yet we know of some who possess it not. We know of some who are constantly finding fault with their neighbor’s mode of action, not hesitating to misrepresent it when an opportunity presents itself. This is really a deplorable condition for a man—a Christian man—to be found in. If you can say nothing good of your neighbor, be silent; destroy not that reputation which he holds as dear as life. If you notice certain defects in your neighbor’s disposition—if he has even injured you in your reputation, you must put up with these defects; you are forbidden to retalliate by injuring his reputation. When you are tempted to do anything of this kind look to the example given by the Saviour of mankind, who exercised His charity so far as to breathe with His last breath a prayer for His crucifiers.
Let those then who have heretofore done or said anything calculated to be injurious to their neighbor’s reputation make immediate reparation, and resolve henceforth to bear anything, and everything, rather than be guilty of such a crime. We hope that we shall not have occasion to again allude to this point; for, as we said before, we dislike it. There is and can be no real pleasure, save in
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOL'ASTIC.
M ■
doing good—in trying to assist our fellow-man both by word and deed.
—The welfare of society, the preservation and continuation of morality, intellectual culture and progress, have at ail times occupied the most serious attention of our statesmen, philanthropists and ministers of religion. But in looking over these interests, must we not first look after the welfare and proper culture of those to whom these interests are to be entrusted, and who will be held responsible for their transmission to future generations ? And are not the young men of to-day those to whom this important mission must be given ? Most assuredly; and hence it is that at all times we see the leaders of society paying special attention to the culture of the rising generation. If we find men interested in the security and happiness of society, we see them assiduously devoted to the proper education of these young men, both morally and intellectually; if there is an edu-catior intent upon the overthrow and complete wreck of law and order, his first object is to give the young an education which will lead them on to deeds of daring and crime; and this work being accomplished, his principal end is obtained, and time only is wanted for the perpetration of the most lawless deeds, and for the complete disregard of every law, both human and divine. Is this not verified in every age ? Let us look to a certain class of young men, who give themselves over to dissipation of every description; do they not disregard the law of their country? do they not burst assunder the chains which bind together those common interests, whereby man is secured against the hatred of his fellow-man and kept in the friendship of his Creator ? Does not experience teach us that when young men are properly brought up, when their intellects are carefully trained to good— to the careful observance of the laws, which govern their relations with their fellow-man—we may vouch for the future well-being of that portion of society in which they move? They have a proper regard for all things pertaining to law and order, and may be well styled the props of the future Church and State. How easy it is to discern between this class of society and that whose early training was neglected. Observe the actions of this latter class, whose intelligence has been neglected in its moral training: They are'careless in the discernment of good from evil, and are even more ready to do evil than good. And if they constitute the larger portion of society, may we not fear for its preservation? But some may say that this state of affairs is peculiar to the present generation; and it is so, to a certain extent. If, however, we observe the strict inculcation of moral training in the old as well as the new dispensation, we will find that the tendency to the commission of evil has been the same in every stage of the world’s existence. That the young man’s education should require such special attention is evident when we reflect upon the great influence which he may in after life wield either in the social, civil, or religious order.
When we look around us, and see men who have grown grey in the service of society about to pass from the stage of life, we at once say to ourselves: by whom will their places be occupied? On whom are we going to bestow such trusts? Who, in years to come, will fill our legislative halls, our pulpits, our courts of equity? who will look after our commercial interests? who will be the future educators of youth ? who will occupy the most hon
orable and most important offices in the nation ? The an swer to all these questions must be, Our young men—the rising generation. These considerations should make a lasting impression on all who are in any way called upon to contribute to the education of our young men.- These same considerations should fill our young men, not with vain and presumptous thoughts, but with a deep sense of the momentous responsibilities in store for them, at no very distant day. To be able to bear these responsibilities ; to faithfully and honorably discharge their civil, social, and religious duties; to maintain the integrity and purity of our constitution, and public institutions—these are some of the many things expected of our young men; aud for the realization of these expectations a thorough education is necessary. Is it not too sadly the case that young men nowadays are not given to thought and serious reflection ? The majority of them live as though there were no morrow,—as if the present moment were the only period of their existence; to them the future is a never coming time—a time so distant as to be unworthy of notice; They do not reflect for a moment upon the end for which they were created—they have the present, they care not for the future. And, if the interests of society are to be entrusted to such individuals, what great results can we expect? Mere trifles, nothing. The proper occupation then for a young man is to reflect seriously upon the end for which he was created, or in other words, to discover as soon as possible his vocation; and having found it, he must use those faculties bestowed upon him by his Creator in obtaining the necessary knowledge for the faithful discharge of the duties of his state of life. Life is but a drama, in which each individual member of the human family have a part—be it a principal or inferior one. Happy will it be for us if, when the curtain falls, we have acted our part well. To do this, is it not absolutely necessary. that we know our part thoroughly?
In countries where despotism reigns supreme, where the powerful trample underfoot the God-given rights of of the weak, and make them the slaves of a corrupted will and an ungodly power, ignorance is a necessity; for in such countries, the less a subject knows the easier it will be for the tyrant to hold him in subjection. But in a country like ours, where all are free men, where the rights of men are recognized and respected; where the poorest can by persevering energy rise to the highest posts of honor; where every man is a public man, having a voice in public affairs; in such a country, we say, intellectual cultivation becomes a manifest necessity. When we speak of intellectual cultivation being a necessity, we do not by any means mean that every man must become a philosopher; we only wish to say that as no office in a country like ours can be filled by an ignorant man, every man must of necessity have an education in keeping with the importance of his trust. And this amount of knowledge is within easy reach of all. Let a young man devote his leisure hours—those spent in idleness or in dissipation— to the perusal of some instructive book, and at the end of a few years he will be surprised to see the amount of useful information he will have acquired. Again, there never was an age in which young men had better opportunities for'acquiring knowledge than the present; our land is covered with educational institutions, in which everything calculated to enlighten and instruct may be found; the printing-press has brought within the reach of the poorest the literary wealth of ages; our public libraries are open
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
59
to all, without regard to age, condition or nationality. In view of these facts, can there he any excuse for ignorance ? We think not.
Happy the young man who cultivates a taste for study, who thirsts for knowledge. He draws around him the most intelligent of his age; he cares not for the company of the ignorant and ill-bred, but courts the company of the intelligent and well-brought up, and who would not be guilty of a mean, low, or vicious action. He thus grows up, thoroughly imbued with principles of honor and integrity, the pride of his friends, the admiration of all. His character is good; and instead of becoming a danger and pest to society, he becomes one of its brightest lights. Everything he does is done from an honorable standpoint; honor and justice are his chief characteristics. He’s unselfish; for, considering himself a member of the human family, he feels the necessity of doing his utmost for the promotion of the happiness of each individual member of this great family; to do this, he leaves nothing undone, no means unemployed. And when such a one is called to receive his reward in the world beyond the grave, society mourns the loss of one of its best members. There never existed a nation in which so many inducements were given to make a young man strive after knowledge as those given by our own glorious Republic to-day; there never existed a nation in which the facilities for obtaining an education were as numerous as those afforded us to-day. Let our young, men then, not abuse these privileges, but on the contrary make the very best use of them. In our day an education means wealth and fame; ignorance, poverty and oblivion.
Having shown the necessity of'an education, the necessity of becoming good and upright members of society, it remains lor us to say a word about what is expected from our young men in a religious point of view. Some attach little or no importance to this part of a young man’s education. The blindness of those holding such views is made apparent, when -we consider the fact that without religion there is no guarantee for the preservation of morality, which is the very germ of society, and without which society would become corrupt to the very core, and end in total destruction. Take away the principles of morality, and what remains ? History has told us,—nothing, save anarchy and ruin. And how is morality to be inculcated ? By our present system of teaching? No! How then? The Church must come to the front, and her influence; she must look after the morality of our youth. Virtue is within the reach of all, and any young man with but half an effort can not only become an educated man, but also a good, virtuous and upright member of- society. These are precisely the kind of men to whom we wish to entrust the safety of our Republic. We do not wish to place the guardianship of our glorious nation, for which our forefathers suffered and bled, in the hands of atheists and libertines. No: we well know that if we did, America would but share the fate of pagan Rome, and of other Godless nations—destruction, ruin. If we but have God-fearing men at the head of our public affairs, we need have no fear for the safety of our Republic; for Freedom and Religion walk hand in hand. This happy state of affairs can be secured only by giving due attention to the intellectual, moral, and religious instruction of the rising generation.
—Speech is silver, silence is golden, and cheek is brass.
Personal.
—Prof. A. J. Stace is residing at South Bend.
—F. Watson, ’72, is farming near Henderson, Ky.
—W. Barlett, ’73, is abstract clerk at Marshall, DI.
—A. F. Ames, ’76, is in business at Charlotte, Mich.
—H. L. Dehner, ’76, is doing well at Cascade, Iowa.
—E. W. Robinson, ’78, is in business at Millview, Fla.
—T. Van Mourick, ’77, is in business at Houghton, Mich
—Girard Van Mourick, ’79, is residing at Houghton, Mich.
—Rev. Father Hagerty C. S. C., is at present in Mishawaka.	.
—W. J. Walker, ’68, is in the grocery business at Reno, Nevada. '
—Sheehan Monahan is married, and resides near Louisville, Ky.
—W. Babcock, 68, is Superintendent of a railroad in Colorado.
—Dr. J no. Cassidy, ’64, still remains attending physician at Notre Dame.
—J. Roberts, the inventor, of Three Rivers, Mich., was with us last week.
—E. D. Schellhous, ’67, who resides at Constantine, Mich., visited South Bend last week.
—Mr. McDevitt, of Cincinatti, Ohio, spent a few days of last week with us. He placed a son in the Junior Department.
—The learned, witty and genial Prof. A. J. Stace, the County Surveyor, has lately, we are told, surveyed a new addition to South Bend. Our neighboring city is a thriv-'mg place, and rapidly spreading itself, both above and under the ground.
—Our friend and former schoolmate, D. H. Kedzie, has, we see, started out in the journalistic career at St. Joseph, Michigan. Ihe Lake Shore Daily News makes a very creditable appearance. When the elder Bennett, and Greeley, and Raymond, first started their respective papers the LakeShore Daily News would have been looked upon as a mammoth affair. . May it always champion the right, oppose evil, and prosper.
—C. M. Proctor, C. E., of —, was at the College on Tuesday, and looks as blooming aud happy as a bright sunflower. He reports business in his line excellent— plenty of work in all parts of the country. Mr. Proctor has lately finished an excellent contract in Dakota, to the satisfaction of those who engaged him and with profit to himself. He has other engineering contracts in Kansas, and several of the States and territories. We wish Mr. Proctor continued prosperity in his undertakings.
—We clip the following from the Nashville Daily Herald, in regard to the death of M. Burns, Jr., ’69. He was, while here, a most exemplary young man, and his premature death will no doubt bring grief to the hearts of all who knew him. The Herald says: “ It is with profound sorrow we announce the death of Michael Burns, Jr., of the firm ol Burns & Co., of this city. He died at the residence of his lather, Hou. M. Burns, Sept. 25,1880, after an illness of two months. He was a native ol Nashville, and died in the 34ih year of his age. He was a man of high business capacity and spotless integrity, noble-hearted and generous, and enjoyed the confidence and affection of all who knew him. To his bereaved wife and little children, his heart-stricken father and mother, brothers and sisters, we offer our tendereat sympathies. May God temper the winds to the shorn lambs and be a father to the fatherless. The funeral services occurred at the Cathedral this morning. A grand Requiem High Mass was sung by the Rev. Richard Scannel, assisted by Fathers Gill and Gazae. The funernal uirge sang by the choir was most solemn and impressive, after which, Bishop P. A. Feehan delivered a beautiful eulogy on the life of the deceased, in which he spoke of him as an exemplary Christain.”
60
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—“Eggs! Eggs!”
—Rain last Sunday.
—Hurrah for the 13th!
—Our weather prophet rejoiceth. •
—Bro. John de Matha is our new typo.
—The Juniors have a new third prefect.
—The Minims have several velocipedes.
—Baseball is the Minims’ favorite game.
—Shall we have a boat race on the 13lh ?
—Bulletins were made out last Wednesday. .
—The Military Companies have reorganized.
—The Class of Telegraphy is largely attended.
—Field sports of every description on the 13th.
—Ask the “Corporal ” about “ those candy pants.”
—We will be very thankful to all sending us local items.
—Rah! Rah! Rah! Nostra Domina! is the College cheer.
—Who will win the greatest number of prizes on the 13th?
—The boys asked for “rec.” on last Monday, and got it —not
—Rev. Father Stuhl, C. SS. R., is preaching the diocesan retreat	’
—Masters Rhodius and Orrick are two of the best public readers.
—A. Choral Union Club has been started in the Junior Department.
—A bicycle cub is about to be organized in the Junior Department
—Our “little gardener ” is beautifying the park in front of the College.
—The singing of the magnificat at Vespers, on Sunday last, was grand.
—Handball is a good game to play these chilly days. It warms you up.
—Very Rev. Father Corby was in Chicago last Tuesday and Wednesday.
—The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne arrived here on Sunday morning.	-
—Bro. Leander informs us that a bicycle race will take place on the 13th.
—Never have we seen the Minims so contented and happy as at present.
—Our local item box does not groan under the weight of locals placed in it. -
—The appearance of the windows in the church have been much improved.
—The hedge-hogs have been dug out, and will soon be made short work of.
—The work on the Portiuncula, Chapel is completed. The chapel looks neat.
—Bro. Ireneus has reason to be proud of his birds. They are good singers.
—Promenades are hugely indulged in by the Seniors on Sundays and Wednesdays.
—The hand-ball alleys are well patronized at the morning and afternoon recreations.
—We cannot imagine why Hancock is represented as carrying a fan this chilly weather.
—We understand that a grand torchlight procession will take place on the eve of the 13th.
—A great improvement could be made in the singing at 6-o’clock Mass on Saturday mornings.
—Masters Croarkin and Gordon were the head-servers last Sunday; A. Tinley was censer-bearer.
—Rev. Father Delehunty has concluded not to accept the mission recently offered him in Idaho.
—Father Frdre is kept busily engaged in teaching Gregorian Chant to the Juniors and Seniors.
.—The Military Company of the Senior Department were out drilling last Wednesday afternoon.
—We are under obligations to Messrs. G. Clarke, F. Grever and E. C. Orrick for favors received.
—Bro. Augustus has received a full supply of fall goods, and is, thererore, prepared to suit you at all times.
—Bro. Lawrence has our thanks for a “ sample ” of that nice sweet cider which the Blues won Wednesday.
—The apple crop is very heavy here this year. The well-stocked orchards are patronized by the boys.
—We have noticed some very good players in the Juniors’ Croquet Clubs. They handle the mallet well.
—The Sorins boast of a new chandelier given them by Very Rev. Father Corby for their new society-room.
—Great preparations are being made to celebrate the festival of Very Rev. Father General, which occurs on the 13th.
—“ Sancho ’’ and “ Nep ” are wont to make the night hideous with their yells. They should be tin-canned again.
—Remember that the box with the superscription “Scholastic,” near the Students’ Office, is for local items, not for letters.	'
—Perhaps the Seniors are not aware of the peculiar merits of that brand of the deadly narcotic styled “The Hedge-hogs’ Best.”
—To-morrow, the Feast of the Maternity of the Blessed Virgin, Missa de Angelis will be sung. Vespers, p. 213 of the Vesperal.
—Those appointed to read during dinner in the different refectories should read loud and distinctly, so as to be heard by all.
—The Minims are determined upon taking a most active part in celebrating the festival of their venerated patron, Very Rev. Father General.
—Our Justice of the Peace feels uneasy. The vigor with which the Democrats are pushing the present State campaign unnerves him.
—The Minims are 40 strong. Their kind Prefect, Bro. Amandus, C. S. C., leaves nothing undone which might in any way contribute to iheir happiness.
—We are in possession of a bunch of keys which do not belong to us. Any one calling at our office and giving a proper description of them; may’have them.
—Those having the best Bulletins for September in the Minim Department were Masters C. E. Droste, 0. C. Echlin, Joe Courtney, D. Taylor, H. C. Snee and W. Berth-elet.
—Our friend John says that he cannot account for the discoloration ot the sanguineous fluid beneath the cuticle at the lower extremity of the “ Marshal’s ” proboscis.
—Last Sunday, Rosary Sunday, Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. Father L’Etourneau, with Rev. Father O’Keeffe as deacon, and Rev. Father Fritte as subdeacon.
—Next Wednesday, the Feast of St. Edward, King and Confessor, is the patronal festival of Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and founder of Notre Dame University.
—Last Saturday, the Feast of the Guardian Angels, the Guardian Angels’ Society were given a half-day’s “ rec.” and a well-prepared banquet, for both of which they return their most cordial thanks to Very Rev. President Corby.
—The Curator of the Museum returns his best thanks to Mr. Thos. Shortiss, of Toronto, Canada, for a valuable collection of Canadian minerals. This is the second donation that Mr. Shortiss has made to the Cabinet of Miner alogy.
—Our weather-prophet made a false prophecy in regard to the weather on Wednesdays. He said that Sundays and Wednesdays would be rainy days; last Wednesday, however, was a beautiful, balmy, pleasant autumn day. We ask our (false) prophet to rise and explain.
—Mr. Daley, the College horticulturist, has for some time been at work in the orchard at the college farm. His labors here have been abundantly rewarded by an un-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	61
il
।
usually large crop of apples this year. Wherever you go you meet apples, mellow and toothsome. May it always he thus.
—A. novel game of football was played on the 4th inst. between the occupants of the two Junior dormitories. The prize was a barrel of apples. “ The Snorers ” were the victors, after a struggle of an hour. “ The Dreamers ” won the first bout; the “Snorers,” the second and third. “Yacob” excelled in kicking, as he does in snoring.
—A Choral Union was organized in the Junior Department last Sunday night by Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C.
I Officers were elected as follows: Very Rev. W. Corby, Director; Bro. Leander, Assistant Director; Mr. T. Mc-• Namara, President; J. P. O’Neill, 1st Vice-President; C, A. Tinley, 2d Vice-President; F. H. Grever, Recording Secretary; C. J. Brinkman, Treasurer; J. W. Guthrie, 1st Censor; W. Cleary, 2d Censor; N. Weny, Sergeant-at-Arms. The Society consists of 13 members.
—The college farm has lately become possessed of a very handsome portable engine, purchased at the celebrated establishment of the Messrs. Rumely, Laporte^ Ind. It is said to be ten-horse power, and is decidedly one ofthe best and handsomest engines that we have seen of its kind. The Messrs. Rumely may well pride themselves on turning out such work from their shops, and the more especcially as we are told the engine works even better than it looks, having been used last harvest on the farm.
—On the 2d of October the members of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary approached Holy Communion. In the course of the morning, they called on their venerated patron, Very Rev. Father General. After making some beautiful and impressive remarks on the Feast of the day, he gave each a handsome picture, whose value was greatly enhanced by having his name attached to them. The Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary return heartfelt thanks to Very Rev. Father General for these souvenirs from his venerated hand.
—The Blues turned the tables on the Reds on last Wednesday. The game was for a barrel of sweet cider, and was won by the Blues in two straight bouts. Frank Wheatley captained the Blues, and J. Maher the Reds. There was some fine play at intervals during the game, which was loudly applauded by the spectators; the captains of both teams worked hard—none worked harder than they. Both teams will meet to-morrow at 2 p. m., and contend for a barrel of apples. No doubt it will be a spir-. ited contest, as they stand even, both clubs having won a game.
—The fourth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association took place Saturday, Oct 2d. At this meeting Masters N. Nelson and J. Gordon were elected members. Master F. Grever read a very fine essay on “ The Feudal System ” ; Masters C. Brinkman, J. Homan and R. Fleming read compositions: Master Orrick’s “Ambition” was well written and well read; C.Tinley appeared to advantage in two declamations; J. O’Neill delivered “ Napoleon ’’ in good style. The following were appointed public readers for the ensuing week: W. Cannon, G. Rhodius, A. Bodine, C. Tinley, J. O’Neill, F. Quinn and E. Orrick. Master Weney closed the exercises with a selection on the organ.
—The second regular meeting of the Archconlraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held Sunday evening, 1 Sep. 26th. _The following young gentlemen were unanimously elected to membership: P. Hoffman, E. Cullinane, J. Courtney, J. McElvogue, A. L. Schmid, J. Nelson, F. Mattes, A. Browne, G. O’Kane, J. Maher, G. Tinschel, W. Cannon, J. M. Flynn, T. Cullinene, ,8. Murdock, C. Murdock, W. Smith, N. Ewing, F. Dorsell, J. Casey, F. Woe-ber, G. Schaefer and A. Jackson. Masters J. P O’Neill, C. McDermott and F. H. Grever read essays, and Masters R. E. Fleming, C. J. Brinkman and E. Orrick were appointed to read essays at the next regular meeting. The . Rev. President made a few remarks, and after the closing hymn the meeting adjourned.
—The 3d regular meeting of the Philodemics was held Tuesday, September 28th. After the regular proceedings the following debate took place: “Resolved, That a change of party would be beneficial to our country.” Messrs. Geo.
Clarke and J. Maloy supported the affirmative side of debate, and Messrs. W. B. McGorrisk and Geo. Sugg that of *he negative. The debate was well contested on bnth sides, and the decision was deferred until some future time. The 4lh regular meeting was held Tuesday, September 6th. At this meeting the following delivered declamations: W. J. .McCarthy and J. Solon. Questions were answered by W. Arnold and Geo. Tracy. An essay was read by J. P. Hagan. The speakers for the next meeting being then appointed, the meetinga djnurned.
—The following criticism of Bro. Philip Neri’s new German system of Penmanship, was sent to the firm of F. Pustet & Co., by A. Stoecke. Professor at the Episcopal Lyceum in Eichs'adt: “I have examined the Systematische Arileitnng sum Schonshreiben in eight numbers, published by you, and in my judgment, as well as that of practical schoolmen, whom I consulted in this matter, especially Mr. Hotter, inspector of the schools, they deserve the highest recommendation. The scholar is led on in a well-considered gradation from the easier to the more difficult, which agrees entirely with the general didactical law. It is especially noticeable that the double lines are retained in the first four grades; for in commencing to write too soon on single lines the handwriting becomes crippled and too small. The explanations on the cover are practical, as also the application of the principles to the letters. We wish the undertaking a great success.”
—His Eminence Cardinal Newman_has generously do-! nated ttielollbwing'volumes of his writings to the Lemonnier Library: Essays, Critical and Historical, two vols., with notes: 1, Poetry; 2, Rationalism; 3, De la Mennais; 4, Palmer on Faith and Unity; 5, St. Ignatius; 6, Prospects of the Anglican Church; 7, The Anglo-American Church; 8, Countess of Huntingdon; 9, Catholicity of the Anglican Church; 10, The Antichrist of Protestants; 11, Milman’s Christianity; 12, Reformation of the Eleventh Century; 13, Private Judgment; 14, Davison; 15. Keble. Idea of a University: 1, Nine Discourses; 2, Occasional Lectures and Essays. Theological Tracts: 1, Dissertatiunculse; 2, Doctrinal Causes of Arianism; 3, Appollinarianism; 4, St. Cyril’s Formula; 5, Ordo de Tempore; 6, Douay Version of Scripture; The Arians of the Fourth Century, Fourth Edition. Historical Sketches, 3 vols.: 1, The Turks; 2, Cicero; 3; Apollonius; 4, Primitive Christianity; 5, Church of The Fathers; 6, St. Chrysostom; 7, Theodoret; 8, St. Benedict; 9, B medictine Schools; 10, Universities; 11, Northmen- and Normans; 12, Medieval Oxford; 13, Convocation of Canterbury. Each volume is enriched with the author’s autograph. The Library Association desire us to return thanks to his Eminence for this valuable contribution to their collection of books.
Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. B. McGorrisk, Geo. Clarke, J. Solon, R. Anderson, J. Casey, B.Casey, J. A. McIntyre, L. E. Clements, J. C. Newman, F. J. Baker, F. Kuhn, R. Le Bourgeois, R. C. Adams, A Zahm, A. Korty, C. Thiele, E. McGorrisk, J. D. Delaney, J. Cannon, L. Johnson, J. Falvey, W. Young, H. A Steis, J. Malone, W. Johnson, E. J. Taggart, W. Kelly, L. Mathers, A. F. Spangler, L. M. Proctor, J. Osher, F. M. Bell, J. Ryan, C. Brehmer, E. Sugg, F. J.Rettig, F. Ward, C. W. Bennett, G. L. Hagan, J. J. Malloy, E. Piper, B. F. Smith, W. E. Hoffman, D. Ryan, W. McCarthy, D. R. Phillips. J. Noonan, J. P. Hagan, F. Killean, W. Browne, G. Tracey, D. English, P. Maguire, W. Arnold,JT. Kavanagh, J. J. McErlain.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. A. Brown, F. A. Boone, C. J. Brinkman, V. G. Butler, A Bodine, W. H. Barron, G. C. Castanedo, A M. Coghlin, W. D. Cannon, E. Cullinane, J. M. Courtney,- E. H. Croarkin, W. J. Cavanagh, W. S. Cleary, H. P. Dunn, A. C. Dick, F. H. Dorsel, N. H. Ewing, A. J. Flynn, T. F. Flynn, J. M. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, Ed Fishel, J. H. Fendrick, J. J. Gordon, L. P. Gibert, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever. E. Gerlach, P. G. Hoffman, W. D. Hetz, H. P. Hake, T. J, Hurley, A. J. Hintze, M. A Herrick, J. T. Homan, J. M.Heffer-
62
THE NOTRE D’AME^SCHOT/ASTIC.^
nan, J. L. Heffernan, F. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. A. Joyce, F. A. Kleine, J. M. Kelly, C. C. Kolars, S. Livingston, F. X Mattes, W. P. Mahon, Frank MePhilips, J. L. Morgan, C. J.. McDermott, S. T. Murdock, J. F. Martin N. J. Nelson, J. T.. Neeson, E. C. Orrick, L. L. O’Donnell, F. A. Qninn. G. J. Rhodius, A. N. Rohrback, H. L. Rose, C F. Rose, C F. Rietz, J. Ruppe, H. G. Sells, W. E Smith, G. Schafer, J. M. Scanlan, C. A. Tinley, G. A. Trusehel, F. J. Woeber, F.- W. Wheatley, Gny Woodson, W. T. Weney, T. Williams, J. B. Wilder, F. E. Wilder.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C.	C. Echlin, D. G. Taylor, J. S. Courtney, H. C. Snee, E. A. Howard, A Van Mourick, H. A. Kitz, C. E. Droste, J. A. Kelly, A. G. Molander, J. McGrath, D. O’Connor, W. T. Berth-elel. J. W. Fraiu, J. E. Chaves, M. Devitt, T. McGrath John McGrath, J. Ruppe, J H. Dwenger, A. B. Bender, H. J. Ackerman, C. Melz, E. McGrath, L. J. Young, C. Young. W. J. Mil-le-, W. Taylor, A. H. Chiihart, E. S. Chirhart, F. Maloney, F. Fishel, J. Haslam.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	'
PREPARATORY COURSE.
W. Hetz, A. Browne, W P. Mahon, A Rohrback, L. Gibert, G. Rhudius, H. Sells, F. Mattes, J. Flynn, E Cullinane, F. O’Kane, C. Brinkman, R. Fleming, M. G. Butler, J. M. Kelly, C. Murdock, 8. Murdock, N. Weney, W. Cleary, A. Bodine, Jas. Heffernan, J. Walsh, Jas. Solon, W. Browne, B. Casey, H. Noble, E. Piper, F. Bell, L. Mathers, R. Parrett, R. O’Connor, E. Taggart, A T. Moran, A. Spangler, E. Killean, D. Ryan, C. Brehmer, J. Ryan, W. Schofield.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly—Director op Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—H. Sells, C. Schneider. F. O’Kane, W. Barron; Grammar—J. Ruppe, W. Coghlin, E. Eishel, F. Johnson, F. Woeber, W. G. Butler, G. Hagan, W. J. Kelley; Geography and History—A. Mendel, W. Mahon, J. Gordon, G. O’Kane, A Browne, T. P. Bryne, F. Smith, A Spangler; Arithmetic—J. Flynn, J. B. Wilder, T. P. Byrne, R. E. O’Connor, E. Piper; Algebra—R. E. Fleming, H. O’Donnell, J. W. Guthrie, R. Parrett, L. Keen; Latin—C. McDermott, C. Tinley, C. Thiele, W. Schofield, J. D. McIntyre, E. Taggart; Greek—N.
‘ Ewing, N. Weny.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D.	G. Taylor, H. C. Snee, C. C. Echlin, J. 8. Courtney, C. E. Droste, D. O’Connor, W. T. Berthelet, A. H. Chirhart, W. M. Olds, J. H. Dwenger, A J.Van Mourick, F. Fishel, H. Metz, J. E. Chaves, L. J. Young, J. R. Bender, T. McGrath, C. Metz, H. J. Ackerman, J. McGrath, A. B. Bender, C. F. Young, F. B. Farrelly, E. McGrath, E. 8. Chirhart, W. J. Miller, E. H. Kearney, Michael Devitt.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame Univebsity.
JPrlce, $1, postpaid.
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa
CHEAP READING FOR THE MILLION.
- ■ >
Sadlier’s Household Library.
Comprising nearly 200 Volumes.
AT
15 AND 25 CENTS PER VOLUME, A Complete List sent free upon application.
It is the Intention of the .publishers to continue this series of Cheap and Popular Works without limit should the undertaking continue to receive the encouragement arid approval which has so far been bestowed upon it.
Nothing of the kind has yet been offered to the Catholic public that gives so much value for the money. The low price at which these books are sold, in quantities, enables their distribution in parishes to that extent as will, it is hoped, counteract the evil influences which result from a class of literature circulated to such an alarming extent under the title of “ Dime ” and “cheap” novels.
*#*Any volume sent, postage prepaid, to any address, on receipt of the advertised price, by the publishers.
THE NEW YORK TABLET FOR 1880.
The Largest and Cheapest Catholic Paper in the U. S.
EXTRAORDINARY INDUCEMENTS
To Subscribers remitting the amount of their subscriptions in advance. LOOK AT OUR
PREMIUMS!
The‘proprietors of the New York Tablet are pleased to announce that they have had engraved at great expense a fine portrait of Ireland’s Great Liberator,
DANIEL O’COHNELL, which they are able to state is the only correct and life-like portrait of O’Connell that has yet been produced. The grandson of this illustrious patriot, now residing in this country, expresses his opinion of this work as the most authentic likeness of “ O’Connell ” extant, and highly compliments the artist on his.great success in producing such a magnificent work of art. The size of the portrait is 19x24 inches. Or any of the following pictures: A fine steel engravingof DR. CAHILL, engraved expressly for presentation; “AGONY IN THE GARDEN,” one fine steel engraving; portrait of LEO XIII, Father Burke, the Sacred Heart of Jesus or Mary, Henry Grattan, or Father Mathew, all of which were prepared expressly for presentation to those who remit the amount of their subscription in advance. All letters should be addressed to the publishers, and remittances should be by post office order or by draft on New York, drawn to the order of the undersigned. Sample copies sent free.
D. & J. SADLIEH & CO.,
31 Barclay St., New York.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives-at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11	05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 525 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12	lOp.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 13 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo
2 40 a.m; Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4, 50 and A p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 413 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 ajn, Chicago 820 a.m.
■4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago, 8 p.m.
8 03 am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup't West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE,Gen’lpt.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	63
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls your attention to tlie folio-wins REASONS W Jt± Y —if about to make a Journey to the GREAT WE^T-you should Travel over it:
OD
PS s
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union Depots, at all important points. No change of cars between Chicago, Kansas City. Leavenworth. Atchison or Council Bluffs. Quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purposes, and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. A journey that furnishes the finest views of the fertile farms and pretty cities of Illinois. Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered as one of the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive at destination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty; calm, notangry. In brief, you get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of cost.
i^ggjcNE half view if care
That the unremitting care of the Chicago, Kock Island & Pacific Kailway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the great assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the great citiesof the United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while en route to behold the wonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health,.pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October, the Company every year puts on sale. May 1st, at all coupon ticket offices in the United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver, Colorado Springs and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties of ten or more, good for ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.
KEMEJIBEK, this is the most direct route for all points WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further information, time tables, maps or folders, call upon or address
Et. CAEIiE, Vice Pres't and Gen’l Manager, Chicago.
u. sot?- sro^xr,
Gen’l Ticket and PaasT Agent.
"Weeklv Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre flame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, op 70.
rrUTE A. V Jtil MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the I Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowiedged by the librarian. Please address
J. IF. EDWARDS,
.	Notre Daub, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, A.3STU JEWELRY.
All Kinds ot Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Matthews & Holt,
PLUMBERS & GASFITTERS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
GAS MACHINES,
•AND DEALERS IN GASOLINE, 75 Dearborn St,, Unity Block, w CHICAGO, ILL.
Refer by Permission to .University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Noy. IO, 1878, TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
going west.
		No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive		11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 * 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima			7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 A.M.	•••••••••
Ft. Wavne						2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	
Plymouth, Chicago,..					
					
G(		)ING EAST.			
		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, AtlanJEx.	No. 8, Mail
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive		9.10 pat. 2.46 a.m. 6.55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 « 1.30 a m 2.33 “ 4.05 “	: • • t 1 1
Crestl in e,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive		12.05 p.m. 12.35 « 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 652 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M, 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a. M 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 pa*. 3.30
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago dally except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at aD principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B.MJEBS, G.P.&T.A,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(MAIN BUILDINGS
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS, MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, / MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notrb Dame gives a more complete business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalouges, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. 8. C., Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.