Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEF^ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, AVG-UST 30, 1873.	Number.!,
Vacation Trip,
Whenever we can get away from the laborious duties of reading exchanges—thus giving our fingers a respite from writing articles with a pair of scissors—we instinctively turn our thoughts to Minnesota, in fact to St. Paul, where we have enjoyed the kind hospitality of the many friends we have in that flourishing city.
Starting from South Bend on the Sth of July, while the patriotic and sandy streets of that city were still enwrapped in the smoke'of Chinese crackers and pocket-pistols discharged by the rising generation and future hope of the Wagon City, we took a seat behind the first locomotive heading for Chicago.
We were a pleasant party of four that arrived in Chicago at about 8 o’clock p. m., and we were soon comfortably settled in the	.
New Matteson House,
on the corner of Wabash Avenue and Jackson Street, a hotel which if not so imposing and pretentious in its exterior as some of the huge caravansaries of the city, is a fine specimen of architecture, and a first-class house for travellers in all of its interior appointments. It was opened the 3rd of lusk-Fnbruary.-aboiiUwhislLtime^werhap-pcned to be in Chicago, and we were lodged in one of the best of 200 rooms which the hotel contains. The terms, §3,00. It is a pleasure to take your matutinal repast and newspaper in the large dining-room, where, while waiting for the smiling, obliging servant who had lent such an attentive ear to your demands for beefsteak or mutton-chop, and then glided of! with the air of a benignant masculine fairy to get your breakfast for you, you have a view of the lake and of all the other tables to enable you to while away the time until your coffee comes. They set an excellent table, have obliging waiters, and gentlemanly men at the head of each department of the hotel,
Mr. Hill—Robert Hill, a fine specimen of a man who can keep hotel, is the proprietor. He has been in the business,twenty years, and at the time of the great fire was the owner and proprietor of the Matteson House, comer of Dearborn and Randolph Streets, where we first began to appreciate him as a man who knew his business. The new Matteson House with all its modern improvements •was built under the direct supervision of Mr. Hill, at a cost of §275,000, including the furnishing. The land on which the hotel stands is valued at $150,000.
Making the Matteson our headquarters, we made excursions through the city; of course we do not pretend to give a description of-Chicago, for is it not well known to the uttermost parts of the earth ? nor to tell our impressions, nor name the friends we saw. We will confine ourselves to the remark that P. L. Garrity has some very fine cigars at the Matteson House,—of course this is for those who smoke,—and if you like candy better, you can get the best
of P. L. G. on Van Buren Street, east of Clark, and not far from the corner.	-
Starting one morning at nine o’clock on the Sheboygan, we arrived at the port of Milwaukee towards six o’clock in the evening of the same day. We dislike to say anything against conveyances we have made use of to get from one point to another—we have never spoken a harsh word of a mule we bestrode, although it was many years ago and in a foreign land, and the mule’s character wouldn’t suffer much if we were to let outon him—but we must say that the pretence of a dinner they gave us on that Chenoydan boat, as one of our party, who knows what Chenoydan is, aptly-termed our vessel, clearly proved that the good cook had made up his mind net to go that trip, and that the bad one had taken his place. I owe a grudge to both—for that dinner spoiled our water trip and put a premature termination to our voyaging on the lake. We made
Milwaukee
towards evening, and despite the ill effects of the bad din ner, we admired the beauty of the scene as we approached the city. We found a hack ready to receive us or any other traveller, and like a good Samaritan ever willing to .take us in. We drove at once to a hotel the name of which we cannot call to mind, ner do we care to do so; it wasn’t the Newhall, but reported to us as the best in the city. We hope it isn’t, for it would be a blue look-out for travel- " lers staying a while in that city—and it would be a pity that such a beautiful city, where the inhabitants evidently enjoy themselves as well as attend strictly to business, should have such a drawback as peor accommodations for strangers. We called on the Right Rev. Bishop of Milwaukee and Father Kundig, the Vicar General and first pioneer of the great State of Wisconsin, a man who has done as much as any one man for the prosperity of the State, and perhaps more. He kindly showed us what was of interest in the city, and took particular delight in pointing out the prominent places from the Rotunda of the new Court House, whither he had kindly accompanied us.
Father Corby having come from Watertown to meet us, we started one evening for
Waukesha, a little village some eighteen or twenty miles, we believe from Milwaukee. Waukesha has become renowned for the water of the Bethesda Spring, certainly the most extraordinary water ever discovered. The water is dear as crystal, cool, colorless, and without any taste of minerals which sometimes makes other water nauseous though it may be beneficial to the disgusted drinker. It is the most delicious draught a thirsty man, or woman either, can drink; and while it is so pleasant to the taste, and so light on the stomach that you can drink many glasses of it in rapid succession without feeling the inconvenient heaviness on. the stomach that the too abundant potation of other water
2
THE SCHOLASTIC.
is sure to create, its healing properties are simply wonderful. We had heard of the*water before; and although the testimony of its curative qualities came from creditable and authentic sources, still as we hadn’t Bright’s disease, nor any other malady considered by the faculty as incurable, we did not fully appreciate the importance of the discovery made by Col. Richard Dunbar when he accidentally found out the qualities of the w’ater by the cure effected in himself of the diabetes, a disease for which he had in vain sought a remedy from the best physicians of America and Europe. The matter was brought home still more closely 10 us, it is true, by the cure of one residing in the same place with us, whom we saw leave home dropsical and looking like a corpse, and who a few weeks afterwards, after drinking the Bethesda water in Waukesha, presented hims< If to us looking hearty and strong, and who still continues in good health. And yet we were indifferent—that is, we did not become enthusiastic on the subject; but as we were near Waukesha we determined to go there, especially as we were tired out, drowsy, and, if it bad been any one else, we would have pronounced ourselves indolent or lazy. The physicians told us that bile was what was the matter with us, and we were assured that the Bethesda water was as good for our insignificant case as for the more serious cases of calculus, stone and other grave diseases. So we tried it, and with perfect success. But what we saw and heard while at Waukesha, from those who had been benefited by the water, convinced us that we would be doing good to our fellow-sufferers in this vale if we could induce them to try this water. In our own case we can testify to the splendid effect it has upon one who is tired out and debilitated by constant routine of indoor work, without much exercise, and naturally bilious. We use the water now simply as drinking water when we are thirsty, and generally lake several glasses before breakfast. It keeps us in good humor all day; and our physical system being all right and nerves firm, the ordinary little troubles of life instead of exhausting our patience and making us fretful, simply add a further zest to life by mixing a little of the bitter—just a soupQon —with the sweets of life, and it takes a pretty rough wind to ruffle our plumage. You may think this is of little consequence, and that a little ipecac, or some other drug might produce the same effect. But you would be egregiously mistaken should you let your thoughts run in that direction. No drugs can produce the feeling of good health, the general sense of bi&i-etre, that the use of Bethesda by the man of average health produces upon him. And besides it prevents him from being the victim of the terrible diseases which the free use of the water will cure. Now we have seen men who were cured, some of dropsy, others of diabetes, and others who, though they did not tell us what they had been suffering from when they arrived at the Spring, averred one and all that they had been bene fited by the water. We would, had we the space, publish some of the letters, like those of Mr. Furlong of New Orleans, and W. A. Baldwin of Toronto, C. W., who was cured of Bright’s disease of an incurable type, and many other letters, but we must limit ourselves to this, that the testimony of thousands shows that the Bethesda water is a sure remedy for the cure of Diabetes, Bright’s disease and all diseases of the kidneys. One to whom we were recommending the water smiled at our earnestness, and remarked that “he had not faith enough.” Now, begging pardon of our friend for saying so, we do say that such an answer is
simply ridiculous. Although the cures are marvellous, wonderful, there is nothing miraculous in them—since the cure is effected by the natural qualities of the water, qualities that God has given them to effect the cures naturally; No matter whether you believe all that is said of it, or not one tittle, use the water if you are diseased and you will be cured.	‘
Colonel Dunbar, who resides at Waukesha, takes a lively interest iu the poor sufferers who go thither sick and come away cured. We have known the Colonel several years, and highly esteemed him; butsiaceour visit to Waukesha, where we saw how energetically he pursued his course of doing good to thousands of those who are the most to be pitied, by making the Bethesda water known all over the world, especially iu America and Europe, and this despite the obstacles which prejudice and ignorance placed in his way, our esteem for him, has increased tenfold.
Ahoy! Oil the St.
The often contemplated trip down the St. Jos. ph’s River to Niles was at last accomplished in the early days of July. It was July the 2ud, if we mistake not, (that is long before the South Bend nautical exploit,) that our three good and fair galleys, the Santa Maria, the Pinta and the Niua darted from the northern point of St. Angela’s Island. They were manned by the merriest crews that ever beheld the swift Sr. Joseph, and we need not say that the luxuries of the season had been amply provided to drive away the melancholy thoughts which prey upon empty stomachs.
Tlieb >ats having been launched without much difficulty by their sturdy crews, and provided as we have said against all danger from starvation, etc., the signal for starting was given at 10 a. m. The boats were to keep fifty yards apart, following one another; the little Nina, with Rev Fathers A. Lemmonier J. C. Carrier,. J. Zahm and 0. Berdel in the van; the Santa Maria following, carrying seven aboutd, Prof. A. J. Stace, coxswain, and the Pinta, with seven more aboard, nobly bringing up the rear (which she never did before).
The dangers of navigation upon the blue (we imagine they are blue, like all other waters) waters of the St. Joseph are not few nor despicable. Only a few rods from the point of embarkation, a huge boulder firmly driven in the swiftest part of the current suggested momentary fears of ill omen for the rest of the voyage. The Nina swung around it in approved style and in this was skilfully imitated by her two followers. The Dutch Gap, famous iu Scholastic lore, was the next distressing peril. The St. Joseph took it, once upon a lime, into its head to change its bed, it being too long we judge (it was at the time “ Put me in my little bed’’was so much in vogue,) and regardless of the property of Mr. Von Dickenhausen, took a shortcut across his field which it divided unequally into two parts, making him at the same time the sole undisputed proprietor of an Island Well the new channel had been cursed by the evil-eyed Von Dickenhausen, so the legend says, and many a reckless adventurer had risked his life in its angry current. The old trees snatched from the stolen field blocked and obstructed the navigator’s path, in a manner that made the boldest heart quiver with fear. The Nina slackened speed, and bade her followers to be on the watch and put on the brakes also. The peril, as it drew nearer, like fabled tales, grew less; and bolder grew the hearts of the shirking gal-
I
THE SCHOLASTIC.	3
leys. Little Nina with prow well directed, and vigorous dash from the oar, nimbly jumped over the abyss audits whirlpool and in an instant more swam far beyond, just in good sight of her followers which followed her lucky track with the same dexterity and luck.
The shores of the river although never celebrated in verse or prose, are full of charms and enchantments. The high shaded bluffs, and the green meadows alternating from the right to the left, and then from left to right, make decidedly the most pleasing sight pleasure-seekers and tourists can wish for. The delightful sceuery presented to the gaze of the travellers gladdened their hearts as they went on. $	But everything has its bright and its dark side. We had
soon to watch the march of stormy clouds over our heads :	, and seek the protection of the hospitable shore. It was not
difficult to find a shelter along the thickly shaded banks, i	and the mishap produced moremerriment than regret.
’	The boats resumed their march soon after the shower
: ,	had passed, leaving the lazy crew of the Santa Maria far
s	behind. IPe suppose that they had been more prudent
J	than the rest of us, or sooner overtaken by the squall: at
j	any rate they plied th^ir oars very sluggishly when we first
j	perceived them coming leisurely, nigh a mile behind us.
We passed in sight of the old mill, and had a glimpse at the miller, rosy looking and talkative as ever the St. Ed’s, knew him to be, when they honored him with a visit on *	the occasion of their Summer Picnic. We hailed him in
i	sight and made him our bow's, which owing to circum-
stancts, were scarcely noticed by the farinaceous Cerberus. On we went. In half an hour later the dingy cottages of Bertrand and its venerable old-fashioned bridge were in sight. Three cheers for Bertrand, once famous and thickly '	populated, now alas, reduced toJa mere name. We tried in
:	vain to discover the little church built years ago and still
!	standing on the high bluff, but we could not, owing to the
i	many trees that covered it from our sight. Just by stood
j	once St. Mary’s Academy; we speak of twenty and twen-
[	ty- five years ago,- when the Sisters of the Holy Cross first
1	established them selves in “the United States. They re-
moved later to where now stands the grand educational es-,	' establishment known as St. Mary’s Academy Notre Dame,
|	Indiana.
i	The grandeur of the scenery and the reminiscences which
|	were brought back to our memory did not distract us to
I	such an extent as to make us indifferent to a certain feeling
I	usually experienced at mid-day; our appetites had grown
ravenous, and therefore a signal was given to land. We had reached a delightful spot for refection, and it was nearly noon. The temptation was not resisted. Provisions were • spread bountifully on the greensward and justice done to them by the hungry crowd. While this was going on, Pirates got aboard the Nina and abducted a bottle of anticholera medicine. The crew of the Santa Maria would !	seem to have to answer the charge made against them.
The fact is that there were some very bad people aboard that galley, people quite able to smuggle away cholera re-•	medies and use them forthwith as preventives to such a
. dreaded disease. Several other landings were made in order to view the beautiful groves on the shore of the river.
At one o’clock the Niles dam was sighted; we had therefore gone over some twelve miles. Precautionary warnings from the Nina informed her companions of the approaching danger and bade them seek the shore. The three boatsjvere then skilfully lifted over the high embank-
ment and carried nearly a hundred yards just beyond the fall of the dam, where all re-embarked without accident. Many people whose attention had been called towards the hardy navigators during the launching of the boats, cheered them on as they went with the swift current. Niles was reached. Three cheers for Niles. The best speed was now made, all the oars were lustily plied—the wooden bridge was cleared in a twinkling, then the iron bridge was safely passed, but unfortunately the channel was missed. The middle arch proved the shallowest, and soon the Nina ran on a gravel bank but cleared herself quickly and fell again, into deep water. The Pinta, more careless and swifter, followed the dangerous road and rushed upon the same gravel bank, where it remained firmly fixed. The Santa Maria, discovering the accident, passed within respectful distance and gave cheers of encouragement to the Pinta, whose crew worked vigorously to extricate themselves. At last the landing was reached, and the travellers got for the last time on terra- firma. Half an hour later the boats were placed on board a car of the M. C., and at P. M. all were back to Notre Dame. Thus passed one of the pleasantest trips of the season, the like of which we hope to enjoy again.	Nika.
Obituary.
We have a sad duty to perform in recording^the death of our beloved and universally esteemed father and friend, the Rev. H. L. Thiele, who, after a short illness of only nine days, and having been comforted with the Sacraments of the Holy Catholic Church, departed this]life at the age of fifty-four years, yesterday morning, on Sunday, the 17th. of August. After a solemn Mass, in the presence of all the Rev. Fathers and Brothers of the Order of the Holy Cross, many of the lay professors and students of the University, and a considerable concourse of the people of the congregation, his earthly remains were deposited in the chapel of the graveyard of Notre Dame. R. L P.
With a view to honor the memory of the deceased—to give expression to bur feelings of love and esteem for him and of sorrow for our loss which is his gain, and to do justice to the expectations of his many friends and relatives, both in this and the old country, we proceed to give a short sketch of his life, as far as we are able to do so from a few private papers left’by him in our hands, and from the pleasant recollections of his intimate acquaintance and friendship, which we enjoyed for the last six months of his' life.
Henry Ludwig Thiele, having finished his education at one of the Colleges or Universities of his native country, Hanover, Germany, and after spending a few years as a teacher at the Catholic Academy of Papenburg, Hanover, and some other places, came to this country about twenty-five years ago from Osnabruck, where his uncle, the Rev. A. Thiele, Pastor of St. John’s Church and Counsellor of the Consistory, a venerable old priest, will be sadly surprised at the news of his nephew’s death. In the fall of the year 1854, H. L. Thiele was ordained priest by the Rt Rev. Bishop Friedr. Baraga, of blessed memory, at Sault' St. Mary, upper Michigan, and soon after sent by him as a missionary, endowed with extensive ecclesiastical powers, into the wild districts of Lake Superior, among the Indiana and a few white settlers scattered in the mines along the southern shore of that lake. In that American Siberia,

4
THE S C HO L A S T I C .
■where for six months of the year they glide about oh snow-shoes; where in fall and spring, and at sudden thaws, they cross the partly frozen lakes and swamps, half creeping and half swimming on long poles and planks, to keep themselves from breaking through the ice; where the cold north wind congeals the blood in your veins, and freezes the quicksilver in the tubes; where the compass and the polar star, and the moss on the primeval trees are the only guides through the virgin forests; where hungry wolve trace the footsteps of the lonesome traveller; there we find the Rev. Father Thiele laboring earnestly, devotedly, and successfully for a period of twelve years, preaching the Gospel, gathering up the lost sheep into the flock of the Lord; establishing congregations, building churches, and carrying the consolations of the holy Catholic religion to the doors of the poor, the sick, the afflicted and the forlorn. What a treasure in heaven! Among other churches, that of Marquette, the present seat of the Bishop, was built by Father Thiele, who in so doing divested himself even of his little personal savings. Eagle Harbor, Rockland, Marquette, Calumet, etc., which twenty years ago were but swamps and wilderness, are now flourishing congregations.
Among the papers left by the deceased we find a valuable manuscript treating of the mode of living, the manners and customs of those northern Indians, which in due time may give rise to interesting publications. Late in the year 1866 the Rt. Rev. Bishop Baraga sent his beloved, faithful son, worthy of all confidence, “Dominum Ludovicum Thiele” to Germany, more particularly to Vienna, with full powers to make collections, and receive the gifts of Catholic charity for his poor diocese on Lake Superior; and - Father Thiele did not come back with empty hands, having enlisted the sympathy of the ecclesiastical dignitaries in Vienna and elsewhere for his noble work. After his return, in the month of December, 1867, he received an Exeat from his beloved Bishop Baraga, which is couched in terms of the most paternal benevolence, stating that by the advice of the physicians Father Thiele’s health needed a milder climate; acknowledging that he had served as a missionary - with self sacrificing zeal from the year 1854 to 18G7; and recommending him to any Bishop in whose diocese he might choose to labor. If we are not mistaken, it was then that Father Thiele went to the eastern part of Ohio, Alliance or Canton, or that neighborhood, where he built a church. A short time afterwards we find him again laboring in the vineyard of the Lord on Lake Superior, up to the fall of the year 1872, when he made an attempt to join the Order of the Rev. Fathers Capuchins, at Calvary, Wisconsin. But their severe and strict observance was too much for Ins enfeebled health, and so towards the end of the year he looked for and found a new and pleasant home at Notre Dame. There, as elsewhere, he soon made many friends, winning souls by his amiable disposition and unpretending manners; but his health and strength seemed declining. With zeal and devotedness, however, he taught a few hours a day at the University, the students loving and esteeming him, the Fathers of the Order of the Holy Cross showing him eveiy kindness and attention, the lay-professors being happy to enjoy his ever welcome company. Thus the scholastic year closed and vacation commenced. Father Thiele, apparently well, happy and contented, spent the first four weeks of vacation in quiet retirement with his friends on the lovely grounds of Notre Dame (than which a more beautiful spot cannot be found either
near or far). On the 4th of August, however, he started again for his beloved Lake Superior, desirous of seeing once more his friends up there, his friends on the way, and his Grace the Rt. Rev. Bishop Mrack of Marquette. After a few days, however, he came back, sick and exhausted, without accomplishing his object. The most loving care and attendance bestowed upon him by his friends, and by the Brothers and Sisters of the Community, who watched day and night by his bedside, could not stay the progress of the disease; the medical art was unable to check the inflammation of the bowels and prevent it from spreading into the lungs and brain; and at last, on the second day after the Feast of the Assumption, on the Sth day of the disease, the patient suf1 ferer, under the hands of assisting priests, yielded up the ghost. “ Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord; they may now rest from their labors, for their works follow them.”
In the funeral sermon, delivered by the Rev. Father Oech-tering, the words of our Divine Saviour, recorded by St. Mark x, 29,30, found a striking application; the Catholic missionary, leaving parents, brethren and home for the sake of the Gospel, receives a hundred times as much nowin this time; as indeed our beloved Father Thiele, though far away from home,concluded his earthly pilgrimage in a sweet home and surrounded bjr hundreds of kind Fathers, Brethren, Sisters, and children, one of whom is his faithful and affectionate	O. S.
A Msthoddst- Paper on the Catholic View of Education.
The St. Louis Christian Advocate, commenting upon an address of Brother Edward, Principal of the Christian Brothers, on Education, says:
Well, there it is now; what of it? It tells us that Catholics are opposed to the American system of-common schools; a fact which might easily have been known and read of all menfor years past. So far as we know, they never tried to conceal their opposition to our school system.
It tells us that Catholics are forced to pay for the support of schools which their conscience will not allow them to use, and this, also, has been proclaimed through the length and breadth of the land, for years past.
Nothing new in this. It tells us further, that persons have sent to Ireland in order to induce young men to come to this country, and engage in the work of teaching And what of that ? Catholics believe they are right, and labor to propagate their peculiar doctrines. We send missionaries to Catholic countries, and Catholics send missionaries to Protestant countries. The Protestants in France, Italy and other countries where, they are greatly in minority, desire help from abroad, and so far as this is concerned where is the difference? “Ohl but Catholics are opposed to some of the institutions of this country.” No doubt they are: and Protestants are opposed to some of the institutions of Catholic countries. “ But Catholics would break down our system of schools.” Yes, we believe they would, and Protestants, or many of them, would break down their system of schools. “ But our system is right.” Aye, that’s the very question in dispute, and allow us to say that question will not be settled by bandying epithets, by mere persecution. No great principle or question, vital to the interests of man, can be settled in this way. Persecu
THE SCHOLASTIC.
tion and force may overcome the weaker party, but they do not change the deep and earnest convictions of mind and heart. Truth, justice and fairness must be the weapons of those who would win a permanent victory.
The struggle in regard to education in this country will be a fierce and fearful one. You may depend on it. No child’s-play will characterize or terminate it, and there will be need for all the cool deliberation, the caution, the care, the foresight and wisdom that can be commanded. We look towards the future, and not the distant future either, with painful apprehensions. Men are prone to yield themselves to the impulses of blind passion, unjustifiable prejudice, and to be guided by these, when a good conscience and sound reason alone should prevail. And for this reason, so far as this question is concerned, we look to the future with dread.
What is right, what is fair, what is true, what is good, should be, and if we act wisely will be the themes of discussion on this, as on every other subject. We should look at it calmly and discuss it in all soberness and candor.
It would be useless to deny that there is in the public mind a widespread and growing dissatisfaction in regard to the existing system of public schools. The superintendent of these schools in Jefferson City alluded to this in his last annual report. His language was plain, forcible and truthful. Unless we have been misinformed, dissatisfaction has been openly expressed, in the Annual Convention of Episcopalians, lately held in this city, when at least two men—men of standing and worth, and both men of large experience as educators—stated that they felt compelled either to teach their children themselves, or to send them to Catholic schools, as there were no other schools near them which they could conscientiously patronize. '
The circular above, and the Catholics generally,’denominate our common or public schools as “ Godless schools, hot-beds of vice and ifnmorality,” etc. This is, perhaps, going to far. But what are the facts? Here in the city, where we spend nearly a million dollars, annually, to sustain these schools, no candid man will say that many of the teachers are not competent, worthy, Christian men and women. Nor will he deny that many others of these teachers are mere smatterers in learning, twaddlers in philosophy, and “ free thinkers,” or Jinfidels in religion. We need not seek to ignore these facts. They “ will not down at our bidding.” They will come up—will be recognized and must be discussed, and the more candidly and honestly we all look at and discuss them, the better it will be.
Our educational, our public system, needs revision, and needs to be revised that everything consistent with truth, justice and fairness, should be done to harmonize the minds and feelings of all concerned. Not only the religionists as such, but the tax payers are disquieted, and the disquietude is increasing, and the danger is increasing. Then the modus operandi of many, perhaps most, of these schools needs to be changed. While it may not be right to say they are “ hot-beds of vice and immorality,” it cannot be denied that many of them are not the nurseries of morals and manners they should be. Hence the demand for improvement. Unless great care be taken, this is a question on which we will run into agrarianism and communism. The tendency is in this direction, and “facile discensus,” etc.
We expect to perform our part whatever that may be, in the discussion of this subject, and in this, as in other matters, will try “to do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly with God.”
Th® $shulastw. Published every Weelc during Term Time, at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
Oneyear.................................      $1	00
One session (5 months)......................... 50	*
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Good boys wanted or none at all.
The Church will soon be covered.
Telegraphy is to be taught next year.
The Juniors’ play-room has received a substantial new floor.
The St. Joseph Farm produced 400 tons of hay this year.
Beware of water-melons and fruits in general. Cholera —etc.
Mr. Bagley thinks that he can build a boat that will beat the Pinta.	•	.
The Classes will begin September 2d—the first Tuesday of the month.
The foundations of the Provincial House, facing the lower lake, are laid.
The flower garden in front of the College has been kept this vacation in excellent trim by Bro. Bonaventure.
We hope that the N. D. U. Brass Band for 1873-’74 will surpass all its predecessors. If it does not we will be deceived.	•
The Circulating Library-room was handsomely calso-mined by Otto Freekman, of South Bend, who is doing some fresco-work at the College.
The new Laundry Establishment, three stories high, 100 feet by 40, is now under roof, and will soon be ready to receive the steam. It will be one of the most complete establishments of the kind in the country.
Many visitors have been at the College during vacation, and at times no one but our polite concierge, Bro. Auguste, was at home to receive them. Vice-President Colfax, with some friends of his from the Atlantic coast, were here in July.
As we write, solitary and alone in our Island Sanctum, not even the sound of a brass instrument, softened by distance and thick walls, falling upon our ears, our memory sets before us the outgoings of some of the inmates of Notre Dame. Rev. Father Sorin is still in France, where doubtless he will remain until McMahon establishes peace in the land and somebody on the throne, or until the Communists begin to amuse themselves by setting Paris on fire again and massacreing the good men still left in the country.
Very Rev. Father Granger, the Provincial, has been-busy with the Annual Retreat—which, together with Rev. Father Corby, he preached to the Priests and Brothers— and assigning obediences.
Rev. Father Lemonnier is very busy making every
6
THE SCHOLASTIC.
thing ready for a grand year of ’73-’74. A short stay in Wisconsin was scarcely a shadow of a vacation trip, and we hope he will have a few days more of leisure before the opening of classes.
Rev. Father Brown has returned from his trip to Ohio, improved in health, we hope, and ready to resume the du ties of his office.
Rev. Father Toohey went on business matters to St. Joseph’s Mo., and, is now preaching the Annual Retreat for the Sisters at St. Mary’s, preparatory to entering upon his duties as Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. Father Condon is preaching the Annual Retreat of the Sisters at Notre Dame, and will then be associated with Rev. Father Cooney as Missioner.
Rev. Father Vagnier having remained faithful at his post, indulging at times in a somnolent game of croquet, will take a few days of vacation “ out West! ” He has the Ordo well advanced towards completion.
We had the pleasure of meeting Rev. Father Corby in Milwaukee and spending a day with him at Waukesha,— where the greates and most beneficial mineral water is to be had,’at the Bethesda Springs, and of which we partook largely. Father Corby is now with us, but before we go to press he will be b ick to the Badger State, seeing after his new church and college.
Rev. Father Spiddard has been busy with the building of his new school-house in South Bend, which we hope will soon be finished, that he may have time to recuperate before October and frost set in.
Rev. Father Peter Lauth ha= succeeded in putting up a fine brick school-house, two stories high, the upper part of which he will use for Divine Worship until he puls up his new church.	_
Personal.
The Festival of the Assumption terminated the Annual Spiritual Retreat of the Community of Notre Dame. On the following Sunday the various offices and employments were assigned to the members of the Community by the Provincial;
It will be interesting to our readers to know something about the College appointments. Rev. Fathers Lemonnier, Brown, Vagnier, Louage, Carrier, remain in statu quo. Rev. Father Toohey is Prefect of Discipline, vice Rev. Father Condon who is appointed Missionary with Rev. Father Cooney. Rev. Father Maher resumes his old position in the Students’ Office, and Brother Francis of Sales assumes the responsibility of the Stewardship. Father John O’Connell goes to Watertown as one of the corps of thorough teachers which Rev. Father Corby has grouped around him for that young but flourishing institution. Brother Camillus also wends his way to Watertown, Wisconsin. Brother Marcellinus assumes the charge of the Junior Departmefit of Notre Dame.
An appointment that gives us personally much'pleasure is that of Brother Ferdinand, who has been added to the efficient l>ddy of workmen in this Office. Brother Ferdinand is.'in the Stereotyping Department, and will be succeeded in his old employment by Brother Athanasius.
Bros. Alban, Norbert-Joseph, Paul, are appointed Preets in their respective Departments. All the lay Professors of last year will be with us next year.
We met Prof. Howard a few days ago, and found him strong and hearty, ready for the opening of the session.
Prof. Stace has been vacating, and we have not had a line from him, nor a glance at him, since a parting glimpse we had of his umbrella on his return from the boating expedition to Niles.
Prof. Ivers we have had the pleasure of seeing several times during vacation, spending his time philosophically sub tegminefagi.
Prof. Tong has been busy during the major part of vacation making preparations for two partnerships he intends entering. One is with Mr. Hagerty, a young lawyer of South Bend, and the other one—isn’t.
Prof. Baasen will return in September, refreshed by the genial clime of Wisconsin.
Prof. Clarke has been spending his vacation in the Buckeye State, and will be with us in September.
Prof. Lyons is at present in Chicago, where he will remain for the week, after having taken a short trip on the R. R. to Milwaukee and Watertown. After the first Tuesday of September his friends will find him faithful at his post in the College.
The 2nd of August.
A beautiful festival is celebrated every year at Notre Dame on the 2nd of August, in the Chape! of the Portiun-cula. This year the number of pious pilgrims from the surrounding parishes was very great—all intent on gaining the plenary indulgence granted to those visiting the Chapel on tbit day. Masses were said in constant succession from half-past four in the morning until nine o’clock, at which hour a solemn high Mass was celebrated and a few words were addressed to the crowd who had assembled in and around the Chapel. There is every indication that the. pilgrimage to the Portiuncula of Notre Dame will become more and more popular every year.
News from Very Sev. Father General.
Very Rev. Father General is still in France: at the last report he was presiding at the Spiritual Retreat of several hundred of his Religious at the College of Precigne, in the Department of Sarthe. It is at Precigne that Very Rev. Father Sorin made his course of studies some forty years ago. This splendid establishment is yet presided over by the same worthy President who taught rhetoric to Father Sorin. It must be a cause of great happiness to both to meet together and witness the spectacle of a large family of Religious to which the President, Rev. A. Boutier, gives hospitality for the sake of his old and well-remembered pupil, Very Rev. Father Sorin. As we write, some two hundred more Religious are together at Notre Dame, performing the same spiritual exercises as their brethren in France. At this time last year we had in our midst Very Rev. Father Drouelle, the then Provincial of France, Rev. Father Champeau, the worthy President of our college in Paris, Rev. Father Reze, Assistant General, Brothers Gregory, Victor, etc., who barely escaped martyrdom at the hands of the Communists, all of whom are now assembled at Precigne with Rev. Father General; may they enjoy the richest blessings which brothers meeting together are sure to draw down from Heaven. May
THE SCHOLASTIC.	7
* _____________________________________________—------
this-be our happiness here. Ecce quam ionum St quam ucundum, lidbitare fratres in unum.
An artist painter of great merit from Rome is announced by Very Rev. Father General. We hope this artist will not disappoint us. His name is Aristi. We will say more about him when we know for certain that he is coming. Meanwhile we feel perfectly satisfied to see our Drawing Classes under the excellent management of Bro. Albert.
’	It seems that the Holy Father knows American posi-
tioeness pretty well. They mean what they say: he knows it, and therefore would not feel like refusing them what might appear even rash petitions.
J	Very Rev. Father General gives us the following beauti-
P ful incident characteristic of the Holy Father’s great gen-I erosity:
I	It seems that Very Rev. Father General in one of his
I rambles through the studios of Rome came upon a marble 1 statue which an artist was about finishing. It was a Mater ■	Admirdbilis. The subject represents the Blessed Mother in
•	' deep meditation, sitting by -her spinning-wheel. It has
always been V. R. F. Sorin’s favorite representation of the Blessed Virgin. Of course he wanted it—wanted it, right away. There was only one little obstacle to his getting it. The artist regretted to inform him that the statue was intended for the Holy Father. Well, this was rather an obstacle. Many, a one would have given up the idea of ever getting the Mater Admirdbilis. Not so Father General. He recommended his petition to the artist himseltj and on his side prepared for a vigorous attack. But we will let him relate the incident. After speaking of several objects of art which he has purchased in Rome, he says:	'
“ The second is a marble, a Mater Admirabilis, which was being j»	made for the Pope: to-day at 11% a. m. w.e go to a private audi-
ence: if I can prove to the Holy Father that I love very much his chosen model, etc., he may let me carry it away : I am preparing my speech.
“The other two are also marble sculptures of great beauty.
“ July 3.—Yesterday, at last, I had an audience, more delightful, if possible, than any of the nine audiences I received before. The Holy Father was more of a father to me than I had ever seen him since twenty years—a few moments afterwards one of the first sculptors in Rome went to the Vatican with a splendid Mater Admirabilis to present it to his Holiness as a token of his veneration. (I have the little incident in writing from the sculptor himself.) ‘But, most holy Father,’ said the artist, ‘ here is the card of an American Missionary who came to my studio while I was finishing this your graceful and favorite design ; I told him it was for your Holiness. I was giving it the last touch ; he looked at it none the less attentively. It appears, most Holy'Father, it pleased him so much that he declared he must have it. Those Americans are so positive 1’
“ I answerd ; if his Holiness permits !’
“ Ah !—Padre Sorin I—certainly, with pleasure. I bless it for *	him ; let him have it.”
“ I have the pleasure to announce to you that it is to be shipped this morning for Notre Dame.”
’	- New Church in Water town.
' Rev. Father Corby is now engaged in putting up one of .	the finest as well as largest churches in Wisconsin. It is
-	nearly two hundred feet in length, and eighty in width, the
the plans having been drawn by the celebrated Mr. Keely of New York city.
Quite a sensation was created not only within the limits of Watertown but throughout the States, and even across the
water on the Old Sod and in Old England, by the fact of the corner stone of the church having been taken from the Rock of Cashel, in Ireland. The stone, weighing sixteen hundred pounds, is now in Watertown, having been forwarded from Ireland by the Dean of the Chapter of Cashel, free of charge as far as Ne w York, and thence transferred to Watertown at the expense of some of Father Corby’s old war friends who considered it a pleasure to do an act of kindness for their former chaplain.
In the British Parliament, when the debate on the bill for restoring the Rock of Cashel to its former and proper owners was debated, the sending of this “ Corner Stone” to the “far West” of America was brought forward as a proof of the veneration the Rock is held in by Irish Catholics; and through the reports of the debate the name of Watertown became famous throughout England and Ireland.
The corner-stone will be laid on the 2nd Sunday of September, at which ceremony Father Corby expects to have a number of Right Rev. Prelates and Rev. Clergymen.
There is quite a coincidence in the date, which was not remarked by Father Corby when he determined to have the laying of the corner-stone on the second Sunday of September. He wanted to have it on the first Sunday: but something, we do not remember what, prevented him from settling on that day, and he fixed on the next Sunday. His attention was called by some of the members to the fact that the second Sunday of September would fall on the 14th, the day on which Very Rev. Father Sorin, the pioneer of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, said his first Mass, years ago, after his arrival in America, and the festival of the day is the Exaltation of the Holy Cross.
May everything succeed well with Rev. Father Corby and bis splendid Warertownians, and may we be there to see.
Many items and articles intended for this number have been unavoidably left over for next week.
SAINT ‘2USYS ACADHSY.
- St. Mary’s Academy, July 26, 1873.
It may possibly interest the absentees to know how the vacation pupils pass the time during the holidays. The report is—quite pleasantly; for no pupils remain at the Academy during vacation except those who prefer its simple routine to the more exciting scenes of city life or the fatigue of going somewhere in search of pleasure, comfort or fun.
The mornings are devoted to light duties, study and music one hour each. The afternoons to reading (they have access to a splendid library),.sewing and amusements, varied by long walks or picnic excursions to the neighboring groves.
The Fourth of July was celebrated with great spirit—for though the rain prevented any out door display, the young ladies improvised a social Entertainment which did credit to their good management and patriotic sentiments. This Entertainment was honored by the presence of several distinguished guests, now spending the summer at St. Mary’s. A spirited composition was read by one of the pupils. Music, song and lively conversation gave additional zest to the nice things served out by the young hostesses, and all parties pronounced the whole affair a decided success. ’	‘
The accounts of the Commencement Exercises that have
appeared in our leading journals prove that St. Mary’s
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Academy is highly appreciated by those whose experience and good taste render their opinions valuable.
The 25th and 26th of June were indeed days of deep interest and unmarred satisfaction to those who participated in the Exercises—for every one did well the part assigned her, and very many delighted their friends by the high excellence they so modestly displayed in the musical department, the beauty of the Essays, the graceful delivery of the same, and the high premiums merited in the School of Design, Foreign Languages, and the highest English branches.
It was a source of great pleasure and encouragement both to the Faculty and pupils to see such rich results from the labors of the year; and this pleasure was enhanced by the presence of such a large number of St. Mary’s tried and true friends who delight to witness this crowning scene of the scholastic year, and by their kind words encourage the laborers in their noble work.
The Right Rev. Bishops and Rev. Clergy wlio honored the occasion, and the many illustrious guests who showed such a generous interest in the Exercises, are gratefully remembered, and their presence will ever be most welcome at St. Mary’s.
To the absent pupils we wish a happy vacation and speedy return to their Academic home on the verdant banks of the St. Joseph’s River.
Letters from Mother Superior announce her return in a few weeks.
The hotel-keepers at Niagara are discussing a plan to stop tourists five miles from the falls and stuff their ears with cotton to prevent them from hearing the roar without first paying a fee of three dollars.
NILES I SO UTH BEND RR
-	GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles, -	6.50 a m. I Arrive South Bend, -	7 30 a.m
“	9.35 a.m. I	“	“	10.15 a.m
“	4.50 p.m. I	“	“	5.30 p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.40 a.m. 1 Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
“	“	11.45 a.m. I “	12 25 p.m
“	“	6.30 p.m. |	“	7.10 p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m “	“	5.30 p.m. |	“	6.30 p.m
*	S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
UKIVEESITY OF K0TEE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.	’
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS: Matriculation Fee, ........	$5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition iLatin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, --------- 12 50 Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	-- 10 00
Use of Violin,	2 00
Drawing, -	-	-15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, ....	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial, $5; Scientific, S8; Classical, - 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra, -	-	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second On th 1st of February.	.
For further particnlars, address
Rev. A. LHOIONNIBR, C.S.C.
. President.
L-. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
KAINS now leave South Bend as follows
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.
“	“	12.25 p. m.
“	“	9.15 p. m.
“	“	12 35 a. m.
“	“	8.2o p. m.
“ '	“	4.35	p.m.
GOING
Leave	South Bend 4 53 p. m.
“	“	2 55 a. m. .
“	K	5.00 a. tn.
“	“	605 p m.
“	“	' 6.37 a. m.
“	“	8.20 a. m.
EAST. Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a.m
•	“	“	4 05 a. m
“	“	135 p. m
"	»	5.30 p. tn
Runs to Elkhart,
■ WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. tn *•	“	6.50	a.	tn
“	“	8.20	a.	m
“	“	9.40	p.	ta
“	“	10.30	a.	m
“	“	12.30	p.	m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
Jgg- Crains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes aster than South Bend time.	*
J. H. DEVEREUX, General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio. •
CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland	'
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J W. Cart, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S. Nelms, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchard, Freight Agent, South Bond.
NEW ALBANY CBOSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a. tn.
Freights, 6.30 a. in.; 8.06 p.m.	'
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a.m.; 9.25 p.m Freights, 1.00 a.m.: 4.48 a. in.	11. N. CANLFF, Agent.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line
®RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Lino
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. “Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Mairi Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
leave.
*9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
16:30- p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
ARRIVE.
*8:00 p.m.
*4:30 p.m
*4:30 p.m, *9:40 a.m.
*4:30 p.mi
J7:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
♦ Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Ex cent Saturday. [ Dail y. § Except -Monday. “
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louts daily, and. a Saturday Night Train.	.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
J. c. mcmullin, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO]
PJENNSTLVANiA
DOUBLE IE AOK EAILE0AD. ’
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
' Pork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m i Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	“	9.00 p. m |	“	“	11,30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a
Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUQH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, AssistantSuperiutendunt, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYER8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
• Second day.
“ The only solid joy is that which virtue brings.”