The Scholastic!
Volume VII.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE
pTUDENTS.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 24, 1874.
Number 22.
Toleration.
Toleration may be defined as a capacity for enduring or suffering something of which we do not approve—as the submission to some matter of opinion which we consider to be in opposition to, or at least out of harmony with, our own views of the same.
. Toleration may exist in regard to a variety of subjects, and in each case a different name may be applied to it; as for instance, religious or political toleration. • The word may have an extended signification. Thus, we say we tolerate an inconvenience if we suffer it to be undisturbed; we tolerate an affront if we do not avenge it, or if we pass it by unnoticed; we tolerate suffering when we endure it as a necessity or as something to which resistance would be useless.
; When we are in that passive condition in which we reconcile our minds to what is inevitable and unavoidable, we are tolerant. But if, under any source of difficulty, we are brought into a state of impatience and fretfulness,—when we do not bear it with resignation, when we resist it either by an avowed enmity or open opposition, or when we cherish hostile sentiments towards it, we are intolerant.
However, in its stricter acceptation, the word toleration refers to a matter of opinion. We distinguish a tolerant man as one who suffers others to hold opinions different from his own, without attempting to deprive them of their right or persecuting them on account of them. A tolerant man respects the opinions of others, either because he is not sufficiently certain of the truth of his own belief, and, as a necessary consequence, that those who differ from him are in the wrong, or because he observes certain conditions arrayed against his opinion which afford some room for doubt, and these, though they be not of such a character as to overturn the settled convictions which he has acquired in regard to a particular subject, have yet so much influence upon him that they produce liberal and tolerant feelings. This species of toleration results from a consciousness of human opinions, from a lack of ardent conviction in him who possesses it, or from a knowledge of the inherent weakness and illusive character of the human intellect.
But I doubt if there be any human being who will not arrive at some conclusion whenever any serious matter of consideration is presented to his mind. True, perhaps he may not reach a satisfactory conclusion, from the scantiness of materials for arriving at a just conclusion; but then he reasons from the particulars in his possession, for it is one of the properties of the human mind to reduce its knowledge to a system, to generalize it for future reflection, and thence, as from a storehouse, to evolve the creations of fancy.
Another species of toleration is that which results from the respect entertained for the person holding the contrary opinion. We naturally respect virtue and sincerity where-ever we find them; and when we meet their possessor we
are disposed to drop the spirit of aggression, to lay aside the difference of opinion which divides us, and with magnanimity of soul, to grasp the hand of friendship, and to extend to him the offices of charity and good will. And we may show this indulgence to others even when there is no higher motive than that of a personal regard for one with whom we have been intimately associated on other occasions, into whose confidence we have been admitted, or from whom we have received some favor.	-
Again—the tolerant man, actuated by motives of candor, and inspired with feelings of generosity, considers how.imperfect man is,—how liable to err,—how easily influenced, by circumstances,—how prone to evil; and therefore he tolerates the opinions and respects the prejudices of others, placing himself, as it were, under the same circumstances and surrounding himself with the peculiarities which he observes in others, whose character perhaps differs so widely from his own; and thus he obtains’ a clear insight into their character and becomes capable of viewing their errors with moderation.	’
It is but natural for us to consider it as a mark of superior enlightenment, as an evidence of a generous and liberal spirit, when we meet a person who drops his prejudices and modifies the expression of his own views to accommodate himself, as nearly as justice and discretion will permit^ to those with whom he happens to be thrown in contact. Because he yields with this disposition, and for the sake of preserving peace and concord with his associates, we should not accuse him of being vacillating and unsteady in his opinions; we should rather imagine his opinions to ba more solid and substantial, for truth does not overcome error by a blind and obstinate engagement, but by using the arts of gentle persuasion and Christian forbearance. So, on the other hand, mankind view with dislike the narrowness of prejudice. They despise its quaint and limited notions, its ignorance, its utter selfishness and disregard for the rights of humanity. It is a common observation that men of experience are generally more tolerant than those who have not had such a variety of opinions presented to their inspection, or who have not mingled so indiscriminately with all classes of human nature. There is no doubt that men are averse to changes in their social condition unless they can see some immediate benefit which, they will derive therefrom; all institutions which are associated with happy recollections of the past, around which time has thrown a venerable mantle, or which derive a sacred character from being constantly connected with lofty feelings in the mind of the individual, and whose influence has pervaded the habits and customs of society, are-not easily overthrown, nor without resistance. It is only when men view these changes from a different standpoint than that which is afforded by their imagination and feelings that they will tolerate these innovations. This will appear if we but consider how ardent has been the resistance to ’
■
no	TH E S OH O L A S TIC.
many really praiseworthy improvements; how difficult, for instance, to remove some useless and burdensome maxim of the law, or to inaugurate a new line of policy in the gov-ernment, better adapted to meet the necessities of the people.
It is the natural result of experience that with a greater knowledge of affairs, with a more profound insight into human nature, and with a greater number of examples in its prossession, it should attain more perfection in its deliberations and be more tolerant in its views. But lastly, charity and humility, as Balmes says, are the two principal sources of toleration among Christians: charity, which overlooks the imperfections of another, which forgets the differences of religion, which extends the helping hand of friendship to the unfortunate to relieve their necessities, which considers only the common tie of humanity, and that our Saviour died on the Cross for all men; humility, which is nothing else than a consciousness of the errors and imperfections of human nature: these are the strongest pillars of religion, the heavenly messengers of grace, the most shining virtues that can adorn the soul of man. And these, though virtues of so amiable a character, are by no means inconsistent with a steadfast adherence to the faith for one who possesses them, while in his conduct he treats all classes with Christian courtesy and never attempts by mere force of persuasion to drive them from their opinion or belief, at the same time cherishing those convictions which he has received from religious instruction with such an ardor and devotion that not even persecution can banish them.	E. M. S.
Dr. Brownson on “A Course of Philosophy” by Father Louage.
A Course of Philosophy ; Embracing Logic, Metaphysics, and Ethics. Designed as a Text Book for the Use of Schools. By Rev. A. Louage, C. S. C., Professor in the University of Notre Dame. Baltimore: Kelly, Piet & Co. 12mo, pp. 227. 1S73.
We think very favorably of the general design of this modest work, and regard it as much better adapted to serve as a text-book in schools which need a text-book of philosophy in English than the work of Father Hill, S. J., which we had occasion to notice some months back. It is simpler and more easily understood by the English reader ignorant of Latin and the Scholastics, while it is perhaps equally profound, and to our thinking even less objectionable. Professor Hill follows St. Thomas as usually understood by the Fathers of the Society, but not always St. Thomas as we ourselves understand him. Professor Louage though he makes no profession of being a Thomist, is probably as genuine a Thomist as is Father Hill, and besides, writes in good English which does not need in the student a knowledge of scholastic Latin to be intelligible.
. Professor Louage has evidently designed his work for pupils just entering the class of philosophy, not for the more advanced classes, though it will serve even for them under an able professor, who loves philosophy and is master of the art of teaching. Its arrangement is admirable, and its several divisions are just and scientific. The part devoted to Ethics pleases us better than that of any other text-book of philosophy that we are acquainted with; and we specially commend it. With his Logic as the art of reasoning we have no fault to find; but his Metaphysics and his def
initions, though in accordance with the system of philosophy the author adopts, do not satisfy us. We belong not to his parish. He defines philosophy to be “ the science of the supersensible.” We prefer our own definition, the. science of principles. For though principles are supersensible yet the supersensible is not always a principle. In every particular thing there is a particular supersensible, but all principles are universal.
The author’s definitions are usually brief, clear, and comprehensive, but not always accurate. “ A being or thing,” he says, “is that which exists or may exist.” But what may exist, but does not exist, is not a thing, is no-thing. The possible is simply nothing, for the power to make it a thing—res—is not in it itself. Being is that which is, and therefore is not a thing, for things are always creatures, and exist only by the creative act of being. It is always real, never simply possible; for reduce being to possibility, there is nothing to actualize it. There is and can be only one being, and all abstractions being simple nullities, that one being must be real and necessary being, that is, God, who alone can say, Sum Qui Sum. All besides being that exists is from being, created by it, dependent on it, distinguishable from it, and therefore improperly called being. Creatures are existences, but not, if we speak according to the truth of things, beings. No man with a false philosophy can give a proper definition of philosophical terms; he can give only the sense or no-sense in which he uses them.
“Existence is the real union of the parts or attributes which constitute a being.” Then what has not parts, and therefore not capable of division, has no existence! Has God parts, and is He divisible ? Are parts of a thing or existence identical with its attributes? Then unity or the indivisible is without attributes, and when we speak of the attributes of God we deny His unity, and assume that He is not essentially one, but a sum or totality made up of parts in a real union.
“Possibility is the agreement of the attributes which constitute a being, in such a way that its existence does not involve any contradiction.” Can that which neither is nor exists have attributes ? Can there be any agreement or disagreement between the attributes of nothing? The author appears not to have learned that possibility is nothing, aside from the ability of the real to produce it, as we have just shown. “The essence of a being consists of a collection of its essential or necessary attributes.” How can there be a collection of what neither is nor exists ? Is the essence of a thing made up of attributes which precede it and exist independently of it ? If not, how can the essence be a collection? The essence of a thing, as we understand it, is that by which a thing or existence is what it is. The essence of God is what He is in Himself, and indistinguishable, in re, from His Esse, as the author’s theology should teach him.
“ Science is a series of notions, deduced from principles firmly established.” Are logical deductions notions? “Science is either subjective or objective?’ We have shown, in our analysis of thought in a foregoing article, that all thought is simultaneously the resultant of the intershock of subject and object in which the object presents itself, mediately or immediately, to the subject, and as there can be no science without thought there can be no science which is not at once subjective and objective; consequently, there is and can be no purely subjective science, for the
THE SCHOLASTIC.
in
subject cannot act without the presence and concurrent activity of the object. But enough of criticism. The textbook, in the hands of a skilful professor, who is a real philosopher, may be advantageously used, for it brings up the various questions, on which professors differ, distinctly before the class.
But the chief merit of the “Course” is the part devoted to Moral Philosophy. Here we find the Catholic philosopher. The author is not engaged in a psychological inquiry into the origin of the subjective notion or feeling or moral obligation in the mind, like most modern philoso-- phers, especially English and American, but treats the question, What is the objective ground of moral obligation ? Why am I bound to do this and to refrain from that ? The heathen philosophers, who had lost the tradition of the creative act, were never able to give to this question a satisfactory answer; and most Catholics, in their moral philosophy, though not in their moral theology, assuming that all philosophy has its ground in the natural order, are able to give an answer not a whit more satisfactory. Neither nature nor reason is legislative, and therefore can impose no obligation. Reason perceives and asserts the moral obligation man is under, and its ground, but does not and cannot impose it. Moral obligation binds the will; reason can bind onl}r the intellect. “In order to impose an obligation,” says the author, p. 182, “ two wills are necessary: the one of a superior having the right to command, and the other of an inferior who is bound to obey; but the human will, considered abstractly from God, is not that of a superior, all men being naturally equal; hence the human will cannot create an obligation. The obligation must therefore come from the authority of God.” Man can rightfully command, or morally oblige, only in the respect that he holds the place of God: Non est potestas nisi a Deo. The ground of moral obligation is the right of God to command is found in His supreme and exclusive dominion, and His supreme and exclusive dominion is founded on the fact that He is our sole Creator, and has created us from nothing. Whoso, then, denies that God is, and is our Creator, can assert no moral obligation, and no moral law. The whole moral order rests on God and His creative act.
Obituary.
Died—At the Grand Central Hotel, New York City, December 18tb, 1873, Cassius M. Brelsford, of pulmonary diseaseAged 28 years.
Cassius M. Brelsford was born at Decatur, Indiana. Was educated at Notre Dame "University. Removed to Illinois a few years before the war, and in 1862 enlisted in Capt. Bridge’s company (F) of the 113th Illinois Infantry. Of rather a delicate constitution, camp-life did not agree with him, and he was detailed as clerk at Gen. Geo. H. Thomas’ headquarters, at Nashville, Tenn., where he served untill mustered out, the General and his subordinate officers giving him letters of the highest recommendation, and his office associates presenting him with many tokens of esteem. Returning to the North, he associated himself with .hisfather, Dr. Joseph Brelsford, in the drug business; afterwards, in company with Mr. V. W. Dashiell, embarked in the book and stationery business, the firm starting the the first news depot in Onarga. His interest in this establishment was purchased by Mr. Dashiell, and Mr. Brelsford moved to Willmington, Will County, where he started a
drug and stationery store. About three years ago he entered the service of the American Literary Bureau, accept-ting a subordinate position. His business qualifications soon attracted the attention of the managers, and he was promoted to the position of General Manager, with headquarters in New York. He held that position for about a year, when he was elected President, filling the office until death relieved him of his earthly cares. His associate officers in the Bureau seemed to have no envy upon his promotion over them, recognizing his ability to fill the position with which he was honored. His directorship received, the highest encomiums from all sides—the lecturers, particularly, bestowing praise upon his admirable management of their business with the public. When the disease assumed a serious aspect, telegrams were daily received from such men as Wendell Phillips, Bret Harte, and other eminent literary men, all showing great interest in his condition. During his illness, the families of his brother officers vied with each other in contributing to his comfort, and the best medical skill was employed. The disease, however had taken too strong a hold upon him, and he dfed, as stated above, on the 18th of December, cutting off a life of great promise. The remains were brought to Onarga by the bereaved father, and were interred in the cemetery on Tuesday, the 23d. The funeral took place from the Episcopal Church, and was attended by a large concourse of our citizens, who deeply sympathize with the sorrowing Relatives.—Onarga Review.
• Mr. Brelsford, of the American Literary Bureau, has just died. He was well-known to lecturers and public readers as an energetic manager of public entertainments. His frame and health, always extremely fragile, gave way at last with great suddenness.—Golden Age.
The American boy is very fond of gunpowder. There is a touch of the savage in him at his best estate. He likes to handle dangerous weapons, to make a noise, to read stories of savage beasts and savage men, of bloody encounters, and feats of daring and deviltry. Nothing distinguishes the boy-mind from the girl-mind more definitely" than its delight in the shocking details of violence. There is a good side to this; but the writers are few who see and consult it always in their narratives and writings. An act of physical courage, a gallant demonstation of prowess, an exhibition of free life out of doors, the brave meeting and conquest of difficulties on flood or field—all these may make a healthy appeal to the budding instincts of manliness in a boy. Beyond these lie the dangers in which current boy-literature is so sadly fertile. Of boys’ books there are many that never could have been written by men of conscience; and there are periodicals prepared expressly for boys, which it is a shame to write, a sin to publish and sell, and a curse to read. Comparatively few of our people know what base, criminal, dirty things are prepared by tens of thousands for American boys, and scattered and sold all over the land.—Scribner.
Galignani announces another schism in the French Protestant Church. One party of course calls itself orthodox, and brands the other party as rationalists for putting “ reason above faith.” This is certainly a funny complaint in the mouths of men who, as against the Catholic Church, assert the supremacy of reason and the right of private judgment. .	.	-
1^2
THE SCHOLASTIC,
Th® Schttlastic*
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
' ATI communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame. Indiana.
TERMS:
Oneyear......;........................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of tho publication can be obtained at the Stu-' dents’ Office.
The. Concert is indefinitely postponed.
The Orchestra numbers nineteen members.
From appearances, and the numerous applications for Catalogues, we think that a full school is insured for next Session—the panic notwithstanding.
No time will be lost between the two Sessions—one day only being granted for a short respite. Students who appreciate the value of time will be glad of this new arrangement
A gentleman from Aurora, Dlinois, writes for a Catalogue of Notre Dame, being advised to do so by our well-known and very popular old. student, Mr. J. Fox, whom he calls a noble specimen of Notre Dame. That’s so!
Our friends in Canada and New Brunswick will learn with pleasure of the safe arrival of Rev. Father O’Mahony, C.S.C., at Notre Dame. All of us here give him a hearty welcome and hope his stay will be long in the land.
Cassius M. Brelsford, whose obituary we give in another column, was a much esteemed and prominent member of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association during the years 1859-60.
The Minims, desiring not to be behind the age, took an excursion to the St. Joseph Farm last week and had a good time. We will let “Joe” give a detailed account of it. He was there himself.
As we did not see the correspondence to which our friend La-mi-re-mi La-mi-la takes exception, and as it appeared in our columns last week, we feel bound in justice to publish the rejoinder, with which we hope the affair will.end. Any further correspondence on the subject must go in as advertising matter and at advertising rates. Anything more on the subject would be mere fa-la.
Rev. Father Letourneau, C.S.C., is appointed to go to Watertown, Wisconsin, and take the place, of Rev. Father J. Lauth, C.S.C., who is called to new duties here. We regret deeply Father Letourneau’s departure. He leaves many friends here. But duty supersedes everything. No one understands that better than Father Letourneau.
On Thursday last the professed members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross celebrated the patronal feast of their worthy companion, Bro. Vincent, now the oldest professed Brother in the Congregation; The Professed House put on its best looks for the occasion and welcomed to its hospitable hall several invited guests—among others, Veiy Rev. Father General, who, some thirty-three years ago, crossed the ocean for the first time in company With good old Bro. Vincent. It is unnecessary to say that the feast prepared to celebrate the occasion was heartily enjoyed by all who took part in it, and that they wished Brother Vincent another score of years during which to be an object of edification for all.	L
A Musical Soiree
Will be given in Washington Hall, on Sunday evening, 1st of February, by the Musical Societies of the College and the students most proficient on the various instruments taught in the Musical Department. We expect a rare treat. The programme will appear in our next issue.
Examination.
We take occasion of the present issue of the Scholas-tic to furnish all necessary information in regard to the	g
approaching Examination.	t
It has been our conviction, for a long time, that the plan	. f
of examination hitherto in use, viz.: by oral questioning,	|
induced an unnecessary expenditure of time, besides being	|
a source of many inconveniences both to Professors and Students. In the first place, the object of an examination is solely to ascertain the advancement made by the student during the preceding months, and his present standing in	’
his studies. To attain this object with any degree of satis-faction, at least one half hour for each student in each branch of study would be necessary,—-in many studies a much longer time would be required, but we take one half	I
hour as the minimum average. Fixing the number of	i
students at three hundred and sixty (the average number attending examinations at Notre Dame), and the number of	:
studies pursued by each student at four (a number below the present average), we find by calculation that two hours , would be required to examine each student, or seven hundred and twenty hours to examine three hundred- and	,
sixty. Dividing this work between four Committees and	’
allowing six hours for actual labor each day, it would re-	!
quire one hundred and eighty hours, or thirty days, to com-	i
plete the work. That is, counting out the Sundays and	J
regular days of recreation, examinations would consume	J
one month and a half of each session.
This, of course, would not do, and to devote less time to this object would be to fail in its attainment. Hence, a plan of examination has been long desired by which thoroughness combined with the least possible expenditure of time might be secured. Such a plan has finally been developed by the- Rev. President, whose long experience as Director of Studies made him feel more keenly than he otherwise might the necessity of some improvement in this, respect. His plan, which will be carried into effect a few days hence, is this :
First. The Director of Studies shall draw up a list of questions to be proposed to each class, these questions to be of such a nature as to comprise the substance of the matters studied by the class for which they are designed, during the preceding five months.
Secondly. Each class shall be given two hours to answer, in writing, the questions proposed, and shall do so under the supervision of one named by the Director of Studies for that purpose.
By this arrangement it is evident that each student gets an examination not of a half hour only, blit of two hours, in each branch of study, while it places all the members of each class on an equal footing—all being required to answer the same questions, thus giving a more correct idea of their relative proficiency than could be obtained by verbal questioning. This plan also enables the Faculty to do more thoroughly in two days what would otherwise
TSE SCHOLASTIC.	m
require at least thirty days to accomplish’ satisfactorily.
Thirdly. Committees will be appointed to examine the Written answers of the members of the various classes, and assign to each his proper note of proficiency.
Fourthly. Such classes as cannot be examined in this manner will be examined by special committees previous to the general examination.
In accordance with this plan the following programme Will be followed:
SPECIAL EXAMINATIONS.
Monday, January 26th.
From 10 to 12 o’clock A. m., First Class of Beading (Senior Department).
. From 1.30 to 3.30 P. m., First Class of Reading (Junior Department).
Tuesday, January 27th.
From 10 to 12 o’clock a. m., Second Class of Reading (Senior Department).
From 1.30 to 3.30 o’clock p. m., Second Class of Reading (Junior Department).
From 430 to 6.30, p.m., Third Class of Reading (Junior Department).
COMMITTEE OF EXAMINATION:
Rev. A. Lemonnier—Chairman.
Prof. J. A. Lyons,
“ S. E. Folan,
“ J. F. Edwards,
“ M. Keeley.
The other classes will continue as' usual, during these two days, except that those who attend the Reading Classes will not be expected to attend other classes during the hours in which their examination in reading is going on.
Wednesday, January 28th.
From 8 to 10 o’clock, a.m., Specimens of Drawing will be examined by the following
COMMITTEE :
Rev. A. Lemonnier—Chairman.
“ J. Frere,	’
“ A. Louage, Bro. Albert.
GENERAL EXAMINATION.
Thursday, January 29th.
From 7.30 to 9.30, a.m., All the first-hour morning classes.
• “ 10 to 12, a.m., All the 10 o’clock morning classes.
“ 1.30 to 3.30, p.m., All the first-hour afternoon classes.
“ 4.30 to 6.30, p.m., All the 430 afternoon classes.
“ 7 to 8.30, P.M., Telegraphy (Special Committee).
Friday, January 30th.
From 7.30to 9.30, a.m., All the 8.30 morning classes.
“^0 to 12, A.M., All the 11 o’clock morning classes.
“ 1.30 to 3.30, p.m., All the 2.30, p.m., classes.
“ 4.30 to 6.30, p.m., All the 5.30, p.m., classes.
“ 7 to 8.30, p.m., Bible History.
The following Commttees will examine the work of the different classes and note the result:
I.—Languages. Including Greek, Latin, French, German, and Spanish.
Rev. A. Lemonnier—Chairman.
“ A. Louage,
“ J. Frdre,
“ F. Mignault,	■
Prof. J. A. Lyons,
“ W. Ivers,
“ M. A. J. Baasen, Mr. Acres.
n.—Scineces. Including Physical and Natural Sciences, and Mathematics from Algebra (inclusive) upward.
Rev. J. C. Carrier—Chairman.
“ Mr. J. Zahm, Prof. A. J. Stace,
“ D. A. Clarke,
“ T. O’Mahony.
HI.—English Branches. Including all the ordinary English Branches not specially pertaining to the Commercial Course.
Rev. M. B. Brown—Chairman.
“ Mr. Henrion, Mr. D. E. Hudson, Prof. T. E. Howard,
“ S. E. Folan, Bro. Benjamin, Prof. J. F. Edwards.
IV.—Commercial Branches. Including Book-keeping, Commercial Law, Penmanship, First Arithmetic (Sr. and Jr).
Prof. L. G. Tong—Chairman.
“ O. Schnurrer. • Dr. C. J. Lundy Bro. Leander.
N. B. Candidates for diplomas in the Commercial. Course will also be examined orally in all the branches included in that Course, by a special committee selected by the Rev. President. This examination will take place on Saturday morning. The object of this questioning is to ascertain with what degree of readiness the candidates can use the knowledge they have acquired.
The several committees will go into session Saturday morning, at eight o’clock, and continue till the work is completed.
For the students, Saturday will be an extra holiday, and classes will resume promptly on Monday morning, thus opening the second session of’73 and ’74.
Any changes in the classes of the session just dosing must be previously arranged with the Director of Studies.
M. B. Brown, C. S. C.,
Director of Studies.
Boll of Honor.
SENIORS.
W. Appleyard, F. Buter, J. Berry, C. Berdel, J. Brown, M. Bastarache, A. Baca, J. Brogan, W. Clarke, M. Caldwell, O. Corcoran, H. Cassidy, J. Crummey, P. Cooney, J. Christy, H. Dehner, W. Dodge, C. Dodge, E. Dunn, B. Euans, J. Egan, H. Esch; J Falvey, M. Foley, M. Fitzgerald, T. Flanagan, J. Fielding, C. Falvey, J. Faherty, J. Girard, J. Grace, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, E. Graves, H. Hayes, L. Hayes, A. Horne, E. Halpin, P. Hennessy, J. Hogan, A. Hess, C. Hess, T. Hansard, V. Hansen, R. Hutchings, J. E. Kelly, J. Kennedy, M. Keeler,. J. Lonergan, P. Lilly, T. McDonough, B. McGinniss, D. McGinnis, J. McDermott, E. McSweeney, J. McManus, M. McCullough, M. McGovern, T. Murphy, A. Mooney, S. Marks, E. Monohan, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin, P. McDonald, J. Key, J. E. O’Brien, J. M. O’Brien, M. O’Day, P. O’Meara, P. O’Mahony, P. O’Sullivan, M. Proctor, H. Pendill, F. Pendill, J. Rudge, T. Rourke, R-
174
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Staley, L. Sanders, F. Scrafford, J. Trabbic, J. Van Dusen, W. Van’t Woud, J. Ward, J. Wolfe, H. Walker, C. Walter.
■ JUNIORS.
Joseph Beegan, Philip Breen, Joseph Buchan, Charlie Campeau, John Cullen, John Dalley, Frank Ewing, John Ewing, Charles Freese, George Gross, Willie Gross. E. Grambling, Dennis Gorman, C. Gore, Bradley Hersey, Charlie Hake, M. Jeffers, John Keltj’, Charlie Lewis, B. Le Fevre, M. McCormack, John McGrath, G. McNulty, Joseph McHugh, P. Moran, Willie Meyer, Tommy Monohan, Joseph Marks, Fred Miller, L. Munson, V. Phelan, Henry Quan, John Soule, James Smith, Louis Smith, T. Solon, Harry Shephard, Frank Thalman, Edgar Wood, Joseph Kinsley, C. Wells, G. Lehman, G. Kramer, F. Ewing.
Class Honors. .
FRIDAY, JANUARY 16,1874.
Languages and Fine Arts.
Gruvin—IT. Ackhoff, V. Hansen, C. Hess. J. Golsen, F. Miller, J. McHugh, C. Otto, A. Kramer, H. F. Mathews, A. Schmidt, W. Schulthies, F. Stamm, F. Thalman, F. Wittlesberger, A. Barth, W. Ball, G. Crummey, W. Gavitt, F. Herbert, E. Kimm, A. J. Mooney, S. Marks, P. O’Meara, F. Scrafford, C. Ruger, H. Faxon, J. Marks, C. Welty, G. Burbridge, N. J. Mooney, J. Soule, C. Fuhrer, C. Stucker, J. Girard, J. D. Callery, W. Appleyard, E. McSweeney, M. Keeler, D. McGinniss, B. McGinniss, J. Egan, W. Fitzgerald, W. Ames, T. Ratigan, J. Cullen, W. Gross, E Stichtenoth, C. Walsh, G. Roulhac.
French—B. Le Fevre, L. Best, J. Minton, G. Gross, J. Borie, J. Trabbic, H. Hayes; R. Walker, J. Lambin, C. Hake, R. Bull, J. Delvecchio, B. McGinniss, J. Rofinot, G. Frauenknecht.,
Spanish—A. Horne, T. Logan, V. Baca.
Piano—J. D. Callery, W. Breen, P. Lilly, J. M. O’Brien, A. Kramer, V. Phelan, W. Ball, C. Otto, A. StichtenothjJj. Gillen, J. Rofinot, J. Hedges, G. Cunnea, G. Nestor, F. Wittlesberger, C. Stucker, F. Miller, W. Robinson, C. Hake, H. Ackhoff, D. McGinniss, J. Cainpbell, W. Appleyard, N. S. Dryfoos, W. English, H. Quan, R. Bull, A. Schmidt, H. Fearon, J. Beegan, J. Golsen, T. Gallagher, W. Gaar, T. McNamara, J. McDonough, L. Busch, W. Schulthies, J. Smith. C; O’Connor.
Violin—E. Kimm, J. E. O’Brien, A. Hess, C. Burger, J. McHugh, F. Miller, J. O’Connell, J. Lynch, W. Chapoton, T. Hunt, T. Gallagher, J. Quin, L. Smith, J. Delvecchio, F. Mathews, C. Freese, G. Roulhac.
Guitar—C. Hess, J. Bennett.
Clarionet—P. O’Brien, C. Fuhrer.
Flute—W. Ohlen.
Drawing—G. Frauenknecht, H. Zuber, J. Lynch, W. Schulthies, W. Ohlen, L. Busch, J. Cassella, A. Schmidt, W. Van’t Woud, V. Hansen, W. Appleyard, A. Barth, W. Linberger, W. Gaar, T. Culliton, F. Peril, J. Lambin, D. Glickauf, A. Koch, C. Hake, E. De Groot, F. Strong, E. GrambUng, H. Long.
-	All Around.	-
Oh, the Examination! Good time!
Students for the new session are already arriving.
There have been a couple of grand rehearsals of the Concert during the last week.
The Philopatrians, we understand, intend to give an Exhibition soon. Good! .
A number of fine marble statues have just been received from Rome.
X, Those who have occasion to go to the Infirmary are always well cared for by Sister M. of the Passion, the kind and obliging infirmarian. ...........
One of our students has just finished a translation of a-Freneh tragedy. It is good for a juvenile effort.
The Knights of the Round Table again deserve to be honorably mentioned as good laborers in the common cause. It is “ clear grit ” with them.
If a Senior wants to get “ whooped up ” all he has to do is to go into the Juniors’ play-hall on a recreation day. We’ve been there.
The pictures in the large parlor have been rearranged. We think they appear to much better advantage now than formerly.
We never like to encourage a passionate person, but we can sympathize with a “fellow” when the laundress sends him a disfigured shirt when he wanted “ the best in the box.”	 .
Society Notices.
COLUMBIAN LITERARY AND DEBATING CLUB.
Mr. Editor Although you have not heard from us for some time, I am happy to inform you that we are doing well. During the month of December the following young' gentlemen were unanimously elected to active membership: Messrs. Thomas Cashin, J. S. Gregory, R. Hutchings, J. C. McDonough, and J. McDermott; Mr. James-F. Edwards, and Thomas P. White, B. S., were unanimously elected honorary members.
The 22nd regular meeting was held on the evening of January the 14th, at which the following young gentlemen read essays and delivered declamations: viz., Messrs. T. Cashin, G. W. Crummey, T. D. Flanigen, J. S. Gregory, and J. B. Crummey. The President then gave out the debate ■ for Wednesday evening, the 28th inst., “Resolved: That Commerce is a more important source of National Prosperity than Agriculture.” Speakers on the affirmative: William Gavitt, A. Horne, and J. M. O’Brien. Negative: H. C. Cassidy, P. O’Sullivan, and J. A. Wolf.
' Our Promoter then kindly volunteered to give us a selection of an animated nature from the works of Goldsmith. He was listened to with the greatest attention, and all the members were highly pleased with the piece and ts delivery.
No other business being on hand, the meeting adjourned.
George W. Crummey, Cor. Secretary. ■
ST. CECILIA PHILOMATHEAN ASSOCIATION.
The 21st regular meeting was held Jan. 20th. At this meeting the debate, “Resolved, That Mercantile Affairs tend more to the Development of the Mind than Agriculture” was discussed. The affirmative was sustained by Masters W. Breen, C. Ruger, and B. Baca; th^jmgative was defended by Masters W. Gross, J. F. Beegan,1Mb N. Mooney. ’ The debate was carried on in a very animated manner. M. Breen’s speech was the best. The President summed up the arguments, and gave his decision accordingly, in favor of the affirmative. After this, declamatioms were delivered and compositions read by the following: H. Shephard, J. Cullen, C. Nichols, A. Schmidt, F. Sweeger, J. Marks, C. Furer, O. Tong, B. LeFevre, J. McGrath, J. Soule, W. Lawless, W._ Gross, B. Baca, L. Loser, J. Minton. Messrs. W. Ball and C. Berdel, who were invited to be present, appeared to splendid advantage in two declamations. Mr. Berdel’s “ Moor’s Revenge ” almost challenges
THE SCHOLASTIC
1T5
criticism. The President then announced the death of one of the oldest and most prominent members of the Association, Cassius M. Brelsford, who died Dec. 18th, ult., in New York city, and paid a well-deserved tribute to his memory. Mr. O’Brien, City Assessor of Chicago, was present at the exercises, and expressed himself highly delighted with the spirit and progress of the members.
J. Beegan, Cor. Sec'y.
ST. STANISLAUS PHILOPATRTAN ASSOCIATION.
The 5th 6th and 7th meetings'of this Association were held respectively, Jan. 13th, 15th and 21st. Masters H. Quan, P. Corbett, R. Downey, C. Welty, and P. Daly, after complying with the conditions, were admitted members. Declamations were then delivered by M. Kinsella, R. Downey, E. DeGroot J. McIntyre, W. Darst, P. Daly, H. Faxon, T. McNamara and T. Weisenberger.
M. Kinsella, Cor. Sec'y.
Subscriptions to the Now Tabernacle,
[continued.]
Sisters of St. Francis, Philadelphia, Penn..... Mr. Wm. Webster, St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Notre
Dame, Indiana, [2nd contribution)................ Edwin J. Hardy, Buffalo, New York................ Miss Mary Harkins, Boston, Massachusetts......... Miss Bridget Trevers, Boston, Massachusetts...... John Murrin, Schenectady, New York............... Patrick Madigan, Schenectady, New York........... The Young Ladies of the Senior Dept. St. Mary’s
Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana..................... James Carty, Portland, Wisconsin................. J: T. C., M. A. J., M. E. C., M; J. M., T. F. C., W.
J. J., H. A., San Francisco, California.......... Children of Mary, St. Mary’s School, Troy, New
York, per Sister Mary Virginia...............
Mrs. Margaret Ahern, Alexandria, Virginia........ [to be continued.]
$10.00
11.00 10’00 10:00 10.00
10.00 10.00
56.00
10.00
10.00
20-00
10.00
10-00
Editor Scholastic ;—Dear Sir—I saw with some surprise in your last issue a short “Communication” on the Choir, in which the writer, C. C. J., besides making use of Scripture text to insult, and manifesting an ungovernable disposition to dabble in a multitude of matters, whether he understands anything about them or not, does an evident injustice to the Choir, and makes allusions in a manner which I can scarcely call just, not to say “ charitable.”
Now, we all regret the loss of Prof. Girac as much as C. C. J. can do, and would rejoice, were he still living, to see him at the head of the Choir, which he conducted so ably; but we cannot coolly read such an unprovoked attack upon the Choir without giving it, at least, a denial.
I have simply to say that the Choir of Notre Dame, instead of deserving blame and abuse, deserve the highest commendation for its persevering efforts to revive the simple style of the genuine Music of the Church, so highly recommended by its pastors, and this despite the sneers and opposition of a few like your correspondent of last •week.
If this style of music offend the ears of some who ape fastidiousness to hide,—well, no matter; we cannot help it, and only regret the fact on their account.
As to “ C. C. J.” extending his right hand of approval and encouragement. (which is of no importance to the Choir) we would advise him not to d > it, lest, in stooping from his high perch of exulted ideas, he might lose his bal ance, and find his proper level.
I am, Mr. Editor, yours truly,
La-mi-re in La mi-la.
SAINT MANY’S ACADEMY
St. Mary’s Academy, Jan. 11, 1874.
ARRIVALS.
Miss M. Ives,
“ J. McDougal, “ E. McDougal, “ C. Orr,
Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Lacon, Illinois.
TABLET OF HONOR.
Misses L. Niel, A. M. Clarke, N. Gross, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, L. Black, L. Dragoo, J. Walker, M. Wicker, V. Ball, L. Dent, M. Letourneau, E. Boyce, K. Finley, A. Curtin, M. Walker, J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. T. Clarke, A. St. Clair, M. Quan, G. Phillips, R. Burke, J. Stimpson, A. Maloney, E. Sweeney, E. Bohn, M. Riley, M. Johnson, N. Foote, E. Doherty, E. Denehey, L. Pfeiffer, E. Wade, B. Wade, R. Woolman, N. Ball, F. Moore, A. Roberts, J. Bennett, M. Emmonds, A. Minton, M. Kingel, M. Barry, M. Bell, E. Ives, D. Simons, K. Casey, A. Mar-antette, J. Kreigh, E. O’Connor, R. Klar, L. Lilly, C. Miller, L. Johnson, T. Heckman, M. Cummings, S. Murrin, E. Gosse, C. Sautrup, B. Johnson, M. Ives, H. Miller, E. Mann, C. Stroether, M. Ivins, G. Haney, M. Poquette, M. Klotz, A. Garies, F. Gunzert, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, K. Patterson, J. Adams, N. Hinkston.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES.
Graduating Class—Misses Niel, Kearney, Clark, Devoto, Brown, Walker, Langdon, West, Gross, Black, Spier, Dragoo.
First Senior—Misses Kearney, Wicker, Ball, Ritchie, Dent, Letourneau, Haggerty, Locke, Boyce, Curtin.
Second Senior—Misses Walton, Fanning, Keeline, A. T. . Clarke, St. Clair, Burke,. Phillips, Stimpson, Mason, Sweeney, Bohn, M. Johnson, Foote, Denehey.
Third Senior—Misses Atwood, L. Ritchie, N. Ball, El. Wade, Woolman, Minton, M. Ewen, Moore, A. Roberts, Bennet, Emmons, McCool, Roscesco, Barry, Bell
First Preparatory—Misses Kreigh, Ross, Marantette, Hoyt, Hoover, Taylor, O’Connor, Klarr, Lilly, C. Miller, L. Johnson, Heckman, Cummins, Gosse, Sothrop, B. Johnson, M. Ives.
Second Preparatory—Misses H. Millin, McAuliffe, E. Mann, Stroether, Hatch, McKeever, Ivins, E. Taylor, Haney, Poquette, Klotz, Quill, O’Connell.
Third Preparatory—Misses Gunzert, Garies, Morgan, Irmiter, Engel, A. Sweeney, Adams, Hinkston.
Tablet of Honor in Junior Department, Jan. 16th.
Misses E. Richardson, A. Smith, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, M. Resch, M. Carlin, A, Shores, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, B. Wilson, M. Reynolds, M. Walsh, M. Brown, M. Ewing, E. Lang, M. Pritchard, L. Harrison, J. Thompsbn, M. Thompson, H. Peak, K. Morehead, M. Summers, N. O’Meara, M. Kaeseburg, A. Koch, A. Cullen, G. Hooley, D. Allen, E. Snowback, L. Walsh, B. Golsen, B. Pfeiffer, A. Goewey, M. Francis, E. Lappin, L. Germain, L. Lynch, J. Andrews, M. Ware, E. Simpson, B. Gallary, M. Hayes, I. Mann, N. Mann, A. Peak, C. Hughes, M. Hughes, J. Dee.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
First Senior Class—E. Richardson, A. Smith.
Third “	“ M. Faxon, A. Walsh.
First Preparatory—M. Resch, M. Carlin, A. Shores, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Reynolds.
Second Preparatory—M. Walsh, M. Brown, E. Lang, M. Pritchard, L. Harrison.
Third Preparatory—D. Bullen.
Junior Preoaratory Class—J. Thompson, M. Thompson, H. Peak, K. Morehead, M. Jackson, J. Brown, M. Kaes-burg.
First Junior Class—D. Allen, B. Golsen, B Pfeiffer, A. Goewey, M. Francis, E. Lappin, L. Germain, M. Ware.
Second Junior Class—M. Hayes, N. Mann, C. Hughes.
176
,THE SCHOLASTIC.
THE BEST PAPER! TRY IT!
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
BEAUTIFFULLY ILLUSTRATED.
THE SCrEXTIFIC AMERICAX now in its 29th year, enjoys the widest circulation of any weekly newspaper of the kind in the'world. A new volume commences January 3, lt74.
Its contents embrace the latest and most interestin'; information pertaining to the Industrial, Mechanical, and Scientific progress of the World; Descriptions, with beautiful engravings, of New Inventions. New Implements, New Processes, and Improved Industries of all kinds; Useful Notes, Recipes, Suggestions and advice, by Practical writers, for Workmen and Employers, in all the various arts.
The SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN is the cheapest and best illustrated weekly paper published. Every number contains from 10 to 15 original engravings of new machinery and novel inventions.	.
•	illustrating Improvements. Discover-
ies, and Important Works, pertaining to Civil and Mechanical Engineering, Milling. Mining and Metallurgy: Records of the latest progress in the Applications of Steam, Steam Engineering. Railways, Shipbuilding, Navigation, Telegraphy, Engineering, Electricity, Magnetism, Light and Heat.	■
FARMERS. Mechanics, Engineers, Inventors, Manufacturers, Chemists. Lovers of Science. Teachers. Clergymen. Lawyers, and People of all ProFs='ono. will find the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN useful to them. It should have a place in every Family, Library, Study, ano co outing Room; in every Reading Room, College. Academy, or School.
. A year's numbers contain 832 pages and Several Hukdred Engravings. Thousands of volumes are preserved for binding and reference The i tactical receipts are well worth ten times the subscription price. Terms $3 a year by mail. Discount to Clubs. Specimens sent free. May be had of all News Dialers.
TO A r 11 ijl'X'TrrtQ In connection with th<* SC1EN-± 2L1 Jit1 O. TI FIC AMERICAN, Messrs. Munn & Co. are solicitors of American and F< reign Patents,. and have the largest establishment in the world. More than fifty thousand applications have been made for patents through their agency.	-
Patents are obtained on the best terms, Models of New Inventions nd Sketches examined and advice free. All patents are published in the SCIENTIFIC AMEItlOAJV the week they issue. Send for pamphlet. 110 pages, containing laws and full directions for obtaining Patents.
Address for the Paper, or concerning Patents, MUNN & CO., 37 Park Row New York. Branch office, cor. F and 7th Sts., Washing-on. D. C.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
■ SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
"1\/JTESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS.having become managers of the Ja_L above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary's will find here all the comforts of home during their stay,
JERRY KNIGHT, 1 Captain MILLS, f Proprietors.
VAAlA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
On and aft er Sunday, November 2,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.32 A. 3t. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.30; Cleveland, 2.45 r. st.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. 3t.
1O.1O a. 3t. (No. 2), Mail, over Main and Air Lines; Arrives at Elkhart, 10.50; Toledo, 5.10 p. st.
11.58 r. st. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. sr.; Buffalo 4.05 a. sr.
9.11 p. st. (No. 6). Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. sr. _
5.10 sr. (No 52), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
7.05 A. sr. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.10; Chicago 11 a. st.
5.20 a. sr. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, 8.50 a. sr.
6.42 a. st. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7 35; Salem Crossing. 8.05: Grand Crossing, 9.37; Chicago 10.15.
5.45 p. sr. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 6.40: Chicago, 9.20 r. st.
9.10 A. sr. (No. 51), Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through Freight Trains.	-
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio. -
F. -E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.	•
J. H. PARSONS, Sup"t. Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. POWELL,- Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9 and 15; East. Nos. 2, 10 and 16. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Line points change cars at Elkhart without delay. Warsaw Express (connecting with“No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 1.40 p. at.. running through to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a. si.. and 4.05 P. 3i., running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers for Detroit must take Nos. 2, 8 or 16, as through tickets are not good via Air Line,—2 and 8 carry through coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance Tickets, R. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent, or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Depot, at theheadof Lafayette and Franklin Streets, South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. S. POWELL, Ticket Agent.
NILES = SOUTH BEND RB.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles, • -	7.00 a.m.	Arrive South Bend,	-	7 35 a.m
It	9.2) a.m.	4t	44	9.55 a.m
	5.20 p.m.	Ct	C(	5.55 p.m
	GOING NORTH.		
Leave South Bend,	- 8.20 a.m.	Arrive Niles, -	- 8.50 a.m
Ct	44	11.00 a.m.	Ct	1130 p.m
tc	Ct	6.50 p.m.	44	'	7.20 p.m
	SUNDAY TRAINS.		
Arrive South Bend,	- 10.00 a.m.	Leave South Bend,	- 10.30 a.m
4	44	6.00 p.m.	Ci	44	7.00 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
■Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run ,	■ between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
Isttrain leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* •2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	•*	9.00 p.m “	“	.	11.30 p. m*
- Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
CW RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-Q|) ison Street Bridge, as follows:
<1. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J- 5L	L’ON, AssistantSuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOLD, Jr., Gen Pass.and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
* F. R. Ml’EKS. Gen'l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.
LOUISVXUJI.E M. ALBANY & CHICAGO R.R.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:30 aan. *8:00 p.m
*9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
*9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m, 1*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
49:00 p.m. 57:15 a.m.
49:45 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and .Salem Crossing, as follows:
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Except Saturday. 1 Dail y. § Except Monday.
Pass....
Freight
’• Freight.
Pass....
GOING NORTH.
7 29 p .2.48 A. .8-57 p.
31.
31.
31
GOING S 0 NTH
Pass...........8	23
.9.21 a. m.
Freight Freight. Pass....
10 47 A .31.
............11.23	A.3I.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, . Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO. •	CHICAGO.