■ wiww-
@lje SMjctotu IJear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I. Notre Dame Dniversity, Nov. 16, 1867. No. 11.
LITERABY SOCIETIES.
Essay read Before the St. Edward’s Society.
Our intellectual powers, in proportion as they are improved, are ornamental and advantageous to our nature, and enable us to benefit our friends and society. We should therefore endeavor to cultivate them; to acquire knowledge; strengthen our memory; improve our judgment; and refine our taste. All these ends are attained in various ways; by observing whatever of importance passes in the world around us; by studying the works of nature and the elegant productions of art; by considering the value and force of events as they are recorded in history or occur in actual life, and by losing no opportunity to profit by the conversation and example of wise men. But of the many means that present themselves, there is none so profitable as literary societies, and none which deserve more attention. There is, perhaps, no part of social life that affords us more satisfaction than those hours which we pass in rational and unimpassioned debate; for the free communication of sentiment and ideas, among a number of frank young men, such as we generally meet with in literary societies, casts the mind into the most advantageous exercise, and shows the strength or weakness of its opinions with greater force of conviction than any other means we can employ. That it is not good for man to be alone is true in more than one sense. The mind, when left entirely to her own contemplations, is insensibly drawn by a sort of natural prepossession ■which generally leads her opinions to the side of her inclination. Hence it is that she contracts those peculiarities of reasoning, those little habits of thinking that so often confirm her in her fanciful errors. This fact has given rise to the common,saying, that all those wild doctrines which have been let loose upon the world owed their origin to persons -whose circumstances or dispositions have given them the fewest opportunities of canvassing their systems in the counterwarmth of free
and impartial debate, than which nothing is more likely to recover the mind from the false bent into which it may have fallen. It gives the faculties more vigorous activity; it puts us upon turning our opinions on every side, and holds them up to a light that discovers those hidden flaw^s which would have lain concealed under 'the gloom of solitary abstraction. It is upon this principle that most of the productions of antiquity are -written in the form of dialogues. Plato and Tully considered that truth could never be examined with more advantage than amidst the friendly opposition of well-regulated controversy ’ or discussion, and where can we find it better regulated than in literary societies whose primary objects are the improvement of their members in literary and historical knowledge, the acquisition of truth, the cultivation and extension of literature; in a word, the promotion of all useful and practical knowledge ? Though originating centuries before the Christian era, they did not attract attention till the revival of letters by Charlemagne, in the eighth century. When the barbarian flood submerged the Western World and rushed by the walls of Byzantium, the dismantled ship, literature, was wrecked and cast upon the inhospitable shores of infidelity and Paganism. During that long storm of violence and bloodshed, there -was but one attempt made to snatch literature and its institutions from the maelstrom of chaos and confusion, and that by Charlemagne. His imperial palace became the seat of an association for mutual improvement, in which frequent debates and animated correspondence on literary and scientific subjects were kept up; he invited learned men from all parts of the world to his court, which, like a beacon light, shone resplend-ently over the storm and wreck of that period. From that time dates the pre-eminence of literary societies; they were propagated throughout the civilized world; they became so many mines from which the genius of man was drawn out and developed in to its most luxuriant growth,—the schools in which the philosopher, statesman, his
2	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
torian and poet were educated, fostered and cherished. They inculcated a love of glory and fame; incited the youth in the path of distinction; filled his soul with a well-tempered spirit of ambition ; pointed with pride and admiration to the bright array of sages, scholars and benefactors that preceded him, and in their extensive libraries they spread before him as a banquet on which to feast, the wisdom and experience of past ages. They have been and are still, so to speak, numerous nurseries, from which have issued so many illustrious champions of literature and science, who, by their transcendant genius and masterly abilities, have drawn many devotees to the pearly shrine of wisdom. They have been and are to the present day fountains whence emanate the progress of art and sciences and the light of future generations. These assertions are verified by past experience. History, that impartial recorder of events, points to Lord Mansfield, who attributed to a literary society that multifarious knowledge which enabled him in the British House of Commons to speak with fluency on all subjects brought before that house; to Edmund Burke, one of the greatest philosophers, orators and statesmen that ever graced the annals of English history, who first received encouragement in a literary society at Trinity College, Dublin, and finally to Benjamin Franklin, who, upon writing his life, ascribed to the meetings of the junto that profound learning for which he has been justly'styled the “Philosopher, Sage and Benefactor of America,” and which has left his name next to that of Washington, to be forever engraven upon the hearts of the American people.	John Fitzhakris.
MATHEMATICS.
. Essay read before the Philodemic Society. *■ ---------------------
Mathematics hold the first place among the sciences, because they alone are founded upon infallible demonstrations; and this undoubtedly gave them their name, which is taken from the Greek word signifying science.
- Within the last few years a great change has taken place in public sentiments, as to the importance which should be given to Mathematical Studies, in comparison with other branches of education. Until recently it was thought that mere practical rules, unaccompanied by demonstrations, were abundantly sufficient for all useful applica
tions of Mathematical science; and the mind of the scholar could find richer nutriment in Horace and Homer, than in the propositions of Euclid or the sublime theories of Newton.
But it is auspicious to tlfe cause of sound learning that these opinions have given place to more rational views of education ; that we are at length convinced it is better to reason well than merely to remember; and that the value of an education is to be estimated by the abilities which it gives to the mind, of thinking profoundly and reasoning correctly.
The study of Mathematics, whether considered as introductory to other sciences, or, as a salutary and invigorating exercise of the mind, is equally worthy of attention.
The useful and important results to which it leads, the mutual dependence of its parts, and the concise and satisfactory reasoning in the development of its principles, recommend this study as well to the practical man, who learns only what he can successfully apply, as to the lover of science, who explores all its departments in search-of new facts and interesting truths.'
I shall consider in this essay only Geometry and Astronomy, which are the principal branches of Mathematical knowledge, to which I shall add some other parts, that have an essential relation to them.
The word Geometry literally signifies the art of measuring the earth.
Geometry is to be considered in two different views; either as a speculative, or a practical science. Geometry as a speculative science considers the figure and extent of bodies; according to three different dimensions, length, breadth and altitude, which form three species of extent; lines, superficies and solids. Accordingly, it compares the different lines with each other, and determines their equality or inequality. It shows also how much greater the one is than the other. It does the same in respect to superficies; for instance, it demonstrates that a triangle is half of a parallelogram of the same base and altitude. And lastly it considers bodies in the same manner ; it shows that a pyramid is a third of a prism, having an equal base and altitude. ■
Practical Geometry, founded upon the theory of speculative, is solely employed in measuring the three species of extent, lines, superficies, and solids; it teaches us, for example, how to measure the distance of two objects from each other : the hight of a tower, and the extent of land. How to divide a superficies into as many parts as
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	3
>
we please, of which the one may be twice, thrice, four times, etc., as large as the other. It not only measures different objects upon the face of the earth, but the globe of the earth itself, by determining its circumference and the length of its diameter. It goes so far as to show the distance of the moon from the earth; it even ventures to measure that of the sun and its magnitude in respect to the terrestrial globe.
Next comes that science called Astronomy, which teaches us concerning the heavenly bodies.
It is not to be doubted but this science was invented from the beginning of the world. As there is nothing more surprising than the regularity of those great luminous bodies that turn incessantly round the sun It is easy to judge that one of the first objects of the curiosity of mankind was to consider their courses and observe their periods.
But it was not curiosity alone that induced men to Astronomical speculations, necessity itself may be said to have obliged them to it; for if the seasons were not observed, which are distinguished by the motions of the sun, it would be impossible to succeed in agriculture. If the duration of the month and year was not determined, a certain order could not be established in civil affairs; nor the days allotted to the exercise of religion be fixed. Thus as neither agriculture, commerce, nor religion, could dispense with Astronomy, it is evident that mankind were obliged to apply themselves to that science from the beginning of the world.
/We are sometimes tempted to believe the time very indifferently employed, that persons of genius bestow upon abstract studies, which seem of no immediate utility, and only proper to satisfy a vain curiosity. To think in this manner is contrary to reason, because we make ourselves judges of what we neither know nor are qualified to know.
It is indeed true that all the speculations of pure Geometiy, are not immediately applied to useful things, but they either lead or relate to those that do.
Besides, a Geometrical speculation, which has at first no useful object, becomes in time to be applicable to use.
When the greatest Geometricians of the seventeenth century studied a new curve, which they called the cycloid, it was only a mere speculation, in which they solely engaged through the vanity of discovering difficult theorems. They did not so much as even pretend that they were laboring for the good of the republic.
The cycloid however was found, upon a strict inquiry into its nature, to be destined to give pendulums all possible perlection, and the measure of time the utmost exactness.
Besides the aid which every branch of Mathematics derives from Geometry, the study of this science is of infinite advantage in the uses of life.
It is always good to think and reason correctly; and it has been justly said, that there is no better practical logic than Geometry.
James Cunnea.
---------------
The Drama.
The St. Cecilia Society are preparing a new Brama, written expressly for them. The plot of the play is simple, as it turns on the recognition of a son after several years’ separation from his father. The scene is laid in Italy, in the fifteenth century. The Duke of Spoleto, indulging in one of those feuds which seem to have been the greatest luxury of the “ bold old barons” of the time, had an idea ot waging war against the Prince of Macerata, who, in case of the death of the Duke’s son, would be the legal heir to the Duke’s possessions.
The first scene of act 1st opens immediately after a battle between the troops of the Prince and those of the Duke. The Duke ffist the battle and his son; to prevent the Prince from becoming his heir, he gives out that his son was only wounded, and seizes Antonio, the son of Count Bartolo, 'whom he conveys to one of his castles, pursuades the boy that Count Bartolo, his father, knows where he is, and, in course of time, tells Antonio that the Count is dead, and that he, Antonio, must thenceforth take the name of Julio, and be his (the Duke’s) adopted son. Count Bartolo all this while is searching after his son Antonio, and convinced that his son is in the hands of the Duke, he takes sides with the Prince of Macerata.
The chances of war go against the Prince; he is forced to retire to the city of Macerata, is then killed, and Bartolo succeeds him in command. In the meantime Antonio is taken prisoner by Bartolo’s men, and cast into prison without being seen by Bartolo, who supposes the captive boy to be the Duke’s son. Hoping to check the Duke, Bartolo sent him word to retire or else his son will be put to death. The Duke, instead of withdrawing, presses forward more eagerly, thinking he can take the city and capture Bartolo before the injured father can see his captive son.
I J I 1
4	THE SCHO.L I	But Bartolo sends for Antonio, whom he takes 1 to be Julio, the Duke’s son, and, of course, when | A.ntonio appears, he is at once recognized by his father and all present. At this time the Duke 1 rushes in with his soldiers, attempts to seize An-1 tonio, and is frustrated in his design; receives a | death blow, and dies, begging pardon of Bartolo | for the injury he had done him. Grand Tableau, | and curtain drops. |	This simple little story has been exceedingly | well brought out in the various scenes; it now | depends upon the Juniors “to do well their 1 parts,” and we shall have a-grand evening enter-1 tainment some time this month. | 	 Additional List of Students of Kotre Dame. NOVEMBER 5. Milton 0. Bees,	Rochester, Indiana. NOVEMBER 9. i Joseph Farnbaker,	New York City, N. Y. :	NOVEMBER 12. i James P. Lenehan,	Mineral Point, Wis. Henry Lenehan,	“	“ Chas. H. Holmes,	Whitestown, Indiana. James Beebe,	Mendon, Michigan. NOVEMBER 13. Giotto Eddy,	Chicago, Illinois. NOVEMBER 14. Chas. Henry De Witt, Waukegan, Illinois. James Milton De Witt,	“	“ Tables of Honor. SENIOR DEPARTMENT. . R. F. Brown, James Claffey, Thomas Cunnea, Win. Falke, John Grogan, W. T. Johnson, W; ■ McGlinn, W. Spaulding, M. J. Spellman, R. M. Short and H. Wallace. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. ; John Alber, Thomas Batman, John Broderick, ‘ Ci Hildebrand, F. Ingersoll, J. Lappin, A. Murphy, : G. Morgan, A. Mitchell, J. Raggio, J. Schmeltz _■ and F. Watson. .	MINIM DEPARTMENT. John Bracken, JohnChandonai, Eddie Knight, Wallace Templeton, Oliver Tong and George Terrell.	ASTIC YEAR. CORRESPONDENCE.
	Saint Mary’s Academy, ) Nov. 14,1867. ) ARRIVALS. Nov. IQth.—Miss McMaumann, Detroit, Mich.; Nov. 11/71.—Miss Harriet Thompson, Plymouth, Indiana. Nov.	—Miss Blanche Walton, Ypsilanti; Michigan. TABLES OF HONOR. Senior Department.—Misses Miry Toomey, Gertrude Leedy, Eunice Croch, Alice Carmody, Anna Cunnea, L. Lyons, E. Ewing, K. Carpenter, Clara Ward, Amanda Sisson, K. Young and E. Lindsay. Junior Department.—Misses M. Sisson, A. Metzger, Mary Clark, M. McCarthy, Agnes Longly, and Ada Garrity. HONORABLE MENTION. Graduating Class.—Misses Mary Tripp, C. & D. Plimpton, K. Doran, H. Brooks, K. Connelly, M. Forrester, Florence Alspaugh and L. Murray. First Senior Class.—L. & L. Tong, Nora Maher, • Emma Longsdorf, K. Cunnea, K. Livingston, Anna Machin, Mary Van Patten, Genevieve Arrington, Agnes Ewing and M. Ball. Second Senior Class.—Misses S. Rooney, C. Bertrand,. Emma Carr, Mary Carraher, Susan Evans, Mary Chanteau, Rosanna Mukautz, F. -North, Virginia Brown, Mary Miller, Minerva Ryan, Frances Gittings, Anastasia Darsey and Emma Pickett. Third Senior Class.—Misses N. Ogle, R. Rettig, ' Mary McColley, M. McCarthy, Georgiana &. Sarah Blakeslee, W. Simms, E. Miller, Josephine Grieshop, Christina Thompson, Winifred Corby, Emma Conan, Sarah Miller, Frances Grant, V. Bragg, M. Shirland, L. McKenny and L., Long-well. First Intermediate Glass.—Misses T. Stapleton, Anna Tarrant, Augusta Sturgis, Mary Simms, L. Bicknell, Julia Gittings, B. Acker, Anna & Amelia Boyles.	. First Junior Class.—Misses M. O’Meara, C. North.	. ■	Second Junior Class.—A. Byrnes. Third Junior Cluss.—H. Hunt, Leo Mills. ~ COMPOSITION. A Composition, by Miss K. Livingstone, of the First Senior Glass, was read on Sunday evening at the Distribution of Points. The subject was “ Eternity.”

e

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	-	5
■wasesw—
In the Graduating Class, Miss Florence Al-spaugh is deserving of mention for a facetious article, entitled, “ Reading in the Refectory.”
In the First Senior Class Miss Genevieve Arrington wrote this week three pretty little stanzas on “ The Chimes.” They are as follows:
“ How softly doth the music of those hells, Sound to my troubled soul,
In the still midnight as it steals across the dells, Binding my senses with a sweet control.
“Ye joyful, buoyant, sounding chimes, As day by day ye ring,
Ye speak to me of other happy times, And I bless ye for the anthem that ye sing.
“ Ye remind me of an ever blissful hour,
When baptism cleaned my soul from sin ;
Made me eternal heiress to a dower
Which all my life long I shall strive to win.”
In the Second Senior Class Miss Iola Conway is worthy of mention in her theme, “ The mysteries of a School-Girl’s Pocket.”
In the Third Senior Class Miss Rena Rettig wrote well on “ Good Points."
In the Intermediate Classes, Miss Alice Dunlap, on “ The Flowers,” and L. Neil on “ The little Child who got lost,” show much ingenuity and diligence.
AMBITION.
Ambition is the spur that goads thousands on to perform great actions. Properly directed, it is a benefit to the possessor, but often the wished for goal is quite unworthy the effort expended to reach it, and of the mind which entertains the ambition. The natural love of admiration, of praise, and of superiority over others, inherent in the human breast, impels men to perform actions which, without these incentive, they would shrink from, as impossible. The student labors to master some difficult problem in mathematics, or, some intricate sentence in an almost-forgotten language, partly, it is true, to satisfy his own curiosity, but chiefly for the commendation he expects to receive from his teachers and friends.
Many struggle against the censure and ridicule of the whole world, to gratify their ambition by inventions, which, however scouted at at first, are destined eventually to extort the universal gratitude of mankind. This may bo justly termed a laudable ambition, or rather a commendable spirit of emulation which cannot be too much admired, or encouraged.
We have ah example in Robert Pulton who applied the use of steam to navigation. lie toiled on along while every one was ridiculing the “ vagaries of his heated imagination,” until at last his boat was ready for trial. Thousands gathered to witness the test; and when the “ first steamer” moved slowly up the Hudson in obedience to the power he had discovered, Robert Fulton received a passing reward, it is true, in the triumph of his intellect over the obstacles placed in his pathway, yet, to him it may well be said,
“ Man gave thee no laurels, man gave thee no gold;
By thy coffin, no dirges melodious rolled, For martyrs must brighten the earth,” but-to-day when we behold railway trains, steam boats and manufactories, all employing the subtle agency whose wonderful
energy was made subservient to the will of man by his genius, we feel how great the debt we owe to Robert Fulton.
t: Great poet in action, unshrinking and brave, Thou hast uttered thine Iliad in steam on the wave, And the song shall be caught by the deep.
Behold the leviathan ships, bearing home
The full wealth of all climes, o'er the white heaving foam;
Thou hast winged them with lightning, and fearless they roam ■Where the storms of the Equinox sweep,”
And to further quote from the same stirring poem, how proudly can we rejoice in the fulfillment of the prophesy :
‘ Each city that stands in the land of the free, Shall appe.tr as a monument soaring to thee; And science shall cherish thy fame.
When the lightnings shall leap from the skies to the wire, When the iron roads shake, beneath horses of fire, Then to thee, pioneer, shall the world sound a lyre;
And Continents echo thy name.”
When considering the achievements of men like Fulton, when we reflect upon their histories, and the strong prejudices and difficulties they were obliged to surmount, we feel there is something more than ambition that impels them, a secret inspiration by which they were carried forward, and we must believe they were destined by Providence to disclose the secrets of ages to the admiration and gratitude of the world.
True, in many instances, their ambitions and hopes were too exalted to be completely realized, yet their struggles accom-. plished much, and made them happy benefactors of the human race. Men like Columbus, Franklin, Morse, sought not for paltry human wealth or glory. They encountered every obstacle to overcome. Their object was to advance enlightenment, and they thus forgot every thing in this absorbing thought.
The popular ambition of the present day unfortunately seems to be money making. The man is valued in proportion-to the number of thousands he possesses. Money has been styled the “ god of Americans.” We hope this may be cast back as a slander, yet we too often see talent genius, moral worth, aU else, subservient to the all powerful “green-backs.” The spirit of noble emulation which should actuate the young, is something far superior to the selfish ambition too frequently stimulating the efforts of those who ascend the bights of fame; and it is incumbent upon each one who desires a sound education, to cultivate the former, and to discourage the latter.	J. S.
St. Mart’s Academy.
THE PERFECTION OF ART IS TO CONCEAL ART.
The highest perfection of Art is, undoubtedly, the nicest imitation of nature, or the most complete and consistent representation of ideal forms.
That painter who makes us forget his skill in our admiration of his instinctive, or rather intuitive, truth to nature, is really the most skillful; nor must his imitations of necessity be of the most glowing or striking points in a landscape, or features of a face, though to omit them would be absurd, for they belong to nature as well as the more delicate, and less remarkable, but the most successful painter is he who is able to present the most faithful copy of simple, ordinary subjects, those which appeal to the universal sympathies of mankind. It is not he who, in throwing together the colors of the rainbow, produces a gorgeous effect, and dazzles the beholder by mere brilliancy, without regard to fidelity in portraying the more minute and interesting points. Real Art consists in the accurate representation of objects with which wo meet every day, and of the power to invest them with a fresh interest.
There are many who can give a good outline of what is striking or unusual in itself, but few can depict with fidelity our familiar surroundings, so that they seem no longer common place, but really worthy of consideration. This latter power constitutes Art, and is possessed in a distinguished degree only by superior rtists.
6	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
The highest perfection in literary composition is likewise the capacity most perfectly to delineate events as they really transpire, or thoughts as they unfold in logical sequence, so that the reader may naturally follow the same intellectual process as the writer, the description, or the train of thought presented to the mind being so vividly set forth, that a correct idea of the author’s conception is at once imparted.
The true author imbues his style with a sincerity and force which calls out a response to his own emotions, impressions or convictions, and they are acknowledged as significant by the reader, and this is achieved without affectation, appearance of exertion or strain upon the mental powers.
The true author, the true artist, is impelled by an internal force, and artificial means are so completely subordinate that the work of pen or pencil seem quite forgotten in the interior impulse which guides them. The work appears self-evolved because so spontaneous and so perfect.	-
The resulrs of either mechanical or intellectual operations, we observe, are faultless in proportion to their simplicity.
It is the same as we proceed a step further, and consult our moral relations. “ An honest man is the noblest work of God,” hence greatness consists in moral simplicity or sincerity, for we take honesty in a broad sense and understand that he alone who fulfills to the utmost the designs the Almighty had in creating him, is worthy of an enviable title of “ honest man.” To the youth this interpretation inculcates the highest cultivation of his highest faculties, the talents confided to his charge at his birth, and for which he will finally be answerable it the Divine Tribunal. Neglect of this culture is the excess of dishonesty, because it thwarts the will of God, who has condescended to accept our co-operation in His work.
IVere it but possible by any art to make our lives resemble in completeness the grace and symmetry of a little flower, we should esteem it a great advantage, but a higher standard of excellence has been bestowed upon us because we are endowed with intelligence, and the means of increasing and elevating this wonderful mental power. We conclude, then, that to be actual artists in our humble way, we must zealously apply ourselves to the labor above indicated, and perform it with the simple purpose to fulfill the design of our creation.	M. T.
Sr. Mart’s Academy.	_
St. Joseph’s Academy, 1 South Bend, Nov. 14,1867.	(
The following are the names of the pupils deserving of mention in the several classes:
Second Senior.—Misses S. Baker, R. Johnson, E. Whitmore, S..Rush, F. Weaver and C. Peffer.
Third Senior.—C. Coquillard, M. Turner and N. Chalfant.
First Intermediate.—EL Talbot, N. Merritt, A. Massey and A. Wheeler.
Second Intermediate.—Jennie Staples, K. Louey, EL Knoblock and A. Treanor.
First Junior.—C. Bunham, M. Tuey, K Fradish and L. Dice.
Second Junior.—A. Sack, E. Klingle, E. Fagley, M. McCarthy and N. Curren.
Third Junior.—K Myers, I. Wheeler, J. Myers and I. Weaver.
Minim Department.—A. Elbut and C. Myers.
Entrances since November 11.—J. Meagher, M. Meagher, M. Measel, M. Clancy, N. Hacket and M. Martin.
We have received from the Academy of the Assumption, the following solution of the Geographical Enigma in The Scholastic Yeab, November 9th, 1867:
I Avas awakened one morning by a Shanghai, which was perched on a fence under my window. From an adjoining room I beard a Man, (Isle of Man), and I called a Negro to make a lire, as I felt Ghili.
On going down stairs, I found that one of the Slates had spilled Greece on my highly prized Brussels while putting on the table my breakfast, consisting of a Turkey seasoned with Cay-■ enne, also a Cod, a cup of Java (Coffee,) a bottle of Bordeaux (wine), stopped with a Cork, and a basket containing an Orange and other fruits. I paid a Guinea for my breakfast, and then asked one of the Cooks for some sugar to feed a Canary that v»’as hanging in my chamber. --------------------------------
St. Edward's.
At the regular session of the St. Edward’s Society, the following essays were read: Sabbath and its Religious observance, by Mr. J. Rogers, w’as well written, in which he portrayed in strong and forcible figures, the immoral tendencies of the present generation, compared with those of former ones. Pleasures of Memory, by Mr. F. Guthrie, was very good, bringing to mind those happy scenes of childhood and innocence upon which all love to dwell; the noble ideas which he presents, and the beautiful and terse language in which he clothes them, stamps Mr. Guthrie as a writer of no ordinary talent. Ireland, by Mr. T. O’Mahony, may be set down as a fine production, and showed that the writer was well conversant with the ancient history of that “ Lovely Isle,” while the earnest manner in which he read it, clearly demonstrated that his heart reached those sentiments which his pen had expressed. American Civilization, by Mr. James McCormick, was good and evinces care and attention on his part. Science, by Mr. James McBride, was excellent, and happily chosen; the manner in which he handled his subject, and the splendid metaphors that he used, convinced all that he was thoroughly conversant with it. The Attorneys, Witnesses, et ceteri, having been appointed for the next “ MockCourt,” the association adjourned, evidently well satisfied with themselves and the world at large, and certainly with more enlarged views on the Sabbath, Memory, Ireland, Civilization and Science.
t	J- F. H.

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	7
Philodemic.
A meeting of this Society was held. Nov. 12th., for the purpose of reading essays and delivering declamations. Mr. Nelson first read an essay which produced quite an agreeable surprise. Mr. Cunnea also read, an essay, which was pronounced the best ever yet read before the Society. His subject was “Mathematics.”
Messrs. Moore and. Walker then delivered declamations, which were received with applause.
These being all the regular essays and declamations, volunteers were called for. Messrs. Moore,. Murphy and Thomas, then successively came forward, and their addresses were received with loud and continued applause. -J. C. D.
Composition Class.
So far, this class, for one that began the study of English Composition,- but two months ago, has done remarkably well. We have often felt disposed, on listening to the reading of some of their compositions, to present them to the critical inspection . of the readers of The Scholastic Year ; but, reflecting that premature praise has often done more harm than good, we have forborne to publish any of their compositions, until we are satisfied that it would be an injustice' to withhold them any longer.
The exercises consist of compositions and recitations. The following young gentlemen have written the best compositions :
Arthur Murphy, J. D. McCormick, Thomas O’Mahoney, William Waldo, A. J. Dornan, S. L. Moore, R. H. McCarthy, Benton H. Thomas and R. M. Short. Their recitations have also been excellent ; as have also been those of J. H. LeCompte, Jerome Campbell, John Nohe, John Flanagan, John Skelly and M. C. Peterson.
Our readers will no doubt look with interest ■ for the forthcoming compositions of this promising class.
Impromptu,
("Written after a three weeks’ wretched attempt to play on the organ. The writer embodies the burden of his thoughts at the time, and hopes he is in no wise irreverent—which God forefend—■ in wishing to slip into heaven, as it were, by the back-door and in the humble position of organ blower. Such a situation would satisfy all his ambition. St. Cecilia is the patroness of organists.)
Both harps and lyres The Angels’ Choirs Attune to words of love:	•
But we don’t know
If they do blow
Wind instruments above.
But if they do, Cecilia, too, To-day the organ’s playing;— While here below Our lungs we blow
In festive voices praying.
O, may her shield Protection yield Her shadow fall And save from all	.
Of which we have a horror I
My fervent prayer; —
Would I were there
To blow the bellows for her.
-------
Fifth. Grammar (Junior.)
Me. Editor: Last Tuesday we witnessed another very spirited contest between the Etymological soldies of the Excelsior and Washington divisions of this class. This battle was conducted with more energy and better discipline than the former, both parties showing more signs of improvement at each succeeding conflict.
We have to report the Washingtons under the leadership of James E. Lewis as the successful competitors this week, although they had a very hard time indeed before they could gain any decided advantage over the strong Excelsiors, who never doubted for a moment that they would be defeated or even injured in the least; but when once the Washingtons had completely routed them in a skirmish, they had no more hope of victory. In the retreat some of the Excelsiors were instantly killed—seven of them being knocked lifeless at one blow from the little leader of the Washingtons—the others were all more or less injured—in a word they were badly whipped and they deserved it, for, they were too secure in their former victories. We do not wish to say that they were entirely heedless during the battle, for they fought well, but could have done better. The Captain, George M. Warren, especially deserves great praise for the interest he took in trying to preserve the honor of his side. The next time, the Excelsiors will know what an enemy they have to contend with, and no doubt they will go to work as soon as possible and rebuild their shattered ramparts on a stronger foundation.
The names of those in the Washington division, who returned safe from the conflict are. James E. Lewis, A. Trentman, George Malin, Charles Sage, James Farrell, George Rockstroth, George Ruger and John Kranth. Those of the Excelsiors: George M. Warren, Andrew Mitchel and Louis Card. The next time the battle will prove of more interest, on account of the defeat of such a powerful army as the Excelsiors; who intend to revenge such a shameful reverse.	_ ,.
-------------- ISs ’
Academy of the Assumption, Lowell, Indiana, The following deserve honorable mention: Senior Class.—Misses- Julia Coquillard, Lowell
Turnock and Mary J. Deitz.
Junior Class.—Misses Clara Kingel, Mary J. Donohoe and Clara Weston.	.

8	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
BASE BALL.
The members of the Two Penny Club are not noted for their physical strength and muscular development; they are not aspirants to the honor of being classed among expert gymnasts. They admire the shape of a ball, and love to see it flying through the air—when at a respectable distance—but they also think that the baseness of a base ball in many cases is too apparent. For when the members of this club are walking quietly along, and tranquilly discussing some abstruse question, it tends to -mitigate their enthusiasm on the subject, to have the ball pass in too close proximity to their well-developed(?) heads—which, at least, are likely to be developed if the proprietors of said heads chance to go imprudently within one hundred yards of the lovers of this national game.
Once the President of the Two Penny Club, in a fit of enthusiasm, (which lasted about half an hour,) took for his motto : “ Exercise of the brain, and exercise of the body.” The infatuated gentleman, going from one extreme to the other, determined to exercise the body without exercising the brain, as he had been so long exercising the brain without -exercising the body; he thereupon requested an old player of the game to engage in the little amusement of “ catch.” The base ball player, nothing loth, accepted the invitation, and, with malice aforethought, deliberately took the required distance, and scientifically threw the beautiful round ball to the honorable President, who boldly held his arms out stiff, resolved, in his heart of hearts, to stop and hold said ball—or die in the attempt. The ball came inconceivablv swift—the President of the Two Penny Club, “ O, where was lie ?"—(Casabianca.) In a paroxysm of pain and fright—the idea!—he, our venerable President, was going through a most elaborately intricate terpsichorean effort on one leg, furiously blowing, the while, on his hot finger ends, while the innocent little base ball peacably reposed some distance behind him.	'
It needs excite no wonder that the game of Base Ball is not looked upon with favorable eyes ' by the	Two Penny Club.
No. 13 Broad Avenue,	(
Commercial Row.	\
After urgent and repeated solicitations by those interested in mercantile pursuits and the cause of commercial education, I have resolved, with your permission, to occupy a small space of your valuable journal each week, in complying
with their request, and furnish such items as pertain to business; prefacing this week with a remark upon the Commercial Department. Its organization is coeval with the founding of the University, and after struggling along with it through the difficulties and embarrassments consequent upon the permanent establishment of such an institution, became in a short time, not only one of the principal departments, but a commercial college per se. Its success is mainly owing to the indefatigable exertions of Rev. P. Dillon, familiarly known as Father Patrick, a man of rare business qualifications and most extraordinary executive abilty; whose broad plans and practical adaptation of them to the requirements of the student reduced the system of commercial instruction to the inductive method— which has since succeeded to a degree of perfection as not only to surpass the counting-house system, but outrival the commercial colleges of the country. Under him the department reached its acme, and now sends forth young men, prepared by a thorough course of commercial studies, comprising Book-keeping, Commercial Law, Commercial Arithmetic and Business Penmanship, for the practical duties of life.
This year, the department opened with its accustomed alacrity, and judging from the progress the young men have made so far, I can safely promise that next June will witness an increased awarding of diplomas. Honorable mention from the various classes may be made of the following viz: in Theory; T. O’Mahony, .W. O’Donnell, H. B. Keeler, W. McWhirt, H. C. Boardman, S. Beswick, D. Wile, R. A. Brown, J. Gibbons, F. Crapser, J. W. Watts, James Claffy and C. Clark. In Execution; A. O’Reilly, J. Moon, H. Sanders, N. S. Wood, R. S. Akin, F. Jennings, J. Reitz and W Botto. In Proficiency; J. Winterbotham, J. Nolle, H. B. Moody, C. E. Sage, W. Stace, J. W. Coppen-ger, E. Callahan, D. Maley and D. M. Kelley.
-----
Second Grammar Class, Senior.
The Shakesperians and Miltonians had a severe mental tussle last Saturday (Nov. 2.) resulting in the loss of three men on each side which left it a drawn battle. The warriors thus put hors de combat, are recruiting their shattered nerves, with a view- to a renewed engagement. The Junior members of the class, Messrs. J. Staley and C. Mott, had the responsible position of the captaincy of each division on the above mentioned occasion.