t
The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
pTUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victm-iis; vive quasi eras moriturus.

Volume VIII,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY, 29, 1875,
Number 36.
JNu. H k GERTY, City Judge.
L. G. TONG, Notary Public.
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
i
■4 fl 23
ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW, REAL ESTATE’and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 OddJFellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
"	o24-ly
118 MICHIGAN St.,
- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
HEADQUARTERS FOB
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc.,
o2i-tr
Before going elsewhere, go to
S. PECKS,
Dealer in
1
i
&
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA,
ALL SORTS GF
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Eto —ALSO—
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc.
• o24-tf
jt
5
&

£) J- HOLLAND, & Co.,
’	Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS, .
—ALSO—	*
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
A. J. STAGE,	'
* COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments o
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
^“Orders expeditiously attended to.
Office with M. Stover, Room 33, over Wills & Sterns Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
1OO MICHIGAN St.
SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
nov28-%tf.
E. CUMMINS)

DENTIST

Ho. 96 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
jy^RS. C. S. STOVER,
MILLINER,
129 Michigan Street, South [Bend, Indiana.]
DEALER IN
Millinery Goods, Hats, 'Bonnets, Laces, &c.-
(Over Wyman’s.)
o24-3m
^^”The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	ap!17
Jte
Do you want a drive ? Go to JgEN COQUILLARD’S
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South. Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
fZLEORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR, AND general dealer in Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings. No. Ill MICHIGAN STBEET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. . (Up Staiis.)	% o24-tf


THE
BOND HOUSE
Niles, ----- Michigan.
McKAY, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains,, for guests of the house.
• nov 28-% tf.
The Students’ Office!
Wholesale and Ketail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc. No. 54 Washington St.,
ap!24
530
SCHOLASTIC
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
SPETH,
Corner AVasliin&ton and Michigan Sts., [Under Coonley’s Drug Store] SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
'	my-22
hplttltok: shiokey,
.	PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BPS LINE!
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St, Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
.A-ttaclied to the National Hotel,
Adjacent to the Michigan Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made between Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Depot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
my!5-tf.
Michigan Central Railroad.
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1874.
Going East.
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit
Mail -	-	-	5 00 a ia -	9 02 am	5 45 pm
Day Express -	- 8 30 a m	11 47 a m	6 30pm
Accommodation - 3 35pm	7 35 pm	8 45am
Atlantic Exuress - 5 15 p m	855 p m	3 50 am
Night Express - -9 pm	12 45 pm	8 00 am
Going	West.	
Trains.	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	.	-	7 00 am	4 05pm	8 05pm
Day-Express -	- 10 20 a m	5 20pm	9 00 pm
Accommodation -	150 p m	6 30am	10 35 a m
Evening Express - 5 40 p m	2 30 am	630am
Pacific Express - - 10 00 p m	- 5 00am	8 30 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 p m, 6 30 p m, *9 a m, *7 pm.
Arrive at Niles—S 45 am, 3 55pm, 710 pm *9 40 am,*740 pm.
Leave Niles—6 30 am, 9 20 am, 510 pm, *8 am, 15 pm.
‘ Arrive at South Bend—715 a m, 10 a m, 5 55p m, + 840 a m, 1-540 p m
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Going East, -via Wiles.
Depart—807 am, 6 38 pm,+ 9 07 am, +7 07 pm.
Arrive—7 07 am, 9 42 am, 546 pm, +832 am, +5 32pm
Going West, -via Wiles.
Depart—310 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m.
Trains marked thus ♦ + run Sunday only.
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Chicago, Ill G. L. ELLIOTT, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind. B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H‘ C. WENTWORTH,	W.B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent,
Chicago.	Chicago
CLOTHING- HOUSE.
MEYER LIVINGSTON, 60 "Washington Street, [Three Doors West of Blum’s Cigar Store] SOUTH SHHSTJD, TJSTffDTA JST A B^’Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give nim a Call.	a!7
A. KLINGEL & SONS, 69 Washington Street, SOUTH SEDSTTD,
Keep constantly on hand a complete assortment of
MEN’S AND BOYS’ FINE BOOTS AND SHOES.
OF THE
Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and Bracket & Boyden’
Hand and Machine Sewed Goods.
THE
LARGEST STOCK IN THE CITY.
Give us a Call and See the Nobby Styles.
LADIES, We would call yonr attention to onr immense stock of FINE
SHOES of all the.standard makes.	al"
. L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 A. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. it. ; Buffalo, 8.55 p. ar.
10.12 a. ai. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. ai.; Cleveland, 9.50
11.57 a. ai. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. ar.; Buffalo 4.20 a. ar.
9.11 p. at. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. ar.
8.00 p. ar. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a. ar„ Cleveland 7.05 a. at., Buffalo 1’10 p. ar.
5.44 p. at. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.18 A. at. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. at.
5.24 a. ar. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago, 8.30 a. at.
6.31 p. ar. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10. p. ar.
5.44 r. at. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte’ 6.35; Chicago, 9.
8.00 A- at. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 A. m , Chicago 11.10.
9.15 A. at. [No. 71] Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
Chicago, Iiocl< island, and. Pacific K. It.
Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, Grand Pacific Hotel.
Trains.	heave.	arrive.
maha, Leavenworth and
Atchison Express,	10.13 a m	3.30 p m
Peru Accommodation, 5.00 p m.	9.30 a m
Night Express1	• 10.30 pm	6.15 am
The Scholastic.
pEYOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
JJisce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY, 29, 1875.	Number 36.
I
f j
'	Stanzas.
[By one who has long been a stranger to the elegancies as well as the conveniences of civilized society, and who has -narrowly escaped death by drowning on three distinct and several occasions.]	'
Ox Generalities. .
Written by express order of the Editor.
Air: “Yankee Doodle.”
i.
When butchers lift their knives to lay .
Some unoffending pig low,	'
Far, far less truculent are they
Than the Editor of the valuable paper in whose justly appreciated columns I have the honor to appear.;
ir.
He stoops to rack a wretch’s brain, .	And from it wring wild notions—
Ideas that reason can’t restrain,
Nor forty hours of strict application to the duties of the arduous position to which he has been called by the almost unanimous voice of the intelligent voters of the County.
in.
On these ideas he puts the yoke Of rhyme, with metre’s bridle, Then bids the wretch his Muse invoke, And spurs him on when lassitude or fatigue overcome him to such a degree as to render labor of any kind absolutely intoler able. ’	'
TV.
Oh I why should poems be written now ?
Oh! why do people need them,
When there’s so many written ? How
Can anybody read one half the trash that we find in the ephemeral literary publications of the day; and if they could, what good would it do them ?
v.
- This, and some other questions lie Within my bosom rankling;
Were I a spirit medium, I
Would ask old Dr. Benjamin F., the immortal discoverer of ightning-rods and the Declaration of Independence.
VI.
A secret oath to Christian men Should ever be a stranger, . But what can be expected when One’s pastor is (nominally at least) a member of the most prominent secret society of the period 2
VII.
“Relifjionem colo” let
• Pretenders say to screen ’em, Butl’ve a better motto yet
For mine is “ Colo vinum.' ’
Alchemy and. the Alchemists.
VI.—Modern Scientific Paradoxes.
But what says modern science in regard, to the making gold by analysis or transmutation? Not many years ago the possibility of doing such a thing was, by those considered competent to judge, universally denied. But this is no longer the case. Few scientists could now be found who would assert positively that it is impossible; and not a few maintain that the day is not far distant when chemistry will add gold-making to that long list of scarcely less marvellous discoveries with which she has enriched the world since the time of Priestly and Lavoisier. Indeed, Girtanner of Gbthingen predicted “that in the nineteenth century the transmutation of metals would be generally known and practiced. Every chemist and artist will make gold which will contribute more than anything else to prolong life, poisoned at present by the oxides of copper, lead and iron, which we daily follow with our food.” Davy, the illustrious analyst of the alkalies and alkaline earths, considered transmutation as quite possible; and many of the most eminent scientists of the day are of the same opinion. Their reasons for so thinking we will now briefly consider.
One of the strongest arguments in support of their view js deduced from considerations on the elementary constitution of matter. The alchemists acknowledged only two elements, sulphur and mercury, to which subsequently they added a third—“ saltthe ancient Greeks, generally four: earth, fire, air and water. Some of the later alchemists, following the early Greek philosophers, maintained that there is only one elementary form of matter—“an essence or quintessence ”—from which all others are derived. Subsequent investigations, however, proved that three of the four forms of matter regarded by the Greeks as simple elements—viz.: earth, air and water, are compound substances, and that the fourth, fire, is no substance at alL After the introduction of chemistry proper in the latter part of the 17th century, and particularly after the great discoveries of Lavoisier, Scheele, Priestly and others towards the close of the 18 th century, the various previously existing theories concerning the constitution of matter were entirely revolutionized, and the list of the elementary forms of matter greatly enlarged. Scion afterwards the invention of the Voltaic battery supplied a new and powerful instrument of analysis, and substances regarded by Lavoisier, Priestly and other great chemists of the same age as simple, proved in the hands of the immortal Davy to be compounds. Since his time the number of elements has been gradually increasing. In 1843, fifty-four sub stances were classed as elementary. Soon after, other-
532
THE SCHOLASTIC

were discovered. Later on, the spectroscope—an instrument stillmore delicate * than the Voltaic battery—came to the chemist’s aid. By its means Bunsen in 1860 discovered the two metals rubidium and caesium, and Crooks a year later obtained thallium—elements so rare and found in such small quantities that their existence would in all probability have never been suspected had it not been for the spectroscope. Chemists now recognize 63, some 65, elementary forms of matter, and the probabilities are that the number will be still further increased, either by the discovery of other entirely new substances, or by the decomposition of some of those now considered simple. For it must be borne in mind that the term “ element,” as now used, is entirely arbitrary, signifying not an absolutely indecomposable body, but merely one which has hitherto resisted all attempts of ulterior analysis. Thus water was for ages regarded as a simple element, and it was not until 1773 that its compound nature was demonstrated by Lavoisier. So likewise, many other substances supposed to be of an elementary character, may hereafter, by other methods of analysis or by more powerful instruments, of decomposition, be shown to be compounds. Recognizing this fact, it is quite possible that gold, silver and other bodies now. classed as elements may be discovered to be compounded of two or more simpler forms of matter, and if so, it is evident that it •will only be a question of analysis and synthesis with chemists to finally realize, at least as far as the art of making gold is concerned, all the bright dreams of the alchemists of yore.
In illustration of what I have been saying, suppose that hereafter gold shall have been discovered to consist of two elements, which, for the sake of simplicity, we will call A and B. Suppose also that copper and mercury, or any other two bodies, shall have been found to be composed respectively of the elements A and C, and B and D. It is quite clear in this case, that all that will be necessary in order to obtain gold from mercury and copper, or any two substances containing the elements of gold, will be to cause, by some means or other, a reaction by which we shall have as a product, A B and C D, one term A B of which product will be gold, the second, C D, some other substance, entirely different from any of the factors entering into the equation. Thus you see that the making of gold from substances which are not gold—the transmutation of the baser metals, to use the phraseology of the alchemists, is, at least, theoretically speaking, not a thing impossible; but you will ask, is it probable ? Science as yet gives very little encouragement, if any; for, as you see from what has just been said, all depends, if effected by any process of analysis and synthesis, on the ulterior decomposition of bodies, now regarded as simple, which are, after all, only possibly compound.	•
But other, and probably more weighty reasons are adduced in favor of the possibility of making gold, not by any metathetical reaction as above, but by a process of veritable transmutation. Certain substances, as is well known, are capable of existing in several different states or conditions, called by chemists allotropic states, in which while the fundamental chemical identity of the substance remains unchanged, its properties are entirely dissimilar.
* It is capable of detecting the 1-lSOOOOOOOth part of a grain of Sodium, the l-6000000th part of a grain of Lithium, the 1-lOOOOOOth part of a grain of Strontium, or the l-600000th part of a grain of Calcium.
No one, for instance, judging from physical and external properties, would ever suppose that the diamond is only a peculiar form of charcoal. Nevertheless, such is the case, and to have experimental demonstration of the fact it is only necessary to put a diamond between the terminals of a moderately powerful galvanic battery, when the precious and lustrous body will be changed into a mass resembling the coke obtained by the combustion of bituminous coal. But what is more remarkable, it is said that AI. Despretz, the celebrated French physicist, has actually succeeded in changing carbon into diamond. He fastened a small piece of sugar, a substance rich in pure carbon, to the lower positive pole of the electric egg, and after allowing the induced current of a Ruhmkorf coil to act on it for several months, he found that the upper ball of the egg was covered with a fine black powder, together with small ciystals which upon examination were discovered to possess all the characteristic attributes of the diamond. Besides carbon there are other substances whose allotropic modifications are scarcely less striking. Phosphorus, for instance, like carbon, exists in three different states, known as the white, red and black varieties of phosphorus, and in these various states its properties are entirely unlike. The white variety is a violent poison, easily combustible, and readily dissolved in ether, alcohol, carbon di-sulphide and many of the volatile and fixed oils; while the red variety, on the contrary, is a perfectly harmless substance, combustible only at a comparatively high temperature, and insoluble in any of the menstrua enumerated above.


' TBs-.
The properties of the black variety, as differing from ®
those of the white, are equally remarkable. Oxygen, sul-pher, chlorine, as well as a few other bodies, also furnish striking illustrations of allotropism, but it would be too long to enter into a detailed account of these substances and of the entirely different qualities which they severally assume in their various allotropic conditions.
. Thus far only a few of the so-called elements have been found to exist in different allotropic states, but many scientists contend that all of them, under proper conditions, would be capable of manifesting like modifications. If so, may not gold, as we now know it, be discovered to be only an allotropic form of some of the baser metals, from which it may hereafter be prepared as easily as black sulphur is from the ordinary yellow variety, or ozone from oxygen There would not, surely, be a greater difference between gold and any of the metals, supposing some of them to be altropic modifications of gold, than there is between the diamond and charcoal, or between the allotropic states of the various elements above mentioned.
This idea that many of the bodies now classed as elementary are in reality only modified forms of one and the same substance receives additional support from considerations taken from the similarity of the compounds formed by several of the elements, the atomic weights of the latter, their combining equivalence, etc. Take for instance the two metals nickel and cobalt. They have the same atomic weights—viz.: 58.8, almost the same specific gravity, nearly all their compounds have a similar constitution, and the close resemblance which they otherwise manifest in both physical and chemical properties is most striking. Other substances also show an evident similarity of attributes and compounds, although the likeness is not so marked as in the case of nickel and cobalt. These things being so, it is hardly probable, it is argued by a large number of chemists, who maintain that allotropism in


1
THE SCHOLASTIC.
533
j the so-called elements is much more universal than is generally supposed, that two or more substances should in !! every respect so closely resemble each other and not be 4 essentially identical.	.
•!	[to be continued.]
' --------------------------------------------
i	An Epidemic of Crime.
-i	_____
। This evening I was shocked and inexpressibly saddened !	by reading in a daily paper the painfully minute details of
|	the manner in which a young man wandered from the
i	path of honor and integrity, and was—of course—de-
,	tected in a series of systematic and wilful forgeries. The
:	whole unhappy affair was given with all the grace and
accuracy of repertorial flourish and coloring; how the I- young man had hitherto borne a spotless reputation; Ij	how he was trusted; how he had betrayed that trust; and
I	lastly, how a rumor of the truth first came upon the
! streets, and how there came pouring in the fatal evidence [ that developed the rumor into conviction. Nothing that could add effect was overlooked—nothing omitted. It seemed too much—too dreadful—to comprehend its full significance in a moment. I asked myself, can this be true?
; can it be real? But there was no need for other testimony, !	—the proofs were already overwhelming,—it must be true,
and upon the forehead of a young man whose pathway in life seemed strewn with nought but beauteous flowers, is written the emblem of his social proscription—that hideous, awful word, forger. What a medley of reflections come
' thronging upon the brain, called into existence by the perusal of an item such as the foregoing! The curious searcher after coincidences gathers items of this and kin-1 kred kind and with mathematical precision classifies ■	them into what may be called records of crime. His mem-
i	ory of dates is exact, and his code of classification cannot
be called in question.
He is a scrupulous man. He prides himself upon his collocation of facts, and nothing would humiliate him so much as the proof that he had ever mhde a mistake. He is usually a practical man, with very little humor, and not the remotest suspicion of sensibility about him. He would | give you the dates and particulars of the most shocking crime with the same air of candor and precision with which a professor would demonstrate a proposition in Euclid. When such a man assures us that there are great Eras or Epidemics of crime, and that they occur with some attempt ' at regularity, and that they are the necessary offspring of a given hypothetical cause, we find ourselves unwilling to deny the truth of his proposition. I am aware that the I development of this theory as it is generally understood cannot fail to injure, if not entirely destroy, man’s free
• will; but the theory is not properly interpreted. By it is meant, not that eras of crime must necessarily occur, but simply that they are the necessary effects of some potent cause. If the cause has had an existence, then the epidemic is certain to follow.	.
r One who is in the least degree curious in such matters cannot fail to observe the—coincidence—if you wish—that r great calamities are more prevalent at one time than at another. We read of a great railroad accident, in which hundreds of people suffered and died; and almost before
1 we have had time to comprehend the meaning of the last sentence, we are appalled with a repetition of the disaster, _ and perhaps by another and still another, ere the ink with which the last was written had timc'to dry. From another r
section of the country come accounts of strikes and riots and bloodshed—dozens of them perhaps, without the inter val of a single day. From still another quarter we have explosions, and burnings, and losses by storm at sea—all crowding upon one another with a seemingly fatal persistency. Then again, at intervals, the newspapers are crowded with the revolting accounts of the most atrocious murders, suicides, robberies and scandals. It is true we find these' descriptions in the papers at all times, and it could not well be otherwise, for the world is large, and crime is being constantly committed, and it is~likewise true that we have remarkable epochs in which crimes of a certain class are vastly more prevalent.
We cannot accept such results without reflecting upon hem and trying to understand their secret cause. Why great plagues, accidents and disasters are more frequent at one time than another, it is not at present my purpose to inquire; but rather to reflect upon the probable occasion which induced the widespread commission of crime.
We have a few monomaniacs on this subject who attempt to demonstrate their own opinions, that crime is always the result of temporary insanity, which latter is —they claim—produced by atmospheric influences. It seems that the time has not yet come for us when it will prove a salutary objection to a proposition—that it is absurd. We find men entertaining this theory with all the zeal of enthusiasts; never pausing to consider what is its basis, or what the necessary deductions which must be drawn from it. If this theory be true, then the malice which constitutes the essence of murder is a delusion and never could have existed. If it be true, then man’s free will is most surely compromised, and man himself deserves very little credit for virtue, and no censure whatever for crime. But the absurdity of the proposition is sufficiently apparent to everyone—save the enthusiast.
But we have said epidemics of crime do exist; and how account for them ? The answer is not difficult. There is no result without a pre-existing cause, and the origin of crime can be traced directly to the corruption of the moral faculties. It rarely, if ever, occurs that a great crime is committed by one who has had no elementary training in the great school of vice. Moral turpitude is active in its operations, and advances upon its victim with insidious and certain strides. There is a regular and unerring progression in its movements. The tragic death of Laocoon and his sons is but an emblem of the hideous and irresistible folds in which vice enwraps and dooms to death the victims of its power. The pathway of iniquity is thronged on either side with poisoned arrows, all pointing inward and closing the avenue so completely as to prevent the possibility of a return. The victim of his snare blindly pursues some object infinitely smaller than himself down this deceptive road, and at last arrives at a sheer precipice and dies upon the brink or plunges madly to destruction in the abyss below. This is the career and the tragic fate of the individual, and why may we not generalize and extend it to a community or a nation? Are not the same snares laid, the same pathways opened, the same temptations presented to all who will heed them? The one thing unaccountable is7that men will learn nothing from the experience of their predecessors. It seems that the certainty of detection and the fear of punishment should alone deter men—even those who never heard the word, Christianity—from the commission of misdemeanors in which the inducement can be by no means adequate.
§34

The prevalence of crime depends upon two things: the morality of the people, and the magnitude of the temptation. We can trace the enormous development of robberies, defalcations and forgeries of the present time to two principal causes: The great civil, and the Godless system of education which is the vaunted boast of the legislators of our country. Even the legislators themselves, who should be models of integrity and manly worth, have done their share, at least, to swell the record of vice. Bribery, plunder, and interested legislation have become matters so common in our national halls as to cease to excite animadversion. The Civil War transformed an army of producers into an army of consumers. It is easier to consume than to produce, and thus crime necessarily took the place of industry. The old maxim, “ Every man has his price, and circumstance determines it,” was not written without Cause, and it would seem that circumstance is unpropitious, or the desire for money is relaxing, for the price is at present very low. But the real cause is beyond this; it is the false and ruinous System of our popular education. It develops the intellect and poisons the heart. It cultivates the already precocious desire for fame through the medium of wealth, while it banishes the very name of God and of religion from within its doors. Ask that unhappy man who is convicted of forgery or defalcation was he a disciple of the purely modern system of education, and in nine out of ten cases he will answer yes. Can we exclude the' name of God from the temples of science where our youth receive their education, and then wonder that we are afflicted with an epidemic’of crime? I think not. As rational men, we must expect the logical result of our deliberate action. The one only prevention of epidemics of this kind is—the
reform of our schools.
T. A. D.
American Artists.
From the time of Washington Allston’s success in the ■World of art, or—more properly speaking—from the time that the United States became a free, self-governing power among the nations, artists have come forward in such rapid succession that we can no longer afford to dwell upon the career of each one. We are forced to cull, from the ranks of aspiring genius, such as have elevated themselves above a mediocrity which is every day rising (like the streets of our new cities) to a higher grade. Instead of complaining at present that so few are disposed to devote themselves to art, we are obliged to complain that so few give themselves that time for serious study which is necessary to any high degree of excellence in art. . Genius may overcome many obstacles; but it cannot overcome those obstacles which are the result of actual ignorance, still more, the result of carelessness, negligence and indolence of mind. True genius is indefatigable in the achievement of its aims; and its principal aim is always a high degree of excellence. The sketches of a genius, a true, hard-working genius, often tell us more than the finished works of the merely talented; but it is because the genius has in his mind’s eye the perfect picture while making the sketch, and continually hints at a degree of perfection of which talent has no idea. We shall select, therefore, the hard-working artist for our sketches, and leave the lazy geniuses, if there are any, to hand themselves down to future generations as best they may.
Thomas Sully was born in Horncastle, Lincolnshire,
England, in June, 1783. His parents, who were players emigrated to the United States in 1792, or when Thomas was only nine years of age. At the age of 15 he begari the study of painting, in Charleston, South Carolina, and he was one of those painters who enjoyed the friendship of Mr. Allston. Indeed, the delicacy of Mr. Sully’s genius naturally allied him to one like Mr. Allston. In 1803 he established himself in Richmond, Virginia, and a few years later removed to New York. In 1809 he settled in Philadelphia, which became his home.
His reputation, as one of the leading American portrait painters, is founded upon numerous works produced in the chief cities of the United States. He painted a full lengt hportrait of George Francis Cooke, as Richard the Third, Dr. Benjamin Rush of Philadelphia, Commodore Decatur, Thomas Jefferson and Lafayette. His well-known picture of “ Washington Crossing the Delaware’’ is now in the possession of the Boston Museum. During a visit to England in 1837-8, he painted a full length portrait of Queen Victoria, which is esteemed a very faithful likeness,
Mr. Sully’s pictures do credit to the hearts, as well as to the heads, of his sitters. His own charming affability, cultivation of mind, and a certain gaiety peculiar to him, all combined to put his sitters into a state of genial good will. One pleasing incident came too directly under our own observation not to bet remembered. Mr. Sully had painted, most successfully, one of the learned professors of the University of Pennsylvania, and was then asked to paint the professor’s wife. This very amiable lady (a grandniece, by the way, of the first signer of the Declaration of Independence, John Hancock) had accompanied her husband at his sittings with Mr. Sully, and the artist was sure of succeeding in her portrait. He did succeed in painting her as she had sat, a delighted listener to the professor and the artist, in their animated conversations; but it was not a likeness of the charming woman who presided, with so much eclat, over her. own circle of admiring friends in her own parlors. The deficiency was felt by the family; but out of regard to the artist and his success with the professor, no comment’ was made which could disabuse the artist of his complacency.	_
A few weeks after the portraits were finished, Mr. Sully called upon his sitters. The Professor was not at home, but Madame was there, in alLthe sprightly charms of conversation and wit that belonged to her when left to entertain her guests. The visit over, the elegant Mr. Sully bowed his adieux. The next morning a note came to the professor, saying that “Mr. Sully found he had painted Madame only as a listener; and begging the pleasure of painting her while talking." The family were enchanted with the proposition, and in the second picture Madame appeared in all her habitual vivacity. A portrait of his mother, by Mr. Sully, is one we especially remember. A work of affection as well as of genius, it embodies Mr. Sully’s most charming characteristics as a painter.
We have not been able to procure the exact date of Mr Sully’s death, which occurred, however, only a very few years ago. His society was sought even after his hand had lost its cunning, and he will be remembered as one of the most accomplished and genial of American artists.

6
i
ft

%
—A clear case—An empty drygoods box.
—The best way for a man to acquire a fine flow of language is to stub his toe against a—raised brick!
THE SCH
O L A S TI C .	635
View from the Suspension Bridge at Nash.	ville, Tennessee.
’ The Suspension bridge over the Cumberland River at -Nashville, Tennessee, is quite long and high. It is sup-.ported by great wire cables, which pass over immense stone towers at either pnd, and are fastened into the ground. There are two of these cables, each about two feet in diameter, and composed of an immense number of iron wires. From a distance, the bridge appears to be •very frail; but it is really a very substantial structure; though when there is a large amount of traffic upon it, or when the wind blows, it jars and sways to and fro in a 'manner decidedly uncomfortable for timid persons.
One evening in May, 1873, a companion and I had occasion to cross this bridge on the way to our lodgings in Nashville. The day had been quite warm, but when we arrived at the middle of the bridge we discovered that there was a brisk breeze blowing up the river, and we stopped to enjoy its refreshing coolness and the beautiful view. We stood facing up the river, with the little town of Edgefield on our left and the city of Nashville on our right; far off in the distance to our right we could just distinguish, through the purple mist of evening, the outlines of a range of hills, crowned with the now broken and grass-covered earthworks in which" so much hard fighting was done during the war. Looking lower and nearer, we could see a part of the city which lies along the bank of the river, with its spires, towers and tall business houses on the wharf Still lower and nearer, almost under us, in fact, were the boats at the wharf, and the wharf itself covered with the various products of the neighboring country. Drays were loading and unloading; and one of the boats was getting up steam to leave. To our right, the State House, on a high hill in the centre of the city, was to be seen. It is a large white marble building, with porticos at each end, and a slender cupola in the centre. This building, though very solidly built, has such unity of design that no part■ impresses one as. being large or weighty; yet the whole leaves in the mind a notion of grandeur and size. It seems, indeed, to possess almost a personal character, marked by dignity and grace, and sits as proudly and lightly on its eminence as a queen on her throne.
We were distracted from our view of this beautiful building by the singing of some negro roustabouts, on a boat just leaving the wharf, and we returned to the side of the bridge to listen to them and see the boat leave. .
Negroes have fine ears for music, and excellent voices. Every one who has lived in a Southern river town knows how sweet their singing sounds in the stillness of the night to one just awakened by it from a sound sleep.. As the boat leaves the shore, the negroes commence to sing a kind of rude chorus, varied occasionally by a solo from the leader, who is generally mounted upon the capstan. The sound comes pealing over the water with almost unearthly sweetness, like" the music of distant silver bells. The effect is heightened if one gets up and looks at the boat with her rows above rows of brilliant lights, sparks flying out of her chimneys, the light from her furnace doors shining across the swiftly-flowing water, and hears. the deep mighty pant of her engines, and the complaint of the waves as with gradually increasing momentum she cleaves them apart.
On the present occasion the boat passed under us, and we went to the other side of the bridge to watch her go down the river. She soon passed out of sight around a bend, and we continued our observations from our new standpoint.
There is no landing for boats below the bridge, and the backs of the business houses on the square reach almost to the water’s edge. The bank is so steep that these houses are several stones higher at the back than at the front. । The tallest of these is the Methodist Publishing House, which is about eight stories high. A little way down the river was the railroad bridge. It is composed of two spans and an approach. There is a pretty little green islet in the river, and the great stone pier that supports the bridge rests upon it. While we were yet looking on, a dummy engine with a train ran across the bridge. It
looked quite small at that distance, and was apparently one of the sauciest little engines imaginable. It started across with a puff, and a whiz, and a bang, as if to say: “ See what a big thing I can do; I can pull all these cars and run across this bridge just as well as some of my big brothers who think they can do it all.” Hardly repressing a smile at the pert air of the dummy, we continued our way.	Q. R.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. A. Brown, W. Ball, J. Caren, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, T. Carroll, W. Canavan, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, W. Hughes, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, J. Lyons, J. Logsdon, G. McNulty, J. Marks, E. McPharlin, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavin, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, E. McLaughlin, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan, E. Marshall, P. MeCawley, J. Ney, A O’Brien, T. O’Leary, C. Otto, J. O’Connell, C. Proctor, G. Boulhac, J. Betz, C. Bobertson, W. Byan, J. Budge, J. Beidy, F. Schlink, P. Shaul, W. Stout, J. Soule, F. Wilhelm, C. Walters, B. White, J. Whalen, C. Wisner, C. Welty.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, A. Betcher, A Bergck, G. Budd, J. Buckels, A. Burger, J. Crummey, J. Dore, J. Del Vecchio, N. Dryfoos, B. Downey, F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxen, F. E. Foxon, J. French, J. T. Foley, G. J. Gross, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. D. Gleason, C. Hake, M. Kramer, J. P. Kurtz, M. Katzauer, H. Korty, F. Klaner, C. E. Leonhardt, J. Lynch, J. McIntyre, B. McGrath, H. McGuire, M. J. Murphy, D. Nelson, C. B. Post, H. W. Quan. L. Smith, J. A. Smith, G. Sugg, T. J. Solon, H. Sickle, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, R. J. Walker, J. E. Wood, G. Woodward, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, 0. Meyer, G. R. Serrill, O. Ludwig, W. Smith.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Samuel Goldsberry, Ralph Golsen, Francis Carlin, Walter Cunningham, Colly Campeau, Lee J. Frazee, Joseph Carter, Clement Moody, Oscar Beall, Michael McAuliffe, Willie Campbell, Thomas Hooley, Peter Nelson, Francis Campau, Albert Bushey, Louis Goldsmith, Willie Coolbaugh, Charlie Bushey, Sylvester Bushey, Harley McDonald.	'
Class Honors.	-
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MAY 27.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Senior Class—J. Obert, V. Baca, L. Evers, J. Larkin, A. O’Brien, F. Montgomery, P. Shaul, M. Egan, F. Brady, T. Solon, T. O’Leary, W. Schultheis, A. Schmidt, M. Allen, F. Wilhelm, C. Robertson, J. Thornton, J. Claffey, J. Flaherty, R. Downey, H. McGuire, J. Griffith, F. Foxen, T. Monahan, J. Wood, J. Golsen, J. Dore, F. Frazee, H. Korty, L. Best, G. Gross, C. Hake, M. Murphy, R. Staley.
Junior Class—J. Berringer, J, Logsdon, A Mohan, W. Hughes, L. Moran, A Berger, J. Lynch.
MINIM DEPARTMENT	■
Thomas Hooley, Hugh Colton, Francis Campau, Albert Bushey, Peter Nelson, Willie Lindsay, Willie Cash, Louis Goldsmith, Willie Coolbaugh, Willie Van Pelt, Charlie Bushey, Sylvester Bushey, Harley McDonald.	;
. List of Ezcellence.
[The Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during five consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—Director of Studies.]
Surveying—J. A. Brown. Moral PniLOSOPirr (S. C.) T-Murphy. 3rd Algebra—J. E. Wood.
—One of the boys just before returning to Cornell, the other day, sent a young lady friend of his a cake of Lubin’s finest variety of toilet soap, with the request that she would draw no inference on receiving such a gift. The next day the young man was somewhat astonished, when he received a letter from the young lady containing the present of a fine-tooth comb, with the request that he would draw no inferences therefrom.	•
r
5SG
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® $®h®la§ti®t
Published every Weeli during Term Time at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.	*
TERMS:
Oneyear.......................................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) can be obtained at the Students'' Office.
The Scholastic for the 2nd. Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of & months is fifty cents ; besides which all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
■ Address: Editor cf the Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
—The Annual Commencement this year 'will be delightful to all, because of the great variety in the exercises ■which will take place. There will be one afternoon given to the Societies, at which time representatives of each of the different societies will appear before the public and speak for its honor. Another afternoon will be given to the Graduating Class, when the young men who are about to leave the ’ College, never to enter again as students, will address the •public. A grand Organ Concert is to be given on one of the evenings of the week to give all the friends of the house who may come to see us an opportunity of hearing the really magnificent Organ lately purchased for the new Church. There will be a dramatic entertainment on Tuesday evening, when we hope to see the Thespians keep up the reputation of the society and give us an exhibition of their powers. There will be a meeting of the Alumni, and a grand banquet tendered them by their Alma UTater. There will be a boat-race on the upper lake, when the best time ever made by any crew at Notre Dame will be made —at least such is the expectation. And lastly the prizes will be given, the degrees bestowed, and the Oration delivered at a time different from those at which the other exercises take place.
The ex-students who are now in business will see from the above that a good time is awaiting them, and that all they have to do is to come to Notre Dame, and enjoyment, is theirs. No one of the different exhibitions will be of great length. All are comparatively short, thus at no time surfeiting them with sweets and making them sit for hours and hours in the same position. We predict that the Commencement Day of 1874-5 will be the livest and most successful of any ever given. We understand that especial attention will be given to the old members of the Societies by the present members, so that no matter how many years ago it was that a person went to class here, he will receive the same welcome that will be given to one of last year’s class, and that welcome will be hearty and sincere.
—That the Centennial Exposition next year in Philadelphia may be a complete and entire success, is undoubtedly the desire of all Americans. People from all parts of the country will give aid to the enterprise ,by their attendance. We have no doubt but that there will be at least twenty thousand visitors daily to the Exposition, and if there is such a thing as failure in the affair it will be attributable to the Philadelphians alone. There has been plenty of time given them to prepare everything, in order that success may crown the undertaking. They have received aid from their State, and if they have not obtained what they desired from the general Government, they
have every assurance of aid from other quarters. They should not expect any Government aid. Th^ benefit which the Centennial will do for their city is a good and sufficient consideration for the Philadelphians defraying all the expenses themselves. There is no more reason for asking Government aid for it than the city of Cincinnati would have in petitioning Congress to aid its musicians in holding their Biennial May Musical Festivals. There should be enterprise enough in Philadelphia and the State of Pennsylvania to raise the amount necessary to carry out their plans.
There is, however, one thing which it is necessary for the people of the Quaker City to do if they wish their Exposition to be successful, and that is, they must provide the visitors to their city with the proper accommodations. At present the hotels of Philadelphia would not be able to accommodate the many persons who intend to be present at the Centennial. There is but one hotel in the city which is of any considerable size, and if the Continental Hotel were in Chicago, St. Louis, or Cincinnati it would not be counted as first class. And yet, excepting this one, the remainder of the hotels there are small, and very many of them are old-fashioned. Where then are the visitors to the Exposition to be accommodated ? Surely they do not intend converting their dwellings into boarding houses for the time. Yet if they do not do so, or build more hotels, their Exposition will be a failure, simply because the city will be unable to accommodate strangers.
Art Notes.
—M. Emile Gavet, having in his possession about one hundred pasties and drawings of Millet, has selected forty six for exhibition in Paris.
—A telegram from Rome announces the discovery of thirty-six documents connected with Michael Angelo, of great interest for the history of art. They will be published for his centenary this autumn.
—The picture of M. Gerome, called “ the Sabre Dance,” now exhibiting in the French Gallery, and which Mr. H. Wallis had the honor of submitting to the approval of the Queen, has been sold for 4,700 guineas. The purchaser is a lady.
—The Imperial German commission for the centennial Exhibition to be held in Philadelphia, has announced that the preparations for the German division of Group IX, plastic and graphic art, will be under the direction of the Art Association of Germany.
—The State Library of Virginia has been presented with a portrait of Pocahontas, which is said to be an exact copy, made by the elder Sully in 1830, of the original portrait of the Indian princess during her visit to England, between the years 1616 and 1617. It has been in possession of the descendants of Pocahontas up to the present time.
—The catalogue of the Salon, or great exposition of works of art in Paris for 1875, contains the names of 303 women artists. Of these 80 exhibit oil paintings; 192 designs, cartoons, water colors, pastelles, miniatures, enamels, porcelain, pottery, and paintings on glass; while 19 exhibit sculptures, and 12 engravings and lithographs. There are in France 75 women artists who have gained prizes in former exhibitions. Of these 70 are painters, 3 sculptors, and 2 engravers.
—The French Government of Fine-Arts commission have on hand a great work which will make known to the world at large the existence of the numerous artistic masterpieces which are stored away in the out-of-the-way churches and official buildings in Paris. Engravings will be made of the great frescoes and oil-paintings, and the task of making these engravings is intrusted to the first masters of France. This we learn from the Paris corre-
THE SCHOLASTIC.	537
Spondent of Appleton's Journal, who says: “ In this collection the works of Hippolite Flandrin will hold a prominent place. The two great frescoes by him in the church of St. Germain des Pres, representing the ascent of Mt. Calvary and the Entry of Christ into Jerusalem, form the first two numbers of the work.”
—The portrait of Our Holy Father Pope Pius IX, painted in Rome a few years ago by Signor Luigi Gregori, is now on exhibition in Chicago. The portrait was painted from sittings given by the Holy Father, and is said to be an exact likeness. If as true to the original as that of Bishop Gilmour, painted at Notre Dame, last year, by this distinguished artist, it is certainly an exact likeness. Mr. Gregori is at present engaged on a set of fourteen Stations for the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, of which three are already completed, and are masterpieces of coloring and brilliant effect. Mr. Gregori while in Rome is said to have been one of the best copyists of the old masters in the Eternal City, and was brought to the notice of the Holy Father by the late distinguished statesman and connoisseur, Cardinal de Merode.
—A correspondent of the Boston Daily Advertiser, writing from Rome, says: “I saw a few days ago the altar Which is under the marble-worker’s hands, and which is to be placed when finished in the New York Cathedral. It is Italian gothic and will be a dazzling collection of the most precious marbles. There are small triple columns of porphyry and verd-antique; other little of exquisite malachite, white marble screens diapered in precious porphyry, verd-antique, oriental alabaster, malachite, giallo-antico, lapis-lazuli, etc., six little white marble statues of the Apostles Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Peter, and Paul stand between beautiful columns of glittering malachite. The tabernacle is incrusted with precious marbles. The bas-reliefs on the altar-font are in white marble; the ‘Agony in the Garden,’ ‘the Bearing of the Cross’ on either side and ‘ the Last Supper ’ in the centre. It is a superb work. Its only fault is the quantity of detail. It lacks unity; it has no effect as a whole, and I am afraid its wonderful exquisite workmanship will be lost in a large Cathedral. Still it is not yet completed. I saw it only in parts, therefore my judgment or criticism is premature. When seen close at hand, it must, however, be admired. It is fine enough to put under glass; rich in color, precious in material and most delicate in execution.”
Musical STotes.
—The eminent violinist Papini will rass the season in London.
—Watson's Art Journal has a series of excellent articles on “ Lyric Art in Italy.”
—There are now, it is said, three hundred American girls studying music in Milan.
—Mr. James Noctzly, a very promising musical critic, died lately in New York city.
—The report that Verdi had written a cantata in honor of Donizetti is authoritatively contradicted.
—Thomas’ Central Park Garden Concerts began on the 17th. The opening concert was very successful.
—The testimonial to Sir Julius Benedict will be presented at Dudley House, on the 19th inst., by Earl Dudley.
—The death of Mr. W. H. Nicholson, Flutist, is announced. He died in England on the 12th of April last.
—Miss Minnie Hauck, the American prima donna, essayed the role of Marguerite in Vienna, and created great enthusiasm.
<—Mr. R. R. Springer, a well-known Catholic gentleman of Cincinnati, has promised to contribute §125,000 towards the erection of a grand music hall in that city. It will belong to the musicians.
—Verdi has been nominated, by Marshal de MacMahon, Commander in the Legion of Honor, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
—The choir of the Thomas-Kirche in Leipsig, where the Bach Passion music was first performed, have joined with
others in forming a Bach society for the production of J. S. Bach’s church canticles.—Watson's Art Journal.
—The musical public who are acquainted with Mme. Clara Schumann, whether personally or by reputation, will rejoice to learn that she has recovered from her recent severe illness, and has again appeared in public.—The Arcadian.
—Overtures are again the rage with our enterprising violin pupils. Among the most prominent are Mozart’s “Magic Flute”—played by G. Roulhac; Mozart’s “Figaro ”—by R. Maas; Cherubini’s “ Water Carrier ”—by W. Byrne; “ Rossini’s “ Italian in Algiers ”—by J. Lynch; Herold’s “Zampa”—by J. Del Vecchio; Suppe’s “Poet and Peasant”—by J. Dryfoos; Weber’s “ Jubilee”—by A. Burger; Boieldieu’s “Dame Blanche”—by J. Murphy; Boieldieu’s “ Caliph de Bagdad”—by A. Schmidt; Boieldieu’s “Jean de Paris”—by J. McHugh’. These young men show that they appreciate the efforts of the orchestra to give them a taste for good music.
—Our ears are besieged by the perfect babel of sounds wafted into our sanctum from the open windows of the Music HaU. The most bold and forward are those expelled by the class who prefer to “ blow their own horn.” However, the more constant, energetic and penetrating are produced by that portion of our young musicians who prefer to bring out sweet sounds by agitating the inside of a sheep (by many supposed to be a cat) with the rear portion of the noble animal that gallops across the deserts of Arabia. Our aspiring pianists, not wishing to be called “pianoe smashers,” modestly keep in the background and furnish that confused hum which serves as a background to the tone-picture. We can testify that spring-tever has not broken out yet in the Music Hall, and that the Examination will show a great improvement in our Musical Department.
—The Cuban correspondent of the N. Y. Sun says: “On Friday morning last the Chief of Police requested Mr. Jose White, the celebrated violinist, who has been giving concerts throughout the island, to appear at his office. When Mr. White reached there he was politely informed that he must leave the island at once, by order of the Captain General. The intercession of the French Consul and Mr. White’s own demands for an explanation had no other result than drawing from Acting General Carbo that the Government had its reasons for so doing, and would give them to the Government of France if they should be demanded. White is a great artist, and professor of violin at the Conservatoire of Paris. He denies strenuously that he has ever meddled with, or even spoken about, the politics of this country, and has strictly limited himself to giving concerts. White is a native of Matanzas, the son of a negro woman and an American merchant, the father having given him a good education. His great proficiency on the the violin caused him to study in Europe. He obtained the first violin prize at the Paris Conservatoire, after a stay of less than six months. In appearance, White is a dark mulatto, with very regular features. He is married to a very handsome Parisian lady. Socially, White is a great favorite in Paris; his distinguished manners, fine education and his immense musical talent having giving him quite a name during the Empire, and his popularity is on he increase- His concerts here were frequented by the Jite-of the Cuban society. He left on Wednesday on a professional tour to Mexico.
Literature. '
—“ The Vikings of the Baltic,” is the title of Dr. Da-sent’s new novel, published in England.	■
- —The Minerva Press of Montreal have in press Eather Charmetanl’s book, entitled “ Les Peuplades Kabyles."
—There will be three volumes of Lord Edmond Fitzmaurice’s “Lord Shelburne.” The second will probably appear in the autumn.
—The author of “S. Clave’s” has a new novel in the press, called “Eglantine,” which will shortly be issued by Messrs. Hurst and Blackett.
—Alexis Talstoy’s “ Life of Ivan the Terrible ” has been
538
S’
translated by Prince Gallitzen. It is said to be one of the most remarkable books of the day.
—“Ashes to Ashes,” a cremation prelude, by the Rev. H. R. Haweis, the fourth edition of which will shortly appear with a new preface, has just been translated into German.
—A new work, entitled, “ Cositas Espanolas; or, EveryDay Life in Spain,” from the pen of Mrs. Harvey, of Ick-well Bury, will be shortly published by Messrs. Hurst and Blackett.
—A memoir of the late Canon Brookfield is in preparation. It is rumored that some lines by Mr. Tennyson, who was an old and intimate friend of the deceased, will be prefixed to the volume.
—Mr. Ingram,- the editor of Edgar Allan Poe’s works, has received numerous invitations to visit the United States, where his efforts to vindicate Poe appear to have been warmly appreciated.
—All persons wishing a high-toned weekly paper devoted to literature, art, music and the drama should subscribe for Watson's Art Journal, the ablest paper of its kind published in the United States.
—“ The Land of the Cid,” from the French of Frederick Ozanam, author of a “ History of Civilization in the- 5th Century;” and “The Spirit of Faith; or What must I do to Believe ” ?—by Bishop Hedley, O. S. B., are announced as in press by the Catholic Publication Society.
—Mr. R. H. Horne, the author of “ Orion,” etc., has now in the press a new edition of his historical tragedy of “ Cosmo de’ Medici,” entirely reconstructed, some lightcomedy scenes being cancelled, and several new tragic scenes interpolated. The publication will also comprise “ other poems.”
—M. Michel Levy will publish this month the second volume of Michelet’s “History of the Nineteenth Century.” It is largely concerned with England, against which, as is well known, Michelet entertained those prejudices which were prevalent among the majority of Frenchmen reared under the First Empire.	'
—The Catholic Publication Society have issued the pamphlets on the Gladstone Controversy in book form. Cardinal Manning’s and Dr. Newman’s pamphlets, together with the “ Decrees and Canons of the Vatican Council,” make one volume; and Fessler’s “ True and False Infallibility,” Bishop Ullathorne’s and Bishop Vaughan’s replies, and the “ Syllabus for the People,” make another.
—The Atlienceum says that every student in English History will be glad to hear that the English Government employs an agent in Rome to collect materials for English History from the secret archives of the Vatican. The Pope has given his assistance to the English Government, but, official obstacles were thrown in the way of the agent. Happily these hindrances have, through the exertions of Cardinal Manning, been removed, and the English Government owes a privilege never before enjoyed by any nation to a Roman Catholic dignitary.
—Miss Harriet Martineau is busy writing her autobiography. She is seventy-two years old. A great many people of late years, who have done nothing themselves, have given us or left us their reminiscences of people of more worth than themselves, and of events in which they moved as lay figures. Miss Martineau has done (she did not cure a cow of dyspepsia, with homoeopathic globules,) written and travelled more than any other living woman. By written is meant stuff that will hve, not mere volumes. Her autobiography will be of deep interest.—Watson's Art Journal.	.
—The Catholic World for June, 1875, has arrived. It contains the usual number of excellent articles which are habitually to be found in this monarch of monthlies. The contents are: I, Specimen Charities; II, The Blind Beggar (Poetry); III, Are You My Wife? IV,Chiefly Among Women”; V, “A Charge Answered”; VI, Stray Leaves from a Passing Life; VH, The Cardinalate; VIII,’ On the Way to Lourdes; IX, Brother Philip; X, The Lady Ann of Cleves; XI, In memory of Harriet Ryan Alber (Poetry); XII, The Roman Ritual and its Chant; XUI, New Publications.	:
:	—Charles Reade, the novelist, and Mortimer Colling, a
London verse and story writer, are publicly quarrelling in a way that seems to show that neither is a gentleman. And Swinburne, apparently anxious to equal them in coarseness, espouses Reade’s cause and says of him: “He should not desire to escape the honor of being defamed or to incur the ignominy of being applauded by the writers or the readers of such romances of high life as may be penned by some erotic scullion gone mad with long contemplation of the butler’s calves and shoulders, or by some discarded footman who, since he was kicked out of his last place with the spoons in his pocket, may have risen or sunk into notoriety or obscurity, as a gluttonous and liquorish rhymester or novelist, patrician of the pantry, whose aristocratic meditations alternate between the horsewhip with which he is evidently familiar and the dinner with which he apparently is not.”—IV. K Sun.
—The “ Voce della, Verita” of March IGth, says: “Besides some Italian and foreign families, the Holy' Father gave audience yesterday to Mr. Adelrich Benziger, a distinguished Swiss, and representative of the highly respected house of Charles and Nicholas Benziger Brothers of Einsie-deln, to whom the Catholics of Switzerland are so much indebted. Mr. Benziger presented to his Holiness a fine collection of the books, periodicals and pictures which they issue as printers, publishers, and chromo-lithographers, and circulate all over the world. The collection included: The life of Christ, by L. C. Businger, a refutation of Renan’s book; elegant almanacs, religious gift books, prayer books, devotional works, books of an amusing character, entertaining tales, and the Alte und Neue an excellent and well edited perodical, filled with beautiful illustrations which appeal both to the eye and the heart of the people. This journal has a circulation of 60,000, and is doing much good. All the works of the Messrs. Benziger are highly laudable, and of great value in helping to preserve the old faith and the old Virtue of the Swiss people. The immense circulation which their publications have attained enables these gentlemen to offer them at remarkably low prices. The Holy Father examined the books and pictures and expressed great satisfaction with them, and with words of praise encouraged Mr. Benziger to continue in his excellent and holy work.” From another source we learn that the Holy Father graciously accepted the products of the firm, and Mr. Benziger was permitted to accompany his Holiness in his walk through the rooms of the Vatican.
The New Manual of the Sacred Heart. • Compiled, and. translated from approved sources. Baltimore: Kelly, Piet & Company. 174 IV. Baltimore Street.
This little manual, published to meet the wants of Confraternities and devout lovers of the Sacred Heart, ought to be popular. The selection of prayers has been made with care, while the number of excellent directions for hearing Mass with devotion deserves special mention. The book serves admirably as a prayer book. In form it is a neat 24mo., 332 pp. Its price in cloth extra, stamped in in black and gold, red edges, 75 cents; Levant morocco, red or gilt edges, §1.25; English calf, red or gilt edges, §2.50. Calf or Turkey Morocco, ribbon edge, §3; Turkey Morocco antique, §3; Turkey Morocco, rims and clasp, §4.50.
The Young Doctor. ' By Hendrik Conscience, author of “ The Curse of the Village,” etc. Baltimore : John Murphy & Co., 182 Baltimore Street, 1875.
Ludovic and Gertrude. By Hendrik Conscience, author of “The Lion of Flanders,” etc. Baltimore: John Murphy & Co., 182 Baltimore Street, 1875.	’
We remember once reading an article in which the writings of Hendrik Conscience were compared to pearls set in Flemish-gold. We doubt not but that the many delighted readers of the inimitable stories of the Flemish novelist will be more than pleased to see these beautiful stories put into English dress. Parents can trust any work with Conscience’s name on the title-page, in their children’s hand, for there is nothing in them which goes to taint their morals. On the contrary, he always inculcates good principles, and teaches a sincere love for virtue. While he does this, he does not become tedious, nor, after the manner of the ordinary Sunday-School book, does he become
I.
4/
r.

THE SCHOLASTIC.
539
■ tickly sentimental. These two volumes are no exception' o the style and manner of the author. Messrs. Murphy & Co. have issued the books in a very handsome style. The price is not given, though it cannot be much. We advise the young folks to buy them.
Personal.
—Profs. Tong and Ivers drive good horses.
—John Coppinger, of ’69, is practicing law in Alton, Ill. —Constantine Gallagher, of’67, is county clerk in Omaha. —Alex. Chapoton, of’54, is a contractor in Detroit, Mich. —Mrs. Faxon, of Chicago, was a guest at Notre Dame on the 23rd.
—Mr. and Mrs. Foxen, of Detroit, spent last Sunday at Notre Dame.
—Judge Stanfield and Mr. Anderson passed an afternoon at the College last week.
—Rev. P. J. Golovin and Prof. J. A. Lyons spent last Wednesday in Chicago.
—Herman Falkenbach, of ’68, is in the Insurance busi ness in Columbus, Ohio.
—Mr. M. Livingston, of South Bend, spent a few hours at the College on Monday last.
■ —A. Filson, of ’72, is telegraph operator in Grand Rapids, Mich. From all accounts he is doing very well.
—Andrew and Charley Blong, of ’70, are in business With their father in St. Louis.
—‘Michael J. Skilling, an old typo of the Scholastic, and subsequently a graduate of the Jefferson Medical College, is practicing medicine in Philadelphia.
—John E. O’Brien, of ’74, with his sister, spent Corpus Christi day at Notre Dame. Mr. O’Brien is doing business with his father at Kewanee, Hl.
—Ex-Mayor Barker, of Detroit, the father of Chas. K. Barker’ of ’64, was drowned last week. His many friends at Notre Dame sympathize with the afflicted family in their sad bereavement.
’—Rev. J. G. McNulty, of ’67, died at Decorah, Iowa, last week. Father McNulty had many warm friends, who will mourn his loss. He was a faithful, energetic priest and Christian gentleman.	■
—We were pleased to meet Messrs. Terbrueggen and Peas, of Watertown, Wis., on Corpus Christi day. They are both wholesouled gentlemen, and all at Notre Dame
’ will be delighted to have them with us often. •
—Jos.D.Murphy, an old Scholastic typo, is proof-reader on the Philadelphia Ledger. He has a hard tussle when he comes to the obituary poems. Rumor has it that he occasionally assists the great obituary bard.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin gave a dinner to-day to Hon.
- Judge Stanfield -and lady, Hon. Andrew Anderson and lady, Ex-President Colfax and lady, Mayor Miller and lady, Hon. Lucius Hubbard of ’59 and lady, and Prof. L. G Tong of ’65 and lady.
—Gregory Campau, of ’49, visited the College on Monday last. Mr. Campau entered the College in ’43, the year in which it was started. We are always pleased to see the students who entered when the College was young. Mr. Campau is doing business in Detroit.
—The family of Signor Luigi Gregori have lately returned to Rome, but the distinguished artist himself remains at Notre Dame a year or two longer in order to complete his engagements here. His completed pictures of the Stations are eliciting universal approbation.
—Concerning Rev. P. W. Riordan, of ’58, the Chicago Times, after speaking adversely of Church fairs, says:
“ We are glad to notice and commend’ the manly position on this question taken by the Rev. P. W. Riordan, pastor of St. James’ (Catholic) church. His course is such as might be expected from a man whose profound reverence fijr' God, whose priest he is, will not permit him to sanction the profanation of a single stone in the temple of His worship. To the utmost zeal, Father Riordan unites the strictest morality ; without personal
vanity he has the respect for his position that, worthily filled,- is its due. Erudite to an uncommon degree, he is yet more than a learned priest, he is an honest man. The edifice in which his congregation now worships is tumbling about their ears. Under his promptings they have decidedmpon the erection of a new structure. In an address to his congregation last Sunday he gave an account of the finances of the church. Towards the puchase of a lot which was to cost §25,000, the people had subscribed §10,000; the remainder he had made up by rigid management of his household and the current expenses of the church. In the course of his remarks the reverend gentleman said:
“If you want a church, you must subscribe the means to build it. It will never be built in any other way. I have given more to it than any of you; I am willing to work for you all my life, no compensation except my simple living; therefore, I have a right, and it is my duty, to speak plainly to you. If it takes twenty years to build the new church by subscription, then we shall remain twenty years in this old one! If you ask me why I do not have a fair, I tell you, never. If you are not willing to give to God a small portion of the means He has given you, without taking the amount out in amusement, then you may keep it. If this church could be built in a month by having a fair, I would not have one. If it could be built in a week by my selling a single lottery ticket, I would not do it, because it is against the laws of the land. If yon ask me why I do not have an entertainment with a dance, and sell liquor, I tell you that my hands shall never erecta house of Godby such disgraceful means. Nor shall I ask any man for a cent, nor tell any man that he ought to give this or that amount. * * * If you do not care enough about your church to put it up yourselves, it cannot go up. I shall do everything towards its hastening which a priest can do.. I will work, and contrive, and save for you ; but I will not have a fair, nor a dance, nor a lottery, nor sell liquor ; nor will I do anything toward it inconsistent with the character of a priest.”
There is such directness and honesty about this utterance that ■ we heartily commend its sentiment to the consideration of other churchmen. Father Riordan’s self-sacrifice in giving back to the people all that they gave him, save his bare living expenses, will be regarded as preposterous by worldly divines who linger lovingly on that text of Scripture which proclaims that the laborer is worthy of his hire ; but they may adopt his manly attitude on the money question in other respects, to their own credit and to the general advancement of morality.
. Local Items.
—“Chickero” is back.	.
—Bulletins next week.	■	.
—How do you like our new fence ?
—There is very little sickness here.
—“ Pugh is the champion coxswain.”
—Bro. Constantine’s shop looks nobby.
—Mr. Bonney is beginning to be kept busy.
—There will be an ordination next Friday.
—There is occasionally a duck on the lakes.
—How about the silk hats for the graduates ?	’
—Bro. Bonaventure’s garden looks splendidly.
—‘The new Organ attracts -the attention of all.
—The Repositories on Thursday were very fine.
—Bro. Norbert’s flowers are attracting attention.
—The month of May will end the coming week.
—At the Manual Labor School all hands are busy.
—There is to be a concert on Commencement Day.
—The stained glass in the new Church is very fine.
—There are any amount of wild flowers in the woods.
—The notices of the Alumni were sent off this last week
—The Book-keeping classes are busy copying up their books.
—The backstop on the Excelsiors’ grounds is very convenient.
—The wider the brim of your straw hat the more style you cut.
—The Cecilians will give us “The Retribution” about the 10th of June.
—The “ boys ” have enormous appetites when Graduating Cake is passed around.
540
THE SCHOLASTIC.
—Bro. Alfred will superintend the erection of the new steam-house.	.
—Bro. Valerian is making the grounds back of the Presbytery look well.
. —The Band had«rehearsals every night during the fore part of the week.
—Arches were erected in many places on Thursday last .for the procession.
—If there is a busy, person about the premises it is Thomas Gegan, Esq.
—Prepare your badges and flags and banners for the Commencement Day.
—The masons are kept hard at work taking down parts of the old steam-house.
—Oar friend John is going to get a sixty-five dollar suit for Commencement Day.
—The large chimney of the steam-house came down with a-crash on Wednesday.
—The Surveying Class were out Monday. Not at the • Botanical Garden this time.
• —The rec. halls are not used much now. It’s too fine to stay indoors during free time.
—The Junior yard has been thoroughly cleaned, and the •boys enjoy themselves greatly.
—The Thespians have copied their parts in “ Vildac,” and next month will be lively.
—We are pleased to see that the rubbish just cast of our office has been carted away.
—The Philopatrians were the first persons who in a • group were shot by Mr. Bonney.
—It is proposed that each Society should retain the color of this year in the years succeeding.
—The young ladies of St Mary’s Academy had a picnic at the St. Joe Farm on Tuesday last.
—Mr. Bonney has some excellent photographs of Rev. Father Golovin. He asks fifty cents for them.
—The Thespians have their principal play selected, and are learning their parts for Commencement Day.
—Visitors without number, and welcome ones (all are welcom who come) arrive and depart every day..
• —Our friend John says he is not afraid of any member of the Boat Club if it comes down to the fine point.
—The sheep gave a rather picturesque appearance the other day to the greensward in front of the college.
—There are plenty of fishermen on the lakes now. None, however, have come up to Bro. Alban’s five-pounder.
—The painting of St. Joseph, which occupies the niche at the Novitiate until the statue arrives, is by no means a bad one.	•
—And now the excitement about the championship is becoming very great among the spoilers of the bat and ball.
—The workmen removed the large boiler back of the steam-house on Monday last, preparatory to pulling down the chimney.
—The trees planted in the Junior yard last year are growing finely! They will in a few years add much beauty to the premises.
—We understand that the Juniors intend getting hanging baskets for their Study Hall. Nath, has promised to move in the matter.
—Every evening the upper lake presents an animated appearance. All the boats are out on the waters, and promenaders throng the walks.
—There are some beautiful specimens of English ivy in Bro. Alban’s study hall. The ivy will be trailed about the niche in which the statue is placed.
—A petition to have Commencement Day on the 23d of June, signed by the majority of the students, was presented to Father Golovin last Monday morning.	■
—Rakes and brooms will be in almost constant use from this until the Commencement Day, in order that Notre Dame may put on her best for all comers.
—If you wish to see work and plenty of it, just step into the new church. Organ-builders, painters, carpenters, glaziers, plastere'rs, and all, make things lively.
—On Wednesday last, the general recreation day, many of the younger students spent some pleasant hours gathering flowers, evergreens, etc., for the Feast of Corpus Christi.
—Bro. Alban has purchased some very beautiful flowers for his study hall. His hanging baskets are real beauties ;z if you don’t believe it just step into the room and take a look at them.
—Bros. Marcellinus, Leander and Alexander have had new benches placed on the south side of the Junior’s hall and also on the grounds of the Excelsior Club. The boys find them very’convenient.
—We remarked to our friend John that the study halls with their grand display of flowers began to resemble hothouses. “ Yes,” said he, “they make it pretty hot for a fellow in there sometimes.”
—P. F. McQuaid, the floral gardener-in South Bend knows his business. It was from him that Bro. Alban got his flowers. We can recommend him to all those wishing to purchase house or garden plants.
—The 1st nine of the Mutuals as reorganized is as follows: H. Sickel, c; W. Davis, p. and capt.; E. Stichtenoth, s. s; C. Peltier, 1st b; H. Newman, 2nd b; C. Walsh, 3rd b ; F. Goldsberry, s. f; D. Nelson, c. f; J. Haffey, r. £
—We understand that the young gentleman whom we lately mentioned as having inherited the crater of Mt. Vesuvius has proposed to the lady that owns the Falls of Niagara. He thinks she will “put him out” in case of an eruption.	•	.
—The denizens of the Printing Office, and other interested parties, would feel thankful if all rubbish, etc., were carried to its proper place, behind the stable, whence it can be removed from time to time, instead of being piled up outside the Printing Office, as heretofore.
—To the Editor of the Scholastic: Dear Sir: as a member of the most hardworking, old established, reliable, aud ill-used body in the House—viz: the secular Faculty, —may I ask the Marshal of the Day why was there no position assigned to us in the procession as usual on Corpus Christi ?	.	Yours, 0. D. S.
—The seventh regular meeting of the Notre Dame Scientific Association was held on Sunday evening, May 16th, Rev. Mr. Zahm presiding. The first business transacted was the election of a representative for Society Day; The honor was conferred on Mr. J. J. Gillen. Next in order was a dissertation on “ The Correlation aud Conservation of Forces,” by T. H. Grier.
—A number of students made their First Communion on the Feast of Corpus Christi. A special Mass was said for them at half past seven in the morning, and hence they were not compelled to fast until twelve o’clock. This arrangement was approved by all. Each and all of the young Communicants we hope will retain the grace of their Frst Communion until their dying day.
—Rev. Father Carrier has sent a very fine collection of flower-seeds to the Brother in charge of the garden at the Manual Labor School. Father Carrier writes a very entertaining letter .from Galveston, which we are sorry we cannot lay before our readers, the recipient regarding it as entirely private. However, we are allowed to. state that the Rev. Father sends his kindest regards to all at Notre Dame.
—A sacred concert will be given in the new church on the occasion of the opening of the new organ, June 6th, at 4 o’clock p. m. The price of admission is 50 cts.; reserved seats §1.00. Special trains will run from Niles and South Bend at 3 and 6 o’clock, thus enabling parties in South Bend and Niles to attend. A number of first class organists will alternately preside at the organ and give to all parties a first class musical treat.
—Fallen—fallen—fallen—from his high estate and weltering in his soot. Of course we mean the big chimney, whose demise took place on Wednesday, amidst a sorrowing circle of friends and compeers in the ars fumandi.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
541
r
f
1
Farewell, old friend—inspirer of the lofty aspirations of my youth! Thou, that wast to me then what the standpipe is now—a sort of materialized “Excelsior!” But how are the mighty fallen! I witnessed thine origin, rise, progress and completion. And when the new College was built and it was found that thou smokedst, on aecoun-of not being sufficiently tall. I witnessed the supplementary addition of several feet to thy stature. But it’s all over now, and what’s the use ? Thou didst not bust the stable, anyhow.	.
—The Feast of Corpus Christi was celebrated at Notre Dame with the usual magnificence for which the place is known on such occasions. In the morning the Solemn High Mass was sung by the Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, assisted by deacon and subdeacon. At this Mass Rev. Father Toohey preached an excellent sermon.
At 4J4 o’clock in the afternoon, Solemn Vespers was sung by Very Rev. Father General. Vespers over, Rev. Father O’Mahoney ascended the pulpit and delivered a characteristic sermon on the Holy Eucharist. The Procession of the Blessed Sacrament left the church at about 5% o’clock, and marched completely around the upper lake, returning to the College Church about seven o’clock. There were as many as eight large banners in the procession; the College Band played good music, and many flags and banners adorned the different buildings. Arches were erected in front of the College, at the Scholastic Office, at the Botanical Garden, at each side of the Novitiate, at the mound to the west of the upper lake, at the entrance to the Scho-lasticate grounds, in the front and in the rear of the Scho-lasticate, near the Professed House, and to the west of the Church. All these arches were beautifully and artistically decorated with flowers and evergreens. The boats were anchored in the middle of the lake. It was a beautiful sight to see them tastefully decorated with flags and rib--bons. The young men belonging to the Boat-Club deserve much credit for their taste in fitting out the boats so beau' tifully.
We know not what to say concerning the repositories : we feel that we would do them injustice to attempt their description. Never at Notre Dame has there ever been any equal to them. They were erected at the Novitiate by the novices, to the west of the upper Lake by the Sisters of St. Mary’s, and at the Scholasticate by the scholastics and Sisters from Notre Dame. Although all of the repositories were grand, the last-named was the most artistic. It was planned by Prof. Edwards, who worked long and hard, at it with his assistants. The beautiful natural flowers which made such a display, were procured from Mr. P. F. McQuaid, of South Bend, who deserves the patronage of all persons here desiring flowers.
Rev. Father Louage and the Novices labored many days beautifying the paths over which those forming the procession were to walk, and in erecting their repository. The Sisters from St. Mary’s gave much time and-attention to the mound west of the lake, erecting their repository. When we consider the great’amount of time, work and trouble required in order to erect a repository, we know not how to thank all who were engaged in building them. The procession was one of the largest and finest ever formed at Notre Dame.
I o •--- —
JTot Particular to a Shade.
Mr. Editor .-—I am sorry to say that your informant as to the colors worn on last Society Day led you somewhat into error, by giving you those worn two years ago. On the last occasion some changes were made, although the Archconfraternity stuck to its blue and white, the Thespians to their blue alone and the Columbians to their royal purple— the richest badge of all, and deservedly so, considering the talent embraced by that sooiety. But the Cecilians declined to look blue any longer, and came forward blushing like a rose, and the Philopatrians, horribile dictu. exchanged their green for orange—yes, Mr. Editor although ProfEdwards, who is an unimpeachable judge of color, and in fact of pretty things in general, having made msthetics a specialty—although he called it a “ maize,” it was amazingly like the color I have seen Orangemen wear in Toronto on the twelfth of July. The St. Aloysius’ Philo-
demics, with their usual utter destitution of principle, pirated the scarlet colors of the Scientifics, in place of their ownmaeguta, so that when the Scientific representive came upon the field of view, he was precisely in the condition of Flora McFlimsey, having nothing whatever to wear. That was on Society. Day remember. On the Exhibition Day, the Scientific Association, being driven from its lawful flame-color, put' on the color of smoke, and appeared with badges of a neutral greyish tint, suggestive of smouldering wrath, the ghost in Hamlet, or moonbeams glinting through the dim recesses of a ruined cathedral. The Holy Angels wore the deep blue laid aside by the St. Cecilians, and neither the Choral Union, the Boat Club nor the Associated Alumni showed their colors on Society day.
Such, Mr. Editor, being a true and reliable report by one who sat there with a pencil, and marked the programme as the colors appeared, it remains to be decided whether the societies will keep their old colors or change again. Do let us have consistency:—let the colors mean something. The St. Cecilians rose, of course—they are a rising society. The Thespians bine—they are always blowing, you know. And the Scientifics deep red—deep reading is necessary to qualify them for that Association As for the Holy Angels, they should be always in violet, and finally, the Columbians should wear purple, because their purp’ll lick anything of the same calibre in the place.
Yours,	Spectrum. ,
—A friendly game of baseball between the Star of the East and Juanita B. B. C., on the grounds of the latter, on the 23d inst., resulted in favor of the Juanita’s by the following
Score:
JUANITAS.
Culliton, lb...........
Logan, s. s............
Campbell, e. f.........
Seibert, c.............
Busch, 2 b.............
Lyons, r. f............
Crummey,l. f...........
O’Brien, p.....■.......
Graves, 3 b............
Total...............
STAB OF THE EAST.
B. O.
Marks, s. s........... Caren, c.f............ Monahan, r.f.......... Soule, 3 b.................. Devoto, c............. Watson, 1. f.......... Ratigan, 2 b..........;.
Dougherty, lb......... Ryan, p...............
Total.
1027
INNINGS.
Umpire—F. Frazee of the Excelsiors. Scorers—J. M. Grace, and T. Hansard. Time of Game—1.30.
—On the 26th inst., the last of the series between the Star of the East and Excelsior Clubs, for Championship, resulted as follows:	.
STAB OF THE EAST.
O. B. B .H.
EXCELSIORS.
o. B. B.H.
Marks, s. s.........
Lonstorf, lb........
Monahan, r. f.......
Soule, 3 b..........
Devoto, c...........
Ratigan, 2 b........
Ball, c. f..........
Ryan, p.............
Watson, 1. f........
Total...........
Ill
3 10
Hayes, c.... Minton, lb.. Perea, 3 b.... Murphy, 2 b. Downey, 1. f. Gross, s.s.... Kelly, l.f.... Piliiod, c. f., Frazee, p.....
Total....
0 0
1 1 0 0
1 1
2
6
Passed Balls—Hayes, 7; Devoto, 7; Marks, 2.
Umpire—T. McNamara.
Scorers—T. Hansard and H. W. Quan.
Time of Game—2 hours, 30 minutes.
542
THE SCHOLASTIC.
SAINT MANY’S ACADEMY.
, —The eloquent instruction at Loreto, on Monday, the 25th inst., •will not soon be forgotten.
—On Tuesday, 26th, a very spirited historical competition took place in the Graduating Class.
—The explanations, preparatory to profiting hy the visit to the notable objects of artistic interest contemplated for, Thursday next, at Notre Dame, and which were given on Sunday evening, were most important as well as interesting. •
—The following are the names of the Children of Mary received on the Feast of Pentecost: Misses Riley, Dunbar, Maigrey, Moran, F. and A. Dilger, and A. Byrnes. The aspirants accepted that day were the Misses Foote, York and Bosh.	. -
—Beautiful instructions have been given at the May devotions during the week, for which the young ladies present their thanks to Rev. Father Golovin, Rev. Father Toohey, Rev. Mr. Kelley, and St. Mary’s friend of “ auld lang syne,” Rev. P. P. Cooney. -	-
—On Sunday, at the Distribution of Points, three compositions were read—two from the First Senior Class, one entitled “0, Beauty ever ancient, ever new! ” the other, “Refinement a National Benefit.” Both were read by Miss Foote. The third was a translation from the French of M. Rio, by a member of the Second Senior Class, and was read by Miss Faxon. “ Giotto ” was the subject.
—On Thursday, the Children of Mary, by the kind invitation of Very Rev Father General, visited the church at Notre Dame. The Sanctuary Lamp, the new stained-glass windows, the new organ, entertained them, and the beautiful explanations made as each object was passed under review rendered the visit instructive in a high degree. The Children of Mary tender their most profound thanks to Very Rev. Father General.	. '
—The May Altars bear witness to the benignity of the last few days. It is impossible to say in words, why the flowers which spring up from mother earth are so much more pleasing as a whole than those grown in hot-beds and under glass. But they have the indescribable something, which win's the heart and makes us thank God for pleasant days. The bouquets are all marked by good are rangement. ’ Not too many flowers, which is apt to be the fault where nature is profuse with her gifts; but masses of vernal green, pleasant to the eye, and each flower put in with a right intuition, not at hap-hazard. So long as-ca’re is used in the arrangement of flowers, they reward this care to the eye, and will certainly win one from the altar they adorn.
ABT NOTES.
—A. great deal has been done this week, but nothing perfectly finished. Our notes next week will be interesting. Columbines have not’ come to be slighted; neither have the vines put forth their daintily tinted buds for leaf and flower to be overlooked. If you have never done so, gentle reader, examine for a moment the marvellous variety of colors on a single shoot of the vine at this present time.
A CABD.
—On Sunday morning, the 16th,—even, before we went to High Mass,—we had everything in grand order, -waiting to surprise our kind Prefect. How disappointed, then were we, upon reaching our cosy little room, to find that our Prefect was missing! After dinner, the door opened, and she came in. As soon as we saw her, little Ada, Angela and Edie Simpson appeared very anxious about something. Finally they appeared with a lovely little address, and Carrie and Mary Hughes carried the feast-letters. The address had been nicely arranged by the Misses Lizzie Ritchie and Marion Faxon—(many thanks for the same!) Oh! if you could only set it! We showed it to Father General, who said it was simply—grand; and then, after giving us his blessing, very kindly gave us recreation, while the Seniors and Juniors were at study. We went to our little play-house, and were greatly pleased and ■ surprised to find a lovely feast prepared for us, at
Mother Charles’ desire. The Juniors looked longingly in but this time it was our feast.
All the Minims—even our little “ Captain,” were as merry as merry could be, and sang to “ Music in the Air.” We can’t tell where these Italian tunes came from—that is a secret between Father General and ourselves.
The Minims of St. Maby’s.
TABLET OF HONOR.
Fob the Week Ending May 22.
SENI0B DEPABTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled:
Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, R. Green, J. Kearney, A. Smith, L. Dra-goo, G- Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair, M. Daily, A. Walsh, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady, S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, K. Morris, R. Canoil, M. Pritchard, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, A. Byrne, J. Pierce, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, K. Casey, M. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, C. Morgan, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham, D. Cavenor, S. Reising, 0. West, M. Anthony, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, D. Allen, E. Pierce, N. King, C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, L. Brownbridge, G. Hills, L. Schwass, M. Railton,' S. Swalley.	.
JUNIOR DEPABTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, E. Lange, B. Siler, B. Golsen, M. Ewing, M. Schultheis, A. Cullen, M. Reynolds, M. Hooper, N. McGrath, L. Kirchner, J. Brown, M. Hoffman, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson, L. Walsh, E. Lappin, J. Andrews, K. Hudson and M. Bell.
MINIM DEPABTMENT.
Misses N. Mann, A. Peak, C. and M. Hughes, E. Simp-; son, A. McGrath, C. Trull, R. Goldsberry and Y. Mier.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN FBENCH LESSONS.
1st Div., 1st Class—Misses J. Kearney, M. Walker.
2nd Div., 1st Class—Misses K. Joyce, F. Dilger, - J. Kreigh, S. Harris, M. Poquette, B. Wilson, A. Harris, N. McGrath.
1st Div., 2nd Class—Misses L. Ritchie, A. Lloyd, P. Gaynor, E. Haggerty, R. Canoil, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, G. Walton, B. Golesn.
Latin Class—Misses Smith, Green, McGuire, Foote, Joyce, York, Byrne, Cravens, Brady, Dougherty.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN FANCY WOBK.
Misses S. Reising, L. Bosch, S. Harris, H. Parks, A. Dilger, N. King, M. McKay, C. Woodward, E. Colwell, E. Lange, K. Hudson.	,
-	CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
H0N0BABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC. *
1st Class—Misses E. Quinlan, R. Spier, H. Foote, A. Smith.
2nd Drv.—Misses B. Spencer, R. Green.
2nd Class—Misses J. Kreigh, J. Nunning.
2nd Div.—Misses E. O’Connor, K. Hutchinson, J. Kearney, K. Greenleaf, M. Julius.
3rd Class—Misses B. Wilson, A. Harris, L. Wyman, S. Harris, A. Byrne.
2nd Drv.—Misses G. Wells, A. Dilger, L. Kirchner, M. Hutchinson, E. Dennehey, A. St. Clair, M. Craven, L. Henrotin, A. Koch, C, Morgan.
4tu Class—Misses J. Locke, A T. Clarke, H. Kraus, F. Wells, D. Cavenor, A. Duncan, E. Haggerty, J. Bennett.	■
2nd Drv.—Misses Jj. Hutchinson, M. A. Roberts,FL. McKinnon, M. Redfield; F. Dilger, M. McKay, B. Golsen, H. Russel, K. Joyce, C. West.	’
THE SCHOLASTIC.
543 -
5th Class—Misses A. O’Connor, A. Cullen, A. Allen, L. Johnson, M. Riley, M. Bryson, S. Reising, L. Ritchie, M. and. E. Thompson.
2nd Div.—Misses L. Gustine, C. Woodward, E. Lange.
6th Class—Misses S. Hble,H. Parks, T. Gaynor, M. O’Connor, B. and M. Siler, S. Swalley, N. McAuliffe, A. Smith, A. McGrath, N. McGrath, J. Morris.
2nd Drv., 6th Class—Misses E. Simpson, M. Gaynor. L. Ryan, R. Neteler, S. Edes.
7th Class—Misses E. Edes, M. Anthony, E. York, M. Brady, M. Daily, J. Brown, E. Colwell. •
8th Class—Misses K. Hudson, A. Ewing, M. Bell.
9th Class—Misses C. and M. Hughes, R. Goldsberry.
10th Class—Misses M. Hoffman, M. Derby, Y. Mier, A. Peak, 0. Trull.
Harp—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Wicker, M. Walker.
The Examination of the Theoretical Music Classes commenced on the 22d inst. The notes given in these classes bear on the practical part, which will be examined very soon. We anticipate the result of the year shall prove diligence, . and consequently satisfaction to teachers and pupils.	. ■
A Day-Dream.
Once more in his circling course has Time brought us around to that period of the year fraught with both pleasure and sorrow to the student. Pleasure as he thinks of - the laurels to be won, of the knowledge gained, of the friends who will press around him, all eager to be foremost in congratulating him; and lastly, but not least, of his loved and loving parents, whose faces will kindle with pardonable pride as they look on their boy and mentally bless him o’er and o’er. He sees his father’s pleased and approving look; he hears his mother’s gentle voice whispering her mingled love and praise into his attentive ear. See these various scenes crowd upon his mind; they reach the inmost recesses of his heart and expand it with noble aspirations ; they act as a new incentive to urge him on in the acquirement of that knowledge which is to be of such incalculable service to him whilst battling the rough breakers of the stormy sea of adversity which he must sooner or later encounter. His very soul is overflowing with happiness ; it beams forth in his countenance, it is perceptible in his voice, it is apparent to all. He hears the “ still small voice” of approving conscience whispering of time well spent and advantages improved.	'
Then the scene shifts; thoughts of the many happy hours spent in the company of his schoolday friends, never perhaps to be again enjoyed, flit through his brain; thoughts of the parting so soon to come, when he shall bid adieu to his Alma mater, to the noble men who have guided his wandering steps through intricate paths to the highway of learning, to his many schoolmates. He is about to bid adieu to his particular chum, who has been to him as a brother, who has so long filled the place of absent friends in his heart. Hand is clasped in hand for a final adieu; their eyes meet, perhaps for the last time; not a word is spoken, but oh! how well is their mutual esteem and affection expressed by the eloquence of those looks! - At last, with a murmured “ God bless you,” they part.
Our student awakes from these dreamy thoughts to find himself still among his friends, in the sheltering precincts of his Alma mater, and with yet unfinished duties crowding upon him. But his dream encourages him; and let us hope that, unlike dreams in general, it will “come true.” He has yet the Examination to encounter before he can fully enjoy the happiness of his dream. Let him gird himself for the encounter, go through it confidently and manfully, and there can be no doubt of his success. .
How many of us, fellow-students, can say, “lam satisfied I have done my duty; I have employed my time to advantage ” ? How many of us are ready to undergo that terrible bugbear to lazy students, the Examination? Those that are not, let them pull up! there is still a little time left; employ it well, and trust to time and justice to reward you.
Oneiropolos.
—The New York World wants to know if a man with a cough is not a hackman.
NATIONAL HOTEL ■
Sontli Bend, Indiana
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Hailway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ 'Wagon Works.
rTTHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their JL stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary's can he procured at the Hotel.
Grand Organ Concert!
FOUR O’CLOCK P. M., STTTKDJYK', CTCnSTE Q, 1875. ’ ' AJo Notre Dame, Indiana.	-
Admission...".
Reserved Seats
Fifty Cents.
One Dollar.
This Sacred Concert will be held on the occasion of the sol-.emu opening of the magnificent new Organ lately erected in the new Church. Visitors will have a fair chance to examine at leisure the rare beauties of the new edifice, its admirable Stained Glass "Windows (seven in number), and the first of the Stations of the Cross, painted by Prof. L. Gregori.
The managers of the railroad have kindly consented to run a special train between Niles and South Bend at 3 p. m.andT p.m.
The proceeds of the Concert will go to pay for the new instrument, which cost -86,000.
' STkMTTZEL EKG-EL,
THE CLOTHIER,
Invites your attention to his	.
Merchant Tailoring Establishment,
INo. 90 Aricliig’tm Street,
SOUTH EEKTIX INDIANA. '
Only First Class Work Made Up
, At Very Reasonable Prices.
Garments Warranted in all Respects.
EEADY-MADE CLOTHING
In Fine Selection, Very Cheap. ■
If Desired, Will Bring Samples and
Take Measures at the College.
"We keep constantly on hand a full line of -GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS. .
—There -is nothing more depressing to a thermometer than cold weather.	-	. A
544
THE SCHOLASTIC.
pALMER & Vanwinkle, Dealers in
CO^FEGTIOjSTERIES, Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf p DUBAIL,
* BABBER AND HAIRDRESSER, 71 Washington St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
.4 ,	,
pR. C. H. MIDDLETON,	.
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
'	oat-tf
JgDWARD BUYSEE,	'
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana, liepairing promptly done, and all ■work warranted. J^-tf A -HAN AUER, .
* Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, . South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in READY-MADE CLOTHING-, GENTS’ BURNISHING GOODS, '	STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.
o24-tf
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Con. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
Over Coonley’s Drug Store, '	South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be 'at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which, he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
o24-tf
E. MAYR,
. JRELAND & SON,	.
PROPRIETORS of	'
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
No. 51 MICHIGAN St., -	SOUTH BEND, IND.,
(Opposite the Dwight House).	•
---o--
HACK JLIPUE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	%o24-2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
---0--
DROP IN AT
“THE KIKE CENT STORE!”
AND
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Stbeet, - South Bend, Indiana. Jgo24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
'll 4ESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the JlVL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling publie may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre De-me and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during tb eir stay,
JERRY KNIGHT, CAPTAIN MILLS, f Propnetors.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
-----------o-
M. LIVINGSTON & 00?,
94 Micliigan St., Sontli Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock o FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURNISHING G-OODS,
OUK stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves. Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clotiling is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Clotlis, Cassi-meres and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o34-tf.
ICECREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to	'
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
99 MAIN STREET, - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Milligan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old English, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
decl-^tf.
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!
ESF** Fresh Candies Made Daily.
Mo24-tf