Ioffe Dame 5 Scholastic

Dlsce quasi semper vlctums ; vivo quasi eras mori tarns.
Volume XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, AUGUST 27, 1881.
Number 1.
Judiciary.
Delivered by Geo. E. Clakke (Law), ’81, Tuesday Evening, June, 21st.
From the records of the earliest date, we learn that the father of the family acted the part of the judge; but as families multiplied, a common arbiter was chosen to decide the questions that might be referred to him. Later on, the Jewish Sanhedrim, the council of the thirty judges in Egypt, the Amphictyonic Council in Greece, the Areopagus in Athens, the Ephori at Sparta, and the Censors at Rome, sat in decision upon the affairs of their contemporaries, and left the principles that they deduced to be handed down to succeeding generations.
To day we are the citizens of a representative government born during terrible strife, but now, thanks to Providence, radiating happiness and prosperity. It has three corradial branches, the Executive, L°gislative, and Judiciary departments, all distinct in province and membership, but blending in union and majestic sublimity upon that unshaken foundation, the Constitution of the United S’ates. Each has its appropriate functions; each works within defined limits; but all tend to national stability. The Judiciary department, since its infancy, has been recognized for the intellectual ability and stern integrity of its members. Possessing the power and the means to check usurpation and enforce the execution of its judgments, it is the champion of justice, and the supreme sovereign of the people; interpreting the meaning and operation of the laws, it suppresses the clash of statutes, and reconciles truth to its most violent opponents; cognizant of its duties, it is fearless in its adjudication, and silences those who dare to controvert authority. Completely independent of the other departments, and endowed with the fortitude of declaration, it hesitates not, but steps into the conflict of heated passion, and indiscriminately deals the most telling blows; when it is dethroned, imbecility or usurpation will reign; but when supreme, personal security and private property are free from encroachment. The government that exists without it tends not to the happiness of the people, but to the gratification of the tyrant, at whose pleasure laws are made and enforced. The Judiciary department is the mighty custodian of the Constitution, to whose dictates the highest official as well as the humblest cottager must bow. The Legislature meets and enacts laws, but it belongs to the Judiciary to recognize them. What peril must ensue, should our legislative executives be without boards absolute in their powers! What wrongs might we not expect, were we wholly at the mercy of the man whom we elect to the chief magistracy, or of those whom we call our representatives ?
Having been taught the susceptibility of legislative bodies to corruption, and, as students of the decline and fall, having ' learned the terrible deeds of execution when unchecked and unrestrained, were our Government deficient in the Judiciary department, which is the well-spring of justice, we should shudder for posterity. Fluctuationsand alternate changes would soon engulf the citizen, until he would become subject to and eventually feel the weight of the lash. We would be tossed about by the whims of the . mighty, and finally plunged into grovelling subserviency; we would be as an imposing structure whose walls fall while building, burying beneath them the workmen. To the people, then—to the laborer, to the workman, to the mechanic, to the merchant, and to the professional man—the Judiciary is the staunchest friend, battling for them, for you, and for your children who are to succeed you. It is the bulwark of God-given boons; it wards off the blows of the would be despot; it strikes down the fanatic, the libertine, or the red-handed revolutionist,—it stems the torrent of greediness and avarice, while it strengthens those who are oppressed and cry for help. It subverts the schemes of unprincipled men, while to the workman it says: “ Thy cabin is thy castle ”; it abhors mad fanaticism and hollow cant, itself being the repository of sound sense and solid wisdom. An embodiment of laws whose aim is “ to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity,” with what vigilance, with what jealousy does not the Judiciary listen to its calls and proclaim its mandates? Amid the conflicts of power and of principles, when all that insidious ingenuity can suggest or devise is brought into action to play with steady fire upon this breastwork of our indivisible rights, how calmly and placidly, how quietly and unruffled does the Judiciary act? Independent and conclusive in its decisions, the oracle of justice and moderation, it gives its answer, and the strife must cease. Government is not for the prosperity of the few and the misery of the many, but for the happiness of all. For the attainment of this, the Judiciary was established. The just and vigorous investigation and punishment of every species of fraud and violence, and the exercise of the power to compel every man to the punctual performance of his obligations; this is the province of the Judiciary, and these are grave duties; not conducive to popularity, not palatable to all, they do not meet the approval of all contending parties ; but to him whose love of justice and patriotism is sacrificing, the Judiciary department offers the most ennobling anticipations. The past furnishes many instances in which legislatures have made themselves the whole people; ^vhere pride, party principles, and ambition for
A	SCHOLASTIC.
2 '.: •. • «
public dijfipqtfgix have j&gittgn indo vatkjns. lh$t 3i^>‘ Undone the "wisest! systems of government J ‘frfadn ‘executives were feeble, and sat silently looking on at the destruction of their nation; while, on the other hand, yielding to lower passions, and guided by high-handed wicked combinations, they have discarded reason and law, and laid heavilj^jn those committed to their charge the iron yoke of tyranny. But our Judiciary says: “Apprehend no such dangers; pride, jealousy and vanity, that have enervated nations, I hold in check.” It says: “ Representatives are constrained to make good laws; and, dare they forget, I shall meet them with relentless punishment. Lethargy and dilatoriness must not exist where I am, but vigor and expedition must be ever triumphant; the deliberate sense of the people must govern, not the wild enthusiasm of a few.” Seated on a throne of complete independence, breathing an untainted atmosphere, our Judiciary says: “ Fear not that the executive will merge into a dictation, or the power of representatives into the sway of dominion. The stability of a free government is its aim; and that it may achieve this end, that the current of justice may flow with purity and without interruption, unswerving probity and earnestness, political wisdom, and sincere patriotism must be employed in the nation’s interests.”
The judicial power, says, Art. Ill, Section 1st, of the Constitution of the United States, shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish, “ extending to both law and equity cases affecting treaties, ambassadorships; cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; cases in which the United States is a party, cases between two or more States, cases between a State and citizens of another State, between citizens of different States; cases between citizens of the same State, between a State, or the citizens thereof,Jand foreign States or subjects.” What weighty duties ! When we foresee and revolve these prerogatives in our minds, are we not almost confounded with the heavy responsibility and almost absolute power of the Judiciary department? What invaluable rightshave they in hand! Kights bought by the sacrifices of heroes, bought by the slaughter of millions of men on fields red with blood, amid fire and smoke, amid shot and shell; rights nearest and dearest; our homes, our firesides, and our altars are in its hands; a country rich in beds of coal and iron, in productive fields, unsurpassed in commercial advantages, in manufacturing facilities, beautiful with wide-spreading prairies, majestic rivers and picturesque woodlands; the inventive genius of its inhabitants, yourselves, your sons and your daughters; what you possess, what you have, all, all are in their keeping. Oh, God! will they betray the trust ? Are we to transmit liberty to our children, or are they to be tied to the triumphal car of a foreign oppressor ? How shall we guard against this? where shall we place the barrier ? when shall we begin to protect the myriads yet unborn? The answer is, Begin with the legal profession. The bench and the bar are coordinate terms, and mutually dependent upon one another. The attorney of to-day is the stern and dignified judge of to-morrow. He who labors to secure justice to-day deals it out to-morrow. The student of the law of to-day is its exponent and interpreter to-morrow. So, by attending to the training of the bar, we can ensure justice from the bench. By seeing that candidates for the legal profession are learned in the law and its cognate branches—and, above all, and paramount to all, that they are moral men, conscientious and disinter
ested in action—we may be confident that liberty will still continue to be the inviolable right of the American people.
It is a notable and well-known fact that no two cases of litigation are alike. Among the countless number that meet the judicial eye, no two are parallel; each embodies a pointdifferent from the rest, and assuredly the principles that govern the different cases are varied; hence the legal learning of the judge must be great. Not content with what has ;emanated from Magna Charta, he must go back and peer into that time whereof “ the mind of man runneth not to contrary.” Principles born in the recesses i of antiquity, the wisdom of the Justinian Code, the laws embraced in the Domesday book, in Canon Law, in the Code Napoleon, and the volumes that have since been written; the legislative enactments; in a word, the lex non scripta and the lex scripta must influence and contribute towards his judgments. Nor can these suffice; the judge must know the decisions of his predecessors, for from our judges, epitomized under the title of reports, we have read some of the most authentic and practical authority. Of these, Edmund Burke says that jurisprudence has no better founda-	j
tion than in the maxims, rules, principles and judicial	|
series of decisions contained in the notes, taken from time to	j
time and published under the sanction of the j udges. Thus	I
when we view the wide and deep study that the judge	|
must undergo to prepare himself for the onerous duties and	;
weighty responsibilities that his profession will impose on	'
him, we cannot wonder that his is the seat of honor, and	;
he the recipient of public esteem and confidence. Why should we not vie with each other in eulogy of him when | we note the admirable working of the State and Federal ; Benches! The peculiar fitness of each for its appropriate j duties, the comprehensive principles that both lay down, j and the almost perfect harmony that has prevailed from j their inauguration, excite the highest feelings of respect I and applause. Year after year their influence has permeated every corner of our Union; side by side the jurisdic. tion of each has been felt; while hand in hand and shoulder to shoulder they have worked in love and concord) and assisted in placing America in the van of nations.
Upon the State Bench we find some of the greatest minds that have ever adorned any profession, ornaments of human nature, inexhaustible in vigor and unsurpassed in intellectual powers. At the establishment of a Supreme Court we must express the acme of our approbation. In the family, the children appeal to the parent; so, too, in our family of State tribunals each looks up to the Supreme Federal Bench for a decisive and conclusive answer. The necessity of our Supreme Court is obvious; our different State Benches might establish rules contradictory and conflicting in their use and application; inferior courts might trespass upon the legal territory of others. By whom, then, is the right in such cases to be determined ? Is it not by the establishment of a court higher than all,— a court to whom all must bow in submission,—one of common appellant jurisdiction, whose decision is final and incontrovertible ; and this is our Supreme Court, swaying the mightiest in the land, swaying 50 millions of people, 40 States, and holding them upon one broad platform—the Constitution of the United Slates. Its dignity and majesty radiates not only over this continent, but passes into eastern worlds. The learning and wisdom of its members have placed it above the highest judicature in the world. Men of extraordinary intellects, the compeers of any mind to whom the jurisprudence of the world will ever be indebted, haye
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	3
set one over our Federal Bench to administer justice to those who bowed at its shrine. The legal knowledge and spotless integrity of our Supreme Court stop not with us, ■but have crossed the waters, and have been cited as authority in intricate cases. Our books can be found in the law library of the British Museum, the Middle and Inner Temple, Clifford’s Temple and the Bodleian, at Trinity, and the law courts of Dublin, at any of the courts in France, or the State law library at Boulogne.
Should not this augment our respect for the tribunal that has won for us such prosperity and reputation? Does not the love of country swell within us at the names of Jay, Story, Chase, Marshall, and Taney ? Men of enviable reputation, upon whose characters the laurel ever retains its verdure! Citizens of America and members of the Judiciary department, your memory is immortal, and may those who succeed you hold you up for examples of duty!
Science, the Motive Power of the Age.
Delivered by G. F. Sugg (of the Staff), Class of ’81, Tuesday Evening, June 21st.
Almost every age of human history has either given to itself or received from posterity some epithet, marking, whether truly or fictitiously, its distinctive place in the records of the world; some epithet by which the characteristic mark or spirit of the age may be known. It would be easy to find and to apply many such epithets to the remarkable period in which our own lot is cast, abounding as it does in characteristics which distinguish it from any other age that has ever gone before. But there is one which has already been applied, one which we cannot doubt but that our own posterity will adopt, inasmuch as it affirms a fact equally obvious and certain; it is, that we are living in an age of transition—a period when changes deeply and permanently affecting the whole condition of mankind are occurring more rapidly and exten-■ sively than at any prior time in human history. The fact is one which lies on the very surface of all that we see in the world around us. No man of common understanding, even in the narrowest circle of observation, can fail to mark the continual shifting of things before him, reversing in many cases the maxims and usages which are the inheritance of centuries, and altering in a thousand ways the present conditions of material and social life. And it is of this material change and its cause that I mean to speak this evening. The philosopher who looks from a higher level and from a more distant horizon, discerns in these changes a wider and more lasting influence. From his exalted station he views the wonderful change in the material world, and wisely attributes it to the progress of science, which has placed new powers in the hands of man—powers transcending in their strangeness and grandeur the wildest fables and dreams of antiquity. He sees the march of discovery continually going on, new paths opened, new instruments and methods of research brought into action, and new laws evolved, connecting and combining the facts and phenomena which unceasingly accumulate around us.
Formerly a knowledge of the sciences was only desirable as an accomplishment, but this is no longer the case; for, in looking over scientific volumes, we are struck by the collateral evidence they afford to one interesting fact in the
present state of science; I mean the tendency, in all its branches, to assume a character of strict observation and ' experiment at the expense of all hypotheses, and even of moderate theoretical speculation. I think this circumstance worthy of notice, inasmuch as it is of value to the philosopher, not merely to note the progress of actual knowledge, but also to observe the machinery which the mind employs to this end, and the changes of method which are derived from the casual efforts of genius or labor, or from the more tardy effect of political and social institutions. The influence of Lord Bacon and of his illustrious contemporaries in Europe was not immediate, nor complete, in reforming the methods of physical inquiry. Time was necessary to change a system sanctioned alike by habit, by antiquity, and by the authority of ancient names. Accordingly it will be found that during the last two centuries there has been a progressive tendency to render science more severe in its experimental part and more entirely separate from all hypotheses, and that the reform with which this period began has continued to extend itself even to the time before us. Within the last one hundred years, a period more remarkable in the history of science than any other of equal duration, this tendency has been strengthened by the very circumstances of the splendor and variety of the discoveries which we owe to these strict experimental methods of research. We have found the instruments of inquiry multiply in our hands; and experiments have been fruitful, not only in direct results, but still further in disclosing new objects of pursuit and in providing new agents wherewith to reduce these into our power.
As I have already stated, one versed in the sciences is no longer looked upon merely as an accomplished and scholarly young man, but as a practical man. Why, then, should we allow the sciences to suffer neglect? It is indeed a strange, but undeniable fact, that the great majority of men walk on this beautiful earth of ours and live their more or less long lives without making any considerable use of the wonderful and all but divine gifts with which Almighty God has endowed them. They have understanding, and do not comprehend. Although all created things on, under, and above the earth were made for their use and improvement, they none the less disregard the mer ciful dispensations of divine Providence, and are content to live almost as so many blank forms whereon nothing is written, nothing is recorded, and which can receive no im. pression, whatever. Life under a thousand forms surrounds them, yet who is fully aware of the fact? Innumerable beauties appertaining to the inorganic world lie scattered in the utmost profusion and diversity in their daily path, yet who deigns to cast the most careless look at them? Why is it that they do not receive even a passing thought ? Why this strange and lamentable ignorance? Simply from the fact that most men do not make use of their senses and intellectual faculties, I will not say to the fullest extent, but scarcely to any degree. The whole of nature is to them a grand enigma, a sealed book. Men generally have that which is termed necessary knowledge; beyond that, there is the region marshy and swampy, where no light of intellectual fire ever penetrates—the sciences are entirely ignored. But where is the remedy ? The close habit of observation and the power of comparing are the two great masters in the study, the inexhaustible mines of ever-renewed pleasures and delight?, and also thg source of invaluable and abundant iq-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
formation. Let nature no longer be a sealed book for <,such a large proportion of the rational creatures of God.
We should roam freely and frequently over the three great kingdoms of created nature, study attentively the objects which we meet, and we may rest assured that, having become perfect masters of the sciences, we will be amply compensated if we make practical use of our knowledge, in the good we will have accomplished for our own generation and for generations yet unborn.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The Vatican Library contains 105,000 printed books and 25,000 manuscripts.
—The remains of Lady Blanche Murphy will be sent to England for interment by the side of her mother’s remains in the family vault at Exon.
—William Henry Hurlburt, the edit'»r of the New York World, is a bachelor, and lives in apartments luxuriously fitted with everything that taste can suggest and cash secure.
—Clovernook, the former home of A'-ice and Phoebe Cary, near Cincinnati, has been purchased by Alexander Swift, who will preserve the homestead and dedicate a memorial to the dead poets.
—The Musical Record, (Boston, Mass..) says: The musical features of the program of the 26 Annual Commencement Exercises of St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind., were worthy of special praise.” So say all who were present.
—Comparing British with American and other foreign work at the London Exhibition of Painters-Etchers, the Spectator sums up -. “ If the truth must be told, the majority of the British work is inferior both in method and imagination.”
—The death of Mgr. de Segur, author of many very popular religious works, is announced in the newspapers. Mgr. de Segur was Archbishop of Amie.ns For some years he had to dictate the matter of his books, on account of loss of sight.
—Bret Harte has worn his reputation threadbare in some places, and has quite worn it out in others, He is one of the many examples in recent years of a man of genius damaged by popularity, and by the constant call made upon him to write something when he has nothing new to write.
—The bleak and remote farm of Craigen Puttock, Dum-frieshire, where for six years Carlyle lived in deep seclusion with his wife (and which he has now bequeathed to Edinburgh University), came to him from her. ifrs. Carlyle, nee Welsh, was a descendant of John Knox, and unlike Knox, and unlike Carlyle, a most amiable person.
—Gibbon took twenty years to write “ The Decline of the Roman Empire.” Horace Greeley, on the other hand, wrote his “American Conflict” in three years. Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes has done nothing in his earlier brilliant vein for years. It is probable that he will never be allowed to cease writing anniversary and occasional verses.
—The “ American Elocutionist and Dramatic Reader,” compiled by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, and published by J. H. Butler & Co., Philadelphia, Pa., has gone through three several editions, and the third edition, emended and enlarged, has nearly reached the end of its third edition. A large fourth edition is now in press, and will be ready in September.
—Sister M. F. Clare Cusack, known as the Nun of Kenmare, is a convert to Catholicity. She is a sister of Sir Ralph Cusack of the British Board of Trade. Her books have been “ boycotted ” by the British Government and her life has been threatened more than once for her advocacy of the Irish cause. This lady, so big and bold in print, is a handsome, retiring person of rather small stature.
—The smallest book in the world is said to be an 128 mo. edition of Dante’s “Divina. Commedia,” printed at Padua in
1878, and recently offered for sale in Paris. It forms a volume of five hundred pages, which is almost exactly two inches high and one and three-eighths inches broad. Only one thousand copies have been printed, and the type has been destroyed.— Paper World.
These “smallest books in the world” are like Washington’s last darkeys, there seem to be a large number of them.
—“Excelsior; or, Lessons in Politeness and Etiquette,” for young gentlemen and ladies,—the first, for gentlemen, being written by Prof. T. E. Howatd, of the Uuiversitj' of Notre Dame; the second, for ladies, by Miss R. V. Roberts—has met with marked success, and has gone through several editions since its first appearance. It is publishtd by John B. Piet, of Baltimore. Prof. Howard is also the author of a series of books for the young, which appeared under the nom deplume of “ Uncle Edward.”
—A correspondent writes entreating us to conceal his name, but to let him know “ what under the sun the ‘ agnosticism and the agnostics,’ ” so often mentioned in the debates of the Pan-Presbyterian Council in Philadelphia, really may be. Our correspondent need not be ashamed of his query. Prof. Huxley claims to have been the first to apply these terms, formerly used to designate a branch of the Donatists of early times, to the doctrines and the “ doctrinaries ” now so designated. Agnostics are persons who refuse either to affirm, or deny, or accept upon authority the doctrine of the existence of a God, the immortality of the soul, and, in general, anything in the theology, psychology or metaphysics the existence of which cannot be scientifically proved or disproved. They are scientifically “ knownothings ” in regard to such matters, and, since they will neither affirm nor deny, they are, or should be, indifferent to them. In practice, however, these antibelievers and anti-infidels are apt to be as hot as if they were baptized Christians or rank heathen.
[Agnosticism and agnostics are defined substantially as above in the supplement to the latest edition of Webster’s Dictionary.]—New York World.
—Mr. G. Washington Moon, author of “ The Dean’s English,” writing in Public Opinion, complains of grammatical errors in the Revised Version. He remarks:— “ One passage is as follows—‘ Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust doth consume ’ (Matt. vi. 19.) . . . The revisionists should have said, ‘ Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust consume;’ not ‘doth consume,’ for that is saying ‘ they doth ’ ! . . . In Matt, xxvii. 56,1 read, ‘Among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee; ’ i. e., those three was among them! This is culpable carelessness; for in the parallel passage in Mark xv. 40, it is said, ‘ Among whom were both Mary Magdalene, and Mary the Mother of James the Less, and of Joses and Salome.’ If two Marys are plural, how can three Marys be singular? I was going to say that it is a singular error, but unfortunately it is not so, for there are others like it. See Acts xvii. 34, where it is said, ‘ Among whom also was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others.’ In Mark iii. 33, I read, ‘ Who is my mother and my brethren ? ’ Who is they! Carelessness again; for the parallel passage in Matt, xii, 48, gives the inquiry grammatically, thus—' who is my mother ? and who are my brethren ? ’ ”—Baptist Weekly.
—A charming story is told by a contemporary of the Abbe Liszt, who had just been receiving fresh distinctions. A young pianist was giving concerts in the provinces of Germany, and to add to her renown, she announced herself as a pupil of the celebrated musician. Arriving at a small town she advertised a concert in the usual way, but what was her horror when she saw on the list of arrivals at the hotel the name of “ M. l’Abbe Liszt! ” Knowing that her deception would be exposed, she went to the Abbe himself, and pale and trembling threw herself at his feet and implored his forgiveness, telling him the history of her struggling life. “ Come, come, come,” said the great artist, helping her to rise, “ we shall see what we can do. Here is a piano. Let me hear a piece intended for the concert to-morrow.” She obeyed, and played at first timidly, then with all the enthusiasm of reviving hope. The Mastro stood near her, gave her spine advice, suggested
Mi

'A /
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5
some improvements, and, when she had finished her piece, said most kindly: “ Now, my child, I have given you a music lesson. You are a pupil of Liszt.” Before she could recover herself sufficiently to utter a word of acknowledgement, he added: “ Are the programmes printed ? ” “ Not yet, sir.” “Then let them add to your programme that you will he assisted by your master, and that the last piece will be played by the AbbS Liszt.” Those who know the Abbe’s face will readily believe this idyllic little episode; for if ever there were features on which benevolence had stamped itself, they were his.
Scientific Notes.
—L'Electricite states that M. Dohrn has introduced the telephone in connection with his scientific explorations of the bed of the Bay of Naples. By its use the diver and the boatman overhead are able to communicate with each ,	other quickly and intelligibly.
—A French scientist claims that he has succeeded in re,	versing the result obtained by Prof. Bell in producing
1	light from sound. He has described an experiment to the
,	French Academy, by which, he contends, a transformation
‘	of sound into light is produced.
—Prof. Dolbeare, of Tuft’s College, one of the original inventors of the telephone, whose rights were bought by ,	the Western Union Telegraph Company, has now in-
vented an entirely new telephone, through which, it is claimed, conversations can be heard over any length of j	wire.
,	—An inventor in Hartford, Conn., has patented a belt,
which is made of iron wire, the selvages being brass and copper. The weft is of cotton, several threads being woven in without being twisted together. A double fabric is made, between which, or inside of which, a number of ?	single heavier wires are enclosed to take the tensile strain
}	of the belt.
|	—A remarkable feat of telegraphy was performed on
,	May 20th for the benefit of the Chicago press. The first
1	instalment of the revised New Testament, filling 33 col-
umns of a morning newspaper, and comprising 28 chapters
■	of St. Mathew, 16 of St. Mark, 7 of St. Luke, and 5 of
St. John, was telegraphed in 83,745 words from New York to Chicago by the Western Union line, on 21 wires. Seven hours sufficed for transmission.
।	—Bey. Father William, a Dominican missionary, now
sojourning among the Digger Indians, among other inter-
1	esting facts relative to Indian manners and customs, says
(that for all kinds of sores and cancers the Indians use suction as a means of cure. “ I saw one case,” he says, “ where the doctor cut open a cancer on a man’s jaw with a piece of broken bottle and sucked the blood out of it. The par	tient got better, and seemed to suffer no Inconvenience
|	from it.”
—According to M. Tr&ve, the flame of a lamp appears brighter, and a vertical shaft, a post, or mast is seen more distinctly through a vertical than through a horizontal slit, while a house, a landscape, or the disc of the sun or moon is perceived more clearly through a horizontal slit. He finds similar differences in photographs, according as the light passes from the object to the plate through a verti-!	cal or a horizontal slit, and ascribes the results to the ac-
tion of diffused light.
—Charcoal, laid flat, while cold, on a burn, causes the pain to abate immediately; by leaving it on for an hour, the burn seems almost healed, when it is superficial. And charcoal is valuable for many other purposes. Tainted meat surrounded with it, is sweetened; strewn over decomposed pelts, or over dead animals, it.prevents an unpleasant odor. Foul water is purified by it. It is a great disenfectant, and sweetens the air if placed in trays around apartments. It is so very porous in its “minute interior” it absorbs and condenses gases most rapidly. One cubic inch of charcoal will absorb nearly one hundred of gaseous ammonia Charcoal forms an unrivalled poultice for malignant wounds and sores, often corroding away dead flesh, reducing it one quarter in six hours. Incases of what we call proud flesff, it is invaluable. It
gives no disagreeable odor, corrodes no metal, hurts no texture, injures no color, is a simple, safe sweetener and disenfectant. A teaspoonful of charcoal in half a glass of water often relieves the distended stomach, pressing against the nerves, which extend from the stomach to the head.
—Only the softest material and .the gentlest pressure should be used in cleaning the ear. In a recent clinical lecture Dr. Wilson gives, in popular form, some very useful and practical information touching the removal of ear-wax. If the ticking of a watch can be heard at the distance of twenty-eight inches, the hearing is good. Each, ear should be tested separately. Noises in the head, sometimes ringing, frequently are due to hardened wax in the ear. Sudden deafness is sometimes caused as follows: A small mass of wax, from ill-health or uncleanliness, becomes hard. A continued secretion of wax then blocks up the ear tube still more. An injudicious attempt is then made to remove the wax, by introducing, perhaps, a match end, a pin-head, or penholder, which, instead of removing, pushes down the wax and packs it against the tympanum ; or by sudden draught or the act of swallowing, the wax is suddenly pressed upon the membrane, and loss of hearing immediately ensues, because the membrane can no longer vibrate. The removal of the wax is in some cases, especially those of longer standing, somewhat difficult; but with gentle treatment and patience may be finally accomplished and the hearing fully restored. The best means for removing wax, when not badly compacted, are: half a drachm of sodium carbonate dissolved in an ounce of water, applied lightly, by means of a bit of absorbent cotton or sponge attached to a suitable handle. When the wax is much compacted it may be softened by means of water, quite warm, and a syringe. On account of the danger of cotton or other substance being pressed into the ear, a celebrated physician once said that nothing smaller than one’s fist should be put into the ear.
—Scientific American.
Exchanges.
[Among a number of notes from the late exchange editor of the Scholastic, in type for the last number of the paper, but crowded out, we think the following still retain sufficient interest to justify their publication.]
—We lately discovered a copy of The Dartmouth. for May the 6th, which had been sent to the Scholastic with a request to exchange, but which by some mishap had been laid aside with some papers that had been read. We regret this, as judging from the matter in the number before us, The Dartmouth would have been a most welcome exchange. The poetry, “When I Survey the Wondrous Cross,” rendered into Latin by John Ordronaux, is very good; and a sketch of “ John Boyle O’Reilly,” by Prof.Ed-ward R. Ruggles, is one of the best and most appreciative biographical sketches of that gentleman that we have seen. We are an admirer of the patriotic poet-editor of The Pilot, and regret that space does not permit us to reproduce the article entire, as it is well worth reading. The Dartmouth possesses an ably-managed exchange department.
—The Georgetown GoUege Journal publishes no valedictory. The June number of the paper is qualified to make such a favorable impression that its reappearance in September will be anxiously looked for. “Candor es. Courtesy ” and “ De Quibusdam Rebus ” are spicily written articles. “Miriam” has been giving things a wholesale stirring up. An editorial vindicates the privileges of the time-honored classical mental training against the encroachments of scientific and other special studies. The editor thinks that “ in many cases the establishment of ‘ scientific schools’ in the leading universities of these conn-, tries must be held accountable for the marked declination of education toward the deprecated extreme.” In this he evidently mistakes the cause for the effect; the declination , should, we think, be attributed rather to the unwholesome state of the public mind, which in. a measure caused the unnatural expansion of the scientific and other special schools in universities, than to the special schools, which
6
T^HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
are the effect of a pre-existing cause. He further states that
“The tide that has been setting in upon the shallows of scientific studies is on the ebb, seeking the broad deep ocean of liberal Catholic mind development and mind-storing, and the first receding wave has struck against Dartmouth College. This famous institution is passing through a crisis that threatens its dissolution. The president, Dr. 8. C. Bartlett, is a man of strong will, and is thoroughly convinced that ‘special courses’ have encroached to an intolerable extent upon the broad old-fashioned plan of education, in which classics, literature and the liberal arts generally took precedence, an encroachment which has laid its Briarean grip upon the years usually devoted by collegians to study, upon endowments and foundations, and most of all upon the esteem of the erring educational world. It is charged that from his hostility to special instruction, he has embarrassed the professors in the work of their special schools; the charge has been taken up by the Alumni in New York, New England, and other parts of the country, and the outcry against the position assumed by the president would drive a less tenacious man from the stand ' taken. But Dr. Bartlett is not a man to yield to outside clamor, and since his views are true and must eventually prevail, we trust that he will not be forced to abandon them, nor compelled to quit the contest which he has begun.”
—Rouge et Noir (Trinity College, Toronto,) publishes the following communication in its June number:
“ To the Editors of Rouge et Noir.
“ Dear Sirs:—Will you kindly allow me through your columns to correct an error which appeared in the exchange column of one of the best papers upon your file. The Notre Dame Scholastic (May 14) has a quotation taken, says the editor, from a book written by a Protestant clergyman, Rev. W. A. Johnston, entitled ‘ Vox Populi aut Dei.’ This is a mistake. It is an open secret that the book, though published anonymously, was written by a layman in the Anglican Diocese of Niagara.
“Truly yours,
“ Theolog.”
We most cheerfully give place to this communication. The item in question was published, as we gave it, in the newspapers; as “Theolog” is acquainted with the author of “ Vox Populi aut Dei,” and knows him to be a layman, we yield the point in his favor. The June number of Rouge et Noir is an excellent one. “The Nun’s Funeral,” by R. T. Nichol, is a poem full of beautiful Catholic sentiment, and is written in a manner not unworthy of a subject that has engaged poetic minds of the highest order, both in the Church and outside of^it. A portrait of Trinity’s first and retiring Provost,' Mr. Whittaker, is given in this number, with a sketch of his life and labors by Rev. C. E. Thomson, M. A. “ Egypt from a Railway Train,” by G. A. Mackenzie, M. A., gives some interesting pages from a note-book of travel. The editorial matter is up to the usual high mark of Rouge et Noir, and the exchange notes are pari passu. Our Canadian contemporary has a remarkably able exchange editor, and we are glad to know that he appreciates our paper as highly as the following criticism would indicate:
“ Scholastic and Detroit Every Saturday continue to come as regularly as clockwork, with perhaps no equals, certainly no superiors, the one as a weekly college paper, the other as a weekly society and art paper. We would direct Scholastic’s attention to Theolog’s letter on another page.”
Rouge et Noir is edited by gentlemen and scholars, and their good opinion is highly appreciated by the editors of the Scholastic, who take pleasure in paying a merited compliment in return.
—The Lawrence, Mass., High School Bulletin says; “The Notre Dame Scholastic takes the first rank among our exchanges for amount of literary labor.” Well, that is appreciative, certainly. The astute critic of the Bulletin further says: “ We are glad to see that the editors are interested in phonography, although we prefer tachygraphy.” If tachygraphy, as the critic of the Bulletin understands it,— for Lindsley’s is the only system now known by the name of tachygraphy,—if Lindsley’s tachygraphy is not phonography, we should like to know what it is? If a rose is no longer a rose because it is known under the name of Marshal Neil or Geant de Batailles, then tachygraphy may not be phonography when the former is known as Lindsley’s system, the latter as Pitman’s. Pitman’s system is written by sound, and so is the so-called system dubbed tachygraphy by Lindsley. When the astute critic of the High
School Bulletin said he preferred the latter, he probably didn’t know the difference between the two. We can enlighten him a little, perhaps; but if he already knows it, our explanation may serve somebody who is not so wise, and who may be in doubt as to which is the best system, if tachygraphy can be called a system distinct from Pitman’s. To begin, phonography, as we have it now, was invented by Issac Pitman, nearly half a century ago; to be more explicit, 44 years ago,—as early as 1837. Pitman invented characters for every sound in the English language, and discarded all the superfluous words with which the language was then and is yet laden; this system, while it is the oldest, is also simple and as near to perfection as any other, the founder being still alive and keeping pace with the wants and improvements of the age. It is formed of consonant strokes and hooks, and vowel marks; thin strokes representing a light articulation, thick strokes a heavy articulation. This is phonography. Now as to tachygraphy, so-called. Lindsley takes Pitman’s characters, both the light and heavy strokes, and places them in different positions—Pitman’s perpendicular d stroke being placed in a horizontal position, Pitman’s b being called g, his t called p, his perpendicular s laid horizontally, his left-facing z turned to the right, his y is called h, and so on throughout. Next, Pitman’s w and y series of diphthongs are used as vowel marks, being joined to the consonant sounds instead of marked separately, and the so-called tachygraphic alphabet is complete. Does the latter method secure any advantages over the former ? We doubt very much that it does. We have tried both methods, and give an easy preference to Pitman’s. Besides, in rapid writing—that is, when one has gone beyond the learner’s rudiments—Pitman seldom uses vowel marks, the position of the consonantal outline often having them clearly understood. We went no further in our experiment with tachygraphy; for, Lindsley having used up the w and y diphthongs as almost useless vowels, is debarred from their use in special vocalization when needed. Perhaps their place has been supplied; we don’t know. Next, tachygraphy labors under the disadvantage of being a new method, and is seldom, if ever, used by professional reporters, whereas Pitman’s takes the lead of all others. Thus the writer by the tachygraphic method is debarred from reading the Pitman writing, in general use in Congress and the courts. Munson’s and Graham’s systems are also founded on Pitman’s, but the changes from the original are not nearly so radical as Lindsley’s, and the transition from one system to another is less difficult. Tachygraphy is confined to a few persons, Pitman’s phonography is in use both in this country and in England. The American Shorthand Writer says: “We can now count 24 [phonographic periodicals] published regularly, and a few others which appear semi-occasionally. In the U. S. we have 5, in England there are thirteen; the former represents as many diff erent systems, and are chiefly letter-press; the latter are in Isaac Pitman Phonography, and nearly all in lithographed characters. Out of the 24, we count 15 ‘clear’ Pitman and two or three ‘non-com-mital.’ The literature of the former system is five times greater than that of all the others combined, and far cheaper in price. [Pitman’s Manual costs but 40 cents; Lindsley’s, $1.50.] Nearly a ton of phonographic readingmatter a week is printed and sold from the Phonetic Institute at Bath, England.” Browne's Phonographic Monthly, the organ of stenographers in the United States, says that in a society of stenographers at Brewsters, N. Y., writing different systems, 30 write Benn Pitman’s phonography (a modification of Isaac Pitman’s), 17 Graham’s, 3 these combined, 9 other systems. In Chicago, 50 write Benn Pitman’s system, 11 Graham’s; giving a resume of 80 Pit-manites and 28 Grahamites. Tachygraphy is not mentioned at all, although it may have a fair proportion of writers among the few scattering eclectics. The modifications made by Benn Pitman are so few that with a little trouble one can read notes in both. We commend these remarks to the astute critic of the Bulletin who was kind enough to mention his preference, and who gives us credit for the “amount” rather than the quality of the matter in our paper. If we are in error as to the relative difference between the various “ systems ” of phonography and tachygraphy, we will gladly be set right by those who know '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
better, and will cheerfully give their opinions publicity, to a reasonable length, in the Scholastic. We are impartial, and wish to give preference only to merit, and while allowing that there may be room for improvement in the old standard systems of Pitman, Munson, Ben Pitman and Graham, we fail to see the benefit of multiplying modifications, or new devices possessing no advantage, until they compete in number with patent medicines.
College Gossip.
—A. case of manslaughter by a Professor—when a fellow is conditioned and mortification immediately sets in.— Brunonian.
—Some colleges would never be heard of if the students didn’t cut up in an outrageous manner occasionally and get into the newspapers.—Ex.
—Victoria University, of Manchester, England, has decided to grant academical degrees without demanding knowledge of Latin and Greek.—Ex. What next ?
—The Senior class at Madison University has requested the substitution of an address by some competent speaker in place of the usual Commencement orations.—Ex.
—Schoolmistress: “What is the dative of donum? What? Next? Next? Next?” Dunce: “Do’ no.” Schoolmistress: “ Correct. Go to the head.”—Lampoon.
—The election of Prof. Carter has awakened great en-thusiam among the Alumni, and several handsome subscriptions to the funds of the College have been made.— Williams Athenaeum.
—Kenyon boasts of having as many college fraternity chapters as any college of its size in America. According to current rumor, it has about one fraternity to each stud nt.— University Press.
—Professor Northrup said the other day in Faneuil Hall, Boston, that, according to modern teaching, man, instead of being a little lower than the angels, finds himself to be only a little higher than the apes.
—When Ohio people see a couple of medical students with shovels, though the boys may be going to get fishworms, nothing will prevent the people from passing the night in the cemetery armed with shot guns.
—A disputed point. Yale says Io was changed into a bull. The Vassar authority says “into a crazy cow.”— Vassar Miscellany. Give Yale credit for a bull.—Notre Dame Scholastic. We thought it was settled long ago that Io dide of Potassium.—Queen's College Journal.
—The honorary degrees of LL.D, have been conferred by Queen’s College, Kingston, on Mr. L- H. Frechette, the Canadian poet, lately crowned by the French Academy; Mr. A. Todd, the Parliamentary Librarian, Ottawa; and Sir William Young, of Halifax.—King's College Record.
—John P. Howard, who recently gave §50,000 to the University of Vermont, has signified an intention of erecting in University Park, Burlington, a colossal bronze statue of Lafayette, who laid the corner-stone of the old university building on the occasion of his visit to that city in June, 1825.
—An attache of the Chinese embassy was interviewed at Cheyenne on the withdrawal of the students from the American schools. He stated that his government would hereafter send its young men to England, France, or Germany, beyond the reach of the progressive ideas taught in the United States.—Ex.
—Spelling Class.—Teacher: “Miss A., spell Pandora, and give the definition.” Miss A.: “ P-a-n-d-o-r-a, ah! um. I ain’t quite sure, but I think it’s a place in the Bible.” Teacher: “What!” MissA.: “Well, I don’t know where to find the passage; but I’m sure if it ain’t a town, it’s one of the parables, anyhow.”—Sunbeam. ‘
—The Faculty of the University of California, being petitioned by the students to provide fire-escapes, granted their request in a rather unexpected manner, by a positive decree against smoking in or around the college buildings. The boys say they were just fooling, and never did want the old fire-escapes anyhow.—Philosopliean.	-
—The other day, a Professor, a Senior, and a Fresh took a drive. As was natural under such a conglomeration, the springs broke down. Quoth the Professor: “Mr. Gavitt evidently did not count on the weight of brain to be brought on the rig.” “ No! ” said the Fresh, innocently. “ I’m sorry about that. Perhaps, gentlemen, if I had remained at home the accident would not have occurred.” —Argo.
—The Senior class voted five times to graduate in caps and gowns, and as many times reconsidered the motion. They then decided unanimously to use caps only, leaving the choice of the remaining apparatus to individual taste. They have, this term, decided not to wear caps, and now some enterprising members are trying to induce ’81 to don the beaver. Before long we expect to hear that the class has decided not to graduate at all. Beason—the high price of the diploma.—Argo.
—The $100,000 for the new law school building was given to the college under the following circumstances: President Eliot, while walking along the street in Boston, met an old gentleman well known for his liberality towards the college. As they passed each other, the old gentleman asked, seemingly in jest: “Well, what do yon want now?” The President replied in the same tone, “A new law school.” A few days after, the President received an invitation to lunch. After taking lunch alone with his host, they sat talking about general college matters until the subject of the law school was brought up. When asked what amount would be needed for a new building, the President named §100,000. His host excused himself for a moment, but soon returned to the room with papers which gave §100,000 to Harvard University for a new law school building.—Crimson.
Book Notice,
—We have just received a copy of Helmick's American Juvenile Speaker and Songster, which has been prepared to supply the Public Schools of America with a variety of useful matter for daily use, Friday afternoon exercises and exhibitions. Upon examination we find it to contain four distinct departments. The first—the musical department—which contains forty pages of day-school songs, written by some of the best song-writers in the country, and adapted to all grades of pupils. A few songs have been adapted to old and familiar tunes, so that every teacher will find songs with which they are familiar on first introducing the book. Exercise songs for the little folks is also an attractive feature of this department, and really no teacher should be without this work. The second department contains a large number of juvenile declamations, which have been selected with great care and with a view to please as well as instruct. Teachers will find in this department what they have often wanted namely, choice selections of poetry for afternoon exercises and for school entertainments. The third department is designed to furnish the teacher with short paragraphs and poetical quotations, containing choice thoughts for memorizing. This branch of education is becoming deservedly popular among our best teachers, who realize that any teaching is too narrow which measures the education of the pupil by his business necessities. His happiness as a man and his worth as a citizen must be taken into account, and we must lay up in the pupil’s mind a store of goodly thoughts which shall be a living treasure of knowledge, from which they may draw some comfort, guidance and sympathy. The fourth department contains juvenile dialogues, as well as those adapted to grammar and high-school grades. These dialogues have been carefully prepared, and they possess highly entertaining features. None of them are long, and all may be performed in any school-room and on any occasion without any special preparation of stage or scenery, a feature which is very generally overlooked in the preparation of dialogues; this certainly makes them valuable on all occasions. Helmick's American Speaker and Songster is a capital work, and no teacher of whatever grade should be without it. Price, 40 cents per copy—in currency or postage stamps—or §4.20 per dozen. Address all orders to F. W. Helmick, publisher, 180 Elm St., Cincinnati, O.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, August 27, 1881.
—It will be a source of regret to many students returning to Notre Dame to learn that the Very Rev. Father Corby, who for four years past has filled the office of President so acceptably, has been transferred to Watertown, Wis. No President of Notre Dame has endeared himself more greatly than has Father Corby. Possessed of firmness in an unusual degree, he has yet all of those gentle and genial qualities which command respectful admiration and love. In leaving here he will take with him the affectionate regard of all, and will be held in grateful remembrance as one whose life has been of spotless purity and characterized by a spirit of lofty unselfishness.
Father Corby is succeeded as President by the Rev. Thos. Edward Walsh, who for four years has ably filled the office of Vice-President. Father Walsh has been espec, iaily happy in gaining the love of the students, and is respected as a thorough and practical teacher. It is safe to predict that under his management our University will lose none of its character or standing. Father Walsh will be assisted by the Rev. C‘. Kelly as Vice-President, and the Rev. T. D. Collins as Prefect of Discipline, than whom we know of no more capable men.
—Now that the last weeks of vacation are upon us, it were not amiss to call the attention of those of last year’s students who will return to the University, to certain points which, if borne in mind, may assist them very materially in honorably and successfully discharging the onerous duties of the scholastic year now dawning upon us. Let us first speak of the necessity of promptitude in returning, at the proper time. In as much as classes are commenced here promptly on the first Tuesday of September, no one may remain away beyond that time without sustaining some loss, great or small, proportionate to the dilatoriness of his arrival. Students who have the success of their studies at heart will not fail to leave their homes so as to be here in time; and it is a fact worthy of notice, and one that cannot be denied, that those who in June carry off with them gold medals and other prizes, are they who, when Sept. 2d comes, are found at their post. Besides, as all students of the University know, a gold medal for conduct will not be given to any student who does not return punctually, unless for some very grave reason—of whose gravity the President is the judge—he was obliged to remain at home longer than the time allotted. Arrived at the University, no time should be lost by not “entering ” as soon as possible. We have known students to lose an entire week in bringing themselves down to “ entering weight.” Enter, then, immediately on your advent to the University, and lose no time in getting your bill of studies, and books. Then settle down to work, and resolve to let no opportunity for improvement slip through your fingers. Forget the pleasures of vacation; or, at least, let not the thought of them cause you to neglect study. Above all, do not fail at the commencement of the year to place yourself
and your studies under the protection of Heaven, for thence alone emanates true light and wisdom. Be deferential, polite, truthful, manly; always showing the greatest respect to your professors and superiors, and treating with the utmost [regard, consideration, and affability all with whom you may come in contact. Then, indeed, will your stay at college be a pleasant one; and when another year rolls by, and June again arrives, you will leave your Alma Mater with the kindliest feelings towards her, and with that great and only true satisfaction—the satisfaction experienced from the proper performance of one’s duty.
Personal.
[As affairs, over which we had no control, compelled us to negh-ct the publication of the names of several old students who attended our Commencement Exercises, we propose making amends in this issue, by publishing as many of them as we can remember.]
—	Jos. P. Beegan, ’75, is in the law business in Wabash, Indiana.
—	Rev. J. A. Zahm spent a portion of his vacation in Columbus, O.
—	Christ Burger, of ’75, is leader of a first-class orchestra at Reading, Pa.
—	Johnnie O’Rourke, of ’76, has lately been admitted to the Pittsburg bar.
—	Rev. J. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, was at the University Sunday evening.
—	John Baker, ’79, is in the lumber business with his father in Fort Wayne, Ind-
—	Mr. Thos. McGee (Commercial), ’73, is doing well at his home, in Fort Wayne, Ind.
—	George Rhodius writes to us from Long Branch, stating that he is having a good time.
—	Mr. B. J. Gorman (Commercial), ’73, is doing a first-rate grocery business in Defiance, Ohio.
—	Prof. J. A. Lyons looked in upon us last Saturday. The Professor is looking as well as usual.
—	Bro. Philip Neri returned from Cincinnati, Monday evening, where he had been visiting friends.
—	John Arantz (Commercial), ’79, is at present engaged in the hardware business in Fort Wayne, Ind.
—	Ed Fogarty, of ’80, is keeping books for his father in his large establishment on Liberty St., Pittsburg.
—	Thos. Aylevard (Commercial), ’77, is wholesaling it in Lafayette, Ind., and is doing a prosperous business.
—	Bro. Alban, C. S. C., so well and favorably known to students of former years, was present at the retreat.
—	Eugene Fishburn (Commercial), ’79, and Timothy McGrath (Commercial), ’76, paid us a visit on the 23d.
—	Frank Bell is spending his vacation very pleasantly at home, in Lima, Ohio, and will be back in September.
—	Willie W. Dodge, ’77, was here during Commencement He is in the manufacturing business in New York.
—	David B. Walker, who was here in the Minim department in ’68, is with the American Express Co., Lafayette, Ind.
—Henry Breckweg (Commercial), '70, has a hardware store in Lafayette, Indiana, is married, and doing well in every respect.
—	Fred Tyler, ’62, is in the hotel business, and can at any time be seen at the Russell House, the best hotel in Defiance, Ohio.
—A. Dickerhoff (Commercial), ’74, is one of the best book-keepers in Logansport, Ind. He is engaged m one of the national banks.
—We have received letters from a score or more of our Minim friends, all of whom say that they are enjoying themselves immensely.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	9
—	Denis Gorman, ’74, is now deputy sheriff of Allen Co. Denis and his brother Thomas showed marked favors to Brother Paul whilst in Arcola, Ind.
—	G. J. Rhodius, G. Tourtillotte, W. Coghlin and A. Coghlin spent part of their vacation in the cool regions of Northern Michigan and Wisconsin.
—	Rev. Father Charles, of the Order of Passionists, conducted the exercises of the Annual Retreat for the members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
—Manv of his old friends, and he has many here, greeted John R. Lambin (Commercial), *78, at the Commencement. He is in the Assessor’s Office in Chicago-
—	Willie P. Breen, ’77, was here on Commencement Day. It does one good to see so many of the “ old boys’’ around, although many who were expected did not come.
—	Prof. Ivers has opened a drug store on 11th and Mount Vernon St., Philadelphia, and will be pleased to meet any of his friends visiting the Quaker City.
—	Rev. Father Hartman, of Arcola, Ind, is a whole-souled and genial gentleman. This he proved, in more ways than one, to an bumble traveller this vacation.
—	A. J. Burger (Scientific), ’80, who is now studying medicine at the Pennsylvania University, received the highest percentage in his class at the June examination.
—	Mr. John Alber, of Logansport, Ind., has been with the same firm ever since his graduation, in Commercial Course, ’69. John is looking well, and prospering in business,
—Bro. Paul tells us that while on a visit to his brother, in Fort Wayne, lately, he met Mr. Win. P. Breen, ’77, who is now one of the rising young lawyers in that prosperous city.
—Philip Federspiel, ’69, is now carrying on a very successful drug business in St. Mary’s, Ohio. Phil, intends visiting his Alma Moder the coming fall, in company with a very intimate friend.
—Our young mechanical genius, Frank Rettig, expects to be back next year. Bro. Paul found him busily engaged assisting his father in his business, during vacation—a very good sign.
—Bro. Paul, C. S. C., who has been travelling in the interests of the University the past vacation, paid a most agreeable visit to Rev. Father Henry, of Lima, Ohio, and Rev. Father Kinkead, of Defiance.
—Julius and Ralph Golsen, ’76-’77 respectively, from Chicago, Ill., were here for Commencement. So also were Harry and Clarence Faxon, of the same city. All are succeeding well in business in Chicago.
—While in Detroit we had the pleasure of seeing our esteemed friend, Mr. Edward Riopelle, ’77. Ed is doing extremely well. He is of the firm of A. E. Allen & Co., Druggists,—628 Grand River Avenue.
—Among the many “ old ” students and graduates whom we have met this vacation is Dr. C. J. Lundy (’68), of Detroit. Dr. Lundy is one of the most prominent and successful physicians in the City of the Straits.
—E. S. Walter, ’79, is with Remy, Hedges, & Walter, wholesale grocers and confectioners, Mansfield, Ohio, and is doing first-rate. He wishes to be remembered to his classmates, and friends, of whom there are many.
—Mr. W. J. Jackson, passenger agent of the Baltimore & Ohio Railway Co., at Defiance, Ohio, showed marked favors to a representative of the University while in that place, for which he takes this method of expressing his thanks.
—Among the many young men who have graduated in the Commercial Course, few, if any, are more successful than J. Falvey, ’73, and M. Falvey, ’80. During a recenr visit in Winamac, one of the prefects had a most pleasant time with these gentlemen.
—One of the prefects, when visiting Lima, Ohio, found J. M. Boose enjoying his vacation in the best possible way. Mr. Boose is a Commercial graduate, but intends to return next year. Master Boone was also there, and having a good time with his $80 bicycle.
—James Falvey, Mark Falvey, Henry Stites, and Wm. Huddleston, -are reported as having a nice, quiet time at
their homes in Winamac, Ind., during vacation. All of them, and two or three others, informed Bro. Paul that they intended to return next year.
—Col. Theodore Hyatt, M. A., President and Professor of Greek of the Pennsylvania Military Academy located -at Chester, honored us with a visit on the 9th inst. We learn from the South Bend Evening Register that he was favorably impressed and spoke in the highest terms of the University.
—Frank J. Weisenberger, ’75, who is now one of the first business men of Defiance, Ohio, intends visiting his Alma Mater this fall, in company with a friend. Frank left a splendid record here in school-days, and it is needless to say that he will always be welcome. He has many friends here, among the Faculty, prefects, etc.
—Jas. Marlett writes to one of his old prefects that the Southern boys had a safe and pleasant journey home, and that all behaved themselves in such a gentlemanly way as to secure- universal esteem from conductors and everybody. Mr. Marlett will be back next year. His father’s place of business is No. 159 Washington street, Vicksburg, Miss.
—D. J. Hogan, ’73, was at Notre Dame during Commencement, as were also several of the old Chicago boys. Some were disappointed at not seeing the faces of “ Charley” Berdel and Harry Walker, who erstwhile drew such plaudits on the Washington Hall stage. They should have been here to see what in all probability was the last distribution and the last play in the old Hall.
—Eugene F. Arnold, ’78, was here on the 23d, all the way from Washington, D. C. He graduated in the Classical Course here, and the Law Course at Georgetown University. Since graduating, he has been in the law office of Shellabarger & Wilson, Washington, D. C., thus making acquaintance with the best practice in the United States. He is spending the vacation months at the University.
—Master G. J. Woodson, whose serious illness during the last session came so near terminating fatally, has, we are happy to state, after spending several weeks in the northern part ol Michigan, sufficiently recuperated to permit of his going to St. Louis, to spend the remaining portion of vacation with relatives and friends. Guy left for St Louis on the eve of the Sth inst. We hope that he may be enabled to resume his studies next month.
—We regret t<| learn that, through an oversight on the part of some one at Notre Dame, Rev. Father Hellhake, of Columbia City, this State, did not get his Scholastic the past year. Father Hell hake has always been a warm friend to the Scholastic, and has year after year proved his friendship by sending on his subscription. Moreover, one of our representatives desires us to express his gratitude to Rev. Father Hellhake for kind favors this vacation.
—Mr. S. P. Terry, ’81, writes that he is member of an engineer corps at Rochester, Ind. He is evidently doing first-rate, has good pay, and, as he says, has “ no cause for complaint” against fickle Dame Fortune. He says that Frank Singler, ’78, is telegraph operator on the I. P. & C. R. R. at Rochester, and they occasionally pass an hour in social chat together. Has received letters from Osher, Kuhn, Stiizel, and other classmates, and reports all well.
—Rev. C. J. Kelly, C. S C., President of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., in company with his able assistants, Rev. Messrs. Lauth and Morrissey, C. S. C., and Bro. Alban, arrived here Monday, the 7th, to attend the retreat. He reports everything prosperous in Watertown, and says that the prospects for a very large attendance at that institution next session, so rapidly rising into prominence under his administration, are very flattering.
”We had the pleasure of meeting the following students and ex-students of Notre Dame at different times and ’ places during our vacation trip: Masters A- and W. Coghlin, G. Tourtillotte, W. Taylor, H. and J. Metz, A. Kengel, M. O’Neil, all of last year; J. Devine, '74; J. Brogan, ’74; A. Greening, ’75; H. Faxon, ’76; E. Riopelle, ’77; W. Chapoton, ’77; A. Chapoton, ’76; F. Whittlesberger,’75; J. Schultheis, ’75; J. O’Connor, ’74; J. Rabbitt, ’78, and Dr. C. J. Lundy, ’68.
—The following is a partial list of the visitors to Notre
10	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC).
Dame since Commencement: G. E. Colby, W. B. Collins and lady, Miss S. 0. Bacon, A. and M. Winback, F. and J. Wicherska, M. J. O’Brien, T. Turbrayer, E. Turbrayer, M- Moruberg, H. A. Moults and lady, and Miss M. Moults, Mrs. Durksmeyer, Miss F. Knill, Miss 0. Shaeffer, W. W. Fletcher, W. M. Derbin, R. E. Parkinson, F. H. Weisger-ber, W. Ahard, R. and Miss M. Dunham, Mrs. W. Tur-bush, S. Stone, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. M. Meyer, Dixon, Ill.; I. Knickerbocker, Alton, Ill.; Miss J acobs, St. Louis, Mo.; C. J. Eich and wife, Plymouth, Ind.; J. Turner, Quincy, Mich.; Mrs. S. Howell, Mishawaka; the Messrs. Lantz, Elkhart; I. Leyesand lady, St. Clements, Canada; E. H. Allis and lady, Albion, N. Y.; J. Adams, Quincy, Ill.; M. Kroff and lady, Sandusky, O.; S. Richards, New Haven, Conn.; E. J. Tester, Laporte, Ind.; M. and J. Kriger, Buffalo, N. Y.; Miss J. Worden, Battle Creek, Mich.; Mrs. E. Cahill, Coldwater, Mich.; Miss E. Dickerhoff, Logansport, Ind.; J. 0. Toole, Three Rivers, Mich.; P. M. Toole, Indianapolis, Ind.; M. Burke, Cincinnati, 0.; Miss E. Ellen, Indianapolis; L. Chawdick, Benton Harbor, Mich.; E. W- Altland, S. A. Kleine, Mrs. Judge Turner, J. A. Richard, Mrs. K. Holland, Thos. 0. Stringer and lady, and Misses C. and G. Stringer, Miss O. Chadwick, Miss K. Apple, H. Clifford, A. Lafevre, W. A. Stevenson, Miss G. Listenberger, Mrs. B. Smith, D. Warner, Mrs. Vad-isch, G. Bruce, Mrs. F. Fox, Hattie Purdy, 0. Spain and lady, J. G. Miller, J. D. Calkins'and lady, Miss E. Clarke, Miss N. Greene, Miss E. Taylor, Miss M. Bavet, Mrs. Dr. Blade, Mrs. B. Powell, W. Henderson and lady, D. E. Cummins, Miss M, Cummins, Miss L. Ryan, Miss A. Perkins, Miss S. Applegate, Mrs. R. Stein, P. Studebaker and daughter, Messrs, j. D. T. and H. McNamara, Miss M. Miller, Miss I. Milburn, Clem. Studebaker, Anna Studebaker, Geo. M. Studebaker, Ed Buyser, South Bend, Ind. ; Miss Jacobs, Columbia O.; Miss Haydel, St. Louis, Mo.; C. D. Bennet, Centreville, Mich. The University register contains one hundred and seventy-five more names for which we have no space.
Local Items.
—Watermelons!
—New arrivals daily.
—Handball is at a stand still.
—The heated term will soon expire.
—Bathing in Lake St. Joe twice a day.
—Prof. Edwards is visiting “ The Hub.”
—The Minims’ swings are still kept swinging.
—A large number of visitors arrive here daily.
—The Junior Prefects remain the same as last year.
—“G. Edmund” is enjoying the heat in Cairo, Illinois.
—Bro. Robert’s flower garden is the finest at Notre Dame.
—“ Charley Ross” will return to Notre Dame next September.
—Pro£ Baur has severed his connection with the University.
—The fountains in College Park still play their watery melodies.
—The procession on the Feast of the Assumption was simply grand.
—We hope that all our “ staves ” are spending their vacation pleasantly.
—The Minims will excursionize to the St. Joe during the coming week.
—The demand for Catalogues is unprecedented. A good sign indeed.
—The Minims’ yard now as ever, is the most animated at the University.
—Father. T. Maher and Bro. Celestine remain at their post as heretofore.
—Orrick has graduated, so to speak, from the Junior to the Senior department.
—Now is the time to send in your subscription for next year’s Scholastic.
’ —Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., goes to Watertown as Father Corby’s assistant.
—Texas is well represented in the persons oi the Messrs. Brownes, of Brownsville.
—The Scholastic will be removed to more commodious quarters next month.
—The Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, C. S. 0., has been appointed President of the University.
—Rev. R. Maher, C. S. C., of Iowa, is at the University, having attended the retreat.
—Let all who return in September resolve to carry off one or more honors in June.
—“Jim” is flourishing at Dexter. The heat fails to make any impression on him.
—The Rev. P. Lauth, C. S. C., has started to take charge of a mission at Silver Reef, Utah.
—Linen dusters and long light ulsters, with “ flip flaps ” a la gamboliery are all the go here.
—More improvements in the society-room of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
—Rumor has it that a store situated not two hundred miles from Notre Dame is bankrupt.
—The Rev. Father Czyzewski has not been changed from his Polish parish at South Bend.
—The “funny man” has not been heard from. The same might be said of the “gambolier.”
—Bro. Charles, the veteran prefect, was the director of the Senior department during vacation.
—The Rev. T. D. Collins, C. S. C., lately of St. Bernard’s parish, Watertown, is Prefect of Discipline.
—Masters W. and T. Ellis, of Leadville, Colorado, are the latest addition to the Minim department.
—Work is, owing to the scarcity of workmen, for the time being suspended on the Academy of Music.
—Bro. Paul has been appointed first Prefect of the Senior department, with Bros. Raphael and William.
—Prof. Luigi Gregori, the famous Italian artist, will have charge of the Art Department next session.
—C. C. Echlin may be appropriately styled “ The Lone Bicyclist,” as he alone now rides the “steel pony.”
—What with bricks and lumber, the Juniors’ campus has the appearance of a vast brick and lumber yard.
—W. H. Arnold and W. B. McGorrisk remain at the University-heavy fragments of our once powerful Staff.
—Bro. Amandus, Prefect of the Minim department, is enjoying his vacation among relatives in New Jersey.
—The New Version has made the saying an easy one. No one will now hesitate to say, “ Il’s as hot as Hades.”
—The prospects are that the number of students for the coming year will be largely in excess of those of last year.
—The Rev J. O’Keeffe, C- S. C., goes to Watertown as President of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
—Now and then the corridors reverberate with the tuneful voice of our friend Gibert, in one of his favorite French songs.
—Bro. Leopold, C. S. C., returned last week from Pennsylvania, where he had been visiting friends and relatives.
—Profs. Lyons, Tong, Edwards, Devoto, McCue and Paul will of course retain their old places during the coming term-
—Bros. Leander, Alexander, Paul, Emmanuel, Raphael, Lawrence and Albert are anxiously awaiting the return of the boys.
—The Very Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau has been appointed Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in the United States.
—The Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., takes charge of Sh Patrick’s congregation at South Bend, assisted by Rev. Father Kollop.	>
—Prof. T. F. O’Mahony, so well and favorably remembered by the students of ’72-'75, will be engaged in the department of mathematics during the coming year.
THE KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
11

—Rev-N. Stoffel returned from La Porte, Tuesday evening, where he had been engaged in onerous parochial duties for some time.
—All the students who have ever attended Notre Dame will be rejoiced to learn that Very Rev. Father General is still hale and hearty.
—Nobody seems to have heard anything from that “Fort Wayne Minim,”—at least no one has said anything to us to that effect.
—Master Ed Gall, Indianapolis, writes us that he and his brother Ally are having a very pleasant time. Both will return in September.
—The Very Rev. Father Corby, C. S. C., our loved and esteemed President of last year, takes charge of St. Bernard’s parish, Watertown, Wis.
—We recently met our young and esteemed friends, Masters H. and J. Metz, Minim department, both of whom will return next session.
—The Rev. C. Kelly, C. S. C., late President of the College of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., is our VicePresident and Director of Studies.
—The Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., spent a few days at Notre Dame during and after the retreat, and has returned to his pastoral duties in Austin, Texas.
—The most enjoyable and refreshing kind of sport—the disporting of one’s self in the cool waters of Lake St. Joe, when Mercury dances to 100 in the shade.
—Master Henry Metz, of Chicago, shows his attachment to his Alma Mater by procuring as many new students as possible. He has already sent two here.
—Joe Dwenger is said to be the best swimmer in the Minim department. F. Campau is the best in the Preparatory department, with Castanedo second.
—Don’t drink too much water this hot weather, but rather follow Carter Harrison’s advice. Further particulars may be had from our friend W. B. McGorrisk.
—C. C. Echlin still rides his bicycle. Charley believes that physical training should not be abandoned even in hot weather with the thermometer up in the nineties.
—The Minims’ campus is well grown over with weeds. A scythe in the hands of a skilful mower would soon make a greatly to be desired change jp its appearance.
—Students should bear in mind that all remaining in South Bend, or not entering punctually on their return, forfeit their chances for First Honors at the end of the year.
—When onr friend John exclaimed that it was “awfully awful hot ” where he came from, we at once reached the conclusion that he had been on at least one moonlight excursion.
—C. C. Echlin Is doing a rushing and remunerative business in card printing. His little “Daisy” is kept busy, without intermission, from Monday morning until Saturday night.
—Rev. P. Hurth, C. S. C., President of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, 0., and his assistants, Messrs. Sullivan, French, Irman, and Bro. Ireneus, C. S. C., were in attendance at the retreat.
—“Hades,” we are informed, would be a rather cool name by which to designate the weather here during the month of July. The thermometer registered 102 deg. in the shades, most of the time.
—We heard a base bawl from one of the Minims last Friday week. Cause—baseball in the eye. And now the philosophical Minim avers that a baseball in the eye causes a base bawl to emanate from the throat.
—The grand organ in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, injured by water during the heavy storm of the 23d ult., is being repaired under the careful and efficient supervision of Bro. Basil, C. S. C., and Prof. Paul.
—A number of the boys have written for special seats in study-halls, and for beds in dormitories. The prefects would be pleased to hear from all of last year’s students, that they may be able to make the necessary arrangements.
—The seventeen Minims who are spending the vacation
at Notre Dame had a big tme at the St. Joe Farm on the 14th. The only thing to be regretted about the excursion was, that many innocent ducks lost their lives in favor of the small boys.	-
—And now since invitations to the steam-house are no longer in order, that favorite resort being under repairs, our friend John may be seen sitting on the deserted banks of the river St. Joe sighing for the times that were, but are not.	-
—Bro. Bernard, C. S. C., has been in charge of the students’ store during Bro. Thomas’s absence. Heavy sales are reported. Having adopted the principle of quick sales and light profits, B. B. has done a rushing business and established a fine trade.
—The following is a complete list of the Seniors remaining here up to date: L. F. Callagari, R. Btcerra, H. Lan-nan, T. Walsh, J. O’Reilly, J. Browne, W. Browne, F. Ewing, E. Otis, E. Orrick, E. Yrissari, W. McGorrisk, W. Arnold and A. Maley.
—No doubt many, if not all, of the Juniors of last session will be very anxious to learn of the whereabouts of the “ Marshal.” He’s spending his vacation in one of the finest cities of the Union, is well, and his address is 38 Abbott St., Detroit, Mich.
—Sancho has undergone a complete metamorphosis. You would scarce recognize in the Sancho of today, the snarling, growling, ugly-looking canine of two months ago. Wonder how many will recognize the famous dog on their return next month ?
—Among those remaining in the Junior department are P. Archer, A. Brown, J. S. and J. M. Courtney, C. C. Echlin, P. Yrissari, T. Ellis, W. Ellis, A. Campau and F. Campau, G. Castanedo, F. Krone, L. Gibert, A. Kempt, C. McGordon and J. McGordon.
—Masters Marshal Olds and Willie Hanavin, Columbus, O., have been heard from. They, despite.the excessive heat, are having a pleasant vacation. Marshal has one of the best hen stories on record. We wish that our limited space would permit its publication.
—Master G. J. Woodson, in company with “ye editor,” had a delightful trip up the Lakes, spending nearly two weeks in the cool region of Northern Michigan. Days when the papers received from Detroit announced 90 or 100 degrees in the shade, in the city, overcoats felt comfortable “ up North.”
—When last heard from, Prof. Unsworth was swinging in a hammock and enjoying the cool breezes by the side of the Bethesda Spring at Waukesha. He expected soon to travel northward, his objective point being Manitoba. He will, however, return in time to resume his interesting course of English literature on Sept. 8th.
—Bro. Leander, who has been travelling in the East during vacation, gives a glowing account of the “old boys” residing in Pittsburg, Reading and Philadelphia. He wishes us to return thanks to John O’Rourke, of ’76, and Charlie Cavanagh, of ’78, for courtesies extended him during his visit to Pittsburg and Philadelphia. '
—Master C. F. Rietz (“Dozen”), writing us from his home in Chicago, says that he has at last commenced the battle of life. He is assistant book-keeper in his father’s lumber office. Speaking of the great Saengerfest recently held in the Garden City, he says that though it was not so grand as those of former years, yet he thought the singing somewhat superior to that- of our last session’s Vocal Music Classes.
—No more that form we see, No more hear that refrain;
The voice that used to thrill us once, We ne’er shall hear again.
The above lines may be read on the beautiful monument erected by the Minims over the mortal remains of the Kilkenney cat, which, we learn, fell a victim to Sancho’s hatred for the feline tribe.
—We visited Br. Albert’s studio the other day, and although being vacation we saw he has succeeded in drawing three portraits, and finishing two others, besides painting a landscape in oil. The portraits are in crayon; showing strength and vigor in treatment, and excellent likenesses. That of Very Rev. E. Sorin occupies the place of honor,
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J?
and was executed, we were told, for Prof. J. A. Lyons, to be hung in the St. Cecilia Society Room. It represents Fr. General with his happiest expression, and is a great improvement on the one drawn in ’77 for the same place.
—The advertisement of St. Mary’s Academy appears in this issue and sets forth clearly the work and merits of this superior institution of learning. As we had occasion to remark in connection with a report of the twenty-sixth annual commencement exercises, St. Mary’s is a progressive school, never content with present efficiency, but ever struggling toward the goal of perfection. As a school and a home for young ladies and girls, it has no superior, and few equals in the land, combining as it does a strict moral as well as a complete intellectual curriculum. Each year brings an increase in the number of pupils and a necessity for an enlargement of facilities.—South-Bend Register.
—The 26th annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy, issued from the Tribune establishment, is the handsomest in typographical execution and mechanical appearance of any yet issued. The contents are of great value to all who are interested in education, as the merits and advantages of one of the most noted female educational institutions in the country are fully set forth in its pages. In this connection, we desire to call attention to the advertisement of St. Mary’s Academy in another part of this paper. We can truthfully say we know of no place where young ladies have as pleasant surroundings, as competent teachers and such parental care as at St. Mary’s Academy.—South-Bend Tribune.
—Prof. J. A. Lyons is spending his vacation in Chicago, principally. We met him there a short time since, when he informed us that an important prediction had been. omitted from his astrological predictions in the Scholastic Annual for ’81. He says that although he was well aware; that an attempt would be made on the life of President. Garfield, July 2d, by some fortunate.or unfortunate combination of circumstances—he cannot say which—the prediction failed to appear in the Annual’s columns. He now predicts the speedy recovery of our wounded chief. Wouldn’t it be well to have an erratum inserted ? Perhaps it would be better to say nothing until after the next presidential election.
—If what we hear reported of our friend “ G. Edmund ” be true, his mind and whole personality are in a state which we do not envy. He had a case in Cairo recently, in which a murderer was his client. “ G. Edmund ” has studied Latin; and, as during his appeal to the jury, an opportunity to exhibit his classical lore presented itself, and hoping thereby to influence the opinion of the jury in favor of his client, he broke forth in the following accents in concluding his appeal: “Gentlemen of the jury, give up, drop entirely all feeling in this important matter, and like the ancient Roman in his adherence to the truth, who, in its defence most eloquently declared: 1 Amicus Gato, amicus Plato, amicus Cicero, sed major veritas.' ” [“I am a friend to Cato, a friend to Plato, a friend to Cicero, but a greater friend to truth.”] The next morning, to his horror and disgust, “ G. Edmund” found himself reported in the newspapers as follows: “Mr. 0------, our rising young lawyer, and a gradu-
ate of Notre Dame University, Ind., closed his great speech to the Jury last night by eloquently disclaiming: ‘I may cuss Cato, I may cuss Plato, I may cuss Cicero, said Major Veritas.’” We understand that a suit for libel has been instituted.	'
—The most prominent social event of the week in this vicinity was a dinner-party given at Notre Dame University, on Saturday evening, by Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross. Among the invited guests present were Col. Otis, of the famous Custer Regiment, the 7th U. S. Cavalry, and his accomplished wife, who, with the children, are passing the six months’ leave of absence granted Col. Otis, at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s; Very Rev. W. Corby and Rev. T. E. Walsh, President and Vice-President of the University; Rev. D. E. Hudson, Editor of the Are Maria; and Profs. J. A. Lyons. LL. D, and L. G. Tong, LL. B., of the University Faculty. Among the city guests present were Hon. T. S. Stanfield, Ex-Senator Hubbard, Messrs. Aaron Jones,
J. C. Knoblock and R. L. Koehler; Mr. and Mrs. Clem Studebaker, Mr. and Mrs. John Brownfield, Mr. and Mrs. P. E. Studebaker, Ex-Mayors Miller and Tong and their wives, Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Kimball, of the First National Bank; Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Stanfield, Mr. and Mrs. P. O’ Brien, and the editors of the daily papers and their wives. The guests began assembling at about five o’clock, in the grana parlor of the University, and an hour later were escorted to the Seniors’ refectory by their distinguished host, where several large tables were fairly groaning under their wealth of viands. After the repast, the guests returned to the grand parlor and the reception-rooms adjacent, where wines were served, or to the broad veranda, where the gentlemen guests were regaled with the choicest cigars and entertained at “ feast of season and flow of soul ” which nowhere have their better presentment than among the cultured gentlemen of Notre Dame. Afterwards the guests were shown through the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, so famous the country over for its precious works of art, and through the study-halls and other parts of the University. Then followed some musical performances on the piano by Mrs. H. S. Stanfield and Mrs. Ex Mayor Miller. When the parting time came in the late twilight, the church chimes played a parting song and the immense bell of Notre Dame sent peal after peal echoing up and down the valley for miles. The guests in bidding good-bye to the venerable Father Sorin and his cultured aids, could not but wonder at the victory this man bad won with book and pen, in establishing an educational log-fort in a wilderness here among the Indians forty years ago, and fighting for civilization and achieving a victory whose results have been felt for years all over this country. It is as great a victory in its way as any that Father Sorin’s distinguished countryman, the First Napoleon, won in his.—South-Bend Baily Tribune Aug. 1st-
> $ • 4
-I

I

Matthews & Holt, .
PLUMBERS & GASFITTERS
MANUFACTURERS OF
GAS MACHINES,
AND DEALERS IN GASOLINE, 75 Dearborn St, Unity Block, CHICAGO ILL.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
.	by
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
4
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
Price, Address
gilt, $1.25; plain, 1.00.
STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
I IlW.*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	13
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls youx attention, to the fbllo'wdng REASONS WHY-if about to make a Journey to the GREAT "WEST—you should Travel over it:
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union Depots, at all important points. Nd change of cars between Chicago, Kansas City, Leavenworth. Atchison or Council Bluffs. Quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purposes, and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. A journey that furnishes the finest views of the fertile farms and pretty cities of Illinois, Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered as one of the pleasant Incidents of life. You arrive at destination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty; calm, not angry. In brief, you get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of cost.
That the unremitting care of the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the great assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the great citiesof the United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while en route to behold the wonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health, pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October, the Company every year puts on sale. May 1st, at all coupon ticket oifices in the United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver, Colorado Springs and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October 31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties of ten or more, good for ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.
REMEMBER, this is the most direct route for all points WEST and SOUTH W EST. For further information, time tables, maps or folders, call upon or address
VL. K. CABLE,
Vice Pres’t and Gen'l Manager, Chicago.
u. srr- johjV, Gan’l Ticket and Pass’r Agent-
’Weeklv Newspapers.
rrillE CATIIOTjIC UNIVERSE, an excelL lent Catholic and family newspaper, published every Thursday.
Terms, $2.50 per annum. Address, Manly Tello, Manager and Editor, 117 Erle treet, Cleveland, Ohio.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. L. Clarke, of 70.
THE A.VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. “ubscrip-tlon price, $2.50.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 1«, 1879,
	♦Mail	♦Day	•Kal.	t Atlantic	tNight
		Express.	Accom.	Express.	Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -	7 00 a. m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	515 pm.	910 pm
Mich. City -	9 25 “	11 13 “	6 35 “	7 40 “	1130 “
“ Niles - - - - -	10 45 “	12 15 p.m	8 05 “	9 00 “	12 48 am
“ Kalamazoo -	12 33 p.m	1 40 “	9 50 “	10 28 “	2 28 “
“ Jackson - - -	3 45 “	4 05 “		12 50 a.m	5 00 “
Ar. Detroit - -	6 48 “	6 30			3	**	8 00 “
	♦Mall	♦Day ’	♦Jackson	+ Pacific	tEven’g
		Express.	Express.	Express	Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -	7 GO a. m	9 35 a. m	5 55p.m	9 50 pm.	8 10 p.m
“ Jackson - - -	10 20 “	12 15 p. m	4 50 a, m	12 45 a.m.	115 “
Kalamazoo - •	1 15 p.m	2 37 “		2 43 “	1 33 a.m
“ Niles 			3 05 “	4 07 “	6 50 “	415 “	8 30 “
“ Mich. City - -	4 30 “	5 20 “	8 08 “	5 30 “	4 55 “
Ar. Chicago		6 50 “	7 40 “	10 35 “	8 00 “	730 “
INiles and Sovitii Bend Division.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Nov. 7, 1880, TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STB. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
		No.l	No. 7	No. 3,	No. 5.
		Fast Ex.	Pac Ex.	Night Ex	Limit Ex.
Pittsburg,...		12.05 a.m.	9.15 a.m.	1.50 p.m.	7.30 p.m.
Rochester...		1.15 “	10.10 “	2.55 “	
Alliance,				3.30 “	1.20 p.m.	5.35 “	10.25 p.m.
Orrville,					5.00 “	3.18 “	7.13 “	
Mansfield			6.55 “	5.40 “	9.20 “	
Crestline,....	..Arrive	7.25 “	6.15 “	9.45 “	L40 a.m.
Crestlin		...Leave	7.50 a.m.	6.35 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	1.45 AM.
Forest			9.25 “	8.18 “	11.28	
Lima			10.40 “	9.30 “	12.32 A.M.	
Ft. Wayne,				1.15 P M	12.08 a.m.	2.40 ‘	5 35 “ •
Plvmnnth			3.46 “	2.50 “	4.55 “	7.16 “ 9.40 “
Chicago,....		7.00 “	6.00 “	8.00 “	
GOING EAST.
	No. 8, Fast Line	No. 2, Morn. Ex.	No. 4, Atlan^x.	No. 6, N.Y. Ex.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,		9.40 P.M. 2.50 a.m.	8.30 a.m. 11.53 “	5.15 p.m. 9.25 “	3.30 p.m.
Ft”. Wayne		6.55 “	2.35 p m.	12.15 a.m.	8.35 p.m.
Lima,		8.55 “	4.36 “	2.38 “	* • • • •• • • • •
Forest,		10.08 “	5.43 “	3.55 “		-
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	7.10 “	5.30 “	1235 am.
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.30 p.m.	640 a.m.	1240 a.m.
Mansfield,		12.35 “	803 “	7.20 “	L15 “
Orrville,		2.26 “	10.06 “	9.23 “	2.57 “
Alliance,		4.00 “	1L45 “	11.25 “	4.25 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	2.04 a.m.	2.10 “	_ - - -	- -
Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	7.30 “	3.15 “	3.15 pm.	7.30 am.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. Lv. Niles— “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “	“ 'T
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
“ N. Dame—7 40 “
7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m.
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “
4 48 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. ^ei^ahd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Bl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Trains Nos. 3, 6, 5 and 4 run daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 8 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
G. R. WOOD,	. E. A. FORD,
Gen. Pas. & Tkt. Agt., Phil., Pp. R, R. Pittsburgh, Pa,

14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Care, Palace Reclining Chair Care and Pullman Palace Sleeping Care, runthrough direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOVIS, and
ST. LOVIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for teals in the finest Seclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KAN SAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL
POINTS SOVTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tire Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route 'between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CABS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
Jambs Charlton, J. C. McMullin, General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager.
210 Dearborn st, near pof. of Ada^ Chicago.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and Vnited States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notbe Dame, Ind.
SHORT-HAND
TAUGHT BY MAIL IN 12 LESSONS, FOR §1.50.
The growing interest in Phonography has created a demand for a Periodical to teach the Art, in a series of Lessons comprehensive, detailed and thorough. The
AMERICAN SHORT-HAND WRITER,
taking the initiative, is the only Magazine in the World that teaches Phonography. A full course given every year, one complete Lesson each month, and the Exercises of all Learners
CORRECTED THROUGH THE MAIL
free of charge. Those who prefer to learn in a briefer time than one year, may join our Correspondence Class and go through an entire course in either 10 or 20 weeks.
Single copy, containing First Lesson, mailed to any address for 15 cents.
Anyone wishing to learn this fascinating and valuable science are solicited to write at once for Free Descriptive Circular.
ROWELL & HICKCOX,
VINELAND, N. J.
Please mention the paper in which you saw this advertisement
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done gOUTH BgND, INDIANA,'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	15
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
RAILROAD.
Depots, foot of Lake St., Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St., and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St. and at the depots.
Leave. Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger........* 7:25 a m.	* 7:30 p.m
Nebraska and Kansas Express........* 9:30 m.	* 4:05 p.m
Rockford and Freeport Express...... *10: 0 i in.	*3:20 p.m
Dubuque and Sioux City Express.....* 10:(X) a.m	* 3:20 p m
Pacific Fast Express............... *10 30 >.m	*3:40 p.m
Kansas and Colorado Express........*10 31 -.m.	*3:40 p.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation.......* 8:25 -’.m	* 1:35 p.m
Aurora Passenger ..................* 3:15 p.m	* 7:55 a.m
Mendota and Ottawa Express.........* 4:35 p in. *10:40 a.m
Aurora Passenger...................* 5:30 p.m.	* 8:55 a.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation.......* 6:15 p.m.	* 7:15 a.m
Freeport and Dubuque Express.......* 9:30 p m.	* 6:35 a.m
Pacific Night Express for Omaha....19:05 p.m.	J 6:55 a.m
Texas Fast Express.................*9:05 p.m.	j 6:55 a.m
Kansas City and St Joe Express.....+ 9:05 p.m.	j 6:55 a.m
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleep, ing Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.__________________________________________________ ’Sundays excepted. tSaturday excepted. ^Monday excepted.
For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations apply to
C.	W. Smith,	James R. Wood,
Traffic Manager,	Gen. Pass. Agent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & STorth-Westesa Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freep >i t. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Geji. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago, Gen. Manager, Chicago
PROSPECTUS OF Browne’s Phonographic Monthly AND REPORTER’S JOURNAL, New York, FOR THE YEAR 1881.
ORGAN OF THE REPORTING PROFESSION.
This publication is now in its sixth volume A course of lessons is being given bv the editor, which will embrace all the latest improvements of the art as adapted by reporters during tbe past twenty years’ reporting As all instruction books are years behind the practice of the art, and do not contain any of the new principles introduced, these lessons will be found invaluable to all students.
Fac-Simile Reporti'-g N< Trs of leading stenographers will show word-forms and phrase-signs not to be found elsewhere, that will be useful as showing how little attention practical reporters oay to the expedients, devices, and contractions put down in the old instruction books and recommended by authors
Portraits a>d Skejchfs will be given, which will be useful as showing what have been the struggles, trials and success of men eminent iu the profession. In this way an acquaintance will be made with these gentlemen that will b“ of lasting interest to old stenographers as well as to young men about to take up the art.
Besides being the only shorthand publication in America published promptly on time (the 15th of each month! it contains news, notices of new books, personal doings of stenographers, and communications from reporters throughout the world.
A Premium Holiday Number considerably enlarged and beautifully illustrated, wall be Issued in December This number w'ill be sold separately for §1.00. but to regular yearly subscribers, w’ho pay the subscription price of 82 00. this number will be included without extra charge. To get the ben‘fit cf this splendid offer, subscriptions should be sent m now for a year’s numbers, and S2.00 must be forwarded to pay for the same in advance. Specimen copies of a late number will be sent to those desiring to see the publication before subscribing, by simply forwarding address to the publisher with a request for the same."
D.	L. SCOTT-BROWNE,
Conductor and Publisher.
23 Clinton Place, New York City.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Great Short Route South, Southwest and West.
May 15,1881. Local and Through Time Table. No. 22.
Goins' North.		STATIONS.	Goins South.	
1.40 p m.	4.20 p.m.	Abrivb	Leave - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m.	8^5 p.m
1.00 “	3 35 “	- - - - La Porte, - -	10.23 “	8 55 “
12 35 “	3.14 “	- - - Stillwell, - - -	10.41 “	9.20 “
12.14 a.m.	2.53 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.00 “	9 42 “
11.42 “	2.23 “	- - - Plymouth, - - -	1135 “	10.21 “
10.4'1 “	130 “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12.27 p.m.	11.20 p.m
10.12 “	12 51 “	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.06 “	1157 “
9.50 “	12 30 p.m.	- - -	- Peru, - - - -	145 “	12 25 a.m
9 23 “	11.50 “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.05	12.48 “
8.50 “	11.18 “	- - - Kokomo, - - - —	2.40 “	1.30 “
8.09 “	10.41 “	- - - - Tipton, - -	3.16 “	2.07 “
7.25 “	9.57 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4.C0 “	2.48 “
6.25 p.m.	8.50 a.m.	Lv. - Indianapolis, - Ab.	5.00 “	3.45 “
THE ONLY LINE Running a noon Train out of Indianapolis for CHICAGO, Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST.
Eleeant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANAPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY.
V. T. Mallott,
Gen’l. Manager, Indianopolls.
Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent,
\	16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872 for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, <tc., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
.1. I?. EOWAIII>S.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems, BY MADKICE F. EGAN. Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, Si* postpaid.
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 14,1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. m.; Cleveland 2.30 p. m. Buffalo, 8.50 p. m.
1105 a-, m., Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. m.; Cleveland 10.10 p. m.; Buffalo, 4 a. m.
9.12 p. in., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m
12.16 p. m., Special New York Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. m., Cleveland, 10.10 p. m Buffalo, 4 a. m.
6.21 p. m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p. m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a. m.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a. m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3.35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m.
5.05 a. m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a. m., Chicago 8.20 a. m.
0.93 a. m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9.05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. m.; Chicago, 11.30 a. m.
116 p. m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.12. p. m.; Chesterton, 2.52 p. m.; Chicago, 4.40 p. m
4.50 p- m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 538; Chesterton, 6.15 p. m.; Chicago, 8 p. m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.
EASTWARD.	2 MAIL.	4 . Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Express.	8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Ex. press.
Chicago..'	  Leave Grand Crossing	  “ Miller’s	 “ Chesterton	 “ Otis..	  “ Laporte				 .Arrive Laporte	    Leave South Bend	 “ Mishawaka	......		 “ Elkhart	Arrive Toledo	 “ Cleveland...	; Buffalo	  .“ New York	  “ Boston	“	7 35 a.m. 8 09 “ 9 10 “ 9 32 “ 9 47 “ 10 06 “ 10 08 “ 11 05 “ 11 15 “ 11 40 “ 5 25 p.m. ; 4 50 “ 10 10 a.m.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ 12 05 a.m. 12 32 “ 12 52 “	3 30 p.m.
					
					
		1102 “ 11 20 “ 1122 “ 12 16 p.m.	7 32 “		
					
			8 20 “ 9 12 “ 9 20 “ 9 45 “	1 20 “ 2 25 “ 2 35 “ 3 00 a.m. 9 50 “ 2 55 p.m. 815 “ 10 30 a.m. 2 40 p.m.	5 38 “ 6 21 “
		12 50 “			6 45 “ 10 50 “ 2 00 a.m. 7 40 “ 10 10 p.m.
		10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m. 9 45 “	7 30 “ 1 25 p.m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “		
					
.W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l. Manager. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t,