
,	. 2; c > ' . " ' ” ' ’ -	41 * -
The Scholastic.
.. .. . L . ..... . ........ -—--- _—_- —-—-
Devoted to the
TUDENTS,
Vita Sine Literis Mors Est
Volum.3 VI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 11,1873.	Number 18.
f Hew Year’s Entertairment, .
Bt the Saint Cecilia Philomathean Association, January 7,1S73.
Music—Grand Entrance March............N. D. U. C. Band
Music—Quartette............................'...’ .Orchestra
'Address—Senior Department............. E.	B. Gambee
■ Address—Junior Department.   .............. L.F. Euan
- Music................................ N.	D. U. C. Band
Scene from Julius Caesar—the Quarrel of Brutus and
Cassius..............J.	Langenderfer, O...Waterman
Prologue.............•.......................W. Meyer
Music....................................  Orchestra
’	“ IT NEVER RAINS BUT IT POURS.’’..
A FARCE IN ONE ACT. Cast of CZiararfers.	■	■
Paul Smithers................................J.	Langenderfer
Jack Thomson (his friend)...'........................W. Meyer
Mr. Simpson, M. C......................................F. Egan
Mr. Bobbidge..........................'...;..0.	Waterman
Postman................’........1........    R.	Hutchings
Waiter......................’..'................'. .’.H. ’Hunt
To conclude with
•	“ THE PEOPLE’S LAWYER.”
A Comedy in Two Acts, Slightly Remodelled for the Occasion.	‘
• Cast of Character!:.
' Robert Howard (the People's Lawyer).....0. Waterman Hugh Winslow (a Merchant).............................F. Egan
Solon Shingle (a Country Teamster).................’.J. Langenderfer Charles Otis (a’Clerk)....................•.W. Meyers
John Ellsley (a Clerk)...............................H. Hunt
Tripper (an Attorney-at-Law).......................>.J. Dunn
Judge of the Court.............................W. Morgan
Sheriff of the Court...........................F. McOsker
Clerk of the Court............................ J.	McGrath
Thompson, Quirk, (Police Officers).'.....A. Ried, R; Lewis John (a Porter).............................-. .D. O’Connell
Foreman of the Jury........................ .........J. Stubbs
; Timid (a Lawyer)...................................J. Ewing
Mr. Otis.....................................E.	Dougherty
Tom Otis...................................  V.	MeKinnon
.	Jurymen, etc.	.	• -
"Epilogue....................................O.	Waterman
. Grand Saltatorial Performance...................... _ .
Closing Remarks............................Very	Rev. E. Sorin
'March for Retiring............./.....N. D. U. Cornet Band
Hurrah for the Juniors! The “golden means ” are sfli ahead. The Minims are small and sharp, the Seniors large and learned, but the Juniors are small, learned, and sharp. -AUbonor to the young men who so generously sacrificed their recreation to our pleasure. The entertainment, as
usual, was opened by the Baridand Orchestra; as we know very little of music, we will riot "presuine to criticise, but would make the suggestion.for the.benefit of those whom it may concern, that less noise should be made, so that those who .wish to hear arid enjoy the sweet strains may do so. The Band and Orchestra also discoursed several pieces between the acts. Honor to them for their zeal and kindness in enlivening the evening's entertainment. E. B. Gambee then came forward and'in the name of the Seniors congratulated Very Rev. Father General upon the successful year just clo-ed, and wished him prosperity and happinessfor the ensuing one Mr. Gambee was followed by Master F. Egan, for the Juniors. Both addresses were well written aud well delivered. “ The Quarrel of Brutus and Cassius ” by Masters Langenderfer and Waferman, was very well performed. The' elocutionary talent of the Juniors.is not yet dead. The farce “ Lt never rains but it poufs”.was the next on the programme. “The parts were 4 well taken, espicially those of Masters- Lange iderfer. Waterman. M<-y< rs, and Rt uben Hutchings. We wonder if “Reub” will resign his lucrative position of potman.
“ Reub,‘ye mustn t tiabt: ye'll git Lutt.”
The farce was followed by the comedy, “ The Peoples Lawyer.” Mast' O. Waterman, as “ Robert Howard, the People’s Lawyer.” excited our admiration. He rendered his part faithfully, so much so that even bis face told us that what he yvas uttering with his lips he felt.in his heart. Willie Myers, as “ Charles Otis,” was really fine,—and no w. nder, sii.ee he was acting not “Charles Olis” but William Meyers. It was bis own nature he was revealing to us. Be it ever thus. Master J. Langenderfer, as “ Sakin Shingle,” was the star of the evening. It was a success. For a boy, he cannot be surpassed He pleased al!.' His conception of his part was truthful, and his acting correct. He has done honor to bis Society and to bis'Deparimeht. ' By his pranks and stories lie-kept all in roars of laughter whenever he appeared. " Jets' so.” Master F. Egun, as “ Mr. Winslow,” also rendered his part well. He always has a good idea of the character hie represents. The same can be said of Master H. Hunt, as “ John Ellsley.” He does well what he does. The other characters were well played, especially those of “Mr. Otis,” E. Dougherty; “Tom Otis,” V. McKinnon; “Tripper, an Attorney;” J. Dunn; “Timid, a Lawyer,” J. Ewing; J. Stubbs, as Foreman of the Jury, and F. McOsker as Sheriff; Masters D. O’Connell and J. McGrath, Mr. Morgan as Judge, and Masters Ried and Lewis, as officers, though they had but little to do, yet did that little well.	~	.
- We cong'a’ulate the Sr. Cecilians upon the>’r success. They have i-dded additional laurels to those already won. TLeir companions of the Eurtern. wmg bad betur look slarp, orthe JuhiorkwilTb’ear away’the''parm.'........
1ST	THE SCHOLASTIC.
' To conclude. In an exhibition, as in every other under-. taking, there must be a ruling spirit. He must be one who will.by his endeavors make the affair-a success.- He does not appear—but his work is there. We are too often - apt while praising the young gentlemen of any Society for thei£work to forget the one by-whom they were trained, the one on whom the burden rests. If the affair ~ is a failure, he receives the censure; why then, when it is a success, omit to give him his due meed of praise ? At .the head of the St. Cecilia Society stands a man who for a long, long time has faithfully and cheerfully directed its affairs. His is a master mind; his, a kind and loving heart. Though well known, we wilfnot mention his name. His the honor, his the glory to be. called the Cecilians’ Chief, the Juniors’ friend. Honor, always, to him tu whom honor is due 1	M------.
Lines to my dear Mother.
• Dost thou love me still fondly, dear mother— Oh say—is thy heart still the same ?
’Round the exile, thy prayer does it hover, To shield him in sadness and pain ?	.
Oh here in this bleak world of sorrow, Thy child pines in anguish, alone, No bright ray of hope cheers the morrow ■ As weeping he thinks of his home.	-
As the shattered bark tossed on the ocean Must yield to the wild angry storm,
So this heart, ’neath its deep wild emotion, Will sink ere the coming of morn.	:
Oh! this sad heart is breaking, dear mother, , Yet fondly it breathes thy loved name,
Oh ! there does it one hope discover, One smile—tho’we ne’er meet again.	-	•
J. P. D.
On Sigh Oli Art.
• Gentle Reader, has your bosom ever palpitated sym-phonetically to the strains of Schumann,—has your diaphragm ever throbbed in unison with the chords of Schubert, or have your kidneys ever been affected by the melody of Schu fly ? If, so you can appreciate the- following article; and even if not, you can read it anyhow, . because we do not intend to confine ourselves to music.
In fact, the claims of painting and statuary have recently forced themselves upon us to the exclusion of harmonics. Having been less occupied than usual with eating during the Christmas Holidays—not that the claims of grub were less pressing, but that the time for the satisfaction thereof was somewhat extended—when the larger cavity had been reduced to a plethoric state, those smaller ones through which things visible find their way to the mind sought relief from vacuity. Under the red and green canopies which form the interfenestral adornments of our refectory, what classical subjects will be eventually placed ? Classical we have no doubt they will be, and such as to elevate the tone of the refectory. The Nine Muses would do very well for the vicinity of the round table, whose denizens are ■o high up in their course that they cannot eat much.. Further down we might have Hercules with his club and lion-skin, or the Queen of the Amazons arrayed in that simple military garb, the “ Right Shoulder Shift.” The broader^compartments might accommodate groups of two
or three—the Laocoon—the Centaurs acd Lapithae— Apollo flaying Marsyas—the latter subject would beadmir-	,
ably adapted to astonish the weak nerves of new-comers,	:
and give them an appetite for dinner. But the progress of art in our neighborhood is somewhat slow—we wish we could add — “and sure.” .The drop-curtain—perhaps it were more prudent to drop it, and yet, like other tabooed- r subjects of conversation, dropping it only brings it more vividly before the mind. But, as we were about to remark, the lineaments of the immortal -Washington—isn’t- there, though, a slight incongruity in making Washington a subject to be dropped?—perhaps it was this consideration	।
that has protracted so long the suspension of the work, while, on the other hand, there is nothing incongruous in	4
the suspension of a drop curtain. But no doubt the 22d of February is the most appropriate day for bringing the hero to light. We are anxious to see the realization of our artist’s conception. The little bird, too, that has been so long without a mate, should find one, according to Shak-speare, in the same month, although an American February scarcely awakens the genial emotions which pertain to the same latitudes on the other side of the Atlantic.	1	:
But let us revert again to music, our original theme, for surely the name of Art cannot be 'refused to the productions of Mose Art, although it has seemingly become fashionable to ascribe music to chants rather than to design. It is not for us to decide,—we always follow the ton in music. Chinese music has been put down in San Francisco as a public nuisance, but if we were in Pekin we should sip our souchong and listen to it with the same urbanity which it is our wont to display in the lager beer saloons of Fort Wayne, when the vast barrel-organs which form attractive appurtenances to those establishments are	1
set in motion. In fact, it is only a question of taste, and de disgustibus non est putandum. Music on the Wayne" is not indeed a pleasing subject for reflection, and though they like theirs forte, in our heart of hearts we confess- a desire to take ours un poco piu piano; Haydn—we have a bad cold and a slight attack of catarrh now, and are therefore able to pronounce his name in one syllable—but did our readers ever take up a musical monthly that "did not contain that little story about Haydn’s bet with Mozart which the latter won by using his long nose instrumentally? We were always surprised that Haydn was so easily “ roped in,” for who is there that is not familiar with the music of the nasal organ, enlivening as it does . what would otherwise be the silent "watches of the night? In fact the nose may be called the Handel of the human countenance—so remarkable are its harmonic powers. As for the silent watches of the night, however, our experience is that watches always tick loudest when you are nervous	1
and can’t sleep. .Why is this? ............. " • Q. -
W. E. Richlen, in a recent speech, pays a most delicate tribute to Greeley, with regard to his purity of life. He says: “In thirty years of pretty intimate acquaintance, I never heard him use a word that would bring the slightest flutter of crimson to the purest cheek that womanhood	I
ever unveiled to society. I do not believe he ever told, or could be induced to listen to, a vulgar story. And this almost superhuman purity of character is perhaps what has made him a favorite among talented and refined ‘ women.” ’	.
THE SCHOL A ST I C	/	130

The Official Guide of the Chicago and Alton Railroud for December is a great improvement on the railway guides we have had the ill fortune to buy from the boy that brings around candy, cakes and figs and “ literatoor of the day.” It is neat and handy in form, reliable in the information it gives concerning the movements of trains, ’ whereas the old guides were rendered bulky by matter altogether useless to ninety-nine out of one hundred travellers, and might tell you the correct time of trains, but then just as like as not they mightn’t. Again, instead of stale jokes and descriptions of scenery in stilted style, the editor of the Official Guide has commenced publishing, as reading matter during the long hours of a railway trip, the reprint of some standard works, beginning with Browning’s Pauline. But the editor speaks so justly of the Guide, that we give his own words:
. “ This plan of combining high class literature with railway time cards is adopted tn the belief that the travelling public will prefer works of permanent value, and which appeal to the highest culture and most refined taste, to scraps of current railway history, often inaccurate and seldom possessing the slightest interest to the general reader, siories with morals which are mostly immoral, and sad old jokes which lead a vagabond and wandering existence, and are compelled to do duty in every printing < ffice. In that belief this Guide is undertaken and will be couducted.”
Another great advantage presented by the Guide is that instead of being sold for fifty cents it is distributed gratis to the number of 10,000 copies.
. A Word to Music Pupils,
Pupils should remember first and always that theirs is not a path of roses—that in musical education as in other branches no real solid advancement can be made without a corresponding amount of work. Remember that whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well. Remember that “pieces” are only the recreation, the “recess,” and that the learning and playing of them, particularly at the outset., should occupy but an inconsiderable portion of the time.	'
Remember that your teacher, if competent, (and if incompetent the first thing is to discharge him.) knows far better than you possibly can what is best for you, and do not set up your ignorant judgment in opposition to his, by objecting to his system, criticising the pieces that are given you, because they are not “ pretty,” etc. Listen carefully to any and all hints he may make about your style of playing, and in short, follow his directions implicitly. Do not shirk the daily practice of five-finger exercises, etc., under the mistaken idea that you have progressed beyond them. This will new be the case. The great players of the world, those who delight thousands by their wonderful abilities, are the very ones who devote most time to the practice of the simplest five-finger exercises, for these exercises give a suppleness to the hand and an independence to the fingers that nothing 61se will.	•
Encourage your.teacher by letting him see.that you have faith in him, that you appreciate his "efforts in your behalf, and that you follow his directions implicitly.— . Brainards' Musical World.	•
An effort was was made to m.ake skating on the upper lake by damming up the “ outlet ” and punching two large holes in the'ice. It failed.
Vacation.	.
The days are swiftly flying,	,
And as they glide along
• My hopes fly still more swiftly, -So eager and so strong; '-	•“
The days are swiftly flying, -	•	:
The. time will quickly come,
When I’ll pack trnnk and satchel.	'
And then pack off for home;
Then farewell to the play-ground, That dear, beloved place,
Whose sandy waste and greensward - -My form no more shall grace;
Farewell to the base-ball field. Where oft I’ ve caught the fly;
Farewell, dear fellow-students, <) how is thatfor high ?. „	•: - ’
There’s a mist before my eyes, :.
... A flutt’ring at my heart, ' Together we have merry been, But- now we all-must part.	’
, Of this we’ll think hereafter,	’
When grief our hearts make sore. And wish that we were boys again,- -To have such sport once more.
J.A.H.
Mr. Froude’s Departure.—The circumstance that Mr. Froude sailedfrom New York for England on Saturday last will almostnecessarily,be construed as a confession that the discussion which his lectures created had become uncomfortably warm for him. It is wellknown that Mr. Froude came over to this country with the intention of making a much longer stay, and that he proposed to make a lecture tour through-the prominent cities. He certainly cannot complain that, he has been discourteously treated. He was heartily welcomed on his arrival;- he has-been handsomely entertained in the literary circles of New York and Boston; his lectures have been largely attended everywhere. The subject of his discourses was such as to to bring out criticism and controversy in a land of free discussion. Mr. Meline (who is entitled to the credit of meeting Mr. Froude on purely historical grounds), Father Burke and Mr. Wendell Phillips .were certainly formidable opponents; and it is hard to restrain the thought that Mr.: Froude’s sudden and unexpected departure is an a<£nowl-’ edgment that the victory has been theirs.—Chicago Tribune, December 30.	-
In answer to the urgent entreaties of friends in New York, Mr. Froude finds that his pressing domestic engagements will permit him to remain in New York one week’ longer.—Ibid. ,
Personal.—While on a short visit to our friends at' Alton, Ill., a few days ago, we spent a very pleasant evening with John W. .Coppinger, an old student of Notre Dame, now one of the most able and successful young lawyers in Southern Illinois. Mr- Coppinger graduated with First Honors in the Commercial Course at Notre Dame in 1868—afterwards applied himself to the study of law, and for the past year or so has had quite an extensive' practice in. the city of Alton. . .We are pleased to know that Mr. Coppinger intends visiting his Alma Mater at the Annual Commencement next June; we anticipate for him a most hearty welcome.	C-
140	T
The Suhuiastic, Published every Week during Term Time, at NOTRE DAM^ UNIVERSITY.
AIT communications	should pe eent to Editor Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana.	’
. '	TKJ^MS:	‘
One year............................ ..$2	00
One session (5 months)................. 1 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at tiie Students' Offite.	.	’
Ezandxi&tioii.
Now that the Christmas holidays have been pleasantly closed by the S. C. P. A., all minds are, of ought to be, intent on the coming Semi-anpu^l Examination. We presume that the greater part of the students are. ready for it, and will stand by their guns.qnd never think of shirking a duty they owe to themselves, their, professors and their parents. .
To themselves.they owe the preservation of their reputation as diligent and hardworking students; and those who .may mot enjoy that enviable reputation should surprise their professors and parents, and perhaps themselves, by comingout bravely, castipg aside both fear and sloth, and passing a good examination. After all, it is only the real student that secures a firm hold in the traditions of a college. Some without being diligent may “ distinguish ” themselves, not always in the most desirable way, and may live for a few years in the memory of those who remain; but those who have a permanent bold pn the memory of old residenters distinguished themselves as diligent or successful students, no matter what the rest of their record may have been.
-And certainly the students owe some return to the de-vptedness and care of .their professors. Those who are engaged.in teaching in the college h^ve chosen that honorable profession from a love of it, from the high estimation they have of its dignity, and the conviction they , have that as teachers of the young men of this country they are fulfilling one of the noblest missions, that God has given to man. They are not men who are teaching for a few years to gain money so as to enable them to seek some other position in life, they do not perfunctorily perform their task as a thing they must do for a few years and-then be happily released from a distasteful labor. No indeed. They have devoted their whole life to the work of education. For the past, mapy have taught right along in the college from the year they graduated; for the future, their life will be spent in the same labor of love as well as of duty. Such men deserve something, in return, from their pupils—they deserve not only the respect and affec; tionate regard that the students of Notre Dame have, as a class, always manifested towards their professors, but it is also their due that that regard be proved by attention to their advice, by diligence in following the course indicated by each professor, arid especially by giving the professors the satisfaction of seeing .their clades pass 'a good examination/	.	..
No less are the.students bound in. duty to their parents and friends to do their utmost to pass an excellent examination and show that they have not lost their time, or if
they have lost some time, that they have made it up by redoubled exertions. No matter whether parents be wealthy or only in moderate circumstances, students are obligi d in justice not to squander their parents’ money by neglecting to make use of time and advantages which their parents have paid for. But to students with truly noble hearts, it seems to us that the greatest inducement for them to do their level best at next Examination is the disappointment their parents will feel at receiving a poor report, and the inexpressible joy they will have on receiving a good report of the able manner their sons have sustained themselves in the Semi-annual Examination.
Bi OS. A.
The S. C.P. Association’s Entertainment was a successful endeavor on the part of the members to give a delightful evening to the- Faculty and Students and the invited guests. An excellent negative quality of the entertainment was that the programme of the evening was not overcrowded and the whole affair was not too long. The excellent positive qualities were numerous, and we expect a full account of them. Without intending to make anj’ invidious comparisons, and without detracting in the least from the praise due to all the young lads engaged in the three distinct dramatic performances, who all did well, we must return our thauks to Solon Shingle for several hearty laughs he gave us—we delight in a hearty laugh • that breaks forth irresistably, even though it bring down upon us the frowns or piteous looks of compassion of those less favored individuals who cannot or who dare not give a good round sonorous laugh from the heart up to the ceiling. Solon did his part so naturally, with so much grace, in spite of his boots, and with such a.keen appreciation of . the humor of the rofc that we were delighted with him. Just so.	'
Young Langenderfer, as Mr. Smithers, in the little farce, reminded us of a talented lad, James Kennedy, of California, who several years performed the same part. To say that Langenderfer did as well as Jimmie is great praise to the former, for all who remember. Jimmie, now gone to his home above, do so with no less admiration of his talent than affection for the amiable qualities of his amiable, heart.
Our Boz.
Want of.space prevents us from noticing in detail the contributions which we have received. We thank those who have favored us, and if all their contributions do not, appear this week it must be attributed to the fact that the Scholastic is not six times as large as it is.
Rev.F. FbSibe of St. Vincent’s was present at the.enter-talnment last,Tuesday. .
The best “ paper ” read before the Conference this year was the one by Rev. J- O’Connell last Wednesday. * '
Although the weather has been so cold the past weeks, many are thoroughly convinced that this is still the fall iseason.	•	.■
THE~RL7Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne, in a letter to Very Rev. Father Provincial, says: “ Please express to the students my sincere thanks for liberal Christmas collection.”
THE S 0 H O L A STIC .	LAL
.. The cepot cf the Lake Shore Railway in Chicago covers half an acre of ground; so says an exchange. We thought it larger. .
Our thanks are due to Hon. Frederick Watts for' the Monthly Report of the Department of Agriculture for November and December, 1872.	- _
Madame la Mareqhale MacMahon is the President of the'Association of Our Lady of Lourdes. She is a Svoth lady, and a convert to the Catholic faith.
Rev. F. Condon has returned from Green Bay, to which genial clime he hied himself with Rev. F. Cooney to pass the Christmas holidays and give a mission.
It is claimed that the L. S. and M. S. Railway is the greatest postal route in the United States. There are fifty men employed on the eight mail cars tba, go over the road daily, and the average number of letters on the trains going East is 180,0C0 every day.
The Little Schoolmate, a Catholic juvenile monthly, edited by young folks, issued from the New York Catholic Protectory, makes its appearance in enlarged form and' new dress. We wish success to the Schoolmate and to the . excellent institution from which it comes.
The first No. of Vol. Ill For Everybody contains, besides other attractions, several excellent lit In'graphs. Two of them “ Grandpapa, Mordaunt and I,” and the ‘ Holy Family”—after Leonatdo da Vinci, are particularly fine; the “New Year” is gracious; while “Santa Claus” is alone enough to make a fortune For Everybody.
The Catholic Child's Sunday Companion is another littlejournal issued by one of the many noble Catholic institutions of charity, that are (not springing up, but) steadily growing up like robust saplings destined to be sturdy oaks. It is published in St. Mary’s Industrial School, Carroll, Baltimore Co., Md., and is edited by Rev. Michael Dauscb, A. M., whose literary merits are excelled only by his indefatigable labors in the cause of Christian charity.
Good Music.
We have received from J. Fischer & Bro., Dayton, Ohio, the following pieces of Music, which we can commend as well worth buying:
Salve Regina, composed by Max. Stadler. 40 cts.
Six Mottets tor Offertory or Benediction S. A. T. B. $1.00.
O Salutaris.
Jesu Duleis Memoria.
O Bone Jesu.	•
O Sacrum Convivium.	.
Ave Maria, Gratia Plena. .
Gaude Maria Virgo. Composed by M. Gerum.
The Messrs. Fischer & Bro. deserve the highest praise for endeavoring to introduce this style of music into this country. We asked a thorough musician, whose conscientious reserve in-bestowing praise is as well known as his musical ability, to give his opinion on these pieces, and he gave it in writing, thus:
“ This is truly good music, in the true Church style. Its insertion in the Catalogue of the St. Cecilia Society in Germany is ample recommendation.	'
These pieces, we may add, are in the style of Palestrina, and not difficult. We would like to hear some of them executed by our choir.	’
“Pleasures of Youth.” A selection of airs, dances, etc., for the Piano. $1.00.
Just the thing for beginner;. .
Fly-Catchcs.
“ We rise to explain.” It has been objected that there are no dies to catch, and that instead of catching flies we nabbed a rat now and then. This, we claim, is a most pernicious charge; and should it fall to our lot Io find-him who made it, we will make him fly, or throw him up and. make a “ Fly Catch ” of him. We did not choose to adopt Salmagundi as the name of our column, for Tony having become,poetic, said:	..
“ Salmagundi	-
Was bom on Mondy.” —
Now^we don’t propose to have it celebrated ;in rhyme what day we were born on, nor that everybody should know, for we would then be.called upon to go for “rec. ” every Monday, which doesn’t suit our retiring disposition. Again, we expect to translate our notes in Greek some moonshiny day, and do not care much about writing “lepadotemaxoselaxogaleokranioleipsanodrimupotrimmat-osilphiopiraomelitokatakexumenokixlc-pikossnphophatto-peristeralektruonoptegkephalokigklopeleioJagoosiraiobap-hetraganopterugon ” everytime we wish to mention the heading of our remarks. And then again if we happen to make an omission, it can be advanced as sufficient apology that the best of players do sometimes muf.
Classes have commenced.
Another Lecture will soon be due.
The clock hasn’t much regard for duty.
Turf is used for fuel in the steam-house. '
Several new students are among the arrivals.
Make good resolutions now at the beginning of the. new year.
It is time to begin to think of the Examination and, to. prepare for it.	- -
The “'Life of Washington” has been resumed in the. Seniors’ refectory.	- -
The clock commenced the new year well, but took a rest on the second day.	■
Not much dancing during the holidays, owing to the want of some one to play.
Our friend took a snooze the other evening, quite to the amusement of his neighbors.	’
The Minims are always happy. Of course they had a merry Christmas and a happy New Year.
Reading at table was suspended in the Seniors’ refectory during the holidays, and “recreation at table” took its place.
Mr. John W. Stalet, commercial graduate of the clasa. of’72. is now actively engaged as first book-keeper in one of the business houses of St. Louis. We congratulate him on his advancement, and hope success will attend him through life. -	.
Health.—The sanitary condition of the . inmates of Notre Dame is at present excellent, though, it is feared that spring-fever may appear in a few weeks. But the. epi-zbotic has left the country, and the saw-horse is all rightr otherwise than having stiff legs.	„
. Walks in.the Field.—No one has ventured out of the play-hall to break the walk around the field, which is .so much.frequented and enjoyed in summer; all, as of one
142	. TH ESC H O L A S TIC.
.accord, remain near the fire. Though it must be acknowledged that the fresh air will hurt no one, still nature will have its way.
Flue gave way.—On Monday last we were not a little startled on hearing some one announce that the new boiler had “ bustedwe immediately proceeded to the scene and found that all our excitement had been caused by the giving way of one of the flues. The pressure upon the boiler was one and a half atmosphere.
Presentation.—In our notes of last issue we omitted to mention the presentation made to Prof. Lyons by the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association. __It consisted of a fine sofa and a costly easy cliair. The presentation was in every-way worthy of the Society, and well may the Professor feel proud of his St. Cecilians.
Students Returning.—The students have nearly all returned and prepared for hard woik. All give us testimony, both by word and looks, of having enjoyed the happy season. It does one good to have a pleasant time occasionally and free the mind from anxious cares, duties, lessons, etc. But the good time has passed^ and work is before us.
Recreation amusements are of course indoor and few; handball and dancing are the principal ones. The members of the Ssrcieties amuse themselves by reading, an amusement vvhich we cannot help admiring. Skating is ir-detd anxiously watched. The Minims, never at a loss for sport, use their sidewalk fo.r-a skating-park. Why are not all equally ingenious?	‘
Skating.—The lake has been covered with snow during ■ the past two .weeks, so that skating has scarcely been thought of, except by those “lovers of the spdrt” who .cleared away the snow and enjoyed themselves to the full extent of the dear space. We have had some splendid ekat-ing though; but taking it “ all around ” it has not been sufficient to keep the skates bright.
Gymnastic Club.—Some one has advanced the idea of getting up a gymnastic club. We have heard no particulars regarding it, and are not therefore prepared to give a full report. Perhaps it would be a good thing; still the winter is well nigh half over, and iu summer most persons prefer the outdoor games to the exercises of the gymnasium ; however, we do not speak in discouragement.
Tse Band, unlike the other Societies of the house, has not ceased to have its meetings and rehearsals. On Christmas and on New Years’Day its harmonious notes mingled with those of the organ to call to our minds the holiness of the days and the occasion. On Christmas Eve it played at midnight Mass. The Band is in a very flourishing condition and has many fine players amongst its members.	.
The Societies.—The holidays, though they caused the meetings of the Societies to be for a lime suspended, yet only served to add new vigor to them. They have commenced the new year well; may they continue to improve to the end. Isn’t it about time to be thinking of a literary entertainment? Philodemics, are you behind? St. Edward’s, will you allow yourselves to be surpassed by your predecessors?
St. Mary’s Lake—On Saturday last many of the Juniors and some of the Seniors • betook themselves to the lower lake to take a skate. They maintained that there
was skating there, and so there was, but frequently we have seen as’good on land. The ice, however, is very thick on the lakes, and there is no danger of breaking through. Thus far we have had no excellent skating, but it may yet come.
Architectural.—Bro. Peter called us into his room the other day and showed us the plan of a splendid new church for Lowell. Though, as he said, it was but a rough sketch, it certainly was well executed, and if the plan be followed, Lowell can boast of a finer-proportioned church than South Bend. He also showed us a plan of the addition to the present college building, which was well delineated.
Improvements.—The new boiler is inclosed in a new wooden building, temporary no doubt, and is now helping to keep the cold without. The Seniors’ play-hall too has been undergoing repairs; it has been lined on the inside, and the comfort of the room is much increased; good firemen and plenty of w’ood make it answer well its purpose. The rumor was afloat that the iron pillars were to be put in the refectory during the holidays, but this probably was a false report.
The Exhibition —On the evening of Tuesday last the St Cecilians gave another entertainment, consisting of two comedies, one of which was the far-famed “ Solon Shingle,” and the other, “It never rains but it pours.” They wCfe both well rendered, and the characters were well taken. Speaking of exhibitions, we often think Columbus is slighted in this regard; perhaps it is because his birthday is not known.
Arrivals.
Alfred Horne.	Montevideo, South America.
Marshall D. Blake,	D.-nver, Colorado.
Mania Allen,	Nashville Tennessee. .
Albert A. Allen, .	Coldwater, Michigan.
Cassius M. Proctor,	Elkhart, Indiana.
David A. Root,	Batavia, Illinois.
Hugo Hirsch,	Chicago, Illinois.
Henry Zeitler,	E'khart, Indiana.
Gustavus A. Hale,	Bunker Hill, Illinois.
Evan T. Chalfant,	Notre Dame, Indiana,
Benjamin Alford,	Goshen, Indiana.
James Burke,	Chicago, Illinois.
Frank Carlin,	Chicago,Tllinoi«.
Charles Furer,	Woodstock, Illinois.
Charles H. Vinson,	South Bend, Indiana.
Charles O’Connor,	Chicago, Illinois.
Albert Crunkilton,	Defiance, Ohio.
Boll	of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week preceding the given date.]
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1872.
Junior Department. . .
F. Austin, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, C. Black, C. Burger, R; Beaudoin, J. Caren, P.' Corbett,- B. Caseyj E. Dougherty, J. Devine, J. Dore, W. Dexter, F. Dowe, W. Fletcher, G. Gross/ W. Gross,' J. Grace, T. Graves, H. Hunt,
THE SCHOLASTIC.	143
E. Holt, C. Hake, W. Hake, W. Haney, V. Hansen, IL Hoffman, M. Hilliard, L Hibben, R. Hutchings, A. Kleine, R. Kelly, W. Kelly, W. Kinzie, E. Knowles, W. Meyer, F. McOsker, J. Mullarky, W. McMahon, J. Ewing, S. Marks, 'E. Mohl, J. McGrath, W. Morgan, E. Milburn, V. McKin-,"non,' N. Mooney, J. McGinnis, L. Munn, E. Ohmer, W. ; Pollard, J. Quill, 0. Rugerr J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, A. ‘ Schmidt, F. Sweger, H. Shephard, A. Schiffer, H. Scbal-ler, O. Tong, L. Whitaker, S. Wise, J. Wanbaugb, A. Ried, H. Kinley.
J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
- Mr. Editor : I perceive that through some, to me unaccountable, oversight on the part of your reporter, you failed in your last No. to tell us about Prof. D. A. Clarke’s beautiful New Year’s address to the Director, of Studies, Rev. M. B. Brown, and of the latter’s elegant response. We seldom, or maybe never, heard a neater address than Prof. Clarke’s, and his delivery thereof was unexceptionable. The young gentleman has evidently good oratorical powers, and..we hope to hear him in a lecture before long. Father Brown was, in our opinion, very fortunate, as he nearly always is, in the choice of words in his response. Long may they both wave, and long may the beautiful custom of congratulating friends on New Year’s Day be continued, and long may Notre Dame’s present Faculty and Officers remain on earth to be congratulated!
Obscuritas.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
offense. In a murder case the assignment would, of course, be for life. When Indiana passes this bilk and other States imitate her example, there will be less insanity—at least in the courts—than there is at present.—Exchange.	_
Luck and Labor.—People complain of their bad luck, when they ought to blame their own want of wisdom and action. Mr. Cobden, a distinguished writer, in England, thus wroe about luck and labor: Luck is everything waiting for something to turn up. Labor, with keen eyes and strong will, will turn up something. Luck lies in bed and wishes the postm m would briag him news ot a h gacy. Labor turns out at six o’clock, and with busy pen or ring- • ing hammer lays the foundation of competence. Luck whines. Labor whistles. Luck relies on chances. Labor on character. Luck slips down to indigence. Libor strides upward to independence.
Advertise in The Scholastic.
We have concluded to take a limited number of choice advertisements this year, should our business friends conclude to patronize us in this department.	-11	*
This arrangement.-however, will not interfere with the reading matter, as we propose printing the advertisements on a separate sheet, to serve as a cover to the present Scholastic. This will be done as soon as a sufficient number of advertisements are secured.
ADVERTISING BATES.
1 patje..............$150	।	14 column....... $~30
1 column.............. 80	column............ 18
y. column............. 50	11-lfi column....... 10
Advertisements fora shorter time than one year, at proportionate rates. Address Editor Scholastic, Notie Dame, Indiana.
St. Mary’s Academy, January 9, 1873.
The Semi-annual Examination now occupies the earnest attention of the pupils. Past festivities are almost forgotten in the eagerness to make a good preparation for the coming event. There will be no “ Roll of Honor ” nor Class reports this week, as the rules were in some points so modified as to give the pupils the relaxation they needed to enable them to begin with renewed energy the closing labors of the present term.
New pupils entering at this season fall into ranks and routine with great ease, and are very seldom troubled with homesickness. Five months seem a very short time before the grand “ Commencement Day,” and then rewards, honors, and long vacation. With these cheering prospects ahead, the second term is always a very cheerful time.
The present beautifully clear weather and snow-clad earth give a fine opportunity for the exhilarating exercise of sleighing and sledding, of which opportunity the young folks take every advantage, and find themselves rewarded with glowing cheeks and fine spirits.
The few absentees who are prolonging their vacation beyond the limits will find their companions who remained here during the holidays disposed to exult over them when .they see the advantages derived from devoting to study the time that the absentees are giving to “ having a little more fun.”
A bill before the Legislature of Indiana provides that whenever an accused person is acquitted upon the plea of temporary insanity, the judge of the court in which said acquittal takes place shall assign him to a lunatic- asylum for a term of years proportionate to the enormity of the
She Uhria,”
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University. Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
. .	TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the > ear. •
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
, For 2 j ears $5, iu advance.
For 1 year, $3. in advance.	’	,
Single copies 10 cents.	,
To clubs <>t ten Mib.-cribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ate MaEUa tor $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave MaBiA for $45, iu advance.	.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria foi $50, in advance.
The postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE THXRTY-TWO PAGES EVERY BONTH.
81.00 PER AJNNTTM.
Premiums for Clubs.
- -	Send for a Specimen of
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar to the Editor,	,
BEV. WILLIAM BYRNE, -	,	’'	'Crusader Office, Boston, Masa.
k k
144
THE SCHOL AS TIC
$20,000.
TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN PREmiums,- for Distribution among the $2 OO Subscribers of the	,
CINCINNATI
[ wood’s househo.ld Magazine.
1 jVG-EEVTjS may learn something|greatly to their advantage ‘I and obtain specimens and full particulars free, by addressing .
I	'	• Wood’s?Litebaby and Art Agency,
I	‘ Newburgh, New York.
t
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line
I ^SfRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, hear Mad-| CSV Street Bridge, as follows:	'
ARRIVE.
IE AVE.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line- -	-----
Kansas Ciry_ Fast Express, yi_a The number of Premiums are al wavs increased when the num- I	Jacksonville, 111., and Louisi-. ,
her of names exceed t he number calculated upon.	• . WeS,‘ Lacon and Washington -
We now offer the following:	I Express (Western Division)
- J I™8*®	Night’...
20 Cash Premiums of $100 Each, -	- 2.000 Express. via Main’ Line, _ .
... 09 Stem-winding Watches, $80 Each, 4,800 Sb Eire's? vS^^un^S
100 Cash Premiums of $20 Each, -	' 2,ooo | „ also via Jacksonville ‘Division
—,.A	. n •	« X«a	Kansas City Express..via Jackson-
200 fash Premiums Of $10 Each, -	- 2,aoo viii,Ill., ana Louisiana..Mo.	....	-
100 Cash Premiums of $5 Each, -	- ’ - . 5oo I * Except Sunday. + On Sunday rims to' Springfield only. '$ Ex-
100 Cash Premiums Of $3 Each, -	- 3oo I C<^he ^inlv road^runniug 3 Express Trains to St. Louis caily, and
.JSfS* f renrams «f S2 Bach, - - - 2oo
1270 Miscellaneous Prem., $2 to $10 Each, 7,2oo. JAMBS charlton,	j. c. mcmullin.
Making a 'total of TITO THOUSAND Premiums, I Gen’l Pass, and Ticket A^en^ ■ Genu Superintendent,
Worth 1WEXTF HIOUSIND DOLLARS. !
Every subscriber who remits §2.00 for a year’s subscription will have bis name registered, and will be furnished by return mail a n-cript giving the date and number to which his name is registered, said number being represented by a duplicate iu the distribution.	"
Ag -nis sending 10 names and §20.00 at one time receive a free paper one year and have their uatues registered as participants for premiums.
Trains with PMman'* Palace Carfare run tion Blanks sent Irec to persons desiring them. Address I	between Chicago.-Pittsburgh Philadelphia and New
'	FARAN McLEAN, I	York without Change.
■ Cincinnati, Ohio. I 1st train leaves Chicago 9 Ol) p. m i Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* '	1 2d train	••	5.15 p. in “	. “	6 41 a. ni*
3rd train “	••	9.00 p ni |	“	“	11.33 p. m*
• Connections-at Crestline with trains North and South, and at Mannrficld with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
i J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen'I Manager, Pittsliurgb.
< 30 a.m I w GWINNER. Gen - Patts and Ticket Av’t Philadelphia.
J”’*"? a-m F. R. MYEK8. Gen’I Pass and .Ticket. Ag’t Pittsburgh.
5.30 p.m u. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l'Pass. Agent, unicago.
9.20 a.m । * s«ond daJ'- '	’
12 25 p.m 7.10 p m
IN APRIL, 1873
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
n18w6 -
NILES I SO UTH BEND R.R
Leave Niles,
Leave South Bend,
GOING SOUTH.
6.50 a m. Arrive South Bend, 9 35 a m	" - “
4.5<i p.m.	“	“
. GOING NORTH.
8.4<> a.m. i Arrive Niles, 11.45 a.m. ”
6 30 p.m. | .	.?
SUNDAY TRAINS. Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. 1 Leave South Bend, ••	“	5.30 p.m. J	“
10.00 a.m
6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1344. enlarged in 1866. and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to' five hundred Students.	.	_
-.Situated near the Michigan Southern 4 Northern Indiana Railroad,
it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
'	- - ’ "	TERMS:' ■	' r ’ .	„ ;
Matriculation Fee, -	- .-	-	-	-	-	-	.	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition < Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
-	‘ ”	.......... - - - -	-	. ip op
12 50
• 10 00
2 00 - .15 00 5 00
- 1G 00
French. German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, Instrumental Music, -------Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	-
Use of Violin, ---------Drawing, -
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus,. - . -	- . .
Graduation Fee —Commercial. $5Scientific, $8;. Classical.'
Students who spend their Sommer Vacation at the College are .
charged, extra
35 00
Payment* to be made invariably in advance.^	.
Class Books. Stationery, etc , at current prices.
. Tne First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second
on the 1st of February.	•
For further particulars, address
Bev. A. XsSMONN'XSR, C.S.C.,
President.
•8:00 pM
♦4:30 pan.
.♦4:33 p.m.
♦9:40 a.m.
t6:30 p.m. *-1:33 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 57:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
'PfXNSTLV.^Ii.1 A CENTRAL DOUBLE TB&fe RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY
AUTUHN ARR4XGE.HEXT.
fJtRAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
.	.	. - GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.
“.	“	12 25p m.
“	“	9.15 p	m.
”	“	12 35 a.	m".
“	“	-	8.2<i p.	in.
“	“	4.35 p.	m.
- . . GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. ni. “	2 55 a m. •
"	“	5 00 a. ,m.
“	“	605 p m.
»	.“	. 6.37 a. m.
EAST. .
Arrive at Buffalo' 4.05 a. in
-	•“	: “ • 4.05 a. ni
“	“ . 135 p.m
•	“	“	5 3»n. m
Runs to Elkhart.
“	“	. 8.20 a. m. . i . . .	“
Making connection with all trains West and North.
WEST. ■ .	’	’
Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p.
••	,r‘	6.50	a.
“	“	8.2o	a.
“	"	940	p.
. -V	“	10 30 a.
m m m m nt
12.33 p. m
4®- For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.	'
IKS- Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than
South Bend time.....	,
J. H. DEVERTUX' General Manager.'Cleveland, Ohio. CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent. Cleveland. ' F. E. MORSE, General Western^ Passenger Agent.
J W. Cart, General Ticket Agenll*CleveIan<l, Ohio.
J. S. Nellis. .Ticket Agent, SontluBend. ;	■ .	.
J, M. ToLCHAItD, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
.	To L&fa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.b9 p. ni.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a. m.
Freights,’ 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
— Going Sooth—Express iassenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a.m.: 9J25p. m.
Freights,1.00 a.m.; 448 a.'m.	' H. S. CANIFF, Agent.