
The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS
Volume VII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 21, 1874.	Number 2&
b
J
1 1
ij F. rj
J I-’ f
u
I)
a
Use and. not Abuse-
Governor Lowe, speaking of the miracle of changing water into wine, said:
“ Now if wine therefore was an evil of itself, if the use of wine was a sin in itself, our Lord could not have done this, because God cannot be the author of evil. I mention this only to show you that we must carefully discriminate between the use and the abuse of those things which are placed before us in this world. And hence we must not be Pharisees if we find a man taking his glass, and we saying “ Thank God, I am not like unto this publican.” We must not set ourselves up as censors of public morals, nor undertake to condemn a man for the use of wine. Wine—even a glass of liquor—is not sinful, and in your effort you must be careful to take the principle on a solid foundation, as I shall endeavor to show. But, then, there next comes in a very great principle that regulates the conscience of every man, and it is this: that although a thing may be in itself perfectly innocent, yet you are told that even that thing may become wholly criminal if you recognize in it the approximate cause or the occasion of sin.
“Let us illustrate this: It is no sin for a young man to seek the society of virtuous and pious and accomplished young ladies; on the contrary, every father of a family, as I myself am, is anxious to see his young son associate with such pious and virtuous ladies. It is a restraint upon his bad passions; it tends to cultivate his manners; it tends to refine his habits, to make a gentleman and a Christian man of him. But suppose that in their example, on one occasion, that young man should discover that association with them was the approximate occasion of sin, the cause or temptation to sin, he is instantly obliged to desert their society, and to give it up.
“ So, an innocent game of cards is not criminal. A man may play a game of cards without offending God. But if you discover that the uncontrollable spirit of gambling takes possession of your mind and thoughts, and .become the approximate cause of sin, then you are obliged never to touch a pack of cards any more than you would touch a scorpion or a snake. [Applause.]
“The thing, then, which might in itself be innocent you are to avoid if it be a proximate occasion of sin. On peril cf damnation, you are never to touch it.
“ So with dancing. We all know that in the old Catholic countries dancing was very common, even after the evening service in the church in the village; when in those happy days the hardy old patriarchs favored the exciting sports of the young people—such as were known to Abraham and the patriarchs of old—the patriarchal old figure, with the white hair falling upon the shoulders, would take his seat upon the greensward, the old fathers and mothers
would sit around, and the young folks would come out to dance their virtuous, decent dances—those respectable, old-time country reels—in the presence of the pastor and fathers and mothers. The Church smiled upon it; it was a good exercise and a happy outflow of the heart. But suppose that that young man or woman found that there was a cause or temptation to sin in it, instantly they were bound in duty, if they were imperilling their eternal salvation, to quit the occasion of sin.
“ Thus we find, my friends, that in all those things of life, those things that are not in themselves criminal, and those things which are permissible—which may be used and not abused—we find that whether they be wrong or right depends entirely upon the action, and upon the conscience of the individual.
“ So it is in regard to the use of intoxicating liquor. A man may for forty years take his glass of whiskey, or glass of wine, and commit no sin before God or man. But, if he discovers that it endangers his moral nature, that it becomes a temptation beyond his control—that it places him in danger of becoming a drunkard—that it impairs the duty that he owes to his family—and is the immediate cause of sin, he is bound to abstain from it as he would from association with a fiend.’ ” [Applause.]
State Schoolism Again.
The Buffalo Union says: An American and a Protestant (for we think he so avowed himself in his first communication on this, subject) has written a second time to the Clinton Democrat on the all-important matter of State school-ism. In the course of this communication, he says:
“Although I think the public are not, at present, in a temper to accept the truth on this question, nevertheless it is not expedient that the truth should be lost sight of. The advocates of the public schools must not be permitted to flatter themselves that they have right and reason on their side, as well as the State support and the people’s money. The arguments of Gerrit Smith are not to be dismissed with the bland assertion that their author is a visionary. He may be a dreamer, but in this case he ‘ had a dream that was not all a dream? - It is men like Gerrit Smith who direct, while they indicate, the current of public thought, and touch with a delicate prescience the keynote of the future. And I do not pretend to any extraordinary foresight when I say that the public school system, fat and prosperous as it seems to-day, is a doomed institution; convicted by its own acts, and out of the mouths of its advocates.”
The correspondent also adduces an instance of the injustice of the system taken from his immediate locality, which is fully applicable to this, and every other, section of the State. He says:
“ Take a case in point—a case at our own doors. Here we have a school supported by the Catholics. The Catholics, it will be remembered, are the poorest class in the community. Nevertheless they support their school and support it well. It
202	THE SCHOLASTIC.
flourishes and waxes strong notwithstanding ‘ A’s ’ augury of death to all such institutions. And yet (such is the beauty of State interference in these matters) these men, struggling thus for ‘ conscience sake,’ are compelled to pay an exorbitant tax “towards the building and support of the new public school. Here ‘A’ can see a school ‘ protected by law.’
■ “ ‘ Such protection as hungry vultures give to lambs.’ Here :we see the 1 mailed hand ’ on the throat of the citizen. Here we see—but it is not necessary to add one more line to the pic-lure.’ I commend it as it stands to the friends of State schools, and to the public. Really it would be more becoming for the advocates of the public schools to enjoy their good things in alienee lest, like the rook in the fable, by their foolish cawing they attract others who deem themselves as well entitled to a share in the booty.
. “ Gerrit Smith and other voluntaries object, not so much to the details of the system, as to the system itself. There is no use in .mincing this matter. There is no disguising the fact, that the unparalleled depravity of our times is attributable mainly, if not altogether, to the want of a sound religious system of education. ‘ A tree is known by its fruit,’ and ‘ a good tree cannot bring forth bad fruit.’ The fruits, the woeful fruits of the public system are so plain, so palpable, that every one that runs may lead.
“ The great need of the hour is religion, not the diluted paganism of the public schools, but the real article—religion in the •school, in the store, in the senate, and by the fireside ; but above all in the schools. This religious training the public schools cannot supply. . Therefore are they doomed. Society must protect itself. ‘ Bring up little children in the way they should go, .and when they are grown up they will it not depart from.’ ”

Esamiaation.
( We take the following report of the Examination at; Watertown College from the Republican, published in that flourishing city:
“ The semi-annual examination which took place at the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart during the last week of the session now closed was conducted in such a manner as to give the students an opportunity of showing the progress which they made in their respective courses during the last five months. Judging from the prompt and correct answers given, the examination was satisfactory to all, and the most sanguine expectations of the professors must haveheenfully realized. Through the kindness of Bro. Gabriel we are enabled to give the names of those students who particularly distinguished themselves in their classes. . “ IL Condon, Latin, Rhetoric, Geometry, Algebra, Arithmetic; IL Lautb, Latin, Rhetoric, German, Algebra, Arithmetic; J.Dorsy, Latin,Rhetoric; J.McGowan,Latin,Rhetoric, Book-Keeping, Arithmetic; M. Ames, Algebra, Arithmetic, Grammar, German; J. Moran, Grammar, Latin, Algebra, Arithmetic, German, Book-Keeping; R. Burke, Grammar, Reading, Book-Keeping; Jno. Butler, Arithmetic, Geometry, Book-Keeping, Grammar; M.McGovein, Book-Keeping, Arithmetic, Algebra; R.Casey, Arithmetic, Book-Keeping, Grammar, Reading; A. Mullen, Book-Keeping, Arithmetic, Reading; J. Gibblin, Arithmetic, Book-Keeping, German, Grammar, Reading; A. Salick, Latin, Grammar, German, Reading; A. McDermott, Book-Keeping, Grammar, German; T. Renshaw, Rhetoric, Latin; A. McCabe Sr., Arithmetic, Reading, Book-Keeping; H. Dervin, Reading, Geography, Arithmetic; J. Gallagher, Arithmetic, Latin, Reading, Grammar, Geography, History; L. Mooney, Geography. Arithmetic, Reading, Gram
mar; A. McCabe Jr., Arithmetic, Latin, Grammar, Geography; J. Killian, Geography, History, Grammar, German, Arithmetic; W. Blake, Reading, Arithmetic; C. Franks, Geography, History; P. U. McCabe, Arithmetic, History, Geography, Latin, German, Rhetoric; J. Zimmerman, Rhetoric, Book-Keeping; W. Hawley, Reading, History, Geography, Latin, Grammar, German; J. O’Neil, Arithmetic, Grammar; T. Gamble, Reading, Grammar; J. McGolrick, Grammar, Reading, Algebra, Arithmetic, German; C. Moore, German, Grammar, Geography, History; A. Malloy, Geography, Grammar, Latin, Reading, Arithmetic; H. Brooks, Latin, Grammar; J. Clayton, Grammar, Algebra, Geometry; J. Norton, Latin, History, Geography, Grammar, Arithmetic; C. Stack, Geography, Arithmetic, Reading: J. Nellins, Book-Keeping, Reading} Arithmetic, Grammar; P. Holland, Arithmetic, Latin; E. Roller, Arithmetic, German, Grammar; J. H. O’Connor, Arithmetic, Reading, Grammar; E. Moore, Arithmetic, Grammar; J. Evens, Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography, Reading; J. Stacy, Reading, Grammar, Arithmetic, Geography ; V. Masterson, Reading, Arithmetic, Algebra; J. O’Connell, Grammar, Algebra, Arithmetic, Book-Keeping; N. O’Connell, Arithmetic, Algebra, Book-Keeping, Grammar; J. Dowling, Arithmetic, German; W. Sweetman, Geography, Reading, Grammar, Arithmetic; E. Callaghan, Latin, Grammar, German, Arithmetic, Reading ;.W. Cody, Latin, Grammar, German, Reading; J. Dempsey, History, Arithmetic; F. McHugh, Sr., Grammar, Algebra, Arithmetic; J. Shinnick, Grammar, Arithmetic, German; W. Shea, Grammar, Arithmetic, Algebra; J. Derr, Reading, Arithmetic, German; J. Corrigan, Grammar, Book-Keeping, German.”
■—— 1	t.	.	—
■ A Student Dbowned.—On Wednesday evening font students of the University of Notre Dame had been out oft an enjoyment trip to Mishawaka, and being a little late; having arrived at South Bend, they started across-the country to the College. They had gone only a short -distance when they came to the St. Joe River, which they undertook to cross on the ice. Here one of the number, H. Pendill, broke through the ice, and before assistance could reach him was drowned. Two others broke through but were rescued. The young man’s body was recovered about an hour afterwards. The sad news was communicated to his parents and friends.
We sympathize with the parents of the young man, and full as much with the authorities at the college, for we know by experience how careful they are about those who are intrusted to their care; how, except for- very good reasons, they allow none of the students to leave the grounds, and when they are so permitted, a Brother always goes along to see that all is right. If there is any blame to be attributed to the authorities of the college it is that of misplaced confidence, which is no blame at all.— Toledo Review.
Twenty seven Nashville ladies, determined to practice economy, vowed not to wear anything more expensive than calico dresses to church; and they stuck to it, as none of them have attended church since.
A Titusville paper says: “ A man called at one of our shoe stores and vainly assayed to get on either numbers 11, 12 or 13 shoes. The storekeeper then suggested that he. should put on a thinner pair of stockings and try on the box.”	-	2
1 ‘S
THE SCHOLASTIC.	263
For Autograph Album of Mary.
TO AI ARY.
O how can I drop a thought Ou this “ autograph ” page so fair, With the essence of wisdom so fraught, That the perfume it long shall bear ?
O how can I echo the tone, So entrancing and strong withal— Resounding from Heaven’s bright throne, That you cease ne’er that tone to recall ?
In your beautiful name is enshrined
The most rapturous thought of the spheres; From the four golden letters combined, Rich cadences fall on my ears.
I need but to pen it, and lo 1 All the wisdom and beauty and light Of joy’s mystical fountains o’erllow, And they speak to my heart as I write. •
O Mart 1 prove true to your name
And my love hath achievd all it seeks;
The rich pteans of earth areall tame, To the music its melodye speaks, Alexandria, Va>, Jan. 1st.
A Geographical Dinner Darty.
A royal dinner party was given by an island north of North America, an island west of British Columbia, and their sons; an island east of New Brunswick, a cape of Alaska, and a land north of British America.	;
Everything was in perfect order; a group of islands west1 of Africa made sweet music for this select group of islands in the Pacific Ocean, and the aroma of the islands south Of Asia, mingling with the fragrance of a city in China, stole upon the senses so deliciously that they were a country in Europe, and they soon practically demonstrated that their appetites were a city in Vermont.
The table was elegantly set with a country in Asia and a city in Montana, and bountifully supplied with good things, such as a country in Europe, a cape in New England, an island in the Mediterranean Sea, a harbor in New Jersey, a group of islands in the Pacific, a river in Vermont, and other vegetables, seasoned, of course, with a lake in the United States and a city in South America.
• They were attended by a river in South America whose name was a mountain in Massachusetts, and an aged matron who wore a peak of the Rocky Mountains on her head because she was a mountain in Main.
A lively discussion soon ensued between a cape in Virginia and lake in Australia concerning the relative merits of the capital of the United States and the capital of Nebraska. Others soon joined in the contest—a Barbary state and city in Maine on one side, while a lake in New York and a Southern State sustained the opposite. Meanwhile a city in Italy was carrying on a great flirtation with a river in Briysh America, and so engrossed was she that she did not observe a river in New Brunswick passing her a dish containing an island in the Mediterranean Sea and a river in Africa. In his attempt to gain her attention he spilled a country in Europe on her dress. She exclaimed a river in England, you are a lake in British America! to which he replied, a cape in Central America,
you are a river in Australia. The gentleman said he was not an island in the Irish Sea, or he would not be such a lake in America to any one; but the ladies were pleased with his cape in Washington, they voted him a city in France, and he soon became quite a noted city in Europe.: However, the city in New Hampshire was broken up, and the ladies, to coyer their cape west of North America, declared they were a country in South America, and imme*. diately withdrew to the parlor; and as soon as the gentlemen finished their city in Cuba, and island West of Africa, the party broke up, and bide the royal family a cape south of Greenland.—Hearth and Home.
The Reconstruction of jEgina.—Among other publid works being carried out in Greece is the reconstruction of the port of JEgina at an outlay of 30,000 drachmas. The modern town of JEgina is built on the site of the ancient city, at the northwestern end of the island, which is almost eleven miles distant from Athens. This site is still marked by a Doric column a remnant most probably of the temple of Venus, to the south of which lies the principal port, another port being situated near this theatre. Both these ports are still clearly marked. The first is oval in shape, and protected by the ancient moles, leaving a narrow entrance, on each side of which stood a tower. Remains of these moles and towers, evidently reconstructed at a later time by the Venetians, still exist. The second port, situated in the same direction, is oval, twice as large as the former, and is similarly protected by ancient moles fifteen to twenty feet thick. This latter port seems to have been the broad port, as it was called, whereas the smaller one was the secret port mentioned by Pausanias.—Pall Mall Gazette.
Tubes for Telegraph Wires.—Germany has finally de-cided on practically testing the proposition of abolishing supporting telegraph poles, by burying all the wires in the earth. Tubes are to be laid in shallow trenches and through these wires are to run. In London written tele-grams are sent through pneumatic tubes. The messages are contained in little cylinders of gutta-percha inclosed in felt. They are propelled by means of compressed air behind, and a vacuum in front created by stationary engines. Between two of the stations no less than 1500 missives a day are interchanged. A transit of about half a mile.is accomplished in some fifty seconds.
A correspondent of the Netos, Jackson (Miss.) tells how Gen. Jackson got his title of Old Hickory. He says he got the story from Capt. William Allen, a near neighbor of the General, and who messed with him during the Creek war. During the campaign the soldiers were moving rapidly to surprise the Indians, and were without tents. A cold March rain came on, mingled with sleet, which lasted for several days. Gen. Jackson got a severe cold, but did not complain as he tried to sleep in a muddy bottom among his half-frozen soldiers. Capt. Allen and his brother John cut down a stout hickory tree, peeled off the bark, and made a covering for the General, who was with difficulty persuaded to crawl into it.. The next morning a drunken citizen entered the camp^and seeing the tent kicked it over. As Jackson crawled from the ruins, the toper cried, “ Hello, Old Hickory! come out of your bark, and jine us in a drink.”	-	....
204
THE SCHOLASTIC."
Ths Schjxlastw* *
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
' Mi communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: Oneyear..............................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of ^he publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Tiff. Toledo Review does not know our H. Hayes, to judge from the manner it designates him.
■ Our absence prevented us from having the pleasure of seeing our old foreman and friend, Mr. McMichael, who called at the Office this week.
- Under the heading “ Humorous ”, an exchange puts the following item: “Prof. Henry Coppee purposes to expand his Penn Monthly papers (sixteen in number) on the Moorish conquest of Spain into a thoroughly historical work on that subject.”
Apropos of our Corn Doctor, we clip the following item from an exchange:
“ A. chiropodist announces on his business cards that he has
* removed coms from several of the crowned heads of Europe.’ ”
We do not know whether this refers to our Doctor or not.
Tre Rev. Joseph P. Thompson “speaks right out in meetin’;” this American citizen strayed into very un-American society in London, with sympathizers of Bismark and such, and the rev. gentleman pointed with pride to our Common Schools as the “great foe of Ultramontanism”— that is of the Catholic Church. Rev. Thompson is sup- ’ posed to be well posted. Let Catholics take heed.
- The old and new Editors of the “ Philomathean Standard,’’together with a number of invited guests, partook of & richly prepared feast on last Tuesday evening. At the close of the entertainment Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M., made a few very instructive and happy remarks on the “ Liberty of the Press.” The Philopatrians also, with a number of friends, had a nice, tasty, entertainment a few hours previous. We are very sorry that absense from home prevented us from being present at this interesting meeting.
A Thomas’ concert on the roof of our neighbor’s woodshed is not very soothing in the “ wee sma’ hours ” to those who are wooing weary nature’s sweet restorer—so says an Exchange that ought to know,—but La Porte is happy in having a regular Thomas’ Concert at the orthodox hour of 8, on the 19th inst. Several of our musicians and amateurs went to La Porte to hear it, and all are well pleased with the concert and the trip, especially those who enjoyed the hospitality of Rev. Father O’Sullivan. Perhaps some of our musical critics who were present at the concert will have an account of it ready for next week.
It was with much pleasure we listened last Sunday to “The Chimes” as its silvery notes were rung out by Miss Lilie West. This number of “ The Chimes,” the first No. for 1874, was veiy interesting, as it contained quite a number of local items, which will make the number like good wine, the longer it is kept the better it will be. The account .of the examination of the .higher musical classes was a chef-d'oeuvre of criticism.. The prose articles—essays,.etc.,
—were solid, and the poetry light and airy, except one selected piece aud an In memoriam, which were of a more sombre hue, and, like all the articles, were well written and well rendered.
Died,
Of consumption, on Thursday, the 12th inst., at the residence of his mother, No. 251 First street, John D. Bracken, late of Notre Dame University, South Bend, Ind., aged 16 years and 1 month. Funeral from residence at 11 A. M.to St. Columbkill’s church, thence to N. W. depot and Calvary Cemetery.
John Bracken was an excellent student while here, and fully appreciated the devotedness of his good mother who exerted herself so much for him. He is regretted here both by students and teachers, who sympathize with the bereaved mother.
St. Thomas cf Aquin.
The Angelic Doctor, the great Dominican Saint, Thomas Aquinas, died March 7th, 1274. The coming 7th of March will be the sixth centennary of the great Saint and Doctor. The Literary as well as the Religious Sodalities should see that the day be properly celebrated.
Publications.
The Catholic World—for March.
As we go to press, the March number of this ever-welcome Magazine comes to hand. The following is the table of contents: 1. John Stuart Mill; 2. The Farm of Mui-ceron—continued; 3. The Little Chapel—poetry; 4. Philosophical Terminology, No. Ill; 5. Late Home—poetry-; 6. “Grapes and Thorns,” by the author of the “House of York,”—Chapter IX; 7. The Religious Policy of the Second Empire; 8. Grace Seymour’s Mission—concluded ; 9. The Principles of Real Being, No. HI; 10. The Jansenist Schism in Holland; 11. A Looker Back; 12. A Block of Gold; 13. Vigil—poetry; Notices of New Publications.
Cecilia: Vereinsorgan des American “Csecilian Vereins.” Monatssehrift fiir Catholische K’rchen-Musik, nebst einer Musik Beilage. Day ton, Ohio: J. Fischer & Bro., Publishers John Singenberger, Editor. $1 per annum.
The first number of this interesting monthly—the organ of the American Caecilia Society—has been received, and we heartily recommend all who take an interest in church music to subscribe to it. Those who do not read German will get the value of the subscription price in the excellent music accompanying it. The pieces in the present number are from Palestrina, Stehle, Ett and Singenberger—and if well sung, with the fervor and devotional feeling with which all church music should be sung, they will do much towards removing the prejudices of a vitiated taste.
The publishers, Messrs. Fischer & Bro., promise to issue an English edition if there should be a sufficient demand for it to justify the undertaking. J
As regards the Cscilia Society, we hail its organization with pleasure, especially when we see the name of Right Rev. Bishop Henni heading its list of members as their Protector, and also our good friend Very Rev. F. Kundig, V. G. We hope the Rev. clergy will give the Caecilia Society all the encouragement in their power. It has been affiliated to the “ AJlgemeinen Deutschen Cacilien Verein,”
THE SC. HO r A ST IC. '
20$
which was approved by a Papal Brief, December 19, 1870. Under the presidency of its noble founder, Rev. Father Witt, the Caecilia Society has already accomplished much good in Germany. Of the President of the American branch, who is also editor of the Oacilia, and Professor of Music at the Teachers’ Seminary, St. Francis Station, Wisconsin, we believe he is in every way qualified for the double task which he-has undertaken, and we wish him, most cordially, all possible success.
All who are interested in Catholic church music—but especially organists, choir-leaders and singers—cannot but know and feel that the prevailing style of music is not fit for the church. Good Catholics go to church to pray, not to be entertained. If music helps them to pray better, it is the proper music for the church; but light and giddy music does not in the least accord with the solemn ceremonies of the Church, and singers who have no piety themselves cannot render music so that it will inspire piety in others. Soft, sentimental duetts, solos, opera melodies, etc., tend to draw the attention of the hearers from God to the performers, and such music, it need scarcely be said, is worse than none. Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Weber, etc., did not compose their Masses according to the Liturgy of the Church; they make scarcely any difference between the church and the concert-hall, and their. Masses, therefore, should be excluded form the sacred precincts. Of harmonized music, that known as the Palestrina style is the only one recommended by the Church. Where Pal; estrina and his contemporaries are found too difficult, the works of Witt, Mettenleiter, Siehle, Oberhofer, Kothe, Kaim, Ett, Greith, Singenberger, Kretschmer, Brosig, and a number of other composers, can be used to advantage.
The Chicago Specimen. A Quarterly for Printers and Pub-lisbers. Chicago Type Foundry: January, 1874.
This number has among other things some instructive hints for Country Editor’s, Talk for Printers, and miscellaneous notes on journalism and other matters pertaining to the printing interest. It also shows some fine specimens of plain and ornamental types, among the latter of which are prominent a Payson Script, and a series of Engravers’ and English Model Blacks. A price scale for estimating cost of electrotyping and stereotyping jobs and bookwork is also given in this number, which will be found useful by all who have such work to do. The Electrotying and Stereotyping Department of the Chicago Type Foundry is under the management of one who brings to his assistance not only a thorough understanding of both these departments in their various minutise, but also a good general knowledge of the printing business, which will go far towards guaranteeing satisfaction in his line of business.
Subscriptions to the JTew Tabernacle.
•	[continued f	' '
Miss. Julia Pottmeyer, Logansport Indiana.... §10 00
Mrs. George Virrill, Terrytown New York...... 10 00
Peter Moore, Philadelphia Pennsylvania......... 10	00
C. Mansfield, Philadelphia Pennsylvania........ 10	00
Miss. Kate Frehey, New Yoik.................... 10	00
--------, Cincinnati Ohio.......................10	00
St. Charles, Academy’ Crawfordsville, Indiana, per - Sister M. Reges, Directress.................. 10	00
Children of Mary,” Carondelet, Missouri......... 5	00
J. M. Tracey, Geneva, Minnesota..............-.. 10 00
John Boddaker, Galveston, Texas............. 10 00
Joseph Boddaker, Galveston, Texas.............. 10 0O
Capt. Thomas Dignan, Galveston, Texas.........., 10 00 Mrs. Barrett, Detroit, Michigan............10 0O
Mrs. Louisa Shriek, Brooklynn, New York........ 10 00 Rev. Pierce Maher, Norristown, Pa., (deceased).. $10 00 Mary V. Simmons, Marengo, Iowa................... 500
Daniel O’Shea, Brooklyn, N. Y............... 10 0O
Maria O’Shea, Brooklyn, N. Y...................- 5 00
Elizabeth O’Shea, Brooklyn, N. Y. ............. 5 00
St. Vincent’s Asylum, Toledo, Ohio............. 10 00
Denis Coghlin and family, Toledo, Ohio........	10 00
William Denniston, Toledo, Ohio................ 10 0O
Thomas Huggon, Youngstown, Ohio................ 10 00
A Friend, Chicago, Illinois.................... 10 00
Maj. R. C. Walker, Helena, Montana.Territory. .. 10 00 Mrs. R. C. Walker, Helena, Montaan Territoiy.... 16 00 [to be continued.]
Boll of Honor. -
FRIDAY, FEB. 6th, 1S74.	’
SENIORS.
J. Abbott, J. Brown, W. Bali, A. Baca, V. Baca, J. Berry, M. Bastarache, J. Brogan, C. Berdel, G. Burbridge, G. Cunnea, O. Corcoran, H. Cassidy, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, W. Clarke, P. Cooney, J. Christy, T. Cashin, H. Dehner, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, B. Euans, H. Esch, T. Flanagan, M. Foley, J. Falvey, J. Fielding, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, J. Girard, T. Grier, T. Gallaher, J. Gillen/ E: Graves, E. Gribling, W. Gross, C. Hess, V. Hansen, A. Horne, J. Hogan, H. Hayes, D. Hynds, J. Handley, B. Hersey, M. Jeffreys, J. Kennedy, M. Keeler, J. Lonergan, J. McManus, A. •Martineau, S. Marks, F. Morass, T. McDonough, B. McGinnis, M. Cullough, J. McMahon, E. McSweeney, T. Murphy, A. Mooney, E. Monahan, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin, P. McDonald, J. Mathews, J. Ney, J. O'Connor, J. E. O’Brien, P. O’Meara, P. O’Mahony, J. Ott, C. Proctor, J. Porter, H. Pendili, J.F. Rudge; G. Roulhac, G.Rudge, J. Rudge, C. Ruger, L. Sanders, C. Spears; R. Staley, P. Sk ihill, F. Sweeger, O. Tong, J. Van Dusen, Ji Wolfe, H. Walker, C. Walter.	-
_	JUNIORS.
B. Baca, J. Beegan, C. Burger, W. P. Breen, J. Buchanan, J/ Cassella, J. Crummey, J. Cullen, E. De Groot, J. Delvecchio, W, Darst, J. Dally, J. Ewing, C. Freeze, E. Grambling, J.Golsen, O. Gove, D. Gorman, C. Hake, M. J. Kinsella, C. A. Kreiter, A, Kramer, P. Kelly, J. Lynch, C. A. Lewis, B. Le Fevre, J. Lambin, G. Lehman, J. McGrath, G. McNulty, T. McNamara, P. Moran, N. J. Mooney, C. Meyer, W. Meyer, T. Monahan, J. E. Marks, F. Miller, C. Nichols, J. Nc’son, D. O’Connell, C. O’Connor, J. O’Connor, H. Quan, W. Robinson, F. Smyth, J.Sugg, As Schmidt, F. Stamm, J. Soule, W. Schulthies, C. Stucker, J. Smith, Louis Smith, H. Schilt, T. Solon, H. Shephard, F. Thal-, man, R. Walker, F. Wittlesberger, E. Wood, C. Wells, F. Strong, J. Cohen. E. Irwin Chatterton, J. Kinly.	'
minims.	.
M. McAuliffe, F. Carlin H. Middleton, C. Buchanan, L. Gold-, smith, J. Blaine, T. Hooley, H. Canoll, A. Foster.	:
FRIDAY, FEB. 13th, 1874.	’ '
SENIORS.	‘
J. Brown, A. Baca, V. Baca, J. Berry, M. Bastarache, J. Brogan; C. Berdel, G. Burbridge, O. Corcoran, J. Callery, M. Caldwell, H. Cassidy, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, P. Cooney, T. Cashin, F» Devoto, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, B. Euans, H. Esch, T. Flanagan, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, J. Girard, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J; Gillen, E. Graves, E. Gribling, W. Gross, V. Hansen, A. Horne, H. Hayes, D. Hynds, J. Handley, B. Hersey, J. Kennedy, M; Keeler, J. E. Kelly, P. Lilly, J. Luby, J. McManus, A. Martineau?,
200:	THE SOH
OL ASTI C. -
8. Marks, F. Morass, J..McDermott, T. McDonough, B. McGin* nis, D. McGinnis, M. McCullough, J. McMahon, E> McSweeney, A. Mooney, E. Monahan, P. McDonald, J. Mathews, B. Mathers, J. Ney, J. E. O’Brien, P. O’Mahony, T. O’Mahony, E. O’Conn. 11, J. Ott, C. Otto, C. Proctor, J. Porter, J. F. Rudge, G. Roulhac, G. Rudge, J. Rudge, C. Ruger, L. Sanders, F. Scralford, R Staley, P. Skahill, S. Studebaker, F.Sweeger, O. Tong, J. Wolfe, H. Walker, C. Walter, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin.
•	• JUNIORS.
J. Beegan, J. Bnchanan, J. Cassella, A. Crunkilton, F. Claffey, J. Delvecchio, J. Doyle,. W. Darst, J. Ewing, F. Ewing, F. Frazee, E. Grambling, O. Gove, D. Gorman, W. Lloyd Hatch, Stephen Kennedy, James Kinly, Lanis Loser, Charlie A. Lewis, Belfield LeFevre, George Lehman, John McGrath, George Me* Nulty, Joseph McHugh, Patrick Moran, Nathan J. Mooney, ,C. Meyer, W. S. Meyer, Joseph E. Marks, Fred Miller, Denis O’Connell, Frank Smyth, Robert Sobey, John F. Soule, Louis Smith, James Smith, R. West, Robert Walker, Edgar Wood, John Cohen, Jose Leander Perea, John Dalley.
Class Honors.
Collegiate Department.
Senior Class:—C. J. Dodge, W. W. Dodge, W. J. Clarke, R. W. Staley, C. A. Berdel, T. A. Dailey, H.- W. Walker, L. B. Hayes, H. V. Hayes, D. E. Maloney, T. P. White.
-Junior Class:—T-. Grier, T. Murphy, E. McLaughlin.
Sophomore Class:—M. Bastarache, C. Walter, C. Proctor, F. Devolo, T. Gallagher, E. Monahan, J. Caren.
Freshman Class :—A. J. Mooney, H. Dehner, B. Euans, G. Crummey, H. C. Cassidy, P. O’Mahony, J. J. Gillen, P. Cooney, J. E. Kelly, W. Breen, J. A. Brown.
1	 -	• 
■	All Around.	;
'l
■ An extra recreation day is in the wind. •
"What is the matter with the ground-hog?	’ '
Valentines were received in abundance. Some very appropriate.
■ Don't fail to attend the Thespians’ Exhibition on Tuesday evening.
The first game of hand-ball for ibis season was played on Wednesdayafternoon.
The “Flying Dutchman” is a very attractive feature of the Seniors’ yard at present. [The “ Flying Dutchman ” should at once be made to take French leave, and walk Spanish from the Seniors’ Yard, and to locate not less than twenty miles from the College premises—Ed.]
. The swings have been brought into active operation since |he fine weather came on. .
■ The Juniors are favored with useful instructions eveiy ■ morning by Father Lemonnier, and the Seniors are not often neglected.
The Class of Phonography, taught by Bro. Alban, is still increasing its number. Students are just beginning to appreciate the true value of this science. ■
Rev. J. H. McManus, of the Diocese of Natchez, was at the College this week. Father McManus is one of our old students—one in whom his Alma Mater takes pride.
Several persons from Notre Dame attended the performance by the Thomas Orchestra at Laporte last Thursday.	•
‘ The Thespian Exhibition of the 24th will be very fine. Amateur dramatists from our neighboring towns are pordially invited to attend*- _ .	.	.	-
Lent has commenced.—The “ fasting ” table is no larger than usual. We are pleased, to .see that many of our students have selected this time to “swear off” from the use of tobacco.	.	-
The first game of base-ball for 1874 was played last Wednesday. It was a match between two “picked ” nines. The score at the end of the game stood 20 to 34 in favor of the winning side—this is the side we bet on, don’t we ?'
We were asked the other day, “ What is the pole tax on the gin pole in South Bend for 1873?” Well, we cannot answer the question this week, but we will inquire into the matter and let our readers know in next issue.
From present appearances the Thespians are going to have an immense audience at their coming Exhibition. We can assure their numerous friends that they will find the Thespians of ’73 and ’74 not below the standard of that Society.
. Prof. Lyons gave an elegant oyster supper to the different Societies under his charge on Tuesday last. These societies are the Thespians, St. Cecilians and Philopatrians. Prof. Lyons always has been noted for his generosity, and we can bear testimony that none of it was wanting on that occasion. -	-
The Boat-Club has reorganized and is in splendid condition. It boasts two excellent crews. They expect the new boats soon. With the new race:boats they will be able to make the annual race in June of more interest than ever. The old boats, we believe, are to be reserved for pleasure excursions on the Lake.	.
Our Band, fascinated by the fine weather on Sunday af-: ternoon, came out and discoursed some excellent music in i front of the College. We are glad to see that they do not ‘ feel discouraged, although they have lost some good members lately. They have some handsome pieces in preparation, which they will play on Tuesday evening, for the first time before the public. Don’t give up, boys; you have plenty of brass, so go ahead.
Vertai Sat. *
Say, Harwich, in the name of “ three halves,” “ biographies,” “ poetry,” “ ear-fortifications,” “ blood,” “ thunder,” “lightning,” “shot,” “shell,” “powder,” “gages,” “gladiators,” “ arenas,” “ Damiscan rings,” “ wooden truncheons,” “pincers,” “cellar-doors,” “dancing,” “quicksteps,” and other things pertaining to the war-village— Harwich etymologized—" Cheese it,” or retreat into some obscure corner, sit down and quietly unravel yourself, for you are in a very intricate tangle.	Joe.
Society Reports.
' ST. ALOYSIUS PHILODEMIC SOCIETY.
Editor Scholastic :—The first meeting of the St. Aloysius .Philodemic Society for this scholastic session was held on Tuesday evening, in the class-room of Prof. Edwards, he having kindly fitted up the room for the use of the Society.
The meeting, being an .important one, had a full attendance. After the reading of the minutes of the previous meeting, the Society proceeded at once to the business .of the evening, to wit: the election of officers for the present scholastic term. .The officers to be elected were a Vice-
◄
____THE SOH OIA S TIC .
20t
President, Corresponding Secretary, Recording Secretary, Treasurer, two Censors, and' two Librarians. The balloting was prolonged in consequence of the number of candidates. It resulted in the choice of the-following gentlemen :	'
' Vice-President—E. McS weeny.	-
Recording Secretary—P. O’Meara. .
Treasurer—H. L. Dehner.
First Censor—M. Foley.
Second Censor—B. McDonough.
First Librarian—G. Graves.
Second Librarian—T. H. Grier.	-
Corresponding Secretary—B. J. McGinnis.^
On motion the elections were made unanimous. The President, Rev. Mr. Zahm, C. S. C., made a few happy remarks, in which he congratulated the Society on the marked improvement in the art of debate naticeable in the members. He commended the interest the members took individually in the prosperity of the Society, and concluded by expressing a desire that the harmony which at present prevails among the members should continue, and that the Society should be as uniformly successful during the present Session as it was during the last.
B. J. McGinnis, Cor. Sec'y.
ST. CECILIA PHILOMATHEAN ASSOCIATION.
The 22nd regular meeting was held Feb. 1st, 1874. After reading the various reports, and transacting other miscellaneous business, the members proceeded to the election of officers, which resulted as follows:
' Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C. -
President—Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.	3
. Dramatic Render—Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M.	-!
. Judge of the Moot Court—Prof. L G. Tong. LL.B.	"
General Critic, and Lecturer on Political Economy—Prof. T. E. Howard, A.M, LL.B.
Director of Calisthcnic Dep't.—Prof. Wm. Ivers, A. M.
■ Promoter—Prof. J. F. Edwards.
Vice-President—W. P. A. Breen.
Vice-President Dramatic Branch—B. Baca.
Vice-Prsideni Orpheonic Branch—D O’Connell.
Vice-President Historic Branch—J. Ewing.
Recording Secretary—B. Le Fevre.
Corresponding Secretary—Jos. M. F. Beegan.
Treasurer—Wm. Meyer.
.Librarian—John Soule.
Assistant librarian—Chas. Campeau.
• Monitor—G. Furer.	.
Assistant Monitor—C. Freese.
Cler'c of Moot Court—Nathan J. Mooney.
Sheriff of Moot Court—John Cullen.
’ First Censor—Joseph E. Marks.
2nd Censor—E. R itigan.
3rd Censor—L. Loser. .	’
Sergeant at-arms—W. H. Greene.
Prompter—Joseph F. McHugh.
Marshal—Augustus Schmidt.	.
Charges-Affaires—J. Campbell C. Nichols, M. Burge.
Joseph M. F. Beegan, Cor. Sec'y.
The 10th regular meeting was held Feb. 8, at which an election of officers for the Second Session took place, and resulted as follows:
Director—R -v. A. Lemonnier, C.S.,0.
President—Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.
Vice- President—F. Weisen berger.
Corresponding Secretary—J. R. Downey.
Treasurer—Jno. McIntyre.	.	.
1st Librarian—Jno. Keilty.
2nd Librarian—A. Mitchell.
1«4 Censor—T. McNamara. ■ '■	,__„
2nd Censor-.—H. Faxon.	««—
Prompter—F. X. Claffey.	'
Sergeant-at Arms—W. Darst.
Marshal—H. Quan.	' ‘	•
-	M. Kinsella, Cor. Sec'y. .
ST. STANISLAUS PHILOPATRIAN ASSOCIATION.
The 8th and 9th regular meetings were held Jan. 26th and Feb. 2d respectively. At these meetings the following delivered declamations: F. J. Weisenberger. J. McIntyre, F. McNamara, H. Faxon, W. Darst, F. Claffey, A. Mitchell, Eddie De Groot, and R. Downey. Masters F; Gallagher and W. English presented themselves, and they , were unanimously elected. Bro. Leander, C. S. C. was then unanimously elected an honorary member, after, which the meeting adjourned.
•	M. Kinsella, Cot. Sec'y.
SAINT MART’S ACADEMY.
ARRIVALS.
Miss Frances Howard, Goshen, Ind. ’ “	S. West,	Chicago, Ill.
“	H. Hand,	Ellwood, Ind.
“	J. Riopelle,	Detroit, Mich.
TABLET OP HONOR.
. -. - - -	SENIORS.	.
Misses Niel, A. M. Clarke, Gross, Devoto, Brown, Spier, West, Black, Langdon, Dragoo, J. Walker, Reynolds, V. Ball, Letourneau, Boyce, Curtin, M. Walker, Foote, Phil- ' lips, Deneby, Doherty, N. Bal), Bennett, Keena, Hamilton, ■ Germain, Graham, Mahony, E. Mann, Poquette, Klotz,;
Shields, K. Engle, J. Adams.	.	•
-	- INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.	-
1st Class—E Black, J. Walker. .	'
2nd Division— R. Spier. - .	‘
2nd Class—N. McEwen, M. Emmons, N. Foote, J. Kreigh, T. Heckman, A. Smith, L. West. -	’
2nd Division—D. Simonds, M. Quan, A. Roberts. - ., 3rd Class—A. Clarke, E. O’Connor, A. Minton, M. B irry, J. Kearney, M. Resch, K. Hutchinson, E. Gosse, R. Devoto, C. Nason, M. Letourneau.	-
2nd Division—M. Kengel, E. Ives, M. Kearney, E. Dennehy.
4th Class—L. Tinsley, J. Stimpson, J. Locke, A. Kee-line, A. Boser, A. Nichols, A.“St. Clair.	-
2nd Division—B. Golsen, B. Wilson, L. Henrotin, M. Hoover, C. Klotz, E. Boyce, A. T. Clark,.C. Miller, R. Ros-cesco, L. Pfeiffer.	- • •
5th Class—M. E. Roberts, M. Faxon, M. Johnson, M. Booth, M. Pritchard, M. Kaeseberg, K. Engel, M. Cummings, I. Hatch, M. Hayes, L. McKinnon.
2nd Division—C. Sottrup, F. Loyd, L.Niel, E. Richardson, G. Phillips, L. Lilly, M. A. Roberts, E. Lange, L. Johnson.	,
6th Class—K. Morehead, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, A. Goewey, M. Carlin, A. Curtin, L. Germain, S. Bohen, S. Sweeney, M. Reily, M. Schulthies.	•
2nd Division—H. Miller, V: Ball, N. Bill, A. Sweeney^ E. Schnoback R. Canoil, S. Murrin J C. Adams, N. O’Meara, K. Inniter.
7tii Class—E. Dougherty. C. Orr, R. Gallery, M. Quill, M. Reynolds, S. Keena, R. McKeever, M. Martin, M. Sumi? mers, M. O’Connor, K. Casey, E. Lappin.
208
THE SCHOLASTIC;
8th Class—F. Dee, T. Cronin, M. De Long, E. Simpson, 9th Class—J. Brown. A.. Ewing.
10th Class—31. Poquette, K. Graham.
Harp—J. Walker. M. Wicker, M. Walker, E. O'Connor.
Guitar—L. Harrison.	.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—LiiieWest.
2nd Division.—N. Foote, E. O’Connor, L. Black, E.
Haggerty, M. Quan.
2nd Class—T. Heckman, J. Kearney.
. 2nd Division—31. Kearney, J. Locke, D. Simonds, M.
Dougherty, A. Morrison.
3rd Class—E. Tavlor. C. Strother, A. Roberts, A. Kee-line, J. Stimson, L. Pfeiffer.
2nd Division—31. Klotz, 31. Jackson, J. Brown, I. Hatch,
pje.ostlvmia cext;ral DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three dally Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d rrain “	“	5.15 p. m “ '	“	5 41 a. m*
3rd train “	9.00 p. m “	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and Sonth, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N McCULLOUGH. Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, .In., Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYE Gen'l Pass and Ticket Ag't Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day. -	'	'
•	TABLET OF HONOR.
JUNIORS.
3Iis>es E. Richardson. A. Smith, 31. Faxon, A. Walsh, 31. Resch, 31. Carlin, 31. O'Connor, T. Fisk, B. Wilson, 31. Reynolds, K. and M. Hutchinson, K. Morehead, M. Walsh, M. Ewing, E. Lang, M. Pritchard. L. Harrison. E. Orton, If. Brown, J. and M. Thompson, M. Summers, M. Jackson, M.DeLong, M. A. Schultheis, J. Brown, M. Booth, A. Cullen, D. Allen, L. Germain, B. Golsen, E. and J. McD >ugall. G. Hooley, A. Ewing, E. Sehnoback, L. Walsh, T. Cronin, A. Goewev, E. Lippin, S. Lynch. J. Andrews, C. Orr, M. Ware, E. Simps tn. R. Gallary. 31. Hayes, N. and I. 3Iann, If. and C. Hughes, J. and F. Dee.	'
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE	'
1st Sr. Class.—E. Richardson, A. Smith.
3rd Sr. Class.—31. Faxon,-A. Walsh.
1st Prep. Class—M Resch. 31 Carlin, I. Fi*k,31. O'Connor, B. Wilson. 31. Reynolds. K. Hutchinson, K. Morehead.
2nd Prep. Class.—M. E wing, E. Lang, L. Harrison, 31. Drown.
Jr. Prep. Class.—J. and 31. Thompson, H. Peak, 3f. Simmers, M. Jackson, N. O’Meara, M. Hutchinson, 3L De Lone, 31..A. Schultheis, J. Brown, M. Kaeseburg, A. Koch, 3L Booth, A. Cullen, D. Allen, L. Germain, B. Golsen, J. McDougall.	.
1st Jr. Class.—G. Hooley, A. Ewing, E. Sehnoback, L. Walsh, T. Cronin, A. Goewey, E. Lappin, J. Andrews, O. Orr. 31. Ware, R. Gallery.	-
. 2nd Jr. Class.—31. Hayes, N. and I. 3Iann.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
" UNIVERSITY OB NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
• Founded in 18-12, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
• Situated near the 'Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad,
On and after Sunday, December 14,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
1.47 a. sr. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 9 51; Cleveland, 2.15 p. M.; Buffalo, 9.10 p. m.
1O.1O A. m (No. 2), Mail, over Main and A r Lines; Arrives at Toledo, 5.10 p m ; Cleveland, 9 59 p. m.
11.58 p m. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 P.iM.; Buffalo 4 20 a at.
9.09 p. ar. (No 6>, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1.25 p. ar. '
3.45 P- at. (No 70), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.20 a. at. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.25; Chicago 6 55 a. at.	-	•
5 20 a. ar (No 5). Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, 8 30 a. ar.	*
6.34 p. ar. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7 30; Chicago, 10 1% at.
5.45 p. ar. (No. 1). Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte, 6.40; Chicago H 00.
9.05 a. ar. (No. 71), Local Freight.	.
Note. C inductors are positively forblldm to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.	"	.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
. J. II Parsons, Sup’t Western'Division, Chicago.' • ‘ ' W. W. GIDDINGS. Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t. -
Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos 7, 9, ana71; Ea-=t, Nos.2and70 WarsawExpress(connectingwith No. 4) leaves Elkhart at. 12.30 p. m., running through to Wabash. Through tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, In-urance tickets, K. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the.Ticket Agent.
Chicago Alton ano St. Louis Line.
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near 3Iad-ison Street Bridge, as follows:
is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee,	$ 5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition <Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	12 50
Use of Piano,	-	-	-	-	"	-	-	-	-	“	- 10 00
Use of Violin,................................................2	00
Drawing. -	-	-	' -	•	"	•	-	•	"	-15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	- _ -	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific,$8; Classical, - 1G 00 Students’ who’ spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
‘ Class Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, 111., and Louisiana, Mo.	•
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Lonis and Springfield Night Express, via Maili Line/
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-viil, III., and Louisiana. Mo. .
LEAVE.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m. ,♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
+9:45 p.m.
ARRIVE.
♦8:00 p.m
♦4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m,
♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
17:15 aim.
§7:15 a.m.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.	■
leFor furtherparticulars, address
Rev. A. LE MONKISH, C.S.C.
'	President.
NILES i SOUTH BEND R.R.
' GOING SOUTH.	GOING NORTH.
Leave Niles, - - - 9.21am. Leave South Bend, - 6.30 a.m.
“	5.?o p.m.	“	“	1100 a m.
“	7.35 pan.	“	“	6.15 p.m.
•	SUNDAY TRAINS.
Leave Niles, - - - 10.09 a.m. I Leave South Bend, - 8.00 a.m.
“	“	7.35 p.m. ]	it	5 00 p.m.
•	S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only ± Ex cept Saturday. I Dail y. § Except. Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN, -
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
. CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
LOUISVILLE N. ALBANY & CBICAGO R.R.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:
GOING NOE TN.
Pass.... Freight. Freight Pass....
7 29 p
m.
Pass
GOING S 0 UTH
.2.48 a. m. Freight .
.8 57 r.
9.24 a. m.
Freight Pass...,
...............8	23	p.m.
..............1047	a;m.
..............4.45	a.m.
..............11.23	A.M.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.