Votre Dame Scholastic.
JDisce quasi semper vieturus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
t
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY. 18, 1878.	Number 38.
[For The Notre Dame Scholastic.]
The Mouth of May.
A SONNET.
Nature from Winter’s chilly thraldom freed, In Spring’s coy arms lies heauteously serene, While ’pon the meadow sprouts the glossy green;
And winding gently through the grassy mead, Where late it foamed and chafed like sporting steed,
Smiles lovingly along the limpid stream,
And tipped with crimson by the day-god’s beam,
The tree-tops woo the light aerial breed:
This month, the fairest one of all the year, To Mary, the Immaculate, has been given—
The Virgin-Mother who is ever near
When sin assails us or when dangers threaten, That she our hearts, so desolate and drear,
May deign to fill with the sweet peace of heaven.
John G. A. Sullivan.
Glimpses of the Grand and Beautiful in Nature.
“ Know ye how opens out the seed, and how the plant upgrows ? How, soft and green in sweet springtide, ’tis ripe ere summer’s close ?
How, in the downy covert of the swift-winged swallow’s nest, Instinct to mother-love expands in the gentle creature’s breast; And how, beneath the shelter of the fragile, ovate shell, A winged germ takes life one day to quit its narrow cell? ”
—Fred. Deschamps.
In the contemplation of nature our imagination is equally confounded by the infinitely great and the infinitely small.
It is night. We are walking in a primeval forest. Nothing disturbs the silence of the night. Now and then the gentle breath of zephyrs stirs the leafy canopy above our head. Nature is asleep. Even the feathery tribe have hushed their thousand voices. Suddenly we step out on an open place. The effect to the contemplative naturalist is thrilling. He stands stupefied; and, lifting up .his eyes, he scrutinizes the mechanism of the heavens. There he stands contemplating immensity revealed in the azure dome of heaven, where glows a perfect dust of stars.
“Whoever,” says an illustrious orator, “contemplates this spectacle with the eye of his imagination, feels the littleness of man when compared to the greatness of the universe ”; and commenting upon this passage, Dr. Pouchet continues: “Although it is true that in presence of the immensity of space and the eternal duration of time, a feeling of humility subjugates us; although each step that man takes in his path and every wrinkle that furrows his brow reveal his utter feebleness, yet his genius, that divine breath, supports him on his journey by showing him both his power and lofty origin.” Yes, it is this power that rules over the fishes of the sea and the animals of the land; it is by this power that man is enabled to
contemplate the wonders of creation and to penetrate its m/steries; it is this power that has caused nations alternately to weep and rejoice; and, finally, it is through this power that misery came into the world.
The more we penetrate the mysteries of creation the more we are convinced that none of the fictions of the ancients in regard to the origin of the world are admissible. The Chinese accounts of creation represent the first organizer of the Chaos under the form of a feeble old man, enervated and tottering, called Pan-Kou-Che, surrounded by confused masses of rocks, and holding a chisel in one hand and a hammer in the other. One may well shudder at the relative feebleness of the workman to the immensity of the undertaking—a real pigmy confronting a herculean task. In the North the deity that produced the world was not regarded as a palsied and infirm old man; they required a divinity endowed with their own savage energy. In their eyes it was the god of tempests, the redoubtable and gigantic Thor, who, armed with a blacksmith’s ham mer, and suspended over the abyss, with mighty blows broke the crust of the earth, and fashioned the rocks and mountains with the splinters. To us, who are accustomed to bow before an all-powerful Creator, such images appear very puerile. Instead of a giant hammering out the globe, we everywhere trace out the invisible Hand of God. Here He animates the insect with the breath of life, with a delicacy which surpasses all conception; there He reins the worlds flying through space, conserves, convulses or annihilates them as He pleases. In fact it is by the withdrawal of His all-supporting Hand, as it were, that our globe is occasionally shaken to its very foundation, opening crev-•ices and abysses where the philosopher may behold written on each grain of sand a grand page of Natural Theology.
“The dust we tread was once alive,”
says Byron, and in every crumbling peak is displayed to our view the remains of generations buried by the revolutions of the globe. Their numbers, their size, their unknown forms astonish us; but, no doubt, these inanimate remains, of which the earth has faithfully kept the impress, are so many medallions struck by the Creator, and spared by the hand of Time to reveal to the geologist the world’s eventful history. What forces were there not shut away in the bowels of the earth, which when unleashed shook the world to raise up the Alps and Himalayas; at another time cleaving the globe from pole to pole, and raising up from the bosom of the sea the Andes and Rocky Mountains of America, when the startled waves, as many hold, tumultuously pouring over the ancient world, produced one of the more recent catastrophes, the great deluge. Thus the supreme power of God decreed! And who dare resist? Ah, well might the Royal Prophet exclaim: “ The heavens show forth the glory of God, and the firmament declareth the work of His hands.” (Ps. xviii, 1.)
When, after having contemplated the imposing phenomena which are taking place in the heavens and on the
594	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
earth, we look down upon its tiniest inhabitants, we see revealed, in unexpected magnificence, all the wisdom of Providence; and ere long the spectacle of immensity in what is infinitely little astonishes us no less than the immeasurable power displayed in the grand scenes of creation.
Life is everywhere. In the air above, the earth beneath, and the water under the earth, we are surrounded with life. Nature seems to imitate ancient Pantheism, which distributed portions of the divinity to every molecule of created matter, thus mistaking the effect for the cause. Life is only an effect of Divinity, not a part of it. The universal diffusion of life furnishes us even a more brilliant idea than the prodigious number of organisms scattered into every nook and corner of creation. On the mountain top, in the abysses of the Atlantic, in the deepest crevice of the earth’s crust, we find traces of animal life. Nature although prodigal of space is nevertheless economical in filling it. The demonstration of this fact is one of the most recent and magnificent conquests of science. It is the microscope that makes us acquainted with the infinitely little, while the telescope pierces the heavens and lays bare the mysteries of the infinitely great. These instruments at once display to men objects so new, striking, and unexpected, that it is everywhere admitted that they have opened a new world, by conferring on us two-additional senses, that of magnifying the infinitely little in order to penetrate deeply into the most hidden secrets of the anatomy and manner of beings the mere existence of which the eye could not lead us to suspect, and we are apt to ask if the pride of genius has not usurped the place due to the simple realities of nature ? Hence it was that for a long time the statements of microscopists were regarded by some obstructive minds as mere fables. On the other hand, it is the telescope that brings the magnitudes of the infinitely great into the narrow compass of human reason and intelligence.
We are astonished, when we read the works of naturalists, to meet with so many curious, nay incredible things, and we are tempted to reject all; but when we see their instruments, constructed with such precision, we at once conclude that however marvellous their investigations may appear, still they did not, nor could they, deceive themselves and us.
I will not now enter further upon the consideration of what I proposed to treat of, but in succeeding articles we will speak first of the wonders and curiosities of the animal kingdom, next those of the vegetable, after which we will enter the domains of Geology and Astronomy and make them yield not only what is curious and beautiful but what is astonishing, immeasurably great and beautiful. 0, God! how beautiful art Thou in Thy works! They are Thine, for Thou hast made them all.
The contemplation of nature was always a source of joy and happiness to man; even as far back as the times of the ancient Egyptians and Greeks we find her votaries armed with the telescope and microscope (they are now known to have existed in their times),studying'.nature and her children. Who, I ask, would not be filled with admiration when contemplating the boundless vault of the heavens, with its mighty orb, its fulness of light, its golden clouds and gorgeous sunsets, or its deep mighty azure, studded with myriads of luminous stars! Bring down your soaring imagination upon the sublunary world and mark the majestic mountains and lovely valleys, the foaming cascades and roaring torrents,—
“Torrents, methinks, that heard a mighty voice, And stopped in their maddest plunge!
Motionless torrents! silent cataracts!
Who made you glorious as the gates of heaven Beneath the keen full moon ? Who hade the sun Clothe you with rainbows ? Who, with living flowers Of loftiest blue, spread garlands at your feet ?
‘ Gon! ’ let the torrents like a shout of nations Answer! and let the ice-plains answer, ‘ God ’!
‘ God ’ sing, ye meadow-streams, with gladsome voice ! Ye pine-groves, with your soft and soul-like sounds!
And they too have a voice, yon piles of snow,
- And in their perilous fall shall thunder, ‘ God ’!! ”
Coleridge, “ Ode to Mt. Blanc.”
Thus the [poet, carried away by the inspiration of the moment, utters words beyond the grasp of human understanding, words that are as impressive as their object; words that cannot be encompassed by the narrow limits of human thought, but which nevertheless are true.
Besides the majestic torrents and the raging ocean, we have also the peaceful lakes nestling among the hills. Mark also the stately trees and shady forests, the soft green carpet adorned by the brilliant hues of the fair children of Mother Flora, whose verdure covers hill and dale and charms the eye. “Truly we live in a world of.wonders and of beauty—wonders of power, wonders of intelligent handicraft, clothed in forms of loveliness! ”
Oh all ye nations! in harmony with all nature join then the hymn of praise, and proclaim aloud the Divine Author of so fair and wondrous a creation.	A. M. K.
Charlemagne.
Among the many nations of antiquity, the aims, the hopes, the aspirations and endeavors of every great man were centred in the political importance and temporal prosperity of the State or were only for his own personal aggrandizement, and he possessed no motive of action higher or more potent than these could supply. The security and well-being of the commonwealth were the sufficient aim and purpose of his life. These were his sole and his all, and constituted the one supreme rule of his conduct. But what a change when we come to the illustrious name of Charlemagne! He not only had all the noble qualities of those former champions in a peramount degree, but he had a higher aim. He not only wished to see the state in a prosperous condition, but, that it might have some guide for its sure permanence, he wished to see the Church one with it also. He wished to have the underlying principles of the state Christian. His idea of a state, he said, was that which the holy Bishop of Hippo had conceived and expressed in his “ De Givitate Dei," and this tendency was ever uppermost in his mind. It is the pervading idea which runs through all his capitularies, and especially in the one of 789, in which he introduced a new element into the government of his empire.
In examining the wonderful and complex structure of this empire one is struck with the truly religious character throughout. In the mind of Charlemagne religion was the only true sanction of any legislation, and without it it possessed neither authority nor true influence. The enlightened love entertained by Charlemagne for science, the zeal displayed in attracting the most learned men to his court, his industry in building schools and institutions of learning as a most beneficent means of civilizing his sub-
r
।
I	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	595
.	jects, and his solicitude for basing everything which he
I	undertook on religous	principles, prove that he was far in
j	advance of his age and	not unworthy of the high mission to
।	which he was called.	In his idea, religion was supreme,
i	but while recognizing	the close connection which should
|	exist' between Church and State, and the need of each
■	other’s support, and while ever careful not to encroach on
the rights of the former, he was not blind in defining religiously the respective limits of the authority of each. He appointed imperial deputies in order the more to consolidate the power of the state. The court,- consisting of ;	these deputies, protected the personal liberty of the sub-
jects, which was so frequently hazarded by the concentration of both the judicial and executive power in the hands of one person.
Charles the Great showed his true spirit in the address which he delivered at Aix-la-Chapelle when the abdicated his crown and royal dignity in favor of his son, Louis, sur-named the Mild, “ with,” as he expressed it, “ Christ’s consent,” and raising his voice to a higher key he exhorted the young prince before all things to love and honor God, to keep His Commandments, to protect the Church, and to regard his subjects with the, same feelings of kindness as his own children. The young prince upon being asked by his venerable father if he were prepared to comply with these injunctions answered that with the help of God’s grace he would.
The untiring energy displayed by Charlemagne, and the x	effects of Which were felt in every corner of his wide em-
pire, laid the foundation of all that is noble, beautiful and useful in the history of the Middle Ages. For centuries after he had passed away his memory was cherished by a grateful and loving people, who pointed out with pride the glory of the magnificent institutions bequeathed to them by the illustrious founder of the Germanic Empire.
But amid all the glories of his empire, Charlemagne was uneasy for its future welfare. Looking over the broad expanse of the Northern seas, where he could discern the ships of the barbarous hordes hovering about, his countenance assumed an expression of sadness, and, tears coming to his eyes, he exclaimed: “Alas! alas! if those men are so audaciously aggressive in my own time, what will they when I am no more ? ”
It would be well for the memory of Charlemagne if his domestic life had been more in keeping with his public, and had left fewer blemishes on his character. Then, too, would the long and fervent prayers which he was accus-tomed to say have been more efficacious at the Throne of ,,	Grace. Notwithstanding these ineffaceable blurs on his
I	character, Paschal, the Antipope in the time of Alexander
£	III, would have his name placed in the calendar of Saints;
I but it would seem that this measure had never been sanctioned by rightful authority, as the name has not at any r	time appeared in the Roman or the Benedictine Calendars,
’’	notwithstanding the fact that the Benedictine Order was
under his special favor and bounty. Still, all have agreed to the title of “Great,” and it cannot be disputed that he well deserves such a title. Having lived to a good age, he died on the 28th of January, 814, in the imperial palace at Aix-la-Chapelle. in the 72d year of his age and the 46lh of his reign. Buried in the Cathedral which he had built, seated on a throne of gold, bearing a sword by his side, with the cord of a pilgrim around his loins, and holding in * his hand a book of Gospels, Charlemagne seems still, in death, the presiding genius of his people and the inspirer
of those great conceptions which he realized during his lifetime.	’ T,, E.
An Essay on—Nothing in Particular.
If we were to ask the members of our class for the reason of their not always bringing forward their essays in time, I am confident that the answer of nearly all would be: “I can think of no suitable subject.” Now this is a great stumbling-block in the paths of most young writers. I can heartily sympathize with those unfortunate persons who commence writing upon many different subjects but never complete one of them. As I was sitting in the study-hall, idly gazing out of the window, and deploring my hard lot in having to remain in there when it was so pleasant out-doors, a happy thought struck me. Apropos of the fine weather, why not write upon Spring? So I compose myself, select a pen, scratch my head to enliven my ideas, and begin: “ Spring is the loveliest season of the year. The beautiful flowers awake from their long sleep. The earth puts off its winter cloak of gray, and again assumes its robe of verdure. The little birds lend their sweet voices to join in the praise of the Creator. The brooks, released from their prison of ice, once more speed on their way, sparkling in the sun. All vegetation puts forth its leaves and blossoms. Once more we hear the’jolly Juniors send up their voices in accompaniment to their Senior brethren, in that harmonious cry for ‘ Rec.,’ while the voices of the Minims are heard as from afar. But, alas! their hopes are to be blighted, even as are the flowers, now blooming, so brightly doomed to fade. But the picture has a darkside. Think of the terrible ravages of that energydestroying ‘ Spring-fever ’ I The bright sun looks down and sees— ” Ob, to the deuce with such a subject! It has been “ thoroughly ” worn out. Poets and painters have exerted their genius to do it honor, and what can I do to further that honor? Ah! there goes Prof. L.G. Tong, who has lately been elected Mayor of the city of South Bend. I consign my effort on “Spring” to the waste-paper basket, and now for “ Politics.” “ This is the science of government. In some unaccountable way, nearly all politicians havea bad name as regards honesty. I think it must be from their patron saint. It is related that a certain Pope, having a friend who was a politician, wished to determine the patron-saint of that profession. He accordingly conducted his friend to the gallery of statues in the Vatican, blindfolded him, and told him to select by touch, that God would guide his arm. There was a statue of St. Laurence roasting upon a gridiron near by, and also one of St. Michael expelling the devil from heaven. The politician gjoped around, and, feeling a recumbent figure, thought he had St. Laurence, but imagine his dismay when he found that he was hugging his Satanic majesty. It is generally the aim of politicians to get all they can, fair or foul, and go to Europe—” But I know no more about politics than the man in the moon, when considered scientifically. I really believe I can write more about the moon itself. “The moon is a celestial body, created by God to rule the night It was formerly thought to be made of green cheese, but recent investigations have proved the incorrectness of this theory. The ancients supposed this planet to have a bad effect upon those who fell under its influence, and when one was crazy he was called a lunatic, from the Latin word luna, the moon. And even in this generation of progress, when a young man is given to reciting poetry,
596
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
gazing at the moon and holding up a gate between himself and a young lady, he is said to be ‘ moon-struck.’ It is really fearful to contemplate what may be the state of our glorious country in a few years if this mistake is not corrected. It is clearly a mark of degeneration. The moon is supposed to be inhabited. There was an eightdays’ wonder in San Francisco a few years ago, namely a boy who said that his eyes were so constituted that he could distinguish nothing at a less distance than at the moon. He looked at it and said that the people were in the form of a wheel ‘ and rolled themselves along instead of walking.’ Many thought him to have fallen under the rather befuddling influence of Luna, but upon so important a question I will not venture to pass judgment. The moon is— ” But there goes the bell, and I must say in conclusion I think that, of all subjects, “A Subject” is the best subject for the subject of an essay.
W. A. W. (Jr. Dept.)
Cleobulus.
Among the Seven Wise Men of Greece, Cleobulus, though one of the least remarkable, was one of the most happy. He was a native of Lindus, a maritime town of the island of Rhodes, and son of Evagoras, monarch of that city, who claimed descent from Hercules. He flourished under the reign of Croesus, King of Lydia, about six hundred years before Christ His device had been, “Hens sanain cor-pore sano^ and it is related of him that he was especially remarkable for muscular strength and beauty of person, for the attraction of his countenance, and the great superiority of his wisdom and learning. According to Diogenes Laertius, he spent his youth, according to the custom of the times, in travels through Egypt, in order to acquire knowledge, and especially to study philosophy.
On his return from Egypt, Cleobulus married a good and virtuous wife, and lived among his family in great quie tude. An offspring of this marriage was the celebrated Cleobulina, who by her personal talent and application, and through the excellent instructions of her father, became so learned that she puzzled the greatest philosophers of her time, especially by her enigmatical questions. She was, besides, so kind and affectionate, that she took it upon herself to wash the feet of those friends and guests whom her father might convene on festive occasions.
On the death of his father, Cleobulus ascended the throne of the little state of Lindus. Plutarch says that he usurped it But however this may be, so much is known, that in this position he acquitted himself with as much ease as if but a single family had been committed to his care; everything that might engage his country in war he was careful to avoid or to remove, and always kept on good terms both with his own citizens and with strangers. When he was styled a tyrant it was owing only to his stringency as a legislator.
The explaining of all sorts of enigmatical questions and proposing others of a subtle nature constituted his greatest merit as a literary character. It was he who rendered famous in Greece the use of enigmas, which he had learned from the Egyptians. He is the author of the following: 1 am a father who have twelve sons, each of whom has thirty daughters, but the degrees of their beauty are very different: the countenances of some are white, others very black; they are all immortal, and yet die every day. This enigma implies the year. If the months are called sons and the days daughters, this is accounted for by
the fact that the Greek word for month is of the masculine and the word for day of the feminine gender. The epigram also which has been found on the tomb of Midas, and in which great praises are bestowed upon that fabulous Phrygian king, is a production of Cleobulus, though it has by some been improperly attributed to Homer and is published in connection with what are called Homeric Minor poems. The epigram read, as follows: I am a maiden sculptured in brass. Placed on the tomb of Midas, as long as water may be seen to flow in the plains, and the trees to flower in spring; as long as the rising sun makes men rejoice, and the moon by the brilliancy of her light dissipates the darkness of the night, as the rivers flow rapidly along between tbeir banks, and the ocean covers the shore with its waves, I shall be continually seen reposing on this sad tomb, announcing to the passengers that Midas lies buried here.
According to the philosophy of Cleobulus, virtue consisted chiefly in avoiding injustice and similar vices. Horace if he did not borrow this doctrine from the old sage at least entertained the same sentiment when he said:
“If free from folly, and of vice the foe,
Wisdom will bless, and virtue shield from woe.” *
Cleobulus used to say that in everything we ought to observe order, time and measure; that in order to banish the great folly which reigned in all states it was necessary to make every citizen live according to his rank and condition ; that there was nothing so common in the world as ignorance and loquacity; that particular attention ought to be paid to girls; that they ought never to get husbands except when virgins in age but matrons in behavior and mental accomplishments; that before strangers a man should neither caress nor censure his wife, for in the one case he discovers weakness, in the other folly. Endeavor, he said, always to possess noble sentiments, and to be neither ungrateful nor unfaithful; do good both to your friends and to your enemies, and you will secure the first and gain the last; before you stir from home think what you are to do, and when you return examine yourself and revolve in your mind all that you have done; speak little, hear much; speak ill of no one; always advise that which you think most rational; do not abandon yourself to pleasures ; if you have enemies, make up differences with them; do nothing by violence; pay attention to the education of your children; sport not with the misery of the wretched; if fortune smiles on you be not proud, but be not disconcerted either if she turn her back upon you; side not with a scoffer lest you become the enemy of his victim; choose a wife according to your rank, for if you marry a woman of higher birth than yourself you subject yourself to as many masters as she has relatives.
When Cleobulus learned that Solon had entirely abandoned his country, he did all in his power to induce him to come and live with himself. The following is the letter which he wrote him to this effect: “You have many friends, all of whom have houses ready for your reception. I think, however, you would nowhere be happier than at Lindus; it is a maritime city, and enjoys perfect freedom; here you shall have nothing to fear from Pisistratus, and your friends shall visit you in safety.”
Cleobulus could make the most of every advantage in an ordinary condition, and possess a life free from the embar-
* Virtns est vitium fugere, et sapientia prima, Stultitia carnisse.	-
THE NOTRE TAME SCHOLASTIC.	597
rassments of the world. He was happy as a father, happy as a husband, happy as a citizen, happy as a philosopher, happy as a statesman, and died at the advanced age of over seventy years, during all which time he had been highly honored. The inhabitants of Lindus testified their sincere regret on losing him, and erected over him a magnificent tomb on which was engraved an epitaph to honor his memory, conceived in the following terms: “ Lindus, surrounded by the sea on all sides, deplores the loss of one of her citizens, the wise Cleobulus.”	N.

x
The New-year’s Night of an Unhappy Man.
From the German.
An old man stood by the window on New-year’s midnight, casting alternate glances of deep despair up towards the immovable, eternally blooming heaven and down upon the quiet white earth, on which there was now no one so joyless and sleepless as he. His grave was close by; it was concealed by the snow of age, not by the green of youth. He brought with him nothing but errors, sin and sickness, a destroyed body and an age full of sorrows. The beautiful days of his youth appeared now as but spectres, which brought him back again to that fair morning on which his father had- placed him on the crossing of life, where to the right the sunny path of virtue led the way into an extensive and quiet land full of light, and peopled with angels; and to the left branched off a highway terminating in a dark cavern dripping with poison, and full of serpents ready to dart upon their prey. Ah, these serpents now coiled themselves around his body, causing his tongue to protrude by. the strangulation, and he could feel the dripping poison falling on it from above. Utterly horrified and bewildered, he turned towards heaven and with unspeakable grief cried out: “Oh, give me back my youth! 0 father, place me once more at the diverging roads, that I may make a better choice! ”
■ But it was too late; his father and his youth had long since departed, and he was now reaping the sad fruits of a misspent life. He saw ignis fatuus skipping and dancing upon the marsh, until they were lost to his sight in the grave-yard, and he exclaimed: “They are my silly days!” Then he saw a glittering star falling from heaven and disappearing as it touched the earth. “ That is myself," said his bleeding heart, and the serpent-teeth of sorrow dug deeper into the festering wounds. His heated imagination conjured up sneaking spectres, and the fanning windmill seemed a monster whose arms threatened to crush him at every moment, while a mask, which had been left in the charnel-house, by degrees assumed his own features, and gazed dismally upon him. In the midst of his struggles, musical sounds are heard for the New-year; they resemble church-songs at a distance. His mind becomes calmer, and he looks arouud the horizon and over the wide earth, calling to mind the friends of his youthful days, who are now happier and better than he, the honored instructors of youth, and fathers of happy children, and he said: “Oh, I could also rest this night without shedding tears, if I had wished. Oh, my dear father, I would now be happy if I had followed your counsels and new-years’ wishes in youth.”
Amid these feverish reminiscences it appeared to him as if the mask in the charnel-house rose up and became a living youth. He could no longer look upon it, but covered
his face with his hands, while the burning tears fell into the snow; he sighed and said, in a low voice, and in a disconsolate manner: “Come back, 0 youth! oh, come back once more! ”
And he awoke to find himself still in youth, for he had only been dreaming, so terribly dreaming during the new* year’s night;—he was still a youth, but his errors had not been a dream. And he thanked God that he could yet retrace his steps from the road of vice and follow the rugged but sunny path of virtue which led to the beautiful land beyond.
- Turn back with him, youthful reader, if you have strayed into the highway of error and sin, otherwise his dreadful dream will one day be to you a frightful reality, and when you wofully cry out: “ Come back, beautiful days of youth! ” the cry will be vain—they will have passed beyond recall.	F. W. (2d German.)
People who should not Smoke.
“Is smoking injurious?" This is an everyday question put by patients to their doctors. Like most questions of the kind, it involves too many considerations to admit of being answered by a plain yes or no. First of all, there must be an understanding concerning the quality of the tobacco to be smoked. Bad, rank, quickly prostrating tobacco (certain kinds of shag and cavendish, for instance) are always injurious, and few can smoke them at all without danger. So too with regard to quantity; even good tobacco smoked to excess will certainly be injurious to the smoker, sooner or later, in some way or other. Good tobacco, “Durham,” for instance, when smoked to excess will cause violent headaches.
Next as to the smokers. There are people to whom any tobacco, however smoked, is simply poison, causing, in small doses, vomiting and alarming prostration. Such people never get seasoned to its effect, even after repeated trials; and if they are wise they' will let it alone. They will display still further wisdom by not presuming to make laws for others, in order to persuade them to smoke.
No one can enjoy smoking when out of health. The phrase, “ out of health,” though it may sound vague, is definite enough to form a general rule. At the same time, it is useful to know what, if any, are the particular disorders and conditions of health in which tobacco does special harm.
To begin, a man with a bad appetite will, if he smokes, most assuredly eat still less—a noteworthy fact for smokers recovering from wasting illness. This effect of tobacco, by the way, while an evil to the sick man who cannot eat enough, becomes a boon to the starved man who cannot get enough to eat; an ample illustration of which was furnished by the French and German soldiers in the war of 1870.
Again, no man should smoke who has a sickly tongue, a bad taste in his mouth, or disordered digestive organs. It should be a golden ‘rule with smokers that the pipe or cigar which is not smoked with relish had better not be smoked at all.
One of the commonest and earliest effects of excessive or untimely smoking is to make the hand shake. This gives the clue to another class of persons who ought not to smoke—persons, namely, who have weak, unsteady nerves, and suffer from giddiness, confusion of sight,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tremulous hands, tendency to stammer, or any such symptoms.
Another class of persons who ought not to smoke are those who have weak or unsteady circulations and complain of such troubles as palpitation, cardiac pain, intermittent pulse, habitually cold hands and feet, or chronic languor.
Lastly, there is reason for believing that the habitual use of tobacco is likely to retard the due growth and devel opment of the body. If so, jio one should become a smoker till he is well up in manhood. Boys, moreover, have no excuse for smoking, for they are spared the hard wear and tear of adult life.
Now, after eliminating those who from idiosyncrasy cannot, and those who from bodily ailment or from tender years should not smoke, there will still always be a large residuum of happy folk who can smoke, enjoy smoking, and are indeed the better for it. Those are they who use tobacco without abusing it; or use it, that is to say, in moderate quantity, in due season, and honestly for the sake of the comfort which it gives them,—a comfort every bit as legitimate as that which drinkers of tea, coffee, or wine extract in each case from their favorite beverage.
J. F.
Scientific Notes.
—The International Congress for the investigation of the history of America before Columbus, will meet at Brussels some time in 1879.
—It has been generally asserted that the English sparrows are driving our native birds away from their accustomed haunts, and usurping their building places, but several instances have been lately noted in which the sparrows have been ejected from their legitimate homes by the blue-bird.
—The French Geographical Society has prepared for the Exposition a map of Africa showing the route of every explorer from 1754 to Stanley in 1878. The number of . travellers is 121, and forty-two of these are French. The first of them all was Mageur, who crossed the northern part of Madagascar.
—The ponds in Monument Lot, south of the Executive Mansion at Washington, have been adapted to the culture of carp for distribution throughout the United States. Prof. Baird already has about 400 carp in the ponds of the Maryland Fish Commission in Druid Hill Park, near Baltimore. A part of these will be transferred to Washington, and it is expected that a crop of young fry will be ready for distribution this fall.
—The recent discoveries of gold in New Guinea are creating a good deal of excitement in New Zealand and Australia. Exploring expeditions are fitting out in both countries. One organization in New Zealand will consist of eighty picked men, thoroughly equipped, ana conducted by an experienced leader. The plan of this expedition embraces an investigation of the coast-line of the island, and of the interior, as also of the climate, products, etc.
—It is remarked in Nature that “ The intellectual abilities of the Japanese race have been evidenced in a striking manner by a quartette of students from that country now studying in Berlin. One of these, Dr. Dirokitas, has lately invented an ingenious optical instrument termed the leu-coscope, which measures the variations in the perception of light and color by the human eye, in accordance with the strictest mathematical laws. Another, who has attained the rank of Lieutenant in the Prussian army, has introduced a remarkable simplification into the mechanism of the Manser rifle, which has succeeded the historic needlegun. Two more, who are prosecuting their chemical studies under Prof. Hofmann, have published for two years past several interesting synthetical researches on the aromatic series.”
—M. Edward Andre has an article in the Illustration Horticole, showing that the original home of our common potato is in South America, in the Andes, near the equator. He first found it growing wild on the summit of Quindio, near the volcano of Tolima, at a height of 11,400 feet in latitude 4° 34' north. He next found it at 6,200 feet high in the Cauca in latitude 1° 33' north, in May, 1866. It was growing as a handsome vine, supporting itself bn the neighboring trees and bearing magnificent flowers of a deep purple. M. Andre also found it in North Lima in the Amancoes mountain, where in the midst of a very scanty vegetation the potato is found growing in abundance. It is equally common in the island of San Lorenzo, near Callao. M. Andre is convinced that Humboldt is entirely mistaken in his opinion that the tuber did not exist either in Chili, New Granada, or Peru.
• —A paper read before the Queensland Philosophical Society, at Brisbane, discusses the 'medicinal products of Duboisia myoporoides, a plant belonging to the Scrophu-lariacem. It is a small tree, or shrub, found in Australia and adjacent islands, an extract from the leaves of which has a powerful effect upon the eye, dilating the pupil the same as belladonna. The active principle of the extract seems to be nearly identical with atropine. A good deal of attention has been given to the new agent, and it has come into common use in Sydney and Brisbane. It is said to have the power of drying the mouth or preventing the flow of saliva, and of producing headache and drowsiness, while it is quicker and more energetic in its action than either antropine or belladonna. The local name of the Duboisia is “Corkwood tree,” borrowed from its light, corky bark. The wood is light-yellow in hue, of soft and even grain, and much used in the colony for carving.
—Col. Gazan has communicated to the French Scientific Association some interesting observations on the fracture of iron. This may be “ nervous, in grains more or less fine, or in facets sometimes having a surface of several square milletres; often it presents a mixture of these three features.” To judge of the quality of iron, it is necessary to break it: therefore, in arm-manufactories, a certain number of bars are first broken; then manufactured into the pieces for which they were intended; after which the pieces are broken to ascertain their resistance. The best irons are those that break with a nervous fracture; the next are those that break with a fine grain; and next, those with facets. It has been proved that rails used in railways are affected quite differently when placed in the direction of the magnetic meridian from what they are when placed at right angles to this direction. The former oxydize and do ' not become brittle; the latter do not oxydize and do become brittle. In intermediate directions the rails partake more or less of the qualities of those which are placed in the two extreme directions.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Walter Waylen, of Hartford, Conn., has in press a work entitled “Studies in Catholic History.”
—Pope Leo XIII is a poet. His verses, both in Latin and Italian, are being gathered together for publication after revision by his Holiness.
—The Lady Blanche Murphy has translated from the French “ Conversations on Home Education; or, A Mother’s Advice to her Children.”
—Mr. J. L. Sibole’s book, “The English in Ireland,” arraigns Great Britain for its oppressions after the same style as Mr. E. A. Freeman in his attacks on the Turks.
—The copyright upon the earliest of Dickens’ works is now expiring, and already three cheap editions of the “Sketches by Boz” have been brought out in England.
.—The Russian painter Verestchaguine, who accompanied Gen. Skobeieff during the late war, is now in Paris, occupied in transcribing some of the graphic incidents of the campaign.
—An important addition is about to be made to Catholic literature. The Very Rev. R. Cooke, O. M. I., we understand, is engaged upon a biography of Monsignor Eugene
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
599
de Mazenod, founder of the Order of Missionaries of Mary Immaculate.
—An illustrated book printed on the papyrograph is to be seen at the New York bookstores. The tin-foil book of the phonograph has not yet made its appearance, but it is suggested that some publisher should issue a phonograph edition of Dickens.
—M. Lucien Adam has published, through Maisonneuve, of Paris, his “ Etudes sur Six Langues Americaines— Dacotah, Chilicha, Nahuate, Hechua, Quiche, Maya.” He has also published a “ Comparative Grammatical Examination of Sixteen American Languages.”
—The colossal statue of Jan Van Eyck, which was produced in bronze by the system of electric deposition, has been lately completed at Brussels. The galvanic process occupied several months; and the result is said to be a much more perfect representation of the model than could have been obtained by casting.
—The number of students of Russia has during the last year been increasing fast. To meet their demands for a Russian grammar in English, Mr. Trubner has had prepared, and will shortly publish, a revised and improved English version of the Russian “ Ollendorf,” of which only German and French versions have hitherto existed.
—A large collection of letters and documents addressed to Michael Angelo are preserved in the Casa Buonaroti, at Florence. A catalogue of them, thrown into the form of an index, is published by the Academy, and fills above two columns. But few of these documents have been pub-lished,—their owner asking a moderate sum for them, which no one has yet been willing to pay.
—A fac-simile of the unique manuscript of the earliest Anglo Saxon poem, “ Beowulf,” in the British Museum, is to be published by the Early-English-Text Society. The editor, Mr. Skeat, will transliterate and translate the original, add collations of the best modern editions of the text, and write a critical introduction, notes and a glossary.
—In the autumn Boston is to have a school of Art Needlework, on a plan similar to that at South Kensington, England. The institution is intended for the mutual benefit of persons who want specimens of art needlework, and of persons who can execute it, and is less a school than an art exchange, although instruction will be provided for those who need it. The designs used in the school will be provided by artists and persons of taste, and it is thought that they will be so good, and will be so well executed, that there will be a large demand for the work of the school.—The Pilot.
—It was the will of Goethe that no likeness or cast of his face should be taken after his death; yet the landscape painter, Prof. Fr. Preller, managed to gain access to the death-chamber, and draw a pencil-sketch of the poet ds he lay, with the laurel crown on his head, in his last, dreamless sleep. An inferior copy of the sketch was surreptitiously made for Bettina Von Arnim’s book called “ Goethe’s Correspondence with a Child,” but otherwise it has beeu sacredly treasured by the owner. Recently, a fac-simile of the portrait has been reproduced by photography, and sold for the benefit of a German charitable institution.
—All Cherubini’s manuscripts are about to be put up for sale by auction. He was an enthusiastic collector, and got together an enormous quantity both of manuscripts and autographs, in the course of his long life. He had in his possession some of the most curious and interesting pieces in manuscript of Sebastain Bach, Emmanuel Bach, Beethoven, Mozart, Weber, Gluck, Ad Kreutzer, Meyerbeer, Michael Haydn, Mendelssohn, Alsbechsberger, Fres-cobaldi, Sarti, Scarlatti, Ducante, Pergolesi, Paisiello, il Padre Martini, Cattaro, Sacchini, Salieri, Viotti, Spon-tini, Rossini, Carafa, Auber, Herold, Halevy, Adam, etc. One, especially, a symphony (la symphonie en ut mineur), by Joseph Haydn, is entirely in his own hand, and is inscribed, “De moi, Joseph Haydn, pere du celdbre Cherubini.” The French Government have for some time been in treaty with the present proprietors of those relics for one of the national libraries, and a most liberal competing offer has been sent from Berlin. Besides a great number of the manuscripts of his known works, Cherubini left several which have never been published. These are also to be sold.
—Among the artistic curiosities of the coming French Exhibition may certainly be mentioned M. Gustave Dore as a sculptor. This is a new phase of his versatile talents. He is going to exhibit an enormous vase four metres in height, with a diameter of two metres. It terminates in a straight narrow neck, on the brim of which children are seated, maintaining their equilibrium with difficulty, being intoxicated by the fumes issuing from the amphora. The body and pedestal of the vase are adorned by little Bacchanalian figures, men, women, and children, fauns and Dryads led by Silenus mounted on the back of a crocodile, and entangled in flowers and foliage covered with butterflies, mice, weasels, and lizards, also intermingling. It is a strange, almost audacious production, but manifesting powerful originality. Every figure is a study. The vase itself has, perhaps, the fault of not resting on a sufficiently broad base, but as a whole the work is calculated to produce a sensation. Gustave Dore is finishing another sculptural group of quite a different and very classical kind, “The Prize of Glory”—a young hero dying beneath the kiss of Glory. This group is of real beauty. The forms, though rather effeminate, are striking, the proportions are graceful, and the expression is mild, profound, melancholy, and natural. This group is the work of a thinker and, philosopher, and curiously enough, it does not betray the painter either in subject or execution. It is really the work of a sculptor, and places Gustave Dore in a new light, which cannot but add to his renown.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from Peter F. Collier, 24 Barclay St., New York, Father Thebaud’s “The Church and the Gentile World,” in two volumes, which we will notice at length next week.
—We have received from the Catholic Publication Society Co. the “ Handbook for the Children of Mary,” Cardinal Manning’s “Love of Jesus to Penitents,” and Father Formby’s “ Philosophy of Ancient History.” Next week these books will be noticed.
One of God’s Heroines. A Biographical Sketch of Mother Mary Teresa Kelly, Foundress of the Convent of Mercy, Wexford. By Kathleen O’Meara. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St. 1878.
This short yet interesting life of a holy servant of God, from the pen of “ Grace Ramsay,” originally appeared in the pages of the Ave Maria, where it attracted much attention not only because of the graceful style in which it is written but also because of the many acts of Christian virtue related. We are glad to see it printed for general reading.
A Life of Pope Pius IX. By John R. G. Hassard. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St. 1878.
Mr.Hassard has written this short and concise account of the life of our late glorious Pontiff, Pius IX, with the intention of showing the spirit which animated him in the discharge of the great trusts in his keeping rather than to chronicle all the acts by which his reign was marked. It is written with care and elegance, and must have a large sale. Mr. Hassard is a ripe scholar and an accomplished writer, and has brought all his talent to bear in the preparation of this work. It is an excellent book to put into the hands of young men.
Six Sunny Months. By M. A. T., Author of “ The House of Yorke,” “Grapes and Thorns,” “A Winged Word,” etc. To which are added other stories. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St. 1878.
The stories contained in this volume, the chief of which is “ Six Sunny Months,” were originally published in the Catholic World, a magazine which has justly earned for itself a high place among the monthlies of our day. The stories themselves are of great interest, and as they attracted many readers in the Catholic World we believe they will receive the same cordial greeting from the public in general. There is a great need of interesting popular literature among Catholics, and stories such as these help to supply this want.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Danie, May 18, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame InA, and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SOHOT, ARTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Danae, Indiana.
“An Evening with. Shakspeare.”
Last Saturday Mr. R. King, the celebrated Shakspearian reader, arrived at Notre Dame, having been invited to give a reading for the students studying elocution. It has long been customary here to have readers of note appear before the students, and Mr. King has in former years favored us with selections from Shakspeare. He was not, then, a stranger when he arrived, and we believe that the pleasure felt by all on his arrival was shared by the gentleman himself.
Before giving his grand reading in Washington Hall, Mr. King gave selections from Hamlet, Richard the Third, and Julius Caesar before the members of the Class of Elocution, and on Saturday evening he gave in Phelan Hall selections from Hamlet, Julius Caesar, Othello and other Shakspearian tragedies, to an audience composed of the members of the various literary societies. But the night for the grand reading in Washington Hall came and with it a large audience, made up chiefly of students, Professors, etc. The reading that night was made up of the third act of Othello, the first act of Macbeth, and part of the third act of Hamlet.
We had heard what the New York Times had written of him: “If Mr. King can play the part of Hamlet as well as he read it last night at the Hope Chapel, he will equal any living representative of that most difficult of all the characters of Shakspeare.” We were prepared then to listen to some excellent reading, but we were not prepared to expect what we did witness. Prof. King does not read from manuscript. The play-book he throws aside, and taking his place on the stage he acts the parts of all the characters in the scene. The favorite parts given here were those from Hamlet and the scene in Othello, in which the Moor relates how he won Desdemona, and Iago advises Roderigo. To follow him through all his reading would be impossible here,—such a proceeding would take up too much space and would make us act the part of a commentator of these
plays of Shakspeare. Of his manner of acting we can do no better than to repeat almost the words of a critic by saying that he is neither a reader alone nor an actor merely: he is both, and far more. In his presentation of the drama, which is more than a mere performance of the play, there is the intellectual purpose of the scholar, the insight of dramatic genius, the studied care of the skilled reader, the life of the actor, with nothing conventional in voice, manner or accessory to divert from the true thought and sentiment of thejpiece. The versatility .[tenacity and exactness of hisjeady memory, are something phenomenal. The whole play seems to stand before him like a picture or a scene in nature, from which, with true artistic skill, he selects—or rather spontaneously takes up—what is the most striking and fitting. Not the least remarkable are the succinct narratives, statements, and ‘ resumes ’ of the scenes and course of the play in minor portions, with which he connects the various characters and events throughout. In effect, in words precise and picturesque, he unfolds the entire action ; the great parts and scenes do not overshadow the small, nor do the smaller confuse the greater. From beginning to end the drama progresses continuously and naturally—the action “knows no retiring ebb.” At the end the emotions have been stirred and the feelings awakened, at the same time the auditor retires with a sense of satisfaction which can come only from a profound and consistent appeal to his intelligence.
The reading in Washington Hall was “ An Evening with Shakspeare,” and will long be remembered by the delighted audience. It was creditable to the students here that these entertainments, the most purely intellectual to conceive, should have wrought so much enthusiasm among them and were received by them with the absorbing interest that manifested itself on each countenance. We hope that Prof. King may find it convenient to come frequently to Notre Dame.
Russia’s Destiny.
Coming across an article on the destiny of Russia in one of our German exchanges, the Katholische Kirclienzeitung, we were so well pleased with it that we have taken the substance pf it and embodied it in this article, sometimes giving a literal translation of it.
Russia is a powerful Empire. With its vastly extended boundaries it reaches at once the very centres of Europe and Asia, and, touching China as well as America, it baffles our imagination less by its immensity than our reason by its providential destiny, still hidden in the designs of Heaven, and is suggestive of serious reflections. As if by chance, and least by political necessity, but with no less cause by its intellectual tendency, which has not the slightest affinity to the schismatical sophistry of the old Byzantines, it professes the Greek religion. But it is impossible that it should accomplish the design marked out by Providence 4f it does not one day return to Christian unity. Viewed in itself, Russia is indeed nothing else than an accumulation of nations, blended together in a measure, and which need the stronger tie as they are scattered upon an almost boundless territory. But what else could weave such a tie save the harmony of ideas that take their root injthe mind of man, and what besides religion can convey common ideas to mankind ? But religion itself can do so only by unity of doctrine and priesthood, because in the shape of Protestantism its effects are in one respect more pernicious
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
601
than unbelief itself, since it gives to spiritual dissension an almost divine sanction. Although Greek schism is less dangerous than Protestantism, everyone acquainted with Russia’s present condition knows to what a degree of insignificance its doctrinal power has shrunk down, and how much the vast Empire is undermined and dissevered by religious sects on one hand and sceptical indifference on the other, in the same measure as it becomes accessible to European civilization. To be brief, two objects are needed for the life of any being : an organized body and a mind dwelling within it. Russia’s body is that of a giant, but its mind is that of a mere youth, who has attained in foreign lands the best forms of politeness, who speaks several languages fluently, who, being of good morals, is a brave soldier; who loves the arts and sciences without ever being able to become an adept in them, and who is wanting in nothing but profundity and creative vigor. He may have been in his childhood immersed in the waves of the Sarmatian rivers, but he never could receive that real baptism from which all prodigious Christian nations have sprung.
This absurd proportion between the body and the mind of the Russian Empire is the more striking when we consider its future destiny. What could it offer to the benumbed Orient to reinstate it in its organic shape, to manage and to create new institutions in the newly conquered lands, and, what is still more difficult, to rebuild it under the weight of ruins piling up for a thousand of years ? In reality Russia can offer nothing better than the fruit of their own crimes as salvation to those countries, which not for a single instant have been freed from the scourge of Divine vengeance since they tore asunder the body of Christ’s Church by petty religious quarrels. It will bring schism to schism, death to death, saying: Behold here the chalice you have drained to your ruin; let us sit down to the ancient repast; let us drink of it and live. I understand completely the apparent profit of a common mistake, if this mistake is still of recent origin and has not yet brought forth its fatal consequences, if it has still preserved the treacherous glow of its first youth; but what could be added to a rotten carcass, and what could be expected from it ? At the point Russia has now reached, its first necessity is to become Catholic, and it will become so as soon as its sovereign gives his consent to and is first to show the example of return to the true Church.
To prove this we may remark that natural development remains seldom unfinished, and it is not probable that Providence should withhold a man from that Empire, with its marvellously defined boundaries, who would do for it what Peter I could not do in his time, who would show himself the creative ruler for the spirit that Peter I had been for the body of Russia.
Personal.
—Among our visitors last Wednesday were Rev. T. O’Sullivan and Jacob Wile, Esq., of Laporte, Ind.
—J. Frank Zahm (Commercial), of ’65, who now resides at Toledo, Ohio, visited Notre Dame on Wednesday last.
—Thomas A. Dailey, of ’74, has left his school at Carlisle, and has again resumed his position on the South Bend Herald.
—Mr. John A. McGee of Philadelphia, Pa., in company with Mr. Wills, of South Bend, called on us at the beginning of the week.
—Mark M. Foote, of ’73, returned to Notre Dame on the
13 th of May and has determined to remain. Mr. Foote has not changed a whit since leaving Notre Dame.
—Mr. Sievers, of Chicago, and Prof. Emil Zott, of South Bend, were among our visitors last Wednesday. Mr. Sievers reports his son Louis (Commercial), of ’77, as doing very well in business.
—Prof. R. King, of Chicago, the well-known Shak-spearian reader, spent several days at Notre Dame. Mr. King is a gentleman of culture, and became a great favorite here not only because of his excellent reading but also because of his gentlemanly manners.
—On Wednesday last we were favored with a call from Rev. Vincent Barzynski, of the Congregation of the Res- ' urrection and pastor of St. Stanislaus’s Church, Chicago. Rev. Father Barzynski is at present giving a mission at the Polish church in South Bend, of which "Rev. Father Czyzewski, C. S. C., is pastor.
—James E. McBride, of’68, retired on the evening of May 4th from the position of Police Justice of the city of Grand Rapids, Mich., a position which he held for the last four years with great credit. ' On that evening the Chief of Police and the whole force gathered at his office and presented him with a beautiful gold-headed cane. The presentation address was made by the Assistant City Attorney, and was responded to by Mr. McBride in an eloquent and feeling reply.
—Mr. M. Newman, New York city, spent a few days with us last week. He was passing through from his southern trip, and as his nephew and some acquaintances were here he thought better to remain a few days. He was here twenty-two years ago, and says he has never seen an institution increase as has Notre Dame, and furthermore if business would not prevent him he wouldjemain several months here to enjoy the beautiful scenery and pure air that is found in our vicinity. He is always a welcome visitor.
—The Middletown (Ohio) Journal of the 11th inst. gives a fine account of an entertainment given in that city by the pupils of Holy Trinity schools, of which T. M. O’Leary (Commercial, of ’75) is the principal. Rev. W. T. F. O’Rourke, the pastor of Holy Trinity parish, was himself an honored member of the faculty at Notre Dame for some years. The principal dramatic feature of the evening was “ The Drunkard’s Warning,” a temperance drama in three acts, followed by a light comic piece. At the conclusion, Rev. Father O’Rourke thanked Mr. O’Leary for his able management of and devotedness to the schools, and the people showed their appreciation of this devotedness by presenting him a purse of fifty silver dollars just from the mint.	.
Local Items.
—Copies of Shakspeare were in great demand the first part of the week.
—The Catalogues will this year be issued about two weeks after the Annual Commencement.
—Messrs. M. Regan and W. L. Dechant showed great taste in decorating the stage for Prof. King on the occasion of his reading.	'
—Mr. Thomas F. O’Grady has been appointed to represent the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary on Society Day.
—The members of the various literary societies are very thankful to Prof. King for the many favors shown them while he was at Notre Dame.
—The championship game of baseball was postponed until next Wednesday. At present the University Club has won one game and the Enterprise Club one.
—The reading of Prof. King at the beginning of the week worked a number of students up to a high degree of enthusiasm, and will be a great help in urging them on to a better style of reading.	'
—The Catholic Vindicator of Milwaukee, Wis., has been added to our exchange list. Judging from the number before us it is a neatly printed weekly and contains all the Catholic news of the week.
1
602
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—An exciting game of baseball was played last Wednesday between a picked nine of the Juniors and one of the Minims. At the end of the 5th inning the score'stood 10 to 11, in favor of the Minims.
—B. Augustus has just received a fine stock of “ dusters ” and is now ready to supply every one desiring anything in that line. He has also just received a splendid new machine, and is prepared to make suits in quick time and first-class order.
—The Juniors boast of having a table in their refectory where the occupants are conversant with seven languages, viz.: English, French, German, Spanish, Greek,Latin and Hebrew. It is fine to see them eating in some of the foreign tongues.
—The new Chapel at the St. Joseph Farm was blessed last Wednesday morning. Very Rev. President Corby sang High Mass and preached a most appropriate sermon. There were present on the occasion Rev. Fathers Demers, L’Etourneau, Frere, and others.
—The excellent readings from Shakspeare, given by Prof. King, have done much good among the students. As often as bis services can be secured there will be rejoicing here. Those who did not hear him lost a grand treat, for as a reader he is far superior to the great majority of Shak-spearian readers or actors.
—We call attention to the card of Prof. Emil Zott, of South Bend, to be seen in our advertising columns. Prof. Zott, we have reason to believe, is an excellent musician, and has in his possession excellent recommendations. To the people of South Bend, Mishawaka, Niles, Carlisle, etc., we heartily recommend him, confident that satisfaction will be given to all engaging his services.
—Last Thursday Willie O’Brien, a little boy of the neighborhood, nine years of age, strayed into the Junior yard, where a large group of the boys collected around him. Some of the piously inclined boys began to ask him questions in Catechism, when to their surprise he answered all that were asked him. Some of the boys speak of making him a present We think he richly deserves one.
—It is the verdict of every person who sees them that the display of varied beauty in the gardens, and of skilful landscape gardening in the parks and surrounding grounds and Campus, of the different divisions of Seniors, Juniors and Minims, never showed off to such advantage as in this month of May. Of course the unusually advanced state of the season has much to do with this state of things.
—The 30th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association and the 32d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Pnilomathean Association were held together, in the regular place, on Monday evening, May 13th. The time of the meeting was pleasantly spent in listening to Prof. King delineate characters in Shakspeare. The members of both Associations tendered him a unanimous vote of thanks. Rev. Fathers Walsh, Zahm, Kelly, Lilly and Bros. Leander Paul and Philip were present.
—A member of the Excelsior Baseball Club will not likely forget the rule which comes under section 8th, Spalding’s Baseball Guide, viz.: “ When three balls have been called by the umpire, the batsman shall take one base, provided he do so on the run.” This young man started on a run for 1st base, when a chum met him midway and offered him a piece of pie. He could not resist the temptation and stopped to receive the proffered gift. He was accordingly declared out by the umpire.
—A premium having been promised by the Professor of Greek to the boy in the 6th Greek Class who would receive the highest percentage in the class during the month of April, an extra examination was made and the usual monthly competition held. The premium was won by Master F. W. Bloom, of Vincennes, Ind. The premium is a very handsome sketch of an oil painting by Prof. Luigi Gregori of Rome, and, though not a finished painting, exhibits at once the superior touch of a truly artistic hand.
—The Mutual Baseball Club held a meeting Monday, May 13lh. At this meeting Bro. Leander was elected di
rector ; Bro. Paul, Honorary Director; W. Cox, Captain; J. Mathews, Treasurer; J. D. McNellis, Secretary; G. Crawford, Field-Captain. The positions of the nine are: J. Mathews, Catcher; W. Cox, Pitcher and Captain; C. Clark, Short-Stop; M. Burns, First Base; G. Itlenbach, Third Base; J. McNellis, Second Base; G. Crawford, Left Field; John Baker, Centre Field; T. F. McGrath, Right Field; J. Ittenbach, Substitute.
—The singing during the May devotions being exclusively congregational, as it was last year, the young gentlemen from the College should make it a point to take their hymn-books along with them to church, in order to join in the singing. Most of them do so, but not all who have good voices, and who would materially aid in giving a fine effect to the singing. We notice that when the Seniors—and even some of the Juniors—forget their books the effect produced is not as pleasing as it might be. Every Catholic student should make it a point to have books suitable to the devotions, either his Kyridle, Ves-peral, or Hymn-book, as the case may be, and always his prayer-book at Mass, in order to follow the service and prevent distractions.
—Wednesday, May the 8th, being the Feast of the Apparition of St. Michael, has always been one of the festivals of the Holy Angels’ Society. This year they celebrated the day in an appropriate manner by approaching Holy Communion in a body. The banquet in the Senior refectory .was a grand affair, and was attended by numerous and distinguished guests, among whom we remarked Very Rev. Father Provincial, the Rev. Vice-President of the College, the President of the Society, Mr. McNamara, C. S- C., Brothers Edward and Albert. The Society is in a prosperous state. By the way, we must compliment our young friends on their edifying behavior while in the sanctuary, and we trust that they will continue to spare no pains or effort to make their conduct in future comport with the angelic title of their society.
—It is seldom the citizens of St. Joseph County have an opportunity of seeing such a gorgeous display of that famous and highly prized flower, the historical tulip, as is to be seen in the gardens of the University here. The garden tulip was originally a native of the Levant, and was for a long period cultivated by the Turks. It was introduced into western Europe in 1554 from Constantinople into Holland, from which placejthe exportation of bulbous flower roots now forms a staple article of trade. At this moment a cultivator from Amsterdam has on exhibition in Paris a bed of tulips containing 15,000 bulbs! Some two hundred years ago an insane speculation in tulips extended over Europe, when several thousand dollars were paid for a sin-bulb. In the reign of George III an English gentleman gave 100 pounds sterling for a white tulip bulb called the " Infant of Mount Carmel.”
—At a special meeting of the Columbian Club, held Tuesday evening, May 14th, Messrs. Bannon, Spalding, and McConlogue, being about to leave for home, addressed the members in neat farewell speeches. They will all be back in September. On Wednesday, the 15th, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted: “Be it resolved, That we, the members of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club, deeply regret the necessity of losing the above named members, and we most fervently wish for them a future of active usefulness in their different stations amongst new associations, ever praying that by a well ordered life they may each merit an eternal reward; that they carry with them to their homes the regard and good wishes of each of our members.” The Committee on resolutions was P. J. Doherty, J. Fitzgerald, and A. B. Cougar. Prof. R. King of Chicago then delivered a very pleasant little speech, giving the members sime good advice. ' Brother Theodore was present. After complimenting the members about to go away on their gentlemanly conduct during their stay at the College, the President distributed a souvenir to each of them.
—Very Rev. E. Sorin, writing under date of April 20th from Rome to some friends at Notre Dame, among other things says:—“But I am anxious to inform you of my object this morning in visiting his Eminence Cardinal Sim-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	603
a eoni, one of the best friends we ever had in Rome. It was to bid him good-bye, as we intend—Mgr. Dufal and myself—to leave on Monday, 22d inst. Before rising, I said: “ Your Eminence, I trust you will not let me leave Rome without a souvenir of the saintly Pio Nono for our new church at Notre Dame.” “No,” said he; “certainly not.” j He rose immediately and called in one of his servants, with ; whom he went to the farthest end of the palace. Ten minutes after he returned to us, with his valet de chambre behind carrying a beautiful tableau, richly painted, and said with a charming smile: “ I trust, my dear Father Sorin, you will be pleased with this precious memento, comingas it does f from the Holy Father’s own room. I am glad it goes to your fine American church.” You may imagine that I thanked the good Cardinal with all my heart. Connoisseurs have already come to look at the tableau, and pronounce it admirable. It is a Madonna with the Divine Child. I never saw anything sweeter, more modest, more divine. It is 3% feet square. Monday evening the painting will leave Rome for Notre Dame.”
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given sat. isfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, M. W. Bannon, T. Barrett, J. E. Cooney, E. Calkins, E. J. Dempsey, P. J. Dougherty, E. C. Davenport, A E. Dorion, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, E. C. Gramling, F. Hellman, A. J. Hertzog, J. J. Houck, M. Hogan, J. S. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, T. Hale, A. W. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, J. Kotz, J. R. Lambin, F. Luther, A. A. Leut, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. Murphy, H. Maguire J. D. Montgomery, E. Maley, O. S. Mitchell, C. F. Mueller, C. Marentette, V. F. McKinnon, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, J. P. McHugh, M. J. McCue, E. J. McMahon, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, Wm. Ohlman, C. O’Brien, J. J. Quinn. J. P. Quinn, E. W. Robinson, J. Rogers, Jno. Rothert, Jas. Kelly, J. Rice, J. Rabbitt, T. 8. Summers, S. T. Spalding, J. S. Smith, J. S. Sheridan, P. Vogel, M. Williams, F. Williams, G. S. Walters, F. J. Walter, E. Ward.	_
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. T. Burns, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, J. M. Byrne, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Bushey, H. E. Canoll, T. F. Clarke, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, D. S. Codington, J. S. Cassard, R. French, L. H. Garceau, H. A. Gramling, J. P. Hafner, J. L. Healey, G. L. It-tenbach, J. L. Halle, J. B. Ittenbach, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, W. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, J. T. Matthews, C. A. McKinnon, T. E. Nelson, P. P. Nelson, H. J. Newmark, G. Orr, J. S. O’Donnell, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, S. S. Perley, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, A. W. Sievers, F. W. Singler, W._ Stang, E. 8. Walter, W. A. Widdicombe, F. E. Weisert, G. H. Cochrane, C. E. Cavanagh.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. McDevitt, A. Coghlin, N. Nelson, Jas. Courtney, W. Coghlin, W. Coolbaugb, C. McGrath, Jno. Inderrieden, O. Farrelly, C. Garrick, C. Herzog, J. Seeger, E. Esmer, E. Herzog, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, J. Boose, S. Bushey, C. Bushey, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, C. Welty, T. Barrett, F. Berry, M. Devine. T. O’Neill, P. Fitzgerald, J. Crowe, H. Snee, J. Chavas.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. G. Ewing, J. P. McHugh, J. J. Coleman, J. McEniry, W. L. Dechant, A. Hertzog, L.Evers, H. Maguire, J. P. Kinney, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, J. A,Burger, W. A. Widdicombe, J. D. Montgomery, P. F. McCullough, M. J. McCue, P. W. Mattimore, J. J. Shugrue, A. B. Congar, F. Cavanaugh, F. W. Bloom, J. Berteling.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, W. McDevitt, G. Lambin, W. Coghlin, C. Crennen, Jos. Courtney, J. Courtney, W. Coolbaugh, N. Nelson, F. Gaffney, A. Hartrath, R. Costello, C. Crowe, C. Garrick, C. McGrath, Jos. Inderrieden, H. Snee, C. Long, F. Berry, W. Rheinhardt, O. Farrelly, G. Rhodius, J. Boose, C. Herzog, J. McGrath, T.
O’Neill, J. Devine, T. McGrath, E. Esmer, F. Farrelly, T. Barrett, H. Kitz, C. Bushey, E. Herzog, M. Devine, L. Young, J. Chavas.
List of ExceHence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director op Studies.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—J. G. Ewing, J. P. McHugh, H. Maguire, M. J. McCue, P. W. Mattimore, F. W. Bloom, W. A Widdicombe, P. F. McCullough, J. Cooney, H. Nevans ; Greek—J. P. McHugh, J. G. Ewing, L. Evers, F. W. Bloom, J. Healy, C. Hagan, J. Cooney; English Composition—P. Dougherty, F. Hoffman; Rhetoric— J. Fitzgerald; English Literature-; Essays and Criticism —L.Evers, A. Hertzog; Algebra—W. Murphy,,P. F. McCullough; Geometry—A. B. Congar, M. Regan, F. Keller; Trigonometry— P. McCullough ; Calculus—J. McEniry; Astronomy—J. P. Kinney ; Surveying—P. F. McCullough, M. J. McCue, J. J Houck, J. P. Kinney, J. D. Montgomery; Mechanics—J. J. Coleman; History—J. J. Quinn, J. P. McHugh, E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, J. J. Shugrue, V. McKinnon, A. J. Hertzog, W. J. Murphy; Physics—J. A. Burger; Chemistry—M. J. McCue, J. A. Burger; Botany—L. J. Evers, M. McCue, J. A. Burger, J. Montgomery; Physiology—T. F. O’Grady, G. Cassidy; Zoology—J. Berteling, F. Cavanaugh, G. P. Cassidy, J. A. Burger.

—On Wednesday, Feast of the Apparition of St. Michael the Society of the Holy Angels was granted recreation.
—Space does not permit this week an account of one of the best, very best acquirements of the Graduating and Third Senior Classes. The flavor will last we hope.
—The programme of the Sunday evening reunion was as follows: “Pancratius,” by Eleanore C. Donnelly, read by Miss Mary Ewing with excellent taste and in a full, rich voice; “L’Ecolier,” par Mme. Debordes Valmore, read in her usual clear manner by Ellen Mulligan; “Das Glassgemalde,” Chr. von Schmidt, finely rendered by Adelaide Kirchner, and an ingenious parody on Edgar A. Poe’s famous “ Bells,” composed by her teacher, and admirably read by Miss Annie Cavenor.
—The beautiful festival of the Patronage of St. Joseph coming this year in the month of flowers, gave occasion to loving hands to adorn the altars with the wealthy gems of nature. Among the artistic arrangements the altar of the glorious Saint was resplendent with little lamps, imbedded in a mass of white flowers, glistening like the beams of the sun on a beautiful snow-drift The effect was lovely and preached its own sermon of purity to the hearts of the three First Communicants, Thecla Pleins, Caroline Ortmayer and Ellen Hackett. As these children approached to receive their Divine Lord, many and fervent prayers ascended to heaven that by the protecting power of St. Joseph they should be pure and, faithful to the end.
BoH of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
[The editor of the Scholastic is not responsible for the spelling, etc., of the names in these lists. As there is no rule for the spelling of proper names, these are printed as given by the young ladies themselves.]
Graduating Class—Misses Bay Reynolds, Elizabeth O’Neill, Minerva Spier, Pauline Gaynor, Amelia Harris, Mary Cooney, Anastasia Henneberry, Mary O’Connor.	”
1st Senior Class—Misses Cecilia Boyce, Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Emma Lange, Bridget Wilson, Ida Fisk, Mary Ewing.
2d Senior Class—Misses Mary Way, Sallie Hambleton, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Eleanore Keenan, Elizabeth Keena, Mary McGrath, Mary Luce, Ellen King, Zo<S Papin, Anna Woodin, Blanche Thomson, Mary Birch, Catharine Barrett.
3d Senior Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Frances King-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
field, Angela Ewing, Mary Brown, Julia Burgert, Alice Morgan, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Sullivan, Ellen Galen, Emma Shaw, Adella Gordon, Annie Cavenor, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Lola Otto, Martha Wagoner, Marie Plattenburg, Catharine Lloyd, Florence Cregier, Mary Winston, Thecla Pleins, Mary Mulligan, Elizabeth Walsh.
1st Peep. Class—Misses Anna McGrath, Lucie Chilton, Adelaide Geiser, Mary Cleary, Henrietta Hersey, Ellen Mulligan, Margaret Hayes, Blanche Parrott, Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Us-selman.	.
2d Pbep. Class—Misses Ellen Kelly, Julia and Alice Barnes, Ellena Thomas, Ollie Williams, Imogene Richardson, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Lambin.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Linda Fox, Laura French, Mary Hake, Agnes McKinnis, Louise Wood, Frances Sunderland, Caroline Gall, Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Miller, Mary McFadden.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd.
2d Jr. Class—Misses Amelia Morris, Lucile MeCrellis, Eva Swaggart, Bridget and Teresa Haney, Manuelita Chavas.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Misses Mary Cooney, Ellen King.
2d Latin Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Maria Plattenburg, Mary Luce.
ERENCH CONVERSATION.
1st Class—Misses Mary McGrath, Eleanore Keenan, Clara Silverthorn, Bridget Wilson, Hope Russell, Amelia Harris.
2d Div.—Misses Genevieve Cooney, Julia Burgert, Anna McGrath.
2d Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Mary Ewing, Adelaide Geiser.
3d Class—For Improvement and Application in French Conversation—Misses Zod Papin, Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Birch, Mary Brown, Martha Wagoner, Angela Ewing, Ellen Mulligan, Matilda Whiteside, Ida Fisk, Julia Butts.
3d Class—Misses Mary Casey (100), Emma Shaw, Mary Danaher, Fannie Kingfield, Lucie Chilton, Mary Mulligan, Linda Fox, Laura French, Mary Cox.
4th Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Genevieve Winston, Annie Cavenor, Henrietta Hearsey, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Brown, Lulu Wood.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Caroline Ortmayer.	.
2d Div.—Misses Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Usselman, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gall.
2d Class—Misses Annie Reising, Catharine Barrett, Elizabeth O’Neill, Anastasia Henneberry, Florence Cregier, Mary Ludwig.
3d Class—Misses Mary Way, Sallie Hambleton, Cecilia Boyce, Mary Lambin, Ellen King.
2d Div.—Misses Charlotte Van Namee, Alice Farrell, Minerva Loeber, Blanche Parrott, Imogene Richardson.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Bridget Wilson, Thecla Pleins.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Minerva Spier, Amelia Harris, Elizabeth O’Neill.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Frances Kingfield, Leota Buck, Mary Usselman, Delia Cavenor, Anastasia Henneberry.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Julia Burgert, Matilda Whiteside.
2d Drv.—Misses Emma Lange, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Far-• rell, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Annie McGrath, Ellen McGrath, Caroline Ortmayer, Annie O’Connor.
4th Class—Misses Anna Reising, Ellen King, Alice Morgan, Catharine Hackett, Pauline Gaynor, Annie Maloney.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Way, Mary Winston, Caroline Gall, Mary Mullen, Imogene Richardson.
5th Class—Misses Annie Cavenor, Mary White, Catharine O’Riordan, Genevieve Winston, Florence Ci egier, Catharine Barrett, Martha Wagoner, Zoe Papin, Mary Danaher, Emma Shaw, Anna Woodin.
2d Div.—Misses Lola Otto, Mary Cleary, Henrietta Hersey, Marie Plattenburg, Angela Ewing, Ellen Hackett, Louise Wood, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Halligan, Laura .French, Cecilia Boyce.	*
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Rebecca Netteler, Linda Fox, Minerva Loeber, Mary Lambin, Sophia Rheinboldt, Ida Fisk, Elizabeth Schwass, Ellena Thomas.
2d Div.—Misses Blanche Parrott, Mary Birch, Mary Hake Ellen Kelly, Lucie Chilton, Ellen Wright.
7th Class—Misses Alice Barnes, Agnes McKinnis, Julia Kingsbury, Lorena Ellis, Sallie Hambleton, Mary Cox.
8th Class—Misses Mary McFadden, Lucile MeCrellis.
9th Class—Miss Alice King, Lilian Swaggart, Eva Swaggart. Harp—Misses Delia Cavenor, Ellen Galen.
Organ—Misses Blanche Thomson, Catharine O’Riordan.
Harmony—Misses Bridget Wilson, Thecla Pleins, Elizabeth Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Clara Silverthorn.
For Scales and Exercises—Misses Ellen Galen, Delia Cavenor, Mary Brown, Imogene Richardson, Caroline Gall, Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, Elizabeth Schwass, Rebecca Netteler, Blanche Parrott, Ellen Kelly, Agnes McKinnis, Leota Buck, Alice Farrell.
In the Theoretical Classes visited May 10 the subjects treated proved interesting, if we can judge by the strict attention given. The importance of forming a correct, and at the same time an expressive “touch,” was dwelt upon. So many examples of the different manners of striking had to be left, and the “ bell ” for once was unwelcome. We shall look with pleasure to a da capo.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Delia Cavenor.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Annie Reising, Mary Usselman.	■
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Genevieve Winston, Agnes Brown, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Reardon.
2d Div.—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Sophia Rheinboldt, Imogene Richardson, Clara Silverthorn.
4th Class—Misses Julia Burgert, Mary Winston, Anna Woodin, Anna Cavenor, Alice Farrell, Mary Casey, Ellen Galen, Matilda Whiteside.
5th Class—Misses Mary McGrath, Mary Mulligan, Henrietta Hersey, Eleanore Keenan, Mary White, Mary Hake, Marcia Peak, Angela Ewing, Elizabeth Schwass.
General Class—Misses Elizaibeth Miller, Laura French, Ellen King, Linda Fox, Charlotte Van Namee, Julia Butts.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
* HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange, Bay Reynolds.
2d Class—Miss Delia Cavenor.
3d Class—Misses Marie Plattenburg, Leota Buck, Julia Burgert, Sallie Hambleton, Alice Farrell, Adelaide Kirchner.
4th Class—Misses Mary Way, Lola Otto, Hope Russell, Laura French, Elizabeth Schwass, Ellena Thomas, Catharine Riordan, Julia Butts, Ellen Mulligan.
Promoted to the 4th Class—Misses Caroline Ortmayer, Lucie Chilton, Florence Cregier.
5th Class—Misses Anna Reising, Minerva Loeber.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Pauline Gaynor, Charline Davis, Minerva Spier, Marv O’Connor.
4th Class—Miss Matilda Whiteside.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Miss Bay Reynolds, Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Charline Davis, Elizabeth Kirchner, Delia Cavenor, Mary O’Connor.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Emma Shaw, Lola Otto, Mary Brown, Blanche Thomson, Alice Morgan, Agnes Brown, Ellen Galen, Mary Luce, Margaret Hayes, Ellen King, Ellena Thomas, Catharine Barrett, Elizabeth Kcena, Mary Sullivan, Imogene Richardson, Marcia Peak.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Frances Kingfield, Julia Kingsbury, Agnes McKinnis, Annie McGrath, Adelaide Geiser, Mary Lambin, Louise Wood, Lorena Ellis, Angela Ewing, Julia Butts, Laura French, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Elizabeth Miller, Mary Lyons.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL NEEDLE-WORK.
1st Class—Misses Caroline Ortmayer, Mary Winston, Genevieve Winston, Bridget Wilson, Mary Luce, Mary Usselman, Lola Otto, Agnes Brown, Elizabeth Schwass.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Farrell, Adella Gordon, Florence Cregier, Mary McGrath, Sophia Rheinboldt, Ollie Williams, Ellena Thomas, Catharine Barrett, Imogene Richardson, Eleanore Keenan, Ida Fisk, Thecla Pleins, Annie McGrath, Angela Ewing, Mary Cooney, Anna Reising, Alice Barnes, Charline Davis.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRESS MAKING AND PLAIN SEWING.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Schwass, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Usselman, Mary Ewing.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Kelly, Ollie Williams, Mary McGrath, Louise Neu.
GENERAL SEWING CLASS.
1st Class—Misses Cecilia Boyce, Mary Usselman, Minerva Spier, Hope Russell, Mary and Genevieve Winston, Thecla Pleins, Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary O’Connor.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth'Kirchner, Alice Farrell, Louig Neu, Elizabeth Walsh, Emma Shaw, Blanche Parrott, Mary Mullen, Mary Cleary, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Sullivan.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Anna Reising, Minerva Spier, Mary O’Connor, Mary
r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	605
Cooney, Sarah Moran, Cecilia Boyce, Clara Silverthorn, Mary Way, Annie Woodin, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Ellen King, Zo<S Papin, Catharine Riordan, Mary Halligan, Mary Brown, Harriet Buck, Thecla Pleins, Catharine Hackett, Agnes Brown Mary.Sullivan, Alice Farrell, Alice Morgan, Genevieve Winston, Caroline Ortmayer, Sophia Rheinboldt, Margaret Hayes, Mary Cleary,Blanche. Parrott, Henrietta Hersey, Julia Barnes, Matilda, Whiteside, Ollie Williams, Mary Ludwig, 100 par excellence. Misses Elizabeth O’Neill, Anastasia Henneberry, Pauline Gaynor, Bay Reynolds, Hope Russell, Emma Lange, Bridget Wilson, Ida Fisk, Mary Casey, Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Kirchner, Anna Maloney, Florence Cregier. Lola Otto, Elizabeth Walsh, Julia Burgert, Elizabeth Schwass, Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Mary Winston, Anna Cavenor, Mary Usselman, Elizabeth Keena, Louise Neu, Minerva Loeber, Ellena Thomas, Ellen Kelly, Mary Mullen, Alice Barnes, Marcia Peak.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Mary Mulligan, Angela Ewing, Adelaide Kirchner, Frances Kingfield, Annie McGrath, Adelaide Geiser, Ellen Mulligan, Ellen Hackett, Linda Fox, Mary Hake, Agnes Mc-Kinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Caroline Gall, Alice King, Bridget Haney, Teresa Haney, Margaret Ivers, Lucile McCrellis, Amelia Morris, Eva Swaggart, 100 par excellence. Misses Lucie Chilton, Laura French, Mary McFadden, Lillie Swaggart.
—Here is an instructive contrast. First, as “ Poor Richard” had it in 1777:
Farmer at the plow, Wife milking the cow, Daughter spinning yarn, Son thrashing in the barn, All happy to a charm.”
And now for the modern improvements in 1877: Farmer gone to see a show, Daughter at the piano, Madam gaily dressed in satin, ’All the boys learning Latin,
With a mortgage on the farm.
—A writer puts a good deal of good sense and a good many p’s in a small space in the following: Persons who patronize papers should pay promptly, for the pecuniary prospects of the press have peculiar power in pushing forward public prosperity. If the printer is paid promptly and his pocket-book kept plethoric by prompt-paying patrons, he puts his pen to paper in peace; he paints his pictures of passing events in more pleasing colors, and the perusal of his paper is of more pleasure to his people. Paste this piece of proverbial philosophy in some place where all persons can perceive it. Be pleased, also, to ponder upon it thyself patiently and perseveringly, and profitably and persistently practice its precept perpetually.
—The German newspapers quote from a Dutch newspaper, Va^Haarlem Courant, the following announcement of a death^ dated Breda, the 3rd April“ On the 12th of February, 1878, died at the age of thirty-five years, my dearly-beloved son, Ange Emmanuel, the descendant of my husband, the Duc de Normandie, son of Marie Antoinette and Louis XVI, King of France. He served in the navy of His Majesty, the King of the Netherlands, as second machinist on the Curacao, and died at Weltevreden of brain fever.—Dowager de Bourbon, Duchesse de Normandie.”
—The Irish have a curious legend respecting what they call “ Blaiad na oge”; in other words, “The blossom of youth.” ' The legend is this: “An Irishman at one period went to Denmark, where he was hospitably received, much to his astonishment. He was taken into immediate favor by those among whom he visited. He was told that in a certain part of the County of Limerick, from which it appears he came, there was a crock of gold hidden under a whitethorn bush in a garden, which was so clearly pointed out to him that there could be no mistaking the locality. He was further told that among the gold was a remarkable circular piece of coin with which he should return to Denmark, but that he might become the possessor of all the gold in the crock with the exception of that particular circular piece. The Irishman was obedient to the letter. He returned to Denmark with the circular piece, and kept for himself all but that. The Danes were rejected. A very aged Dane, having been rubbed with the wonderful circular piece of gold, at once become young again, fresh and vigorous as in the days of his boyhood. So with other Danes, “ You have brought back,” said they, “ the ‘ Blaiad na oge? the blossom of youth, and Ireland shall be poor evermore.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST, LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KA^SAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line..............................7	30	am	9	00 pm
Peoria Day Express...............      3	40	pm	9	00 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Exl......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00 pm
J.C.McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its •
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its	_
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Wlnona-Roehester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	.
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvix Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago.	Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Ur,kse&llo. TYPE FOUNDERS,
CHICAGO,
Have the largest and mast complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast irom best quality of raetal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied ou short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse &Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.
606
-	'	H
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE '	_
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy's, I refer, by permission, to the Snperiorsof both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..16 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m
Peru accommodation.—............. 5 00 p.m. 9 45 a.m
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 30 a.m
A M. SMITH,	A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No. 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 P.M.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,			12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,	3.10 A.M.	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,..............	4.46 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,				7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,’.	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,				9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,			10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,		1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Ply mouth,............	3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,.	Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,			9.10 P.M.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 P.M.	
Plvmnnth			2.46 am.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,			655 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,				8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
FnreRt	 				10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline		....Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,...............		2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,					4.05 “	11.15' “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Ror.hBster.				«	1.21 a.m.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Puluman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New _Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	__
F. B.5MEBS, G. P. & T. A.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 36,1877.
Northward Trains.		No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.		No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.	
Lv. Indianapolis	 u Kokomo			4.35 P. M 7.10 “ 8.10 “		12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ 10.47 “	
Ar Peru							
						
Lv. Peru.			8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 ** 12.40 A. AT.			11.10 A. M. 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “	
“ Plymouth							
“ LaPorte							
“ Michigan City							
						
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W., Chi. & Detroit Ex.		No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.			No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis.... “ Kokomo		5.30 P. M. 2.55 “ 1.50 “		4.10 A. M. 1.50 “ 12.38 “			9.10 A. M. 6.33 “ 5.37	“
Ar. Pern							
						
TjV. Peru			1.27 P. M. 11.24 “ 10.00 “	' 9.10 A. M.		12.33 a. ar. 10.25 P. M. 8.50 “ 8.05 “			
u Plymouth							
“ La Porte							
“ Michigan City..						
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
,	GOING EAST.	.
•• a 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 6 52a m.
9 1 a P m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 210 am; Cleveland, 7 05a m; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4. 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
a 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 pm, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago. 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 9 35 am, Way Freight.	.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
. CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	607
Lessons in Music.
PROF. EMIL ZOTT, having now taken up his residence in South Bend, is prepared to receive pupils or give private lessons in Music, Vocal or Instrumental, at moderate charges, in South Bend, Niles, Mishawaka and the surrounding neighborhood. Persons wishing to engage his services may apply at his residence or address him through P. 0. Box 1027, South Bend.
To those who desire the services of a competent Music Teacher the following testimonial from Rev. M. Oakley, S. J., Pastor of the Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, ■will be a sufficient guarantee:
Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, Feb. 20,1878.
It gives me pleasure to state that Prof. Emil Zott, bearer of present, gave perfect satisfaction as an organist and as a gentleman to his employers, and to me in particular, during the five or six years that he was Organist at the Holy Family Church in this city.
From my own experience and that of others, 1 know him to be very competent to teach the Piano, and especially Vocal Music. He is an excellent director of music and trainer of a choir.
Ever since he ceased his connection.with the Holy Family choir he has always enjoyed the reputation of a good moral man and a perfect gentleman.
M. Oakley, S. J.
JAMES BONNEY THE HHOTOGEAFHEH,,
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOTTTH EZEJSTJD, TnSTZ^IAnSTA.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
CATHOLIC JOTTS/lTA.r.
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLY FATHER PIUS K, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO ZHI,
And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henbi Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS :
One Year......................................8 2 50
Five Years.....................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each)...20 00 A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered. Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., owosite Sherman House,
-	Chicago, Illinois.
A NEW SYSTEM
OF
German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University cf Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FB. PUSTET,
52 Barclay Street, NEW YORK, anfl. 204 Vine Street, CINCINNATI.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted iu the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifnlly engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into t he regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Ind
608
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BROAVIST «fc HABVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELE [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpTTmt AS R. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
I Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Pulton), New York. ' Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJMTMTIN'CS- «fc HOGFAJV [D. J. Hogan, of 741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, DI.
JOTT1V F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE dt DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm. W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly-made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
Orville t. chamberlain (of ’6i), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.	,
McBRIDE	MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the V. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WIIFLTANI J. CL 1RKE (of ’74). Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TAMES A_. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Time Table-Noy. 11, 187'7'.
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 28 “	11 10 “	6 20 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 	'	10 45 “	12 15 “	8 14 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 40 p.m	10 00 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 45 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 45 “	6 30 “		3 35 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m		9 50 p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.n	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	4 00 a.m	2 53 “	2 25 a m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	4 24 “	12 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	7 50 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 45 “
INiles and Sontli Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame— 852 “	638 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabb,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, DI.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLOMBIAN, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, of ’70.
THE AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.	'
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.	.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
TITHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop., Niles, MichI igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, DI. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
Clp-' CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZitJ neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
‘	Mishawaka, Ind.
0 CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic ZitJ Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons,
■ Notre Dame, Ind.'
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collecttons of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy, was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of al] the spec! es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, araness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and m most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Numbeb of Specimens •	25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments		$ 50	$1	$1 50	$ 1	$ 2	$ 3
Students’ size, larger	 Amateur’s size, 2W in. x 1 %...	1 50	3	6	5	10	25
				10	25	50
Highschool or Acad. size,2^x3U in. shelf specimens				25	50	100
College size, 3^x6 in., shelf specimens					500	100	3 00
Send for the, bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D„
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
Bistory, Central Park, New York.'