"XjAJBOTt O3INIA •VIjVCIT.”

Volume V.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 29, 1872.
Number 42.
Hates of the Esaminatica
CLASSICAL COURSE.
Moral Philosophy.—The average note of this class is no less than 95. The members of the class showed a remarkable degree of proficiency and great readiness in answering and elucidating the questions put to them by their examiners. The best notes at the examination were given to Messrs. M. Keeley, J. McHugh. M. Carr was best in written dissertation. Rev. P. Colovin, S.S.C., Professor.
Ancient Literature.—Average note of class, 80. Best notes deserved as follows: M. Keeley, T. Ireland, M. Mahoney, J. McHugh, J. Shannahan and M. Carr. Rev. A. Louage, S.S.C., Professor.
Second Latin—Average note, 80. Best notes deserved by D. J. Hogan, M. Foote, E. Gambee. Rev. W. F. O’Rourke, Professor.
Third Latin.—Average note, 85. Best notes deserved by T. O’Mahony, T. White, P. Fitzpatrick. T. E. Howard, A. M., Professor.
' Fourth Latin.—Average note, 80. Best notes deserved by F. P. Leffingwell, C. Dodge, J. Wnlsh, W. Clarke. J. A. Lyons, A. M., Professor. \
Fifth Latin.—Average note, 80. Best notes deserved by T. Murphy, M. Bastorache, J. E. Hogan, H. Walker. A. J. Stace, A. M., Professor.
Sixth Latin.—Average note, 80. Best notes deserved by H. Dehner, P. J. O’Connell, A. J. Dickerhoff, J. D. McCormick, W. P. Breen. J. A. Lyons, A. M., Professor.
Seventh Latin.—Average note, 75. Best notes deserved by T. Hansard, E. Marshall, M. McCormack, T. Renshaw, M. Weldon, J. Campbell. W. Ivers, A. M., Professor.
Eighth Latin.—Average note, 70. Best notes deserved by T. Dundon, F. Devoto, E. Dougherty, E. Graves. W. Ivers, A. M., Professor.
Third Greek—Average note, 85. Best notes deserved by T. O’Mahony, D. Hogan, D. Maloney. A. J. Stace, A. M., Professor.
Fourth Greek.—Average note, 70. Best notes deserved by M. Foote, T. P. White, L. Hayes, C. Dodge. Rev. W. O’Rourke, Professor.
Fifth Greek—Average note, 70. Best notes deserved by F. P. Leffingwell, A. Dickerhoff, H. Walker, J. Caren. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M., Prof.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
Astronomy.—Average note, 90. Best notes deserved by P. Fitzpatrick, M. H. Keeley, and N. S. Mitchell. T. E. Howard, A.M., Professor.
Trigonometry.—Average note, 85. Best notes deserved by F. P. Leffingwell, J. D. McCormick, M. M. Foote. T. J. Dundon, P. J. O'Connell, T. P. White. T. E. Howard, A.M., Prqfessor.
Surveying.—Average note, 90. Best notes deserved by T. P. White, J. D. McCormick, P. J. O’Connell, T. J. Dundon, P. Fitzpatrick. A. J. Stace, AM., Professor.
First Geometry.—Average note, 60. Best notes deserved by D. Maloney, W. P. Breen, S E. Dum. D. A. Clarke, S.B., Professor.
Second Geometry.—Average note, SO. Best notes deserved by M. Shiel, C. M. Proctor, J. Walsh, P. O’Mahony. Rev. J. A. O’Connell, S.S.C., Professor.
First Algebra.—Average note, 90. Best notes deserved by D. E. Maloney, T. J. Dundon, J. D. McCormick. IV. Ivers, A.M., Professor.
Second Algebra.—Average note, 85. Best notes deserved by F. P. Leffingwell, W. P. Breen, R. J. Curran, S. E. Dum. A. J. Stace, A.M., Professor.
Third Algebra.—Average note, SO. Best notes deserved by C. W. Dulaney, C. Dodge, J. Carr, T. J. Murphy. D. A. Clarke, S.B., Professor.
Fourth Algebra.—Average note, 75. Best notes deserved by T. Phillips, H. L. Dehner, J. Rourke, E. Dougherty, W. Clarke. Rev. J. A. O’Connell, S.S.C., Professor.	.
Mental Philosophy.—Average note, 80. Best notes deserved by N. S. Mitchell, T. O’Mahony, T. Graham, J. McCormick, P. O’Connell, T. Dundon. Rev. A. Louage, S.S.C., Professor.
-(■English Literature.—Average note, 95. Best notes deserved by D. and J. Hogan, M. Foote, C. Dodge, C. Hutchings. T. E. Howard, A.M., Professor. ’	r
First Rhetoric.—Average note, 85. Best notes deserved by D. E. Maloney, F. P. Leffingwell, T. /Graham, R. Curran, IV. Breen, T. White, Jno. Gillespie. F. C. Bigelow, S.S.C., A. M., Profssor.
Second Rhetoric.—Average note, 85. Best notes deserved by A. Dickerhoff, L. Godfrey, E. Barry, C. Berdel, J. E. Hogan. D. E. Hudson, S.S.C., Professor.	•
History.—Average note, 75. Best notes deserved by R. J. Curran, T. Phillips, E. Barry. H. Dehner, J. D. Hogan, J. Bowen, J. Crummey. T. E. Howard, A. M., Professor.
Philosophy—Average note, SO. Best notes deserved by T. O’Mahony, J. McHugh, M. Keeley, T. Ireland, M. Mahoney. Rev. T. Vagnier, S.S.C., Professor.
Chemistry.—Average note, 70. Best notes deserved by T. F. O’Mahony, J. F. McHugh, N. S. Mitchell, M. Keeley. Rev. T. Vagnier, S.S.C., Professor.
Zoology—Average note, 85. Best notes deserved by Mark Foote, T. F. O’Mahony, John McHugh, M. IV. Carr. Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C., Professor.
Rotany—Average note, 90. Best notes deserved by T. F. O’Mahony, M. Mahoney, M. H. Keeley. Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C., Professor.
Mineralogy—Average no e. 100. Best notes deserved by T. F. O’Mahony, N. S. Mitchell, M..H-Keeley. Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C., Professor.
Geology—Average note, 95. Best notes deserved by T. F. O’Mahony, N. S. Mitchell, John McHugh, P. J. O’Connell, D. J. Hogan. Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C., Professor.
Human, Physiology—Average note, 85. Best notes deserved by T. F. O’Mahony, J. D. McCormick, T. Ireland, John McHugh. Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C., Professor.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
First Grammar, (Sr.)—Average note, 80. Best notes deserved by P. O’Mahony, J. M. McFarland, F. Devoto, J. S. Dunne, C. H. Donnelly, O. A. Wmg, J. Langenderfer, J. Caren, J. F. Wernert M. Shiel, J. B. Zimmer, Jamess Crummey. J. A. Lyons, AM., Professor.
Second Grammar (Sr.)—Average note, SO. Best notes deserved by Thos. Garrity, E. G. Graves, W.
Gross, F. Egan, N. Saylor, Thos. Finnegan, J.
Pumphrey, T. Hansard. A. J. Stace, A .M., Pro- ♦ fessor.	.
Third Grammar (Sr.)—Average note, 80. Best notes deserved by George Roulhac, D. Gahan, T. Fitzpatrick, W. Moon, F. Carlin.	'
Fourth Grammar (Sr.)—Average note, 80. Best ■ notes deserved by F. St. Anbin, S. Valdez, C.P..
Thomas. Rev. J. M. Toohey, S.S.C., Professor^	*
First Grammar (Jr.)—A verage note, 70. Best notes deserved by D. J. O’Connell, J. Carr, W. Bali, J. Quill, J. Spillard, E. S. Monahan, E. 01-will, W. Fletcher. Rev. J. A O’Connell, S.S.C., Professor.	•
Second Grammar (Jr.)—Average note, ,75. Best notes deserved by A. Kleine,-H. Spillard, J. Me- ' Nally, J. Marks, H. Shephard, E. Milburn. Bro.
Benjamin, S.S.C., Professor.	‘
Third Grammar (Jr.)—Average note, 90. Best * notes deserved by G. Gross, J. Graham, L. Munn, F. Miller, F. M. Smyth, W. Green, J. Murphy. J.
Edwards, Professor.	.
Fourth Grammar (Jr.)—Average note, 75. Best \/ notes deserved by W. Morgan, W. Murphy; E, * Edwards, H. Long, N. Nirdiinger, W. Lucas, J.
Burnside. John A Zahm, A.B., S.S.C., Professor. -
Fifth Grammar (Jr.)—Average note, 60. Best • notes deserved by W. Kane, D. Gluckauf, E.Poor, S. Wile, H. Enneking. Bro. Emmanuel, S.S.C.,	•
Professor.	‘
First Arithmetic (Sr.)—Average note, 95. . Best notes deserved by P. E. Cochrane, J. Ireland, P. O’Mahony, E. Newton, C. H. Donnelly, John -E. Hogan, P. Logue, J. Rumely, H. Saylor, T. Watson, J. Wernert, J. B. Zimmer, M. Shiel. Excellent class. W. Ivers, A.M., Professor.
Second Arithmetic (Sr.)—Average note, 70. Best notes deserved by J. Carr, W. Dodge, W. Meyers, J. B. Comer, B. W. Drake, J. McAlister, M.‘ Bastorache, T. Finnegan, T. A Hansard. Dennis A. . Clarke, B.S., Professor.
Third Arithmetic (Sr.)—Average note, SO. Best ' ‘ notes deserved by W. Moyer, J. Wernert, J. Shanks.
James Cunnea, A.B., Professor.
Fourth Arithmetic (Sr.)—Average note, 40. Best . notes deserved by J. K. Finley, W. Wilcox. Jas.
Cunnea, AB., Professor.
First Arithmetic (Jr.)—Average note, 95. Best notes deserved by C. Hutchings, F. Devoto, E. Roberts, E. S. Monahan^W. Dodge, J. Wuest, E. ‘ Dougherty, F. McOsker. W. Ivers, AM., Professor.
Second Arithmetic (Jr.)—Average note, 80. Best notes deserved by H. Heckert, G. Roulhac, L. Hibben, E. Milburn, M. McCormack. Bro. Benjamin, S S.C., Professor.	-
Third Arithmetic (Jr.)—Average note, 95. Best notes deserved by J. Pumphrey, W. Ball, J. Porter, W. Lucas, D. O’Connell, Geo. Kirt, V. McKinnon, E. Marshall. Bro. Emmanuel, S.S.C., Professor.
Fourth Arithmetic (Jr.)—Average note. 80. Best notes deserved by W. Muller, B. F. Fischer, J. Burnham, L. H. Busch, J. Graham, H. Shephard, _ J. Birdsell, H. Hoffman, A Paquin, G. Gerew, J. " Sherlock, J. Dore, J. Burnham. D. A. Clarke, B.S., Professor.
Fifth Arithmetic (Jr.)—Average note, 75. Best
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
notes awarded to O. Tong, A. Wile, E. Poor, J Pratt, W. Olden, W. Morgan, H. Enneking. Jas. Edwards, Professor. *
Sixth Arithmetic (Jr.)—Average note, 40. Best notes deserved by D. Gluckauf, J. Haynes, S. Wile, T, Hopkins. James Cunuea, A.B., Professor.
First Reading (Sr.)—Average note, 60. Best notes deserved by J. Wernert, L. Hayes, T. Hansard, J. Dougherty, James Crummey.> Joseph A. Lyons, A.M., Professor.
First Reading (Jr.)—Average note, 90. Best notes deserved by J. Burnside, J. Langenderfer, J. Marks, S. Marks, H. Shephard, W. Ball, J. Sherlock, G. Gerew, A. Filson, H. Long, J. D. McIntyre, F. Sweger. J. A. Lyons, A.M., Professor.
Second Reading (Jr.)—Average note, 80. Best notes deserved by J. Dore, A. Wile, A. Schmidt, W. Ohlen, H. Nirdlinger, F. Livingston, F. Dowe. Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C., Professor.
Third Reading (Jr.)—Average note, 85. Best notes deserved by H. Enneking, R. Lewis, F. Bauer, EL Hoffmar, M. Davidson, T. Mullen, Brother Gabriel, S.S.C., Professor.
Dictionary Class—Average note, 85. Best notes deserved by E. G. Graves, C. M. Proctor, T. H. Jones, F. St. Aubin, S. Strayer, D. F. Gahan. Rev. W. F. O’Rourke, Professor.
First Orthography (Jr.)—Average note, 90. Best notes deserved by J. McNally, H. Nirdlingt r, J. Langenderfer, J. McGinniss, J. Dunn, C. St. Clair. Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C., Professor.
Second Orthography (Jr.)—Average note, 70. Best notes deserved by J. Burnside, W. Meyers, F. Sweger, A. Schmidt, W. Kinzie, W. Ball, J. Graham, S. Marks, R. Kelly. Jas. Edwards, Professor.
Third Orthography (Jr.)—Average note, SO. Best notes deserved by E. Marshall, J. Kauffman, G. Gross, J. Bracken, E. Milburn, W. Beck, S. Wile, A. Wile. Rev. J. Toohey, S.S.C., Professor.
First Geography and United States History.— Average note, 95. Best notes deserved by EL Long, E. Milburn, D. O’Connell, W. Gross, J. Burnside, W. Ball, S. Marks, J. Marks. D. A. Clarke, B.S., Professor.
Second Geography and United States History.— Average note, 90. Best notes deserved by J. Sherlock, F. Livingston, W. Murphy, O. Tong, D. Gluckhauf, F. Butters. Jas. Edwards, Professor.
First Christian Doctrine.—Average note of class, SO. Best notes deserved by J. Dunn, E. Marshall, M. Weldon, D. O’Connell, J. Campbell. D. Tighe, S.S.C., Professor.
Second 'Christian Doctrine.—Average note, 80. Best notes deserved by J. Dore, O. Tong, G. Gross, F. Kauffman, W. Morgan, A. McIntosh, E. Poor, J. Pratt, F. M. Smyth. Rev. J. Toohey, S.S.C., Professor.
MUSIC.
The students of the Musical Department were called, last Saturday, to the Grand Parlor to pass their examination, and show the proficiency which they had attained during the year. Taken as a whole the Music Department this year is ahead of other years. More attention has been bestowed upon it, more progress has been made and more students have attended it. However, it cannot be inferred that it has reached a very high standard of excellence, and that there is but little to do to lift it to the grade it should occupy as a department of art. It is yet, and it has to be, a primary department for two-thirds of the students who attend it, and have to be taught the first rudiments of-music. Another third is divided through various classes, which grow less numerous, as to the number of students, as they ascend in grade. The First Class of Piano, which supposes a very perfect knowledge of the instrument and skilful playing, had no attendance this session.
The Second Class had three students, Messrs. C. Hutchings, R. Staley, and W. Campbell. Each of these young artists obtained No. 100 at the Ex
amination. Their playing was good and accurate, and their position graceful. It would be hard to say which of the three is superior, although C. Hutchings would seem to have best studied his instrument.
In the Third Class of Piano, J. G. Bowen obtained 95, the best note given in the class. W. Beck acquitted himself in a satisfactory manner, and was marked 80. W. Breen played well, and deserved 85. C. St. Clair obtained 75. He will do very well when he is more self-controlled. J. Campbell and J. G. Bowen were noted 60. A. Schmidt, 50.
In the Fourth Piano Class, Master C. Beck, a young minim, played his piece in a very pleasing manner, keeping good time and excellent control of himself. He obtained 90 for’ his note. M. Bush, H. Quan and A. McIntosh did passably well, and were noted 60. H. Schnelker, W. Ball and M. Weldon were awarded 80. J. Porter, 50.
In the Fifth Class of Piano, O. Waterman and F. M. Smyth deserved 80; F. Mullin, 75; E. Barry, 70; E. Raymond, 50; B. Roberts 50; J. Graham, 70; W. Beck, SO; W. Dee, 50.
The Violin Classes were generally better represented than the Piano Classes. In the First Class J. Staley obtained 95; J. Kauffman, 100.
In the Second Class, J. Carr was awarded 100; H. Heckert, 95. His position and handling of the bow was probably the best in the Class. W. Byrne received 95. He will be quite an artist.
In the Third Class, J. Noonan received 109; G. Roulhac 100; W. Quinlan, 85. A. Klein, 70. Some of the pieces selected for examination seemed to have been somewhat above the ability, of the players, hence some inferior notes.
In the Fourth Class, EL Beckman and H. Devine, obtained 85 each; W. Lucas, 75.
The Fifth Class, a rather numerous one, had no representative at the public examination. It would seem, however, that at a 'musical as well as at any other examination, every one ought to be requested to show how proficient he is. It might entail some tediousness on the examiners, but it would certainly be more satisfactory.
Guitar.—R. Curran deserved 100.
Clariondt.—C. Hodgson was noted 100.	•
In the Fourth Class of Flute, R. Hutchings obtained 90.
In the First Class of Cornet, Mr. C. Hutchings obtained 95. Charlie will make a very fine artist before many years.
There were many music students who were not examined, under the pretext that they did not take lessons during the year, but simply practiced to perfect their talent. Some of these are quite proficient, but as we limit ourselves to the examined students, we will not mention the others. We would only say that in future they shall have to render, like others, an account of the time spent in the Music Department, and shall "not be excused from the examination.
We would remark, in conlusion, that the Music Department, with its present dimensions, is not adequate to the demands, materially speaking. Although it disposes of some seventeen rooms, many pianos, violins brass instruments, etc., there is nevertheless a want greatly felt for a few years—that want refers to a band-room of larger dimensions than the present, and separated somewhat from the main music building. This large room would afford the Brass Band, which has now grown very numerous and efficient under the leadership of Rev. E. Lilly, S.S.C., a better accommodation, and would relieve the Musical Department from the loud noise of the brass instruments. This improvement would certainly be received with great satisfaction by Bros. Basil, Leopold, and other teachers who have given their lessons from morning till night amid the annoyance of noise. It would likewise afford a room for the teaching to all the music students in class,
the rudiments of music, and the principles and practice of the solfeggio, somethingwhich could not yet be satisfactorily taught for want of a proper room. The Orchestra could have therein its ’ rehearsals, thus avoiding the carrying of instruments from place to place, and rendering easy what is now disagreeable and difficult.
We hope to see the Music Department improv- " ing year after year, under its Director, Bro. Basil, S.S.C., assisted by the zealous Bro. Leopold, S.S.C., and Profs. Regnier and Van de Velde.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	’
First Catechism.—Masters E. DeGroot, 90; W. Dee, 95; P. Gall, 95; T. Nelson, 85; F. O’Brien, 0.
Second Catechism.—Masters M. Farnbaker, 0; J. Porter, 85; S. McMahon, 90; F. Huck, 90; D. Green, 85; E. McMahon, 90; C. Walsh, 80; G. Voelker, 60; J. Griffen, 70; C. Clark, 0; J. Twohig, 0; J. O’Meara. 60.
Third Catechism.—C. Green, 90; D. Salazar, 90;
J. Nelson, 90; E. Clearj-, 90; C.McKinnon, 90;
H. Porter, 90; F. O’Brien, 90.	’
First Grammar.—H. Faxon, 100; P. Gall, 100. A. Morton, 60; F. Huck, 100; Clarence Faxon, 100; M. Farnbaker, 0; E. DeGroot, 80; E. Raymond, 100; T. Nelson, 90; J. Porter, 0.
Second Grammar.—Masters S. McMahon, 100; C. Beck, 100; C. Walsh, 90; E. McMahon, 90; D. Green, 90; W. Hitchcock, 100; C. Stonehill, 80; A. Wetherbee, SO; G. Voelker, 90; C. Clark, 90; J. Nelson, 80; W. Dee, 100; J. Griffin, 90; F. O’Brien, 0.
First Geography.—Masters P. Gall, 100; M. Farnbaker, 0; Thomas Nelson, 100; E. DeGroot, 95; C. Clarke, 100.
Second Geography.—Masters H. Faxon, 100; A. Morton, 100; W. Dee, 95; F. Huck, 90; C. Beck, 0; J. Porter, 90; C. Walsh, 85; J. Griffen, 80; S. McMahon, 85; C. Stonehill, 85; W. Hitchcock, 50 ; D. Green, 70; A. Wetherbee, 70; F. O’Brien, 0; J. Nelson, 60.
First Arithmetic.—Masters P. Gall, 100; M. Farnbaker, 0; H. Faxon, 95; E. Raymond, 90; E. DeGroot, 60.
Second Arithmetic.—C. Walsh, 100; S. McMahon, 0; A. Morton, 80; T. Nelson, 85; W. Dee, 95; C. Beck, 100; C. Faxon, 80; F. Huck, 85; G. Voelker, 85; A. Wetherbee, 90.
Fourth Arithmetic.—0. Stonehill, 100; J. Twohig, 75; D. Salazar, 95; W. Hitchcock, 75; J. Griffen, 85; J. O’Meara, SO; C. Green, 80; J. Nelson, SO.
Fifth Arithmetic.—C. McKinnon, E. Cleary, H. Porter, C. O’Brien, each 100.
Fifth Reader.—E DeGroot, ICO; H. Faxon, 100; M. Farnbaker, 0; E. Raymond, 93; P. Gall, 100.
Fourth Reader.—A. Morton, 100; J. Porter, 0;
T. Nelson, 95; S. McMahon, 95; F. Huck, 95; C. Clark, 95; W. Dee, 95.
Third Reader.—A. Wetherbee, 95; C. Beck, 90;
C. Faxon, G. Voelker, C. Stouehill, F. O’Brien, J. Nelson, each 80.
Third Arithmetic.—J. Porter, 83; C. Clarke, 90;
E. McMahon, 75; D. Green, 90.
Second Reader.—ilasters Daniel Green, 95; D. Salazar, 95; J. Twohig, 80; E. McMahon, 75; C. Walsh, 89; J. Griffen, 90; W. Hitchcock, 80; C. Green, 80; J. O’Meara, 80.
First Reader.—Masters E. Cleary, 95; H. Porter 95; C. O’Brien, 75; C. McKinnon, 40.	"	’
First Orthography.—Masters C. Faxon, 100; E. DeGroot, 100; M Farnbaker, 0; P. Gall, ICO; H. Faxon, 100; T. Nelson, 100; J. Porter, 0; A. Morton, 100; W. Dee, 100; C. Clarke, ICO; E. Raymond, 100.
Second Orthography.—Masters D. Salazar, 80; S. McMahon, 70; C. Beck, 100; C. Walsh, SO; F. Huck, 100; E. McMahon, 60;’ G. Voelker, 100; C. Stonehill, 100; J. O’Meara, SO;_ J. Griffen, 60; W. Hitchcock, 100; F. O'Brien, 60; A. Wetherbee, 100; E. Cleary, 60; J. Nelson, 80; J. Twohig, 80; D. Green, 100.


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lyric pieces, in foreign or Greek measures; and the old Latin forms are laid aside.”*
And in speaking of Virgil and Horace, he says: “ It (poetry’) adapts itself more and more to the Greek; the old licenses of metre are altogether set aside, and the Greek being law in everything, it is a mere translating of the Greek: it is Grecian poetry in Latin words.”-)
Latin poetry a mere translation of the Greek! Thal beats Macaulay and Horace together, to say nothing of Simple Simon. It must then be that the Latin literature which we possess, even including the Secular Hymn, was altogether formed and polished after the Greek models; and yet it is a noble literature, and the Latin a noble language. Why then call the English, formed and beautified in a similar manner, why call it “ ignoble?” Echo answers, Why? and so does
Simple Sntox.
* Lectures on Roman History, Bohn’s Translation, Vol. Ill, p. 129.
t lb., p. 131.
Thespian Reunion.
The Thespian Society, perhaps more than any other, has always contributed to give a color—a flavor, so to speak—to life at Notre Dame. Other Societies may furnish more solid mental pabulum —may contribute to the development of the substantial,—the Thespians afford that which is more brilliantly phenomenal, and open to us the treasurehouse of those dear delusions that sweeten our path through this valley of tears. And the phenomenal is ever more attractive than the real. The meteor flashing athwart the star-gemmed sky draws off the attention of all from the contemplation of those empyrean orbs that have given lustre to the nocturnal firmament, ever since the time when this old world was new. Its evanescent splendors implant themselves in the memory— momentary elsewhere, there they are destined to exist forever.
Accordingly we find that the best known and best remembered sons of this our Alma Mater are those that have figured on the boards of Washington Hall and its antecedent stages. We suppose that Thespis must be regarded as the father of the Association; and no matter who may claim a secondary paternity, we should always remember e'est lepremier “Pa" gui coiite. Not that Thespis ever cost the Society much,—in fact, about as much as the Society ever cost Thespis, and we cannot prove that it ever cost him a single thought. We would not deny that those grand old classical fellows frequently took a peep into futurity, and were acquainted with America and its productions, for we find the potato mentioned by Homer (Book II, v. 313), and the hickory by Virgil (Eclogue 5, v. 3,—“Hie corylis, etc.") though disguised by a little poetic affectation. Snort not, gentle reader, —the gift of penetrating future events has indeed passed away, but can we reject these evidences of antique premonition? Accordingly, as we were remarking, Thespis must be regarded as the father of the Thespian Association.
Orators of delicacy and taste, we have had many. One gentleman, in particular, thought that before so mixed an audience it would comport with extreme propriety to allude to the various European nationalities as “ the mother countries.” Unfortunately, however, he was understood to say “ them other countries,” and so flagrant a grammatical error, occurring so frequently in the course of a brief but scintillating speech, was fatal, for several months, to his oratorical aspirations. But I digress. This gentleman was not a Thespian.
Returning to our subject, let us ask the archives of Notre Dame when and under what circumstances the Thespian Society of this place took its rise. We were never without our annual exhibi-
Wig-waggery.
Editor Scholastic: Simple Simon does not propose to enter into any match of scolding or recrimination; calling names is not his forte. Whether it is wig-wagging to discuss the very point at issue he hardly knows. The question in the present case he believes to be, Whether the English, a composite language, is a defiled and ignoble thing, or, on the contrary, a harmonious and noble vehicle of thought? If it be wig-waggery to insist on the latter, then Simon wig-wags. And • he feels gratified that his wig-waggery has prospered so well that the assailer of our noble speech has at last found himself constrained to style “ English Harmonious.” It was not perhaps to be expected that any but the most candid opponent would withdraw the “ ignoble.” Like Goldsmith’s village master,
“ E’en though vanquished, he can argue still.”
A new subject of discussion, in addition to the totally irrelevant German question, has been started concerning the correct translation of a certain passage in Horace. It has not been Simple Simon’s habit of life to twist words from their obvious meaning, still less to impute evil intentions to the most innocent actions, and he is very willing to let the most censorious of his “learned readers,” save one, decide whether
“ Nee minimum meruere decus ” means:
“ Nor is this their least honor."
If Simple Simon has missed the sense, it is veiy plain that his critic has not hit it; for certainly Horace does not here speak of all the Boman poets, nor even of all the dramatists, but only of those that have deserted the “ Greek footsteps.” And to the long-mooted question as to who killed cock robin, is now respectfully added this query: Who murdered Horatius Flaccus?
But it seems that Simple Simon is “ imposing upon his superficial readers;” let us therefore leave this hoodwinking Simon to his rascality, and see what the great critics have to say.
Macaulay, in his preface to the Lays of Ancient Rome, says: “ The Latin literature which has come down to us is of later date than the commencement of the Second Punic War, and consists almost exclusively of words fashioned on Greek models. The Latin metres, heroic, elegiac, lyric and dramatic, are of Greek origin. The best Latin epic poetry is the feeble echo of the Iliad and Odyssey’. The best Latin eclogues are imitations of Theocritus. The plan of the most finished didactic poem in the Latin tongue was taken from Hesiod. The Latin tragedies are bad copies of the masterpieces of Sophocles and Euripides. The Latin comedies are free translations from Demophilus, Menander and Apollodorus. The Latin philosophy was borrowed, without alteration, from the Portico and . the Academy; and the great Latin orators constantly proposed to themselves as patterns the speeches of Demosthenes and Lysias..........The victory of the foreign taste was decisive; and indeed we can hardly blame the Romans for turning away with contempt from the rude lays which had delighted their fathers, and giving their whole admiration to the immortal productions of Greece.”
This is pretty strong, much worse in fact than anything Simple Simon has said. But then this Macaulay was an ignoble Englishman, and of course prejudiced against the noble Romans. Give us an honest German criticism, and be done with it. Well here is one of the greatest names, if not the greatest, in German historical and critical literature:
Niebuhr, in speaking of the age of Lucretius and Catullus, says: “Poetry is now becoming inured to the strict rules of metrical forms; the greater • poems are composed in hexameters, the smaller
tion and festivities during the year, but the Thespians do not come before ns as an organized body until the paternal care of Rev. N. H. Gillespie formed them Into a regular association in the year 1861, or thereabouts. Nevertheless, in assuming this solidarity, they by no means intended to break their connection with their theatrical predecessors, and they claim, as Thespians, all who have ever taken part as principals in the regular entertainments given by the Senior Department of Notre Dame.
In the Catalogue of June 26,1861,—eleven years, to a day, ago,—we find the following under the head of societies:
DRAMATIC SOCIETY.
President—Rev. N. H. Gillespie.
Vice-Presidents—William Nowlan, John C. Lon-ergan, John Crowley.
Secretary—John H. Fleming.
Stage Managers—Francis C. Bigelow, Frank X Cottiu, John Schutt.
Treasurer— George Cottin.
In order to show how little there is “ in a name,” we give the titles of the sister Societies of the same date, with their present designations, or fate, appended :
Nocturnal Adoration Society (exists no longer). Holy Angels’ Sodality.
Sodality of the Archconfraternity.
Notre Dame Literary Society (St. Aloysius’ Philodemic).
Philo-Historic Society (absorbed subsequently by the St. Aloysius’).
Philopatri.in Society (St. Cecilia Pbilomatbean).
Among these the “ Dramatic Society ” aforesaid takes its rank after the “Philo-Historic;” and among so many changed names (for even those venerable immutables, the Holy Angels’and Arch-confraternity, have dropped the affix “Sodality”), our modern Thespians need not be surprised that the simple term “ Dramatic” was the only qualification of their first appearance in print as a corporate body. “Dramatic,” after all, is, if simple, a very comprehensive word.
The Catalogues of that early day did not give the Commencement programme. If our memory serves us faithfully, however, the play performed ' on that Wednesday evening, June 26th, 1861, was Sheridan’s brilliant comedy of the “Rivals,” with a cast of characters somewhat as follows: Bob Acres,..............ir.Orville T. Chamberlain
Sir Anthony Absolute,..........Anthony O’Malley
Captain Absolute,.....—.....   John H. Schutt Sir Lucius ©’Trigger...........John H. Fleming
• As to the “ brother" of “Lydia Languish,” let
us be mute. He wouldn’t like it.
In the Catalogue of 1862 we find, under the same title of “ Dramatic Society,” the following list of officers and members:
President—Rev. N. H. Gillespie, S.S.C. Vice-President—O. T. Chamberlain.
Secretary—Win. P. E. Cotter.
Stage Managers—J. H. Schutt, F. C. Bigelow. Treasurer— C. F. Butters.
MEMBERS.
A. O’Malley, J os. Healy, D. J. Spillard, J. Kelly, Juo. Armstrong, P. Talbot, A. Keenan.
Towards the Commencement Day of this year, arose Washington Hal), like the palace of Aladdin, (there has been many a lad in it since), from, the sandy desert of the Senior play-ground. The play was “Columbus,” in which the principal part was taken by Orville T. Chamberlain.
For the following year, we have not been able to procure a Catalogue; the play was “William Tell,” in which the hero was Mr. E. M. Brown, and the tyrant, Mr. (now Father) John McManus.
In 1864 appears the “Thespian Society” under its proper title. Whether it be its first appearance as such we cannot tell, for want of the Catalogue for 1863. The officers for 1861 are:
President—Rev. P. Dillon, SB.C.
Vice-President—J. Healy.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Secretary—T. A. Corcoran.
• Treasurer—E. AL Brown.
First Stage Manager—P. Talbot
Second Stage Manager—T. Knapp.
—Fifteen members.
The play being “ King Henty IV,” the cast of characters is too numerous for insertion. We refer those interested to the Catalogue in question, which may be found in the College library. Suffice it to say that the Falstaff of this occasion was Prof. M. T. Corby, who also took the principal part in the comedy of “ Rory O’AIore,” which followed.
Tn the Catalogue of 18G5 no mention is made of any dramatic society in the Senior Department, and if the St. Cecilia begins to bud forth, it is devoid of its formidable “ branches,” and appears simply as the Notre Dame Field Band. The programme of Commencement Exercises shows music and oratory, but no “ play.” The commentator of future ages will ask the “reason why.” Let us tell him in advance. Aly dear sir, Washington Hall, during the previous memorable scholastic year, was tilled with—BEDS!! I
Yes; that was the year of the great rush of students, and all the available room on the premises was pressed into service, until the new College was built
Nor did the following year see much improvement in dramatics. The St. Cecilians reopened Washington Hall, but no play from the Thespian Society graced the Commencement Day of 186G.
We now come down to “modern times,” and find in 1SG7 Mr. McNally the Director, and F. R. Stansell the “ star ” of the Thespian Society. Programme not in Catalogue.
In 1SG8 the Thespian Society again disappears from the Catalogue. The dramatic part of the Commencement Exercises is furnished by the St. Cecilians.
The “year of Silver Jubilee” finds the Thespians under the efficient direction of Prof. AI. T. Corby. Their play is “ Richelieu,” and the names of Ryan, Keeler, Moriarty, Rhodes, White and Morancy will long be remembered among the boys of that year.
Mr. F. X. Derrick at first undertook the Directorship of our Society in the following scholastic year, but the declining health, which resulted in the death of that lamented gentleman, causing him to relinquish his office after the first session, it passed again under the management of Prof. 31. T. Corby, who brought out “William Tell” at Commencement with a good cast of characters, J. R. Boyd taking the part of the Swiss patriot.
The presentation of “ Henry IV ” in 1871 is fresh in the minds of all. We are at the threshold of a new Commencement, and we find the same old Thespian Society, under one of their oldest members as Director, preparing not only to celebrate the glorious occasion as in days of yore, but also to rivet the tie that binds it to the past by establishing annual reunions to which it cordially invites all its old members—an ever-increasing list ■ as year after year goes by.
On the present occasion we are glad to see several of these old familiar faces and we should be glad to see many more. Here are Rev. E. B. Kilroy, A.M., 3Ir. John Fitzgibbon, A.AI., Rufus H. McCarty, A.B., Charley Hibben, Tom Dillon— representatives of distant epochs in Thespian history. Next year we hope that these proposed reunions will be better understood as an established annual custom here, and that all our old friends will meet on the Tuesday preceding Commencement Day, to keep up memories dear and refreshing to the hearts of all, of friendships formed before the cares of an active career had time to wither up the more poetic and graceful sentiments ' and affections.
Such is the object of these festive reunions, and this object, when attained, will be found in every way worthy of the slight inconveniences necessaiy to its achievement.	S.
||oTRE
Published every Week during Tenn Time, at NOTH® DAME ILNTVEBSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editors Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TEEMS: One year..........................$2	00
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students* Office.
AIany old students who had contemplated being present at the Commencement, finding it impossible, sent in their excuses.
Rev. E. B. Kilroy’s address to the Alumni was received with universal approbation by all those who heard it, whether Protestants or Catholics. It is published in the pages of this number.
The report which had been prepared of the Entertainment given on Tuesday evening, was accidentally lost, and the misfortune was not discovered till too late to have another prepared for this week. However, a full report will appear in next number.
AIany highly esteemed persons were present at the Annual Commencement, -whose names we would gladly have mentioned in the list of visitors had we been able to ascertain them, but in the hurry and excitement of the occasion we’ were unable to see all.
An earnest patron and advocate of education, a friend of college boys in particular, is Hon. A. C. Dodge of Iowa. To his name we may well add that of F. Quan, Esq., of Chicago, the munificent giver of the gold medal for .Elocution.
C.	Dodge, son of Hon. A C. Dodge, was the worthy recipient of the Elocution medal.
We regret that T. Watson, J. D. Smarr, C. H. Hodgson, and others did not obtain their Commercial diplomas. We regretted it the more so that they are quite worthy of it were they not somewhat deficient in penmanship. The strictness of the regulations governing the giving of diplomas does not prevent us from saying that they are well fitted for business, and will be (it is our honest belief) a credit to their employers and their Alma Mater.
We regret very much that a report of the Commencement Exercises at St. Alary’s Academy did not arrive in time for our present number, yet we cannot blame the reporter for wishing to take another week to prepare his description, for a more beautiful exhibition, we think, was never witnessed in any Academy than that given at St. Alary’s on the 2Gth and 27th insts., and a hurriedly written account of it would be unworthy of the occasion, and could not help failing to do even a remote degree of justice to the young ladies and their zealous instructors.
We were rejoiced amid the great labors of the Commencement, and especially after those of the year, to hear from the mouth of our much venerated Bishop that he felt proud of Notre Dame. That he has just reasons to feel so no one will question, for every one felt like the good Bishop on last Wednesday. Notre Dame with her power for good, her influence through a very large circle of friends, the love and respect her Alumni bear her, and her many students all over the land cherishing her memory, is indeed something to feel proud of Notre Dame too feels proud, proud of her Bishop, of the kind Pastor who knows so well how to encourage and cheer on the laborers of his flock.
A great number of letters were received by the Very Rev. President from distinguished individuals, expressing regret at not being able to attend the Annual Commencement. We publish the following from the excellent Governor of the State of Indiana, in which the University of Notre Dame is situated:
State of Indiana,	1
Executive Department,	L
.	Indianapolis, June 20, 1872. )
AV. Corby, S.S.C., President Notre Fame University, South Bend, Indiana:
Dear Sir: Please accept my grateful acknowledgments for your kind invitation to attend the “ Annual Commencement Exercises ” of the University of Notre Dame, to take place on the 26th instant, but I regret to say that my official duties will compel me to deny inyself the pleasure of accepting the invitation and being present and participate in the exercises of the occasion. Be pleased to express to those whom you represent my sincere thanks for the honor of the invitation and my deep regret at being unable to attend.
Wishing the University and its officers abundant success, I am
Respectfully, your obedient servant, Conrad Baker, Governor.
Ths ThiloEiathean. Standard.. ’
The final number of this valuable paper has made its appearance, and though there is indication of haste in its composition it is well worthy the enterprising young Editors. The number consists of fifty-six pages, and contains quite a number of well-written articles which we cannot enumerate in this notice. We learn with pleasure that the-Editors have determined upon publishing a Vacation number.
As an item of the times, we take from its local columns the members of the corps: J. F. McHugh, President, Editor-in-chief, also Local Editor; M. AI. Foote, Vice-President and General Editor; M. M. Alahoney, Secretary; C. Hutchings, Treasurer and Alusical Editor; Alessrs. D. J. and J. D. Hogan, C. Dodge, C. Berdeland S. Dum, complete the list.
Society Day, we were glad to see, was hailed with an honest welcome. It was not heralded long, —it made its appearance in a very noiseless way. Society Day is a name special to colleges, conse- ' crated by many a sport intellectual and physical. It means a good time for the societies in general, and a good time also for their patrons and guests. What was done Saturday afternoon from four o’clock to seven o’clock under the auspices and name of Society Day, was only part of what should have been done—of what we hope will really be done at some future time, but which the shortness of the preparation and the newness of the celebration did not permit this year. We would have liked to see all the societies in their college regalia, turning out in force, decorated with their proper badges and occupying reserved seats.
We look to the future, which will draw out what has been simply outlined, and make of Society Day one of the memorable days of college life. Such as it was this year, considered as a mere beginning, it was quite satisfactory, and its exercises reflected to the credit of nearly all who took part in them.
Tables of Honor.
senior department.
June 21.—J. D. AIcCormick, T. J. Dundon, T. A. Ireland, T. Fitzpatrick, J. B. Comer, F. P. Leffingwell, L. P. Godfroy, T. L. Watson, T. A. Phillips, EL Walker.	.
junior department.	'
June 21.—G. Gross, W. Meyer, H. Hunt, W. P.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Breen, H. Beckman, F. Arantz, P. P. O’Reilly, J. Shanks, A Schmidt, E. Roberts.
D.	A. 0., Sec.
The 2Sih Annual Commencement Exercises at Hotre Same University.
THE HORNING ENTERTAINMENT.
It is a very difficult thing to have an entertainment come off precisely on time. If those concerned in the different things which have to be done are not ready, there are a thousand and one things which interfere and cause delays. Wednesday morning’s exhibition followed the general rule. The Band, which always opens our entertainments, did not strike up until nine o’clock. The audience was not so large as the night before, because the majority of persons in the neighborhood are attracted more to the Hall when they know that the Thespians tread the boards, than at any other time; still there was a very large audience. Among the many persons assembled in the Hall were Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger of Fort Wayne; Rt. Rev. Dr. Borgess of Detroit; Rev. J. P. Carroll, Fremont, Ohio; Rev. Thomas Roy, Bourbonnais, Illinois; Rev. A. R. Sidley, Dima, Ohio; Rev. W. Cary, Dayton, Ohio; Rev. Hr. Howard, Galesburgh, Illinois; Rev. John R. Dinnen, Oxford, Indiana; Rev. E. B. Kilroy, St. Mary’s, Canada; Rev. E. McGuirk, Fox Lake, Wisconsin; Rev. Joseph Molefors, Chicago, Illinois; Rev. M. M. Hallinan, Lafayette, Indiana; Rev. J. Casey, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Rev. Mr. Eustace, Lockport,'Illinois; Rev. W. H. Sidley, Sidney, Ohio; Rev. M Oechtering, Laporte, Indiana; Rev F Demers, Lowell, Indiana; Rev J Bowels, Monmouth, Illinois; Rev M Hurley, Peoria, Illinois; Rev. D. O’Donovan, Brownsburg, Indiana; Rev. J. McNulty, Decorah, Iowa; Rev. B. Kroeger, Rennselaer, Indiana; Rev. John Fanning, Fair-burg, Illinois; Rev. P. H. Brown, Ravenna, Ohio ; Rev. Mr. Petit, Peru, Illinois; Rev. P. J. Cambell, Lacon, Illinois; Rev. J. V. Conlin, Cleveland, Ohio; Rev. J. P. Moloney, Cleveland, Ohio; Rev. A. Packamousky, Chicago, Illinois; Rev. D. D. Callaert, Marshall, Michigan; Rev. Father McAvoy, St. Louis, Missouri; Rev. T. Quigley, Danville,Illinois; Rev. Timothy Sullivan, Laporie, Indiana; Rev J Frere, S SC, Fort Wayne, Indiana; Hugh Campbell, Valparaiso, Indiana; J B Arnold, Jr South Bend, Indiana; N Rivard, Kankakee, Illinois; William J Moran, Fort Wayne, Indiana; A B Miller, South Bend Tribune; A F Bonebrake, South Bend; J J Joquel, Fort Wayne, Indiana; M H- Baker, South Bend Indiana; Simon Wile and lady, Laporte, Indiana; Mrs Kenzie, Chicago, Illinois; Janies Allen aid lady, Chicago, Illinois; Mrs Hug, Indianapolis, Indiana; Mr George Hug, Indianapolis, Indiana; Mr Hugo Hug, Indianapolis. Indiana; Samuel J Weldon, M D, Covington, Indiana; Judge Turner, South Bend, Indiana; E Sumption, Mishawaka, Indiana; J Studebaker, South Bend, Indiana; O B Maples, South Bend, Indiana, for the Chicago Tribune; M R Keegan, Chicago, Illinois; II Charais, Kentland, Indiana; George W Matthews, South Bend, Indiana; Dr C H Middleton, South Bend, Indiana; C A Hayward and Brother, South Bend, Indiana; E Beyerley and family, South Bend, Indiana; Daniel Kelly, Muskegon, Michegan; Mrs J J St Clair, Pitts-burgb, Pennsylvania; Mrs Owen Dougherty and daughter, Chicago, Illinois; J Warden, South Bend, Indiana; L G Welton Esq, South Bend, Indiana; D A Veasey, South Bend, Indiana; C Ortmayer, Chicago, Illinois; O H Palmer and lady, South Bend, Ind; Dr Ham South Bend, Ind. A TT Wheeler, South Bend, Indiana; G E Rose, South Bend, Indiana; Thad Taylor, South Bend, Indiana; Jacob Strayer, South Bend, Indiana; Mrs Carlin, Findley, Ohio; William C Layfield, Joliet, Hliuois; J O’Reilly, Cleveland, Ohio; A B Wade
E-q, South Bend, Indiana; William Howland, Elkhart,Indiana; RJ Stonehill, Laporte, Indiana; Nat Faxon, Chicago, Illinois; George Lucas, Newburgh, Ohio; James Lawton, Chicago, Rlinois; Nathaniel Wood, Lafayette, Indiana; Cyrus Smith, South Bend, Indiana; E D Hartman and lady, South Bend, Indiana; Fred Klein and lady, Cincinnati, Ohio; Harry Enneking, Cincinnati, Ohio; Daniel Healy, Chicago, Illinois; 0. T. Niles and lady, Mishawaka, Indiana; John McMichael and lady, Mishawaka, Indiana; Andy J. EcIIeston, South Bend, Indiana ; J. H. Quigg, Mishawaka, Indiana; T. H. Bulla, Elkhart, Indiana; J. Dor-ward, M.D., South Bend, Indiana; J. J. Fitzgibbon, Chicago, Illinois; Henry Bond, South Bend, Indiana; C. M. Heaton, Jr., South Bend, Indiana; Mrs. Wernert, Mr. Wernert and sister-in-law, Toledo, Ohio; Mrs. J. J. Ely, Rockford, Michigan; D. M. Coonley, South Bend, Indiana; Mrs. Dr. Johnson, Harvard, Illinois; John Harper’s family, South Bend, Indiana, John Foster, Attorney at Law, South Bend, Indiana; Andrew Anderson, South Bend, Indiana; J. Spillard, Elgin, Illinois; J. Peffer, Mishawaka, Indiana; B. Wall, South Bend, Indiana; T. J. Seixas, South Bend, Indiana; John Caren, Columbus, Ohio; Prof. Wilcox, South Bend, Indiana; W. F. Cushing, South Bend, Indiana; C. G. Dowling, Laporte, Indiana; P. L. Garity, Chicago, Illinois; T. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Mrs. Beck and sister, Chicago, Illinois; H. Van Tuyl, South Bend, Indiana; J. D. Osborn, South Bend Union; T. P. Bulla, South Bend, Indiana; John Drake, Willow Springs, Illinois; S. Gluckauf, Chicago, Illinois; John Murphy, Chicago, Illinois; J. O’Brien and lady, Chicago, Illinois; the three Misses Walsh, and W. Walsh, Chicago; Mr. McMahon, and lady, Miss N. McMahon, Chicago, Illinois; Mrs. Cox, Chicago; Mr.- Clary, Chicago, Illinois; Mr. Reid, Titusville, Pennsylvania; T. Shea and lady, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Mrs. O’Neill and daughter, Miss Kurt, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Hon A. C. Dodge and lady, Mr. A Dodge, Burlington, Iowa; Mrs. Foote, Mrs. Hunt, Burlington; Miss B. O’Neil, Peoria, Hlinois; Miss A. Radin, Chicago, Illinois; Miss H. Neil, St. Louis; Miss E. Kirwan, and Mrs. Redmond, of St. Mary’s; J. Conahan, Chicago; T. Duey, R. H. Duey, South Bend; M P Chapin, South Bend; A. T. Coquil-l.ird, South Bend; V. H. Hackmann, St. Louis; John Fletcher, St. Louis; C. K. Hibben, Chicago ; A. C. McClurg of S C Griggs <fc Co, Chicago; R. H McCarty, Ann Arbor; Mr Brady, of Chicago P Garrity and lady, Chicago; Mrs Quinlan, Cleveland, Ohio; ThomasTuberty, Lafayette, Indiana; J Brown, Dubuque, Iowa; W Dunn, Fort Wayne, Indiana; E D Van Amburgh, Mishawaka, Indiana; J Schutt; Elkhart, Indiana; P D Smith, South Bend, Indiana; A Clows, South Bend, Indiana; R Chestnutwood, South Bend, Indiana; A Beal; P O’Brien, South Bend, Indiana; P Harmon Peoria, Illinois; E Egbert, South Bend, Indiana; W Mack, A Klingel, G Wyman, D Renno, R Kehler, South Bend, Indiana; Gen. A C McClurg, Chicago, Ill. John Cochrane, Chicago, Illinois; J L Gaar, Richmond, Indiana; J Huck, Chicago, Illinois; Mrs Hogan, Chicago, Illinois; S McOsker, Elgin, Illinois ; the Misses Thompson, H. Miller and lady, South Bend, Indiana; J Desmond, Supt. M S & L S RR, Chicago, Illinois; W F Freeman, General Baggage Master L S & M S RR, Cleveland, Ohio; Mr Cleary, Chicago, Illinois; Mr McClure, Chicago, Illinois; W J Quan, Esq., Chicago, Illinois; W J Twohig, J V Clark, Esq., John Clark, T Nelson, J Graham, Chicago, Illinois; M O’Meara, Cincinnati, Ohio; Grover Webb, Peru, Indiana.
If the Band did not play good music we would say so—but Notre Dame never saw a better Band than she has had the high honor of possessing this year. Commencement Day, of course, gave more spirit to the individual members—consequently our old friends the bans did nobly—the second especially.
The orchestra caught up the good example set them by the band and did their best—their best, it is needless to say, is grand.
Master Edward S. DeGroot, on behalf of the Minim Department, read a very modest address in which he showed that the assumption of all honors by the Collegiate, Preparatory, Law, Medical. Scientificand Commercial Departments, was wholly unauthorized, and put in a protest against the same. Mr. Riopelle, our favorite singer, gave us “ Fairer far” (Afeyerbeer), and fairer singing we seldom hear. He was the happy recipient of numerous bouquets—one from the Gypsey.
C. Berdel, of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, rendered in excellent style “Callum Dhu.”
Mr. C. Berdel is one of the best deciaimers Notre Dame ever produced.
C. Dodge, who succeeded him, is not inferior to his St. Cecilia associate. His excellent reputation as a declaimer was ably sustained in the delivery of his address to Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger.
Mr. Mark Foote did credit to his well-known talent in his address, “ Liberty and Order.” Like bis companions of the St Cecilia Philomathean Association, he showed his good training, and merited likewise the applauses of the large audience.
Mr. John McHugh next delivered the “Junior Valedictory.” As some persons may not understand what a Junior Valedictory is, we will state that at Notre Dame there are three Department^ arranged as to discipline—the Minim, the Junior and the Senior. Mr. McHugh although a Senior in class is a Junior according to department; he is the first with Mr. Mahoney, who has gaduated from this Junior department; his address was well written, and better delivered.
The “ Gallop,” composed for the occasion by Prof. Van de Velde, was well rendered by the Orchestra. The “Gallop” shows considerable musical ability, and reflects great honor upon the composer. The “Anvil Chorus” by the Band was one of the musical treats of the morning. We have often spoken of the Band in terms of praise^ and they richly deserve all the praise that can be given them.
The play given bv the .Tnninrs wnq the '^TTpgtnrt^ remodelled from the French of Moliere. Not wishing to enter here into the criticism of a play which is considered a masterpiece, we content ourselves by saying that the actors entered with zest into the spirit of their parts, and kept the house in the best of humor, as was confirmed by the frequent roars of laughter. There are few plays better suited to the College stage and teaching a moral more appropriate to all times, without exhibiting anything low or unbecoming.
Mr. Berdel has become quite famous about Notre Dame as the Upstart, having personated the character a number of times here already. This morning he did full justice to the part. But there is too much buffoonery in it for an English audience. Mr. C. Dodge makes an excellent old man.. He rendered his part in capital style. Mr. D. J. Wile (Cleon), W. W. Dodge (Covielle), M. M. Foote (Dorante), B. F. Roberts (Dorimenes), J. McHugh (Signore Profnndo), S. Dnm (Signore Bassilio), C. Hutchings (Figaro), M. M. Mahoney (Nicholas), J. Devine, F. Egan, V. McKinnon, J. Campbell, 0. Waterman, W. Meyers, J. Shanks, • H. Hunt, W. Kelly, A. Filson, and others, filled their parts with great credit to themselves and to their instructor. The only objection we found with the acting is that they did not speak quite loud enough.
The valedictory of Mr. T. F. O’Mahony was the finest oration of the kind that has been delivered at Notre Dame for years. We could see no careful preparation in it, yet it was chaste, elegant and classical. No one but a young man of culture and learning and.natural genius could deliver such an oration. We should judge that this oration is
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
merely a specimen of what he can do. We feel confident that Mr. O’Mahony will attain an eminent position in life and reflect credit on Notre Dame.
The poem of Mr. Paul Broder, AM., poet of the Alumni, was just such an one as we should expect from the gentleman—witty, pointed, concise and thoroughly poetical. His subject was “ The Words we use.” He treated his subject after the manner of Pope, and threw much of Pope’s fire into it.
The trio by Prof Van de Velde, 0. A. B. Von Weller, and D. J. Wile, was played as artists alone can play. The music was of high order and splendidly executed.
The oration of the Alumni, Kev. E. B. Kilroy, AM., orator, was an excellent production. He said.-
Gentlemen of the Alumni:
When I received your honored invitation to address you at this Annual Commencement of our Alma Afater, I felt regret that the task was not intrusted to a more gifted associate. Still, I did not feel at liberty to decline, for X knew you bestowed the honor more for “ auld lang sync ” and “ auld acquaintance’ sake ” than in expectation of a brilliant essay, from one whose active life as a Catholic missioner for the past eighteen years might in a degree unfit him to appear before an intellectual audience such as greets us here to-day.
I feel happy to meet so many dear and warm friends of my early youth once more. I rejoice to see seated now before me two in particular with whom, twenty^ six long years ago, I shared “ College commons,” and began to think, speak and reason under the guidance of a Badin, Cointet, Granger, and the founder of this University, venerable Father-General Sorin. Every nook and corner around me is hallowed with pleasant recollections of those sunny days when, as College boys, our various prospects and intentions, like our secrets,—all plans and projects were common property,—those really happy days when, with hopefull hearts and buoyant frames, we counselled and advised each other as to the different courses we would pursue in the vast future that lay before us. It seems to me but yesterday, when, with a chosen band of classmates clustering round me,—more intimate than brothers,—we roamed these woods and dreamed of manhood’s greatness.
Did I not miss Professors Cointet, Gatian, Shawc, Backet, Jones, O’Leary, Girac, O’Mahony, Fathers James and Patrick Dillon—all now numbered with the dead—I could fancy myself here a boy again, free from the cares and turmoil of the busy outside world.
Stern reality rudely sweeps aside these tender musings, tells me to hurry forward with the task your partiality has imposed upon me,—and in obedience to its dictate, without further preface, I shall demonstrate to the best of my ability that material progress does not imply moral progress ; that, as educated men, a heavy responsibility rests upon us to meet the moral wants of our age. For
“ Lives of great men all remind ns We can make our lives sublime, And, departing, leave behind ns Footprints on the sands of time."’
Gentlemen of the Alumni,—we cannot ignore the fact that as educated men we have to think and act in the nineteenth century.
The position of our age as to material greatness is thus summed up by an eminent Canadian Bishop:
“ A century that has witnessed many and important events in the social, political and moral orders—a century in which revolutions and counter revolutions have swept over the face of the earth, destroying ancient and time-honored landmarks, abolishing institutions venerable in their antiquity, and rendered sacred by their associations, and not unfrequently shattering thrones into fragments and levelling the proudest monarchies in the dust. These revolutions have developed a corresponding change in the thoughts, the habits and political associations of peoples. And in the inductive and accurate sciences the greatest progress marks our age. By our railroads, steam and telegraphic communications, the most distant nations are brought into daily, hourly intercourse with each other. Thus thought is concentrated, and the material interests of the world are advanced. We point with pride to these important scientific results, as marking the energy and progress of the human mind. Nor are there want
utterly robs the marriage contract of its Christian character, and reverses the Divine decree, “ What God has joined together, let no man separate.” It offers a premium on conjugal infidelity, and by dissolving the family, saps the very foundation of Christian society. In many States of the Union, during the last thirty years, eleven per cent, of the marriages have resulted in divorce; that is, the divorces of a year are to the marriages as one to ten. This indiscriminate granting of divorce for trivial reasonsleads to a great crime that physicians tell us is now spreading among rich and poor like a plague. Suffice to say the American Social Science Association held a short time since its third annual meeting in Boston. The most interesting paper read, says the New York Tribune, was by Dr. Nathan Allan, of Lowell, Massachusetts, which read as follows:
“Examining the number of deaths, we find that there are absolutely more deaths than births among the strictly American children, so that, aside from enS iuration and births of children of foreign parentage, the population of Massachusetts is really decreasing. Another tact developed by reports is that whereas in 1705 nearly one hall the population of Massachusetts was underTifteen years of age, it is believed that at the present time not more than one fifth of the purely American population is under that age. The number of children in an equal number of lamilies of American and foreign birth will be nearly three times as great in the latter as in the former. The records of many towns will include six to eight generations. Examination shows that the families of the first generation had an average of eight to ten children ; ot the next three between seven and eight; the filth about five, and the sixth less than three to each family. Formerly larger families were common ; now they are rare. In some ot the old towns the records of a hundred years do not show a single married couple without children. The New York census of1805 shows that of 993 23G married women, 137,715 had no children, and 303.S9S had only one or two. In the small town of Billerica there are the records of ninety-six families of 10 or more children. Five of these had 14, and one, 21. The total in the 90 families is 1,043. The birth-rate shows the same fact that the American families do not increase at all, and inspection of the registration in the other States shows the same.
Here arc facts and figures.
The last evil—a fourth characteristic of the time—is the system of Godless Education. The working of this system is fast dechristianising modem society. It aims, it is true, at the cultivation of the intellect, but it leaves the will and heart a moral wilderness overgrown with rank and luxuriant weedsand noxious plants. Under the baneful influence of this Godless education, children are growing up without respect for parents, without veneration for old age, without obedience to civil or ecclesiastical authority. In fact, they are fast realizing the truth of the description given by St. Paul of those who, in his day, banished God from education. The Apostle says, in his Epistle to the Romans, i., 28, “ and as they liked not to have God in their knowledge, God delivered them up to a reprobate sense, to do those things which are not convenient ; proud, haughty inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, foolish, dissolute, without affection, without fidelity, without mercy.” Such an education is not progress—it is rather a retrogression or a return to pagan times.
If we are not yet convinced that a nation maybe great materially and yet far behind on the road that leads to heaven, we have only to look around us—even in this fair land—and see how the human heart belches forth its moral corruption, poisoning domestic and social joy. Let anyone attend our courts of justice and see how men will perjure themselves, let him read the catalogue of divorces, let him spend an evening in a grog shop, let him stop a moment at her door “ whose house is the way to hell,” let him enter one of our prisons, let him penetrate the secrets of his own heart until the light is let in, and he will learn.
Gentlemen, in conclusion, I have this to say—it rests with you, and the like of you, to accept what is^good and reject what is unchristian in the present age. Whether called to serve your country, in the pulpit, at the bar, in the legislative hall, or to wield the mighty pen, or in mercantile affairs, or agriculture, or as professors in the different arts and sciences, be men 1 Cultivate the whole man 1 the will! the heart 1 the affections 1 Never lose sight of the fact that the world where Christ is is your true home; that the evils of the day must be counteracted by truth, purity, faith, justice ; cultivate virtue and intelligence, for an abler hand than mine has written that the wreath of the bard may wither, the creations of the sculptor may moulder into dust, the throne of the conqueror may be shivered into atoms, the fame of the warrior may
ing equally important developments In the moral and religious worlds.”
Our lot has been cast amongst a people whose proud boast it-is that in this age of progress they are first among the foremost.
Still, gentlemen, we should not permit ourselves to be hurried along with the common herd who deem this material progress alone sufficient—for a moment’s reflection shows us that triumphs of mechanism and engineering, great and marvellous as they are, do not originate with the wants of the immortal soul—do not speak of its deathless destiny. They simply take their rise in earthly wants and minister to them. The uses they primarily serve are those of physical utility and commercial enterprise. The steam vessel that walks the waters like a thing of life ; the canal that unites far divided lakes or seas; the bridge that spans mighty rivers or dark impassable gorges; the steam engine that rushes us along with the speed of the wind, and the telegraph that flashes its messages of joy or sorrow over seas and continents, all these are the boast of the age, and yet they minister merely to our secular wants and interests. Unlike the triumphs of Catholic art in architecture, in sculpture, painting and music, they do not speak of our immortal destiny ; they do not lift our thoughts to the realms of eternity ; they do not give expression to the spiritual yearnings, the hopes and aspirations of the imperishable soul, nordo they mould its feelings of religious awe and worship—its sublime visions of infinity and eternity into embodied adoration, praise and love.
Hence a nation may have wealth, power, intelligence —excel iu the arts and sciences—in commerce, agriculture and mauafactures, and yet be steeped to the lips in corruption.
The tables of Guerrin, a celebrated French statistician, quoted by Allison, proves that in every department of France depravity is just in proportion to the extension of knowledge.
The same great essayist and historian assures us that so far as England is concerned every inciease of knowledge seems but an addition to the length of the lever by which vice dissolves the fabric of society. The essayist and historian Macaulay says: “It is true that in those things that concern this life and this world man constantly becomes wiser—progress in these things is the law of the human mind—but it is no less true that as respects God and a future state, the Christian of the 19th century is no wiser than the Christian of the 5lh.” With all our boasted improvements have we eradicated one evil passion or extinguished one guilty propensity of the human heart "i
Who so ignorant of human nature as not to see in the progressive society of the 19th century men of the stamp of Cain, Shemei, and Joab—ladies of the Jezebel pattern ? Go outside Israel—survey all nations—all ages—from the first to our own—and you will find men have had, and still have, naturally, the same moral character,—that the world even in this enlightened age needs just such a Gospel as was preached in Jerusalem, Rome and Corinth—needs to hear the thunders of the same law that issued from the smoke of Sinai and to see the vivid flashes that glared upon its summit.
If we take a close survey of the characteristics of modern civilization, we will be still borne out in our assertion that a nation may be powerful, intelligent and progressive in every branch of human science, and corrupt to the core—an apple of Sodom—a whited sepulchre. The characteristics of our age, apart from material progress, resolve themselves into Materialism, Indifferantism, Divorce from the matrimonial bond, and Godless Education.
Materialism is the first great evil of modern society —for it has begotten an unquenchable thirst for gold —the idolatry of wealth—the practical ignoring of a world beyond the tomb—the vain but persevering effort to make earth heaven and the home of our boundless aspirations and affections.
Indiffbkentjsm is the second. It is the fruitful parent of atheism and unbelief—believes, if it believes anything, that all laiths are equally good or equally bad—and is simply a negation of Christian faith and Christian duties. It has consequently lowered the moral standard of society, and the words “ expedient,” “ useful,” have usurped in the ethics of the nineteenth century the domain of conscience and right.
Next comes Divorce. Another unchristian characteristic of the age is the practice of divorce from the marriage tie. This moral leprosy is a foul blot on modern society, and corrupts it to the very core; it

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1
no longer be hymned by the recording minstrel, the hopes of the youth may be disappointed, but that which hallows the cottage, sheds glory around the palace—Virtue—shall never decay. It is celebrated by the angels of God; it is written on the pillars of heaven, and reflected down to earth. The hod-carrier who possesses it is more noble than the intriguing statesman. I would rather be in his place, I would rather have the “ inward glory” with which that poor man “is crowned,” than overshadow the world with my marshal banners. I would not exchange bis lot for the genius of a Raphael, the inspiration of a Byron, the eloquence of a Mirabean, or the intellect of a Bacon. I may be despised here, but if I possess it, then shall I tower above them all when tlieguilty shall tremble in their secret places as they behold the “ heavens roll together ” as a scroll.
On the conclusion of Rev. Father Kilroy’s oration, Rt. Rev. Dr. D wenger, of Fort Wayne, made an excellent oration on the connection between learning and religion. He was listened to with great attention, and on taking his seat he was greeted with rounds of applause. The premiums were then distributed, the degrees were conferred, and medals and honors awarded.
Altogether all the Exercises proceeded with great eclat. The order was excellent, and we feel sure that all at Notre Dame enjoyed themselves hugely.	A.
[A full list of the worthy recipients of Degrees, Honors, etc., will appear in the next number of the Scholastic ]
The 4-^^^ Mass.
Religiously and most appropriately the exercises of the scholastic year at Notre Dame begin and end with the celebration of holy Mass, and a sermon is usually preached by the Very Rev. President of the University. (May it ever be thus.) On Tuesday morning, at six o’clock, pontifical High Mass was sung by Rt. Rev. Dr. D wenger, Bishop of the diocese, assisted by Very Rev. Father Corby, S.S.C., as archpriest; Rev. Fathers Lemonnier, S.S.C., and Golovin, S.S.C., as deacons, and Rev. Fathers Toohey and Frere, S.S.C., as subdeacons. Rev. Mr. Bigelow, S.S.C., acted as master of ceroinenies. All the students and professors, many non-resident members of the Alumni, as well as many visitors were present.
The Holy Angels’ Sodality were in attendance in full numbers, and presented a fine appearance as they issued from the sacristy in snow-white cottas and red cassocks and took their places in the sanctuary.
Canniciari’s Mass was well rendered by the choir. Prof. Von Weller never sang better. A very appropriate sermon was preached by Very Rev. Father Corby, S.S.C., in which he took occasion to compliment the students for their most excellent deportment during the year.
The Benediction of the Rt. Rev. Bishop concluded the religious exercises of Alumni Day.
Eldredus.
Banquet of the Alumni.
The Annual Banquet of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame took place on Tuesday afternoon, at half-past one o’clock, in the Minim Hall of the University, which was neatly fitted up for the occasion. Among the guests were the Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne, Very Rev. Father General, and many other Rev. and lay gentlemen, with the reporters of the Chicago Tribune and Times and of ye Scholastic.
After partaking of all the good things so abundantly provided for the hungry and the thirsty, the Secretary, Prof. Ivers, opened “ the feast of reason and the flow of soul” by reading very pleasant letters from the following absent members: Messrs. T. Flannagan, T. B. Miller, O. T. Chamberlain, J.
A. O’Reilly, J. P. Lauth, C. N. Riopelle, T. A Corcoran, E. M. Brown, Rev. Martin Connolly, Rev. F. Bleckman, H. B. Keeler, W. T. Johnson and Rev. A. Messman.
The following toasts were then proposed and responded to:
“Alma Mater: As dear to our manhood as she was tender to our youth.”
Responded to by Mr. J. J. Fitzgibbon, of Chicago, who referred eloquently to the national reputation of his Alma Mater and to his own happy days spent in her halls, and closed by predicting the continued prosperity of the University. At the close of his remarks he was greeted enthusiastically by his old companions.
The second toast was
“ Our Country: the land of liberty without license; designed, as we trust, in the order of Divine Providence, to be the refuge of all the oppressed of the human race—the free home of a great and virtuous people.”
Responded to by Mr. Thomas Ewing, of Cleveland, Ohio, in a manner which showed that Notre Dame is about to give another lawyer of great promise to the Buckeye State. Mr. Ewing dwelt especially on the longing with which the dwellers in even the most favored nations look across the ocean to America, the true home of liberty, where, if anywhere, peace and happiness should come at last to man. Mr. Ewing was deservedly applauded at the close of his eloquent response.
The next toast was responded to by the Rt Rev. Bishop. It was as fallows:
“ Religion and Education, one and Inseparable: Forever blest are those who have devoted their lives to illustrate this truth—our Holy Father, the fearless teacher of a proud age, and his children the Hierarchy of the United States, including our own beloved Bishop, the fruits of whose labors we behold in so many schools of piety and learning, so many excellent books and periodicals, and so many zealous preachers of eternal truth.”
It is a pity that the eloquent and comprehensive response to this toast cannot be given as it was spoken. The Rt. Rev. Prelate went completely but briefly over the whole subject of modern education and its connection—too often lack of connection—with religion, declaring it to be the teaching of God Himself that religion is the true basis of all sound education. He referred to the miserable spectacle of so-called scientific men trying to explain the creation without a Creator, deducing even their own origin from one of the lower animals. The ignoring or weakening of the sacred character of the marriage bond he considered a sure mark of an irreligious and degenerate age. He spoke eloquently of the courage of the Holy Father in rebuking all the errors of modern times, whether committed by governments or by the people, in high or in low places, and gave it as his conviction that the Christian Church was again to be called upon to save human society from impending destruction. And he then referred with Christian exultation to the means which God had called up for the accomplishment of this end. Religious societies were covering the land with schools and churches where error was combatted with all the force of truth,—among these he placed the University of Notre Dame as one of the very first, and closed with a generous eulogy on the conductors of the University', and the noble Alumni who have gone out from its halls.
The last toast was
“ Our Society, the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, the hope and pride of their Alma Mater : Look ing over their long roll of honor, we are carried back to the very origin of the University and the days of auld lang syne. And as we read, smiles and tears alternately chase each other over our countenances, for some have walked in the sunlight of prosperity, while others have fallen early—too early, as would
seem to our weak vision—in the battle of life; but today all live beloved as boys again in our memories.”
This toast was drunk standing, and was then feelingly responded to by Rev. T. Sullivan, of Laporte. He spoke of the ties of love that lead us back to our country, our friends, our youth, and to the scenes where our minds were first opened to the beauties and delights of knowledge and virtues He recalled the feelings with which he had looked upon the most beautiful landscapes of Europe, while memories of his boyhood at Notre Dame made it seem that no foreign scenery could be more beautiful than that which was presented in our own land. The lakes of Switzerland were not more lovely than those of Notre Dame. Father Sullivan then took up a sadder theme, the memory of the absent, of those who can never more join in our happy reunions, tenderly calling up the saintly character of Philip Carroll, the kind-hearted musician, Prof. Girac, the devoted Father Flynn, the studious John Collins, the brave John Lonergan, and the high-minded Joseph Healy. The speaker then closed with some happy references to the pleasures attendant upon these annual reunions.
After the toasts and responses, the Association adjourned from the banquet hall to the faculty room, where the annual business meeting took place, the President, Very Rev. TV. Corby, in the chair. After the reading and adoption of the minutes of the last annual meeting, and also of the several meetings of the local standing committee, the treasurer’s report was read by Prof Lyons, and showed a satisfactory balance in the treasury.
The President finding it necessary to be absent from the remainder of the meeting, here called Vice-President Broder to the chair, when the election of officers took place, resulting as follows: President, Rev. E. B. Kilroy, St. Mary’s, Canada; First Vice-President, Prof. Paul Broder, Beloit, Wisconsin; Second Vice-President, Prof W. Ivers, Notre Dame; Secretary, Prof. D. A Clarke, Columbus, Ohio; Treasurer, Prof. T. E. Howard, Notre Dame; Orator, J. J. Fitzgibbon, Esq., Chicago; Alternate, Rev. J. A. O’Connell, Notre Dame; Poet; Rev. M. B. Brown, Notre Dame; Alternate, Rev. T. Sullivan, Laporte. Rev. TV. O’Rourke was then admitted to membership.
A resolution was then offered by Rev. N. H. Gillespie, and adopted by the Association, that for the future, until otherwise ordered by the Association, all fees, except the initiation of ten dollars, be abolished. After a hearty vote of thanks to the retiring officers, the Association adjourned to meet again on the Tuesday next preceding the Annual ■ Commencement, June, 1873.	R.
Society Day.
A public entertainment was given by all the Societies of the College, on Saturday, June 22nd. All the Societies, literary, religious and dramatic, took part in the exercises, and rendered them the most pleasing we have witnessed for many a day. The shortness of the time given to those who represented the various societies prevented them from making the entertainment as grand as it would otherwise have been. Under the eirenm-stances, however, they all did well.
Quite a number of visitors were present, among whom might be mentioned ex-Senator Dodge, of Iowa; Mr. Graham, of Ohio; Mrs. Hunt, Mrs. Dodge, Mrs. Foote, of Burlington, Iowa, and others.
The exercises began at four o’clock and lasted until half-past six. The first Society represented . was the Archconfraternity, Mr. John Shannahan appearing for them. Mr. Shannahan is a very pleasing writer and handled his subject with great skill. With a little more elocutionary training he would, however, appear with greater advantage. Henry TV. Walker, as the representative of the
t'
1
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Thespians, declaimed the soliloquy of Eaustus, from the tragedy of that name, by old Cris Marlow. We are glad to see our young men reading up the dramatic literature of the age of Elizabeth. They know that Shakspeare was not the only great dramatist of that glorious age. Mr. Carr represented, in very good style, the St. Aloysius Philo-demic Society. His address was quite able; but we would advise him never again with slippers on his feet to address an audience. Mr. J. D. McCormick, of the St. Edward’s Literary Society, treated the audience to a well-written poem. The young gentleman possesses much of the poetic fire. Mr. D. J. Bogan was the representative of the United Scientific Association. * As the time given him to prepare his essay was short, it would have been better for him to have read instead of declaiming it.
The speech of Mr. D. J. Wile, of the St. Cecilia Philomalhean Association, was well delivered, and showed marks of great preparation. Mr. William Dodge, of the same Society, made an excellent declamation. We know of no member of the Phil-omatheans who excels him.
The Sodality of the Holy Angels was represented by their Vice-President, Master Herbert H. Hunt, who read a short and appropriate address. Master J. Langenderfer, of the Philopatrian Association, declaimed “The Charge of the Black Brigade ” with animation and considerable talent. The selection by Mr. Bumside, of the same Society, was not animated enough for a declamation, but was very well rendered.
Master Harry Faxon, of the Thespian Cadets, treated the audience to a metaphysical treatise on tragedy. Mr. Peter Gall appeared to advantage as the spokesman of the Sodality of the Holy Childhood.
Mr. E. B. Gambee, of the Editorial Corps of the “Philodemic Owl,” gave a pleasing speech on College papers. Both the matter and style of this speech were good.
Mr. M. M. Mahony of the “ Philomathean Standard,” made quite a lengthy and able speech on the Press.
The music at the entertainment was of a higher order than we are always treated to on occasions of this kind. The solo by Mr. G. L. Riopelle was well rendered. Mr. Riopelle is improving both in voice and style. The trio by Prof. Van de Velde, C. A. B. Von Weller, and D. J. Wile, was one of the events of the day’s entertainment.
The chorus from “Judas Maccabeus,” as rendered by the Philharmonics, we should like to hear oftener. To say that the band played well would be merely to repeat what everybody always says of it. The Orchestra, we are glad to see, is now fully reorganized. They gave us three ocertures in an admirable manner. It is all folly to say that the audience do not appreciate fully the music of the orchestra. Cannot every one see the marked difference in the expressions of the faces of “ our boys ?” The more of such music we have, the better, for both the performers and for the students.
At the conclusion of the exercises, ex-Senator Dodge, of Iowa, addressed the students. He paid a high compliment to Notre Dame, and urged the students to persevere manfully in their studies; never to falter or flag in their endeavors, but with brave hearts and hard work to pursue their ways to distinction and renown.
When Mr. Dodge had concluded his remarks, which were received with loud cheers, the audience retired.	X
Notre Dame, Ixd., June 25,1872.
Mr. Editor : The time is almost past for the different societies to send in their semi-annual report; ours would have been sent in sooner, but since the race for championship ends our exercises for the year, we delayed sending in our report until after that occasion.
The contending crews, as you were informed in a previous report, consisted of the following named gentlemen:
chew of the rrsTA.
Captain—P. J. O'Connell.
Stroke, oar—3L H. Keeley.
Second oar—T. J. Dundon.
Third oar—P. J. O'Connell.
Bow oar—B. W. Drake.
Coxswain—G. L. Riopelle.
CREW OF THE SANTA MARIA.
Captain—J. M. Bourke.
Stroke oar—J. M. Rourke.
Second oar—D. E. Maloney.
Third oar—E. Graves.
Bote oar—N. S. Mitchell.
Coxswain—J. M. McAllister.
The race commenced at about 4h. 22min. 52sec. in the afternoon, and the two lengths of the lake were made in four minutes by the crew of the Pinta, which was decided winner by the following named gentlemen who acted as referees on the occasion: Rev. A. Lemonnier, Hon. A. C. Dodge, Messrs. P. L. Garrity, M. Brady and Thomas Shea.
Our much-loved Director, Rev. A. Lemonnier, having procured badges beforehand, both for the club and for the victorious crew, the following named ladies kindly consented not onljT to honor us with their presence at the race, but also to act as a committee in the disposal of the badges, viz.: Mrs. Hon. A. C. Dodge, Mrs. Hunt, Mrs. Johnson, Mrs. P. L. Garrity and Mrs. Kinzie. Their kindness and condescension shall ever be remembered by the Boating Club of '71 and '72, which takes this means of publicly thanking them for the services which they have rendered to the crew on the present occasion.
Quite a large number of visitors witnessed the race, and judging by our own observations they were very well satisfied with the exertions of the two crews in contributing to the Commencement Exercises. If our time were more extended we might hope to send you in a more extensive report, and one that would be more worthy of the occasion and of those who kindly contributed to make the scene immensely more interesting than it would have been otherwise.
Yours, respectfully, J. D. McC., Bec. Sec.
JAMES M. HOWARD, [Class of 1862,] ATTOKXET AT LAW, LOGANSPORT, - . INDIANA.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
RAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING
Leave South Bend 11 30 a. m. "	12 53 p. m.
♦t	“	9.18 p. ni.
«<	“	1235 a. in.
U “	S.50p. m.
EAST.
Arrive at Buffalo 4.25 a.m “	M	4 30 a. m
“	“	2 00 p. n»
“	“	5 25 p. m
“	“	6.50	p.m
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 30 p. m. “	315 a. ni.
“	M	4.40 a.	iu.
“	“	528 p	m.
“	“	6.35 a.	m.
WEST. Arrive at Chicago 8.00 p. m
*•	**	6.50	a.	m
“	“	7.25	a.	m
“	**	10.00	p.	m
-	“	10.30	a.	m
Making connection vvith all trains West and North.
for full details, see the Company's posters and time tables at rhe depot and other public places.
Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
J. H. DEVEKEUX general Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland.
C. P. Lelanp, Auditor.Cleveland, Ohio.
Jno. I)£bMo^D, tup’t Western Division, Chicago, HL J. W. Cary, General Ticket Agent Cleveland, Ohio.
C. Mouse, General Passenger Agent, Chicago, Illinois.
E. C. Oviatt. ’1 icket Agent, South Bend.
A. J. White, freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafayette and Louisville.
Goixg North—Express passenger, 609 p. m.; 8.5S a.
5/19 a. m. Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
Gqisg South—Expiess passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a. m.;
9.25 p. m. Freights. 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a. in.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
OLD, RELIABLE AAD POPULAR ROUTE.
Chicago, Alton & St. Louis Line.
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS ROAD IN THE WEST.
(See Classification of Railways by Board of Railway Commissioners.)
The Shortest, Best and Quickest Route
FROM
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS,
"Witliovit Change of Cars.
flyRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, CEP near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
arrive.
*8:00 p.m,
*4:30 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
St. Lonis and Springfield Express, via Main Line	*9:15 a.m.
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, 111., and Louisiana, Mo.	*9:15	a.m.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington
Express (Western Division) *9:15 a.m.
Joliet Accommodation,	*4:10	p.m.
St. Louis and Springfield Night
Express, via Main Line,	16:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
St. Louis and Sprinafield Lightning
Express, via Main Line, and
also via Jacksonville Division *9:00 p.m. |7:15 a.m.
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-
vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo. £9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only.
+ Except Saturday. S Daily. § Except Monday.
The onlv road running 3 Express Trains to SL Louis daily, and’a Saturday Night Train.
Time; only 11 Sours*
The only Line running Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars between Chicago aud St. Louis.
Close Connections in St. Louis for all points in Missouri, Kansas, Colorado and California. The Direct Route and the only all rail route to Memphis, Vicksburg, Mobile, New Orleans, and all points South.
Avoid a long Steamboat Transfer of Tweney-Five Miles, and changes of Cars by taking this Route.
Pullman Palace Cars run ou this Route only from Chicago to New Orleans, with but one change.
- Louisiana, Mo., New Short Route, Chicago to Kansas City via Chicago & Alton and North Missouri Railroads, passing through Bloomington and Jacksonville, 111., and crossing the Mississippi at Louisiana, Mo.
The best Short Route, from Chicago to Kansas City without change of Cars.
Close Connections in Union Depot, Kansas City, with all Western Roads for Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico and California, and in Chicago with trains of all Eastern roads.
Eletrant Day Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars run through from Chicago to St. Louis and Chicago to Kansas City
WITHOUT CHANGE.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
The onlv Line running these Cars between Chicago and St. Louis,’and Chicago and Kansas City.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN.
Gen’IPass. and Ticket Atrenf, Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
PEOSTLVAiM A CITRAL
DOUBLE TBAOK BAILBOAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New York unthout Change.
Direct Route to Baltimore and Washington City.
ON and after June 1,1871. the 9 p.m. train from Chicago arrives in New York at H.hO a n>. the second day, hour in advance of any other route ; with corresponding reduction to Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington. Leaves Chicago daily except Saturdays and Suudajs.
The 515 p.m train from Chicago arrives in New York at 6 41 am. the second morning,!^ hour in advance of any other Une. Ihis train has an elegant Silver Palace Car renning through between Chicago, Philadelphia and hew York without change.
The 9 a.m. train from Chicago daily (except Sunday), with Pullman Palace Cars attached. 9 hrough between Chicago and New’ York, without change, ty* hours in advance of any other route, and in time to make connection for Boston. No other Line offers this andvantage.
Trains from Chicago to Clev eland ria Crestline and “Bee ” Line, connecting avCleveland with trains on the Lake Shore Railroad for all points reached by that route.
Connections made at Crestline for Columbus, and at Mansfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
Passage and Sleeping-Car Tickets can be purchased at the Company’s Office. 65 Clark Street, and at the Passenger Depot, corner Madison and Canal Streets, Chicago.
THOMAS L. SCOTT, President.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Ass’t Sup’t, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia F. R. MYERS, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Pittsburgh, W. C. CLELAND, Ass’t Gen’l pass. Ag’t, Chicago.
