Betrnted ta ths interests nf th# Staxl#nt&
‘‘JLAJBOIt OMNIA VIIKCIT.”
Volume III.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 28, 1870.
Number 19.
[For the Notre Dame Scholastic.]
mixed Schools.
Secluded in one sense as is the true student, whilst engaged in his scholastic course, he cannot ignore the fact that the time is not far distant when he must understand and grapple with the vexed questions of the day. He must take sides for or against the innovations or proposed improvements of the age.
Neutral men are men without character, and there is indeed no safe neutral ground on any important moral question, for moral questions involve momentous interests. Justice and iniquity are arrayed against each other, and it is of the first importance that we cast our influence on the right side. Good people may be deceived sometimes respecting right and wrong of momentous problems, but there is, strictly speaking, only one side true. The other must of necessity be false. Latitudinarianism, that doctrine which leaves the young mind to guess at what is right or wrong, good or evil, because it can present no just standard; latitudinarianism, which constantly inculcates the principle that it makes but small difference whether one embraces truth or error, is the doctrine of moral cowardice. It is the mask of open error: the ever repeated echo of that seductive, flattering voice, which drove mankind from the Garden of Eden.
Whilst engaged with the intricacies of science, the preoccupied mind of the student can of course give no great amount of attention to these discussions, which are nevertheless going far towards deciding the future character of our nation ; but thanks to the living mercy of heaven, nothing marks the grandeur of truth as plainly, as its simplicity. Let the “ vexed questions ” of the day be presented clearly, with the verbiage and technicalities accumulated by discussion quite removed, and an upright moral sense will readily detect that side upon which posterity will pass the verdict responsive to divine approval. A sincere lover of justice will soon find the truth.
Among questions now before the thinking public, that of mixed schools ranks high in the estimation of the conscientious educator, for it involves the future wretchedness or happiness of a vast number of our population. By mixed schools we mean those institutions where pupils of both sexes are free to enter.
To a thoughtful parent, who has the advantage of his children sincerely at heart, that institution is most to be prized which the most perfectly protects pupils against absorbing diversions from their studies, and which at the same time most effectually arms them to resist the tyranny of their own sensual appetites and passions. The skill of the preceptor is scarcely of equal importance, since he is wasting breath, time and energy upon youth whose hearts are far away from the sciences which he attempts to explain. A professor of inferior attainments can accomplish results much more satisfactory than the first, provided he be able to enlist the cordial co operation of his
young charge. The mixed school is little less than a “ courting establishment,” to which boys and girls repair, not in truth to become expert in science and art, except perhaps it be the doubtful science of flirtation, and the soul degrading art dress. Alas! what parent would condemn a child to this alternative. Better a thousand times that he be an intellectual dolt! Why are the vaunted public schools so inadequate to the demands of the prudent parent? Ah! the experiment has been too often tried ! If in fact, a smattering of grammar, arithmetic, algebra, &c., be obtained, it is not long before the bright girl of ten or twelve years develops into the sentimental love sick creature, who will compute nothing but the number of her “ conquests" and the list of her fine dresses. If indeed a little book keeping and trigonometry are learned, the active lad of fifteen or sixteen, too soon is transformed into the insipid, effeminate fop, whose most profound knowledge of trigonometry is applied to the make of his neck-ties, and the fit of his boots, and whose chief book-keeping is accomplished by the purchase of immoral trash, which he reads with the most shameless avidity.
Why are business men so at a loss to find trustworthy young clerks ? Because most of the boys have been taught in mixed schools, and are completely dissipated. The money-drawer is not safe when a “ hop” is to come off, because the aspiring beau must not be short of money. To be detected by “an old fogy” like his employer would be nothing in comparison with losing the pleasure of captivating some little upstart whose wonderful crimped hair outweighs her brains ten times over, and whose shoe-buckles are a thousand times more brilliant than her intellect and yet this same upstart of a girl, and this fop of a boy, are not half so much to blame as their parents or guardians.
To attract the admiration of the opposite sex is naturally the strongest ambition of adolescence. There are exceptions to this rule, but rare indeed, especially where the individuals are possessed of personal attractions, and have once experienced the homage, the unassured enthusiastic regard, accorded by young people to each other, under the circumstances presupposed: that is, where attractions are recognized, and ambition to be admired has been aroused.
We have no disposition to ridicule or underrate the dignity of that mutual esteem paid by one sex to the other. We will not even designate that devotion of young hearts to kindred hearts so common in the world, by the derogatory title of “puppy love,” although we must admit that in the large majority of cases it deserves no better. We wish rather to support that dignity by giving boys and girls sufficient opportunity to become ladies and gentlemen; fit companions for reasonable creatures. We would do this by permitting them time to render themselves scholars. We would not allow them to meet every day, and every hour of the day, in study, class, at table, at chapel (?) in short at every corner. Who would expect good-looking children not to think more
of meeting each other’s pretty faces than of meeting their tutor? We would prevent their committing themselves to a frivolous life, utterly devoid of thought, principle, or religion, by anticipating the future, and by imparting a sound education before allowing them to be entangled in the interests of society, but throw the two sexes together in school, and mental cultivation is the last thing thought of. Sound discipline of mind, yields to superficial display, and fortunate the parent who has not to mourn matrimonial alliances contracted by the foolish victims of their foolhardy confidence in the good judgment of their children; not to speak of worse results.
There may be rare instances in which even in mixed schools, young ladies and gentlemen have acquired sound learning, but we have none to cite and believe them so exceedingly uncommon that one would go along distance without meeting them.
The modern sentimental and affected stickler for the advantages of the mixed-school system, proves in his position one of two points; either that he is totally inexperienced in the matter, or that the kind of education which he advocates is that from which a Christian heart would recoil with horror, The Christian parent is the proper judge. The wretched sensualist may indeed be willing to see his own children grow up mere animals, with no higher aspiration than that of becoming fascinating beaux or belles. Not so with the Christian parent. He recognizes the weeds in the human heart, and knows full well that their growth is always more rapid than that of the flowers. He is taught by Divine Revelation what to expect from human nature, and will not expose his child to danger. This good sense which is growing every day more common in society, is filling our Religious boarding-schools all over the land. There must be seclusion for earnest study, and scarcely anywhere else is this seclusion afforded. The writer not long since met an intelligent Methodist who is educating his children at Catholic Institutions, and before a large company this gentleman openly declared that he would send his sons and daughters to no other schools, because in “ all others they were exposed to the distractionsand dissipations of society, and could not keep their minds on their books.” Mixed schools—(worthy offspring of such luminous brains as those of the notorious Fanny Wright and Robert Dale Owen)—have done their fearful work in our midst, and prudent parents and guardians, as well as many statesmen, are opening their eyes to the only remedy—that of the time-honored remedy of separate schools for young ladies and gentlemen, which recommends itself to every mind of wisdom and experience. The cultivated classes of society will no longer be imposed upon, and will not fail to discountenance the immoral and pestilential influence of modern mixed schools.	A Mother.
Every young couple who desire to make a good start in life must keep two bears in the house and feed them well, bear and forbear.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Far the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
O! would that I had Wings.
O, would that I had wings? The rich winds trill, lake joy made subtle, netve and soul to thrill The eay glad breath of spring-tide o’er the mead, Soars like a sia-bound soul, tuts moment freed; My heart more buoyant than you floating bird, By a new sense, a kindling fire is stirred.
I love the earth so graceful, and so fair, Its fresh grass springing, and its ambient air. I love this rosy mist, this laughing gleam. That showers with gems, the liberated stream. I love those tender trees that bend sublime. To mourn in grandeur o'er earth's blasted prime. But 0,1 long for wings! 1 fain would fl)’. To see that clime where beauty cannot die 1 I long to breathe the air of changdtss locet That like the sunshine fills the home above.
I long to tread the labyrinths of light. Beyond the realms ofsnadow, and of blight. Oh would that I had wi. gs! O would my soul Could taste unmingkd, heaven's divine control 1 And yet thongh thus I long though in my heart Hope seems fullfi.dged to fain with joy depart, I know 'tis tutelage oi ai gel might. To nerve my soul for destined, final flight: ’Tis impulse, heaven-impar ed; yearning sweet: A blissful hungering for the angel's meat. But ah 1 the trembling bird with plumage frail To stem the tide of Summer's softest gale, With clinging clasping feet, and wings half grown, Poised on the nest whose high yet narrow zone Must compass long her still untutored powers. Full oft must fall amid her trial hours;
Full oft grow weary, oft must take repose And in her nest-home, oft her pinions close, And happy deem herself, if daring proud, To fearless flignt, on towards the golden cloud, She be not overworn, and wayward stray From sheltering nest, and safety far away; O happy she if gazing upward still, She shun the magic of the tempter's skill.
Then will I fold within my breast, Th’s buoyant impu'se. there in peace to rest, And gathering strength 'mid storm and fretting rain, Thank God whose mercy doth my soul restrain, Nor longer yearn for wings or sunward flight, But bow glad prisoner ’neath the Altar's light, For breeze and bird, and misty azure air, Are sweet alone, because our Lord is there. Our Love Incarnate, our dear Crucified, 'Tie He who spread this beauty far and wide; All bhss, all tondvr joy of earth and sea, Are gifts made sacred by His love for me, But sweeter joy than all these joys is mine. That for His sake I may al! joys resign. And thus may I with wings of sacrifice, Be a blest denizen of upper skies, Nor falcon wings, nor pinions free and strong Of mountain eagle, nur the sky lark's song, Be half so buoyant on the shimmering air, As I, a soul absolved, at rest in prayer.
An Old Contbibutob.
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
Visit to the Planet Saturn.
How wildly bright are the vision, that flit across the youthful brain! They are like meteors flashing on the brow of night, when her robe of darkness is gemmed with stars.
I am old now. My head is white with care, and time has pressed his fingers on my brow. The snows of many years have melted on the graves of those I love, and in the words of Ossian I may say, “ I look into the times of old; but they seem dim to my eyes, like reflected moonbeams on a distant lake.” Thon, my child, art the only beam that gladdens the sunset of my days. Listen, then, while I tell thee a dream, a sweet, sad dream, that lies in the mist of years.
The day had been one of Autumn’s brightest, and I had begged and obtained my father’s permission to remain on the observatory until the stars had reached their midnight course. Not acquainting my brother with my design—lest his gayety might disturb my solitary musings,—I absented myself from the family circle under the plea of letter-writing (which was no falsehood,
for I wrote a short note to a friend) and hastened to my destination. I reached the observatory just as the veil of twilight was falling from the brow of night; seating myself at the telescope I watched the stars in their silent course.
Hour followed hour, and still in voiceless beauty they passed from my view. At last beautiful Lyra arose from the dreamy east: her soft light entered my soul; for I have ever likened this sweet star to the chaste St. Cecilia, whose heroic sufferings chant endless praises to our Lord. Ah! how near to God and His saints these mute messengers of love should draw our souls! From pole to pole there is not a star but mirrors some varied thought of God’s enduring love! Lyra glided into the waiting west, and a flood of mellowed radiance came o’er my upturned gaze, as glory-crowned Saturn appeared. How long he bathed my waking eyes in light I know not. Strange longings took possession of my soul. I wished for the wings of morning, that space might divide us no more. A hand was laid upon my head. I started, and, lo! an angel stood before me. With his hand still resting on my head, and regarding me with the deepest, ten-derest love, he said: “Child of earth, why feed thy soul on idle dreams when so much to mortals hath been given ? Is not a God all thine sufficient ? Nay, tremble not, I am thy heavenly guide: know, thou art favored above all other mortals; for God wishes entirely to possess thy heart, and I, commanded from on high, will bear thee through the realms of space.”
So saying, he encircled me with one angelic arm. Swiftly we ascended through mists, and soon Earth lay a gleaming planet far beneath. Then Luna seemed another Earth, with flowing streams, shadowy lakes, andstern-browed mountains dark ly looming in the hazy light. Up, up we moved. New beauties burst upon my raptured view, wreaths of dazzling stars encircled us; lonely Mars we passed unheeded by, and for a moment, I saw not, blinded by the brightness of proud Jupiter; but soon he too merged into a brilliant speck of borrowed light, and the chastened splendor of Satui n encompassed us about.
Then pausing in space my angel said: “ Child of earth, behold how distant thou art, and tell me if thou fearest?”
“Fear, with thee for my guide, and God for my support!”
“Thy dream is then fulfilled; we now descend to speak with beings of a sinless sphere. Behold an Eden undefiled.” I looked down, and beheld a scene of indescribable loveliness. My soul was now lost in unconsciousness, and when she awoke to life again I was reposing on the brink of a lake of fairy glory; the terraces which arose behind me, the eight moons, the rings of brightness which encircle the planet, were all reflected in its waters that seemed but a veil of gauze separating two semi-spheres of enchanting beauty; while o’er the sleeping waters came soft, low murmuis, as of ajolian harps when kissed by passing winds. For a few moments these gentle strains rippled on my ear, and then a vision of strange beauty greeted my wildered view.
Twelve swan-like golden boats swere gliding o’er the polished mirror; in each were two lovely maidens guiding the silver oars, which arose in unison with the harmonious cadences of a third, whose fingers swept the chords of a gilded lyre This magic flotilla approached in the form of a crescent, in the center of which was a larger but similar barge, in which six maidens clustered around a seventh of rare beauty, like a diamond in the midst of pearls. As they neared, their raptured voices rose in a burst of angelic melody, of which I could then distinguish the words;
but their memory has passed away on the wings of time. As the last note was trembling on the breeze, they touched the flower studded shore. The queen advanced, clad in a robe of woven emerald, gemmed with dew; her hair, escaping from a single confining star, fell in wavy darkness to her waist; approaching me, she said: “Maiden of mortal bi: th, what wouldst thou in Dewina’s realm? art thou weary of thy own fair clime?"
“Oh, no, most charming queen; but since childhood’s rosy dawn I have dreamed of the beauties of your sphere, and now God has blessed me by a realization of my wildest hopes: in your power, most gracious lady, lies the fulfillment of all these indent desires. Fain would I traverse your enchanting realm.”
“’Tis well, fair child of Earth. Hither we now will go, to Dewina’s home.”
Then taking me by the hand she conducted me to her fairy barge, and soon we were gliding o’er the crystal sheen. The queen conversed with me until we touched a small island rising in verdant beauty from the bosom of the lake; from which we ascended by a stairway to a palace of unpar-ralleled magnificence. We entered a stately hall, bright with many-colored gems. Its crystal walls were arched with amethyst, and paved with blocks of ruby and emerald; here and there purling fountains emptied their cooling waters into coral basins, and o’er the whole the amethystic roof shed a hazy softness, as of mountain mist in morning’s smile. After we had wandered through the varied and numerous apartments, Dewina said:
“The daughters of Night are high in their course; let us go forth to roam ’neath their light."
We again went forth; new beauties smiled a welcome at every step. A far extended forest no.w unfolded its varied charms of distant grottoes, sylvan bowers, and flowery glades: nature’s fountains were gurgling and pouring their bright waters into laughing streamlets, on whose banks nymph-like forms reposed.
I exclaimed—“ How blessed such people are!”
Dewina said:—“Not so blessed as you, the children of Redemption; for poor weak mortals Christ shed His Precious Blood,”—and then, w ith a smile of ecstatic love beaming on her countenance, she continued—“I assure you, could passion dwell in a sinless breast, we would envy mortals their many pains."
“ And had you no temptation ?”
“ Yes, a fountain of sweetest nectar. Behold!” As she said this she pointed to a stream flowing from crystal rocks: “Child, redeemed by a Saviour’s Blood, advance and drink.”
I drank, and with it oblivion of all my sins Then my celestial guide said—“Your mission here is done; let us go hence. ” Once more supporting me, we arose in space, while the words of a sweet adieu floated on the quivering breezes far below.
At last we reached my father’s home. Here my guide left me, saying—“ Be wise, and seek in God your only rest ”
I passed through the arched gateway: the same flowers bloomed on the path; but new faces greeted me, and strange voices told me that the friends of my youth sleep in their silent graves. A century had rolled its years away ; so swift is time where sin dwells not! Deep desolation possessed my soul. I wept in the abandonment of my grief; when a kiss on my brow dispelled my enchantment It was my mother, seeking her absent child, for the rosy dawn was smiling in the east.
But come, thou youthful beam of my days; the stars are gleaming o’erhead; let us go forth, and while we gaze on the sparkling vault we will think of those words of the inspired Apostle:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“Eye hath not seen, ear hath not heard, nor hath it ever entered into the heart of man to conceive what God has prepared for those who love Him.
B. F. G.
the use of partisan books in the public schools? Will not the supporters of this measure accept as a substitute a section prohibiting the exercise of such power by the general assembly in regard to any book? If their object be the one they profess, I think they would certainly do so. If their object be to obtain personal notoriety, by exciting bitter dissensions, perhaps bloodshed, among the people of the State, they would as certainly refuse.
I hope such is not their object. I hope it will not appear against them hereafter, that they have taken and used in vain the most sacred names; that they have interlarded their discourse with texts from Holy Writ for base purposes; that, in a word, they have stolen the livery of heaven to serve the devil in.
I assume that the intentions of the gentlemen are good; that they have been actuated only by religious enthusiasm, however mistaken or misplaced it may appear to be. And I assume that the deceptive character of the proposition they support is not the result of design, but of an unfortunate use of words.
Now, let me ask the gentlemen and the convention, if the proposition I am about to read be not more comprehensive, more just, freer from objection, and more of the character of a constitutional provision ?
The State shall have no power to require or prohibit the use of particular books in the public schools. The selection of such books, and the management of the schools, shall belong to the directors of each school district.
If this-proposition be better than theirs, would it not be possible that a still better proposition might be devised by the committee on education ? And is it not apparent that all these amendments ought to go to them for their deliberate examination?
I regret that I have been compelled to take part in this debate. My feelings were averse to it, but I could not resist the call of duty.
I owed it to my constituents, a large portion of whom have, with their co-religionists, been misrepresented and slandered on this floor, charged with the design to overthrow the free institutions of this country, and that by gentlemen who are themselves seeking to change the Constitution of the State in the interest of theirown sectarian schemes. I owed it to the cause of truth and justice; I owed it to popular rights and freedom of conscience, now openly attacked; I owed it to religion, in, whose sacred name, under whose holy garb, this great wrong and outrage is sought to be done.
I will notice the aspersions upon that portion of our people who belong to the Catholic Church.
I regret that there is not in this body any professed member of that Church to speak for it I am not a member of that denomination, but I can now speak without prejudice. Starting out with a strong bias against the Catholic doctrines, believing sincerely the charges which I have beard repeated in this debate, and regarding that Church as corrupt and anti-Christian, I have, after an investigation of ten years, come to the conclusion that I have myself been in error, and that the Christian religion has been preserved, and still exists within the bosom of that Church, and that the vocation of its clergy, and the only purpose of its hierarchy, is the service of God and the salvation of human souls.
The charge made here against the Catholics, and urged with passionate declamation, is that they design to overthrow the free institutions of this country. I ask, where is the evidence to sustain t is charge? I challenge investigation. I appeal to history. From the day when Lord Baltimore landed his Catholic colony on the shores of Maryland, and set the example of universal toler-
The Bible in the Public Schools.
SPEECH BY MR. S. S. HAYES, OF CHICAGO, IN THE ILLINOIS CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.
[From the Convention Register.]
Sir. Hayes.—Mr. President: Since this subject has been thrust upon the convention, I will express my views as briefly as possible. The amendment of the gentleman from Carroll (Mr. Wagner) is that the Bible shall not be excluded from the public schools. What Bible ismeant? Is it the Christian Bible, the Mohammedan Bible or the Mormon Bible? Gentlemen say the Christian Bible. Then why do you not express it in your amendment? Will the supporters of this measure say further whether or not they mean any particular version of the Bible? If they are sincere, they will say that they mean the English version of James the First, which they call the Protestant Bible. Then, why do you not express that in the amendment? Is not the amendment deceptive for want of particularity ?
Again, what is meant by saying the Bible shall not be excluded from the schools? Boes not the statement proceed on the false assumption that the Bible is now used in the public schools? Is it a fact that the Bible is used as a school-book in even a majority of the public schools? But it may be said to mean that, whether used or not now, no order shall be issued by those in charge of the schools to prevent its being brought into or used in the schools. I supposed that the books used in the public schools were enjoined by the school directors. If that be so, this amendment contains another false assumption, namely, that there is a right somewhere outside of the school directors and lawful governors to prescribe the text-books, as in the teachers, for example, and that the function of the directors is simply to exclude from use those which they find objectionable.
Do gentlemen mean to overthrow subordination and discipline in the schools? Do they mean to privide in the constitution that if a teacher chooses, without authority, to make the Bible a text-book, there shall be no power in the directors to control him ? But suppose this teacher, construing the constitution for himself, has introduced the Catholic version, would the directors have a right to exclude that Bible, once introduced ? Is it certain the courts would hold that the word “bible’ is so restricted in its meaning as gentlemen contend ? The teacher has introduced his Douay Bible, the directors attempt to exclude it, and issue an order to that effect. The teacher refuses to obey, and asserts that he is using a Bible, and that the constitution forbids its exclusion. Upon an appeal to the courts, what would be the decision ? Would it be in favor of the teacher or of the directors ? Who can tell ? Then the phraseology is uncertain, deceptive, opposed to order and the present mode of government in schools, and promotive of litigation and bad blood. But it may be said the intention is to restrain the general assembly from passing any law to prohibit the use of the Bible in schools. Do gentlemen fear such legislation? Is there any danger of it? Would it not be a violation of local self-government of the most odious kind ? If gentlemen fear such an exercise of power, is there no danger of its abuse in regard to other publications than the Bible? Is there no danger that a party in power may seek to perpetuate its ascendency by compelling
ation, down to the present hour, I wish to know when and where the Catholics have ever failed in their duty to their country, or been found in opposition to her laws or institutions? Was it in the revolutionary war? History answers that they were at every post of peril, and crowded every battle-field—that generous Catholics from bevond the seas, Kosciuscko, and DeKalb, and Lafayette, and Rochambeau aided in our struggle, and with them thousands of our Catholic allies, sent to us by the Catholic king of France. Who could say that we would have gained our independence without that aid? Was it in the war of 1812? Was it in the Mexican war, waged against a Catholic nation? Did anyone ever hear that our Catholic citizens refused to serve the country in that war? Was not Shields there, and Morrison, and Lawler, and thousands with them? Was it in the recent gigantic struggle against armed rebellion? Here was the golden opportunity for all who had evil designs to aid in the overthrow of the government. Where were the Catholics in that struggle? Did they ally themselves with the public enemy, to obtain advantages for themselves or their religion ? Did not every State send her thousands of Irish and German and French and American Catholics to the defense of the country? Did any of them turn their backs on the enemy ? Every one knows that regiment after regiment of Catholics went from our cities. In Chicago, Father Dunne, a Catholic priest, himself raised a regiment. From a hundred thousand graves of heroes slain in our defense, over each of which, if found by their kindred, a wooden cross would gleam white in the sunshine, come the reproachful words, “It is not true that we who died for our country have been traitors to her cause.” Who does not remember the death of the brave Mulligan, of Chicago ? 1^ knew him well; brave he was as any knight of chivalry; pure, upright, devout. When wounded unto death, he lay on the field of battle, his soldiers sought to take him up, what were the last words of that true and faithful son of the Catholic Church, now denounced as being hostile to American liberties? “Boys, let me lie, and save the flag.” What flag was that ?. Was it the flag of king or emperor? No; it was the red, white and blue, the star-spangled banner of the United States, which in his dying hour, when the blood was oozing from his wounds, was precious in his sight, more precious than his own life.
Yet such sacrifices as these are not enough to shield the Catholics from this false and unworthy charge.
But, says one gentleman, Father Hecker has said this country will be Catholic, and all the priests are trying to make it so. Well, does that prove the charge of treason, or hostility to our institutions? I admit the Catholics are preaching Christianity everywhere, in China, in India, in Africa, in Europe, in our own country. They are trying toconvert everyone they can to the Catholic Church. Is that not the duty of all teachers of Christianity ? Did not our Saviour command them to go into the world and preach the Gospel to every creature ? Their clergy live only for the good of souls and the propagation of the Gospel. They have no families; most of them under vows of poverty; no worldly ambition. The extension of their faith and the conversion of sinners is the commission they received from the head of the Church—the object of their lives.
Now, I deny that any true Christian man, whether Catholic or Protestant, can be dangerous to the state. The divine law is to return good for evil, to love our enemies, and to obey the powers that be, for they are ordained of God.
I have no fears of Christianity, in forms. If we have anything to fear it i
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
machinations of the evil one who sometimes tempts the ambitious and unprincipled to make a cloak of religion, while inflaming the bad passions ‘ of men, for their own selfish aggrandizement.
I feel justified in denouncing the measure under consideration as an unholy measure. As I have shown, it is deceptive and untruthful in its terms. It assumes the existence of a state of facts which does not exist. It is without precedent in any of the American constitutions, because it is a direct stab at civil and religious liberty.
It will be remembered that on a former occa. sion I oifered an amendment, providing that persons desiring to educate their children by teachers of their own religious faith, and having conscientious scruples against a merely secular education, might have some part of the school fund, not exceeding the amount of school taxes paid by them. That was rejected by the convention, under the pleathat it would int'erfeie with the public schools, and promote sectarianism. It was claimed that the public schools should be used by the people of all sects and opinions, and only secular learning taught there, that the religious instruction should be received, not at school, but in the family and the church.
ow, after compelling all the people to use and attend these schools, or be at double expense for education, we find members of this convention trying to force upon the people, of all shades of opinion, the use in those schools by their children of a version of the Bible which has been adopted by less than one-tenth of the Christian world, and is claimed by the Catholics, who preserved the original for 1 500 years, to be an inaccurate and unfair translation, and by some of the largest de nominations of Prote-tants to be unreliable.
I do not yield to any one in my veneration for the sacred writings contained in our Bible.
I believe them to be inspired, and to be of inestimable value to the Christian Church. I believe, however, that the Church did exist in its full perfection before a single book of the New Testament was written. I believe, also, that it is only by the decrees of the Church that we know that the sacred canon is properly made up, and what writings were entitled to a place therein. I believe also that the original words in the Hebrew or Greek show the meaning of the writers better than any translation, and that we have no evidence that the men who, by orderof King James, prepared our common English version, were inspired or free from error, although I acknowledge the beauty and general fidelity of that translation, when no sectarian dogma was in question.
Believing the Bible to be inspired, I am bound to believe the words of St. Peter in his second general epistle—“Even as our beloved brother Paul, also, according to the wisdom given unto him, hath written unto you; as, also, in all his epistles, speaking ir. them of these things, in which are some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable wrest, as they do also the other scriptures, unto their destruction.” If we are told from on high that the unlearned and unstable wrest the Scriptures to their destruction, it Siems to me that these Scriptures should be expounded by enlightened and devout persons, and read by the unlearned and unstable, as all children are, only under the direction of such persons. I see no propriety in per-imitting any teacher in the public schools, a nonbeliever, perhaps an infidel or an atheist, to direct the public perusal by these unlearned and unstable children of these writings, which, for want of proper instruction, can be wrested by them to their own destruction. I wish my children to be instructed in the Scriptures, but not by profane persons, infidels, or atheists. And as I do not claim
infallibility for myself, I would not sanction an attempt to force my religious faith upon the children of my neighbors, who are as conscientious as I am, and who hold different, perhaps opposite, views to my own.
Such an attempt I am prepared to denounce everywhere, as unjust and wicked, opposed to the spirit of Christianity, and promotive of discord and evil, instead of “peace on earth, and good will among men.”
But admitting, for argument’s sake, that there is no objection to the use of the Bible in the free schools; admitting that all who send to them are Protestants, using the King James version in their families, and that the teachers are all Protestant Christians, capable of selecting and expounding wisely—let all this be true—still there was a principle of vital importance involved—a right of the most precious kind destroyed by this proposition.
It is an attempt to declare, in the organic law, that the state has a right to control the consciences of its people, and may prescribe the particular souices from which the youth of the country shall derive their ideas and opinions upon religious sub-j cts, and upon all other subjects.
If the state may forbid the exclusion or nonuse of one book, it may of another. It may, with the shifting majorities of a representative government, install Paine’s Age of Beason, the Mormon Bible, or the Koran of Mahomet in the same place of authority. It may compel the education of our youth as Buddhists, as materialists, or as atheists. It may also perpetuate the power of any party in power, by compelling the use in the schools of books in support of that party, and excluding all books opposed to its theories.
A power so dangerous as this cannot be exercised in a free government. It is, or should be, prohibited in our bill of rights. The direction of the education of children should be with their parents and guardians, and with the director chosen in each school district by those who send their children to the schools. And that direction should be of a character to do no violence to the consciences aud convictions of any portion of the people.
Our people have always been jealous of their right to freedom of conscience. Now, that freedom is sought to be violated. They have ever opposed the union of Church and state. Now, a precedent is sought to be established, by which, hereafter, Church and state may be united, or what is far worse—infidelity aud the state, atheism and the state.
I trust we are a Christian people. I believe we recognize by our common laws and the statutes the Lord’s day as a universal day of rest from public secular employments. I hope we will always do so. But we have also, in every’ form, declared the right of all persons and all classes to worship God according to the dictates of their own consciences. We have, in every form, denied the right of the majority, or their representatives, in any way to do violence to the consciences of the minority.
Whenever the contrary doctrine shall be insisted on elsewhere, as it is here, its assertion will be opposed and resisted. The attempt to enforce it will lead to dissension, to sectarian wars the most bloody and terrible. Let all lovers of their country unite to condemn it.
Let us send this proposition to the committee, there to be buried out of sight, never to be revived.
-------ii—1>
Conundrum.—Why should a drum with both heads mashed in be regarded as a very superior article?
Because it “can’t be beat.”
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.1’
THE FIRST CRUSADE.
PB0M0TED BY POPE UBBAN H-PEEACHED BY PETEK THE HEEMIT.
A Drama.
ACT IV.—Scene III.
[A large procession with Aldemar, Godfrey, Tancred, leading Peter Bartholomew, who immediately pass oIT the stage N eu rushing by them bearing faggots, torches, and banners. Chartres, Hugh, Leonardo, Ladislas, Alfred, Andrew. The preparation for the trial by fire is heard behind the scenes. The crackling of fiames —Confusion of voices, accompanied by solemn music, like the “ Pares, Pomlne, parsepopulo "J
Leonardo.—{Waving hisbanner and pointing to the crowd) See! they are coming: armies areflying To learn if God’s wonders are done by man’s lying.
Alfred.—When starving men put countless troops to flight,
To know a miracle we have a right.
Elmer.—{Swinging his hat.)	■
Long live Bartholomew! Ho! for the Lance! Chartres must have been jealous; he saw not the trance.	[and straight,
Hugh.—O, comrades, lay the branches smooth For angels round God’s servant will await.
Chartres.—Look out! no tricks! You’re watched with prudent zeal!
Hugh.—{Defying Chartres).
Do you believe all men are knaves? Look you I If you yourself would practice sleight of hand, And by your tricks pretend to aid our Lord, Accuse another of it—not tell them.
[Enter Tancred.]
Tancred—The Archbishop sends me bidding you be calm;
Subdue your passions. Quell them out of love For Him who healed the high priest’s servant.
This
Is time for awe and not for words of strife.
Chartres, you are called. As Peter passes through You must be near him! Men, at such an hour God’s wonders being questioned, we should wait In silence and in prayer.
[Chartres and all pass ojTi] [Enter Egbert.]
Egbert.—Then I am late! How still they all are! Hark!
He’s passing through the fires and no one moves! Who ever saw an army stand so still ?
I’ll stay here, though; for in the mighty crowd I could not see if there.
{One tremendous shout of triumph is heard.)
Aldemar.—[Behind the scenes.)	Thank God
The test is done! The Lance is true! This blade Is sacred to the faithful evermore I
{Allshoutbehindthescenes “Bartholomew! Bartholomew forever!")
Ladislas —{Behind the scenes—g^eat excitement) Put out the fire! Belies! The brands! the
brands! {A great crash occurs)
Alfred.—Give us the veil that bound the Lance!—the veil!
The veil for relics! ’Tis a miracle!
[Enter Peter, Aldemar, Godfrey, and people ] Godfrey.—(Hilding up the Sacred Lance )
’Tis proved by fire! ’tis the Centurion’s Lance! Our victory comes of its celestial power!
What, wonder? The last drop of Precious Blood From out our Saviour’s Heart hath steeped this Is it a marvel that the foes of God [blade 1 Should wither in its presence?
{Loud cheers and cries of “Hat no! no! I”) [Enter Chartres, quite subdued.)
His justice is eternal as His love;
And that the future ages may not doubt
’Twas He who conquered for us, He hath sent From heaven bright angelic witnesses
{AU “ Live Bartholomew ! Godfrey forever!")
Au>WAR.~{Raisinghishandtocommand silence.)
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Let there no more be question. When the fires Silence their clamorous tongues, and stand abashed At accusations that men dare to make, Man's folly is confounded. Who can stand Rebuke from the Almighty? Doubter, haste, And by your manhood,—nay, by nobler claim, Acknowledge your injustice.
Chartres.—(Overwhelmed, kneeling nt the foot <f Bartholomew.)	Oh, forgive!
Bartholomew; forgive and pray for me!
(All lift their hats and erg “ Deo Gratias !"—many kneel and how their heads, and beat their breasts.)
Hugh.—(Kneeling at the feet of Aldemar.) Your Grace, while Peter stood within the fire, Saw ye the angel walking by his side?
Aldemar.—Yes, bending near to shield him. I beheld!
Claude.—(To all.)
And one in priestly garments! Saw ye him ? A folded chasuble upon his head, Saw ye the wonder ?	.
(All cry in a loud voice “ Aye! we saw, we saw!”) Peter Bartholomew.—(Coming forward.)
The Lord appeared to me and took my hand And bade me gaze upon the Sacred Lance. Lo ! from its point a thousand lucid streams Gushed forth and fell upon the hungry flames;— I felt no heat! I knew no fear, but saw The mystic power that drove the Paynim Turks. “ Those streams,” our Saviour said, “ shall flow through earth
and inundate the ages of all time, To make rich conquests for my Bleeding Heart.” I saw our Lord no more: the test was done!
ACT V.—Scene I.
[Godfrey alone. Enter Hugh with a dead carrier-dove In his hand.]
Hugh.—Duke, see the wonder! This unwilling foe
Has proved a traitor to our enemies. (Holds up a letter.) Letters from Emir of Ptolomais Sent to all the Emirs.
Godfrey.—(Eigerly.) Ah! how did it happen? Hugh.—A vulture chased the bird, and the poor thing
Wounded and trembling fluttered from the clouds, Gasped, spread her wings, and died at Conrad’s feet.
Duke Godfrey, read the papers.
Godfrey.—(Takes the papers and reads.) God is God;
Mahomet is his prophet! At Command Of our supreme magician, Aboufay, We, Emir of Ptolmais, do exhort All Emirs of all lands, by every means To seek destruction of the Christians. Lo! The horoscope forewarns us; as ye prize Your comforts, luxuries, your right to reign, Slaughter these reptiles, so not one be left. Set fire to cities; starve them ; burn them; kill! All Bethlehem is ablaze, and but one thought Now actuates all Mussulmans. ’Tis this: To occupy and hold Jerusalem.
We will demolish meantime every trace Of the great tomb the Christians venerate. Allah, defend the Turk, and curse his foes! Drive them from Syria! Let the word pass round, Or they will triumph I List to Aboufay!
“ Fate wanders through a cloud! Her light will shine
On him who is most valiant! His reward, A harem of fair women; lovely maids Culled from the beauty of the Christian lands, And Paradise hereafter. Hereunto Do we affix our seal, eighth moon—tenth day, SOLYMEN, Emir of Ptolmais, To all the Emirs of Arabia.”
Hugh.—[Voise of excited voices outside.}
What shall be done. Duke Godfrey ? Let us fly To guard the Holy Tomb.
Godfrey.—	They will be stayed
In this attempt; fear not so dark a crime.
But we will haste to purge them from the land.
[Erit Hugh. Enter Peter the Hermit.] Peter.—Hast heard of our disaster? At the door
Three fugitives from Bethlehem bring report That Galilee is one broad sheet of flame.
(Enter Mark, James and others.]
Godfrey.—Good welcome friends! What of the Sultan’s troop ?
James.—They press in fury to Jerusalem;
They pillage, burn and slaughter, and our flight Is to secure your aid.
Tancred.—	Duke, I will go.
The glorious standard of the Cross shall wave Above the spot where Jesus Christ was born, Bafore another midnight
Godfrey.—( Grasping his hand.) Heaven protect!
God speed you welL Your object once achieved Haste back to the great contest.
Tancred.—	Yes, Lord Duke,
Farewell, St. George assist you!
Godfrey.—	Fare you well!
[Exit Tancred. Enter Hugh and Gaston de Berne]
Gaston de Berne! Welcome, and peace with you. We’ve work for your good talent and great zeaL Without delay command three rolling Towers, Eight cubits higher than the city walls, To be constructed on the noblest plan.
Let every instrument to aid the siege
Be placed in working order. Spare no pains.
Let all be built so missiles can be sent
With force extreme! Delay not! Time is power.
Gaston de Berne.—(Profoundly bowing.) Yourservant.myLord Duke. Trust my good will. I know your grand intention, heart and hand I shall in all things second your design.
[End of Scene L]
Correspondence of the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
St. Bridget’s College, Rome, April 13,1870.
Messrs. Editors: Please give space, in the columns of your valuable papers, to the following account of a newly organized body, now known as “ St. Bridget’s Literary Association ”:
The members of this institution, though rich in intellectual stores, have been content heretofore to reap in those fields of science which are laid open to all alike; and each has desired only to increase his own stock of knowledge, from which he has drawn his most exalted enjoyments. True, there is no situation in life so high that must not, after all, owe its purest enjoyments to feeling with which the mind is connected; there is none so low that may not be cheered and refined by draughts from the same fount. But it cannot be denied that one of the principal sources of literary enjoyment is found in association, where the smallest service is sure to be rewarded by proportionate gratification to him who may have conferred it. Then here where science and literature have every aid, and every aid acquires a new impulse from the imposing association of learned and talented men, we have deemed it proper to organize ourselves a body for our mutual improvement, and for this purpose many of the inmates of St Bridget’s College met on the evening of the 18th March last.
The meeting having been called to order by Rev. Father Superior, the members proceeded to ballot for officers, which resulted in the unanimous election of
Rev. F. P. Battista, D. D.,—President
Rev. W. J. Bregelaar,—Vice-President
Rev. W. McDonnell,—Recording Secretary.
Rev. E. M. O’Callaghan,—Treasurer.
Rev. J. Le Bian,—Librarian.
James Cunnea,—Corresponding Secretary.
Each of the officers having addressed the Association in few but appropriate words, Mgr. Dufal, Bishop of East India, and Mgr. Martin, Bishop of Natchitoches, both of whom have been remaining at St Bridget’s since the opening of the Council, were proposed and unanimously elected Honorary Presidents. A committee being appointed to draw up a constitution, the meeting, on motion, adjourned until the evening of March 22d, when the Association again met. The house was called to order by Right Rev. Bishop Dufal. The Committee of the previous meeting presented the constitution which they had framed, and which with few alterations was adopted.
Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of Order of the Holy Cross, was proposed and unanimously elected an Honorary President
A vote of thanks was returned to one of the members who presented the Society with four thousand volumes of choice works. The Association has subscribed for several of the leading journals of Europe. A spacious reading-room has been fitted up, and we feel assured that our Society, though young in point of time, is rich in talent, and can justly vie with any similar organization in the “ Eternal City”.
James Cunnea, Cor. Sec.
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
“Ship Ahoy.”
“ Ay, ay, sir!” Such was the prompt and sailorlike response to our nautical shout yesterday, as we “ signaled,” for the first time, a fairy-like craft speeding through the waters of Lake St. Joseph. Sturdy arms and flashing oars soon brought the vessel to shore, when, springing on board, we transferred thefollowingitemsirom“log” to notebook:
“The ‘sea-dogs’ of Notre Dame, pining for ‘A life on the ocean wave.
And a home on the rolling deep,* raised the “rhino,” sent it to Mr. Bagley, via Chicago, and by “next tide” got in return for their $100 a graceful little “barque” 25x4 feet, “pulling” 4 oars, and “drawing” only 3 inches.
Being “piped to quarters,” the jolly tars unanimously resolved that they should be known to fame as the “ Notre Dame Boat Club,” and their “craft” as the “Santa Maria;” a vote by ballot resulted in the election of the following officers:
President—Rev. A Lemonnier, S. S. C.
Vice President—J. R. Boyd.
Secretary—D. H. Hibbard.
Treasurer—L. B. Logan. Commodore—J. Mulhall.
The “time” made on the lake by four inexperienced rowers, was one mile in 5 minutes and 48 seconds, which, though very good, we opine, is nothing to what their speed will be after a few lessons in “nauticals” from the experienced “pilot” who now holds the “helm.”
That they may “steer’’astraight “course,” as well o’er the stormy ocean of life as through the placid waters of “St. Joseph’s Lake,” is the sincere wish of their “isle-bom” and sea-loving “shipmate,”	Patric.
The Annalist takes the place of the College Standard. It was our intention to have spoken of several of our exchanges in this issue, but we have not space. Of The Annalist, however, we can only speak in praise, and must say it would be difficult to find fault with a paper so attractive and so meritorious as it certainly ia.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^otre ^ame Scholastic.
PUBLISHED SEMI-MONTHLY AT NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
TERMS: One year........................................  00
Five months.....................-......... .... I 00
Clubs of five, in the University, one year..... I 00
Single copies................................ 5	cents.
The Noras Dame Scholastic can be obtained at the Students’ office.
A Propless House and a Skinless Editor.
We take for granted that our Chesterfieldian exchange. The Vidette, has pretensions to be a gentleman's paper, and therefore believes itself entitled to the ownership of a decent claim to the title of veracity. Believing that it means exactly what it says, we are forced, in spite of our modesty, to print the following compliment to our flaying abilities, from the columns of that gigantic sheet: “ The Nome Dame Scholastic artistically flays the editor of Harper's Magazine, in a five column article, entitled, ‘Religiously Enthused ’ ” We are profoundly grateful to our beloved contemporary for this flattering account of our operations, however disastrous the results may have been; and therefore express our heartfelt sorrow for the shock we have given to its religious feelings. Itisquitetrue that we-usea the term “pious” in reference to the “ devoted house” from which The Targum says our broadside knocked “ the last prop,” but in looking over Worcester, we find the adjective “pious” to be defined thus: “Dutiful to God; devout; religious." This being its definition, it is not wonderful that a gentleman's paper, like The Vidette, should be horrified at our qualifying the “devoted house” with anything “pious.” Our contemporary’s masterly familiarity with the use of “ the supine in u,” as well as its scathing rebuke of our impiety, are artistically blended in the following parenthetically guarded sentence: “ (Horribile dictu! Pious and Harpe-rian )” Before we demolished the “ devoted house,” we were informed that the editor in question was in the daily habit of singing hymns, and of praying in the high places where he had an audience of one “intelligent servant” to say the Amen’s! We now see the mistake into which we have been led, however, and make an act of contrition for the pain we have given our little darling pink of politeness, in calling what it pronounces an “arch ignoramus,” a “pious” or even a “veracious” editor. The Vidette is right: “pious” won’t stick to “ Harperian,” even though soldered on with an italicized conjunction, and hooped around with a parenthesis. The Vidette, a “ publication that has a decent claim to the title of a gentlemans paper,” is utterly disgusted at the amount of piety which our “opening sentence promises well” to display in the editor whom our artistic coup de grace has left without a skin, and therefore indignantly throwsthe Scholastic aside, naturally concluding that an editor who can be made so “ pious” in one sentence, is pretty sure to turn out a saint at the end of “a five-column article entitled, ‘Religiously Enthused’”
The Vidette, “a publication that has a decent claim to the title of a gentleman's paper,” goes into fits because the careless glance of its indignant eye has discovered in what it confesses it has “ not carefully looked over,” that its “ arch ignoramus” is brought out in no fewer than fifteen “ pious” characters in the columns of the Scholastic! “ (Horribile dictu! Pious and Harperian.)” Alas that italicized conjunction can be put to such base uses! The Vidette, “ a publication that has a de-
cent claim to the title of a gentlemans paper,” has clearly allowed its religious indignation to cloud its judgment, when it says that the days of Mr. Potts are gone! They are not gone. If they were, ours would now be the painful lask of writing the elegy instead of the pleasing duty of penning the eulogy of our contemporary. We repeat our sorrow at being entrapped into the idea that an “ arch ignoramus”could be “pious,”and hope The Vidette will generously forgive us for the injury we have thereby inflicted on its deeply religious nature. Its astoundingly comprehensive plans for constructing “ three Universities like that of Slichigan ” out of consolidated mushrooms, prove what we have always thought about it, namely, that it is lamentably in need of finding some place where six youths “ can at least learn the rudiments of a respectable education”.
Excursion.
The Law Class had its annual excursion on the 7th inst; the objective point being, as usual, the thriving city of Niles. Arrangements had been previously made with the proprietor of the Reading House, by a special committee deputed to provide for the comfort of the party; and it may be said to the credit as well as the good taste of the improvised commissariat, that nothing was found wanting to satisfy the lawful aspirations of the excursionists.
Prof. P. Foote, LL. JI., with his usual courtesy, had extended an invitation to several members of the Faculty, among which were our ever cheerful Prof. J. A. Lyons, our happy vocalist, Prof. JL T. Corby, and the non-despirited writer of these lines.
Niles, and all that it contains worth admiring, passed once more under the benignant gaze of its noonday visitors. The banquet hall of the hotel had put on its best attire, and the luxuries of the season covered the inviting board, round which sat the festive host and merry guests. The study of Law no doubt sharpens wit; else a fortnight provision of puns and jokes had been stored away as appetizers for the occasion. Toasts were carried and responded to by the invited guests and several members of the Class. JIr. D. Hibbard responded very eloquently on behalf of Slichigan. He was followed by Mr. J. O’Reilly, A. B, of Pennsylvania, Mr. E. McFarland, of Iowa, Mr. R. K. Brush, of Indiana, and Mr. J. Mulhall, of Missouri. All these young gentlemen mani fested in their expressions a high regard for the profession to which they aspire, their sincere respect for their able Professor, Prof. P..Foote, and esteem for their Alma Mater, which has recently established the Department of Law in its favored precincts.
Profs. J. A Lyons and M. T. Corby were in turn called upon, and responded very felicitously and encouragingly to the toastsof the Class. Prof. Foote concluded the round of responses. In his remarks it could be seen that he was more than a witness of the success which the Law Department has obtained at Notre Dame, for his had been the duty and the privilege of fostering that success, and therefore it was with feelings of deep emotion that the hard-working and much-esteemed professor expressed his satisfaction to the members of the Class.
After dinner the guests adjourned to the parlors of the hotel or visited their friends in the city. At 7J4 P. M., the excursionists beheld again the towers of Notre Dame, upon which glimmered the last rays of a happy day.
If you want good board in Chicago—go to a lumber-yard.
Here and There.
Meteorological.—For a few weeks past we have been enjoying beautiful spring weather, with the exception, however, of some few disagreeable rainy days, but they serve to heighten the more our appreciation by the evident contrast they afford. A slight shower, accompanied by the first thunder and lightning of the season, fell one evening last week. The weather at present is quite cool and some signs of rain are quite apparent; still, linen coats and straw bats are very common, but not to such an extent as they were last week.
Month of May.—As announced in ourlast issue, the month of May—at Notre Dame most truly the month of Mary—was inaugurated in an imposing manner, on Saturday the 30th ult.
During this delightful season all the inmates of Notre Dame assemble each evening around the shrine of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, and there honor that Virgin Queen whom the Almighty Himself so much honored. Select hymns are sung by our very excellent choir, and a short appropriate sermon is preached, setting forth some distinguished quality of her to whom this month is dedicated. A large and beautiful statue of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, purchased by Very Rev. Father General in Paris, was blessed with appropriate ceremonies on the evening of the 30th ult
Baseball.—As might be inferred from the numerous reports from Baseballdom appearing in our paper, match games are the order of recreation days, and are quite fond of amusement. We would not be surprised to witness the Star of the East deprive the Juanita for the first time of the champion’s belt, which the Enterprise of last year and the Mutual of other years in vain attempted to effect. The Star of the South shines with diminished brilliancy. We learn with sorrow that our last notice of its rise elicted some very extravagant remarks from those immediately interested i । it.
The Fountain.—We obsereve with pleasure that the large venerable fountain adorning the entrance to the garden has undergone much needed repairs, and is now prepared to throw forth its beautiful crystal jet d'eau. May our ears be often delighted by the trickling of its waters.
The Lakes.—The season is now at hand when the vicinity of our lakes afford a most enchanting, landscape. The delightful shades of their shores the warbling of numerous birds of various kinds frolicking of squirrels, &c., and the plasid waters of the lakes over whieh glide happy parties of rowers, all conspire to render this a pleasant retreat to the students after a week’s close application in the study-room.
Fly Catchers, Attention!—You are evidently laboring under the false impression that others heads have the same constitution as patient nurses—they can stand a great deal of bawling; otherwise you would not be so unconcerned and unceremonious in the manner in which you display your startling feats of batting, fouling and flying. Hence in the name of all that is precious we would humbly request that you change the base of your operations and release the majority from their state of trepidation, by retiring within the bounds set apart for such sports.
The Yale Courant contemplates some changes in its editorial conduct. It is an excellent college paper, and worthily represents a venerable i tution of learning.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
151
-'For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
In Memoriam.
Frank Guthrie, a former student of Notre Dame University, and a member of St. Edward’s Literary Association, entered St. Joseph’s Novitiate, July, 18G9, receiving in the following month the holy habit of religion and the name of Brother Athanasius, by which he is known and remembered among us.	.
After a few months sickness he ended an edifying life by a calm and peaceful death, April 22d, 1870, in the 18th year of his age. On his deathbed he had the consolation of making, by special dispensation, his solemn profession as a member of the Order of the Holy Cross, into the hands of Very Rev. Father Granger.
Reader! may his pure and holy life serve as a model for us, and may our end be like unto his— the death of the just. On perusing this short sketch of a beloved companion and school-fellow, drop a tear to his memory while joining with me in saying May he rest in peace.—Amen.
As one who leaves a cherished flower at nigh t With drooping head.
And hasting to it with the morning light,
Looks—sighs—and backward starts with sudden fright To find it dead—
Dear Friend and Brother! on a conch of pain I saw thee last, And tho’ I ne’er may gaze on thee again* The memory of that scene shall ayo remain Till life be passed 1
What saw I then? a wan and wasted youth, Whose hurried breath
Whose hectic cheek, and lustrous eyes forsooth Confirmed the dread, tfie sad, the solemn truth “Life U but death?"
Nay, more; far more I I saw, and joyed to see, Nor only I, The peace that couquereth death’s fierce agony And wins the crown —Dear Brother, I saw thee— A Christian diet
Such fervent faith as sheds tho blaze of day Ou death’s deep night—
Urging tho eager soul to wing her way
To heaven, where myriad sweet-voiced angels pray Iu realms of light!
Such radiant hope as they alone can feel Who lire by faith—
Filling the heart with peace thro* every ill, Causing the soul with heavenly joy to thrill, And smile ou Death 1
VIL
Such ardent love as only seraphs know In beaten above—
And saints on earth, whose hearts ecstatic glow, And some feint image of their idol show—
The God of Love 1
vnr.
.......Within the church the deep-toned organ sighs— Around a bier
Pale mourners stand -ou high, soft clouds arise Of fragrant incense, while from streaming eyes Rolls many a tear!
IX.
Forth, thro’ the portal surging, issue slow, The white-robed throng
Of priests and levites; solemnly they go With lifted cross, aud sad bells echo low
Tbeir sacred song 1
The “Miserere" floats upon the breeze, Filling the air—
In blessed ground enclosed by guardian trees The grave is dug—with prater on bended knees We leave thee there!.................
0 Brother, fare thee well 1 0 happy one, Life’s labors o’er.
Sleep thou in peace till earth’s few sands be run. And weary mother rest with sainted eon Forevermorel	;
Pima
COLLEGE BULLETIN
Tables of Honor.
Senior Department.
May 20th.—J. Zahm, J. Shannahan, J. Garrity, J. McGlynn, F. Kaiser, J. A Dickinson, P. O’Connell, IL Power, P. Finnegan, C. Connerton.
Junior Department.
J. Nash, J. McGuire, W. Wilstach, L. Roth, J. Antoine, G. Breunig, C. Ortmayer, C. Vinson, H. Kinkade, J. Taylor, G. Green.
Minim Department.
April 1st.—W. Byrne, H. Trentman, G. Berry, J. McCormack, G. Gross, F. Butters.
April 14th.—H. Quan, C. Campeau, D. Weldon, L. McKernan. E. Forrester, A Clarke.
May 1st.—E. Raymond, C. Clarke, C. Tarble, J. O’Hara, E. DeGroote, T. Hunt.
May 14th.—G. Gross, C. Whitney, E. Marshall, J. McDermott, A Morton, S. Hopkins.
Honorable Mention.
Botany.—J. Zahm, D. A. Clarke, L. B. Logan. Geology.—J. Gearin.
Zoology.—J. Gearin, W. Waldo.
Physiology.—J. Gearin, A. Arrington W. Waldo.
Mineralogy.—D. A. Clarke.
Penmanship, Sr.—J. A. Fox, J. Coffey, E. D. Fisher, P. Davis, J. Duffy, R. Power, T. Dillon, J. Campbell, R. Metzger, L. Trudell, L. Gibson.
Second Penmanship.—N. Shelton, C. Clarke, J. C. Leunig, P. Hohler, T. Stratton, D. Harding, J. C. Eisenman, D. Fitzgerald, W. H. Murphy, J. Looby.
Penmanship, Jr.—J. C. Doherty, C. Berdell, C. Hutchings, J. Nash, D. J. Brown, M. Nolan, K. I. Espy, S. Ashton, J. Hannaher, C. Jevene, E. Lyons, G. Lyons, H. Graves, J. McGuire, J. L. Marshall, II. Potter, P. Reilly, J. Thomson, B. Vogt, J. A. Taylor.
First Geography and History.—R. Metzger, T. Armstrong, J. Me. Murphy, W. Carson, M. Roe.
Second Arithmetic—IL Finley, N. Shelton, D. Harding, G. Reilly, G. Breunig, T. Murphy, Jno. McGinnity, C. Hutchings, R. Fahey, C. Forrestal, C. Kuhn, J. W. Murphy, F. Bish, P. Hohler, J. Gillespie, W. Chester, J. Ward, W. Roberts. G. Me Curdy.
First Grammar, Sr.—Recitation: J. C. Leunig, T. Grier, C. Hutchings, S. Dum, F. W. Shephard, M. Nolan, R. Rielly, P. Hohler, R. Staley. Anal ysis: S. Dum, J. McGlynn, J. C. Leunig, K. Killy, C. Clarke, J. Gillespie, L. McLaughlin, C. Hutchings, P. Hohler, F. W. Shephard, N. Mitchell, M Holan, J. Coffey, W. Dum. Composition: John Gillespie, J. C. Leunig, F. W. Shephard, L. McLaughlin, J. Mulhall, S. Dum, C. Clarke, James McGlynn, P. Hohler, J. Cofiy.
Second Grammar.—J. McGinnerty, J. M. Webb, A. Riopelle, G. Holman, A Mooney, C. Swenk, L. Gibson.
Third Grammar.—P. O’Connell, T. Murphy, L. Trudell, R Fahey, J. Campbell, R. Power, D. Harding.	■
First Grammar, Jr.—Recitation: K. J. Espy, J. Doherty, C Forrestal, L. Marshall, A. Cassella, J. Antoine, J. Ward, T. Foley. Analysis: K. J. Espy, L. Marshall, A Cassella, J. Doherty, C. Forrestal, S. Ashton, C. Berdel, T. Foley. J. Antoine, B. F. Roberts, J. Rumely, L. McOsker, C. Morgan, H. Graves, H. Brown, M Moriarty. Composition : J. Doherty, K. J. Espy, C. Berdel, J. Antoine, C. Antoine, C. Forrestal, S. Ashton, A Cassella, L. Marshall. Letter writing: L. Marshall, A Cassella.
First Reading, Jr.—L. Marshall, H. O’Neill, L. Hayes, W. E. Kellog, F. C. Randal, W. Gross, F. J. Obert, G. Hoffman, L. Hibben, P. Rose, James Mulvany, W. P. Nelson, W. F. Ray, J. Christy, G. Schaeffer, J. O’Neill, J. Antoine, L. A. Roth, J. Shanks, A. Barth, J. Taylor, J. Thompson, E. English, B. Vogt, H. Brown, C. Vinson, E. Lyon, G. Greene, R. Lange, J. Hanaher, C. Morgan, M. Moriarty, J. B. Goodhue.
Elocution, Jr.—C. Berdel, L. Hayes, R. Staley, M. Mahony, B. F. Roberts, C. Morgan, C. English, L. A. Roth, W. Gross, J. Kinkead, H. O’NeilL
Second Orthography.—W. Meyer, W. Wilstach, L. Hibben, W. English, P. Moran, IL Taylor.
The St. Ceciliaks were photographed in their . costumes of the comedy “ The Upstart” (Bourgeois Qentilhomme), by Mr. J. Bonney, one of the best artists in Northern Indiana.
t
Baseball.
We bad the pleasure on Wednesday, May 4th, of witnessing one of the most interesting gomes that has been played at Notre Dame for some time. The contending nines were the first nines of the Juanita and Star of the East Baseball Clubs. Previous to the beginning of the game, Mr T. Shea, of Milwaukee, generously offered a barrel of apples to the nine who should be the victors; this tended greatly to increase the interest of the game on the part of the contending nines.
At one o’clock the umpire called play. The Minims, Juniors, Seniors and Apprentices were on the grounds. The Star of the East took the field and gave the Juanitas a “whitewash”; by this time the rain, which had been falling for some time, had necessitated a suspension of play for a few moments; but the shower soon cleared away, and it seemed that a better day could not have been chosen. Daring the game the Star of the East gave the Juanita three “ whitewashes,” first, second and fifth iunings. At the end of the seventh innings the game stood— Juanita 18, Star of the East 22, which showed that the -inanity did some good batting In the third, fourth, sixth and seventh iunings. and it seemed that the game wrs about to turn in their fevor; but in the ninth inning the Star of the East ran a score of 11; at the close of this inniugsthe game was declared in fevor of the St tr of the East by a score of 35 to 21.
Of the Juanitas, Mr. Roy played behind the bat in a manner creditable to himself, making some very nice “font catches.” Mr. Boyd did good playing both as a pitcher and a second baseman. Mr. Murphy showed himself an able shortstop as well as pitcher, and mode two “fly catches,” as did Mr. Wilson. Mr. Shephard played well, making several excellent “fly catches.”
Of the Star of the East, Mr. Dickinson deserves credit for the excellent manner in which he filled the responsible position of catcher; he also exercised great skill at the bat, as did Mr. Kaiser. Mr. John Mulhall sustained his reputation as pitcher, being a sine qua non to the “whitewashes” given the Juanitas in the first and second innings. Mr. Clarke played shortstop well. No one could help admiring the excellence of Mr. Maran-tette’s playing, both as a baseman aud a pitcher; bis throwing, to say nothing of his batting, surpassed by fer that of the others Messrs. Holman and Staley did fine playing iu the field; tho former made two of the best “fly catches” made during tho game, and the latter one. Mr. Carson, though he did some good good playing in the field, showed himself perfectly at home iu the‘•centre.” His pitching was very awiit; Kitposeesaea an excellent command of the ball. Mr. Brown surprised everyone by the manner iu which he handled the ~ old spring bat; ” it ia to be noted that he made the beat score, making t»ix runs and one out. The umpire. Mr. C. Fores tai, of the Star of the West B. B. C^ gave general satisfaction; his decisions were prompt, impartial, and could be heard by all.
The gentlemen appointed to keep back the crowd did their duty, and the players had a felr chance to show their ■kill.
SCORE
I
JUOITA	o	»	bTABOFTHKEaST	I	o | K	
Boyd, p.	o	4	Maranteue. 1st B.	3	5
K>y.c.	2	3	Holman, c. f.	3	5
Wilson 2db.	3	2	Mmbail, p.	7	1
Sutherland, 1st b.	6	0	Dickinson, c.	1	5
Hue. 1 f	3	2	Caraun, - Kit” r. f.	2	4
Shephard, r. t.	3	2	Kaiser, 2d b.	2	
Murrhy. a. a-	3	3	dtaley, I. f.	3	2
Arlington c. £.	2	3	Clarke, e. a-	5	3
MainaU, 3d b.	3	2	brown, 3d b.	1	C
Total	27	21	Total	27	33
Scorers—J. A, Fox, of the Juanita Baseball Crab; N. Mitchell, of the Star of the East.
Pass balls—Juanita, 14; Star of the East, 2L
Called, balls—Juanita, 6; Star of the East, 8-
Fly catches—Juanita, 8; Star of the East, 7.	'
Fly muffs-Juanita 7; Star of the East, 6.
Foul catches—Juanita 5; Star of the East. 5.
Foul muffs—Juanita, 5; Star of the East, 3.
Wild arrows—Juanita. 3; Star of the East, L	‘
Time of game—5K hours.	Stab Sours:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Excelsior ts. Red Stocking.
A match game of Basehall was played on May 11th, between the first nines of the Excelsior and Red Stocking Baseball clubs. The first mentioned came out victorious.
The following is the score:
ExCeXMoK	o	K 1	Red Stockins	1 o	B
Tailor, c	5	5	Ha\e*. c.	3	6
Taylor, p.	3	3	Kellogg, p.	7	2
Trentman, f. 8.	2	: 2	Healy, e. s.	5	3
Hutchings. Istb.	2	1 2	Dum, 1st b.	4	3
Hoffman. 2d b.	3	1 3	lie* y, 2d b	3	3
McOtker, 3d b.	5>	; 3	Thaler. 3d b.	5	2
Hutchings. 1 f.	3	, 3	Y'astddy, 1. f.	8	0
Moriarty, c. f.	3	. 3	Dunn, c. f.	6	2
Vogt, r. £	2	1 3	Jerne, r. £.	o	3
					
Total	27	26	Total	45	23
Ely catches—Excelsior, 9; Red Stocking, 8.
Fly mnfis—Excelsior. 2; Red Stocking, 5.
Foul catches—Excelsior, 8; Red Stocking. 5.
Foul mufls—Excelsior, 2; Red Stocking, 4.
Pass ball—Excelsior, 4; Red Stocking, 8.
Called ball—Excelsior, 0; Red stocking, 7.
Home runs—Excelsior, 1; Red Stocking, 0.
Umpire—Mr. Mahoney, of the Star of the West B. B. C.
Scorers—R. Staley, M. Healy.
Time of game—5^ hours.	B. Vogt, Cor. Sec.
Star of the East ts. Independent.
The return match game of Baseball played on the 13th inst, between the third nine of the Star of the East, and the first nine Independent Baseball c ubs. The heavy betting of the Star of the East seemed to dishearten the Independents so much, that they gave up the game on the 4th innings. The following is the score:
Stab of the East | 6 | b | Independent | o j r
Boylee, c	0	9	(McFarland, c	0	3
McColiibter, p	3	5	McCurdy, p	2	1
Trndell. s s	0	10	| Moyer, s a	3	0
Mitcuell. istb	3	b	[Bvler. Istb	0	3
Kime, 2d b	n	6	Chester, 2d b	1	1
McHnrphy, Sdb	i	8	iRiopelle, 3d b	2	0
Murphy. 1 f	0	7	Compton, 1 f	1	1
Saiter, c f	2	6	iGoetter, c f	1	1
Armstrong, r f	0	7	[Metzger, r f	n	0
					
Total	11	61	Total	12	2?
Fouls caught—Star of the East, 4; Independent, 1.
Fouls muffed—Star of the East, 0; Independent, 2.
Flies muffed—Star of the East, 1; Independent, 4.
Flies caught—Star of the East, 1; Independent, 1.
Pass balls—Star of the East, 10; Independent, 14.
Called balls—Star of Ihe East, 4; Independent, 5.
Home runs— Star of the East, 5; Independent, 0.
Umpire—Mr. Harding.
Scorers—Messrs. Federspiel, and Salter.
Yours truly.
Muffin.
•Faint Gary’s ^cademy.
[Correspondence of the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.”]
PROGRAMME
FOR THE
FEAST OF ST. ANGELA.
Entrance March,	A. and E. Ewing
Welcome to our Hon. Guests,	G. Arrington
Song—** Qneen of the Night,”	M. Tuberty
Address from the Senior Department,	A Mulhall
Bouquet Vivant—(Tableau).
Song,	F. Messmore
Ruth and Noemi—(Tableau). Hano—“Les Courier”—(F. Ritter),	C. Foote
Fatal Curiosity—(Tableau). Waltz—(Chopin),	A. Mulhall
Address from the Amateur Artists,	M. Cook
Harp Music,	Misses Davenport and Shetland
Music, Painting, and Sculpture—(Tableau], French Address,	F. Messmore
“ Song of May”—[Wallace],	A Montgomery
Fairies Coming to the Feast—[Tableau]. Music—“Fairy Fingers,”	M. Kirwan
Address from the Fairies.	L. Nie!
Fairy Scene—[Tableau],	Fairy Queen, A. Clark
Little Fairies—C. and B. Henry, B. Quan, L. McNamara, E. Fores-tal, J. Kearney, N. O’Marra, L. Kiel, L. Harrison, M. Reynolds, F. Middleton, M. and K. Hutchinson, and L. McKinnon
Music—Piano,	F. Arrington
Address from Children of Mary,	E Ewing
Hymn to Our Lady of the Sacred Heart—Misses Smythe, Longs* dorf, Wood, and Lilly.
Votive Offering io Our Lady of the Sacred Heart—{Tableau].
Vocal Duett,	Misses Smythe and Davenport
Closing remarks by Rev. Guests.
Retiring March—“ Qui Vive,”	J. Walker and A. Borup
. TABLE OF HONOR, JR. DEP’T.
April 27th.—Misses L. Niel, L. Davis, A. Byrnes, K. and J. Hutchinson, 51. and B. Quan, I. Miller, M. Shannon, N. Price, N. Henry.
May 4th.—Misses R, Leoni, M. and J. Kearney, M. Kreutzer, A. Byrne, G. Darling, L. Harrison, N. Healy, A- Garrity, M. Reynolds.
May 11th.—Misses A. Clarke, N. Gross, M. McNamara, A Robson, L. Niel, L. Davis, M. Quan, B. Quan, 5L Reynolds.
May 18th.—Misses R. Leoni, M. Kearney, N. Healy, L. McNamara, L. Thomson, J. Kearney, K. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson, K. Hunt, N. O’Meara.
HONORABLE MENTION, PREF’y. DEP’T.
First Class.—Misses M. Kearney. Second Class.— Misses M. Quan, J. Kearney, A. Garrity. Third Class.—Misses G. Darling, K. Traynor.
First Class.—Misses L. Niel, A. Clarke. Second.—Misses L. Davis, M. Quan.
First Junior Class. Misses I. Miller, EL Hunt. First Class.—Misses M. Kearney. Secoud Class — Misses M. Quan, J. Kearney, A. Gairity.
First Class.—Miss L. Niel. Second Class.— Miss L. Davis. Third Class—Miss K. Hutchinson.
First Junior Class.—Misses M. Hutchinson, M. Reynolds.
First Class.—Miss M.'Kearney, Second Class.— Misses M. Quan, J. Kearney, A. Gariity.
First Class.—Miss L. Niel. Second Class — Miss L. Davis. Third Class.—Miss K. Hutchinson.
First Junior Class—Misses M. Hutchinson, I. Miller, B. Quan.
TABLE OF HONOR, SR. DEP’T.
May Sth.—Misses L. Marshall, M. Kellogg, M. Tuberty, S. O’Brien, J. Forbes, K. Robinson, A. Jennings, M. McBreen, M. Lacy, A. Hayes, M. Coffey, L. Sammon.
May 1st.—Misses M. Dillon, A. Millard, K. Carpenter, C. Foote, N. Burridge, L. and H. Conaty S. Carver, E. "Wilder, L. Pierce, E. Boyce, S. Earm
HONORABLE MENTION, SR. DEP’T.
Graduating Class.—Misses A. Mulhall, A. and E. Ewing, A. Cunnea, 51. Cook, G. Arrington, A, Carmody, C. Bertrand, E. Kirwin. First Senior Class.—Misses E. Linsday,K. Carpenter, C. Foote, B. Bryan, M. Kirwin, B. O'Neil, A. Locke, K. Young, N. Moriarty, E. Webber, M. Shanks, M. Edwards, A. Rhinehart, A. Millard. Second Sr. Class.—Misses JL Dillon, E. Henry, 31. Shetland, K. Parks, M. Murphy, S. O’Brien, Third Sr. Class.—Misses K. Zell, SI. Doty, J. Darcy, J. Walker, 31. Lange, 31. Bucklin, B. Randall, C. Eason, L. and E. Conaty, A. Borup, 31. Babm.
First Preparatory Class.—Slisses V. and J. Leoni, A. Slontgomery, S. Carver, F. Smith, F. and C. Sharp, L. Dooley, .A. Holman, N. Burridge, E. Shea, L. Boyce, J. Spencer.
Second. Preparatory Class.—Misses 31. Letourneau, L. 31cFarland, F. and R. Fox, E. Price, 31. Walker, 5L SfcCalL
Third Preparatory Class.—Misses J. Hoerber, L. Curran.	■
Graduating Class.—klisses A. Slulhall, A. Ewing, E. Ewing, A. Cunnea, J. Arrington, TT Carmody, C. Bertrand, 31. Cook, E. Kirwin. First Sr. Class.—Slisses E. Linsday, B O’Neil, F. 5Iess-more, M. Kirwan, A. Locke, K. Young, N. 5Iori-arty, J. Brown, M. Shanks, A. Rhinehart. Second Sr Class.—3Iisscs L. 3Iarshail, E. Henry, M. Tuberty, 31. Shetland, J. Hogue, 31. Kellogg, A. Hurst, K. Parks, M. JIurphy, B. Gardner, S. O’Brien, J. Forbes, N. Thompson, L. Ingersoll. Third Sr. Class.—Slisses A. 3Iast, M. Cochrane, K. Zell, 31. O’Toole, K. O’Toole, 3L Lasson, L Quaily, J. D’Arcy, J. Kinsella, J. Walker, M. Lange, G. Hurst, 31. Bucklin, It Randall, O. Eason, E. Conaty, L. Conaty, A. Borup, 3L Bahm, E. Boyce.
First Preparatory Class —"V. Leoni, J. Leoni, S. Carver, F. Smith, F. and C. Sharp, L. Dooley, A. Woods, A. Holman, 31. Stocker, N. Burridge, E. Shea, J. Spencer.
Second Preparatory Glass.—3IissesN. Landgraff, 31. Letourneau, 31. Carpenter, JI. Wicker, S. and R. Fox, C. Coles, J. Falvey, M. McBreen, L Wilder, A. Hayes, 31. Lacy, L. Price, M. Walker, L. Bishop, M. McCall. '
Third Preparatory Class.—5Iisses 51. Coffey, J. Hoerber, L. Beaupre, L. Curran.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
First Class.—Jlisses C. Foote, A. Mulhall, 51. Shetland. Second Div.—Misses J. Walker, A. Montgomery, 51. Kirwan, G. Arrington. Second. Class.—Misses Brown, Chamberlain, N. Thompson. Second Div.—5Iisses A. Clarke, K. Parks, K, Carpenter, 51. Foote. Third Class.—Slisses G. Hurst, C. Sharp, F. Sharp, 51. Carpenter, M. Lasson. Fourth Class.—5Iisses J. Hogue, L. Davis, C. Bertrand. 2d Div,—Jlisses B. Gardner, M. O’Toole. Fifth Class.—L. Bishop, 51. Kreutzer, L. McNamara. Second Div.—Jlisses McNamara, L. McFarland. Sixth Class.—Slisses K. Traynor, L. Qualy, A. Robson, 51. Wicker. Secoud Div.— 5Iisses N. Gross, R. Fox, A. Byrnes. 51. Quan, Seventh Class. 5Iisses 51. Stocker, B. Kinsella, J Hoerber. 8th Class.—A. Garrity, H. Hunt, 51, Hutchinson. Ninth Class.—5Iisses C. Healy, 51. Reynolds, B. Quan. Harp.—5Iisses C. Davenport, 51. Shetland. Guitar.—Miss Bates. Exercises.— 5Iisses K. Parks, M. Shetland, C. Davenport, IL Kirwan, M. Edwards, B. O’Neil.
Theoretical Class.—Misses A. Ewing, 51. Kellogg, J. Walker, C. Foote, B. Bryan, L. Chamberlain, A. Mulhall, 51. Walton, S. O’Brien, J. Spencer, K. Parks, A. Boruji, J. D’Arcy.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
Spring Arrangement.
iRAINS now leave South Bend as follows
GOING
Leave South Bend 11.32 a. m. “	“	2 3d p. m.
M	“	9 05 p m.
“	“	1237a m.
Accommodation 7 43 p. m.
GOING
Leave South Bend 136 p. nr. “	“	3 06	a	m.
“	“	4 20	a.	m.
“	“	4 34	p.	in.
Accommodation 6 35 a m.
EAST.
Arrive at Buffalo 4.10 a. m
Arrive at Elkhart
4 10 a ni 1 50 p.in 5 30 p. m 12.10 p.m
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 4 20p m **	“	6 50 a. in
«	“	7.20 a. m
M	M	810 p.m
“	“	10.3U a. m
Sinking connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
4®* Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
CHARLES F. HATCH, General Superintendent, Toledo.
C. P. Leland, General Passenger Agent, Toledo.
Hiram Brown, Agent, South Bend.
-	CROSSING.
Going North—Express passenger, 4.20 a. m., and 7:30p.m.;
Freight. 4:05 p m.
Going South—Express passenger, 11:13 a. m , and 6:20 p. m.
Freight, 4:50 a. m.
LAW DEPARTMENT
—OF THE—
TJnivei’sity of TSTotre Dame.
—:o:—
THE COURSE OF STUDIES embraces Ethics, Constitu
tional and International law. Con mon Law, Law of Contracts, Equity, Criminal Law, Evidence. Pleading and Practice The entire course is two years or four terms,, corresponding wi’h those of the other departments of t e University.
QUALIFICATIONS.—Every applicant for admission to the Law Department, must have at least a good English education and a fair knowledge of the sciences Graduates of c)&s«cial institutions are prelerred During the course, however, the law student, having the necessary qua ideations lor admiHHou, shall be afforded every facility for acquiring a knowledge of the classics.