Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce Quasi semper vIcItutus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 11, 1879.	Number 6.
[For the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.”]
Father Reville, O. P.
Died in Memphis, Tenn., Sept. 2Gth, 1879, of Yellow Fever, in the 39th year of his age.
[“ From his visits to the sick and dying, he had reached the priests’ house so sick that he went directly upstairs to bed, and after three days of suffering, expired—a lighted blessed candle in one hand and a crucifix in the other, clinging to both in a manner that showed that the apparent delirium of the last three hours did not unfit him for preparations to meet his Judge. Rev. Father Kelly had given him the last Sacraments immediately at the commencement of his illness, as Dr. Willett pronounced him thoroughly poisoned.” —From a Letter to a friend, dated at Memphis.']
Struck by the pestilence;
Gone from his labors hence;
Victim sublime!
Gone from the ripened field, White with its wondrous yield ;
Gone in his prime.
Great Father Revillo,
Warding the shafts away
From souls of youth, Showing the demon’s art Plied to enslave the heart, Turn it from truth.	'
k
V i
Y
Breaking the hidden snare, Laid to entrap us there;
Proving full well What folly sets at naught, What wisdom e’er hath taught:
Heaven and Hell.
O happy champion,
’ Now, that thy course is run, Well may we weep;
Weep, though thy thrilling word Still near and far is heard,
Truthful and deep;
Heard in remembered tones Even in distant zones,
In truth’s defense.
Dead? Nay! Thouspeakeststill;
Hearts at thy words shall thrill
Years and years hence.
Not in pursuit of fame, . Seeking an empty name,
Is genius crowned;
Not in the battle-strife, Reckless of human life, Are heroes found. . -
Nay, but where human hearts Learn earth’s sublimest arts, Learn Faith’s true power:
Sweetly life’s joys to spurn, That we may fully learn
God’s will each hour.
Ah! when the plague runs wild, Where souls unreconciled
Wait the dark land, He who doth rescue then, ’Mid all heroic men
As first must stand.
Oh, Father Revilld, Greater art thou to-day
Than when thy fame Rang from the nation’s heart, Faith glorying on thy part,
And in thy name!
Struck by the pestilence, Gone from thy exile hence,
Victim of Faith:
In thy example high, Men shall learn how to die, Conquering death.
An Essay on History. .
There is not, perhaps, a more agreeable and at the same time a more important study than that of history. But, aside from its agreeableness, the thorough knowledge of the facts of history is so apparently necessary to any and every intelligence, that it is useless to indulge any lengthened process of reasoning to establish its truth. .
History, as a branch or department of literature treating of public and private life, of the rise and fall of nations, has always been studied with interest and profit. It has been called “the witness of all ages, the torch of truth, the life of memory, the oracle of life, and the interpreter of the past.” It is a science which treats of man in all his social, religious, moral, commercial, political and literary pursuits, inasmuch as these are the results of general influences extending to large masses of men. History is usually divided into secular or profane, and ecclesiastical or Church history. It is intimately associated with whatever concerns the interests of mankind; its teachings wield an influence over man’s well-being, not only in this life, in this world, but likewise enlighten him as to the means necessary for securing his eternal happiness in the next.
Of all the studies that are cultivated—of all the studies that tend to show up human nature, to show us man in his intercourse with man; to give us an insight, on the
82	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
one hand, into the foibles to which fallen humanity is prone, and on the other to bring before us elevated human thought, a high, pure, and invigorating sphere of action, there is none probably that will, that can compare with history. History is the great medium through which we are brought into communication with the great spirits of other generations. It is, as it were, the link that unites the .present with the past; the means by which we are made familiar with the manners and customs of different peoples.
Frequehtly, indeed, we love to go back in spirit to the far distant past and commune with its mighty heroes. Frequently, too, we sit, in imagination, amid the mouldering and moss-covered ruins of cities that were once the pride of powerful nations, great centres of commerce and wealth, and contemplate the cause of their downfall. These reflections are salutary, and such as can be derived from the study of history alone. Its every page is filled with the concentrated wisdom of the great men who have preceded us. As a lantern is indispensable to one entering a long, dark and gloomy cave, so also is the light of history to the one who would peer through the Cimmerian darkness that envelopes and obscures the past.
History is, indeed, “ philosophy teaching by example.” In its pages we find tedious, and what would otherwise prove uninteresting, narrative clothed in all the attractive and graceful drapery that rhetoric can impart. The salient points of the human character are here portrayed in simple truth. It shows us, on the one hand, a nation prospering under the guidance of a wise and discreet ruler; on the other hand, under barbarous rule or grinding despotism, a nation’s commerce languishing, its agriculture decaying, and finally the lights of religion and science, which constitute a nation’s bulwark, becoming extinguished. All this and more does history show us; and like the compass which guides the mariner in his course upon the trackless ocean, enabling him to steer clear of the shoals and reefs that lie in his path, so also history points out to us the obstacles which impede a nation’s progress, and the causes which are apt to lead to a nation’s destruction.
Of profane history it might indeed be said that it would be unworthy of serious attention or serious study were it confined to the bare knowledge of ancient transactions, were it a mere inquiry into the eras when each of these happened, for it little concerns us to know that there were once such men as Alexander the Great, Cassar, Aristides, Hannibal, Cato, or even Demosthenes; that they lived in this or that particular period; that the empire of the Assyrians gave place to that of the Babylonians; that the latter made way for the empire of the Medes and Persians, who themselves were brought under subjection by the Macedonians, as these were afterwards by the Romans. But history is not confined to the mere recital of such events, of such occurrences ; no, it embraces a larger scope; there is in it a deeper philosophy than is implied in the mere arrangement of facts. As before stated, it is “ the witness of ages, the interpreter of the past” “ It is philosophy teaching by example.” It is an immense repository whence we may with little labor derive extensive knowledge, and draw many instructive and useful lessons. It would be safe to say that after religion there is, there can be no more important study than that of history. For, after the study of religion there is none better calculated to improve all the faculties of the soul. By it the memory is furnished with a multitude of interesting events; by it the judgment continually improves
from the assiduous attention given to objects well deserving of notice; by it the lessons of experience, so necessary in life, are easily acquired, because we appropriate to ourselves that of others, and thereby become wise.
History conduces also wonderfully to the improvement of the heart; its every page affords moral examples adapted. to the different stations and conditions of social life; everywhere it presents for imitation models of courage, of patriotism, probity, generous sentiments and heroic actions.
History, too gives us, in its record of the continual change and succession of kingdoms and empires, a very important instruction; for it very highly concerns us to know by what means those kingdoms or empires were founded; as, for instance, the Assyrians, Babylonians, Medes, Persians, and Romans; the steps by which they rose to the exalted pitch of grandeur we so much admire, what it was that constituted their true glory and felicity, and what were the causes of their decline and fall.
By the study of history we can familiarize ourselves with the manners of different nations; we can study attentively their genius, laws and customs; and especially acquaint ourselves with the character and disposition, the talents, virtues, and even vices, of those men by whom 'they were governed, and whose good or bad qualities contributed to the grandeur or decay of the states over which they presided.
These, then, are some of the great objects that history presents; exhibiting to our view all the kingdoms and empires of the world, and at the same time all the great men that were any way conspicuous; thereby instructing us by example, rather than precepts in the arts of empire and war, the principles of government, the rules of policy, the maxims of civil society, and the conduct of life that suits all ages and conditions.
There is to be acquired by this great study another knowledge of paramount importance, and which cannot but excite the attention of all persons who have a taste and inclination for polite learning—a knowledge of the manner in which the arts and sciences were invented, cultivated, and improved. We there discover and trace, as it were with the eye, their origin and progress, and perceive with admiration that the nearer we approach those places or those times in which the faithful children of God dwelt and lived, in the greater perfection we find the arts and sciences; and that they seem to have been either neglected or forgotten in those nations and by those peoples proportionately as they ignored or despised the controlling Hand of Divine Providence. However, there is in the study of profane history another object of infinitely greater importance which claims and arrests our attention; for although profane history on the whole treats only of nations as they imbibed all the chimeras of a superstitious worship, especially those nations that in ancient times had abandoned themselves to all the irregularites of which human nature, after the fall of the first man, became capable, it, nevertheless, proclaims universally the greatness of the Almighty, His power, His justice, and, above all, the admirable wisdom with which His Providence governs the universe.
If the inherent conviction of this last truth raised, according to Cicero’s observation, the Romans above all other nations, we may in like manner affirm that nothing gives history a greater superiority over many other branches of literature than to see. in a manner imprinted in almost every page of it, the precious footsteps and shining proofs of this great truth, namely, that God disposes
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	83
•r
-< *
k-
r
!> "
i.
all events as Supreme Lord and Sovereign; that He alone determines the fate of kings and the duration of empires; and that He, for reasons inscrutable to all but Himself, transfers the government of kingdoms, of empires, from one nation to another. We must, therefore, consider as an indispensable principle, and as the basis and foundation of the study of profane history, that the Providence of the Almighty has from all eternity appointed the establishment and duration of kingdoms and empires. But there is, as before remarked, a branch of history other than profane history, and this is Church history.
If history be “philosophy teaching by example,” that kind is undoubtedly the most excellent, and according to the great Archbishop Spalding, most important, whose teachings are the most elevated in their character, and important in their bearing. According to this principle, Church history is immeasurably superior to that which is secular or profane; for while the latter is a record of human events, together with the motives which impelled the merely human actors, and the influence of their actions upon society and the world, the former treats of the establishment and varied fortunes of a Divine institution, founded in this world “but not of this world.” The interests connected with secular history are limited to time, to this world; those associated and bound up with Church history reach and even embrace eternity. The teachings of the former tend, as we have seen, to promote man’s well-being in this world; those of the latter enlighten him as to the means necessary for securing his eternal happiness in the next.	'
These suggestions should suffice to bring before any intelligent mind the importance and of history, of Church history especially, and the advantages that may be derived from a careful study of it. It is, however, to be regretted that the. majority of young persons ignore its importance, and spend the time which they should devote to this study in reading trashy novels which tend to clpud the mind, to impair the intellect, to corrupt the morals, and, finally, wholly unfit a young man for the stern realities of life; while, did they but employ their leisure moments in the reading of history, much solid benefit would be derived, and their minds would become stored with a general and useful information which would prove to'them in after life of value inestimable.	O’K.
High. Art.
The beautiful combination of the classic with the patriotic in art, is one that meets with our warmest sympathies both as patriots and men of culture. This is now becoming quite frequent—touchingly so, we should say. We have just returned from Von Tinterlein’s, and we there enjoyed a rich intellectual treat in beholding his designs, prepared for painting in fresco the ceiling of the grand hall in the new Academy of Music. The ceiling, as our readers are aware, is divided into three large compartments, the middle one being the largest. In this the principal subject is to be located: “Washington Receiving the Homage of the Nine Muses.” The likeness of the General is of course unmistakable. He is depicted sitting under a lofty baldachino in the Blue Room of the White House, his buff Continental knee-breeches emerging coquet-tishly from the folds of the classic toga in which our artist has draped him. At his feet, with her roll unfolded, stylus
in hand, sits Clio, apparently taking down the story of his exploits as dictated by those sacred lips that “never told a lie.” In front stands Urania, pointing out by the aid of a portable celestial globe the place in the zodiac reserved for the hero after death. He does not appear to be paying much attention to either of them, however, but his expression of countenance indicates that he is about to administer a severe rebuke to Erato, who is leaning, seemingly with undue familiarity, over the back of his arm-chair. In this he is vigorously seconded by Melpomene, who has let down her back hair, and is flashing indignant glances upon the offender. Thalia and Terpsichore are performing acrobatic feats in the foreground, while Polyhymnia and Euterpe are organizing a Church Choir Pinafore troupe in the middle distance. Lastly, Calliope, withdrawing a curtain, discloses the broad waters of the Potomac, upon which a steamboat is approaching, bearing the musical instrument to which her name has been given. This beautiful centrepiece, grand as it is in composition and design, is ably supported by the side pieces which fill the other two compart-.ments. That on the right represents “Grant Adorned by the Graces.” AglaTa is twisting his moustache; Thalia is pinning a bouquet of fuschia and heliotrope in his buttonhole, and Euphrosyne is lighting him a fresh cigar. The artist has happily introduced the figure of Mrs. Grant entering unexpectedly, and gazing on the scene with feelings of mingled alarm and suspicion. The remaining compartment shows us “Hayes Pursued by the Harpies.” Von Tinterlein has somewhat departed from classic usage in providing the fiercest of the Harpies with an accordeon instead of a harp. The substitution is judicious, however, for even in unskilful hands the accordeon far exceeds the harp as an instrument of torture. Another of the Harpies— Celaeno—we think, is striking her harp with a live cat, which she swings around by the tail. Mrs. Hayes, armed with a broomstick and the temperance pledge, rushes to the front, making frantic but ineffectual efforts to protect her husband. Hayes himself does not appear, but his flying figure is merely indicated by the extremities of his coat tails extending horizontally into the field of view. Von Tinterlein is a young and promising artist, and he traces the success he has already achieved to the lessons of piety imbibed when a child at his mother’s knee. Let all our young men take up linear drawing, and then go and do likewise. Industry is open to all, and industry is the parent of success.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The Spectator pronounces Thackeray “ one of the two or three great names that the century has given to letters.”
—The Abbe Liszt’s epilogue to his symphonic piece Tasso has been produced at Weimar with the greatest success.
—Mme Gerster will come out in the Germania on her next voyage, and intends to take a month’s rest here before beginning her season, Nov. 20.
—Gen. Sherman’s third daughter. Miss Ellie, is engaged to be married to a young naval officer named Thackeray, who is a relative of the great novelist.
—The Rev. F. Ryder, of the Birmingham Oratory, is at work on a historical inquiry into the subject of the condemnation of Pope Honorius for heresy.
—The fiftieth anniversary of the publication of the first work of Josephus Ignatius Krasgewski, a polish author and poet, was celebrated Friday, Sept 26th.
I
84
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—A Catholic Seminary for .the education of priests—an institution never heard of before in the Russian capital— was opened a few weeks ago in St. Petersburg.
—The answer given by a certain new and brilliant student, when asked about the dead languages, was that he guessed they were killed by being studied too hard.
—An Acquisition at the Louvre.—By-a bequest of M. Sampayo the Louvre has acquired the celebrated portrait of the Comtesse Regnaud de St. Jean d’Angely, by Gerard.
—The literary twins, Erckmann-Chatrian, have asked M. Selleneck, the present leader of the famous band of the Garde Republicaine, to write the music for an .operetta which they have planned.
—From the city of Arezzo, the birthplace of one of the heroes of music, Guido d’Arezzo, has issued a call for subscriptions for a monument to the great musical inventor and theorist. The city has donated the site, which is valued at $80,000.
—The celebrated Parisian Caricaturist “Cham” died on Saturday last at the Rue Nollet, after six weeks’ illness. Amedee de Noe, always known as “Cham,” was-born in Paris on Jan. 26,1819. His father was the Comte de Noe, a peer of France.
• —“Ah, me,” sighed a rising young genius, throwing down his pen and leaning back wearily, “you don’t know how much pleasanter and easier it is to read these little poems of mine than it is to write them.” Sympathetic but awkward friend—“ Gad, how you must suffer, then 1”
—“Bernadette—Soeur Marie Bernard,” is the last published work of M. Henri Lasserre, and was issued from the press of Palme, Paris, a few weeks ago. An English translation of the book is announced as shortly to appear at Notre Dame.
—A merchant sitting in his office in New York, recently received an answer to a dispatch that had been sent to Shanghai, China, six hours previously. As Shanghai is 36,000 miles distant from New York, the message (not making allowance for the time taken in its delivery at the two cities,) must have travelled at the rate of one hundred miles a minute.
—Many of our weekly papers are publishing the series of brilliant lectures on Science and Revealed Religion lately delivered by Rt Rev. Bishop Vaughan, of Sydney, New South Wales. We are shortly promised the work in pamphlet form in the Vatican Library Series, by Hickey & Co., and by Kelley & Piet, of Baltimore. It is an erudite work, and cannot be too widely circulated.
—Pope, the poet, was very small and deformed. One day, when young Lord Hyde was disputing with him on some literary question, Pope said in a most scornful manner: “You try to argue, and you do not even know what an interrogation point is.” “Pardon me,” replied Lord Hyde, “it is a little figure, distorted and crooked, that sometimes puts disagreeable and impertinent questions.”
—Rev. Dr. Pabisch, formerly President of Mt. St. Mary’s Seminary, near Cincinnati, died at Mt. Hope Retreat, near Baltimore, Oct. 2d. Dr. Pabisch was known not only for his holiness and zeal, but also for his learning and marked ability as a theologian and historian, having taken a prominent part in the translation of Dr. Alzog’s Ecclesiastical History, in 3 vols.,—a work in itself of great value and merit.
—Photographs of Cardinal Newman, of really delightful excellence, have just been produced by the Messrs. Barraud and Jerrard, of 96, Gloucester Place, Portman Square. Better likenesses of his Eminence no one could desire. They are perfectly easy in their pose, and perfectly natural in their expression. The gentle, kindly face, the thoughtful, saddened eyes, the venerable head, are all shadowed forth with magical vraisemblance.
—Wagner is still distressed for want of money to establish. his proposed musical conservatory at Bayreuth. This school he intends to be, like himself, his theories, and music, extraordinary and original to the last degree. It is to teach his style and perpetuate his views, and he designs' inaugurating it, when he gets that far, with his long-prom
ised musical drama or Wagnerian opera of “Percival,” "« which is expected to carry out his harmonious ideas to a further point than even the most pronounced of his previous works. He has, so far, been disappointed in regard to financial means, and the opening will not take place at the time proposed.	r
—On last Tuesday evening, Sept 30, the lady members . of St. Jarlath’s Church, Chicago, gave a concert for the bene-	.
fit of the poor of the parish. The programme was a varied	x
one, consisting of songs, solos, duets and recitations. The principal feature of the evening was the duet entitled “ Holy Mother, guide his footsteps,” which was rendered in an admirable manner by the Misses Mary and May Guth, two talented young West-side ladies, who have attained quite , a reputation for their vocal abilities. A piano duet by the Misses Fitzgerald was very neatly executed, and a recitation by little Miss Minnie Markham, entitled “ I’m Little, but Oh, My!” elicited applause from those present.	,.
—Colonel d’Haymerle, formerly military attache to the * Austrian Embassy to the Quirinal, and brother to the Austrian ambassador to the king, has written a book entitled “Res Italic®,” in which he gives the result of many	<
years’ observation of the movement of the Italia irredenta	(
associations. This book is the more important inasmuch as it contains information supplied by the ambassador himself. It has been printed in the Austrian official and military journals. According to the author, this revolutionary movement is deeper and more serious than is generally supposed, and Colonel d’Haymerle does not hesitate to make the Italian Government and its agents responsible for the Italia irredenta.
—Baron Isidore Taylor, who died in Paris a fortnight i ago, at the age of 90, has for many years been famous among those who know rare and sumptuous books, and also for a splendid work of his on the scenery^and antiquities of France. Its title is “Voyages de l’Ancienne France.” It comprises twenty-seven large royal folio volumes, and occupied a half a century in its production. Though begun in 1820, it was not completed until 1870. One thou- i sand parts were issued, at $2.50 a part, making the entire . cost of the work about $2,500. The lithographic plates comprised in its number several thousand. Perfect sets of it are now rare, and-imperfect ones it is practically impossible to complete. There is only one copy of the work 1 in America.
—The first stone of Cologne Cathedral was laid on August
15,1248. The 631st year of its building was completed on , the 15th of last month, and it is hoped that the next anni-	*'
versary will really see the finishing of the great minster. ] The two towers have now reached their last stage, and have only to be fitted with their massive caps of solid stone- , work. For this purpose two great scaffoldings have to be erected, at a dizzy height; one of them, however, approaches	'
completion. When the caps have been finished, then a still higher story will have to be added to the scaffoldings, 4 in order to fix on the tops of the caps the gigantic foliated crosses, almost 30 feet high, which are to crown the towers. This operation will, it is expected, be performed next spring.—Catholic Universe.
—In 1853 the J esuit missionaries established a press for . printing Oriental works at their University College of Beyrout, in Syria. Grammars, dialogues, handbooks of travel, 7 talks in French, Arabic and Turkish, as well as Syriac rit-	'
uals and breviaries, besides a weekly review in Arabic •	1
called the Beclcir, have issued from this press. And now 1 the indefatigable Fathers are laboriously publishing a Bible ' in Arabic. Its beautiful type and exquisite vignettes make it a bibliographical luxury. The translation is new; it is made by the Jesuits at the request of the Syrian Bishops and Latin Patriarch, and has their approbation. It has been chiefly designed to counteract the evil effects pro- ’ duced by the falsified versions distributed broadcast in Syria by English and American Bible societies. Native men of letters pronounce the gtyle of the new version to be excellent, while the French Consul-General at Constantino- z pie, Monsieur Bellin, an Arabic scholar of note, says that it is “ at once clear and simple, exact and elegant.”
—The well-known spot on which William Tell’s Chapel stood, at the foot of the Axenstrasse, on the Vierwaldstatter, x Sea, is now a scene of desolation. Every vestige is gone
v I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
85
I'
'A
Z *•
V
k
v
of the building, which has probably been more frequently painted and engraved than any other in Switzerland. The workmen have laid the foundation of the new chapel, and the painter selected—Ernst Stiickelberg, of Basel—is at work on his designs for the frescoes of the new building. Herr StQckelberg has spent some time in the Forest Cantons making studies of types of character for his pictures. The results of these studies are exhibited in the new Art Museum at Berne. The thirty-three types, as he calls his fine portrait studies, are not only artistically but ethnographically conscientious, and are equally free from a conventional and an ideal handling. Indeed, they are so good as severely realistic portraits that one fears lest the compositions in which they are to be introduced should not come up to the high standard suggested by these heads.
—The poems of the late Robert Stephen Hawker have been collected and arranged by Mr. J. G. Godwin, with a portrait and prefatory memoir, and published by Mr. C. Kegan Paul. Mr. Hawker, as is well known, was the Protestant Rector of Morwenstow, a lonely village on the wild coast of Cornwall, but was received into the Catholic Church the evening before he died, a little more than four years ago. All his long life he was a poet, and a true one, in spite of the fact that he took the Newdegate prize when he was at Oxford. His works have won the warmest praise from such various judges as Sir Walter Scott, Lord Macaulay, Charles Dickens, and Longfellow—the latter regarding him a few years ago as the greatest of living English poets. Why his verses are not more widely popular is one of those literary mysteries of which there are so many. They bear judgment by loftiest standards, yet are simple enough to be appreciated by less cultivated tastes; they contain delicate humor and deep pathos, science and sentiment,and through all of them runs a chord of vivid faith, rarely found in “ the poetry of the period.” Moreover, in reading such poems as that on the death of Cardinal Wiseman, it is difficult to realize that the writer was not all his life a devoted member of the Catholic Church. Mr. Hawker’s poems ought to have a wide circulation among the professors of that creed to which he was formally reconciled at the close of. his picturesque and many-sided life.	/
—Concerning the Irish scholars of the fifth and sixth centuries, the Rev. Maurice Ronayne, S. J., writes in his book on “Religion and Science”: “The apostle of the Irish, with a lofty view which embraced the future as well as the present, determined that the Church which, with God’s grace, he was about to found, should be learned as well as holy. With that view, Colgan tells us,1 Patrick sent Olcon, burning with zeal for knowledge, to pursue the higher studies in Gaul (discendi aviditate ardentem 01-conum, altiorum studiorum causa, misit Patricius in GaUias), where he made fruit in sacred letters and in all the best kind of literature, so that on his return to his country he might open public schools and become the teacher of many prelates and masters.’ The statesmanlike plan of forming a truly Christian normal school produced its results in a few generations. Ireland became enriched with monastic colleges; students from every European nation flocked to her shores in quest of knowledge, and all branches of learning were taught by her masters with such renown that for centuries she was looked upon as the University of. Europe. The classics of Greece and Rome were cultivated in the cloisters of Bangor, of Armagh, and of Lismore, and ascetic scholars dwelt with delight over the dialectics of Aristotle, as well as over the poetry of Homer and the eloquence of Cicero. On this point a testimony above suspicion is that of M. Haurean, the brilliant and erudite freethinker, in his ‘ History of Scholastic Philosophy.’ ‘ If the history of the Irish schools be obscure, what we do know of it is all the more astonishing. In the sixth century there is a region of old Europe where the tradition of the Latin letters and the Greek letters has been preserved, where multitudes of young Christians sit at the feet of masters who teach them to understand not only Virgil but Homer, and this region is Ireland.’ ”
—An unsuccessful inamorato was asked by what mischance he lost his divinity ? “ Alas!” said he, “I flattered her until she grew.too proud to speak to me.”
Scientific Notes.
—Paper is now substituted for wood in Germany in the manufacture of lead pencils. It is steeped in an adhesive liquid, and rolled round the core of lead to the requisite thickness. After drying, it is colored, and resembles ordinary cedar.
—Prof. Sachau started for the East on the 1st of September, to explore and visit different sites of interest, though collecting and excavating do not enter into his programme. He has a grant from the Prussian Government for the expenses of his tour.
• —Propagating sponges by cutting the live ones into small pieces, attaching them to lumps of rock and sinking them to proper depths in suitable places is proposed by a Prof. Schmidt. He thinks in three years they will be marketable and yield a handsome profit.
—Dr. Peterson, a German tourist, lately reached the highest point of the Jungfrau, 2,828 feet He was rewarded by an hour of clear sky. He declares that he could see the whole chain of the Alps, from the furthest Tyrol to Dauphine, including Mont Blanc and the other southern giants.
—Lord William Beresford has lost a horse in Africa by poisoning with tea. A staff cook having left several pounds of tea in a sack, a Kaffir groom filled it with corn, and serving out the contents to a troop of horses, gave Beresford’s charger the bulk of the tea, which was eaten greedily. The horse shortly commenced to plunge around, threw himself down and beat his head so furiously on the ground that they concluded to kill him.
—A newspaper correspondent says: “ For the past ten years we have treated felons with hot water with unerring success. No cutting, no blistering, no anything but immersing the finger, hand, or even the whole arm if necessary, in water as hot as can be borne, until the pain is -gone and the core is loosened and drawn from the bone. When rusty nails have produced wounds, the same course has been tried. If on the hand or foot keep it in hot water.
—The Mammoth Cave has been purchased by a company of Eastern captalists for §200,000. The interior will be illuminated with electric light, and telegraph wires will afford communication between all parts ot the cave and the outer world. The walks will be improved; new boats will be launched on the subterranean river, and a restaurant will be opened in one of the .chambers several miles from the entrance. The railroad from Glasgow Junction to the cave will be completed.
—Prof. Nordenskjold is a man of few words. When he got to Yokohama the other day, he telegraphed his congratulations to the patron of his expedition, the King of Sweden; then he sent this pithy little message to his . proud wife: “Anna Nordenskjold, Stockholm.—All well. Adolph.” Curiously enough, both telegrams arrived at Stockholm at exactly the same hour as they were handed in at Yokohama, the seven hours which the transmission occupied representing exactly the difference of time at the respective places.
—The late Dr. Guthrie, of Scotland, was a strong temperance man. On one occasion he expressed his opinion of whiskey in these words: “ Whiskey is good in its own place. There is nothing like whiskey in this world for preserving a man when he is dead. But it is one of the worst things in the world for preserving a man when he is living. If you want to keep a dead man, put him in whiskey; if you want to kill a living man, put whiskey into him.” Many have learned to their eternal undoing the effect of putting whiskey into a living man.—W. IK. Chronicle.
—Recently a little girl living in Paris was bitten on the hand by a mad dog. She soon exhibited signs of hydrophobia. Two Russian physicians, Drs. Schmidt and Lede-ben, made the little patient inhale three cubic feet of oxygen. It is said that by this means all the symptoms disappeared in an hour and a half and the child remained calm. Two days afterwards the malady returned in all its distressing characteristics—difficulty in breathing and swallowing. A fresh inhalation of oxygen was tried, and
86’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
at the end of forty-five minutes the attack subsided never to return. .	•	-
—There are at the present time nearly 100,000 miles of telegraph lines in the United States (excluding railway) involving the use of about 250,000 miles of wire. There are over 10,000 officers, and during the past year nearly 30,000,000 of messages have been sent. The receipts were nearly 12,000,000 dols., and the expenses about 7,000,000. Next to the United States, Russia has the most extensive system of telegraph lines, namely, 58,000 miles; Italy comes next, with 46,000 miles; next France, with 34,000; Great Britan has about 26,000 miles, and Germany 24,000 miles.
—Sponges.—The coarse, soft, flat sponges, with large pores and orifices in them, come from the Bahamas and Florida. The finer kind, suitable for toilet use, are found in the Levant; the best on the coast of northern Syria, near Tripoli, and secondary qualities among the Greek isles. These are either globular or of a cup-like form, with fine pores, and are not easily torn. They are got by divers plunging from a boat, many fathoms down, with a heavy stone tied to a rope for sinking the man, who snatches the sponges, puts them into a net fastened to his waist, and is then hauled up. Some of the Greeks, instead of diving, throw short harpoons attached to a cord, having first spied their prey at the bottom through a tin tube with a glass bottom immersed below the surface waves.
—Seaweeds.—There was a time, not very long ago when seaweeds were the most despised of vegetable life, when professors of botany ignored them, tossed them aside as children’s playthings, and only mentioned them as lowest in the scale of creation, if not absolutely noxious. The epicure, however, found out that one seaweed made an appetising sauce. The Englishman calls it laver, the Irishman sloke, Hie Scotchman sladk, and the scientific name is porphyra. But all agree in dressing it with lemon-juice, spices, and butter, and like it well. Most people know how excellent for invalids is jelly made from the carrageen, or Irish moss. It abounds on all the coast as Chonduis-crispus, and sold at one time as high as two shillings and sixpence per pound because it was a fashionable dish for invalids. No seaweed, however, is more useful and interesting than the very brown common seaweed that is passed by as useless for the album, and of no beauty whatever; and yet its fructification is of the highest order, and its importance to the agriculturist so great as to render it very precious to the Channel Islands, Ireland, and Scotland.	•
—Two millions of eucalyptus trees have been planted in Algeria. The French Government has granted a subvention to a company for the planting of a yet larger number. In Corsica more than a million trees have been planted. In Cyprus 30,000 have already been planted by the British authorities in the fever-infested localities. The Italian Government is planting a forest of these miasma-absorbing trees on the Campagna, in the vicinity of Rome. Prince Troubetkey thinks the Eucalyptus amygdalina is the most useful variety of the tree. It is very picturesque and of remarkably rapid growth. Plants grown in pots, and replanted at the age of six months, have attained in eight years a height of 17 metres. Its leaves contain six times as much volatile oil as those of the Eucalyptus globulus. It grows as well in a damp as in a dry and exposed soil. It bears cold very well, having resisted a temperature of 21 deg. Fahrenheit in a villa near Rome. It has lately been asserted that the beneficial influence of the Eucalyptic is not owing to any absorbing power in the foliage but in the root. Similiar, though not equal, advantages are said to be derived from planting the willow and other quickgrowing trees in malarial districts.
—A Nation Ruined by a Spider.—Spiders crawling more abundantly and conspicuously than usual upon the indoor walls of our houses foretell the near approach of rain, but the following anecdote intimates that some of their habits are the equally certain indication of frost being at hand. Quartermaster Disjonval, seeking to beguile the tedium of his prison hours at Utrecht, has studied attentively the habits of the spider; and eight years of imprisonment had given him leisure to be well versed in its 1 ways. In December of 1794 the French army, on whose '
success his restoration to liberty depended, was in Holland, and victory seemed certain if the frost, then of unprecedented severity, continued. The Dutch envoys had failed to negociate a peace, and Holland was despairing, when the frost suddenly broke. The Dutch were now exulting, and the French generals prepared to retreat, but the spider warned Disjonval that the thaw would be of short duration, and he knew that this weather monitor never deceived. He contrived to communicate with the army of his countrymen and its generals, who, duly estimating his character, relied upon his assurance that within a few days the waters would again be passable by troops. They delayed their retreat. Within twelve days the frost had returne'd—the French army triumphed, Disjonval was liberated, and a spider had brought ruin on the Dutch nation. ■
—The convenience of stem-winding watches and their many advantages over the old-fashioned key-winders has made them deservedly popular, and it is not surprising that people dispose of their key-winders at the first opportunity and invest in the improved style. _But there are many persons who have time-pieces that are very valuable, -and to which they have become attached as people will become attached to articles of personal property, and rather than exchange them for a new piece, on which they must take their chances for possessing the virtues of the old companion, they cling to them and with all their faults love them still. We take pleasure in stating, however, that for these cases there is a remedy, and one right here at home, in the mechanical skill of Mr. E. Buysse, the jeweller, who has mastered all the difficulties attending the transformation of a key-winder into a stem-winder, and in the most artistic manner, just as he does all other work entrusted to him. He has just completed this change in a very fine gold watch, valued at $300, and the machinery supplied works to perfection. The watch is now on exhibition at Mr. Buysse’s jewelry store, in the Register building. It is proper to add in this connection, that Mr. Buysse is one of the very few watch-makers in this country who can do this work, and the consequence is that he is receiving orders for the change of watch-winding apparatus from all over the country.—South-Bend Baily Register.

Books and Periodicals.
—The Agents' Herald, a paper published by the Agents’ Publishing Co., in the interest of canvassers and book agents, gives some useful and spicy things.
—The American Agriculturist for October is replete with information for the various departments of farming, gardening, stock raising etc., and gives plentiful illustrations of various matters pertaining thereto. Published by the Orange Judd Co., 245 Broadway, New York, at $1.50 a year.
—Announcement.—M. Henri Lasserre’s last work, "■Bernadette—Sozur Marie Bernard,"—was issued in Paris in the early part of September last. Very Rev. Father Sorin having received an early copy with the author’s compliments, hopes to have the book in an English dress for American readers in a few weeks. The work of trans- ‘ lating is nearly finished, and the book will be handsomely printed and issued in cheap form.	■
—The October number of Church’s Musical' Visitor, has been received, and, we are happy to say, keeps up to its standard, which is that of a most excellent musical monthly. The contributed portion is filled with several articles highly entertaining and instructive, while the editorials, correspondence and short notes are none the less interesting. Besides this, its music pages furnish a most liberal supply of new and beautiful pieces. John Church & Co., Cincinnati, O., publishers.
—The Earlhamite, No. 1, Vol. VII, comes to our table this week. We return its kindly greeting, and thank it for the good word it says for the Scholastic. We feel sure president Corby and the Faculty will join us in the sentiment when they are aware of Earlhamite’s kind-spoken greeting to the new Notre Dame and wishes for its future success and extended usefulness. After thus speaking of the friendly stranger, it may be supposed that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	87
r \	we would be lenient in criticising any shortcomings be' i	trayed in the columns of The Earlhamite. We candidly
j ;	confess it, we do not like to find fault, but we cannot
I	forego our duty when a mistake should be corrected. As
(	regards The Earlhamite, however, we have no fault to find
'	—at least not at present, as regards matter; as to our vis'	itor’s make-up, it is very neat—in the best of taste. Shall
■v	we describe it ? Well, it is of octavo or general magazine
:	size, 32 pages, with a neat-drab or tea-colored cover;
□5	body, of fine tinted paper, super-sized and calendered,
|	printing clear, from a good-sized old-style type, neat an!	tique headings. Like ourself, there is no redundance
of editors—only two, assisted by a staff of three persons. We hope they have more time to devote to editorial labor than ourselves—some of us at least. Only young college folk know the difficulties of editing a college paper. At all events, the Earlhamite staff get up a neat and ably-edited paper. “Three Broken Lyres” (poetry), by T. H. L., leads the present number. It is an exceptionably good piece—above the common—though somewhat open to criticism here and there. The other literary articles— “ Along the Columbia,” III, by S. J. Spray; “ The Beauti-■	ful,” by Rev. C. B. Smith; “ Pike’s Peak,” 0. H. B.; and
k	“ Archaeology at Home,” are all good; Rev. Mr. Smith’s
is a beautiful pen-sketch, decked with something as far A superior to empty flowers of rhetoric as natural moss-roses ’ are to those which are merely artificial. It is a little gem, . such as is not written or seen every day, and least of all in * a college paper—where it should be expected, but where want of time for reflection and study generally forestalls its appearance. The usual personals, locals, literary and exchange notes complete the paper. The locals are . .neither as spicy nor pungent as those of college papers generally, but the local editor candidly acknowledges that he was never noted for wit or humor. He knows enough not to make a fool of himself, however; he has good sense, and does not allow self-conceit to run away with him, like some local editors that we have known.
,	- —The Farm and Fireside, now entering upon its third
’ year of publication, is an admirably well-edited paper, and one which we can recommend not only to those of our readers who are engaged in agriculture or horticulture, but which can be read with pleasure as well as profit by r the general reader. It is, therefore, not for the mere for' mality of the thing, and because it would be likely to attract attention, that the word Fireside is included in the ’ title of the paper, for a large proportion of its contents give it an honest claim, and a strong one, to its being ‘ considered a useful periodical for the home and fireside, for the young as well as for the old and experienced. The Farm and Fireside, we are glad to see, is using its powerful . influence to dissipate the erroneous impression so prevalent i among people generally that a thorough education is not necessary to the practical agriculturist, and that main strength and stupidity, backed by energy and perseverance, are all that is necessary to the young man who wishes to become a successful agriculturist. Agriculture is a science, and although the old qualifications of main strength, energy, and perseverance are necessary, yet they cannot of themselves give a young man all that is required for making the most of the facilities at his command. The great power that a thorough knowledge of physics, chemistry, '!	botany, zoology, and geology give the agriculturist has too
long been held out of sight, and the assertion that a liberal
■ V education unfils a young man for agricultural and horticultural pursuits is a mistaken one. They are a necessity to anyone wishing to obtain success in these callings, and the fact that a few have obtained this success without theoretical study of those departments of science does not gainsay their usefulness. Farming is a noble occupation, and with a good education a practical farmer can r beautify his place in a manner to command the envy even of the most opulent of the inhabitants of our great cities.
• The neglect of this, and of the education that gives a cultivated taste, is what belittles agricultural pursuits in the minds of young people. Some of the greatest geniuses that have graced the world in ancient or modern times came from the farm—were either practical farmers themselves or the sons of farmers, and the emasculation of many of the would-be great men of to-day is owing to the lack of <sturdy independence possessed by the tillers of the soil.
To the end of his long and busy life, Daniel Webster retained the love of the country and of farming which he acquired in his childhood. It was always with joy that he returned from the scenes of his public labors and triumphs to his cosy home at Marshfield and his well-tilled fields at' Franklin. The quiet pursuits.of the farm; the planning of his crops; the rearing of his cattle, his sheep, his pigs and hens; the improvements in cultivating lands; the care of his horses,—all interested the great statesman fully as keenly as graver questions of state, and oratorical victories at the Capitol. One day, he asked his son Fletcher and a friend who was visiting him to go out with him to the barn and see his cattle. He fed them with delight, and turning to his companions with a smile, said: “I like this. I had rather be here than in the Senate. It is better company.” When at Washington, engaged in absorbing duties as Senator or Secretary of State, he seldom let a day pass without writing to his farm-overseers at Marshfield and Franklin, telling them just what to plant and what to plow, what horses to buy, and what cattle to sell. Webster discovered the value of kelp, or seaweed, as a rich manure for land, and brought it into general use in his neighborhood. He was probably as skilful a farmer as lived in New England, and showed the same wisdom in this as in public affairs.
We recommend the reading of agricultural and horticultural papers and magazines; they give a love for the country, for home life, and cultivate a stability of character. Therefore it is that we have frequently spoken in praise of the American Agriculturist, and now recommend the Home and Fireside. We congratulate Mr. Crowell, the manager, and Mr. T. J. Kirkpatrick, the editor, of the latter periodical, on the really able paper they give their readers. The Farm and Fireside is published semi-monthly by P. P. Mast & Co., Springfield, Ohio, for the small sum of 50 cents a year.
Society Notes.
—The St. Cecilians tender their thanks to Bro. Fidelis for favors.
—The Philodemics, Thespians and Columbians did not hold their regular meetings on Tuesday night.
—The St. Cecilians tender Rev. L. L’Etourneau, C. S-0., a unanimous vote of thanks for his present of a fine canarybird.
—Roberts’ Rules of Order have been adopted by all the literary societies of the University. Those who desire copies can procure them at the students’ office.
—The 6lh regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place Oct. 7th. Declamations were delivered by C. Tinley, J. O’Neill, J. Weitzel, E. Orrick, T. Quinn, A. Mergentheim, E. Otis, G. Orr, J. Gibbons, and F. Philips.
—The 4th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association took place Monday, Oct 6th. Masters Carter, Kelly, Rettig, and Cole were admitted to membership. Selections were given by Masters O. Farrelly, Cssta-neflo, Wedder, Devitt, H. Devitt, Seeger.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held last Tuesday evening, Oct. 7th. Masters G. Tourtillotte, J. Courtney, and C. Garrick delivered declamations. Masters A. Schmuckle and F. Mattes spoke a comic dialogue. Masters H. Snee, G. Van Mourlck and G. Woodson enlivened the meeting with some good songs.	’
—The 18th regular meeting of the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held on Wednesday, Oct., 8th. There were present on the occasion, Rev. Father Gleeson, C. S. C., Mr. J. Scherer, C. S. C., Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., Bros. Eugene, Philip, Hilarion, Onesimus, and Hippolytus, C. S. C. Essays were read by Master James Fenton on “St. Clotilda, Queen of France”; by Master James Ward, on “Processions.” The essays showed careful study. Rey. Father Gleeson gave the ten-minute instruction. At this meeting Masters T. Arthur, A. Brown and T. Victory were elected members of the Sodality.
88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Notre Danie, October 11, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip oi the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct. '	”	•
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.	'
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE, DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—The editor of the Scholastic is in receipt of a second communication from “ M.” reviewing the Diocesan School Board Report, which ’ will appear next week. If all who should be interested in this matter had half the zeal of our esteemed and reverend correspondent, there would soon be a change for the better in the general education of the masses. Apostasies would soon become few in comparison with the number now annually lost to the Faith for want of proper instruction, the prisons would have at least one of the many sources of supply cut off, youth would be instructed in the saving and all-consoling doctrines of Christianity, poverty would be blessed with the spirit of happy contentment prevailing among the faithful of the poor or laboring classes in Europe, and the face of things would soon become changed for the better. The false idea prevalent that wealth brings happiness, and that without wealth there can be no happiness, is the canker-worm that is now gnawing at the vitals of society. Wealth has become a bone of contention between the rich and the poor; its greed has banished happiness from the ranks of the former, and its absence from those of the latter, without the possession of those consoling truths of religion that more than supply its place and bring a happy contentment far more precious than all the gold and silver in the world.
St. Edward’s Day.
One of the brightest holidays of the scholastic year will soon be with us. The patronal feast of the founder of of Notre Dame is a day which successive generations of students have for the past thirty-five years celebrated with constantly increasing enthusiasm. Old students always recall it to memory as one of the most pleasant landmarks of their college life, and it has invariably been looked upon by newcomers as of sovereign efficacy in causing the last lingering vestiges of homesickness entirely to disappear.
And yet, much as the boys of ’79-’8O would like to make the celebration this year, on the occasion of the second foundation of Notre Dame, memorable amongst all others, they see to their great regret that one of the principal items on the programme, the public Exhibition, must necessarily be omitted. We doubt that the progress of any other building was ever looked for with greater impa-ence than that of the grand new Exhibition Hall, the foundations of which are now laying, and the Cecilians of today are certainly endowed with more virtue than generally falls to the lot of boys of their age if the 13th passes by without their casting envious glances .forward towards their more favored successors of ’80-’81.
The failure of the dramatic entertainment will, we know, only concentrate the more zeal and energy on the other exercises of the day, as all are anxious to show Very Rev. Father General that the sentiments of esteem, affection and veneration in which he has always been held by those who have lived under his care, or seen the results of his labors, are still unchanged and unchangeable.
r
F. k
4
A. .
Altar-Boys.
The office of an altar-boy is regarded by our Holy Mother the Church as one sacred and most favored, in so much that she allows him to perform such sacred duties as • were formerly granted only to those who had received ordination from a Bishop; and permits him to wear the cassock and surplice, which are vestments peculiar to the clergy.	'	‘
As the priest at the altar represents Jesus Christ to the « people, so the • altar-boys, kneeling about the altar, serving the priest, and bearing the burning torches, represent to the people the angels of God, who are invisibly present in the sanctuary. For as the angels serve Jesus, their King and their God, even so do the altar-boys serve the priest who represents Him and uses His words and His power. Hence the youth who aspires to be an altar-boy should realize his position, and strive to become worthy of his sacred calling, by keeping himself in the state of grace and innocence, and showing in his conduct the order and decorum which respect for the sanctuary requires. To become inspired with a love and reverence for the sublime office of serving at Mass, the altar-boy has but to observe the. high appreciation in which it was always held by • the saints of the Church. St Vincent de Paul was accustomed, after celebrating his own, to serve another Mass; a practice which he continued till the age of seventy years. He could not, without pain, consent to yield to the laity the right which belongs to the priests—to serve at the altar; a function which angels would glory in taking upon themselves, were it permitted them to do so.
A reflection, then, upon the dignity of his office 'should > bring to the mind of the young acolyte a realization of the great good that can be accomplished by him in the proper execution of its duties,—or, on the other hand, the sin that he may cause by his unbecoming conduct. For what can be more edifying, or what will arouse more readily feelings and thoughts of piety in a congregation, than to notice conduct on the part of those assisting at the altar which indicates a constant remembrance of their position and a desire to perform their task with all becoming modesty and respect? How different, oh the other hand, in its effects, is the contrary deportment! How disedifying and
-)
r


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	89
. distracting, not to say disgusting, to witness the approach ;	of some acolytes to the altar! They come straggling along
indifferently, some with arms folded, others staring all around the church; they kneel in a manner devoid of all propriety, perhaps decency. While sitting, they assume equally unbecoming positions, with their elbows resting on their crossed knees, and heads resting upon their :	hands, spend their time gazing around, or picking the
4	candles with their fingers—in a word, exhibiting in all
their movements and actions an entire want of care, or at least recollection of where they are or what they are doing. z	This description may seem overdrawn, but, nevertheless,
it is true; and how often do we not witness just such unbecoming behavior in the churches throughout our country! . now it is due to the holiness of the sanctuary that no such blemish should appear in its dignified ceremonies, and there fore a matter of sufficient importance to demand the strictest attention of the priest in this regard; and his love for God and regard for His Holy Temple should to him a pleasure " in training his altar-boys in a proper manner and instilling into their hearts that devout respect which would always *	insure the proper performance of duties. Not only this, but
r	his duty towards the youth requires it; for by not being
corrected in the beginning these careless habits, when the young man shall have grown up and occupies a seat out side of the altar-railing, will have been developed into an .	entire want of the respect and the pious and devout dis-
_ positions appropriate to the House of God. That there is * in our time an inclination, alas, too general, to careless and improper conduct during the different services of the Church, requires but a visit to most any of our churches to be realized, and we really believe it is entirely owing to want of care and strictness on the part of parents and ’ directors in the early instruction and discipline of the youth upon this point. A reflection, then, upon the ter.	rible and inevitable consequences of this incipient evil
should rouse them to greater care and energy in the future, > that they may by their combined efforts blot out this defect in the very beginning, and establish in its place a universal devotion and perfection in the extreme manifestation of faith, which will be in itself a means most powerful and practical in drawing the unbelieving to see, and seeing to embrace, the graces of the One True Church..
Personal.
—A. W. Arrington, ’70, we understand is visiting Leadville.
—Rev. Father Peter Lauth, ’64, is a frequent visitor at the College.
—H. Falkenbaugh, ’69, is married and doing well at Columbus, Ohio.
—We are glad to announce that Rev. Father Lilly is convalescing.
—G. and J. Ittenbach (Commercial), ’78, are in business with their father at Indianapolis.
—Rev. T. O’Sullivan, ’57, we learn is soon to leave Laporte. He will go to the diocese of Peoria.
—Rev. Father Marine, C. S. C., Vicar of the Province of Louisiana, spent a few days with his friends here last week.
—Very Rev. President Corby went to Watertown, Wis., Tuesday, on a visit to the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. '
—Joseph Lumley (Commercial), ’79, is clerking in a wholesale grocery house, near Front and Market Streets, Philadelphia.
—Dr. Cassidy, ’66, the first graduate in the Scientific Course here, pays his regular professional visits every day to the College.
—C. M. Proctor, ’75, the efficient city engineer, of Elkhart, visited us a few days ago, accompanied by his mother and sister.
—J. M. Coffey, ’75, has our thanks for several new subscribers. He is continuing his studies at St. Francis’ Seminary, near Milwaukee.
—Mr. Albert Koch (Commercial), ’72, is clerking for the Firm of Koch, Goldsmith & Co., at their immense clothing establishment in Cleveland, Ohio. -
—Geo. B. Saylor (Commercial), ’77, and also his brother, C. L. Saylor, ’76, are living in Antwerp, Ohio, both occupying the position of book-keeper with prominent firms of that place.
—J. Spillard, ’72, was lately married to Miss Julia Dennehey, at Elgin, Ill. On his bridal tour he paid Notre Dame a short visit. We wish the young couple a happy voyage through life.
—Capt. Woodson, U. S. A., accompanied by his wife, visited their son Guy last week. Mrs. A. Tourtilotte, of Toledo, and Mrs. Roberts, of Michigan City, were among the visitors here Saturday and Sunday.
—W. Meyers, “ Jersey,” ’76, called to see us on his way home from Colorado. The bracing air of that favored region has benefitted him very much, and he returns with renewed health and strength.
—We were delighted to hear from our old friend Thos. J. Dundon, ’73, who is now living at Humboldt, Mich., and sends to secure for himself a continuation of that happy reminder of old times and friends—the Scholastic.
—D. J. Hogan,. ’73, returned from Europe- in the early part of last month, but not alone. He was accompanied by a young and beautiful lady, to whom he was married a few weeks ago. We wish the young couple all joy and happiness. They now reside in Chicago, where Mr. Hogan is practicing law.
—Mr. John Walsh, of New York, brother to Rev. T. E. Walsh, Vice President of the University, paid us a brief visit this week. This is Mr. Walsh’s first visit to Notre Dame, and we regret that circumstances made it a very brief one. We hope ere long to have the pleasure of seeing him again.
—A friend, who visited the late Nat. Wood, ’68, every day for weeks before his death, informs us that the only comfort Nat took during his illness was in speaking about his college companions and professors. It was his delight to look over his larga collection of photographs of old students and scenes of Notre Dame, and to recall some pleasant reminiscence of each person and place.
—A very destructive fire recently took place at Carroll City, Iowa. Amongst the sufferers—though, fortunately, his losses were not serious—was Mr. P. M. Guthrie, father of our young friend, the genial and popular John W. As might be expected, however, of a town of which Mr. Guthrie is a representative citizen, the ashes of the old buildings had not grown cold before new ones began to rise in their places, and the probabilities are that in a very few months all traces of the late sad disaster will have disappeared.
—Paul F. Schnurrer, ’79, as formerly mentioned, is at Hanover, Kansas, with his father. Paul seems much. pleased with his new home in the far West, judging from a letter to a fellow-student here, and says he intends to be a farmer. Sensible! He has talent enough for two of the ordinary run of law or medical students, but he does a wise thing in choosing the farm for his portion. His Latin and Greek would, we think, hardly prove an equivalent. Daniel Webster was a farmer, and derived more pleasure from rural life than from politics and senatorial contests. Paul sends his regards to all his old friends at Notre Dame, and says he will shortly send an essay for the Scholastic, although he is very busy. We hope others will profit by his example in this regard, and do likewise. How is it that none of the old students ever send us an essay, and few take the trouble of even sending personal items?
90
THE NOTRE DAME^ SCHOLASTIC
Local Items.
—Plato has returned, and the debaters are happy.
—Literary tramps are requested to keep away from this office.
—Competitions will be held next week in the Collegiate Course.
—The Sophomores are determined to do something rash before long.
—B. Alexander’s private class is well patronized on Wednesdays.
—All should take an active part in the athletic contests next Monday.
—The students never enjoyed better health. Only one in the Infirmary.	.
—Collegians and Preps, are requested to contribute items and personals.	.
—Monday is the patronal feast-day of the venerable founder of our University.
—A. lively contest took place in the Ancient History Class during the past week.
—The Notre Dame Navy is in good working order under Commodore Coleman.
—The man who kicks footballs, throws his whole sole into his boot.—Catholic Union.
—That Soph is bloodthirsty. Pistols and coffee boom in the distance. Minnesota, beware!
J	—The juvenile department of the Lemonnier Library is
’ now open for the use of the Preps.	'
—The Freshmen are determined to distinguish or extinguish themselves on Field-Day.
—Each student should constitute himself a local reporter or an itemizer for the Scholastic.
—The Senior Department had 95 and the Juniors 78 candidates for the Roll of Honor this week.
—The Cornet Band are preparing some choice selections for Very Rev. Father Sorin’s patronal feast.
—The Minims enjoy the exercise of velocipede riding. They have now a smooth walk for that purpose.
—The members of the Senior Law Class are positively bewitching behind their incipient mustaches and embryo burnsides.
—The Minims’ Glee Club, conducted by Bro. Albert, have very pleasant reunions every evening in their cosy recreation-room.
,	—The S. C. P. A. is as lively as ever. How could it be
otherwise when the magnanimous Judge and Doctor stands at the helm ?
—The Juniors have been grading their walk around the campus during the week. No doubt fast time will be made next Monday.
—We noticed several students during the week making “ spurts ” around the campus. We concluded they were preparing for St. Edward’s day.
—Our kind neighbor, Mr. J. Chirhart, has the thanks of the Minims for a treat of chestnuts given to them during their promenade on last Sunday.
—He thought it fun to talk in his sleep (?), but he thought it no tun to trot out into the cold night air without his ordinary wearing apparel.
—The Horticultural Bureau express their sincere thanks to the Rev. C. Kelly, for the beautiful floral specimens recently brought from the Green Isle. "	•
—Father Stoffel will celebrate the first anniversary of his ordination on the 20th inst. We hope he may live to celebrate his golden jubilee.
—Every mail brings new subscribers to the Scholastic. All those who are interested in Notre Dame or her students should subscribe for our paper.
—The Minims enjoyed the half-holiday given them on the 26th inst., in honor of the return of their head teacher after a long vacation trip through the Northwest.
—The training which a student derives from belonging
to a good literary and debating club cannot be obtained in any other way. A hint to the wise is sufficient.
—Last year there were a number of students who had a clear record up to the time of the fire, never receiving a note for bad conduct. We hope to see as many, if not more, this year.
—Some magnificent specimens of the mineral products of the Seven Churches, and St. Kevin’s bed, Glendalough, have been presented to the Curator of the Museum by the Rev. C. Kelly since his return from Ireland.
—The fall Regatta, for which our oarsmen have been in training for several weeks past, will be rowed on the morning of St. Edward’s day. Judging from the way the crews pulled last Wednesday, the races will be exciting and closely contested.
—Fifty-seven students belonging to the Junior Department were marked No 1 for general conduct on their Bulletins for the month of September. We doubt whether that record has ever been excelled, if equalled, by the Juniors of any former year. •
—Many donations of money have been received by Fathers Sorin, Corby and others, which will be published in a special number of the Scholastic. The names of the donors will also, be inscribed in letters of gold upon the walls of the University they have helped to build.
—To-morrow, the 19th Sunday after Pentecost, the Feast of the Maternity of the Blessed Virgin, Missa de Angelis, p. 213 of the Kyriale, will be sung. Vespers of the same, p. 23 of the Vesperal. Is Commemoration, of the 19th Sunday, Intrant autem, p. 105; 2d Com., of St. Edward, SimiLabo, p. 52.	,
—Field Day will be celebrated as usual on the Feast of St. Edward, Oct. the 13th. The sports will consist of footraces, walking and running, rowing, throwing, sack-races, wheelbarrow races, three-legged races, hurdle-races, football, handball, baseball, and several other games. In the evening, valuable prizes will be given to the victorious contestants.	.
—The monthly examinations or competitions have commenced in the different courses. All can see from the Scholastic report who has done best in the different classes. The diligent and ambitious student’s name is generally found at the head of the list, while the indolent student’s name is passed over in silence, and never figures on the list of excellence of or class honors.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic is on our table. This weekly journal, the exponent of Notre Dame University, which institution was destroyed by fire last spring, looks as fresh and bright as ever, its columns abounding with choice literary matter for the average reader. The Scholastic holds a prominent place among college journals. Success to its endeavors.—The Catholic Visitor, Lockport,
—The pilgrimage from Mishawaka to Notre Dame on the Feast of the Holy Rosary was well attended. It was an edifying sight to see so many men, accompanied by their wives and children, devoutly visiting the Holy Sepulchre, Grotto of Lourdes, Tomb of the Blessed Virgin, House of Loretto, and other fac-similes and representations of holy places which are so numerous here and at St. Mary’s.	•
—Bulletins were made out on Wednesday, and have been already forwarded. By means of Bulletins and the Scholastic, parents cannot fail to know just how their children are progressing, and also how they conduct themselves. In this connection, we again suggest that parents should subscribe for the Scholastic, and have it forwarded directly to them. The reason is, that when reports are not favorable students will not send the paper.
—We-regret that we cannot have a public exhibition this year on our Very Rev. Father General’s feast, because Washington Hall is now occupied by the mechanics who are at work on the new buildings. Let us, however, show our affection for him by offering to the Almighty our prayers and Communions that all blessings, spiritual and temporal, may be heaped upon him, and that he may live for many years to assist and guide us by his wise counsels and edifying life.	•

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
91
• r
—The first story of the northern part of the Music Hall is now well advanced, and it is expected that this end, or the Music Hall proper, will soon be ready for the roof. A portion of the foundations of the south section are laid, much of the material necessary is already on the ground, and from present appearances the workmen seem determined to have the entire building under roof this fall. Every one who has seen the plan of the building speaks of it in terms of the highest praise.
lX-A friend of ours has lately received some rare portraits of deceased Bishops of the United States. Among the number are likenesses, taken from life, of Bishop Flaget, of Louisville; Bishop Loras, of Dubuque; Bishop Cretin, of St. Paul, and an excellent profile picture of Bishop Tyler, of Hartford, taken a few hours after his death. It is the intention of the owner to make his collection of American Prelates as complete as possible, and then to place the album in the Lemonnier Library at Notre Dame.
—Some of our boys at Notre Dame are pretty good at the bat, but what will they say to the strike made by a player at Norristown, Pa. (Luff, of the Athletics), who made a home run, and in fact reached second base before the ball touched the ground! A curious coincidence in the concluding two games of a baseball contest between the Bostons and Clevelands was that the same number of runs, and of earned runs, were made by both clubs in each game, and the Clevelands also scored the same number of basehits and errors in each game.
' —The South Bend Tribune must have some one here at Notre Dame who keeps it posted in regard to passing events. The correspondent maintains a splendid “ incog.,” but, from the style, we think we could lay our finger on the individual. We are glad to see that our neighbor thinks enough of us to make an effort to give to the public items of interest from Notre Dame. Our own little paper has so far been favored by “locals ” from many of the students, but we would like to have all hand in any items of interest that may come in their way, and especially personal items about the older students.
. —The different Professors and teachers in the Commercial Course report that the enthusiasm of the students during the recent competition was something unprecedented. Every student of the course made his best effort to attain the first place in his particular class, and if each could not be head it was not owing to lack of good will. Still, the race is to many, the crown to one, and so some bright hopes were nipped in the bud. Yet, to the unfortunates, hard study, attention to instruction, and a desire, an earnest desire to succeed, may, next month, bring better success.
—Last Tuesday, one of the Junior Prefects, accompanied by several students belonging to his department, was passing in front ot the College when the large iron water tank was temporarily placed in position. A gentleman standing by inquired of the Prefect the capacity of the tank. He turned to Master R. J. Semmes, one of the smallest of the group, and requested him to figure out the number of gallons the tank was capable of containing. He picked up a piece of slate and did so, without a moment’s hesitation. It is enough to say that Master Semmes is a boy that is never found in detention.
—We have received and read two numbers of the Notre Dajie Scholastic, and find in them much to commend. The authors of many of the contributions are manifestly able writers, but there is a very apparent lack of liberality so characteristic of most strictly sectarian papers. Its scientific and literary notes and personals are of interest and deserve attention. We welcome it as a valuable exchange, and wish for the University of Notre Dame, that it may, aided by the advantage of its new building and appliances, educationally be the means of great good.— The Earlhamite, Earlham College, Ind.
—Last Saturday afternoon an express wagon belonging to Notre Dame, and used to carry produce from the Notre Dame farm in Harris township to the University, met with a serious accident. It was loaded with fresh beef and several cans of milk. When near the Robert Savidg farm, the wagon was overturned into a deep cut full of water, and but for the assistance of Mr. Savidg the driver might have been drowned. Prof. Stace, the wit of the University, says the driver was getting into the bad ways which
all milkmen are accused of, and was really hunting for the water. The driver cannot see the cream of the Professor’s joke.—South-Bend Tribune.
—We bad lately a peep at the elevation plan of the new Music Hall that is now in course of erection. When completed it will, in our judgment, be the most ornate building, at least exteriorly, on the premises. The style of architecture will be modern Gothic, slightly modified,—in keeping with the pointed Gothic of the Church, and the University Gothic of the College. The building will be 170 long, with a width varying from 40 to 80 ft. It will occupy a position southeast of the main building, designed to balance the Church on the southwest. When the Music Hall is completed, and the old garden replaced by a fine lawn, the appearance of the three buildings will be really imposing.
—The head slater, while working on the roof on Monday, came near meeting with a serious accident. He made a misstep, and slipped several feet to the gutter, caught himself there, and caused consternation to his colored assistant. The latter was reported as having turned white with fear for his foreman, but of course this is only another specimen of the bad jokes of our local wits. Seriously, however, we must look on it as providential that in the erection of so many buildings here no really serious accident has occurred. Mr. Boyle, one of the foremen of the masons, who had a bad fall in the early part of the work, had a miraculous escape, and is now at his home in Watertown, Wis. We would, however, advise all those holding high positions—on the roof tops—to take all possible care of themselves, because “in the midst of life death is always near.”
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt of an interesting collection of minerals and fossils from one of his students of the class of ’77. If all the old students, especially those living in mineral regions, would make similar contributions, the Musum would soon be replaced. The following extract from the letter of the generous donor explains itself: “I sympathize with you in your misfortune, and am only too happy to assist you in replacing what the fire has destroyed; but at the same time I regret that I cannot aid you financially in your good work. This evening I send you by express a few fossiliferous bearing rocks, representing the limestone, ‘Kidney ore’ and sandstone groups, some petrified hickory nuts, limbs, etc.; also some mineral specimens from the Black Hills, and Lake Superior region. The petrified nuts are the finest specimens of the kind I have ever seen, and no doubt you will say the same.”
—The pilgrims from St. Joseph’s Church, Mishawaka, seven miles from Notre Dame, had a fine day for their procession. The weather was propitious and there was neither wind nor dust to impede the progress of the pedestrians. After an early Mass, at which all received Holy Communion, a line was formed, headed by the cross, and followed by the parochu^ of the congregation, Rev. Father Oechtering in cassock, surplice and stole. The trees on the route were gorgeous, and displayed all the brilliant hues which can be found only in an American forest. The Rosary was said by twelve hundred voices in unison, and other prayers repeated until the procession arrived at the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. Father Oechtering said solemn Mass, assisted by deacon and subdeacon, and Father Superior preached an eloquent sermon on the devotion of the Holy Rosary. The Divine Sacrifice completed, the pilgrims scattered in groups to visit the Portiuncula, Calvary, and other shrines which have been so generously enriched with spiritual privileges by our late Holy Father. Having finished their special acts of devotion the pilgrims were called to the church by the booming of the mammoth bell to pour out their hearts in grateful thanksgiving to the-soul inspiring strains of the Grosser Gott, accompanied by the swelling tones of the grand organ and the joyful chiming of a score of consecrated bells. By special permission the Papal benediction was given, after which all returned to their home on foot, as they came.
—A vote of thanks is hereby returned by the Lemonnier . Library Association to the following persons who contributed books during the past week: To Mrs. Rachel Walter,
82
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of Chester Springs, Pa., for TheRdigious Cabinet, Balt., 1842. To W. Morris, Jackson, Miss., for The “Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri,” Longfellow; “ Words and their Uses,” R. Grant White; “The Genesis of Species,” Mivart ; “Getting on in the World,” Matthews. To Rev. Father Louage, for “ Principles of Church Authority, or Reasons for Recalling my Subscription to the Royal Supremacy,” Rev. A. Wilberforce; “The Celebrated Answer to the Rev. C. Lesley’s Case Stated Between the Church of Rome and the Church of England,” Rev. R. Manning; The Works of Chillingworth; Shea’s “Catholic Missions;” “The Odes of Pindar,” Translated by F. A. Paley; “History of America,” Wm. Robertson. To a friend, for “Mores CatJuHici, or Ages of Faith,” 3 vols.; “ God, the Teacher of Mankind,” Muller, 2 vols.; “ Genius of Christianity,” Chateaubriand; “Lectures on the Church,” Wiseman; “Authority of the Pope,” Weninger; “Life of Bishop Brute,” Bayley; “Devotion of the Rosary,” M&ller. To Mrs. C. Connolly, Toledo, “Burton’s Anatomy of Melancholy”; “Literary Hours,” 3 vols.; to Father Granger, for “Cloister Legends”; “Life of Rev. J. B. M. Vianney.” To Father Baroux, Glorieux, Mich., for 5 volumes of the Catholic World. To Mayor Tong, for McCall’s Clerk’s Assistant, Adapted to the Eastern, Middleand Western States; Statutes of Indiana, Gavin, Hurd & Davis, 3 vols.; Shars wood’s Commercial Law; Calvin Townsend’s Compendium of Commercial Law; Thos. L. Smith’s Elements of the Law; O’Connor’s Histoiy of Turkey; A Vindication of Italy and the Papal States; Alabama Claims, Case of the United States; Selections from Byron’s Works; Resumption of Specie Payment
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Facuity. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOB DEPABTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, H. Ashe, R. C. Adams, M. T. Bums, T. J. Byrnes, J. P. Brice, W. Boulger, F. W. Bloom, B. J. Claggett, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, B. Casey, J. Casey, Geo. Clarke, F. Clarke, T. B. Campbell, R. S. Campbell, L. Clements, D. Donohue, Geo. Donnelly, J. Delaney, L. BL. Duginger, H. Deehan, J. Dempsey, it English, E. Fogarty, M. D. Falvey, Ed. _ Gooley, I. J. Gittings, J. Brady, C. L. Hagan, F. Humbert, J. Halloran, A Hayden, G. Harris, T. Hindeling, J. Jordan, R. L. Johnson, A M. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, J. Keena, J. R. Kelly, J. Kurz, F. Kinsella, P. B. Larkin, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, P. McCormick, J. J. McErlain, M. J. McEniry, J. R. Marlette, E. Murphy, Ed. Molitor, P. Maguire, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, M. Maloney, J. Malone, W. Magee, J. F. Mug, L. Mathers, J. Norfleet, J. Noonan, G. Nester, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, Geo. Pike, H. Pollock, R. E. Russell, J. Ryan, F. Reeve, J. Rogers, S. T. Spalding, T. W. Simms, T. D. Summers, Geo. Sugg, R. D. Stewart, W. Schofield, J. Strawn, J. Solon, L. Stitzel, F. C. Smith, P. F. Shea, S. P. Terry, P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, J. McNamara, F. X. Wall, C. H. Wathen, W. Wilson, A Zahm, Thos. Zeien, J. Carver.	.
JUNlOB DEPABTMENT.
J. F. Brown, J. M. Boose, T. P. Byrne, A A Bodine, Frank Becker, M. J. Burns, J. V. Cabel, E. H. Croarkin, A M. Cogh-lin, L. W. Coghlin, H. P. Dunn, H. F. Devitt, J. W. Devitt, S. T. Dering, F. T. Dever, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, Fred Glade, H. G. Guynn, E. H. Gaines, A C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A. Herrmann, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, J. M. Kelly, F. A Kleine, R. L. Le Bourgeois, J. Litmer, J. A Larkin, • A Mergentheim, F. McPhillips, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy. R. E. McCarthy, P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, E. A Otis, G. A Orr, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, F. A Quinn, G. J. Quinn, Chas. C. Roberts, Alex. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, F. J. Rettig, G. J. Rhodius, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A 8. Rock, J. P. Reily, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg,' J. A Seeger, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, J. A. Simms, C. A Tinley, C. H. Theile, J. B. Wilder, B. A Zekind, N. Wcny.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past
. COMMERCIAL COURSE.
C. J. Brinkman, G. A Orr, F. B. Phillips, A. Rietz, W. Rietz,
F. Scheid, R. Fleming, J. McCarthy, J. Schobey, J. M. Scanlan, B. Casey, J. Casey, T. Conlan, L. Demick, L. H. Duginger, G. Donnelly, A Keenan, A Lent, P. Maguire, L. C. Marantette, J; McErlain, J. Brice, C. F. Mueller, W. Boulger, F. Brennan, W. Carpenter, J. Dempsey, M. Falvey, F. Kinsella, R. Keenan, W. B. McGorrisk, E. W. McGorrisk, P. McCormick, G. Pike, Jas. Solon, P. H. Vogel.
. MINIM DEPABTMENT.
J. M. Courtney, J. R. Coolbaugh, D. G. Taylor, J. S. Courtney, F. Mattes, C. L. Garrick, G. E. Tourtillotte, G. Woodson, H. C. Snee, E. A. Howard, C. E. Droste, F. J. Leach, F. B. Farrelly, J. H. Dwenger, F. I. Garrity, J. H. Garrity, L. J. Young, C. Young, A. F. Schmiickle, W. M. Olds, J. A Kelly, J. E. Johnson, P. G. Van Mourick, A Van Mourick, Jose Chaves.
Iiist of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Dibectob of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—B. Casey, G. Pike, W. Boulger, A. B. Mergentheim, J. F. Browne, G. Rhodius, M. Herrick; Grammar—P. H. Vogel, A Rietz, J. Guthrie, C. Rietz, L. H. Duginger, J. Homan; Arithmetic—J. H. Jordan, W. McDermott; Geography and History—R. Semmes, J. Marlett, W. Boulger; Book keeping—C. Zarley, W. Wilson, M. D. Falvey, G. Witwer, J. Halloran, C. Tinley, J. Perea, J. Schobey, P. McCormick, W. B. McGorrisk, J. Solon, F. Brennan, Jno. Dempsey, F. Kinsella, R. Keenan, M. English, P. H. Vogel, F. B. Phillips, P. McGuire, A Lent, A J .Burger; Penmanship—B. Pollock, A Lent, L. Duginger, F. Philips, J. Browne, R. Le Bourgeois.
’ One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The return of Mother Superior from the visitation of the houses of the Order in Washington, D. C., on Friday, was welcomed with joy.
—The monthly Exposition and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament for the Archconfraternity took place on Sunday. The members were assigned their respective hours of adoration.
—At the St Catharine’s Literary Society meeting, Miss Herrick gave a very satisfactory account of the reading at the previous meeting. Reader—Miss Dallas; subject^ “Venice,” from “Holiday Conversations” by the Author of “Tyborne.”
—St. Angela’s Literary Society,—Miss Flora Reinhardt reviewed the reading at the last meeting. Reader—Miss Mary Salomon; subject—“The Pyrenees and the Sea,” an extract from “ A Pilgrimage to the Land of the Cid,” by Ozanam.
—The annual election of officers of the Rosary Society took place on the eve of Rosary Sunday. Directress, Mother Mary Annunciata; President, Miss Ellen Galen; Vice-President, Miss Ellen McGrath; Secretary, Miss Adelaide Kirchner; Treasurer, Miss Mary Usselmann.
—At the regular meeting of the St. Teresa’s Literary Society, choice items were given. Essays—” The English Language,” by the graduates; “ The Study of Rhetoric,” by the First Senior Class; readings from the “Life of St. Thomas Aquinas,” by Vaughan. The essays were commended by the Directress.
—Very Rev. Father General’s usual instruction after the Mass said for the Children of Mary in the Chapel of Loretto on Monday, was upon the nature and beauty of humility. The subject was suggested from the consideration of the virtues possessed in such an eminent degree by the saint of the day, Saint Bruno, the founder of the Chartreuse.
—On the Feast of the Holy Angel Guardians, the Society of the Holy Angels met in the Chapel of Loretto, the Chaplain, Rev. Father Shortis, presiding. After the sing

th*e n8t.be hAki: scholastic.	93
ing of the Ave Maris Stella the following aspirants, were received: Mary Flemming, Mary Reutlinger, Agnes Dillon, Catharine Ryan, Grace Taylor, Cecilia Gibbons, Mary Hutchison, Martha Zimmerman, Mary Duncan, Catharine Harrison, Rose McCloskey, Ellen Ryan, Catharine Lancaster, Annie Leydon, Ida Moll. Members admitted—Sabina Semmes, Angela Watson, Elise Papin, Ellen Hackett.
.. On the 5th inst. at the weekly Academic reunion, Miss Cavenor read “Bernardo del Carpio” by Mrs. Hernans. Miss°McGrath read “ The Widow Bedott Visits the Normal School in Philadelphia.” Miss Lemontey read “Ze preci'eux ami qu'un Chapelet,” by M. l’Abbe de Grenade.” Miss Gall, read “ Mater Misericordia," by Eleanor C. Donnelly; Miss Ewing read “Die KrOnung,” bei Franklin. Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Father Marine, of New Orleans, Rev. Father Shortis and Rev. Father Saulnier were present, and seemed pleased. After the reading, Very Rev. Father General gave a brief lecture on deportment. “ The style of reading,” he remarked, “is not noticed by every one, neither is the writing seen by all, but manners are. A judgment of the individual is formed at first sight. No splendor of genius or acquirements can excuse rude, uncouth manners.” He added other considerations calculated to impress the advantage imparted to exquisite and considerate deportment, and announced that a gold medal is to be given in June to the young lady whose manners are the most perfect throughout the year.
—Visitors of the week are: Mr. M. Sullivan, of New York; Captain E. A. Woodson, U. S. Army, and Mrs. E. A. Woodson; Mr. and Mrs. Spillard, Aurora, Ill.; Hon. P. Gibbons and family, South Bend; Thomas G. Waller, Montreal, Canada; Miss Anna Cunnea, Morris, Ill.; Mr. A. V.,Westfall, Mrs. Lizzie Westfall, Minerva, Ohio; Mr. P. J. Kenner, Laporte, Ind.; Mrs. E. J. White, Kendallville, Mich.; Mrs. E. A. Owens, Lansing, Mich.; Mrs. A. B. Lemen, South Bend; Mrs. J. B. Stevens, Benton Harbor, Mich.; Mr. 8. S. Terry, Rochester, Ind.; Miss Millie White, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Mr. John R. Gerhart, South Bend; Mr. George Eskridge, Battle Creek, Mich.; Mr. Patrick McCarty,Mrs. Ellen McCarty,Huntington, Ind.; Mrs. Wm. Roys, Constantine, Mich.; Mrs. R. L. Westfall, Lyons, N. Y.; Mr. Thos. McClunie, Hartford, Conn.; Mr. W. H. Dawky,Mishawaka; Mrs. Lewis, Chicago; Mrs. Lintner, South Bend; Louisa Devitt, New Carlisle,Ind.; Mrs. Butts, South Bend; Mr. Jno. Shimp, Mrs. Josie Shimp, C. H. Woodbury, Maggie Hollowell, South Bend.; Mr. Jacob Shimp, Mishawaka, Ind.; Samantha Graham, Dayton, Ohio; John A. Zachall Granger, Harris Prairie, Ind.; Nettie Fisher, Bryan, Ohio; Katie Miller, South Bend; Mrs. N. N. Roberts, C. C. Roberts, Michigan City, Ind.; Mary Flentyl, Laporte, Ind.; Nellie E. Curran, Amelia Klotz, Mishawaka, Ind.; Miss Helen Foote, graduate of ’79, Burlington, Iowa.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Class—Misses E. Galen, E. Keenan, A Dillon.
2d Div.—Misses H. Buck, A. Gordon.
2d Class—Misses M. Usselman, L. Nou, M. Sullivan, H. Rosing, T. Killelea.
2d Div.—Misses A. Kirchner, A. McGrath, A Farrell, M. Campbell.
3d Class—Misses H. Hackley, E. Callinan, M. Salomon, I. Semmes, M. McGrath, A. Hoadley, C. Gall.
2d Drv.—Misses C. Hackett, M. Dallas, M. Bischoff, M. Piersol, C. Wells, E. Bruser, A. Maloney, A. Cortright, M. Roys, M. English, F. Reinhardt. .	_
4th Class—Misses C. Dennehey, D. Horner, E. Julius, A Ewing, H. Hackett, A. Woodin.
2b Drv.—Misses C. Campbell, Cavenor, J. Mitchell, Leydon. . 5th Class—Misses S. Purdy, M. Hamilton, M. Garrity, L. French, L. Otto, A. Joyce, J. Herrick, A. Jones, L. Fox, L. English.	'
2d Div.—Misses C. Gavin, A. Dessaint, M. Casey, M. Mitchell, C. Orr, J. Keys, C. Claffey, C. Danaher, M. Loeber, L. Lancaster, C. Bannister, E. O’Connor, C. Gibbons, C. Hutchinson, M. Harrison. Classed—Miss C. Wathen.
6th Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, C. Lloyd, J. Tallman, 8. Gillen, E. Moxon, E. Thompson, A. McKinnis, C. Lancaster, L. Wells, E. Dallas, E. Kinzie, R. Neteler, C. Stitzel, L. Hammond, M. Simms, C. Wall, M. Feehan, L. Populorum, E. Populorum, M. Reutlinger. Classed—Miss S. Wathen.
2d Drv.—Misses M. Fishburne, K. Edelen, M. McFadden, E. Rasche, F. Murphy, C. Ryan, E. Ryan, C. Ward, M. Flemming, M. Duncan, C. De Llapp, J. Baroux, M. Cox, I. Moll, M. Chir-hart, E. Papin, C. Lemontey, J. Barlow.	1
7th Clam—Misses M.; Halloran, 8. Smith, A Watson, A Clarke, A. Taylor, G. Taylor, M. Zimmerman. I. Hackett.
8th class—Misses C. Ginz, B. Garrity, J. Butts, M. Fisk, E. Lloyd. ,
9th Class—Misses M. Carter,M. Wilkins.
_10th Class—Misses R. McCloskey, A. Dillon, M. Baroux, M. Fitzgerald.
Harp—2d Div.—1st Class—Misses Galen and Semmes.
2d Class—Misses A. Dillon, A McGrath.
4th Class—Miss M. O’Neill.
Beginning on the Organ—Misses C. and 8. Wathen. Theoretical Classes are well attended.
Private Harmony—Misses E. Galen, E. Keenan, A. Dillon, A. Gordon, H. Buck, L. Neu, M. Usselman.
General Thorough Base—Misses L. McMahon, M. Sullivan, A. Farrell, M. Campbell, C. Gall, A. Ewing, I. Semmes, H. Rosing, A. McGrath, A. Cortright.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss C. Silverthorn.
2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class-:—Misses A Gordon and M. Usselman.
3d Class—Misses C. Hackett, A Farrell.
4th Class—Misses H. Buck, MI Sullivan, A. McGrath, N. McGrath, A. Ewing, J. Herrick, B. Julius, M. Callinan, E. O’Connor, M. O’Neill, F. Reinhardt, I. Semmes, L. Otto, M. Salomon, E. Bruser.	'
5th Class—Misses A. Purdy, J. Mitchell, L. French, M. English, A. Jones, C. Bannister, H. Rosing, A. Cortright, D. Horner, N. Hackett, A. Hoadley, E. Moxen, 8. Wathen, C. Wathen.
ART DEPARTMENT.	, '
DRAWING.
3d Class—Misses T. Zahm, C. Lancaster, L. Lancaster, J. Wells, L. Fox, C. Wall, I. Hatch, M. Feehan, J. Baroux, L. Hammond.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses I. Semmes, S. Purdy, J. Butts, M. Sullivan, C. Campbell, S. Papin, M. Loeber, M. Casey.
OIL PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses R. Neteler, S. Hambleton, H. Buck.
2d Class—Misses T. Killelea, A. Cortright.
3d Class—Misses A. Dillon, A. Ewing.	-
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses 0. Williams, C. Gavin, C. Gall, M. Roys, C. Hackett, M. Halloran, M. Bischoff, A. Jones, E. Reynolds, C. De Lapp, C. Bannister, G. Tailman, C. Donnelly, E. Bruser, L. McMahon, E. O’Connor, M. Cox, A. Ryan,F. Murphy, L. Hammond, C.Edelin, G. Keys.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Hale, E. Populorum, R. McCloskey, L. English, M. Hutchinson, C. Gibbons, G. Barlow, M. Duncan, A. Dillon, M. Fishburne, B. Haney, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, C. Lemontey, E. Joseph, M. Carter.
For. politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses C. Silverthorne, T. Killelea, E. McGrath, A. Woodin, R. Neteler, C. Ward, A. Ryan, A. Cortright, H. Rosing, C. Quinn, E. Galen, C. Danaher, A. McGrath, A. Dillon, A. Joyce, E. Alden, M. Usselman, L. Otto, A. Geiser, 8. Smith, A. Hoadley, I. Semmes, O. Williams, M. Loeber, M. Fitzgerald, C. Donnelly, C- Gall, M. Dallas, M. Roys, K. Wells, M. Bischoff, E. Bruser, L. McMahon, C. Wathen, S. Wathen, T. Zahm, M. Piersol, M-Campbell, E. O’Connor, J. Keys, F. Murphy, L. Lancaster, M. Simms, I. Hatch, C. Stitzel, A. Taylor, E. Gillen, S. Winston, A. Keena, A. Dessaint, C. Wall, A. McKinnis, C. Gavin, J. Baroux, E. Thompson, L. Hammond, M. McFadden, D. Homer, S. Purdy, Solomon, A. Rasche, M. Mitchell, M. Halloran, E. Reynolds, E. Atwood, E. Moxon, C. Edelen, J, Tallman, par excellence. Misses E. Keenan, A. Maloney, S. Hambleton, R. Ewing, A. Cavenor, C. Hackett, H. Buck, A. Ewing, A. Farrell, A. Kirchner, C. Lloyd, A. Gordon, J. Herrick, L. Neu, J. Mitchell, A. Jones, M. O’Neil, C. Bannister, C. De Lapp, B. Julius, M. English, E. Callinan, E. Hackley, M. Hamilton, E. Kinzie, M. Cox, F. Reindhardt.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses C. Claffey, A. Dillon, L. Fox, C. Campbell, A. Orr, J. Butts, L. French, L. Populorum, C. Lemontey, 8. Semmes, E. Hackett, M. Casey, A. Leyden, M. Fishburne, M. Lewis, J. Wells, E. Dallas, G. Taylor, R. McCloskey, C. Harrison, M. Hutcheson, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, M. Carter, C. Gibbons, M. Paquette, C. Lancaster, M. Flemming, M. Duncan, M. Reutlinger, E. Joseph, M. Chirhart, J. Barlow, B. Legnard, E. Populoruin, C. Ginz, L. English, I. Moll, M. Zimmerman, B. de C. Garrity, E. Considine, E. Papin, E. Hale, I. Hackett, M. Fitzgerald, M. Wilkins, L. Robinson, V. Orr, M. Baroux, par excellence. Misses M. Feehan, M. McN. Garrity, A. Watson, A. Clarke.
94
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YOEH'to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 - CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566
CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775 CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and. fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
'	JOHN G. DALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JTA.COJB WILE,
Foreign, Exchange-and Passage Agent, octSif ' La Porte, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3	25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, ar' rives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 m; Buffalo 8 <5 p. m.
11	055 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m;
Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12	16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo
2 40 a.mCleve and, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4= 50 and 4= p.m, Way Freight.
.	GOING WEST.
H 4,3 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago
820 a.m.	■
4, 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 am. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m;.Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend. -
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
RAILROAD.
Depots, foot of Lake St., Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St, and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St. and at’the depots.
Leave. Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger.....* 7:25 a.m.	* 7:30 p.m
Nebraska and Kansas Express.....* 9:30 a.m.	* 4:05 p.m
Rockford and Freeport Express...*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Dubuque and Sioux City Express..*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Pacific Fast Express............*10:30 a.m.	* 3:40 p.m
Kansas and Colorado Express.....*10:30	a.m.	* 3:40 p.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation....* 8:25 a.m.	* 1:35 p.m
Aurora Passenger.................*3:15	p.m. *7:55 a.m
Mendota and Ottawa Express........* 4:35 p.m. *10:40 a.m Aurora Passenger.............* 5:30 p.m.	* 8:55 a.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation....* 6:15 p.m.	* 7:15 a.m
Freeport and Dubuque Express....* 9:30 pm.* 6:35 a.m
Pacific Night Express for Omaha.+ 9:05 p.m.	J 6:55 a.m
Texas Fast Express..............*9:05 p.m.	j 6:55 a.m
Kansas City and St Joe Express..+ 9:05 p.m.	j 6:55 a.m
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleeping Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.
*Sundays excepted. fSaturday excepted. ^Monday excepted.
For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations, apply to	•
C. W. Smith,	James R. Wood,
Truffle Manager,	.	Gen. Pass. Agent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
Wo extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the -world.
UNIOE DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and
PEKIN and PEORIA. .
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tlie Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Houle between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health liesorts and Min-inQ districts. ,
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CABS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Charlton, General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.
W. C. Van Horne,	J. C. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent. •	’ Gen’l Manager. •

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
95
r The Lemonnier Library,
j	Established at Notre Name in 1872for the use of the Students.
L	Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the re-
£	establishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire,
are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and k y ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
;	J. EDWARDS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
I________________________________________________________
r
► r
k
.1
*
k*
i
it
4
i
i
EDWARD BUYSSE
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
-A.3STU .
JEWELRY. All Kinds of Engraving" Done. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST!
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon. Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton. Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; ’ Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars fora double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “ Havana " at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines forthe East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St Louis R. R.
At La Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At Peoria, with P„ P. & J.; P.. L. AD.; I. B. Sc W.; Ill. Midland; and T.. P. & W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R.R.and Rock Island & Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R. R.
At West libertf, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D. M. & Ft. Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.) At Columbus J unction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis. Kan. City & Northern and C.. B. & O. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis. Keokuk & N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St J. & C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison Sc Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R.Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA,DES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUETS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH:
Ticket* via this Elne, known as the “Great Rock Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
KIMBALL,	E.ST. JOHN,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Tkt, and Pass’gr Agt.,
Chicago, HL
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are -well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as anjeducational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.