gatrt Bist
Bevatexl ta th# interests of th# Students.
“LABOR O3ENIA. VINCIT.”
Volume IV.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 28, 1871.
Number 10.
founded upon a system entirely different from that in present use.” St. Gregory the Great adopted the forms of St. Ambrose, which were based, as we have already said, on the old Greek forms, and reduced them to a more systematic and harmonious chant There is a pretty legend handed down to us, that while St. Gregory was at prayer, a beautiful dove sang to him in this melody, and that he transcribed the song of the dove. AU the pictures of the great Saint represent this legend; but the dove is designed to represent, by many, the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. The Gregorian music is simple, grand and sonorous. Good specimens of the beauty of this music are to be found in the Preface and Pater Master, sung every Sunday in the Mass.
The great composers have always held these chants in high veneration. Indeed, it is related that Mozart once said that he would be willing to letaU the grand works he had composed—“Don Giovanni ” and all—perish were he only the author of the music of the Pater Noster. We may remark here also that all the Recitative in the Opera and oratorio are simply Gregorian; and many of the pleasing arias are founded on this mode though embellished with so many flourishes that the melody is somewhat changed. The last, we heUeve, of Verdi’s operas, “ La Fona del Destine," contains more of Gregorian than figured music, harmonized after the manner of Palestrina.
In the sixteenth century, as now, the music sung in our churches had degenerated into pleasing, instead of devotional song. But God raised up a reformer of music, as he raised up the great St Charles Borromeo to reform the ceremonies of the Church, in the person of Giovanni Pietro Aloisio da Palestrina. In the younger days of his life Palestrina composed his masses after the manner of his time, but being asked to compose a Mass in a simpler style he produced his celebrated Mass of “Pope Marcellus.” In this Mass he took for his model the Gregorian, harmonized the chant and arranged it for four voices. The production of this Mass in Rome created a complete revolution in church music. The flourishes which were scattered throughout the hymns of the Church were cast aside and given over to secular music to which they rightly belong.
It is related that the Pope, who was present when the “ Mass of Pope Marcellus” was rendered could compare the music of this Mass only to the heavenly melodies heard by St. John in his Apocalyptic vision.
It is this harmonized “Gregorian chant” that, we understand, is to be introduced in the course of a few months into our,Church at Notre Dame. That there should be something of a prejudice to Gregorian music when badly executed we can easily understand, but we cannot conceive any reason why a prejudice should exist against the harmonized Gregorian of Palestrina and others, and we feel confident that in a short while all will be delighted in the change from the old "figured music” to that chant which has received the approbation of the great masters and the sanction of the Church. All, we feel confident, will be pleased with that music which a distinguished Protestant clergyman
Church Music.
“We must not,” says Plato, “judge of music by the pleasure it affords, nor prefer that kind which has no other object than pleasure, but that which contains in itself a resemblance to the beautiful ” Now the beautiful has an absolute existence and cannot vary, but pleasure is a matter of opinion and changes according to the times, the nations and the customs, and hence cannot be the beautiful. Whatever, then, exalts the soul of man above the transient pleasures of the world, whatever calms it in its troubles, whatever banishes from it the cares and strifes of life, whatever purifies it from the corruptions of the flesh, whatever cultivates in it the seeds ot virtue, in short, whatever raises it to God, must partake, not of the mere faculty of producing pleasure, but must partake of the beautiful. Now music does this but in different degrees. Hence music is founded on the beautiful. All should cultivate the love of the beautiful, whether in poetry, music or art, and as God is the great Architect of all beauty it should be cultivated for His honor and glory. Our holy mother Church has always fostered this love for the beautiful. She has made the brush of the artist, and the chisel of the sculptor reproduce the scenes which were enacted in Judea, when Casar Augustus ruled the world. She has guided the almost inspired pen of the poet to write in glowing verse the majesty and mercy of her divine Spouse, and the musician has hung with joy and gladness his harp upon her altars.
It is apparent to all, that that style of music which inspires the listener with the greatest devotion, is the style of music which should be used in the Church. What is known as “figured music” has its charms and its beauties—aye, great beauties. Who that has listened to the Opera can deny this? But the greatest feeling experienced by the listener Is that of pleasure. His whole soul is, as it were, laved with the intoxicating pleasure of the melody of sweet sounds. It revels in pleasure until it is drunk with earthly joy or sadness—for sadness is, sometimes, produced from pleasure. But it cannot produce devotion, for it is bom of the earth, and can produce only what is “of the earth, earthly.” Hence in our Churches where we wish to be inspired with devotion and to have our souls translated to heaven, “ figured music” is out of place.
The Church, for the purpose of inspiring us with devotion, with the spirit of piety, has adopted another style of music as her own—which is known by the name of Gregorian, so named after Gregory the Great who introduced it throughout the whole "Church.
The “ Gregorian chant” is founded on the Ambrosian chant, or that chant introduced by St. Ambrose, Archbishop of Milan. St. Ambrose had made use of the old Greek modes of singing which had come down to him from the time of Pericles. He made such changes in these forms as were necessary to make the music suitable to the grave and solemn offices of the Church. Of these old Greek modes Rousseau says: “They have still* beauty of character and expression which intelligent hearers, free from prejudice, will discover, though
of New York characterized as (we quote from memory) the cries and wail, coming down frem the ages past, of sinful humanity calling upon ita God for mercy.	C.
“The Tipiad.”
Hotel of the Nike Moons, Pekin, ) China, 8th Moon in the reign	>
OF THE EMPEROR WHAKG-BaNG. J
To the Editor of the Scholastic :
Dear Snt: A few evenings ago Iwas present at a surprise party in the Imperial palace, and, while there, the Empress herself handed me her album and requested me to write a poem in it for her. How could I refuse? I couldn’t refuse under tha circumstances, so I went to work and wrote the following ode to my pipe. The Empress was so pleased with it that she called it “ The Pipiad,” in imitation of Pope, who called his poem on th* Dunce, “ The Dunciad.”
If you like it, you can publish it in the Scholastic. I will send you an account of a political meeting by next mail. In writing to me, be sure and say, in your address, “ To the Hon. Lawrence Doolan,” &c. “Larry” did well enough at home, but it’s not dignified here. Send me a paper, and I am, &c.
(Privately), Larkt Doolan.
All hail! companion of my lonely hours, Let poets sing of love in sylvan bow’rs: Thy curling wreaths are far more dear to me Than faithless smile, or song of chivalry. Thy Afric hue bespeaks the work of time Of social “ puffs” from morn to vesper chime. Familiar days oft cool the warmest ties;
Thy glowing friendship shines like snnny skies, Thy circling smoke ascends like classic domes, Surpassing Athens’, or artistic Borne’s. A dwarf volcano, thy burning bowl displays • Let red-nos’d gluttons revel in their wine, Or art-made damsels in false ringlets shine;— Here, on my throne—a democratic chair, My sceptre-sign—a match—I kill dull care ; Old Bacchus, Venus, Mars,—I hate the crew, Wars, draughts, and drafts, I equally eschew; Within these four strong walls, my kingly sway, Their hostile hosts would perish in a day. Deride, ye croaking owls, my artless choice, Get slaves to hearken to your husky voice;— Not kings like me, whose kingdom, twelve by tea, Is govern’d by an un-politic pen.
»»»•••
The wise may from its dust a moral draw, Since man is nothing more, by nature’s law; In ashes shall the proudest body rest, Memento ; omnis homo puh-is est.
Thrice happy state I no conscripts needed here; From legal burglars you have naught to fear. Strangers, with bay’net-keys may pick your loek, Or break your slumbers with a midnight knock; But then your neutral laws by force they break. And force your choice an active part to take.
’Tis true, th’ “ Amendments” gave a “ right” to arm, And speak at will, in peace or war’s alarm “To be secure, in persons and effects,” “In houses, papers,” and in all respects, ’.Gainst raids felonious, by day or night, ’Gainst petty minion’s whim or tyrant’s migh^ The Constitution gives that sacred shield
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Our fathers won upon a bloody field!	,
But Geu’ral Doctors find in this a flaw, And gloss the Common by the cannon law.
Degen’rate sons 1 respect your fathers’ graves 1 They died to save you from the doom of slaves!	-
Despise the demagogues who keep their homes, -And sate their god with human hecatombs! Who dare to call our flag “a flaunting lie,” And “furl” its folds ’neath every “ sunny sky.” Our pow’r, our wealth, beneath those folds increase; Our freedom with their setting stars shall cease. Then here’s a health, my pipe,—the best, the last, We’ll love them in the future as the past. Philanthropists, “nequidzm musca," palls, Who laugh when brother by a brother falls 1 Insulting cant! I spurn your blood-stain’d creed, Its faith demands a fratricidal deed I Its tenets turn the white man to a slave, And Freedom’s Temple to the freeman’s grave. Its god’s a cannibal; he feasts on blood 1 He gloats o’er human flesh 1—his daily food: Domitian rather let me live and die, And glut my royal vengeance on ajly. Let wolfish tyrants feast on selfish gore, And pers’nal wrongs requite, or rights restore; But meu 1 how can you hope in peace to die, When orphan tear, or widow’s anguish sigh, Shall blend with stiiTning sweat and Death’s harsh tone, To add a pang to ev’ry dying groan ?
How shall your thoughts despairing glow, While bloody streams around your pillows flow ?— While murder’d myriads demand redress, And spiritsjoin to curse your foul success!
What guilty Cains shall then desert the tomb To knell your vile ambition’s nearing doom^ Again, my pipe, I putf a health to thee;
Whate’er betide, I’ll see that thou art free.
I can’t believe those quacks who spurn the “ weed," And find its use for ev’ry ill a seed ;
’Twere well for such to smoke their blossom’d nose, As bugs are turn’d upon a hot-house rose;
’Neath such a cloud it could not shine so bright, Though like a livid sun its hue affright.
Blame not the pipe; it oft dread war forestays, And, like a charm, the swelling passion lays. The hostile thought is quell’d in savage breasts;
Fierce foes are chang’d to friends and harmless guests: The tomahawk and scalping knife fall down;
The warrior forgets the deadly frown, Whene’er the pipe goes round the council fire, And make its bowl the urn of his pent ire.
Thus, too, good pipe, thy smoke's the fittest Bhroud For griefs that press the lowly or the proud: Far better than strong brandy’s pois’ning fume, ■Or nightly joys that set in morning gloom.
Let public villainy the masses rule, Their strife shall noL our burning friendship cool; No fellow-man shall feel the power I wield, My killing prowess seeks another field ;
Invading spiders feel my sov’reign scowl, WTien from their filmy forts they dare to prowl; Then battle-smoke bursts from my pipe’s dread mouth, Proclaiming death to all the race uncouth; Mosquitoes, too, a conquer’d tribute pay For each infringement of my lordly sway. Here, from my window’s eminent estate, I see the crowd with senseless joys elate:
As venal Hessians for proud despots hir’d,	.
By bribe or madd’ning wine inspired, They bray their master’s praise, like Baalam’s ass, And join in murd’rous fight to free the human mass 1 Blind serfs! the feudal debt is yours to pay, Be black or white the victor of the day;
You do the vassal’s part, you bear the toils;
You bleed, you die, they gain the blood-bought spoils: Their aim attain’d, the oflice-secking nod Becomes a kingly frown: themselves a god;
41 Voz Populi” they turn to mean their own, And bold you bless’d becouse you’re free to groan I The choice, that rais’d them up to pow’r, is just,— But treason, when it seeks to bind their lust.
Unthinking mass! you vote, hurrah 1 and rave:— Bo did mad France while Danton made her grave. Was Marat’s milder than King Louis’ reign ?
■Or bastiles darker than the rolling Seine I -Or was the guillotine a softer bed Thau royal prisons for a freeman’s head ? I care not how you call my dungeou-cell, Nor what proud pennant from its dome may swell: If I’m not free to speak my wrongs aloud,—
That cell’s my tomb; that flag my freedom’s shroud. But now the bells proclaim the midnight hour, " And loud and louder swell from church and tow’r, ; Good night, old pipe, thy charms can “ lull to sleep Thine’s not the “friendship” that gives cause “to weep,”
In tranquil peace with thee I’d pass my life, And shun the angry stage of party strife.	.
On the TTse of Sig Words.
Nothing can he more foolish than the pleasure some people Lake in using big words. They are careful always to have an abundant supply, and they fancy they will not be thought learned or clever unless they employ them without restriction. But this is a great mistake. The indiscriminate use of big words always betrays a weak mind or a veiy depraved taste; and is avoided by all sensible people. Using big words, however, is not absolutely prohibited; in many learned professions it is unavoidable. In a treatise on Geology or Botany for instance, we expect to find scientific and ponderous words: and in their place they are both appropriate and serviceable. It is the abuse, not the use, that is condemned. Young people especially are much given to this habit, and far from considering it a fault, they look upon it as no mean accomplishment.
Everything they write, even their, conversation on the most ordinary occasion*, is filled with the most unwieldy words the language contains. For instance, if a person is dangerously ill, they will ask if there are any symptoms of approaching dissolution. If there is anything they can’t explain, they will attribute it to some electrical phenomena or optical delusion. When asked a simple question in place of saying I don’t know; they make use of such expressions as, “not knowing I cannot presume to substantiate.” They speak of philosophy as a concatination of ideas,- of milk as the concentrated quintescence of clover; of the barber as a dermatologist or professor of the tonsorial art. If they have a cold, they cure themselves by the mercurial influences of hydropathy. If anyone insults him, he is called a vituperator. When a mosquito bites them, they are excessively annoyed by an infinitely diminutive parasitic insect of the first order.	■
Such affectation is simply disgusting; and if people who undertake to use big words were only aware of the responsibility they incur they would be more cautious. The most distinguished writers and conversationalists are they who are able to make choice and proper use of common, words; and it1 is a perfection which very few attain. To suppose that bulky words are the most forcible and expressive is a great error. Like landsmen at sea they are often an obstacle rather than a help; and instead of being any assistance are generally in the way. A witty Spanish writer says: “ We know by the sound of a bell when it is cracked; and in the same manner, we know by a man’s words how his head is affected.” This is a very happy comparison. Big words are the sounds which come from cracked heads. A celebrated author in writing to a young friend, gives him a piece of advice which many would do well to remember. He says: “ If you wish to shine in conversation, if you desire to become a popular writer or an' eloquent speaker, above all things, avoid using big words.”	F. B. F.
The Devolution appreciates the young ladies of Memphis, who have bound themselves not to marry, unless their chosen lovers will give them diamond rings. “Bless those noble girls!” it enthusiastically exclaims; “a society of young men ought now to be formed, each member binding himself not to marry any girl who is not possessed of a fifty dollar chignon.
. The following letter was addressed from a learned proprietor of an Academy of Externs, to his brother-in-law:	■
,	,	Cosmopolitan City,
Seven Hundred and Seventy-seventh Paved'
Way, Between two Rows of Houses, Twenty-seventh of the Twelfth Month, Eighteen ’
Eundred and Seventy.
3fy Dear Obediah:—It is an antiquated proverb that elongated menacing ultimately arrives. I have got a little measure of duration now since our disciples of literature made their exit—and also my frigid companion is making signs of departure— though at intervals I am perplexed with a convulsion on my lungs; but there is scarcely an individual in this metropolis exempt from it; it is also accompanied by a sharp serum from the glands about that part containing the organ of thought and sensation, and the thorax, it conquassates the whole system, and produces atrabilarian.
I trust you have not been troubled with this perfidious malady. You must use great precaution and do not apply yourself to too much atramental occupation.
I recommend you a considerable share of cachin-nation,and to observe ataraxsy as much as possible. I shall only attinge on this subject for the present, for I have not the gift of atticism. The elements make me feel desidiose, they are so inconsistent and partake of the quality of forming different appearances.
My dear Obediah, your reciprocal intelligences have been very delectable. I have perused them with intense interest; so much so, that they completely intenerated my seat of life, and brought my visual organs to a state of delacrymation.
Oh, my dear Obediah! the ademption of your society is a cause of very great amanitude to us all; it used to invigorate us so much, and keep us from atrabilariousness. .	•
I never before felt my seat of life so elided about you since the first epoch of my Initial knowledge of you; and I now keenly perceive the Veracity of that antiquated proverb, that “opposition to presence makes the organ of existence pleas: d in a higher degree.” Often, in my imaginary phantasms, do I see you by autopsy of your propitious countenance and the lovely camerated brows which adorn your organs of sight.	.
Dearest Obediah, your two little descei dants of conjugal endearment, now in the state of adohsence are salubrious and are requiting us all to a gratification by their general demeanor and peculiar ways, and are daily progressing in their intellectual advances—they are totally devoid of didacitv.
I heard it exsuffolated the other day that there is a deuterogamy about to take place, in the man-' sion of Mr. Bartholemew Catherwood.
All your eleemosynary friends are lamenting your opposition to presence, and only derive consolation from the confidence of a future event of your return.
Not being possessed of any more modern intelligence, and as it is growing semiopacous or approaching to the crepuscule, I shall be obliged to perform the last act of ratiocination by wishing you innumerable annual returns of felicity. .
And now, my dear Obediah, place confidence in my veracity, when I asseverate that I am Your everlasting one joined to another, by mutual benevolence and intimacy, opposed to foe or enemy,	Solomon Underwood. '
Obediah Fleetwood, Esq.
As an old woman was lately walking through one of the streets of Paris at midnight, a patrol allied out, “Who’s there?” “It is I, patrol,” she replied, “don’t be afraid!”
A Boston lady, being asked if she was an admirer of*Trollope’s novels, replied: “Yes, I have always been a Trollopologer.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ths late Phenomenal.
In a late issue of the Scholastic there appeared an essay entitled, “The Goose.” That essay was from my pen. I prefer to use a knife in the discussion of such subjects, because I think that one’s readers are more likely to appreciate the developments of the latter than of the former instrument in the elucidation of ornithological questions. I propose, in this paper, to make a few remarks on the late phenomenon, vulgarly called: “I-never-saw-anything-like-this Did-you?” Left to myself, I would instinctively have called this phenomenon frost; but every one I meet stops me and points to the bent trees and bushes, and calls it the unrepeatable name I have given. At this point I am led to inquire: Of what, then, is this phenomenon composed ? Without stopping to answer this question, I am of opinion that the thing itself is not, scientifically speaking, beneficial to trees and plants, whether we regard their present appearance or their future prospects. On beholding this phenomenon for the first time, I had an idea of writing a poem about it, but my views on the subject were more or less modified by the Editor, whom I met in the woods, a few days ago, while I was contemplating the situation. Says I to myself, thinking there was nobody near, “ what a glorious subject for a poem!”
“ What nonsense!” These words came over my shoulder. I was annoyed at this interruption. I therefore said:
“ Was that an echo, or an inspiration that interrupted me?”
“ It was neither the one nor the other,” replied the same voice.
“Then what was it?” says I.
“It was and is the Editor of the Scholastic,” was the answer.
“ I see it was and is," says I, turning around.
“ Do you consider this fair?” says I.
“ I do,” says he.
“ That’s cool," says I.
“ All around is cool,” says he.
“ I can’t deny it,” says I.
“ There are other things you can’t deny, as well as that,” says he.
“ What’s that?” says I.
“Well,” says he, “you have promised, more times than I can count, to write something decent for the Scholastic, and all I ever got from you was that senseless thing on a goose.”
“ Do you call that senseless?” says I.
“ I do,” says he.
“In my opinion, that’s not complimentaiy,” says I.
“I’m not here to pay compliments,” says he; “ but I am here to make you keep your promise, and give me something for the next issue of the Scholastic.”
“I can’t refuse that invitation,” says I; “but what ’ll I write about?”
1 “ About anything but yourself,” says he.
“Don’t you think you’re pretty plain-spoken?" says I.	_
“ That’s what’s the matter,” says he.
“ I’ll write,” says I, “ about the present appearance of things, and describe the impressions, results and disastrous consequences of one night’s atmospheric eccentricities, and call the product “The late Phenomenon. How will that do ?”
“ The subject is an admirable one,” says he, “ if you can treat it properly."
“I believe I can do it,” sal’s I.
“ My faith is not quite as strong as yours is in that regard," says he; “but go on and try it, anyhow.”	'
“It has no reason to be,” says I.
“Will you go home and write?” says he.
“ I will,” says I.
I went home and got things in order to write. This brings me back to the subject. I think, there-
A Lot of Puzzles.
“Two brothers,” began the Professor, impressively, addressing the hostess, “were walking together down the street, and one of them, stopping at a certain house, knocked at the door, observing, 11 have a niece here who is ill.’ 1 Thank heaven,’ observed the other, ‘ I have got no niece,’ and he walked away. Now how could that be?”
“ Why, it’s a riddle 1” exclaimed Mr. Funnidog, delightedly.
“And one that you will not guess in a huny, simple as it is,” observed the Professor confidently. “ Come, ladies and gentlemen, solve the problem.”
“I see----ejaculated Mrs. Housewife.
“ Hush! whisper in my ear,” cried Puzzleton, with all the excitement of a child with a top. “ Don’t let ’em hear it. Niece by marriage. Stuff and nonsense. The thing is not any foolish kind of catch at all;” and once more he glanced with hostility at Funnidog, as much as to say, “ Such as he would ask you.” Nothing can be simpler than my question. “ I’ve got a niece that’s ill,” says one brother. “ Thank heaven, I have not got a niece,” says the other. How can that be ? You all give it up? “Well, the invalid was his daughter.”
“ Oh, I see,” said Mrs. Housewife despondingly.
“ How very stupid in us not to find it out.”
“Yes, indeed, ma’am,” answered the remorseless savant. “ That failure only shows how difficult it is for ordinary minds to grasp more than one idea at the same time. The attention is solely fixed on the different varieties of nieces.”
“ And also,” observed Mr. Aloes (who was much displeased at being classed among “ ordinary minds,”) “ and also, the attention is naturally distracted from the point at issue by the brutality of the father’s remark. Now, that is in itself ‘a catch,’ in my opinion.”
“ Well, sir, I will giveyou anothersimple exercise for the understanding that has no such distracting element,” observed the Professor, coolly. “ A blind beggar had a brother. This brother died. What relation were they to one another? Come, tell me that.”
“ Why, they were brothers,” exclaimed the Colonel, with the rapidity of a small boy at the bottom of his class and hopes to gain promotion.
fore, that the late phenomenon is certainly wonderful, if not strange. Considering it as the work of one night, I look upon it as a rare occurrence at this season of the year. I believe its appearance would be simply impossible in the month of July. At present its effects are quite visible to the naked eye. Several trees have broken limbs, and other weeds seem to suffer in proportion. Rose-buds and shoe-flies are scarce just now, and seem to have become remarkably ice-olated under the contracting influences of this singular phenomenon. Skating is rather unsteady, with a strong tendency to sudden’rises and falls. 'Sleighing is played out. The ancients considered this season as liable to changes, as can be readily seen by consulting any of their revised almanacs. I notice that considerable injury is inflicted on hen-coops and similar abodes. All around, in fact, a magnificent spectacle is presented to the pen of the poet, and the brush of the painter, except he be a resident of a fruit-growing district. Destruction and death are rampant everywhere, and deceased Nature seems to be laid out in state in a shroud of ice on a bier of snow. Over the broken trees the dying ones are bent in sorrow, and weep for their fallen brethren until the tears hang like brilliant pearls, in the shape of icicles, from their fraternal eyes.
In conclusion, I would remark that the return of the late phenomenon is neither predicted nor desired. I am satisfied that a great many well-meaning persons were displeased with its appearance, and would rather not see it again. It don’t suit them.	S. J. S.
“No, sir,” answered the Prof.ssnr, regarding Thunderbomb with interest asa significant type of some low order of intelligence, “they were not brothers, or I should have scarcely asked the question.”	'
“They might be brothers-in-law,” suggested Funnidog.
“Undoubtedly they might,” replied Puzzleton, with a pitying smile; “but they were not.”
“ Stop a bit,” said McPherson, hurriedly, like one who has not got his answer quite ready, but yet doesn’t wish to be anticipated. “'The blind b. ggar, you say, had a brother, and the brother died. Well, of course, if one was dead, you know they could not be brothers any longer.”
“The idea is novel,” observed the Professor, gravely; “but you have not hit on the exict solution. The fact is, gentlemen and ladies, a blind beggar may be either male or fem.de. In this instance she was a female. They were brother and sister.”
“ I cdl that a catch,” said Aloes, gloomily.
“Well, at all events, it was an easy one, and you. all missed it,” returned the Professor with quiet triumph. “Now,” I will give you one more, example of social arithmetic, which will be in all, respects bona jide. It is a simple question in substraction, and all I shall ask of you is—since two-or three guesses would arrive at the truth by mere elimination—to write down the reply on paper. A man went into a cobbler’s and bought a pair of boots for sixteen shillings. He put down a sovereign (twenty shillings) and the cobbler, having no change, sent to a neighboring public house, and gave it to him. Later in the day the landlord of the inn sent in to say that the sovereign was a bad one, and insisted upon the cobbler making it right, which he accordingly did. Now, how much did the cobbler lose by the whole transaction? Thera is no play upon words, nor anything but a common sum in arithmetic.” “ Why it’s the easiest thing in the world,” ejaculated Housewife; “of course, the cobbler lost just—”	.
“Be quiet, sir,” cried Puzzleton, very angrily; “write it down, will you—if you can write.”
“Scratch a professor and you find a Tartar,” whispered Aloes. “You had better do as he wishes.”
So we wrote down what we imagined to be the loss which the cobbler had sustained; and it was wonderful how opinions differed within such narrow limits.
The Colonel made him lose two pounds.
Mr. Aloes made him lose just a pound and the boots.
Mr. Funnidog made him lose six and thirty shillings.
Mr. McPherson made him lose sixteen shillings and the boots, minus the profit he made upon the boots (which, said the Professor, it is not necessary to take into consideration.)
Mrs. Scale Hill, who used to investigate the bills of extortionate Swiss landlords, set down the loss with confidence at twelve shillings and the boots.
Housewife wrote: “ Why, of course, he lost the boots and twenty-four shillings.”
Mrs. Housewife and the ladies bittheir pens, but declined to commit themselves. “ They had never been taught,” they said, “ the Rule of Three.”
“ You are all wrong,” said the Professor quietly, “ as I expected you would be. The way to get at the matter is to consider what is gained. The landlord, and the whole story of his changing the sovereign may be taken out of the question, since he is neither better nor worse for the transaction. The buyer of the boots gets in exchange for his bad sovereign four shillings and a pair of boots, and that is just what the cobbler loses.” .
“If one only had a room to one's self, and the whole day before one to do it in," sighed Mrs. Housewife, “I think I could answer any of these questions.”—Exchange.
4
N OT-R E DAME . SCHOLASTIC.
IfluTRc ^ame Scholastic.
PCBLISOBD AT
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
AU communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Noire Dame P. O., Indiana.
TERMS: One year....................................$100
Copies of the publication can be obtained at the Students' Office.
Bii'GRATht has always been interesting; since the time Heroditns gave his charming “ Lives,” to the present period, when obituaries of noted men are faithfully written up, year by year, long before they die, that when death comes to put a stop to any additional particulars, the obituary may be ready for next morning’s issue of the paper, cvery-body has taken delight in reading an account of men’s lives. The great liking men have for it is, we presume, a branch of the curiosity all have of knowing what their neighbors are doing and have done—minding other people’s business.
It seems, therefore, very strange that Catholics, who have such a fund from which biographies can be made, pay so little attention to it,—take so little care in working up the material they have on hand. It may in part be attributed to the very great quantity on hand that little bits of it are but rarely em-befiished with all the ornaments of style, that add so much to the interest of a book. But, certainly, while such works as Butler’s Lives of the Saints give the foundation for more extended notices of the lives of the great men and women whose names are recorded in the Martyrology of the Church, or in the Calendar, it would be for the interest of education and religion to have many of these lives put in a more extended and popular form.
Those who oppose the Church make a great deal ■more out of very scanty material than Catholics do with their abundant supply. Much fuss is made . over the ex-monk Luther and the wife-killing Kang Henry, the great champions of those who.oppose the Church; and their great poet, casting about to Anda hero for his epic outside the Church, not finding any among the mortals of his persuasion, hit upon the devil, and put forth the whole strength of his great genius to present his satanic hero in the best possible light. The good will shown by Milton iu dressing up his hero in presentable shape, should be a lesson to those engaged in a better work, and teach them to be as diligent in laying before the public the good qualities of the great men of christendom, as he was in rehabilitating the character of the enemy of mankind.
Another thing strikes us as strange; it is that in Catholic colleges and schools so little attention is paid to teaching the deeds of the heroes of christendom. How little is known of the lives of Ignatius, Polycarp, Sebastian, Vincent, Augustine, Chtysos-tom, Jerome, Francis of Assisium, Francis of Sales, and others equally renowned in the annals of Christianity, the mere category of whose names would fill pages.
It may be said that reading of the lives of such men is “rather too pious” for young men and women, who by no means aspire to be saints, but on the contrary think it “quite the thing” to boast of being sinners. Yet any one, who knows anything about the matter, knows full well that there is a great deal of good in these sinners, that much of the affectation of being sinners, and of “not bemg pious," is a very great piece of hypocrisy, and that down deep in their hearts there is a deep veneration for all that is really good and beautiful ; now if the same care were taken to place the lives and deeds of real men and women, in an interesting form, before them, they would have a greater
relish for them than they now have for namby pamby tales and sensational novels.
We have merely drawn attention to this subject to-day, and intend to speak of it again, unless these few words induce others to treat the subject fully. We were led to write these few lines by the knowledge that some who are well fitted to supply the want of popular biographies of the great heroes of christendom, fritter away their time on other subjects of far less importance.
All Around, the University.
Hurrah for the examination!
The bulletins will be sent to the parents during the course of next week.
The certificates for good conduct and improvement. in class, will be delivered at the close of the Examination.
The written examination commenced on Thurs-. day, 26th Inst., and continued two days. Saturday, Sunday and Monday, the 23, 30 and 31, will be devoted to the oral examination.
i
•J The skating has been in excellent condition for several days past. Seniors and Juniors, and Minims ditto, took a lively interest in the winter sport. All the students (who had skates) did go skating!
The Mond Philosophy Class—the ne plus ultra of the University—salva T/iedogia, was examined Tuesday, the 24th iust, in the President’s parlor. This class has worked faithfully and accomplished much.
A musical soiree will be held Sunday, 29th inst., in the large parlor of the University. Prof Corby’s vocal class and the best instrumentalists will do the honors of the evening. As this soiree is the first of the season we expect a rich treat
The terpsichoreans of the Senior Department return their most sincere thanks to Mr. James Martin, for his kindness in.furnishing them with good music. He plays in excellent time, and those who love to “trip the light fantastic toe,” cannot fail to appreciate it We hope his kindness will not remain long unrewarded.
The Study Halls are undergoing a grand metamorphosis, especially that of the Seniors. The prefect’s desk of the latter has been moved from the north end to the east side of the building, and the place it formerly occupied is being fitted up with a beautiful niche, in which will be placed the statue of the Blessed Virgin, which now stands in the front hall.
Nothing could be more easily organized than a splendid Vesper choir. Let only the singers understand what they are about. They certainly will, if they pay a slight attention to the leader’s direction. And, by the way, the leader should be prominently seen, and call the attention of all to his baton. Plain chant is as susceptible of government as the veiy best music. In Rome they have generally an organ for each side of the choir; there the division' between the two singing portions of the choir is well marked. Here the same can be accomplished with one organ just as well. We would dare pray the organist to play a little louder, and we warrant that the next trial will be a success, if—-yes, if,—the choir rehearses a few times!
Arrivals,
Edward J. Ryan, Grand Rapids, Mich.
Frank E. Egan,	Nashville, Tenn.
James A Finley,	Springfield, ID.
Edward McNulty,	New Dublin, Ind.
Richard Fahey,	Marion, Ohio. .
John H. Keenan,	Lindsay, Canada West.
-The Morale of the Session.
A retrospective glance over the session which is about to close seems natural and proper at this time. Now, that the first race is run, we may as well pause a while, and contemplate the field over which we have gone. A review like this wDl rest us from our labors, and will give us time to take breath before we resume our task. They must be pleasing, the thoughts of a well-spent day.
They must be especially gratifying to the weaiy, hard-working student, who receives the approbation of his own conscience, and feels assured that he has done weU what he undertook to do. Day after day he labored sDently, unceasingly, careless of his own comfort, keeping high his aim and pi easing onward io attain it For him who has been veiy successful, owing to the remarkable talents with which he has been endowed, the pleasure derived from the consideration of a duty weD performed is considererably enhanced by the evidence of his progress. His labors are fully repaid thus far, and his future success becomes only a question of time. With increasing knowledge, self-reliance and manliness have also been developed. He is no longer the boy, bashful and unlearned; he has become a man who thinks and reflects. He cultivated his mind, enriched it and trained it; and behold ! his soul was likewise adorned with all tho rich gifts that render man amiable, and fit him for his right place in society. It would be an unnatural exception to find a studious, well-lettered young man, any thinglesstban a politeycnlfemaa. Whatever elevates and ennobles the mind cannot fail to react on the soul; and, therefore, the more the mind is cultivated, the more the soul is beautified, and its noblest faculties drawn from their germs.
At Notre Dame this invariable rule makes no exception, and finds many proofs to substantiate it. The better the student, the greater his progress and the better the man; and in inverse direction, the worse the student, the smaller his progress and the meaner the man.
' The perfect student is the most pleasing companion and the most polite pupil. Take him wherever you like, you will find him true to his character. Excdsior! is his motto. He will not be unfaithful to it In conversation, he rules by mode-ty and amiability; his sense of right a..d wrong guards him against abuse and vituperations. In actions, he is unassuming, and yet his example gives the tone to the general behavior. In the same proportion, that the bad student is shnnm d and held in contempt, the good student is honored and respected.
These remarks strike us more forcibly al the end of a session than at any other time, beiausc it is then that we pause a while to reflect upo.. th< past, and consider the gains or the locses which have been made during the session.
During a tedious journey we are apt be distracted by the fatigues and the distance; but when the goal is reached, we rest ourselves, wipe our . sweating brows, and look around. We have then a comprehensive view of the space travelled over and we take a lively pleasure in casting a giatics.- at each of our comyaguous de voyage, just to see how each one looks.
Some are fatigued, but yet full of spirils and ready to continue the route. They came up smartly, and but for the sake of companionship would have distanced us long ago, Others took it easy, and showed no disposition to run away. At times they needed a word of encouragement, no more; they kept pace with us. Others s»ood away behind. It was horribly fatiguing to travel up ••uch roads in an unknown country. They gave itup ten times, and ten times they bethought themselves to go a little farther, lest they might be Jost; and now we meet them, at last, weak and weary. We have no word ofharsh complaint against them; we refrain from anything that might discourage them.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
But why should we speak of the stragglers ? Are they so conspicuous as to attract our attention, or so numerous as to be noticed ’ We think not. One or two, here and there, have failed to do their part; the large majority have accomplished their duty manfully and creditably to themselves and their Professors. It is therefore our pleasing duty to testify to their earnest and perserving application and to say to them that the work of the session has been well done. Stores of knowledge have been acquired; art and science have been cultivated; virtue and the noblest qualities of the soul have been developed and perfected; solid foundations have been laid, upon which moral and spiritual edifices may be safely reared, and now the future appears bright and smiling. Praises and congratulations are due to the students while high encomiums are deservedly owing to the Faculty to whose untiring labors and devotednes, the success of the session may be ascribed.
Let the past be a guarantee of the future and let the future be like the past, we can ask for no more; and when the sun of June shall shine on us once more and tell us that the labors of the year are ended, we will gladly retire to the dulce otium of vacations with full confidence that the year 1870-71 has been a year of success for Notre Dame, and of progress for her students.
Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPATMENT.
January 13—P. O’Connell, J. M. Glynn, J. Rourke, W. Crenshaw, J. R. Heine, Thos. Dundon, J. T. Mulquin, D. Hudson, Jas. Wilson. Wm. Hughes.
January 20—D. D. Evans, Thos. O’Mahoney, John Gearin, W. J. Clarke, J. Hogan, Thos. Ireland, P. Finnegan, Chas. Wheeler, W. E. Roberts.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
January 13—Vincent Hackmann, F. Joseph, S. Ashton, D. Egan, C. Vinson, T. Foley, C. Ortmayer, L. McOsker, E. Shea, B. Luhn, J. Ward.
January 20, 1871—Geo. Lyons, Palmer S. McDonnell, J. Ireland, J. Quill, J. Heinz, C. Morgan, J. Wuest, A. Ransom, W. Meyers, J. Spillard, P. Scott.	M. A. J. B., Sec.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
December 19tZ<—H. Quan, G. Gross, F. Butters, J. OAIcara, J. Deehan, J. Cordonna.
January Uth—L. Montidonico, H. O’Brian, R. Dougherty, S. Hopkins, E. Reagan, W. Morris.
In Rustication, •	1
Near Clinton, Jan. 17.1871. J
My Dear Friend:—Is it not astonishing what a difference there is between the “girls of the period” and the ladies—even royal ladies—of former days. The latter were not ashamed to be perfectly familiar with every detail of domestic economy, and glory as much in a thorough knowledge of household affairs, as their unworthy modern representatives do in the want of it. These reflections were forced upon me by a perusal of the zEneid—the solace of my present wearisome leisure. How beautifully does the fourth book open: “At Regina yruri jamdudeni sauna cura," showing that Dido, amidst all the cares of state, found time to attend to the gravy, Jam and sauces, without which a royal menage would be unendurable!
Mr. Editor: I need hardly say that “S.,” and none other, is guilty of the above. Is it not worthy of a place beside the following, lately reported from a certain Ctesar class: “Lauti cibum. capiunt Germani,” which was rendered thusly: “The Germans, having washed their food, take arms.”
South Bend has five artesian wells, but does not make as much fuss about it as other cities do, which have but one.—Register.
Notice of Publications.
The Musical Independent- Healy & Lyon; Chicago. $2 per Annum.
The College World published by the students of Griswold College. The successor of the Griswold Collegian. We wish it success.
The Printers Circular for January, is the finest specimen of typography that comes to this office. Philadelphia 515, Minor street, fl per Annum.
The Gardener's Monthly, edited by T. Meehan, and published by Brinkloe & Marot; 23 North Sixth street. The best periodical of its kind in the United States. Terms: $2 per Annum.
Peters' Musical Monthly, (St. Louis) for January contains a selection of excellent vocal and instrumental music. The Monthly can be had by addressing J. L. Peters & Co., 212, North Fifth street, St. Louis, Mo. Terms: $3 per Annum.
The Catholic World for February contains many articles of interest: Sixtus the Fifth; Dr. Newman’s Grammar of Assent; Early Missions in Acadia; New England in the Sixteenth century, and others. Published by the Catholic Publication House, (P. 0. Box 6,396); No 9 Warren street. Terms: $5 per year, in advance.
The National Farmer and Horticultural Reois-• ter. Brinkloe & Marot; Philadelphia; 23 N. sixth street. $1 per Annum.
Reception by the Clergy and Laity or B altimore, Washington an Georgetown, of his Grace the Most Rev. Archbishop Spalding. Baltimore: Published by J. Murphy & Co.
Pastoral Letter or the Most Rev. F. N. Blanchet, D. D., Archbishop of Oregon, concerning the two first Dogmatic Conititutions of the Ecumenical Vatican Council. Portland, Oregon.
The Electic Series of Geographies, Embracing a Mathematical, Physical and Political description of the Earth; with Lessons on Map Drawing; by A. Von Steinwehr and D. G. Britton.
We have received this excellent series, consisting of a Primary, an Intermediate, and a school Geography. Not having leisure to examine the books carefully before the issue of this number of the Scholastic, we gave them into the hands of one conversant with the subject of Geography, and who has been teaching the branch for many years. He says in a note to us:
Having looked t^roush the three books of the Eclectic Series of Geographies, I find that they are well arranged. I like especially the division of the three parts of the thfrd book; the second part, which treats of Physical Geography, contains just enough of matter for the purpose intended. I think the maps and engravings are very well executed, though the names and objects on the maps are rather small to suit my ideas, if I were to teach the books. There is one feature I like very much, and that is his plan of explaining the positions of the different bodies of water—rivers, lakes, etc., after the division to which they belong.
Mr. Cyrus Smith, W. Washington st., Tndianpolis, Ind.’, is agent for this series of Geographies, and will send single specimen copies, by mail, forexamination with a view to introduction.
An item is going the rounds of the papers to the effect that the largest ruim in the world is a Rhode Island cotton mill. Ths dimensions of this room are said to be 750 feet long by 76 wide. Elkhart has one considerably larger. The main building of the new railroad shop (Lake Shore and' Michigan Southern) at this place is 600 feet long by 123 wide—nearly one third larger than the Rhode Island room.—EVchart Review.
Oral ExaBUOfttioo.	. -
Boards of Examiners.	.
Very Rev. W. Corby, S.S.C., President and gen- ' era! supervisor.	,
classical board.	.
Rev. A. Lemonnier, S.S.C-, presiding.
Rev. P. Lauth, S.S.C.	■ -
Rev. J. Lauth, S.S.C.
Mr. J. O’Connell, S.S.C.	■
Prof. J. A, Lyons, A. M.
Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M., Secretary.
Prof. P. Foote, L. L. B. scientific board.	.
Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C., presiding. . -j
Rev. T. L. Vagnier, S.S.C.	•
Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M., Secretary. ...
Prof. W. Ivers, A. M.	.
Prof. D. A. Clarke, B. S.
BOARD OF ENGLISH BRANCHES.
Rev. M. B. Brown, S.S.C.	--
Rev. Jacob Lauth, S.S.C.
Prof. M. T. Corby, A. M.	■
Prof. J. ORielly, A. B., Secretary.
Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C.	- ■- 1.
Bro. Ephram, S.S.C.	- -	-
Bro. Albert, S.S.C.	'	-
Mr. F. Bigelow, S.S.C.	■	• '
Mr. D. Tighe, S.S.C.	•
Bro. Emanuel, S.S.C.	- *
Bro. Celestine, S.S.C.	-
Bro. James, S.S.C.	■	• -
COMMERCIAL BOARD.	.
Very Rev. W. Corby, S.S.C., presiding. * t	•
Rev. A Lemonnier, S.S.C.	'	’*
Prof. L. G. Tong, M. A., Secretary.	'
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.	'
Prof W. Ivers, A. M.	'
Prof M. T. Corby, A. M.	" ,
BOARD OF MODERN LANGUAGES.	*
Rev. A. Lemonnier, S.S.C.	-
Rev. P. Lauth, S.S.C.
Rev. J. Lauth, S.S.C.
Rev. Jacob Lauth, S.S.C.	,
R§Bf. Chemin.
ProCM. A. J. Baasen, Secretary.	_
Programme of the Examination and Synods* of the Matter in which the Classes will be Respectively
Examined.
classical course.
Moral Philosophy—Author, Manier. Matter seen in this Class duriag the past session, 1, Dialectics^	;
2, General theory of Certainty; 3, Historical Cer-j	'
tainty; 4, Historical Criticism; 5, Systems opposed to the Principles of Certainty examined ; 6, Method;	'
or the System of Scientific Investigation.
First Latin Class—All ofBullions Latin Grammar;;	=
all of Casserly’s Prosody; seventy-eight pages of '	;
Anthon’s Versification—Cox’s Mythology—An-	:
cient Geography—third and tenth Satires of Ju-	>
venal—10 pages of Quintillian— all of Harkness’ .	.
Prose Composition—Ancient History—Lamshorn’s-	'
Latin Synonyms	.	•
Second Latin Class—Ara Poetica of Horace—20	?
pages Livy—223 pages of Arnolds Prose Composi-	;
tion—60 pages of Casserly’s Prosody—all of Bull-	“
ions Latin Grammar—Ancient Geography.	'
Third Latin Class—Cicero’s Orations 1st and Snd	■
Cat, and Poet Arcbias exercises 25th to 45 th.
Fourth. Latin Class—Bullions Grammar—50	i
rules—all of Prosody—Prose Composition 40 exer- ■	I
cises Sallust—Conspiracy of Cataline, 25 Chapter*.'.	1
Fifth Latin Class—All of Arnolds 1st Latin book;	;
—Etymology and 24 rules of Syntax—Bullion*	’
Latin Grammar—Casar—30 Chapters of 1st book,	|
and of 31st Chapter Bullion’s Caesar—reviewed	}
20 Chapters of same..	1

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Sixth Latin Class—This class has learned 40 exercises in Arnold and 49 Chapters in Historic Sacra:, and in Grammar it has studied the Etymology part as far as irregular verbs.
Seventh. Latin Class—Text Book Arnolds first and second Latin hook. The Class has gone through the five declensions of nouns, declensions of adjectives and the four conjugations of the verb, also 31 exercises.
Eighth Latin Class—Arnold's exercises—20 Chapters—Declensions and Conjugations as far as passive verb.
First Greek—Khhmer’s Grammar—Etymology and Syntax. Plato—Apology and Crito.
Second Greek—This class has studied, during the past session, in Memorabilia, five chapters of the first book. Kuhner’s Grammar, as far as Prosody, and Arnolds Greek Book of Exercises.
Fourth Greek—Anabasis—Book I, Chap. IX-L inclusive. Grammar—KQhner’s Greek Grammar, Chap. VTH. The Verb, page 73 as far as page 151, Exercises—Greek Ollendorff, page 154-209. Ancient Geography, Europa, page 138 as far as Islands of Greece, page 194.
Fifth Greek—Kendricks’ Greek Ollendorff, pages 15-187.
First Bcthoric (Quackenbos)—53 lessons.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
Logic—What is Philosophy? What is Logic? "What is perception or apprehension? What is a term? How many kinds of terms ? What is abstraction and generalization of terms? What is a proposition.
English Literature—Blair’s Lectures, 10-26th.“
I hysics—Ganots; books I, H, III, IV, V. Chaps. I to XVI.
Geology—"First half of Dana’s ManueL
Zoology—The Mammals.
Botany—Hirst half of Grey’s Lessons.
Mineralogy—Crystallography and Physical Proportion of Minerals.
Human Physiology—Thu first half of Dalton’s ManueL	■
Trigonometry—Whole subject.
First Geometry—Loomis’s Plane Geometry, except Book IX
Second Geometry—Plane Geometry. [Beviewed each book.
First Algebra—Page 265 to 405. Solution of Equations. Higher Degrees—Bobinson’s University Algebra.
Second Algebra—Simple Equations, except Badi-cal Equations.
Third Algebra—Bobinson’s Elementary Algebra —Equations of the First Degree. Partly reviewed.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
■ The Commercial Department has been more largely attended during the present session than in preceding years. The progress made by the students, is in every respect satisfactory. The bookkeeping is divided into four classes,- numbering, in all, from eighty to ninety students.
' The first, or graduating class, composed of twenty-five members, has seen the matter usually gone over during the last session of the course, comprising the buying and selling merchandise on private account and on commission. Buying and selling on joint account. Importing and exporting on account of others, and on account of ourselves and others in company. Banking and joint stock companies ; steamboating, etc., etc.
The second class, composed of about thirty members, has studied since September, and now completed ten sets of solid book-keeping, comprising stock and partnership books; illustrating the opening and closing in each, and exhibiting both gaining aud losing business. Commission and merchandising Co. business. Journal and day-book combined in three sets. Used the auxiliary books in one set.
The third class, numbering fifteen members, has seen the same matter gone over by the second class.
The fourth class, numbering eighteen members, commenced the study of book-keeping about November 12th; has gone over about four sets, and given very good satisfaction; it bids fair to be a first class next June.
Besides the above, the classes have all gone over the Text Book, and committed to memory the requisite rules. The first, second and third classes have studied Commercial Law, and have seen, this session the subject of contracts in full.
English Preparatory Course.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Grammar—In Bullion’s English Grammar Syntax, Analysis and Parsing—(new edition.) •
Second Grammar—Etymology and Syntax.	,
Fourth Grammar—Text Book,Bullion’s Practical Grammar, from the commencement to page 128, with the exception of the treatise on the analysis of sentences, which extends from page 88 to page 100.
First Grammar—Etymology.and Analysis.
First Arithmetic—From Percentage page 259, to Alligation page 370, Bobinson’s University.
Second Arithmetic—Interest.	"
Third Arithmetic—Text Book, Bobinson’s Practical Arithmetic—page 86, to page 205.
Fourth Arithmetic—From beginning to page 150.
Fifth Arithmetic—Elementary Bules.	’
Beading Class—Metropolitan Fifth Beader. -First Class of Orthography—Wilson’s Larger Speller, page 32 to page 141, Northend’s Dictation Exercises from page 22 to page 40.
• Second Class of Orthography—Same as First.
Geography and U. S. History—Guyot’s Common School Geography, and Goodrich’s Pictorial History of U. S.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Grammar—The members of this class reviewed Etymology in thebeginningof the session. Studied all the principal and special Bules of Syntax and reviewed from the first to the tenth Bule, parsed in “ Progressive Exercises.”
Third Grammar—Etymology and Syntax.
Fourth Grammar—Etymology.	.
Fifth Grammar—From page 9 to page 3G.
First Arithmetic—Percentage page 259 to Life Insurance page 292—reviewed fractions, Bobinson’s University Arithmetic.
Second Arithmetic—Bobinson’s Practical Arithmetic, page 150 to page 205.	-
Third Arithmetic—Studied from beginning to Decimal.
Fourth Arithmetic—From beginning to page 150.
Fifth Arithmetic—From page 69 to page 102. ■
First Beading—First Division—Parts I-H of Metropolitan Fifth Beader.
First Beading—Second Division—From beginning to page 420 in Fifth Metropolitan Beader.
Second Beading—Through Fourth Metropolitan Beader.
Third Beading—Through Fourth Metropolitan Beader.
First Orthography—Through Wilson’s Larger Speller.
First Orthography—Second Division—Through Wilson’s Speller.	'
Second Orthography—From beginning to the end of the book.	■	-	'
Third Orthography—100 pages of Wilson’s Speller.
First Geography—Studied “ Position of Cities ” in Guyot’s Intermediate Geography.
First Catechism—From beginning to page 50.
Second Catechism—From beginning to page 50. Languages.
First French—The whole grammar of Noel and Chapsal, with exercises on Cacography—page 206 to 250. In French literature, from Philippe de Comines to Bacinc—page 56 to 230.
Second French—Fasquelle’s Grammar—from beginning to page 100.
Third French—Fasquelle’s Grammar—from beginning to page 50.
First German—The whole of Woodbury’s Method of teaching German. In Meusen’s Grammar, to page 72. In Adler’s Beader, the stray of the “Childwith the Lion.”	.
First German (Jr.)—Meunsen’s Sprnchlchre, Etymology. Beviewcd.
Second German—76 Exercises in Woodbury’s Method. Etymology, as far as the Adverb. .In Adler’s Beader, from page 1 to 39.
Second German (Jr.)—Beader—Adler’s, page 1 to 61. Exercises—Woodbury's page 20 to 117. Grammar—Woodbury’s §68, Verbs, page 323 as far as §124. Syntax, page 417. Composition—Letterwriting—translating—German handwriting.
Third German—Ahn’s Method—seventy exercises. Grammar, as faras the Verb, inclusively. Ten stories of translation.
Third German (Jr.)—Beader, Ahn’s, Part II, page 104 to 134. Grammar, Ahn’s, Chap. VI, Verb, page 26, to the end of the book. Exercises, Ahn’s 50 to 81; page 45 to 70. Writing, Letter-writing and German penmanship.
Fourth German—Exercises, Ahn’s, Ex. 1 to 57. Beading, Alin’s, ten pieces. German Penmanship.
LAW DEPARTMENT.
First Class—The matter passed through in this class during the first session of the present academic year, embraced the subjects of “Criminal Law,” and the “Law of Evidence” in their various subdivisions and details. The text-books used in the course of instruction are, Bishop on “Criminal Law,” and Greenleaf on “ Evidence.”
Second Class—The course of instruction in the second class of Law, during the session just named, embraced “ Common Lawthe Bights of Persons,” the “Bights of Things;” the “Law of Contracts” in its different divisions, and the “Law of Practice and Pleading.” Parson on “ Contracts;’’ Cooley’s excellent edition of “ Blackstone’s Commentaries,” and Chitty on “ Practice and Pleading ” are the text-books most generally used by the class during the first session of the law-studies.
The application and the progress of both classes have been most excellent, and worthy of great commendation.
Chou Meeting1.
In pursuance of a request of the Bev. Father Granger,Superior and Prefect of Beligion, a meeting was held in Prof. C. A. B. Von Weller’s room, to take into consideration the means of making some radical improvements in the Church choir. The meeting was largely' attended by the Beverend Clergy', the Brothers of the Congregation, the Professors and Students of the College. As was requested by the Veiy Bev. Superior, Prof. Von Weller assumed the chair and called the meeting to order. One of the Salvatorist Novices was appointed Secretaiy, and the object of the meeting was briefly explained by the Chairman. ■ At the conclusion of his remarks, the Chairman introduced the Bev. Dr. W. J. Quinn, S.S.C. Father Quinn, on rising, said that he could commence his remarks . in no better way than by reading to the meeting the letter of the Bev. Superior, which is as follows:
January 19,1871, ) Notre Dame University. J
“Nothing is more manifest in the spirit of Holy Church, than her desire to make everything conduce to the greater glory of God. Hence her love of precision, decorum, and piety in .all the practices of prayer and song which accompany her ceremonial of worship. With reference to Sacred Chant, she has consecrated an exclusive and hallowed form of her own, composed and written by the highest musical talents that ever lived,—in this form of canticle she justly prides herself, and to it she is anxious to enlist conformity and obedience.
“ Her illustrious Pontiff, Benedict XIV, in his encyclical letter of February 19, 1749, says :
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
‘ This chant (meaning the sacred and Gregorian) is one that elevates the souls of the faithful: and when it is rightly and beflttingly executed in the Church, it will be listened to more willingly by pious souls thau any other kind of song.’
“ But while cherishing a desire for this uniform and holy method of chant, she has never denied her meed of praise to the proper cultivation of all other musical study. In sacred offices while undoubtedly wishing for symmetry and solemnity, nevertheless owing to peculiar circumstances, she likewise employs every talent to enhance the beauty and majesty of religious worship.
“Now, being desirous to unite with the true spirit of the Church—we should endeavor to sing harmoniously the praises of God with one heart and one voice—thereby giving united glory to “Him” who sitteth on the throne and to the Lamb. I deem it therefore an advisable thing, that a meeting be held of a select number of the Reverend Clergy, the Professors, Seminarists, Brothers and Students under the presidency and direction of Prof. Von Weller, to consult on the matter. All are requested to exhibit^ lively and cordial interest in this very important subject.
(Signed),	A. Granger.”
“ N. B.—I have also commissioned Rev. W. J. Quinn, of the Novitiate, to read this letter to the meeting, to introduce the subject and explain details.
(Signed),	A. Granger.”
Father Quinn then proceeded to say:
Reverend Fathers and Gentlemen: It is not, I assure you, from any proficiency or mastery that I possess in Church music, that the Very Reverend Superior has chosen me to speak his views on this occ ision; perhaps this choice was made owing to the fact that I could speak from experience on the matter, from my long residence in Rome. There can be no doubt, that any one who has had the happiness of listening to the Sacred Song of Holy Church, as rendered in the Masses of Palestrina and other great composers, in the Sistine Chapel at Rome, and in other churches of continental Europe, must form a high estimate of the power and beauty of pure ecclesiastical chant. The principal of the great Latin poet regarding all good composition, viz: “Sit simplex dumtaxat et unum" applies admirably on this subject, where simplicity in conception and uniformity in execution, make Church music especially, produce the effect for which it was intended, that is, to inspire devotion and elevate the heart to prayer. Every appreciative mind must nevertheless admire and extol the grandeur and enchantment of fine music, either of a strictly secular, or more elaborate sacred nature, such as is found in the Opera or the Oratorio. We would love to havethings affect us in a sense similar to the sentiment of Longfellow in his “ Evangeline,” where he says—that
“ When she had passed, It seemed like the ceasing of exquisite music.”
But when difficult and figurative music is brought into the Church, it seems, first, out of place and not in keeping with the grave tones of prayerful songs and the solemnity of sacred worship, and moreover, requiring a cast of performers especially trained to render it with exactness and elegance, it seldom or ever conciliates in Church, the soulstirring influence it is capable of elsewhere. To judge of Church music rightly, we must lay aside the erroneous impression generally held of the so-called plain chant, viz: that it is nothing but a heavy dragging leaden loa<f, whereas when well understood according to the proper method of rendering it, the Gregorian is a truly devotional and pleasing form of singing, capable of touching all hearts and raiding our thoughts to befitting remembrance of God and our duty of religion--worship—for this it was intended, and we know how effectually it has wrought in souls alienated
from religion and prayer marvellous conversions. We are told of a tradition upheld in Rome as a fact, that so pleasing was this chant to heaven, that to the song of Pope Gregory, (and if I mistake not the Gregory whose name gives the Church’s supreme sanction to this sort of music), the angels answered Amen: from this fact at one portion of the Papal Mass, an Amen is omitted, to be rendered by the celestial choirs above. But now as to matters of small detail. To make all voices join in singing the heavenly words of song, it is contemplated to range the choir, as a body of choristers, to be dressed in surplice and cassock, and seated outside of the organ rail in benches placed vis-a-vis, so that the Psalms and Hymns may be sung in alternate choirs. By a willing and harmonious effort all difficulties can be obviated, the design of our good superiors fulfilled and God’s glory extolled. ’Tis strange that in the Episcopal Church and in other churches of our separated brethren, this very plan should be so highly prized, and singularly successful in gaining the desired end, and we children of the Faith, should alone seem reluctant to second the view and pious wish of Holy Mother Church, ’tis surely a bartering like Esta of old, our birth-right for a mess of pottage. Now, gentlemen, the matter is for you to consult upon, I leave the settlement and ulterior arrangements to the appointed president and leader, Prof. Von Weller, &c.
At the conclusion of the Rev. Doctor’s remarks, Revrs. Fathers Peter Lauth and John Lauth arose and endorsed unhesitatingly the remarks made. Brother Basil, the organist, having been called upon said that with what the Rev. Doctor had said he agreed. Mr. A. A. Brown, S.S.C. and others, remarked that they sympathized heartily with the movement.
Prof. Von Weller then arose and said that he was extremely happy that the movement that night inaugurated, had begun. He had long desired that a change of this kind should take place—that the College Choir should give to the congregation the regular music of Holy Church. He had had many conversations with the Rev. Father Superior on the subject, but that nothing had been done in the matter on account of a supposed prejudice to the Gregorian Chant. He was happy to know that such a prejudice did not exist to the extent he had supposed. He was ready, he said, to devote his heart and soul in aiding the movement which had now begun. He had been educated in the Episcopal Church, and now that he was a Catholic, it was a matter of surprise to him that we should desire to reject that which other churches were borrowing with joy from us—our old Church music—the music of Ambrose, of Leo, and of Gregory. Figured music, he said, had its beauties, but it did not leave upon the mind that lasting impression nor devotional feeling which is impressed upon the soul by the grand and sonorous Gregorian. Even the unbeliever and schismatic are forced to tears when they hear this heavenly singing in the churches of Rome. In that city—truly the “ city of the soul ” of all pious Catholics—it is the pride of the greatest singers to take part in singing in the venerable Gregorian music the praises of the Most High. Why then should we be ashamed of singing this chant—the same almost which angelic voices sang to the Great Gregory. It was now our double duty to sing in this plain chant since the Church desires and our superior orders it. This music wfll then be introduced by degrees—we will commence by singing the Antiphons, <fcc., at Vespers, and adopt it at the Introit, Gradual, &c., of the Mass. During Lent we will sing the Masses set to Gregorian music. All the choristers will be furnished with cassock and surplice, and they will take their regular places in the choir.
At the conclusion of Prof. Von Weller’s remarks, it was announced that there would be regular
practice in Gregorian music every Monday aqd Thursday nights at 7 o’clock P. M. sharp, in. the vacant Dormitory, known as St Aloysius., As the members of the choir are musicians, it is expected that they will keep ths time and be. prompt at rehearsals.	’	-	-'I
Before adjournment, Pro£ Von Weller offered an apology for Prof. M. S. Corby who was-un- ‘ avoidably absent, but who sympathized with the movement. '	.
We may remark also that Brother Leopold is in favor of the movement and would have been present but for a little mistake made in sending the notice of the meeting. The same is also'* reason for the absence of other members of'the congregation, who are pleased that the music of the Church will soon occupy its proper place. ’
_	C. •
The Miser, by Molisre. ;
This celebrated comedy was written and performed in Paris, in 1670. It was an imitation of Plautus,- but how superior to the Latin poet’s play, with regard not only to the plot, but also tqi the excellence of the language.
Plautus, in his comedy, represents a poor man who has found a treasure, and who is in a continual fear of being robbed; all the comic situations of the play are founded on this common-place idea. ’ But Molitre pictures to us a rich man, who, of all his riches, knows nothing but the pleasure of keeping them for himself; and to his thirst for gold sacrifices the happiness of his daughter and son; and his own peace and honor; and when the miserable -creature appears to the reader or spectator, as an object of hatred to his children who abandon him, and to his servants who cheat him, an object, of scorn to society, there is no one who will not sayi Served him right! This is the triumph of genius and morality combined; the most salutary lesson ever taught to misers, and if such men do not profit by it, it is simply because their vice and mrannwa are beyond redemption.
Molitire was an accomplished writer in verse and pro^^and his claim to excellence in this latter, has' never been more effectually supported, and more victoriously vindicated than in this playi “ The prose in the ‘Miser,’” says Edward Menne-chat, in his “ French Literature,” “ is the pattern of all dramatic prose; so correct and so easy is the language, so terse and so natural, that there is only one word which can do it justice—perfect!”
In a moral and literary point of view, there is no French play which better deserves translation, and which may become more acceptable, not only to young students, but to every friend of refined and moral literature.	-•
The “ Miser ” will soon be represented by .the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.	•	’ . -t
St. Edward’s. -
The fourteenth literary meeting of the above Association was held Tuesday evening, Jan. 17th.' ’
After the usual business preliminaries, Mr J. M Rourke introduced the literary exercises -with a lengthy, yet well composed criticism, after which the following gentlemen favored the association with essays: Mr. W. J. Clarke chose for his subject, “Death,” writing'in a manner that showed he had paid considerable attention to the subject Mr. Clark has the means of becoming a pleasing writer, and needs only perseverance to accomplish much. He was succeeded by Mr. J. McGahas; who described in a pleasing manner, “ASailor’s Life.” Mr. McGahan is making rapid improvement in essay writing. Mr. J. M. Rourke read an essay entitled, “Idleness.” He writes in afluent;easy style, and uses harmonious expressions. After the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
regular exercises had been concluded, the remainder of the evening was pleasantly and profitably employed in declamations.
St Cecilia Philomathean Association.
. The fifteenth regular meeting held December 18th. Very Kev. Father Corby, Rev. Father Lem-onier, Mr. Foote of Burlington Iowa, honored the Association with their presence. The exercises Consisted of declamations and essays. Those who declaimed were C, Burdell, C. Dodge, M. Mahony, J. McHugh; of the essayists, S. Ashton deserves special mention. After this V. Hackmann enlivened the entertainment by singing several of his favorite songs. Very Rev. Father Provincial expressed himself highly delighted with the enter-tatnment, after which the meeting adjourned.
The sixteenth meeting took place January. 14th. Of the declamations, C. Burdell’s and M. Mahony’s were the best.
The seventeenth regular meeting took place January 21st At this meeting J. B. Cummey presented himself for membership; and after reading a well written composition, and delivering a selection, he was unanimously elected a member. Then S. Ashton, D. Hogan, and R. Staley read Compositions; after which C. Morgan appeared to pretty good advantage in declamation.
D. Egan, Cor. Sec.
. A hot water attachment to locomotives, to be used in squirting deaf men off railroad tracks, is a utilitarian inventor’s latest achievement
“ Pete,” said a mother to her son, “ are you into them sweatmeats again?”
“No, ma’am, them sweatmates is into me.”
His Business.—A smart boy was asked by his father what business he would follow. “The marble business, and I want ten cents to buy stock.”
A gentleman named Brown once observed in company that he had toasted a lady for^^elve months, and yet had little hopes of makm^rher Brown.
George Eliot says: “Half the sorrows of women would be averted if they could repress the speech they know to be useless—nay, the speech they have resolved not to utter."	-
John Philip Kemble, while performing one evening, was interrupted by a baby crying, and in nervous excitement came forward to the footlights, and said, “ Ladies and gentlemen, if the tragedy does not stop, the baby can’t go on.”
A Frenchman was recently bargaining for a dozen sheep. “What are you about?” said a friend. “I have heard say,” replied Monsieur, “that if you want to make money you must buy sheep and sell deer. I shall buy de sheep and sell de venison."	.
' A Western paper thus records the demise of a favorite dog, killed by a lightning stroke:
’	“ The bolt it flew and the purp he yowled,
As the lightning pierced his hide;
It sapped his vital energies,
So he flummuxed, flicked, and died.”
A Barrister Foiled.—“ Sir,” said a fierce lawyer, “ do you, on your solemn oath, declare this is not your handwriting ?” “I reckon not,” was the cool reply. “Does it resemble your handwriting?” “Yes, sir; I think it don’t” “Do you swear that ft don’t resemble your handwriting?” “Well, I do, old head.” “ You take your solemn oath that this writing does not resemble yours a single letter?” “ Y-e-a-s, sir,” “Now, how do you know?” “ 'Cause I can’t write.”
SAINT MART’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s, Jan. 24,1871.
The arrival of our beloved Mother Angela on Monday morning last, was the signal for a most enthusiastic outburst of hearty welcomings and affectionate greetings. The pupils rushed sans ceremonie to the Convent, that they might give speedy expression to their delight at having their beloved Mother among them. They received from her a most affectionate greeting, with the assurance that she was very happy to be again with her loving children at St. Mary’s. The pupils then invited the Reverend Mother to meet them, after supper, in the large study hall of the Academy. At the appointed time and place the formal reception address was read by Miss H. Niel, on behalf of the Senior Department. Miss N. Gross then read a rather comical address of welcome, so mixed up with examination exercises that it was difficult to tell which idea was uppermost in their juvenile minds—but certainly the Juniors and Minims managed to express their ardent delight at Mother’s arrival in spite of their intense application to Grammar, Geography, History, Arithmetic, and Catechism. Miss M. Quan then read a short prologue to a very dignified entertainment gotten up by the Juniors; who, being too pressed by examination duties to take part in the affair, had engaged the services of two eminent lecturers and vocalists, “Mr. and Mrs. Fuzby.” These individuals kept the youthful part of the audience in roars of laughter. Our reporter also asserts that Reverend Mother Superior and grave Sisters who were present actually smiled audibly. A lecture on the “ Republic of Letters ” was admirably given by the talented Mrs. Fuzby. Mr. Fuzby’s vocal powers were much admired by every one, except his better half. Reverend Mother expressed herself as being highly pleased with the entertainment, and much gratified by the expressions of filial affection contained in the address from the uppermost Departments.
King Frost, who, during the past week, has been exerting his artistic skill over this section of the country, did not slight St. Maiy’s, for he transformed our grounds into a scene so exquisitely beautiful, that one might imagine themselves in some enchanted garden where every tree and shrub had been encased in glass, and every spray transformed into a pendant crystal.
The landscape on the 15th and 16th ult. was lovely beyond description. On all sides were heard exclamations of delight. “ How graceful! How beautiful! Why it looks like a fairy scene.” The Drawing Class promptly set to work, sketching with a skilful pencil the crystalized trees, gracefully bending under the weight of their silvery drapery. The services of a Photographer were also engaged to take views of the Academy grounds, that all might obtain a photograph of the rare spectacle. The matter-of-fact individuals about the premises were not eery enthusiastic in their admiration of the gorgeous spectacle, for they sighed over the destruction of many beautiful trees, and the probability of the scarcity of fruit that may follow in consequence of this grand display of crystal beauty.
The examination of the music classes, instrumental and vocal, closed last evening. It was highly creditable to teachersand pupils.
The examination of the Mathematical, English, French, German, and Painting classes, will commence on the 25th and close on the 31st A full report of progress and promotion in each class will be given. The pupils' are full of hopeful energy and laudable emulation.	'
The second term will commence on the 2nd of February, with the cheering prospect of premiums and public honors as a reward for close application to study, and an amiable ladylike conformity to
rule. Success to those youthful aspirants for parental praise and scholastic laurels'.
Stylus.
arrivals.
Miss Harriet Seipp,	Chicago, Illinois.
Miss Bertha Frank, “	“
Miss Frances Kendal,	Winona, Minnesota.
TABLES OF HONOR—SR. DEP’T.
January 15.—Misses M. Cochrane, H. McMahon, H. McMahon, A. Frazer, H. Stephenson, M. Prince, A. Lloyd, M. McIntyre, D. Greene, K. Zell, C. Woods, E. Price.
January 23.—Misses R. Devoto, C. Angle, J. Langerdofer, M. Lacey, J. Tucker, M. Letourneau, R. Snood, A. Montgomery, A. Shea, M. Finley, R. Spiers, E. Shea.
honorable mention—sr. dep’t. i
Graduating Class—Misses H. Niel, A Sturgis, A. Radin, M. Kirwan, N. Moriarty, K. Young, A. Locke, B. O’Neill, C. Foote, A. Rhinehart.
First Class—Misses M. Toberty, M. Dillon, M. Shiriand, M. Kellogg, E. McFarlane, J. Hogue, J. Forbes, A Borup, G. Hurst, H. Tinsley, A. Cornish, M Shanks, K. McMahon, G. McDorgall.
Second Class—Misses M. Lange, S. O’Brien, A. Casey, K. Brown, A Reynolds, A Shea, A. Todd, A. Montgomery.
Third Class—Misses R. Fox, L. Duffield, L. Ogden, S. Hoover, E. Hendricks, R. Snood, R. Spiers, J. and R. Leoni, A. Mimick, L. Jones, N. Gross.
First Preparatory Class—Misses M. Letourneau, L Wilder, J. Falvey, M. Ford, S. Spillard, M. Wicker, K. Boyd.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses F. Murphy, E. Greenleaf, E. Boyland, L. and M. Weire, I. Bounel, F. Rush, L. Tinsley, A. Garrity, M. Cummings. M. Hoover, C. Stanfield.
Third Preparatory Class—Misses S. Klrssen, C. Creveling, M. Roberts, M. Price, Grace Darling, A Byrne, E. Horgan.
FRENCH.
First Class—Misses M. Shirland, A Locke, H. Niel, N. Moriarty, E. Marshall, J. Forbes, K. Young, M. Kirwan.
Second Class—Misses H. Tinsley, Borup, G. Hurst, N. Gross, E. Hoyt, M. Quan.
TABLE OF HONOR—JR. DEP*T.
January 11.—Misses M. Cummings, E. Horgan, F. Lloyd, F. Rush, L. Tinsley, M. and J. Kearney, M. Hoover, H. Ely, K. Lloyd.
January 13.—Misses N. Gross, M. Kreutzer, M. Quan, B. Frank, C. Stanffer, H. Seipp, G. Darling, L. Harrison, M. DeLong, G. DeHaven.
HONORABLE MENTION—JR. DEP’T.
First Class—Lizzie Wood; F. Prince, M. Reynolds, L. Harrison.
Second Class—M. Garity, M. Ely, K. Lloyd.
========^===3
(
1
II. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
"Winter Arrangement.
rpRAINS dow leave South Bend as follows: •	GOING EAST.
"Levte South Bend 9.35 a. m.
M	“	1217 p. m.
M	••	9.15	p.m.
“	“	1237	a.m.
Way Freight, 3.40 p. m.
Arrive at Buffalo 4.10 a. m **	“	4.10 a m
M	w	2 00 p. m
u	“	5.50	p.m
u	“	6.50	p.m
ft O ING
Leave South Bend 5.10 p.m. “	“	3 08 a. m.
M	“	5.07	a.m.
“	“	6 30 p. m.
Way Freight, 9 35 a m.
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. m “	“	6 50 a. m
“	“	850 a. m
**	‘	1010 p.m
“	“	940	p.m
Making connection with all trains TVcst and North.
Ac* For full details, see tbo Company's posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
CHARLES F. HATCH. General Superintendent, Toledo.
C. P. Lxland, General Passenger Agent, Toledo.	'
Hibam Brown, Agent, South Bend.	'