Notre Dame Scholastic.
T>isce giias! semper victurxis; vive griasl eras xaoritiTrns.
Volume XIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 25, 1880. Number 15.
Our Staff.
G. E. Clarke, ’81.
G. F. Sugg, ’81.
T. F. Clarke, ’83.
W. B. McGorrisk, '82
F. W. Bloom, ’81.
H. 0. Simms, ’83.
J. P. Hagan, ’81.
R. E. Fleming, ’S3.
F. H. Greyer, ’S3.
Ode on The Morning of Christ’s Nativity.
i.
This is the month, and this the happy morn, Wherein the Son of Heaven’s eternal King, Of wedded Maid and Virgin-Mother born, Our great redemption from above did bring;
For so the holy sages once did sing, That He our deadly forfeit should release, And with His Father work us a perpetual peace.
n.
That glorious form, that light unsuiferable, And that far-beaming blaze of majesty, ’ Wherewith He wont at Heaven’s high council-table
To sit the midst of Trinal-Unity,
He laid aside; and, here with us to be, Forsook the courts of everlasting day, And chose with us a darksome house of mortal clay.
nr.
Say, heavenly Muse, shall not thy sacred vein Afford a present to the Infant God?
Hast thou no verse, no hymn, or solemn strain,
To welcome Him to this His new abode, Now while the Heaven, by the sun’s team untrod, Had took no print of the approaching light, And all the spangled host keep watch in squadrons bright!
'	rv.
See how from far upon the eastern road
The star-led wizards haste with odors sweet; 0 run, prevent them with thy humble ode, And lay it lowly at His blessed feet;
Have thou the honor first thy Lord to greet, And join thy voice unto the angel quire, From out his secret altar touch’d with hallow’d fire. -	’ —Hfilton.
—“ Judge, why is it that Colonel W------, who seems to have so much good in him, has'such execrable ways?” “ Why, you see, the poor fellow used to practice bad manners on purpose, thinking it showed an independant spirit, and kept it up till, like a badly-modelled clay figure, he got set in the wrong mould.”
•John Milton.
BY GEO. F. SUGG. .	.
Scarcely had the impassionate Shakspeare given to the world the mighty efforts of his genius when there appeared a great and superb mind, prepared by logic and enthusiasm, for the epic style. A solemn and almost austere demeanor, a conviction of superior powers, a conscious devotion to great and noble things, and a singular moral fastidiousness marked his character. “ He was not one of hose fevered souls, void of self-command, whose rapture takes them by fits, whom a sickly sensibility drives forever to the extreme of sorrow or of joy, whose pliability prepares them to produce a variety of characters, whose inquietude condemns them to paint the insanity and contra-dictions’of passion. Vast knowledge, close logic and grand passion; these were his characteristics. ’	*
John Milton, upon whom it was incumbent to inaugurate a new era in the history of literature, was descended from a highly respectable family, whose pecuniary circumstances, as well as their natural appreciation of literature and art, enabled them to gratify the ardent desire and craving after knowledge of their child, and to qualify him for the arduous task which he afterwards accomplished. His first preceptor was a Puritan minister, named Young, who at once recognized the precocious genius of the boy; for we are informed that Milton was but ten years of age when he composed poems which would justify the. application of those lines to him which Pope so beautifully applied to himself
“As yet a child, and all unknown to fame, 1 lisped in numbers, and the numbers came.”
In the year 1624, he was admitted a pensioner of Christ’s College, Cambridge. During his residence, he not only composed the greater portion of his Latin poems, the classical elegance of which elicited so much admiration from learned commentators, but also his “Ode on the Nativity,” almost any verse of which is sufficient to indicate a new era in poetry. Having received his degree of M. A. in 1632 he spent the five years immediately succeeding in the beautiful seclusion of his country home, perusing classical works and composing some of his most charming poems. Whilst thus retired from the busy scenes of life, he composed his “ Lycidas,” a monody on the death of his friend Edward King. Johnson treats this poem with contemptuous depreciation, whilst it is held by Hallam to be a good test of poetic feeling; His next, and most successful of his youthful efforts, was “ Comus, a Masque.” Sir Henry Wotton, whose heart had been won by the “ Comus,” said: “ In melody of versification, sweetness of imagery, and the doric delicacy of its songs and odes, it has neverbeen sur
226	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
passed.” The “ Comus,” which is considered by many as Milton’s masterpiece, commences with a beautiful ode which is in keeping with the dignified and lofty style displayed in his later productions.
“Before the starry threshhold of Jove’s court My mansion is, where those immortal shapes Of bright aerial spirits live insphered, In regions mild, of calm and serene air, Above the smoke and stir of this dim spot, Which men call earth, and, with low-thoughtcd care, Confined and pester’d in this pinfold here, Strive to keep up a frail and feverish being, Unmindful of the crown that virtue gives, After this mortal change, to her true servants Amongst the enthroned gods on sainted seats.”
It is impossible to fix the date of composition of the “L’Allegro,” or the “ U’Penseroso,” but we are led to believe that those enchanting pictures of rural life, of mirth and melancholy, were written at some time subsequent to his departure from England. These, and other poems of his youth, appear to have given him greater pleasure than even his “ Paradise Lost.” This non-appreciation of his own great effort may be assigned to Ihe fact that he bestowed greater care and more intent study upon the productions of his youth than upon his later pcems; for it is but natural for one who is,, ever conscious of his own talent to suppose that his masterpiece which received his greatest attention. Having by the composition of these pcems won the appreciation of England’s best literary talent, he became dissatisfied with the quiet seclusion of the country and resolved to travel on the continent. He first visited sunny France, where he became familiar with the talent and nobility of that country through the instrumentality of Lord Scudamore, the English Ambassador. After a limited stay, he visited the classic shores of Italy, towards which his thoughts and affections had continually wandered. His visit to Italy must have been like a happy dream; for it was here that his wondrous talent first encountered that appreciation which it so eminently deserved, since he was not comprehended ^by his own generation in the grovelling, sensual court of Charles H; those dull eyes, so long fastened to the earth, could not endure the blaze of his genius; it was not till time had removed him to a distance that he could be calmly gazed on, and his merits fairly contemplated. Having become familiar with the Italian language he satiated his desire for the reading of classical literature, by a thorough perusal of Tasso’s “ Gerusalemma Liberata” and the best literary efforts of Dante and Petrarch. After a prolonged stay at Rome and Naples, he purposed visiting Sicily and Greece when letters from home informed him how England was agitated by the difference between Charles the First and his Parliament: and feeling that duty and patriotism alike forbade his absence in his country’s trial, he returned home to labor for the cause of liberty. His intercourse, however, with eminent continental scholars and authors had a salutary effect upon him, inasmuch as it enlivened his literary ambition, and strengthened his inward prompting that by labor and intent study he might accomplish that which mankind would not willingly let perish.
Milton was now a man of thirty, and it behooved him to take up the work of life in earnest His youth was full of joy and happy anticipations fpr the future; but when he had arrived at that period of his existence when he was about to make the world fesound with his praises he found that he had -drawn
largely upon the means of his too indulgent father. Thus on his return to England, he found it necessary to receive pupils, from whom he exacted, as from himself, continuous toil and serious reading. However, all his time was not occupied in the instruction of youth: he took advantage of those leisure hours to complete his study of polite literature, which he embraced with such avidity that he seldom retired from his books before midnight; this proved a great source of injury to his eyes, which were naturally weak from childhood. He also found in these spare moments opportunities to pen the most eloquent of his prose compositions, the most remarkable among which was his “Areopagitica; or, Speech for the Liberty of Unlicensed Printing.” In 1638, he also wrote a “ Tractate on Education, ”in which he denounced the modern method of school university and upheld a method somewhat similar to that of Sparta and Athens, but altogether impracticable and Utcpian. Blit whilst he was thus occupied in working to ameliorate his own condition he did not forget the necessities of his fellow-citizens, but labored arduously for liberty and right; for when the Parliament and king were at variance with each other he thought it incumbent upon himself to advocate the cause of Parliament. Thus was he a long time diverted from the “Laureate Fraternity” of poets and from the shady places of philosophy, whilst he was recognized as the foremost literary champion of the principles of English liberty, then struggling for existence. His polemical writings abound in passages of the finest declamation, marked by a peculiar majesty of diction and by a sustained and passionate magniloquence. The political theory which he advanced was, in some respects, peculiar to himself. He advocated a free commonwealth, with a sovereign or a house of lords; the Government, he said,’should be intrusted to a general council of ablest men chosen by the nation. The republicans, triumphing at last, he was appointed Latin Secretary to Cromwell. Whilst thus engaged he published his “ Defensio pro Populo Angli cano,” in which he justifies the execution of King Charles the First.
At this time Milton worked so arduously for the advancement of his party that his close application to controversial reading and writing was at last the cause of his blindness in 1652. He was now obliged to retire from public life, and to depend almost entirely upon his pen for support. It was at this .time, when surrounded by trials and misfortunes which would seem to unnerve the strongest, that he composed his“ Paradise Lost," whichhas never been surpassed either in the grandeur of its subject or the power of its style. The story of the fall of man, with its scenery of hell, chaos, and the new earth, exhibiting the daring, suffering and ruined splendor of a rebellious archangel of/ surpassing energy and intellect, thwarted in heaven, condemned to eternal punishment, triumphing over Adam and' Eve, and finally waging war against the Deity, presents unbounded resources of sublimity and admiration. His two greatest creations, the characters of Satan and Eve, the former the embodiment of intellectual audacity and unprincipled ambition; the latter, the personification of all sweetness and fascination, illustrate at once the compass and delicacy of the poet’s power. It is evident, from the following lines, that he appreciated the grandeur of his subject, and that he intended the nobleness of diction to correspond with it: .	.
.	. “I thence.
Invoke thy aid to my advent’rous song, . ,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	227
That with no middle flight intends to soar . Above th’ Aonian mount, while it pursues Things unattempted yet in prose or rhyme.” Paradise Lost.
Schlegel, in commenting on the defects of “Paradise - Lost," said: “It is strange that Milton failed to discover its incompleteness as a unique whole, of which the Creation, । the Fall and the Redemption, are so many successive parts closely linked together. He eventually perceived the de* feet, it is true, and appended ‘Paradise Regained’; but the proportions of this latter, to the first performance, were not in keeping, and much too slight to admit of its constituting an efficient keystone.” “Paradise Regained,’’ . • which is considered by all commentators as much inferior to “ Paradise Lost,” was by Milton judged to be vastly sui	perior to it.
’	Milton shortly before his death published his tragedy of
*	“ Samson Agonistes.” It abounds in many beautiful pas-
sages, but exhibits little dramatic talent. “ As ‘ Comus ’ is a
> ’ beautiful reflection of happy youth, the ‘ Samson Agonistes ’ ’	shadows forth the gloomy grandeur of the poet’s old age.”
Milton now began to feel the weight of years; and that poor, shattered frame was no longer compatible with the strong spirit which it contained—a spirit which enabled him to endure the afflictions of blindness and domestic in-
4	felicity so heroically. But Divine Providence, in His
,	mercy, did not suffer this shattered frame to remain long
K	the receptacle of so glorious a spirit. He expired calmly
? and quietly on the 15th of November, 1674. His remains were interred in the Church of St. Giles, where the pilgrim from many a distant clime shall repair to the consecrated spot so long as the reverence for exalted genius and worth shall survive in the human heart.
Milton, after adding so materially to the literary glory of England, was not destined to receive, during his career (upon earth, that recompense which he so eminently deserved. It was not till half a century later, however, that ।	his countrymen, profiting by the rich legacy of his genius,
discharged the debt of gratitude which was due to England’s illustrious subject.
Chinese Immigration.
BY IIABRY C. SIMMS, ’83.
During the pastfour years our country has been disturbed by clamorous dissentions raised against the Chinese. Beginning in California, this cry has been echoed all along the line from San Francisco to Boston—“ Down with the heathen Chinese! We are ruined by Chinese cheap labor; send them back to the celestial Empire, for'Americans can never hope to compete with them in the price of labor.” In the face of our treaty with China and Japan; which stipulates that there shall be free intercourse, could anything be more unjust than to say that the Chinese must go, or shall not come? We invited immigration thence. They did not ask for an American ambassador, or for our commerce. China has for ‘5,000 years been Tocked up in almost complete isolation, and America was the key that unlocked her gates to the world. Shall Americans, then, say: “Close your gates, your trade is an injury to us, and your exploits not wanted; we will not be heathenized by your rice and chopsticks.” Where is the justice in the complaint of our friends on the Pacific slope? In a
State three times as large as Illinois, with, a population of only one million souls, is there not enough, for fifty thousand Chinese ? The opposite idea would be preposterous—ridiculously absurd. Kansas might, with far more justice, complain of the negro exodus. Is there, then, no other State or territory besides California that awaits immigration ? What are we to say of Arizona, New Mexico. Oregon and Washington, with their unoccupied land abounding in mineral wealth, with illimitable forests, and millions of acres of soil yet unturned by the plow? They await immigration, and offer rich rewards to settlers from any and every quarter of the globe. How long will it take to people these States and territories by permitting them to come in colonies of fifteen? How much will we lose by restriction? Can you compute it ? We have received from Europe vast numbers of immigrants during the past thirty years, and yet we see them occupying but a comparatively small proportion of the soil. It is true the Chinaman has his opium dens, his joss-house, and his unwavering belief in Confucius; but are these worse than Utah haremsand Oneida communities? I answer that question by saying no! It is, then, because he has been guilty of underbidding Americans in the price of labor; but is not labor subject to the universal law of “.supply and demand”? Surely anyone in this great Republic may work for as much as he can get, or as little as he chooses, and it is no one’s business but his own—for there is hardly such tyranny in the world as that of trades and unions led by demagogues like Dennis Kearney. Is the mere fact that “ John ’’ has been guilty of underbidding in the price of labor enough to banish him ? No: we have been proud to call our country an asylum for the downtrodden of every nation; and let us not begin our second century by saying to our celestial citizens: “Goback! we welcome all but you." I say that such an act would be despotic, and not in accordance with American ideas of liberty. I think our people are beginning to see that if we violate our treaty with China and Japan, we do it at our peril; for we cannot ride over international rights and precedents with impunity.
Place the question in another light. We have Americans engaged in commercial pursuits in China, and do they at once adopt the customs-of the Empire? do they invest their money in Chinese 4 per cent., Government bonds, or R. R. stocks? do they wear their hair in a queue, eat the rice with chopsticks, and smoke the opium? Do they become disciples of Confucius ? have the majority their wives and children among them, intending to make China a permanent home ? By no means. Well, then, China, too, must have some grievances. As a nation, we do not know what economy is. They have given us excellent lessons by turning our waste lands and abandoned mines to good account. Besides all this, we cannot part with China’s trade, if we can with her people. Our exports to. that. country amount fifty millions annually, and in these hard times we ought to increase rather than diminish the sum.
If California wishes to succeed, let her quit mining and engage in agriculture. Her mines by degrees are becoming exhausted; her flush days of 49 and ’50 will never return. New El Doradoes have been discovered in the Black Hills, in Southern Colorado and in Arizona, and these powerful combinations will ultimately crush her; for even now she feels the effects of financial hard times and a scarcity of labor. After all, it is not the better part of California’s people that cry out against thia supposed
228
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC..
outrage. It is only that spirit of Kearney’s Communism, that so lately filled the land with startling reports of riot and havoc, and even now festers in our large cities as a gangrene, full of danger to the rights of property as well as labor; it is that spirit that sees in a fellow-creature superiority and in himself inferiority, and hates the one who is more successful than he.
If Americans in general would succeed, let them not forget that employer and employee have mutual rights and mutual obligations. All our people ought to feel that the true dignity of labor is too great for it ever to become a beggar, and its mission too good and too pure for it ever to become a robber. Then let us not be afraid to extend our right hand in fellowship to the Chinaman; let us even be ready to learn something from his strict economy, his industrious and peaceful habits, and his veneration for the aged. The day may yet come when our ladies will wear Chinese silks, spun and woven in our own land, and drink their tea made from plants cultivated in our own Southern States.
Presentation of St. Edward’s Statue.
The grand statue of St. Edward, a description of which appeared in our last, was formally presented to Very Rev. Father General last Monday by the members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association. Several of the Fathers were present on the occasion, among whom we noticed Very Rev. Father Granger, C. S. C., Rev. Father Kittel, D. D., Rev. Fathers Walsh and O’Keeffe, C. S. C.; Very Rev. Father Corby arrived at the conclusion, regretting that the pressure of business these days had made him forget his appointment. Rev. Father Maher and other members of the Faculty were unable to attend from the same cause. The presentation was made in the Sorins’ Hall, which was tastefully decorated for the occasion. The statue was placed on a platform, on which was also a chair for the Very Rev. Father General. At 2 o’clock a committee waited on him at his house and accompanied him to the hall. His arrival was the signal for an outburst of applause, on the subsidence of which Master C. C. Echlin, Oakland, California, assisted by Masters J. H. D wenger, Fort Wayne, Ind., and J. C. Chaves, Belen, New Mexico, delivered in a distinct and pleasing voice the following address:
Very Bev. Father General.
Our Venerated and Dear Father:—As several of our members are preparing to start for home and will not be here at Christmas, we decided at our last meeting to invite you to our Hall to-day, to make you a formal presentation of the statue of your Patron Saint. We hope, Very Rev. Father, that you will accept it with the same affection with which it is presented, and that when it is placed Christmas Eve in the sanctuary, near your chair, it will ever serve as a loving souvenir of your youngest children.
We will indeed feel very happy when we see St. Edward placed near the altar, for we are the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, and our greatest pleasure is to decorate that holy place. While we are serving at Mass and Vespers, the statue of our blessed Patron will be constantly before our eyes; and in our absence it will adore the Blessed Sacrament for us. St. Edward, we know, feels quite at home at Notre Dame, which ■ he regards as his kingdom in America; and the hearty welcome which he received at his arrival last month, not alone from the Sorin Association, but from every one at Notre Dame, should convince him of the delight all feel at seeing him here. They have affectionately welcomed him as the family Saint of the
Congregation. We are glad that our act has given such pleasure to all, but we are especially pleased to be able to give our venerated Patron this-proof of the esteem and love which we entertain for him.
We have been told, Very Rev. Father, that the St. Cecilians are doing all they can to attract you. They gave an Exhibition in your honor last week. They say that “ they are the apple of your eye ” ; they told you in their address that they knew you esteemed them—the oldest Society in the University. But if they had consulted us, we would have advised them to leave	i
out the last remark; for we know that it is not the oldest but the youngest that you esteem and love most. And this is why we feel in perfect peace, no matter how much they may endeavor to gain your affection, for we know that they can never take our place in your heart. We feel, indeed, highly honored and very happy, Very Rev. Father, to be the first to present you the statue of your glorious Patron, which is so surpassingly beautiful and therefore so worthy to be offered to you. Some persons have remarked that, though it looks grand at a distance, still to see how exquisitely perfect every feature is, one must come near it. How appropriately the remark seemed to apply to the character of our venerated Father. At a distance, through the length and breadth of the land he stands a magnificent figure; but to know him thoroughly, one must come near him —near enough to discover the noble qualities of his great and good heart. •
Again presenting you, Very Rev. Father, your royal Patron, whose beautiful figure so well represents the majesty of the king, as well as the modesty and piety of the saint, and praying St. Edward to take you and your kingdom, more than ever under his special protection	J
We are, Very Rev. and dear Father General, your affectionate children,
The Sorin Association.
At the end of the address, Very Rev. Father General thanked the donors in a , most kind and affectionate manner and then called on Rev. Father Walsh to reply to the presentation address; but he courteously declined saying that on such an occasion the Sorins would only be satisfied with a speech from their Patron. Several of the other Fathers were called upon, but with the same result. Father General then arose and the pleasure with which his address was received could best be seen from the breathless attention with which he was listened to. In the course of his speech he said that while he could not acquiesce in the compliment paid him in the address he fully did in the praise given the statue. He concluded by saying that the Sorins deserved great credit for being the first to bring St. Edward to America, and that he hoped he would now more than ever obtain new blessings for Notre Dame.
Art, Music and Literature.	’a
—New York is to have a new opera house, to cost I §450,000.	i
—There are three hundred pupils at the Musical Ly- *| ceum, in Rome.	3
—It is reported that the	celebrated German singer, Ma-	;•
terna, will visit America in 1881.	~	> ]
—	Wagner's “ Nibelungen-Tetralogie ” will be performed	j;
next May at the Victoria-Theatre, Berlin.	’
—	The Emperor Wilhelm has conferred the Order of the Crown on Pohl, musical critic and editor of the Bade-Blalt, Baden.	J
—	The Municipality of Rome have.paid the enterprising ; proprietor a premium of 50,000 francs on the completion of the Teatro Costanzi.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	229
—Gerster comes back more mature, and with a greater seriousness, than when she left; formerly there was a certain girlish artlessness, but this is now replaced by a graver dignity and more womanly earnestness.
—A greater flight of imagination than La Bernhardt’s cablegram that she was serenaded by 20,000 people after her first night in New York, and that not a single libretto was to be seen in the house, is impossible.
—Sime. Maretzek has been added to the Ions list of teachers at the College of Music at Cincinnati. She will fill the important part of instruction in stage deportment in opera classes, and will also give lessons on the harp.
—When Frederick Clay, the composer, was asked why Arthur Sullivan had made such unattractive settings for Tennyson’s “ Songs of the Wrens,” he replied: “ Because the laureate has no ear for melody,” while Longfellow’s verse inspires music.
—Mme. Etelka Gerster presided at the Floral-temple of a Catholic Church fair held in New York last month; she proved, of course, the attraction of the occasion, and sold more flowers than all the other ladies combined. She was kept busy for a couple of hours.
—Johann Strauss has composed a new opera entitled “The Lace Handkerchief of the Queen.” It was brought out in Vienna about a month ago, and achieved a great success. It was very favorably spoken of by the critics, and is said to be amusing and brilliant.
—Emile Seifert, a well-known musician and violinist, and at one time companion of Rubinstein in his tours through Russia and Germany, was killed in Buffalo, November 9th, by a pistol-shot fired by Russel Dart, a promi-inent citizen: Seifert had been making love to Dart’s daughter, who was a pupil, against her father’s wishes ; hence the tragedy.
—A famous Greek novel called “Louki Laras” will soon be an open book to English readers. M. Gennadius, late Greek Charge d'Affairs in London, is making the transla-tion, and it has already been published in the principal Continental languages.' The time of the story is placed in the Greek War of Independence, and it takes the form of reminiscences of a Sciote merchant.
* —This good story of Mr. Maretzek is told by Jerome Hopkins—therefore must be true: Some years ago, when Max Maretzek was surrounded by creditors, a poor young man paid him forty dollars for singing lessons; but after half a quarter was up, Maretzek frankly assured his pupil that he would never make a singer; and, said he, “ here are your forty dollars back again.” Such instances are altogether too rare among our best music teachers.
—The London Observer says: “ Mr. Edwin Booth’s Ram-let was not a fair sample of his capabilities: he would have done wisely to have chosen Richelieu for his debut. In this part he must take high rank among those who have essayed the role on the English stage. The play was received throughout with enthusiasm, and Mr. Booth was called out at the end of every act. In the fourth act the audience was carried away with sympathy and enthusiasm, and the applause was loud and long. Mr. Booth was twice summoned before the curtain at the close. We have to lament, however, the very indifferent support Mr. Booth received.”
Scientific Notes.
—Prof. Forbes, of Illinois, has been employing figures to tell him what the birds do, and the result is an astonishing footing up. He says at least two-thirds of the food of all the insectivorous birds consists of insects, averaging at the lowest reasonable estimate twenty insects per. day for. each individual of these two-thirds, giving a total for the year (which is surprisingly low) of 7,200 per acre, or 250,-000,000,000 for the State. This number, placed one,to each square inch of surface, would cover an area of 40,000 acres. In connection with these figures the following estimates by Mr. H. D. Minot, one of the Boston naturalists, are interesting. He states that in Massachusetts alone there are annually destroyed not less than 50,000 partridges, 30,000
woodcock, 15,000 quail and 5,000 snipe, or 100,000 of other game birds, while in the same State 250,000 wild birds (counting their eggs) are placed hors du combat. Mr. Minot places the number of birds annually destroyed in the United States at 1,000,000,000, roughly estimated. According to the American naturalist, a young mocking-bird raised from the nest has been known to eat 240 red-legged grasshoppers in a day, equivalent to at least 480 average insects. Shootists, spare the birds.
—Ammonia is a great stimulant to plants. Five or six drops of it to every pint of water, and applied about once a week, will cause house plants to flourish, andgive'them a vigor not to be obtained in any other way. A few drops in the water in which cut flowers are to be placed, will restore them, if beginning to wilt. Ammonia has also excellent medicinal qualities, and has the advantage of being familiar to most persons, cheap, and easy to obtain. Headaches sometimes may be relieved by its use. Care must be taken if it is applied to the face, for if the ammonia is very strong it will blister and burn the skin. For the sling or bite of insects, apply it, and it will be found to neutralize the poison. It is said that instantaneous relief from toothache may be obtained by saturating a bit of cotton with ammonia and applying it to the affected tooth. For toilet purposes ammonia is equally useful, and no lady who has once recognized its merits will want to be without it. A person who has an oily, shiny complexion owes it to an unusual secretion of fatty matter by the skin; soap fails to remove it, and it is altogether better to use a little ammonia in the water when washing. The.philosophy of this is, that ammonia being an alkali, unites with the minute globules of fat to form soap, and thus the face is cleansed and freed from its greasy appearance. If used in the-bath it will remove all disagreeable odors. Nothing is better for cleansing the hair and removing dandruff. It is equally good for cleaning brushes. It should have a glass or rubber stopper, as it will eat away cork and allow much of its strength to escape.
—A.practical experiment was lately tried with the air-engine at Woolwich, designed by Col. Beaumont, Royal Engineers, and which has been for some time running on the short lines of the Royal Arsenal. Although weighing but ten tons, it has proved capable of hauling a burden of sixteen tons up a fair incline, and arrangements were made to try its powers in a more extended run, such as engines of the kind would have to encounter on the London railways and tramways. The air-reservoir, which contains only 100 cubic feet of air, was changed at the torpedo pumping-house up to a pressure of 1,000 pounds to the square inch, and with this store of energy it was proposed to run to and from Hartford, about sixteen miles. The chief feature of Col. Beaumont’s method is the introduction of an almost imperceptible supply of steam, by which the air, as it is admitted to the cylinder from the reservoir, is largely heated, and thereby largely increased in force. The engine is driven by six cylinders and a double set of machi-nary at one end, and, having no smokestack, resembles in appearance a locomotive tender rather than a locomotive. It runs on four wheels, and in size is less than that of an ordinary omnibus. It left the Royal Arsenal at Plumstead Station at 12:22 p. m., with a full charge of 1,000 pounds to the inch, passed Abbey Wood Station at 12:27, with 940 pounds on the gauge; Belvidere at 12:33, with 860 pounds; and Erith at 12:36 with 760 pounds, arriving at Dartford at 12:50, with a remaining energy of 540 pounds -on the square inch. Shuffling about at the station reduced this pressure somewhat, and at 1:35 the return journey commenced with a store of 510 feet. Although the minimum for effective working is considered to be a pressure of 200 feet, Plumstead station was reached again at 2:10, but the engine was nearly pumped out, having a pressure of barely eighty pounds remaining. It was stated that another engine is constructing, much more powerful, capable, in fact, of travelling double the distance with a single charge. The operation of pumping in the compressed air occupies about fifteen minutes, and it is calculated that an air-engine on this principle as large as the usual steam-locomotive of fifty tons weight would.be considerably more powerful than any locomotive, yet made. The objection to steam, that it frightens horses, cannot apply to this system, as there is no escape of steam visible
230
THE NOTES DAME SCHOLASTIC.
or audible, and the only noise to be distinguished is a rumbling sound like the rattle of the street-traffic.
Exchanges.
—And now come The Beacon, from Boston University, and The Kenyon Advance, from Gambier, Ohio,—the contents of the former, as usual, set off with a goodly share of poetry. The theological department is more vivacious and interesting than formerly. “ The Influence of Climate on the Character of a People ” receives considerable attention from a writer in the Advance; the subject is well handled.
—The Queen’s College Journal, Kingston, Canada, has been tardy in visiting us this year, but we are in a measure repaid by a double number and a single one. The Journal is now printed on super-sized and calendered paper, and makes a very fine appearance typographically. We are not at all jealous, and congratulate our esteemed Canadian contemporary on her nobby suit. The first (double) number of the Journal is taken up with an excellently arranged account of the formal opening and dedication of the new college buildings, the addresses, sports, etc. The newly-elected Chancellor, Sandford Fleming, C. E., C. M. G., is one of nature’s noblemen, a man of eminent scientific attainments and piety, “ who,” as the Vice-Chancellor remarked, “could listen to every one, no matter what his opinions might be ”; and who “ believed that a man might differ from him and yet be a thoroughly honest and able man.” His inaugural address is just what might be expected from such a man—practical, scholarly, and based on broad Christian principles; and while we cannot, of course, have the least sympathy with the sectarian form of belief of the Church of Scotland, or Presbyterian Church, held by Mr. Fleming, we can but honor the gentlemanly and Christian spirit of tolerance which characterizes the man and the scholar. His address contains none of that narrow-minded bigotry that we often see, and hear of, and he even pays a meed of .tribute to that Church which seldom receives a word of praise, even if censure be be not withheld, from those outside her pale. Referring to the humble origin of some of the afterwards eminent seats of learning in Europe, that of Edinburgh, beginning with one professor, he mentioned the fact that Cambridge, which now has a cluster of eighteen or twenty colleges and halls—was established in the twelfth century in the shelter of a farm outbuilding, under the auspices of an abbot and three monks; that Oxford and Cambridge, as we now see them, with their forty-two colleges and halls, are the growth of some eight centuries, having existed long anterior to the Reformation; and that the old Scottish universities of St Andrews, Aberdeen, Edinburgh, and Glasgow, are all institutions which, with but one exception, were established by Papal authority. We would like to quote entire that portion of the address which reviews the condition of language and literature from the advent of Christianity down to the present time; but as our limited space forbids, we will take only the following passage, as it will prove interesting to the great majority of our readers.
“The advent of Christianity was an important turning point in the history of the human race, hut it was long before the educated and refined Romans recognized the humble and despised Christians. The latter had no literary institutions and no literature. The former were wealthy and powerful, and held high rank in scholarship. The sway of Rome extended from Persia to the British Islands, and her people remained essentially pagan for centuries after the advent of Christianity. Paganism at length collapsed, and, three hundred years after its rise, Christianity became the official religion of the Empire.
“Some centuries later Western Europe was overrun and overpowered by barbaric tribes. The Empire was overthrown, and the lost remnants of Roman civilization were rudely destroyed. The Church of Rome, however, remained, and the schools which her Christian teachers had established became of vast importance, as they formed almost the only refuge of learning. For a thousand years after the downfall of the Roman Empire, in Western Europe, education was chiefly controlled by the priests and monks. The schools of the convents, the cathedral schools and universities established before the sixteenth century were all founded by Papal authority, and
conducted under the almost exclusive management of the holy fathers.	‘
“The use of the Latin tongue prevailed in pagan Rome in all public proceedings throughout the vast empire. Latin became the liturgical and official language of the Church of Rome. After the decline of the Empire, the mingling of barbarous tribes changed the spoken dialects and, produced in course of time, some of the modern languages; but Latin, for a long period, formed the only language used for the purpose of instruction in all schools and colleges. All laws, charters and treaties were written in it, and all priests, lawyers and scholars read, wrote and spoke in Latin. Before the invention of printing, a copy of a book could only be made by laborious processes, requiring infinite pains and a minute acquaintance with the language in	4
which it was written. As a consequence, a perfect acquaintance	’
with the Latin tongue became a prime necessity. It is not surprising, therefore, that Latin should be considered of essential importance, or that it should be viewed with traditionary veneration in all seminaries of learning which were founded prior to the Reformation, or were in existence more than a century
ago-	’
“The study of the literature of Greece was generally abandoned by the beginning of the sixth century, and the treasures contained in the works of the Greek philosophers were . hidden through the greater part of the Middle Ages. With the revival of classical literature in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries and with the interest in the Greek language that was awakened by the appeals made during the Reformation to the Greek originals of the New Testament, the study of Greek was	’
introduced to the institutions of learning. Thus has it come	•
about that Greek and Latin classics have been regarded as the most important branches of education. Now we are approaching the dawn of the twentieth century, and we are presented with the remarkable fact that the study of the languages and literature of two Pagan nations retains precedence over all other studies at some of the most famous Universities in the countries which claim the front rank in modern Christian civilization.
“During the long period when Europe was sunk in the grossest barbarism, and brute force reigned supreme, the colleges • and convent schools were the great repositories of learning;	*
and to them and to the ecclesiastical teachers who conducted them, we are mainly, if not wholly, indebted for the treasures of classical literature which have been preserved to us. There cannot be a doubt that from the fifth to the fiteenth century literature owes all to the shelter of the Christian Church, that the Church has been the sanctuary of the culture, the philosophy, and even the traditions of literary antiquity.
“ The establishment of universities during the Middle Ages was among the greatest educational achievements of that period, and when a desire for knowledge sprung up in men’s minds, they found in classical literature a rich inheritance from two cultured races; but the noble thoughts of the enlightened Greeks and Romans could only be conveyed to the student in the languages in which they were recorded. Libraries were few, and before the invention of printing, books could not easily be multiplied.' Consequently, oral instruction was to a large extent a necessity. In those days the only course for the instructors was first to teach the language of the classic writings, then to unroll the manuscripts, and to unfold the treasures they contained.”
—The current number of The Virginia University Magazine opens with a brief sketch of Charles Lamb—readable as far as it goes, but too meagre in detail to give one a fair idea of the “ inimitable ” Charles Lamb, as De Quincey styles him. The writer in the University Magazine would lain make us believe in general terms, at the outset, that the works of Lamb possess but few attractions for the ordinary student of literature, and cannot be read with any satisfaction without knowing the history of.the author; but no one who is a lover of subtle humor and genuine open-hearted- . ness can quit the works of “Elia” without loving the works and without loving the author. His sister Mary,	i
so closely connected with the author of “The Essays of Elia,” has but a scant mention made of her in the essay.
The following extract from an article in the Scholastic will give some idea of Lamb’s personality and works: Charles Lamb numbered among his intimate personal friends and admirers many of the most celebrated of the men of letters of his day. Wordsworth, Coleridge,	<
Southey, Hazlitt, Carey (the translator of Dante), De Quincey, Procter, better known as “ Barry Cornwall,” and others, knew him, and knew him only to admire and to	1
love. It made but little difference to Lamb what were the political whims of the men who came to drink a cup of tea with him. He judged them according to their merits; if he found in them anything of praise, they were his friends. And he loved them all, and all their contradictory opinions. Says Talfourd, his biographer: “ In the high and
THE KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
231
calm, but devious speculations of Godwin; in the fierce hatreds of Hazlitt; in the gentle and glorious mysticism of Coleridge; in the sturdy opposition of Thelwell to the Government; in Leigh Hunt’s softened and fancy-streaked patriotism; in the gallant toryism of Stoddard, he found traits which made the individuals more dear to him. When Leigh Hunt was imprisoned in Cold Bath Fields for libel, Lamb was one of his most constant visitors; and when Thelwell was striving to bring the 1 Champion ’ into notice, Lamb was ready to assist him with his pen, and to fancy himself, for the time, a Jacobin.” When any one had once secured his friendship he was never to lose it. The only exception to this was in his famous quarrel with Southey. This was only for a short while. Besides, Lamb had only wielded his pen principally in defence of other friends. Lamb’s readings were peculiar. His delight was in the old English poets; modern writers were pleasing to him only when they were his friends. He admired Wordsworth, but Dryden and Pope pleased him more. Byron was no favorite of his. His Saras and Giaours were personages with whom he could have no sympathy—they were too unreal to him—they were not of flesh and blood. Shelly was too cold for him; but his admiration of Mrs. Shelly’s ‘ Frankenstein ’ was sincere. He cared little for the Scotch novels; and yet he was proud of Sir Walter Scott, and of the honors shown him. But, as we have said, his delight was in the old English poets. His love for his sister, Mary, was the very excess of affection. She was at times subject to fits of insanity, and this very affliction only served to make his love for her the stronger. It was a most pitiful sight to see Charles, with tears in his eyes, leading his sister, as the symptoms were showing themselves, to the asylum. Of all the punsters who have ever lived, Lamb was the most inveterate. His conversation glowed with them. “A pun,” he writes to Coleridge, “is a thing of too much consequence to be thrown in as a make weight. ... A pun is a noble thing per se. Oh, never bring it in as an accessory I A pun is a soul digest of reflection; .... it is entire; it fills the mind; it is as perfect as a sonnet;' better, it limps ashamed in the train and retinue of humor. It knows it should have an establishment of its own.” “Many of Lamb’s witty and curious sayings,” says Talfourd, “ have been repeated since his death which are worthy to be held in undying remembrance; but they give no idea of the general tenor of his conversation. ... It was fretted into perpetual eddies of verbal felicity and happy thought, with little tranquil intervals reflecting images of exceeding elegance and grace. . . . Lamb’s choicest puns and humorous expressions could not be recollected. They were bom of the evanescent feeling and died with it, one moment bright, then gone forever.” Lamb’s writings consists of poems: ‘John Wood vill,’a tragedy; * The Wife’s Trial,’ a domestic poem; ‘Mr. H-------,’ a farce; ‘Rosamond Gray,’ a tale; ‘The Essays of Elia’; ‘Selections from the Old English Dramatists ’; ‘ Tales from Shakespeare,’ written by himself and his sister Mary; ‘ The Last Essays of Elia,’ etc. Of some of the characteristic traits of the second, and much the longest essay of the number, “Diogenes Teufels-drockh,” we wish to say more than space allows in this number of the Scholastic, so we reserve it for a future notice. “Ganymede” and “Metonymy” are excellent poems, and go far to raise the University Magazine to the high level of the year just passed.
CoHege Gossip.
—Christman Hall, the new college for colored youths at Atlanta, has just been opened, and is already nearly filled with pupils.
—The graduating classes in the Faculty of Law, of McGill College, held a meeting lately for the election of a valedictorian.
—Ernst, one of the pair of baseball players that Noah landed from the ark, is President of the Harvard Baseball Association.—Cornell Era. -	.
—It has been stated by one of the ^Faculty that that body would not in any case suspend the college exercises on account of measles.—Harvard Echo.
—The following appeared in our exchanges lately: “ The students who were burned out at the Adrian College fire have been provided with temporary rooms in private houses.” We believe they should be provided with rooms in private houses.	.
—The Harvard Echo states that there are over 7,000 Americans studying in the German schools and Universities. The American Consul at Wurtemburg states that §4,500,000 are thus annually expended by Americans in Germany.
—The freshmen at Wesleyan University hired a band of music for §5 to serenade President Beach. After one tune had been played the sophomores paid the musicians $10 to stop. Such a fight ensued as had never been known before in the history of the college.—Ex.
—The Ursuline College of the Sacred Heart, conducted by cloistered nuns, at Toledo, Ohio, has a larger attendance of pupils this year than at any other time since the foundation of the institution, twenty-five years ago. Mother Amedeus, a sister of Hon. E. F. Dunne, LL. D., is the superior.
—Sergeant (saluting): “ Mr. O. C., can I have permission to study with Cadet M, to-night?” O. C. (reluctantly): “ Well, no.” Sergeant: “ Will you have a cigar ? ” O. C.: “I don’t care if Ido.” Sergeant: “Did you say I could go ? ” O. C.: “ Certainly sir, stay as long as you like.”— K. M. I. Hews.
—Gen. Bancroft, Robert C. Winthrop, Charles Francis -Adams, James Russell Lowell, Benjamin R. Curtis, Oliver Wendell Holmes, and Edward Everett were members, while in college, of the Harvard Hasty Pudding Club, which was organized in 1797. The organization intends building a club-house.—Vidette.
Prof.—(insinuatingly) “Now, Mr. G., you would say that the strata of sandstone were entirely free ftom fossils, would’nt you?” Student'. “Yes, sir, certainly.” . Prof.z “Then you would make a very great mistake. Next I Mr. S., we find a large number in granite, do we not?” Student-. “Yes, sir.” Prof.: “No, sir, none at all.”
—The late Professor Watson appears to have been wedded to science. His will, just opened at Ann Arbor, provides that his property, valued at §60,000, shall be given to the National Academy of Sciences of the United States, excepting the munificent sum of §3,000, which is considerately set apart for the support of his wife.—Register.	’
—The Ann Arbor Courier says: The medical department of the university is so crowded that the lecture room will not seat them all, and some have to stand up during the lectures. The class is the largest’in the history of the university. There are to be three classes in this department hereafter—Seniors, Juniors, and Freshmen—each having appropriate studies.
—The Yale Neics, in an editorial, says: “Columbia expects to enter at Henley, but Yale proposes to row the University crews at Oxford and Cambridge an eight-oared race over a four-mile course. At Henley only “fours” participate. The Cornell Era also modestly claims that victory there will give Cornell the college championship of the world.—Harvard Echo.
—Prep., translating Ctesar: “gVaur hoc toto proclio, cum ab hora septima ad vesperum pugnatum sit, adversium hostem videre nemo potuitP Lib. i, Chap., 26. “For during the whole battle, as it was fought from the seventh hour till late at night, nobody could see the retreating enemy.” Professor: “Mr. C., why could the enemy not he seen”? Mr. C.: “ On account of the great smoke from the powder.” Answer received with acclamation.
—The Athenaeum announces that a member of the Manchester School Board, Mr. Joseph Gillow, is engaged in the production of an historical treatise on the Roman Catholic colleges and schools of England from the time of Queen Elizabeth to the restoration of the Catholic hierarchy in England in 1850. Mr. Gillow has been able to obtain for his work information from original sources at Ushaw and other well-known Catholic seminaries in England.	,
232	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Danie, December 25, XSSO.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fourteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence iu class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per -A.irn.vi.ni, Dostpaicl.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If* Bubecriber falls to receive the Scholastio regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early appUcat ion should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—Classes will be resumed promptly on the 3d. Parents should see that their children are punctual in returning at that time.
------------ ---------—----
—That long-expected, joyfully anticipated, and universally celebrated day has at last arrived. It is Christmas Day! It is a day of joy, gladness, contentment, merriment, peace; For weeks past have children talked and dreamed about the presents they would receive and the happy time they would have on this day. From every corner of the habitable globe arise the merry voices of thousands singing anthems of jey, filling the world with gladness. It is of this day that Shakespeare speaks when he says, that the very air we breathe seems holy. It’is the day which from Adam’s fall to the birth of the Messiah was eagerly awaited by generations' of patriarchs, princes and kings. This day is the anniversary of the birth of Him at whose entrance into the world the midnight sky of a bitter cold night was made as brilliant as the light of a hundred suns by the descent of thousands of bright angels, who filled the air with Heaven’s choicest music, as they took their course to a shabby stable in Bethlehem where lay in humble majesty the Saviour of mankind. “ Glory be to God in the highest, and peace on earth to men of good will,” sang the angelic choirs on that occasion, which was destined ever after to be the most joyful day of the year. Care and sorrow are ithrown.to the winds; the old man, whose hoary locks ad-imonish him of his proximity to the grave, becomes a boy ,once more, and is seen hobbling around with a crowd of frappy little children, whose hearty, youthful, ringing daiigh and merry shouts bring, back to his memory those ^ays gone by wh^n he too was as merry, gay, light-hearted
and free as those by whom he is now surrounded; he seems to envy them in their pleasure, and would gladly become a little child once more.
To the student who has employed his time profitably since the commencement of the session, the Christmas holidays are indeed days of joy. Conscious of having done his duty, he hastens with a light heart to his home, where none but good reports from the Faculty have been received, and where, consequently, fond parents, proud of their sod, await his arrival. The first greetings over, they congratulate him upon his good deportment at College and the progress he has made in his studies. His parents feel that they have good reason to be proud of their boy, and urgent and potent motives to make his stay at home a-most pleasant and agreeable one.
We are sure that to this class of young gentlemen belong the majority of Notre Dame’s students, and therefore it is, and not from mere custom, that we wish one and all a most merry time during the Christmas holidays; for we know they are entitled to it. We wish all, then, a most happy and pleasant vacation, and hope to see every student back promptly to resume his studies on the 3d inst. Having spent this short vacation in a manner the most conducive to real and true enjoyment, all will return mentally and physically refreshed, and with a determination to employ their time to the best advantage until the close of the scholastic year. While away do not forget to make an endeavor to increase the circulation of your college paper. You will undoubtedly meet with many friends and acquaintances who are interested in your welfare and in the prosperity of the University of Notre Dame, your Alma Mater. If they are not already aware of the fact, let them know that you publish a paper called The Notre Dame Scholastic, n which every item of interest in connection with university affairs is given. Ask them to increase its circulation by subscribing for it and getting their friends to do the same.
That all may experience naught but pleasure on the an-niversary of that day, when, in the words of Milton,
. “No war or hattie’s sound
Was heard the world around,
The idlespear and shield were high up hung,
The hooked chariot stood
Unstain’d with hostile hlood;
The trumpet spake not to the armed throng;
And king’s sat’still with awful eye,
As if they surely knew their sovereign Lord was by,” is the wish of the Scholastic.
—As we do not intend publishing the Scholastic during the holidays, we shall be obliged to anticipate in this issue by wishing all a happy New Year. Many are under the impression that when they are saluted with “ I wish you a happy New Year,” that only the first day of the New Year is meant, and in returning the salutation, they have The same intention. We are not of this class; so that when we say, we wish you a happy New Year we mean that you should be happy not only the first day, but the whole three hundred and sixty-five. We once had a dispute with a certain party in regard to this matter, he maintaining that only the first day of the year was meant when giving the New Year’s greeting. We asked him to adduce arguments in support of his assertion, when he informed us that his greatest and only argument was. that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
233
as most young men are in a very unhappy, or at least unenviable, state on the 2d, the first day alone could be meant, as they are all happy on that day. It is unnecessary for us to remark that his was not a very convincing argument, although we were then, and are still, forced to admit that there was more truth than fiction in it.
We hope that with the beginning of the New Year all will be firmly resolved to do everything in their power to make 1881 a year to which they can point in after-life as having been profitably and well spent—one during which every student will have stored away intellectual treasures which will in after years be both the ornament and riches of a useful career. Now is the time for us all to take good resolutions for the New Year, and having once taken them, endeavor to retain them until the joyful bells shall -welcome the advent of another new year. Some will resolve to be more diligent in their studies; others will endeavor to part company with some particular vice or failing; many will resolve to forsake the company of evil companions—each one will resolve to do that which he feels and knows to be the most essential to either his moral, physical, or intellectual advancment. But no matter what each one may intend doing, let him set about it manfully, resolved that, come what may, he will, at all hazards, carry out his resolutions, and then he may rest assured that his endeavors will be successful.
As the Scholastic sends forth its New Year’s greeting to its subscribers, we seem to hear them with one voice reply: “A happy New Year to the Scholastic.”
-----------♦. -------------
—From the report of the Congressional proceedings of the 13th inst., we learn that our gallant friend Major Calkins offered the following resolution in the United States House of Representatives: “ Resolved, That the sympathy of this House is hereby extended to the unhappy laboring class of Ireland in its effort to effect reform in the present oppressive tenant system prevailing in th’ht- country.” The resolution was adopted by a unanimous vote. The 'Chicago Times of the 14th, commenting on the resolutions offered by the Indiana Representative, says, that whether the House was actuated by feelings of the loftiest humanity, or whether it was merely seeking after political effect in adopting Major Calkins’s resolution of sympathy with the suffering Irish, it was meddling with what was none of its business. “ The Irish may be amply justified in all that they do, and The Times has repeatedly expressed its belief in the need of reform in Ireland, but the question of right is between the Irish people and the British government; for the American government to formally avow its approval of the Land-leaguers is an extraordinary proceeding. The American colonists were justified in revolting, but when France espoused their cause, it meant war with England. The British House of Commons never went so far as to vote its approval of the rebels in our civil war, and yet we came near fighting England on account of her sympathy with the rebels. If the United States wants to fight England in behalf of Irish home-rule or independence, let it be understood; if not, the House of Representatives had better not vote its sympathies to the subject of a friendly power who are in a state of quasi insurrection.” This is all mere bosh. When Major Calkins moved that resolution we dare say he knew well what he was doing, and was actuated by the noblest of motives; but as he is a Republican, and the House of Representatives, still possesses
a Democratic majority, we cannot see where the point d'ap-pui of motives of policy on the part of the House, urging its passage with a unanimous vote, could come in'with any effect. If the House of Commons sympathized with the South in the late war, and chose to pass a resolution of sympathy while it withheld all aid, direct or indirect, what could we do about it? Declare war against Eng, land ? Not a bit of it; our statesmen were not such fools. We might feel piqued, but we could go no further. We did not come near fighting England on account of her sympathy with the South, but because she covertly furnished it aid in the conflict, practical sympathy, such as France and Ireland furnished the Colonies.when they rebelled against England. When we do the same for Ireland there will be a casus belli; not before, as anybody with common sense knows. And why should not Americans sympathize with the landlord-ridden, starving Irish, or with any other people under similar circumstances? This is not attempting to justify the violence and murders perpetrated in Ireland, even though committed by a people driven to despair by starvation and insult. We are told by the correspondent of the New York Tribune (an American) that the murdered Lord Leitrim used his influence and position as a landlord to destroy the honor of thirty young female tenants before his violent death—is it any wonder that the families thus insulted and dishonored should, already perhaps driven to despair by hunger and destitution, seek revenge or take his life ? How long would such a monster be permitted to live here, before lynch law or a pistol ball would put an end to his career ? Murder is not justifiable in any case, but why does not English law protect the tenant from such monsters as Leitrim and Mountmorres? Only a short time ago a poor person was evicted in a dying condition, and the corpse thrown on the roadside as if it were that of a dog! Shame upon the humanity, the civilised humanity, that would tolerate such heartless crimes. The whole civilized world should raise its voice against a Government that permits such scenes. All honor to Major Calkins, the Republican Representative, that moved the resolution of sympathy with the poor victims of such legislation; he does honor to his State (Indiana), to his country, to humanity; all honor to the Democratic House that passed his resolution with a unanimous vote. There is no danger of a declaration of war resulting from this vote. Major Calkins is too astute a lawyer and statesman to fall into such a trap, as he is too noble a specimen of manhood to allow such inhuman outrages to go unrebuked. Such is the impoverished condition of even the better class of the Irish peasantry to-day, under absentee and grasping landlords that their children, girls as well as boys, have often to go barefoot a distance of three or four miles to school, in winter, as we are told in a letter from a niece of O’Connell’s to an acquaintance at the University here. And this is almost wholly the result of bad laws and British misgovernment.
—The event of the session was unquestionably the Cect-lian Exhibition. It had reasons of all kind in its favor-It was given by one of the favorite societies of the institution and the play was one of the choicest in their repertory. The programme was varied, the music was fine, the costumes elegant, and, above all, the exercises were hot dragged out to a wearisome length. In this last respect especially we would hold up the Cecilians as models
234
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
worthy to he imitated by the other societies in their entertainments, literary or dramatic. This Exhibition witnessed the first public appearance of the new Cornet Band during the present session. The old members, as a matter of course, did will; the new recruits—many of whom display decided aptitude—acquitted themselves as creditably as might have been expected, and the indications are that the Notre Dame University Cornet Band will be in a most flourishing condition before many months have elapsed. The Orchestra, although it has been only a few weeks organized, is already in a high state of efficiency.
• It has at present a larger nucleus of skilled musicians than for some years past, and it bids fair to remind us of the palmy days of the Musical Department at Notre Dame. At all events, the excellent manner in which the spirited overture was rendered was appreciated by the audience and drew forth hearty plaudits from them.
The address of the evening, dedicating the exercises to Very Rev. Eather General, was read in excellent style by Master C. A. Tinley. Then followed a spirited declamation by J. P. O’Neill, a side-splitting selection by E. C. Orrick—which bore a pompous Latin title but which eventually proved to bear a strong family resemblance to our old friend, the “ harp of a thousand strings,”—a prologue, unusually well delivered by Masters E. Fischel and C. Rietz, a piece by the University Quartette, and then the curtain rose on the first act of the “ Recognition.” This drama, written several years ago expressly for the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, is associated with recollections of the palmiest days of the Society. When it was first produced at Notre Dame, we were informed in the opening address, the leading roles were taken by the Dodges, Wiles, Staleys, Footes, and others, who have long since graduated, but whose names are still remembered in the College annals as indentified with the history of the past triumphs of the St. Cecilians. The hope was then expressed that the recollection of the excellent acting of the Cecilians of former years would not render the audience over critical or lead them to expect too much of the comparatively inexperienced youths to whom the reputation of the Society was for the present entrusted. The unanimous verdict of the audience, after the play had proceeded for some time, was that the honor and reputation of the Society were in very safe keeping. The old members of the Society, useless to say, maintained the favorable impression which their former efforts had created, while the new members gave satisfactory proof that when the time comes for them to assume the leading rules they will not be found wanting.
The easy yet dignified bearing, the graceful action, and the clear, distinct and ringing delivery of many of the young amateurs elicited general admiration. Master C. A; Tinley, who, as Duke of Spoleto headed the list of the dramatis persona on the programme, proved that he was justly entitled to such a distinction; C. J. Brinkman, as Ricardo, though somewhat out of voice was yet' in bearing and sentiment “every inch a soldier”; Joseph P. Homan personated the aged Count Bartolo with dignity and feeling—doing some of the most effective acting of the evening; R. E. Fleming, who for the first time “trod the stage ” in a leading role, acquitted himself to his own credit and the satisfaction of the audience; F. H. Grever, as Antonio, was graceful as well as pathetic; J. O’Neill was a pedagogue of more than ordinary inefficiency and self-sufficiency; E. Orrick, J. Morgan and A. Bodine took the
parts of bronzed and battle-scarred veterans with the proper dash and spirit; and our admiration was about equally divided between the gorgeous costumes of the two young pages, J. H. Burns and N. Nelson, and their graceful rendition of their respective parts. W. Cleary, as Paolo, the overseer, and C. J. McDermott, as Zucchi, the blacksmith, had only secondary parts, but there was the “ ring of the true metal” in their manner of playing them. Master Cleary is only a new member, we believe, but we feel confident that he will be’ heard from again, and that, too, in a way that will reflect no discredit on the Cecilians. The other roles were very creditably filled by Messrs. J. W. Guthrie, T. Flynn, J. Hintze, H. Rose, A. M. Coghlin, J. Gordon, J. Scanlan, G. Castanedo, N. Ewing, H. Hake, C. Rietz, F. Kleine, W. D. Cannon, C. Rose, J. Ruppe, E. Prenatt, E. Fischel and G. Silverman.
The epilogue, which was short and to the point, was delivered by Master F. H. Grever. The closing remarks, likewise brief and happily put, were made by Very Rev. Father General, and the audience dispersed more than pleased with the Cecilians, and delighted to see that they are able to maintain the old-time reputation of their Association. The only fault which anyone could find with the Entertainment was the want of vocal music; but for this neither the Cecilians nor their director are to blame. There is at present in this Society, and in fact in all the others, an abundance of good material to work on, and with the attention which the courses of vocal music will receive at Notre Dame, in future, we hope to see this branch take the prominent part in all future entertainments, to which it is justly entitled.	*
5
i
1
—Once more do we hail the advent of a festival, the bare mention of which enkindles in the heart of every one feelings of joy and gladness. Indeed since the announcement of the “ tidings of great joy ” was first made, there is not a country in which the Christmas bell has resounded that has not preserved the remembrance of the time-hallowed custom of blending pleasure and gaiety, and even" the material commemoration of this event contributes to perpetuate the remembrance of a mystery of all others the most sublime.
That
“ Christmas comes but once a year” may be a source of regret to many, for the simple reason-that
“ When it comes it brings good cheer.”
The laudable custom of celebrating the anniversary of great events is a powerful means of keeping alive and transmitting to future generations the remembrance of the performers of great deeds. The liberation of our country from the shackles of a despotic Government gave rise to the celebration of the Fourth of July, and thus the remembrance and the recollection of what our sires were able “ to dare and do ” is transmitted to posterity. Much more desirable is it, then, to see handed down, to have written, and to acquaint other generations with the happy fact of our liberation from the bondage of sin and death, and the associating its remembrance with our pleasure and amusements tends but the more effectually to engrave it indelibly on our hearts. Indeed, at Notre Dame, whether in religious ceremonies or pleasant amusement, nothing seems to be overlooked to make this an event of great joy,
It is not surprising to see Christmas anticipated, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	235
T
preparations made to take advantage of the eyjoyment afforded, whether we go to fill the vacant place in the family circle or stay here. Again and again do we hear it urged that it would be well to see this going home on vacation done away with altogether, on the plea that it is a source of distraction from study, of inconvenience, and not always productive of good results. There is not the least doubt that going home at Christmas interferes a great deal with studies, that much time is lost, distraction and inconvenience occasioned, and so forth, and so forth, as the College authorities invariably remind us of the fact year after year, advising students not to go, that their parents are too indulgent, and not aware of the bad effect caused by their going, that it tends to demoralize them, and that it takes a long time to get down to business again, etc., etc., but, nevertheless, go the boys will, no matter what the consequences may be. After all, is there anything more reasonable ? What greater consolation is there for any family than to meet once a year to commemorate this great festival, by innocent and lawful amusements and feasting to keen alive or to enkindle anew that spirit of joy and mutual affection which is sought in vain elsewhere than in the family circle. That there is some delay and trouble in coming to time, cannot be easily denied, but “ when we were a boy ” the conviction was brought home to us that a trip gives fresh vigor and new strength for
. the coming session.
There is, we must admit, some danger to be apprehended from going out, which arises from a false idea of freedom, of liberty. How many do we not see deluded by that word liberty! How many crimes do we not see perpretrated which is cloaked under the counterfeit of that great virtue! Freedom does not consist in being one’s own master, in being emancipated from the control of parents or guardians. If this was liberty, vagrants and vagabonds of every description would boast of being the most free. One alone is free. God is free; and so constituted is society that we are mutually depending on one another. Never perhaps was there witnessed or enjoyed such freedom, such happiness, as is found in a family well order ed and obedient to paternal rule. How many prodigals could you find on this night who seek to console himself bv keeping from his mind the thought of the many happy Christmas days he had enjoyed.
To those that have left us for a few days, not less than to those staying here, we wish every enjoyment; and as New Year’s Day will be numbered among the past before our next issue, we wish all
A Merry Christmas and a Harry New Year!
Personal.
—F. X. Claffey, ’76, was at the University last Sunday. F. X. is teaching school at Niles, Mich.
_ —James M. Howard, ’62, Attorney at Law, Logansport, Ind., spent a few days with us during the past week.
—R. W. Staley, ’74, paid us a visit this week. Bob is looking as well as usual. Care doesn’t seem to furrow his brow much.
—J. McFadden, ’76, called to see his many friends here last Monday. John is residing at Memphis, Tenn., where he is prospering financially and otherwise.
—Mr. H. Fendrick, of Evansville, Ind., was here last Monday to see his son—Master C. Fendrick, of the Junior department—home, whither he has gone to spend the Christmas holidays.
—Rev. Father R. Maher, C. S. C., who visited the old country recently has returned, we are pleased to see, in excellent health. He will shortly depart for his mission in Iowa, where he is greatly beloved. While in Ireland Father Meagher visited the famous Chapel of Knock, and other places of interest. He bears such a striking resemblance to the venerable Archdeacon Cavanagh that he was several times mistaken for him. Father Maher was on the same ship, when returning to this country, with Mr. Chang, the genial Chinese giant, who will visit him at his pastorate in Iowa, we understand, early in the
spring. Mr. Chang is highly regarded by all who have met him both here and abroad.
—Among our visitors for the past week were Mr T. Terry and lady, Eudaire, Mich.; T. Maher, Cleveland, Ohio.; Rev. J. V- Leent, Addie Walsh, Mrs. M. Richey, Mrs. T. J. Wilson, Jas. J. Murray and Minnie More, Chicago, HL; J. McCullinane, Dowagiac, and M. McCullinane, Silver Creek, Mich.; M. J. Dougherty, Galveston, Ill.; Mrs. C. McCauley Exeter, Neb.; D. W. Collins, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. J. A. Howley and A. Ford, South Bend.; H.F. Dowler, D. C. Claffey, Bertrand, Mich.; Ida M. Bower, Plymouth, Ind.; J. W. Smith and J. Seeger, Cromwell, Ind.; J. W. Wiggins, Mishawaka, Ind.; J. H. Keeler, Marshall, Mich.; J. Sterler, Sacramento, Cal.; Miss R. Jones, Wolf Lake, Ind.; and Miss Jennie Palmer, Chicago, Ill.
Local Items.
A Happy New Year to All!
—“ Mike ” has gone home.
—Who will get that sofa?
—Locals are scarce this week.
—Gray is the “ boss ” at handball..
—“Good-bye” is heard on all sides.
—Bertie has gone to his St. Joe home.
—New Year’s calls will be soon in order.
—“ Smithery” keeps an aquarium in his desk.
—“ Marshal ” did not go to Detroit this vacation.
—"Shades” will spend the Christmas at Notre Dame.
—Bro. Ireneus went to Chicago last Wednesday morning.
—Classes were continued until Tuesday evening, Dec. 21st.
—We shall not receive calls at our sanctum New Year’s Day.
—About thirty Juniors will spend the holidays at Notre Dame.
—The “ Engraver ” will not visit Chicago, as was his intention.
—The “ Corporal ” doesn’t wish to visit his Ohio friends.' Oh, no! •
—Who got the worst of that slipper game? Ask the
“ Corporal.”
—Grever and Fleming are the study-hall Faculty for the holidays.
—“Tommy” was beaten at a game of handball by a score of 7 to 1.
—Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., is spending the holidays at Valparaiso, Ind.
—Mr. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., will spend the holidays at . his home in Oconto, Wis.
—The Seniors thank Bro. Ireneus for rec. in the studyhall last Saturday evening.
—A good time was had by the members of the Academia last Wednesday evening	.
—Rev. J.'O’Keeffe and Bro. Leander accompanied the boys to Chicago, Tuesday morning.	.
—A grand old time was had by the Juniors and Seniors in the rotunda last Monday night.
—The solemn chant of the Office of Christmas will commence at ten o’clock, Friday night.
—The “Marshal” will while away the merry times in caring for the warblers in Cecilia Hall.
—The majority of the Juniors and Seniors took their departure for home last Tuesday morning.
—The Sorins are anxiously looking for Very Rev. Father General’s drama—The New Arts.
—Several grand Christmas cribs were placed in the Church and chapels here during the past week.
—The name of N. H. Ewing was omitted, through mistak from the Roll of Honor, in the issue of Dec. 11th.
—Several spirited and close games of handball were
5
236
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
played on the Juniors’ alleys, last Tuesday afternoon.
—There’s nothing that makes a man “ cuss ” sooner than when he places his mucilage brush into a bottle of ink.
—The premiums for politeness in the Junior Department was awarded to Messrs. Rose and Tinley, ex aquo.
—“Duzin Blossom” left for Chicago last Tuesday morning. May happiness unalloyed be thine, “ Duzin ”!
—The Scholastic will not be published next week. It intends spending this vacation in “solitude thrice blessed.”
—A few “Freshies” and “Sophs” will remain here to give a classical tone to events transpiring during the holidays.
—Some having despaired of ever raising a decent-looking beard are now seen with “ the face of youth” once more.
—A new bell has been purchased for.the Chapel of the Porliuncula, and is now being placed in the steeple of that beautiful Chapel.	•	-
—There will be no scarcity of ice next summer. The large ice-house, which is capable of holding a two years’ supply, is packed full.
—“Marshal,” will make a good old pedagogue in time, judging from the manner in which' he handled himself and his eye-glasses the other night. , ‘
—Mr. Dailey, our horticulturist, put,in an appearance last week, after a protracted absence from “ our fairy dells,” looking as hale and hearty as ever. ' *' .
—About twenty-five Minims have gdhe. home for the Christmas holidays, and still enough remain to make it the liveliest department at the University.’-.1
—Messrs. G. Clarke, T. F. Clarke, W. McG'orrisk, R. E. Fleming, H. Simms and F. Grever, all of the Scholastic staff, will remain here during the holidays.
—All the boys left for home Tuesday morning, with the exception of a few who were permitted to go on Saturday, on account of the distance they had to travel.
—Messrs. Fleming and Grever will attend to matters pertaining to the Scholastic during the holidays. Locals, personals, essays, etc., may be handed to them.
—Shickey’s business received a “ boom ” during the past two weeks. Trunks, students and visitors, going and coming, made things lively for that gentleman.
—Messrs. G. Clarke, H. Simms, T. F. Clarke and W. McGorrisk will attend to matters appertaining to the Scholastic in the Senior department during the holidays. ’
—Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger paid a flying visit to the College last Tuesday, to take his nephew, who is a student in the Minim department, home for the Christmas holidays. ‘	.
—The Minims worked so earnestly at their studies until the last day, and their conduct was so good, that if a Roll of Honor had been published this week the names of all would appear.
—From present indications, skating will- not be very good during the holidays. Both lakes are covered with about three inches of hardened snow, which makes its removal by the snow-plow impossible.
—Rev. P. J. Kollop was celebrant of the 10 o’clock High Mass last Sunday. Rev. J. A. Zahm preached “ On the Existence of God.” Messrs. Cleary and Gordon were the head-servers and F. Farrelly leader.
—As we stated in our last, Master C. C. Echlin will sing the Adeste Fideles at Midnight Mass on Friday next. The first verse will be a solo; the second, a duet by Messrs. Grever and Echlin, and the third a trio.	*
—The subject of the “ Corporal’s ” lecture to be delivered- before the close of the holidays, in presence of those who remain here during Christmas week, is, we are informed, “ The Eccentricities of the Macropus.”
—The Sorins formally presented the statue of St. Edward, a description of which appeared in last week’s Scholastic, to Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, last Monday morning.
—During the week, J. Francis Smith finished an ex-
cellent crayon portrait of J. Marlette. We noticed on Mr	:
Smith’s easel the beginning of a picture, in oil, of Mr. Milo	’
A. Smith, the genial and energetic proprietor of South Bend’s best book-store.
—The 10th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held Dec. 18th. F. Prenatt and J. Bennett were elected members; declamations were given by F. Wheatley, M. Herrick, A. Browne, E. Munce. After a short debate, the meeting adjourned.
—Laborers are still busy tearing up the grounds behind the College for the purpose of making a connection with the new powerful steam-pump, which is now immediately connected with Lake St. Joe. The ground is frozen so • hard that it is found necessary to make huge fires over the spots to be excavated before digging becomes possible.
—We have noticed that of late several articles, which have appeared in our columns, have been copied by some of our exchanges, and no credit given us. This, we think, is hardly fair: for while we have no objections to having our brain-work reproduced in any of our exchanges which may deem them worthy of that mark of distinction, we cannot refrain from asking them to do us the justice of crediting us with the productions.
—A man that will for the sake of amusement (devilment would be a more appropriate word) wantonly kick, or otherwise seriously injure a good dog, has more of the brute than the man in him. And yet such a disgraceful occurrence took place here last week. A young man, whose name we’ll suppress for the present, gave a brutal beating to one of the best rat-terriers at the University. If the individual who is guilty of such a disagreeable and cowardly act were treated in like manner, he would but get his deserts.
—The following is the title-page of Very Rev. Father	,
General’s drama: “.The New Arts. Not exactly of recent invention, as their origin dates from the Garden of	,
Eden. A little drama in three acts, written at Notre	•'
Dame for the exclusive benefit of the Minims, Juniors and Seniors, to whom it is affectionately offered as a Christmas gift by one of their oldest friends.” The printers are busily at work at it, and in a few days copies of it will be ready.
We are anxous to see it; for if it bears any resemblance to the productions which we have seen from Father General’s pen, it will be worth exhibiting on the stage.
—A venerable old lady in South Bend, during a pro-	•
traded illness, finding she could not sleep, sent for her	>
minister. The good man, on his arrival, kindly asked	’
what he could do that would contribute to her personal	f
happiness. " Rev. sir, I have not been able to close an eye	|
for the past ten days,” said she, “ and if you would have	£
the goodness to preach a sermon for me I am sure I could sleep right away; for I always did so when you preached for us in church.” The good man put his head in his hat, made rapid strides for the door, and was soon outsidebreathing heaven’s pure air.
—The following is a list of boys that have not been off the Roll of Honor so far this session: A. A. Brown, C. J. Brinkman, A. A. Bodine, W. J. Cavanaugh, W. S. Cleary, H. P. Dunn, A J. Dennis, N. H. Ewing, T. F. Flynn, J. H. Fendrick, R. E. Fleming, E. Fischel, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, A Hintze, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. A. Joyce, F. Kleine, J. Kelly, G. Haslam, S. Livingston, F. McPhillips, J.-Me-	*
Clarnon, J. L. Morgan, C. J. McDermott, N. J. Nelson,	'
E. C. Orrick, H. Rose, C. Rietz, J. Ruppe, Geo. Schaefer, J. M. Scanlan, G. A. Truschel, C. A. Tinley, F. J. Woeber, N. J. Weney.
—The second premium for politeness was unanimously voted to Master A Brown by the members of the Junior Department. In voting for the first and second premiums for politeness the following young gentlemen were honored by receiving one or more votes: M. O’Neill, R. E. Fleming, C. F. Rietz, M. Butler, V. Butler, J. Burns, A. Bodine, W. Barron, H. Dunn, N. Ewing, J. Fendrick, J. Gordon, L. Gibert, F. Grever, H. Hake, T. Hurley, A. Hintze, J. Homan, F. Johnson, A. Jackson, P. Joyce, F. Kengel, F. Kleine, J. Kelly, G. Haslam, S. Livingston, A. Mendel, W. Mahon, F. McPhillips, J. Morgan, C. McDermott, C. Murdock, S. Murdock, J. Martin, H. Morse,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	237
N. Nelson, E. Orrick, L. O’Donnell, J. Ruppe, H. Sells, Geo. Schaefer J. Scanlan, E. Smith, G. Truschel.
—The Sorins’ Association Hall has been fitted up in grand style. The walls have been beautifully calcimined and otherwise decorated in a highly artistic manner by Bro. Frederick, C. S. C., to whom the Sorins return a vote of thanks for his kindness. A large and commodious stage has been erected by Bro. Charles, 0. S. 0., and furnished with a rich brussels carpet by a friend of the Association, for which the Sorins also proffer their thanks. With a good organ and a magnificent chandelier, both presented by President Corby, and several really beautiful and costly pictures adorning the walls, to say nothing of the rich curtains which hang in graceful folds from the window tops, the Hall presents a 'highly creditable appearance, and is one of which the members may well feel proud. A formal opening will take place when the boys return from their holiday trip.
—The 14th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Dec. 17th. Master J. H. Fen-drick was elected a member; Master C. Tinley read a well-written criticism on the exercises of the last meeting; Master F. Grever was appointed critic for this meeting; Master C. McDermott was unanimously elected Treasurer pro tern.; Master A. Hintze was elected First Monitor. A unanimous vote of thanks was tendered to Very Rev. President Corby, Rev.Father Walsh, Mr.T. McNamara, C. S. C., Prof. J. F. Edwards, Bros. Leander, Simon and Bruno for favors to the members on the occasion of their 23d annual celebration. Public readers for this and next week are: C. Rietz, F. Grever, J. Morgan, J. Guthrie, R. Fleming, .1. P. O’Neill, E. C. Orrick, N. Nelson, J. Ruppe, A. Bodine, E. Fischel, C. McDermott, F. Kleine, G. C. Cas-tanedo, N. Ewing and E. Prenatt.
—Mr. A. Gall, of Indianapolis, Ind., has generously given the following books to the Lemonnier Library: History of The English People, by J. R. Grimm, Examiner in the School of Modern History, Oxford; Queen Victoria’s Journal; Our Life in the Highlands, from 1848 to 1861, Edited by Arthur Helps; Our New West, Records of Travel Between the Mississippi River and the Pacific Ocean, with Maps and Portraits, by Samuel Bowles; A Personal History of Ulysses S. Grant, Illustrated by Engravings and Maps, with a Sketch of Schuyler Colfax, by Albert D. Richardson; Charles Lamb’s Complete Works, Including Elia and Eliana—the last containing the hitherto uncollected writings of Lamb, corrected and revised—with a Sketch of his Life, by Sir Thomas Noon Talfourd, 3 vols.; A History of Our Own Times, from the Accession of Queen Victoria to the General Election of 1880, by Justin McCarthy, 2 vols. The Librarian requests us to announce that the Library Association returned a vote of thanks to Mr. Gall for his valuable donation.
—A group of “ Freshies,” anxious for a lark, lately accosted a portly gentleman, who is a great patron of canines, with the intention of drawing him out on dogmatics, a science in which he is a great proficient. They broke the ice by asking what had become of Minnie, his favorite terrier—the aged progenitor of all the rat-terriers, of which Notre Dame feels so justly proud. It is a well-known fact in this latitude that though this patron of canines is yet a young man, he is nevertheless very long in this world. Drawing himself up to his full manly proportions, and assuming the regular, oratorical, first position of the right foot, he said: “ Gentlemen, that little quadruped died the funniest death you ever heard of. Being raised by a gentleman of the Ethiopian persuasion in Chicago, and ever true to the traditions of her early surroundings, she paid a nocturnal visit to a hen-roost on the St. Joe farm, and swallowed a feather, which tickled her so unmercifully’ that she died laughing.” “You should honor her memory with a lacrymose obituary in the Scno-lastic,” said one. Drawing forth a paper from his pocket, he said: “ Here it is, gentlemen, ” and proceeded to read the following doggerel, to their great amusement:
“A rollicksome, frolicsome, good little ninny As ever did nothing was our dog Minny;
As quick as a hound to run after a beast, And quick as the wind when she came to a feast.
So full of good nature, she would never fail
To tell you the same by the wag of her tail, Which wriggled so gleeful whene’er she was at The redblent portal of some skulking rat. But alas, she is dead! and we all well know
That she’s gone to the place where all canines go, Where rodents in future she must let alone,
Nor trouble our kind-hearted cooks for a bone.”
—Thursday evening was a very pleasant one for the stu -dents of the University of Notre Dame, the occasion being the celebration by the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society of its 23d anniversary. The Entertainment was complimentary to the Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation.of the Holy Cross. The programme was an excellent one, consisting of music and recitations, and that sterling and spirited drama, “The Recognition,” written for the St. Cecilia Society by the late Rev. A. Lemonnier. The plot of the play turns upon the recognition of a son by his father, after they had been separated for a number of years. The scene is laid in Italy, in the 15th century. A feud existed between the Duke of Spo-leto and the Prince of Macerata, who waged constant war against each other. In one of the battles the duke loses his son, and to prevent the prince from becoming his heir, gives out that his boy is only wounded, and seizes Antonio, the son of Count Bartolo, whom he raised as his own. Bartolo learns of this, and takes up the cause of the Prince of Macerata. Antonio is finally taken prisoner by his father’s men, and condemned to die, it being supposed that he is the duke’s son. But Bartolo sends for him, and a recognition ensues. At this juncture the duke attempts a rescue, receives his death wound, and dies begging the pardon of Bartolo. The various parts were exceedingly well sustained by the boy actors, and all present were much delighted by the performance. Superior-General Sorin, Father Corby, Provincial of the Order, and others of the clergy were present, with several guests of the University, among whom was your correspondent. It may not be out of place to remark right here that the University was never in a more prosperous condition, although it feels severely the loss, by last year’s fire, of all its libraries and collections, for the renewing of which it has to depend^upon the gifts of its friends. Its sister institution, the Academy of St. Mary’s, is also in a flourishing condition and has a full complement of pupils;—South-Bend Daily Tribune.
6-
Jr
(tb i Q TO 20 PER WEEK. Agents wanted to canvass for Mcgee's Illustrated Weekly, Box 2120, New
York.	n6-7t
Weeklv Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COZLTJMOBIAJN, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.	'
‘	D. A. Clabke, o? 70.
mH n Avd; AIJLUTA., a Catholic journal devoted to the I Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
Matthews & Holt,
PLUMBERS & GASFITTERS, MANUFACTURERS OF
GAS MACHINES,
AND DEALERS IN GASOLINE, 75 Dearborn St, Unity Block, CHICAGO, ILL.
Refer by Permission to University of Notre Dame, Ind.
238	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
RAILROAD.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
Depots, foot of Lake St, Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St., and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St. and at the depots.
Leave. Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger........*7:25 a.m. * 7:30 p.m
Nebraska and Kansas Express........* 9:30 a.m.	* 4:05 p.m
Rockford and Freeport Express......*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Dubuque and Sioux City Express.....*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Pacific Fast Express...............*10:30 a.m.	*3:40 p.m
Kansas and Colorado Express........*10:30	a.m.	* 3:40 p.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation.......* 8:25 a.m.	* 1:35 p.m
Aurora Passenger...................* 3:15 p.m.	* 7:55 a.m
Mendota and Ottawa Express.........* 4:35 p.m. *10:40 a.m
Aurora Passenger...................'.* 5:30 p.m.’ * 8:55 a.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation.......*6:15 p.m. * 7:15 a.m, Freeport and Dubuque Express.......*9:30p m.	*6:35 a.m
Pacific Night Express for Omaha....+ 9:05 p.m.	J 6:55 a.m
Texas Fast Express.................* 9:05 p.m.	J 6:55 a.m
Kansas City and St Joe Express.....+ 9:05 p.m.	J 6:55 a.m
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleeping Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.
•Sundays excepted. tSaturday excepted. ^Monday excepted. For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations apply to
C. W. Smith,	James R. Wood,'
Traffic Manager,	Gen. Pass. Agent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Favorable and Popular Route to all points in the South Southwest and West.
Oct. 24, 1880. Local and Through Time Table. No. 20.
Going'	North.	STATIONS.	Going	South.
1.30 a m.	4.20 p.m.	Arbive	Leave - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m.	8.05 p.m.
12.45 “	3 35 “	- - - - La Porte, - -	10.23 “	855 «
12.18 “	3.14 “	- - • Stillwell, - - -	10.41 “	9.20 “
11.57 p.m.	2.53 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.00 “	9.47 “
11.27 “	2 28 “	- - - Plymouth, - - -	11.35 “	10.83 “
10.34 “	1.30 “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12.27 p.m.	11.33 “
9.58 “	12 51 “	- - - - Denver, • • •	1.06 “	12.12 a.m.
9.35 «	12.10 “	----- Peru, - - - -	1.45 “	12.40 “
9.08 “	11.50 a.m.	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.05 “	1.01 “
8.38 “	11.21 “	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	2.32 “	1.45 “
7.54 “	10.41 “	- - - - Tipton, - -	3.16 “	2.23 “
7.12 «	9.57 “	- - - Noblesville, • - -	4.00 “	3.04 “
6.10 “	8.50 “	Lv. - Indianapolis, - Ab.	5.00 “	4.00 “
THE ONLY LINE Running a noon Train out of Indianapolis for NORTHERN INDIANA and MICHIGAN, and for Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST.
Elegant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANAPOLIS and;CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY.
For Reliable Information and Rates of Fare to all Points, Address
7. T. Mallott, - Chas. H. Rockwell, GeuTManager,Indianapolis.	Gen’l.Pass.and. Ticket Agent.
Robert King,
TEACHER OF
Elocution and Dramatic Art,
(Since 1855,)
73 TWENTY-SIXTH STREET,
CHICAGO.
Liberal arrangements made with Colleges and Universities-for Dramatic Recitals and Humorous Readings.
Terms sent on application.
oct23-3m
0. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railawy.
embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS® are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	239
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1873for the useof the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &e., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited- and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by'the librarian. Please address
J. IP.
Notre Dane, Indiana.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE IP. EGAX.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
I?rlcc, $1, postpaid.
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 14,1889, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING- EAST.
2.25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. m.; Cleveland 2 30 p m •
Buffalo 8.50 p. m.	‘ ’
11.05 a. m., Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. m.; Cleveland 10.10 p. in.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.12 p. in., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m.
12.16 p. m., Special New York Express, over-Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. m., Cleveland, 1010 d m •
Buffalo, 4 a. m.	r‘
6.21 p. m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p. m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a. m.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a. m., Toledo Express.	Arrives at Laporte 3.35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m.
5.05 a. m., Pacific Express.	Arrives at Laporte 5.50 a. m., Chicago 8.20 a. m.
. 0.93 a. m., Accommodation.	Arrives at Laporte 9.05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. m.;	Chicago, 11.30 a.	m.
1.16 p. m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.12. p. m.; Chesterton, 2.52	p. m.;	Chicago, 440 p. m.
4 50 p. m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5 33; Chesterton, 6.15 p. m.; Chicago, 8 p. m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.
EASTWARD.	2 MAIL.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Express.	8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Express.
Chicago	Leave Grand Crossing	:	 “ Miller’s	 “ Chesterton.	‘.	 “ Otis	 “	7 35 a.m. 8 09 “ 9 10 “ 9 32 “ 9 47 “ 10 06 “ 10 08 “ 11 05 “ 11 15 “ 1140 “ 5 25 p.m. 4 50 “ 10 10 a.m.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ 12 05 a.m. 12 32 “ 12 52 “	3 30 p.mi.
					
					
		11 02	“ 11 20	“ 11 22	“ 12 16	p.m.	7 32 “		
Laporte	  .Arrive					
Laporte	Leave South Bend	 “ Mishawaka	 “ Elkhart..	Arrive Toledo	     “			8 20 “ 9 12 « 9 20 “ 9 45 “	120 “ 2 25 “ 2 35 “ 3 00 a.m. 9 50 “ 2 55 p.m. . 815 “ 10 30 a.m. 2 40 p.m. -	5 38	“ 6 21 “
		12 50 “			6.45 “ 10 50 “ 2 00 a.m. 7.40. “ 10 10 p.m.
Cleveland.;'.	 “ Buffalo	 “ New York	 “ Poston....	   K		10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m. 9 45 “	7 30 “ 1 25, p.m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “		
					
					
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL..Gen’l. Manager. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
240
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOGRAPHER.
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOUTH BEND, - - IND.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JE WELBY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Way ne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time T'a'blc, Noy. 7, 1SS O
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seals In the finest declining Chair falau'Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL
• POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tile Sliort JLlne to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne*, braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and, South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Chablton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent,	• Gen’l Manager
210 Dearborn st., near cor. of Adams, Chicago.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5. Limit Ex
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,....		 Alliance,	 Orrville,				12.05 a.m. 1.15 “ 3.30 “ 5.00 “ 6.55 “ 7.25 “	9.15 a.m. 10.10 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.18 “ 5.40 “ 6.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	7.30 p.m. 10.25 p.m.
Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Aeeive				1.40 A.M.
Crestlin	Leave Forest			7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 ". •1.15 p.m. 3.46 “ 7.00 “	6.35 P.M. 8.18 “ '9.30 “ 12.08 A.M. 2.50 “ 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.28 •• 12.32 A.M. 2.40 • 4.55 “ 8.00 “	1.45 A.M.
Lima	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth	 Chicago,	Aeetve				5.35 “ 7.16 “ 9.40 “
GOING EAST.				
	No. 8, Fast Line	No. 2, Morn.Ex	No. 4, Atlan.Ex.	No. 6, N. Y. Ex.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,		 Lima,		9.40 p.m. 2.50 A.M. 6.55 “ 8.55 “ . 10.08 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.53 “ 2.35 p.m. 4.36 “ 5.43 “ 7.10 “	5.15 p.m. 9.25 “ 12.15 A.M. 2.38 “ 3.55 “ 5.30	3.30 p.m. 8.35 p.m.
Forest,	 Crestline,	Abbive				• ••••«•••• 12 35 a.m.
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville	 Alliance,			 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Abbtve	12.05 P.M. 12.35 “ 2.26.“ . 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.30 p.m. 8.03 “ 10.06 “ 1145 “ 2.04 A.M. 3.15 “	6 40 a.m. 7,20. 923 . “ 1125 “ 2.10 “ 3.15 p.m.	1240 a.m. 115 “ 2.57 “ 4.25 “ 7.30 A.M.
Trains Nos. 3, 6, 5 and 4 run daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 8 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that runs the celebrated Pttt.t.matt PAT.Arm Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at al rincipal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A