lotre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper victurus: vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 5, 1881.
Number 9.
War.
BY M. F. HEALY.
War is a means adopted by the majority of mankind for the adjustment of certain difficulties. That it has been a means used for this purpose from the earliest time, we know by referring to history. As to the right and expediency of it, there is, and always has been, a great difference of opinion. Those who favor the right of it, adduce the sanction of Divinity, on different occasions, as a proof. That God sanctioned war in ancient times is very evident from a study of the Scriptures; but that sanction, though given in particular cases, does not imply the right of rulers to use their subjects at all times for comparatively useless and trifling causes. Wrongs, which were merely imaginary in the breasts of kings, have oftentimes stirred up whole nations and brought man in contact with his fellow-man on the field of strife. War, as a means of conquest, avowedly for the purpose of advancing civilization, but really for personal and national aggrandizement, has left its iron traces on the pages of history. We do not deny but that war has been beneficial in some cases, but they are few and far between. The controlling spirit is “ might against right.”
What cared Alexander for the rights of those whom he overthrew? Had he civilization or any other ennobling purpose in view? Had the Romans any noble purpose when they flooded the then known world with a barbarous soldiery, who cared for naught but rapine and slaughter? No, it was simply a love of military glory. Did their conquests have an enlightening influence upon those whom they conquered? Far better would it have been for the barbarous Gauls and Britons to have remained in their darkness and paganism, such as it was, than to have imbibed the falsely-supposed spirit of civilization of Rome which was introduced among them. In reading accounts of the Druids and comparing them with the corrupt and immoral Roman, we unhesitatingly decide in favor of the Druid. Men of to-day point with pride to what is termed the civilization of ancient Rome! but are they justified in so doing? Can anything that is steeped in immorality and vice excite our admiration? who can now read the accounts of the celebration of the mysteries of the Bona Dea, of the rites of Venus and of Bacchus without experiencing a feeling of horror and disgust? Rome’s greatest men were libertines and debauchees, and as such were honored.
The private lives of Casar, Antony, Pompey and Sulla will justify these statements beyond a doubt. Wherein did the greatness that is attributed to them consist ? It remains yet to be related.
' Contrast the methods employed by peace in the great endeavor to civilize and christianize the heathen world. It was not with pomp and show, and power of arms that the Christian missionaries established their religion in distant and hostile countries. Through their efforts whole systems and customs, in use from time immemorial, passed away, and in their stead appeared Christianity and civilization, walking hand in hand, and leading men from the dross of earthly power to the higher knowledge and happier bourne beyond.
Consider what takes place on the battle-field. The inventive genius of man is occupied in forming implements and missiles of destruction, lands are depopulated, homes are destroyed, and temples of religion and of art crumble away. The father arms himself against the son, and the brother against his brother; all the lowest and worst passions of men are excited, and when the cloud passes away what do we behold? The mangled corpses of thousands belonging to the defeated, and the victorious army marching away in apparent triumph, followed by the execrations of a nation and by the bitter maledictions of the widows and orphans, and the loving hearts of those whose homes they have desecrated and made desolate.
Numerous and great as are the warriors who have reached the summit of earthly glory, do they look back with joy or complacency on their labors while in the field ? Washington said, in his latter years: “Would to God that man knew no such thing as war!” Napoleon commanded more men than any other general, and although he was successful to a great degree, nevertheless, when alone and an exile on the barren rock of St. Helena, when there was naught to sing his dirge but the waves, and no hope of liberty but in the howling of the sea-winds, then did remorse overtake him, and'he bitterly repented of having been instrumental in the death of so many persons.
Besides the destruction of life and the loss of limbs, another and a very serious loss is that of property and the expenses with which countries are burdened who have been engaged in war. England’s national debt will, in all probability, never be paid, so her leading statesmen aver. America, to-day, lies groaning under a debt, which will keep her backward for years in the onward course of civilization.
How are these evils to be remedied ? The experience of nations who have tried the international congress and peace commissions, has been very satisfactory. Slavery could have been abolished and American independence secured by other means than that of madly rushing into war. Let men adopt the natural course of settling their difficulties by arbitration, and we may look forward with eagerness to the time when man shall become nobler and more perfect and nations more prosperous and happy.
120
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Sleep.
Sleep, aptly denominated by Shakspere “the ape of death,” is a soothing influence which periodically steals over us, rendering us more or less insensible to external objects, and, freeing us from the cares and toils of the busy world, imparts new vigor and prepares us to bear the trials of life and to resume its journey anew.
During life all animals, especially those of the higher classes, such as mamals and birds experience its influence, and while the functions of the external organs are suspended, the animal enjoys the sweets of calm repose.
There are two modifications of life, organic or internal, and inorganic or external. The former is common to animals and plants, the latter is peculiar to animals alone. In organic life there is, properly speaking, no sleep, no intermission of the functions, but from beginning to end, from birth till death all is continuous activity. Thus, in the case of plants, they constantly take in air and moisture by means of their cells or roots, and at the same time give off oxygen in consequence of the elaboration of these substances through the tissues of the stem and leaves.
Absorption and excretion are incessant in their operations. They constitute the life of the plant, and as such admit of no intermission during its existence. When these organs cease to act, the cessation is not temporal but permanent, it is not sleep but death. The same may be said of the internal life of animals: while the organs of external life are dormant, having no knowledge whatever of things exterior, the functions, nevertheless, incessantly go on; thus, the heart propels the blood, and notice when you will, you will always find it working. The lungs cease not to breathe, but during life continue without intermission their alternate inhalation and exhalation of air. The stomach too, as well as the other internal organs, continually performs its functions.
These various functions never grow fatigued because their actions depend not on the will but follow some natural law which they unknowingly obey. Thus respiration, circulation, digestion, secretion, and the other forces of organic life continue, irrespective of activity or repose, in the organs of external life. But not so with the organs of animal life; they have their season of activity and repose, of action and intermission. Their health and strength depend upon the regular alternate recurrence of these periods, the one of which prepares the way for the other.
Thus a season of activity fatigues the animal organs, and exhausts the powers upon which their strength and movements depend, making thereby a necessity, the recurrence of a period of repose in which those organs and powers are refreshed and replenished, and again prepared for action.
Ail we know about sleep, is simply to notice its comings and goings and the effects produced by such. We cannot enter into details in regard to its nature; we can only look at it, as it were, from a distance, nod our heads at its approach and recline beneath its soothing influence.
The wind moaning through the trees, the soft strains of music, the gentle rippling of waters, the roaring of the mighty cataract, the hum of a distant city, and particularly the mother’s sweet lullaby, all are kindly alive to its welcome approach. It has made acquaintances throughout the wide range of creation, and from its first visit to Eden’s bowers where Adam and Eve first experienced its sweet influence, and where the wakeful nightingale sang
its coming, it has continued to be the friend of nature and the dispenser of much good to men.
It visits every species of animated nature and in a season most convenient for the exigencies and habits of each. The bat, rendered blind by the light, it visits in the day, as the night is his time to labor. The prowling beasts of the forest whose waking hours are those of night, and for whose rest and safety concealment demands the light, it visits in the day. But to man, and especially to those who labor, and who, in obedience to tff^great command, earn their bread by the sweat of their brow, and whose minds and bodies are underanged and uncorrupted through excessive indulgence of appetite and passion, it comes with the shades of evening, and all night long wraps him in sweet and uninterrupted repose. Inanimate nature is also made the recipient of its kind visits, and it appreciates them as can be easily inferred from external appearances. At its approach the pale lily and the blushing rose fold their tender leaflets and droop their gentle heads in token of thankfulness and reverence. To mother earth, it comes with the autumn blasts and wintry storms, and during her season of repose, makes her forget her toils, and strengthens her to bear the burden which the existence of future seasons will make upon her vitals. For everyone, no matter what his station in life may be, it has special gifts in store. It comforts the doubtful and desponding, and during the hours of bodily rest consoles their minds with pleasing pictures of prosperity and sunshine, and leaves them in the bright morning with a cooler brain, a braver heart and a stronger arm to be up and doing with a heart for any fate.
It visits alike the palace of the king and the humble dwelling of the laborer. It loves to hover near the sick bed, to close the eyes and sooth the wearied limbs. And when disease has had its turn in tormenting the body heavenly sleep with its mantle-covers the sick .one and makes him forget his pains.	M. C.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Rumor has it that Miss Sarah McLean furnished the material for “Cape Cod Folks” and that Robert Grant then wrote the book.
—Thx Critic learns that Mr. Robert Browning was not consulted in the foundation of the Browning Society in London, and that it does not meet with his approval.
—Mr. Swinburne’s new tragedy, “Queen Mary,” the third part of the trilogy on the life and death of the Scottish Queen, is in the press, and will be published in about a month.
—The archaeological work to be called “Salaminia,” which has been announced as in preparation by Gen. di Cesnola, is not by him, but by a younger brother, Maj. A. Palma di Cesnola.
—“ La Favorita,” is the name of a pet cat belonging to a maiden lady, residing on the heights of Brooklyn. It goes out on the roof at.night, and sings “ Spirito Gentil,” winding up with “ a mio, a mio.” It’s an Italian cat.—Ex.
—Chicago’s fair daughters have taken the aesthetic nonsense deeply to heart. One recently inquired for furniture-covering—“Something with .a distinct individuality—but—rather subdued and—pensive—with a—dash of pathos and faint suggestion of infinite tenderness.”
—A culinary novelty: Young ladies of the best families have deserted the old idea of refinement, and are about to put that quality on a new basis. Instead of sitting around and embroidering tidies and painting pondlilies on a shingle, they now devote themselves to the culinary art. An uptown young lady has recently roasted
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
121
three loaves of cake with eminent success, the only difficulty being that she used salt instead of sugar for the groundwork. Perseverance, however, will eventually correct little mistakes like that.—New Haven, Register.
—While everything is going smoothly with us and good luck insists on having her own way in spite of our blunders, we put the comma in the right place when we quote the passage—
There’s a divinity that shapes our ends, Rough hew them how we will.
But when everything goes wrong and ill luck intrudes itself in spite of our best endeavors, we still quote the passage, but with the comma in the wrong place—
There’s a divinity that shapes our ends Rough, hew them how we will.—Ex.
—Mr. Thorvald Solberg writes to the Library Journal that he hopes to publish his Bibliography of the Pre-Columbian Discovery of America by the Norsemen,” during the coming winter. He has been collecting his list for ten years past, and has • titles of books and articles in twelve different languages. Mr. Watson’s general bibliography of pre-Columbian discovery, recently printed, offered a rather remarkable list, but Mr. Solberg says his list relating to the Norse discovery alone contains twice as many titles as Mr. Watson’s. He sought to join forces with the latter, but he was too late, since_Mr. Watson’s bibliography was already in press.
—Gen. Rosecrans says it is a falsehood that General Garfield as chief of staff wrote all his Chickamauga articles for him except the unluckily-worded one that opened the fatal gap in the Union lines. All his staff officers know, he says, that he wrote or dictated all important orders himself; at Chickamauga he dictated fifty to General Garfield ; and the opening of the fatal gap was due to General Wood’s blunder and not to the wording of the order. “From this distant shore,” says the General, “ where I am laboring to get my daily bread, for lack of time and strength I am unable to make head against all the historic falsehoods to which I have alluded. But as they are passing into the popular history and current literature of a new generation, misleading an innocent and trusting public, in this case I am disposed to appeal to the Eastern press generously to give circulation to the foregoing corrections, and if it pleases to aid in giving the public a rest on their future circulation.”—Boston Baily Transcript.
—We clip the following from the Omaha Republican's review of a discourse of Rev. Father Damen, S. J., in that city; the item in regard to the Bible is worthy of special notice:
“ He read from Matth. v. in reference to the Church being subject to persecution, calumny, etc., even as her Divine Founder was. He then went over the bitter persecutions of the Church by the pagan Romans, and the high priests of the synagogue for the first three hundred years of our current era, when the Christians had to worship in caves, catacombs, and old quarry excavations. He said it is estimated that at least 20,000.000 of Christians suffered martyrdom for the faith in those three hundred years, until the Lord converted Constantine the Great, and the Christian Church enjoyed a breathing spell of peace and could worship God and Christ the Saviour in the full light of day. He said, for 1800 years the Church has been persecuted and without going into intermediary history, she is bitterly persecuted to-day in Russia, Germany, France, Italy and all Europe. Even in the United States, where religious liberty is the watchword and where man is allowed to worship as he lists, the Catholic Church is calumniated, reviled and to a great extent held up to scorn. He said Catholics are condemned for believing and practising what they never did, and never intended to believe or practise. The charges made against the Church originated in the imaginative brain of her prejudiced enemies, and are scattered abroad as her errors. Chargel. ‘The Catholics are not allowed to read the Bible.’ This he branded as a malicious slander, that can be refuted by reference to the approbation of Pope Pius VI., on the fly-leaf of every Bible, and the fact that a full and complete Bible, not an emasculated one like the revised version, can be had for §1.25. That the Catholic Church has always been the friend and custodian of the Bible; and that monks and nuns for several centuries multiplied copies of the Bible before the art of printing was invented and perfected; that had it not been for the Catholic Church, Protestants to-day would have no Bible to cavil over; that were the Church opposed to or afraid of the Bible she could have destroyed it centuries before Luther commenced his reformation. The Bible, said he, is the bulwark and fortification of the Catholic Church.
By it she proves all her doctrines and practices and refutes all heresies. It is the stronghold of the Church; and by it she confounds heretics, schismatics and infidels. Charge 2. ‘The Roman Catholic Church is opposed to education.’ This he replied to by referring to the colleges, universities and schools of Europe; to Oxford, the pride of England, stolen from the Catholic founders, and to the numerous colleges universities, seminaries academies and parochiol schools scattered over the United States. Charge 3. ‘The Inquisition’ wps not an ecclesias- ' tical but a governmental tribunal and torture, instituted by Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain against the rebellious Moors and Jews who disaffected the" country. Several Popes remonstrated with Spain on the cruelty of the Inquisition, and one Pope threatened to excommunicate her if she didn’t relax the rigor of that tribunal. All the priests had to do with it was to decide questions of orthodoxy or heterodoxy. Charged. ‘Catholics worship graven images.’ This he scouted on the idea that we all prize the pictures and statues of our friends on earth, and more should we those in heaven. He averred that Catholics worship none but God the Saviour; but they honor the saints; and in an especial manner the Qneen of all saints, the Mother of Jesus, whom a divine ambassador saluted as ‘full of grace’ and ‘most highly favored of God.’ Chargeo. ‘Catholics are superstitious.’ The Catholic Church looks on the indulgence in superstitious practices as a grievous sin. He here explained the symbolism of the lights, and the ornamentation of the Catholic Church, deemed superstitious bynon-Catholics.”
Scientific Notes.
—The late Baron Haymerle, the Austrian premier, spoke ten languages perfectly.
—A snail’s head may be cut off, and in a certain time another head will be formed. At least so says Spallanzani.
—It is a comfort to know from such high authority as the distinguished Dr. Abernethy that we need not eat more than one-fourth as much as we all do. With that fact kept in mind, it is possible to smile in the face of advancing prices for food.
—In a note to the Vienna Academy of Sciences, Dr. Margules calls attention to the beautiful figures that are produced in glycerine when the liquid is moved in a regular way by the rotation of a disk in contact with it. The figures are due to the water in the glycerine.
—A German chemist has made an analysis of the salts that are dissolved in the water of the Dead Sea. The result leaves scarcely a doubt in his mind that this lake, traversed as it is by the Jordan, and fed chiefly by it, owes its peculiar water to a bed of rock salt, and in the first instance to the upper layers, which contain much magnesia.
—Dr. de Piongeon, of Mexico, has made some interesting excavations in the ruins of Uxmal, near Merida, Yucatan. He has found a well-preserved bust of the god Cay, with an inscription in the Mayo language stating that the god is Isaa, i. e., necessary revealer, or Messiah. Near the bust was an altar with cabalistical signs. Other articles in the ruins bear a striking resemblance to those discovered at Heliopolis and Memphis. He has placed dynamite cartridges round the ruins in order to prevent the Indians from coming to them.
—One of the queerest descriptions of a comet on record is that given by Theophanes, the historian of Peter the Great. Speaking of a comet seen in the year 813, he says: “It resembled two moons joined together; they separated, and having taken different forms, at length appeared like a man without a head.” Ambroise Pare, who has been called the Father of Modern Surgery, and whose skill and knowledge were so highly esteemed that he was surgeon for four kings of France in succession, has left a most remarkable account of a comet seen in 1528, when he was about twenty years of age: “ This comet was so horrible and dreadful that it caused such great terror to the people that they died, some with fear, others with illness. It appeared to be of immense length, and of blood-color; at its head was seen the figure of a curved arm, holding a large sword in the hand, as if it wished to strike. At the point of the sword there were three stars, and on either side were seen a great number of hatchets, knives and swords covered with blood, among which were numerous hideous human faces with bristling beards and hair.”
—No part of the human body is so much neglected as
122
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the feet. Possibly not over ten in each hundred, of even the educated classes, properly cleanse the feet and nails. Bathe the feet every night and morning, with a little borax in the water. Ammonia and bay rum, though cleansing, have a tendency to dry the skin and close the pores. Frequent change of hosiery is more necessary than changing any other part of the clothing. After physical exercise renovate the stockings, bathe the feet and anoint them, the ankles and the calves of the legs, with healing oil or salve. Exchange the socks worn through the day for clean ones, at early evening, and the brain will quickly respond to the restoring influence. It would be much better to neglect to wash the face an entire month than neglect to bathe the feet a single day. Pare the nails once a week, and, only after softening by bathing, remove the quick, which gathers under the nail, ever third day before it purifies. Never use cheap or highly-perfumed soap, as it has a tendency to dry and parch the skin, and so close the pores as to prove very injurious to health. Castile, olive oil and other vegetable oil soaps are the best for the flesh.—Ex.
—A novelty in canal-boats lies in Charles River, near the foc-t of Chestnut street. It is called a pneumatic canal boat, and was built at Wiscasset, Me., as devised by the owner, R. H. Tucker, of Boston, who claims to hold patents for its design in England and the United States. The specimen shown is designed to be used on canals without injuring the banks. It is a simple structure, measuring sixty-two feet long, twenty feet wide, three feet in depth, and draws seventeen inches of water. It is driven entirely by air, Root’s blower, No. 4, being used, the latter operated by an eight horse-power engine. The air is forced down a central shaft to the bottom, where it is deflected, and, being confined between keels, passes backward and upward, escaping at the stern through an orifice nineteen feet wide, so as to form a sort of air-wedge between the boat and the surface of the water. The force with which the air strikes the water is what propels it. The boat has a speed of four miles an hour, but requires a thirty-five horse-power engine to develop its full capabilities. The patentee claims a great advantage in doing away with the heavy machinery of screws and side-wheels, and believes that the contrivance gives full results in proportion to the power employed. It is also contrived for backing and steering by air propulsion.—Ex.
College Gossip.
—The Harvards defeated the Ottawa foot-ball team on Holmes field by a score of seven goals and one touchdown for Harvard, to one touchdown for Ottawa.
—Bates College, in Maine, had $100,000 left to it on condition that an additional $100,000 would be raised. The additional was not forthcoming, and now Bates loses the original bequest.
—James Garfield is again quite sick at Williams College with malaria. It is feared that it will be impossible for him to remain at Williamstown. He has been unwell since the beginning of his college course.—Boston Transcript.
—The will of the late Colonel E. B. Morgan was admitted to probate Saturday at Auburn, N. Y. Among the public bequests is one of $100,000 to Wells College, Aurora, N. Y., in addition to $100,000 already given to form a Morgan fund for the college.
—A new medical college is shortly to be established in Baltimore, by several medical gentlemen of that city. The new college will be distinguished for several new features, among others being the rule that only believers in the Christian religion can become members of the faculty.
—The youth that parts his hair at the equator, sucks the head of a rattan cane, squints with dreamy-looking eyes throng h airy glasses, wears No. 5 boots on No. 6 feet, sports a double-breasted watch-chain to which is anchored a $4 watch, wears a horse’s hoof scarf-pin and sporting-dog studs and says, “ deuced,” “ aw, yes, demme,” and Don’t you fail to remember it,” has a soft thing in this world. He wears it in his hat, just beneath the unusually thick skull.
—Mr. Timothy F. Driscoll is the first deaf mute who has ever entered Columbia College. He is fitting himself to become a civil engineer. He is a graduate of the Institution for Deaf Mutes, in Lexington avenue, New York, ] where he spent seven years. He can hold conversation ] with any one who will speak slowly and distinctly by ' watching the motion of the lips. He appears to be a young man of energy and pluck, and proposes to pay his own way through college. May he prosper and succeed.
—At the beginning of the term, in September, two Indian youths arrived at St. Meinrad’s College, this State, from Standing Rock, Dakota Territory, to be educated. Their names are Finton Nontochna (Beargrowl), aged 19, and Giles Tapetula, aged 17. The former has many relatives who hold high positions among the different tribes of the Dakotas, his brother-in-law, John Grass, being chief of the Blackfeet some miles south of Standing Rock. They will remain at the college till they are well acquainted with the English language and then return to act as teachers.
In a recent article, Col. T. W. Higginson said that in a conversation with Henry F. Durant, the founder of Wellesley College, and a brilliant member of the legal profession himself, Mr. Durant said: “ Law is the most narrowing and the most degrading of all professions. All human law is a system of fossilized injustice, and the habitual study of it only demoralizes.” This may be true as to some practitioners. Two gentlemen were once discussing this very question, and one, a lawyer, said, "Well, you must admit the study of law sharpens the mind.” “ Yes,” replied the other, “ as you sharpen the blade of a knife, by narrowing it.”
—At the second regular meeting of the St. Patrick’s Literary and Debating Society of the Sacred Heart College, held on Saturday, October 22d, T. E. Cox delivered a fine address on the life and character of our late President ; D. O’Keeffe read a well-written essay on the life of “ Socrates,” and Henry Brooks entertained the members with readings from some of our favorite authors. The society is in a most prosperous condition at present, and the interest taken in its welfare, both by the faculty and students, predicts for it a brilliant career. The members are now preparing for a debate, which is to take place soon, and from the interest which the disputants on both sides seem to take in it, promises to be a success. We are pleased to note the prosperity of our Watertown friends.
Exchanges,
—The Catholic Union, of Buffalo, of which the gifted poet-priest, Rev. Father Cronin, is the editor, is now issued under the title of The Catholic Union and Times, the former paper having taken The Catholic Times, of Rochester, into partnership. It is reasonably hoped that the joint stock concern resulting from the union will be productive of greater benefit both to subscribers and publishers. In Union there is strength. Long live the Union !
—Among the late visitors to our Sanctum are The Princetonian, whose editors seem to have been determined to push the paper to a higher level than that of last year, and have succeeded; The Concordiensis, Union College, changed in size and appearance, and now issued in a neat, cover;, the spirit of Concordiensis is decidedly active, and it is characterized by purity of tone. The Virginia University Magazine, The Vassar Miscellany, The Sunbeam (Whitby’s Ontario), The College Journal, (Milton, Wis.), and The Student Lebanon, (Tenn.), are on our desk, but we have been so pleasantly engaged with “Half Hours with Modern Philosophers” (Catholic Shield, Ottawa, Canada.), that we have had only time to glance at the Exchange notes. The last number of The Niagara Index pleases us the best of any that we have seen in a long time. The new exchange editor shows more discretion than his predecessor, and the paper promises to be, or rather to continue, a not altogether unworthy representative of the excellent institution from which it emanates.
—The Williams Athenceum for October the 23d is, we
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
123

think, a particularly bright and interesting number of a college paper that is always up to a high mark of excel-ence. The editorial matter is strong, practical and therefore effective.,- that, particularly, which condemns the barbarous customs of “ rushing” and “hazing ”(customs, thank God, with which Catholic Colleges are altogether unacquainted) is worthy of commendation. The Athen team's exchange editor is a man of no ordinary discernment and ability. His hit at the “ light fits.” which have of late taken up so much space in college papers will, we hope, prove effective. He says: “In the mania for light lits. which is now turning the heads of students, everywhere, there is more senseless, flat, insipid stuff published every week, than any editor of ordinary taste would tolerate, were not his eyes blinded by this lamentable craze for frothy literature. We sincerely hope that the days of such trash are numbered, and that College taste will soon come to recognize that an unsuccessful attempt at light and offhand productions is Tar less readable, and a great deal more disgusting than the heaviest prize essay that ever weighted down the columns of any paper.” The “light lit. ” craze has gone too far; the sooner the blue glass or some other remedy is brought to bear upon its advocates the better it will be for solid studies and sound literature.
—The Student's Journal, devoted to Phonography, Music, Hygiene, Philology, Bibliography, etc., is the title of a neat 16 page quarto monthly, published by Andrew J. Graham, 744 Broadway, New York, at $2a year. It is now in its tenth volume. The number before us—the second that we have received—is taken up chiefly with phonographic matters and a sketch of the life of the late President Garfield. The leading matter, “The Reporter’s List,” is a commentary on ten small pages of brief reporting notes from a forth-coming work of Mr. Graham’s, which will be found useful not only to students and writers of the Pitman system as modified by the author of “The Reporter’s List,” but also, perhaps, by writers of the original system of Isaac Pitman and the various modifications which now have an extensive following in the United States. Two pages of “The Lady of the Lake” are given in phonographic characters, with key in ordinary print. A redeeming feature of this number of the Journal is the absence of such extravagant phrasing as was given in the previous one. It stands to reason that the gain of time in writing half a dozen or more words thrown together without a dividing space is more than counterbalanced by the difficulty of reading the words after they are written.
—When speaking of the response of the K. M. 1. News to our criticism of its articles commending secret societies in College, we took it to task for partial quotations, and for not giving our brief notice in full, as other exchanges did. The editor of the News acknowledges the justice of our complaint, for he this week gives our original criticism, his reply, and our rejoinder. This is well. The remarks appended, however—although nearly a column and a half in extent—do not strengthen his position in the least, and - would call for no notice on our part were it not that he gives us credit for retractions that we had not made. We have not withdrawn a single assertion or word of what we - had at first written; as we wrote it, so it stands, word for word, and we stand by it. If the editor of the Kentucky Military Institute News will do us the justice to publish this in his paper, to show the fallacy of his accusation of retractation on our part, he will do us a favor. He speaks of having castigated us: probably the editor of the News is somewhat poetic in temperament and delights in the pleasures of the imagination—in this way fighting ' great battles against terrific odds, whipping them right and left, putting them to the rout, and then obtaining the honors of an ancient Roman triumph from his admiring countrymen ! If so, we wish him all possible pleasure in his imaginary feats, but we give him a friendly caution to look well to his basket of eggs when he jumps for joy or he will miss the hand of the cadi’s daughter. When we were a little fellow, just out of bibs, we used to indulge in building chateaux en Espagne, but the dry realities of life have of late so taken possession of us that we have not got a moment to spare for mooning propensities. We are surprised, therefore, that such a paternal man as the editor of the K. M, I. News would have us believe him to be should ,at his
time of life, indulge in castle-building. If he has really ‘‘castigated” somebody we can assure him it isn’t naif anybody received a castigation it was surely the wrong fellow. The editor of the K. M. L News was so excited that he could not tell the difference. If college secret societies are worthy championing, it is a pity they had not a better man than the editor of the News to do the work for them. His Apology has done them more harm than good, and the more he lucubrates the worse, if anything does their case appear. If the President and Faculty of Purdue University wish a speedy verdict in their favor in the lawsuit between the secret societies and themselves, we would advise them to have the K M. L’s Apology read to the jury. Note the following as a samplic of his logic:
“ When the individual becomes by the oath a part of the authority administering the oath, he cannot become a slave except an oath of eternal fealty to principle and honor characterizes the slave. In college secret fraternities’ it is not usually an oath to any authority, but an obligation to principle—to certain principles as eternal as the foundations of the eternal throne of Jehovah.”
“ Certain principles eternal as the foundations of the eternal throne of Jehovah ” sounds very fine, it is grandiloquent, but we doubt very much, even if all the light at K M. 1. were centred upon it, if the editor knew exactly whereof he was writing when he penned the period, and we fear also that he would fruitlessly spend the rest of his days in trying to make sense of it. Then, again, note the relative bearing of this clause “ when the individual becomes by the oath A PART OF THE AUTHORITY ADMDliSTERING THE OATH ” and this, “ In college secret fraternities it is not ueuallly an oath to any authority but an obligation to principle,” etc. We again put the question: Does the K M. I. editor know of any benefit accruing from secret fraternities in college that could not as well be had in open societies? The results of the A.-Jf.-7.-chal discussion of the rasion d'etre of societies in college is decidedly unfavorable to their existence, and the sooner they are abolished, and “ cane-rushing ” and “ fagging ” with them, the better it will be for all concerned. No matter how far the editor of the Kentucky Military Institute News may dissemble, no matter how much he may cloak his real views, he must feel at heart that they are an unsound excrescence or he would have written better of them- We have mentioned the coming trial in the law courts between the secret societies of the Indiana State University and the President and Faculty; perhaps the K. M. I. editor will point to it as one of the “beneficial” influences of such societies? Here is another item which we find in The Chicago Tribune of Sunday last, under the heading “Savage Rites at Harvard ”:
“In one of the Sophomore societies the initiatory proceedings, which continue during several days, wind up with the branding of the victim on the arm in four places with a red-hot iron. This custom has been in vogue for some time, and it is said that many students whose arms have been thus disfigured, instead of being ashamed of their folly, actually take pride in showing the scars on all possible occasions. The branding is no slight affair, the students sometimes fainting under the infliction. We presume that this matter must be in some way outside of the province of the authorities of the college, else it would have been stopped long ago. We understand that the son of one of the highest officials of the college has already entered upon his initiatory exercises. Certainly the college officers can instruct the students that such methods of self-torture by way of showing fortitude and devotion are the disgrace of savage tribes, and that giving up the crucifying of the flesh has been one of the steps in the march of civilization.”
Can the K. M. 1. editor, or anybody else, inform us what relation such “ Savage Rites ” (Chicago Tribune) can have to “ certain principles as eternal as the foundations of the eternal throne of Jehovah,” or in what manner they can improve the physical or moral condition of “ a free-born American citizen who owes no fealty other than to his God, his country, his family and to himself?” The Boston Transcript, which in Massachusetts and elsewhere is relied upon as a first-class authority in the newspaper line, says such rites “ are the disgrace of savage tribes,"—is the K. M. 1. man prepared to give the Transcript the lie direct, and to continue his bombastic twaddle about thebene-gcial influence of secret societies in college?
124
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, November 5, 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	’
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take-it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, SI.50 per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—We understand that Prof. Gregori will shortly begin a series of paintings on the walls of the main corridor of the University building, depicting some of the most notable scenes in the life of America’s great discoverer. The series will begin with a view of Columbus at the Spanish Court, and continue through till his return in chains.
—We are glad to announce to our readers the return of Prof. Luigi Gregori. He has taken up a permanent residence here. Prof. Gregori is making up a programme, which, when completed, will contain a series of studies to be thoroughly mastered by art students in three years. The idea is to be commended, and it is to be hoped that such a favorable opportunity of acquiring a course of thorough instruction will not be allowed to pass unheeded.
Music and painting have ever been among the choicest treasured arts on which holy Church has kept an ever-watchful eye, and over which she has extended a guarding and protecting hand; and we are pleased to note that among all the colleges of our country Notre Dame takes precedence in the love of Art and in the ability of her teachers in its various branches.
—As a rule, American’colleges and universities do not cherish or encourage the fine arts, such as music, drawing, etc. Other studies have become so numerous and com
plicated that music, painting, sculpture, and the like, are no longer taught, or even thought of in our American colleges; and in this our day, it has become the fashion for all persons disposed to a study of the fine arts to seek instruction at the hands of a private tutor, or in what is now termed a College or Conservatory of Art, Music, etc. As advocates of a thorough, comprehensive and condensed system of teaching, we feel a pride at the course pursued in this matter by numerous Catholic colleges and academies, and only wish that the feeling and action were more universal, and that the entire training of youth, from the start to the finish, might be under the same guidance and control as that under which it began. We believe it would be for the benefit of all concerned.
—The British land laws are the worst in the world. As regards the science of social economy, England is still in the semi-barbaric state of the feudal ages. France, Germany, and other parts of Europe long ago relieved the shoulders of their people of the incubus of the feudal laws of entail, etc.; England still holds on to. the old feudal customs. A landed proprietor in Great Britain cannot, in an emergency, sell a portion of his estate in order to replenish his exchequer; the estate must be passed to his successor the same in extent as he received it. ■ If the landed proprietor needs money, his only resource is to squeeze it out of his tenantry. The more extravagant he may be, the harder must the agents squeeze the unfortunate tenantry. The Irish Land League, however, has put the landlords to such a severe test that social scientists begin to feel the necessity for a change of the land laws. As formerly Ireland under the leadership of O’Connell wrung the Emancipation Act frdm the British Government, and thereby obtained for the Catholics of England Scotland and Wales, as well as for her own children, the right to worship God according to the dictates of their conscience.
—We find the following item in the Dexter, (Mich.) Leader-.
“Affairs in Ireland are quieting down ; Gladstone’s suppression policy of the Land Leaguers seems to be working well. Since the arrest of the leaders various things have come to light to show that they were not honest to the people whom they professed to serve, but while professedly working for them, were in fact siding with the Government. And having had time to think, the people have concluded that it is worth while to give the new land bill a trial. A dispatch from London says: Rev. Wm. Fitzgerald, D. D., Catholic Bishop, of .Ross, has issued a letter in condemnation of the ‘no rent’ manifesto of the Land League, in which he says the manifesto excited widespread dismay among the best friends of the Irish people.”
We have read a little on the Irish Land question lately, and through courtesy on the part of some one abroad receive several Irish exchanges; we can therefore assure our friend of the Leader that the story about the dishonesty of the Irish leaders is what the great Dominican orator, Rev. Father Burke, terms “ a thumping British lie.” The British Government, in keeping with its tyrannical measures, has a set of liars spread at home and abroad to do its dirty work, and, strange to say, they find a lot of gullible Americans (?) ready to swallow their lies. We do not allude to the editor of the Leader in this last remark. When it is matter of history that more than half the people
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
125
of the Colonies were Tory sympathizers, and hoped to see Washington’s army overthrown, and John Hancock, Samuel Adams, and the rest, strung up to the nearest tree, it is not surprising that some of their descendants to-day sympathize with the British tyrant against the fellow-country men of Generals Sullivan, Hand, Knox, Wayne, Morgan, Stark, Ewing, Irvine, McDonough, Montgomery, Pickens, Moylan (and Moylan’s five brothers, all brothers to the Bishop of Cork), Commodores Barry and Stewart, and a thousand other patriotic Irish-American revolutionists. Shame upon the American—if he can be called an American—who today is ingrate and mean enough to sympathize with the British tyrant and propgaate British lies. It is a notorious fact that James Gordon Bennett of the N. Y. Herald does it, and honest Americans should therefore not be gulled by his lying and venomous utterances. In view of the late Yorktown celebration we may again refer to this subject.
College Life in the Sixteenth Century.
A passage from the Manuscript Memoirs of Henry de Mesmes, gives a pleasant picture of college life in the sixteenth century, and may be taken as an example of the sort of labor imposed on a law student. “ My father,” he says, “gave me for a tutor John Maludan Limoges, a pupil of the learned Durat, to preside over my early years, till I should be old enough to govern myself, with him and my brother, John James de Mesmes, I was sent to the college of Burgundy, and was put into the third class; I afterwards spent almost a year in the first. My father said he had two motives in sending me to the college: the one was the cheerful and innocent conversation of the boys, the other was the school discipline, by which he trusted we should be weaned from the over-fondness that had been shown us at home, and purified, as it were, in fresh water. Those eighteen months I passed at college were of great service to me. I learned to recite, to dispute, and to speak in public; and I became acquainted with several excellent men, many of whom are still living. I learned, moreover, the frugality of the scholar’s life, and how to portion out my day to advantage, so that by the time I left I had repeated in public abundance of Latin, and two thousand Greek verses, which I had written after the fashion of boys of my age, and I could repeat Homer from one end to the other. I was thus well received by the chief men of my time, to some of whom my tutor introduced me. In 1545, I was sent to Toulouse with my tutor and brother, to study law under an old grey-haired professor, who had travelled half over the world. There we remained for three years, studying severely, and under such strict rules as I fancy few persons now-a-days would care to comply with. We rose at four, and having said . our prayers, went to lectures at five, with our great books under our arms, and our ink-horns and candlesticks in our hands. We attended all the lectures until ten o’clock» without intermission, we then went to dinner, after having hastily collated during half an hour what our master had written down. After dinner, by way of diversion, we read Sophocles, or Aristophanes, or Euripides, and sometimes Demosthenes, Tully, Virgil, and Horace. At one, we were at our studies again, returning home at five to repeat and turn to the places quoted in our books, till past six, then game supper, after which, we read some Greek or Latin
author. On feast days we heard Mass and Vespers, and the rest of the day we were allowed a little music and walking; sometimes we went to see our friends, who invited us much oftener than we were permitted to go. The rest of the day we spent in reading, and we generally had with us some learned men of this time.”
Personal.
—Mrs. Ruger, of Lafayette, was here visiting her son.
—G. Hagan, who received the Commercial Medal for ’81, is farming near St. Augustine, Ill.
—Mrs. Murdock, of Lafayette, was at the College this week, visiting her sons, Charley and Sam.
—J. J. Molloy, ’89, of Germantown, Ky., is attending school at Lexington University, in that State.
—Frank McPhelan, of Chicago, paid a visit to his cousin, John Kelly, of the Junior department.
—Mr. Jas. A. O’Reilly, A. M., of ’79, was here on a visit last week. Mr. O’Reillv has for some years been one of the leading lawyers of Reading, Pa., and holds a position in one of the great Pennsylvania railroad corporations.
—We learn from the Peoria Daily Freeman that Edward Spellman, of ’79, is President of the Irish-American Land League in that city. He is enlisted in a good cause —the cause of suffering humanity—and we wish him and his confreres success.
—Rev. M. M. Hallinan, D.D., for some years a professor at Notre Dame, is now located at Wabash, Indiana, where, as elsewhere, he is very popular. There is in the last issue of the Lafayette Sunday Times a paragraph concerning Dr. Hallinan that is untrue, and has no foundation in fact.
—From cards just received we learn that Robert W. Staley, A. B., ’74., has been united in matrimonial bonds to Miss Mattie E. Henley, of Pleasant Hill, Mo. They are now on a wedding tour, but will be at home after Monday, Nov. 7tb. Mr. and Mrs. Staley reside at 2817 Gamble Street, St. Louis, Mo. We wish them a life of unclouded prosperity.
—We learn from an editorial note in the Boston Evening Star, that our old friend, Eliot Ryder, is at “The Hub,’ and busy. The Star says;
“Mr. Eliot Ryder, a literary gentleman of wide repute and varied talent (now on the editorial staff of the Star), is furnishing a serial story for the Boston Times. Whatever •comes from the pen of Mr. Ryder is sure to be bright and readable.”
—The Peoria Daily Journal, speaking of Mr. William Hoynes, of’68, mentions the fact that he is now one of the editors of the Transcript, of that city. Commenting on the proceedings at a great indignation meeting there on the arrest of Charles Stewart Parnell and the Land-League Leaders, addressed by Hon. L. W. James, Hon. M. C. Quinn and others, the Peori Daily Freeman said that Mr. Hoynes made the best speech ot the evening, and the Journal terms it “ a masterly and scholarly effort”
Local Items.
—Romeo I
—01 those chinners!
—Who stole the apples?
—Little Maud, little fraud!
—“O George, shave it off!”
—They came back too late.
—Those handballs are too light.
—“Dan, will you clean off your face? ”
—Oliver’s whistle had the desired effect.
—Mr. President, I rise to a point of order.
—We have a D. D. in the Seniors. “ Eh, Dan ? ”
—Wanted—No more stole Jalces on (Ohio’s "Big Four,”
126	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—“ Now you just come home, right away, straight off.”
—They say the “Iowa man” did it up Brown, Sunday last.
—A tragedian of no small merit has entered as a student.
—That little Maud affair turned out to be a little fraud affair.	'
—Winter at last! A driving snow-storm last Thursday forenoon.
—My dear Son: “Come home immediately!” But he did’nt go.
—And when his pa said he shouldn’t go home, poor little Maud wilted.
—It is thought that Jim is the best in the Senior department at football.
—Why does “ Fenny ” appear smaller in ranks than in any other place?
—Handball seems to be the popular game among the Seniors at present.
—The leaves are withering, falling, and the autumn winds are whistling.
—The Siamese twins, “D. D.” and G. E. C.,” are trying to raise chinners.
—Would you like to maintain your health in a perpetual state of perpetuity ?
—A great number of students go to the Academy on Sundays to visit their sisters.
—The Thespians claim to hold the most lively meetings of any Societies in the house.	‘
—The Senior whose hand was hurt on Sunday afternoon is afraid of hydrophobia.
—The Dancing Class is having some pleasant evenings, and is preparing for something immense.
—Eddie felt awfully jolly at the 0. H., on Saturday morning; I wonder if he declined Hie, Haec, Hoc?
—To-morrow, Sunday within the Octave of All Saints, Missa Parvutorum will be sung. Vespers, of a Conf., Bp.
—Prof. Edwards’ zeal in the cause of the Columbians has brought their Society to a high degree of excellence.
—The recreation grounds are comparatively quiet since the St. Edward’s day sports, consequently locals are scarce.
—Frank Grever, of last year’s “ Staff,” has a postal card in his possession on which he has written, with a pen, 1618 words.
—The Minims had quite a lively time ducking for apples on Hallow-E’en. They disposed of a barrel of apples in a short time.
—Over one hundred Juniors took their usual walk last Sunday. The remainder staid in the study-hall, poor delicate fellows!
—The Columbian Club, under the efficient presidency of Prof. Edwards, is thriving. Do your part, gentlemen, the officers are doing theirs.
—Rosey’s Menagerie is now finished. He is only waiting for the completion of the new Exhibition Hall to give us his first performance.
— A Boston man was seen running across the yard, during the progress of the same, Tuesday; he appeared to be very much excited. “ What was the matter, J. ? ”
—How about that Fire Department? is there such a thing, or is it only a myth ? Surely no other department of the College ought to be able to assemble and be controlled so quickly, yet, in case of need, could this be done ?
—An ancient Senior thus comforted one of our antediluvians the other day: “ Never mind, my friend, you’ll be young again, some of these days; yes, you’ll become an angel, bright, young, and fair, and float off skywards on your dexter ear.”
—It would be a source of gratification to many if the Infirmary pump and the dippers attached were handled with a little more care. No dipper was ever known to last over a week, and the greater part of the time there is no dipper at all. Our young friends must endeavor to be a little more careful. .
—The new Music Hall is fast approaching completion. Workmen are busily engaged in finishing the interior. When finished it will he the handsomest and most complete building of the kind in this part of the country. A full description of the building and its appointments will be given in a future number.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Thespian Society took place Oct. 22d. After a long discussion on “The Drama,” Mr. G. E. Clarke delivered a very fine speech on “The Patriotism of the American Soldiers at the Siege of Yorktown.” He was folowed by Messrs. W. B. McGor-risk, J. Solon, M. Healy, and E. C. Orrick. After recitations by several of the members, the meeting adjourned.
—The 8th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society took place Nov. 2d. Readings were given by F. Deschamp, L. Gibert, F. Fishel, J. Flynn, G. Tourtil-lotte. Declamations were given by Masters W. F. Hana-vin, E. A. Howard, H. C. Snee, D. C. Smith, A. J. Cam-pau, and J. Friedman. Masters J. C. Devine, H. L. Richmond, and P. Yrisarri appeared to advantage in vocal selections.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, was held on Sunday, Oct. 23d. Declamations were delivered by Ryan Devereux and C. M. Gordon. Compositions were read by F. I. Otis, A. J. Kelly, W. Miller, and Joseph Kelly. Songs were sung by T. J. McGrath, Ryan Devereux, and D. O’Connor. The question, “ Is Summer Better for Small Boys than Winter” ? was warmly debated by 0. McGordon, Rene Papin, Ryan Devereux, C. Melz, on the affirmative side; and by P. Campau, W. Miller, J. Chaves and L. Young, on the negative. Decided in favor of the affirmative.
—The 7th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Association was held on Thursday, Oct. 27th. The question, “Was it Right to Execute Major Andre ” ? was debated. Messrs. Tinley, Morse, Johnson, affirmatively; on the negative side, Messrs. O’Reilly, O’Farrell, and Steis. The judges rendered the decision in favor of the former. A debate for Nov. 3d, subject, “ The Advantages to be Derived from a Public Education.” Messrs. Marlett and Kindle in favor of the affirmative, and Messrs. Dever and Kinsella, in favor of the negative. Messrs. Lannan and Smith will each read a composition at the same meeting. The meetings of the Society will hereafter be held on Thursday.
—The 9th and 10th regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on Oct. the 24th and 28th. Masters W. McCarthy, C. Porter, and C. Kolars were unanimously elected members. Songs were sung by Geo. Schaefer, W. Keenan and C. C. Echlin. Declamations were delivered by Masters Gardner, Castanedo, Rhodius, C. Rose, C. Echlin, A. Browne, Heffernan, W. Keenan, C. and S. Murdock, J. Kelly and N. Nelson. E. Fishel delivered an historical essay on the first settlers in New York. Essays were read by G. Castanedo, George Rhodius, J. Fendrick, F. Grever, and J. Guthrie. Public readers for the following week are as follows: N. Nelson, C. Echlin, J. Fendrick, S. Murdock, C. F. Rose, and J. Heffernan.
—The fourth regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception^was held Sunday evening, Oct. 30th. The ten-minutes’ instruction was given by Rev. Father Hudson. C. C. Echlin read an essay on “ How to Make a Good Confession.” S. Murdock one “About Thanksgiving After Communion.” H. Porter descanted on “ How we can Help the Souls in Purgatory.” G. Rhodius gave “A Sketch of the Life of St. Edward.” The following were appointed to take part in the next regular meeting: A. Coghlin will read an essay on “What the Archconfraternity is, and the Indulgences and Privileges Gained by Being a Member.” C.Porter will speak of “ Prayer.” W. Mahon will give “ A Sketch of the Life of St. Stanislaus.” E. Fenlon and J. V. O’Donnell were unanimously elected to membership. After a few remarks by the President, the meeting adjourned.
—The 5-mile race was won by H. Noble, time, 35 minutes, 15 seconds; P. Rash, second, 35 min., 20 sec; P. Shicky, third, 85 min., 30 sec.; fourth, G. Tracey, 35 min., 35 sec.	’	J’ i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
127
—The closing sports of St. Edward’s day, postponed on account of the weather, were brought to a close on Thursday last. The following was the result: 100 yard dash, won by J. Livingston, of South Bend; H. Lannon, of Salt Lake, second; F. Wheatley, of Marysville, Ky., third. Prizes, three fine cigarette holders. The Senior 150 yard dash was won by T. Healy; H. Steis, second; T. Bourbonia, third. The best standing jump was made by E. Gallagher, of Boston, Mass., distance, 11 ft., 6 in.; F. Dever, of Ashland, Ky., was second; clearing 10 ft., 5 in. The hop, step and jump were also won by F. Dever, distance, 40 ft., 10% in. The high jump was won by Ed. Gallagher, of Boston; height, 5 ft., 4 in.;W. Thompson, of Elgin, BL; second; height, 5 ft. The high kicking proved a most exciting affair. ' After the mark rose to six feet, all competitors except Gallagher and Bolton dropped out; Gallagher finally won, reaching a height of 7 ft., 7% inches. Of all the games :	of the day, however, the football game was the most inter-
esting and most eagerly waited for. Although each inning did not last more than three-quarters of an hour, more severe playing has not been witnessed this year. Among the many who were remarked for excellent playing, we noticed among the “Reds,” Baker, Dever, Steis, and J. Browne; on the side of the “ Blues,” E. Gallagher, H. W. Morse, M. Healy, and F. Clarke. Best two out of three, won by “ Reds,” captained by E. O. Orrick, assisted by F. Dever; “Blues,” captained by F. Johnson, assisted by E.
, Gallagher. The prize was a barrel of fine large apples.
4	—Among the visitors at the University during the past
v	week, we note the following: Miss Ella Bulla, South Bend;
’	Miss Ella Kemble, La Porte, Ind.; Mrs. Asher Hathaway,
Elkhart, Ind.; Mrs. Wesley Smith, Wesley, Mich.; M.
1	, Butler, Austin, Texas; H. D. Faxon, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs.
N. B. Kahn, and Adele V. Kahn, Constantine, Mich.; Miss Julia Condon, South Bend; Rev. A. B. Oechtering, « Mishawaka, Ind.; Miss Antoinette Oechtering, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; Harold V. Hayes and wife, Chicago; Mrs. Mark S. J	Foote, Burlington, Iowa; James A. O’Reilly, Reading, Pa.;
7	Miss Laura M. Tuttle, Columbia City, Ind.; Mrs. I. T.
Lavey, Huntington, Ind.; G. C. Darling, Lansing, Mich.; Mr. W. Connors, wife and child, Wasepi, Mich.; Marion L. Carr, Chicago, Ill.; Miss Lodema Dragoo, and Cora A. Beckwith, South Bend; Misses Nellie and Maggie Dor-j	sey, Van Buren, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Ryan, D. West,
I	Master Alvin R. and Miss Helen West, Chicago, Ill.;
j Mrs. J. P. Devereux and son, St. Louis, Mo.; Miss Carrie I ‘ L. Reed, South Bend; Mr. Curt. Sackett, Albion, Mich.; •	Mrs. W. H.	Oren and Mrs. G. W. Baker,	South Bend,
‘	Ind.; Miss Maggie Oren, Decatur, Ill.; J.	H. Orchard,
“	Lima, O.; A.	J. Burrough, South Chicago;	S. Walworth,
|	South Bend;	Mrs. Louisa Jones, Wakley,	Mich.; Mrs.
j	Mary Hall, Three Rivers, Mich.; Mrs. E. H. Rupel, Misses
;	Clara and Hattie Rupel, and Miss Emily Overacker of
'	South Bend; H. B. Keeler (Class of ’69), and wife, Topeka,
Kan.; Moses Adler, South Bend; A. Heckler, Indiana-j	polis, Ind.; John Wagener, South Bend; Mrs. J. Moore,
!	Lakeville, Ind.; Mrs. Anna Bently, Mrs. Melinda Sinder,
South Bend; Ed. West, Wellington, Ohio; Thos. J. Fos-_ ter, Edwardsburg, Mich.; Margaret E. Montgomery, Williamsport, Pa.; Mr. D. Bryson, and Mrs. V. D. Conger, Philadelphia, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Montgomery, , and Miss Salome Montgomery, Lancaster, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. M. Montgomery, South Bend; Miss B. F. Ross, Big Prairie, Mich.; M. C. Barkley, Miss Hattie and Mallon s Heston, Lakeville, Ind.; W. Mcllvaine, South Bend; Mrs. C. M. Fisher, Three Rivers, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. F. N.
1 Churchill, Detroit, Mich.; Mrs. Joshua Tracey and son, Burlington, Iowa; Miss Clara Livingston and Miss Mamie Gray, South Bend; Mrs.Alfred Cox, Kalamazoo;
I	Mrs. C. Gaskill, South Bend; Miss Nellie E. Eberhart,
' and Mr. Chas. A. Drapier, Mishawaka; Emma A. Erwin l	and J. C. Eberhart, Ligonier, Ind.; Robert Leonard, Put-
1	nam Co., O.; Mr. and Mrs. A. Kennedy, Harris Co., O.;
j	J. Austin Chapman, Wilmington, 0.; D. Corry, Marietta,
I	Wis ; Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Hynes, Walworth, 0.; Al-
1	bert Myers, R. Ormund and Ed. Ruckman, South Bend;
।	P. Ruppe, Sr., Hancock, Mich.; Hon. W. C. McMichael
I	and wife, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mrs. W. Miller, South Bend;
Mrs. B. A. Spencer, Inagrohita, la.; E. G. Clarke, Mishawaka, Ind.; Alonzo Dent, Bedford,©.; Sr. M Borden, Canandaigua, N. Y.; Rebecca Mast, South Bend.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabet-cal order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, W. Arnold, J. C. Armijo, F. W. Barron, W. H. Bailey, F. Baker, W. B. Berry, F. M. Bell, W. S. Bolton, R. Becerra, T. E. Bourbonia, J. Barry. M. T. Burns, S. G. Clements, M. J. Carroll, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, T. F. Clarke, C. Couoghanowr, W. Cleary, C. E. Cripe, G. Clarke, F. Dever, J. Drury, J. P. Delaney, D. Danahy, B. Eaton, E. J. Eager, F. Ewing, R. E. Fleming, J. Farrell, T. F. Flynn, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburn, H. A Grambling, W. W. Gray, A. J. Golonski, F. Grever, T. Healey, A Jones, A Jackson, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella, F.Kuhn, J. Kindle, A.Kuntsman, H. Letterhos, J. C. Larkin, J. E. McErlain, A Myer, W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, C. J. McDermott, J. A McIntyre, H. W. Morse, W. B. McGorrisk, W. McEniry, J. Nash.H. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, W. J. O’Connor, E. C. Orrick, J. N. Osher, E. A Otis, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, S. S. Perley, L. Proctor, F. Quinn, F. Rettig, W. E. Ruger, A P. Schindler, J. E. Schalk, W. Schofield, S. B. Schofield, J. Solon, W.. E. Smith, A. C. Schiml, H. Steis, P. Shickey, E. E. Smith, C. A Tinley, E. J. Taggart, W. M. Thompson, G. S. Tracy, I. Treon, S. B. Terry, C. B. Van Dusen, W. H. Vander-Heyden, F. Wheatley, F. Ward, J. A. Weber, F. S. Weber, A R. 'West, J. A White, J. E. Walsh, E. D. Yrisarri, J. V. Zettler, A. F. Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. A. Browne, W. F. Bacon, W. H. Barron, A W Brewster, G. B. Buchanan, A. J. Campau, J. M. Courtney, W. L. Coghlin, W. J. Cavanaugh, J. L. Castillo, A. M. Chirhart, J. A. Devine, G. Deschamp, M. Dolan, H. Devitt, C. Devoto, J. Drendel, C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, E. Fenlon, E. Fischel, F. Fischel, J. Flynn, W. E. Freyermuth, J. H. Fendrick, R. French, F. C. Felix, J. Friedman, M. L. Foote, H. G. Foote, M. S. Gooley, E. B. Gerlach, J. W. Guthrie, P. G. Hoffman, H. M. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, T. J. Hurley, G. J. Haslam, W. F. Hanavin, J. Halligan, W. E. Jeannot, W. Johnson, J. Jones, C. Kolars, O. Kempf, J. Kahman, W. Keenan, F.Kengel, 8. Katz, S. Lipman, T. C. Lund, J. Livingston, O. L. Ludlow, J. T. McGordon, J. S. McGrath, T. E. McGrath, F. X. McPhiUips, C. M. Murdock, S. T. Murdock, C. J. Messenger, M. E. Murphy, W. P. Mahon, J. T. Neeson, N. J. Nelson, J. E. Orchard, F. Orsinger, J. P. O’Donnell, J. V. O’Donnell, H. P. Porter, C. F. Porter, T. C. Ryan, S. Rosenheim, A L. Richmond, C. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, J. C. Ruppe, W. J. Ruprecht, L. Rogers, V. L Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, D. C. Smith, C. D. Saviers, G. H. Schaefer, H. G. Sells, E. J. Schmitt, D. G. Taylor, A. T. Taggart, D. Thomas, T. Williams, J W. Whelan, M. J. Wilbur, J. E?Zaehnle, C. Zeigler, A. Zekind, B. Zekind, H. A. Kitz, H. C. Snee, C. C. Warner.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. H. Dwenger, 0. P. Dillon, D. A. Piatt, E. P. Nash, D. A. O’Connor, J. A. Kelly, A. J. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, R. Papin, J. S. Chaves, L. J. Young, C. Metz, M. E. Devitt, F. L Otis, A J. Otis, C. D. Brandom, D. L. McCawley, J. F. Nester, F. P. Nester, C. S. Milburn, B. B. Powell, H. J. Ackerman, J. A. Frain, J. Norfolk, Ryan Devereux, P. Johnson, J. J. McGrath, G. V. Gibson, P. 8. Gibson, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, C. -McGordon, W. Welch, W. P. Devine, J. S. Beall, T. Ellis, J. L. Rose, C. Campau, P. E. Campau, F. 8. Whitney, E. 3. Chirhart, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, C. Quinlan, M. T. Byrne, J. Tong, L. P. Graham, A. P. Roberts, F. J. Coad, G. King, W. Welsh.
Class Honors.
COURSE OP MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL
BRANCHES.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
J. Courtney, O. Kempf, P. Yrisarri, A. Browne, W. Jeannot, F. Campau, H. Snee, W. O. Pinkstaff, T. Williams, E. Fenlon, J. Kahman, H. Hibbeler, 8. Lipmann, F. C. Lund, M. Dolan, F. Fishel, C. Porter, H. Porter, G. Tourtillotte, J. McGrath, G. Haslam, E. Orchard, A. Richmond, 8. Murdock, C. Murdock, W. Freyermuth, J. O’Donnell, E. Gerlach, W. Bacon, J. Ruppe, F. Felix, W. Ruprecht, 8. Katz, J. Halligan, L. Florman, E. Drendel, R. Becerra, A Golanski, W. Browne, J. Larkin, J. gchalk, J. Drury, C. Coughanowr, G. Clements, A. Jackson, F,
128
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Murphy, W. Johson, F. Martin, F. Paquette, F. O’Rourke, W< McEniry, L Treon, J. O’Donnell.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies/
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—E. Gerlach, J. Costello, 8. Lip-mann, S. Rosenheim, A. Coughanowr; Grammar—F. Lund, P. Yrisarri, A Treon, J. Weber, E. Bryant, F. O’Rourke, F. Paquette, G. Clements, D. Smith, 8. Lipmann, W. Freyermuth, F. Campau, S. Katz, F. Fishel. E. Orchard, J. Whelan, T. Hurley, J. Courtney, C. Zeigler, W. Barron; Geography and History— C. Devoto, J. Halligan, E.. Fenlon, J. Kahman, A. Richmond; Arithmetic—S. Katz, M. Dolan, J. Flynn, E. Orchard, I. Treon, E. Fenlon, A Richmond, A. Golonski, F. Barron, F. Farrelly, J. Warner, E. Tappan, J. McGordon, A. Brewster, W. Byrne, J. Ruppe; Penmanship----; Algebra—E. Fishel, W. Cleary, W. Johnson; Latin —; Greek------; Christian Doctrine— J. S. Courtney, W. Mahon, M. Dolon, J. O’Donnell, C. C. Echlin, D. G. Taylor, W. Jeannot, P. Hoflman, W. McCarthy, F. Farrelly, J. Neeson, M. Foote, H. Foote.
iwg $ Itiubmg
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica,” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” Monthly Papers, Edited by the Young Ladies of the Senior Department.)
Autumn Leaves.
Slowly have the rustling leaflets Changed, their pretty shades of green For the golden and the russet And brightest scarlet ever seen, Slowly have they drifted earthward, Making all seem bleak and drear, Till the snow and frost enveloped All in coat of crystal clear.
So our lives are ever changing, From the green of early years, To the faded brown and russet Caused by sorrow, sighs and tears, But a day is surely coming, And that day will soon be here, When, the light of Heaven dawning, All will be forever clear.
Our Father’s Motto.
“ Work, as if all depended on labor: Pray, as if all depended on prayer.”
As I stood on the banks of the beautiful St. Joseph River, listlessly gazing on the sunlight as it danced and sparkled on the bright waters, the rich tones of Notre Dame bells came floating on my ear, responded to by St. Mary’s silver-toned convent bell. These sounds brought before me a charming picture of these two noble institutions, and for a time I imagined myself in the realms of fancy. In this mental vision I saw in the distance, group after group of youths pass in file, each wending his way to an appointed place and seeming intent on the performance of an assigned duty. One group passed into a spacious apartment, there to Jisten to a beloved instructor, elucidating the facts of
science. A second group, more grave in appearance than the former, were seated in another apartment; ever and anon, their serious countenances assumed an earnest and far-seeing look, as though they would penetrate into unknown space and grasp the mysterious truths of that science of sciences, theology. What visions of grand results did these scenes call forth! For, who can tell ? may not some of these youths become, in the future, shining lights in the intellectual sphere, or better still, profound theologians like an Aquinas, a Bonaventure or a St. Francis ? The sweet strains of the harp recalled my fancy from this region of knowledge, and for a while it revelled in the realm of graceful arts and enchanting music, and I saw in the apartments of the stately buildings that crown the summit of the sylvan banks of the St. Joseph, young maidens clustering ’round loved teachers, drinking in the pure sciences, and acquiring the graceful accomplishments of a refined education, while in another part of the same buildings generous young souls were being trained by devoted religious for the noble work of Christian education. Then memory recalled the fact that but half a century ago the war-whoop of the Indian and the wild cry of beasts were the only sounds heard in these fair regions. Whence, then this wonderful transformation ? How did these pure fountains at which so many quench their thirst arise ? It is simply the result of a strict adherence to a favorite motto, which the revered founder of these institutions has always observed and inculcated, viz:
“ Work, as if all depended on labor: Pray, as if all depended on prayer.”
And what a glorious result! far exceeding the anticipations of the most glowing imagination. May not we, with profit, make “ Our Father’s Motto ” a household proverb, and by a faithful adherence to it, achieve noble ends? 0, what a weary world would this be without labor! what a miserable world without prayer! But mark the change when both are united: for labor, the just penance of original sin, is ennobled by prayer; and prayer is made doubly meritorious by labor. When this beautiful motto is engraven on the hearts of all who are trained in these grand temples of learning, the weeds of indolence will be eradicated, and in their place will spring forth the beautiful flowers and delicious fruits of devoted labor sanctified by constant prayer.
“ Yours Truly, H. N.”
There’s a person ubiquitious, known to all men, By the nom de plume simple, “yours truly, H. N.,” “ Human Nature’s ” his right name, now please don’t disclose This mysterious secret, save under the rose.
In describing this genius, ’tis proper to say All the pronouns are used in the Scriptural way, For “H. N.” can assume a stern masculine face, Or appear, when ’tis needful, with feminine grace. This ubiquitous genius has really two sides, When presenting us one, why the other he hides. Thus men in opinion, are ever divided, By some he’s admired, by others derided;
When we see his right side, why he’s all right, of course, So refined, so high-toned, such grand moral force!
But, alas! ifhis sinister side we should see, We pronounce him quite hateful, and all will agree That “H. N.’s” a spiteful, cantankerous creature, Without a redeeming or lovable feature.
With his right eye he looks up to heaven, and then
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
129
With his sinister eye sees the foibles of men; To a tale of true sorrow he turns the right ear, While the auricle sinister, gossip would hear; With the right hand gives alms, then he quickly extends The left hand for the praise of admiring dear friends. The right side of his face is quite gentle and meek, But t’would not be safe to smite his left cheek, For “ H. N.” would prove a cantankerous creature, And try to revolt ’gainst law, rule, and teacher. Wise prudence advises that, for peace-sake, all men Should keep on the right side, of “Yours truly, H. N.” The brain, if well balanced, is fairly divided, But the brain of “ H. N.” seems rather one-sided.
For the power to think, and the power to do, Both incline to the left, and often ’tis true, With the mischievous wrong side are apt to take part, For the sinister side possesses the heart;
And the heart is so coaxing, we cannot deny it, Our hearty good will, if yon doubt it, just try it. What shall we do with this “ H. N.” ubiquitous ? Sometimes so lovely, then almost iniquitous.
Our dear human nature! we can’t do without him, Such precious, sweet memories cluster about him! Little less than the angels, at first he was made, And the beauty once lost ’neath the apple-tree’s shade, May be surely regained, if we put “ H. N.s ” heart Under power divine, then ’twill sweetly impart, To the right side a radiance, so heavenly bright, That the sinister side seems lost to our sight;
But watch that cute “H. N-’s ” queer sinister side, It never quite dies, though it cunningly hide.
Not till holy Church chants the requiem “ amen,” At our tomb, may we trust “ Yours truly, H. N.”
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence, Misses Galen, Cavenor, Claffey, Walsh, Hanbury, Pool, Feehan, Dillon, Clark, Fox, Wall, Lancaster, Simms, Rasche, Bhickey, Fendrich, Slattery, E. Call, Chrischilles, Black, R. Fishburne, Glennon, M. Campbell, Mary Ryan, A. Price, Hen-eberry, Tanner, Beale, Donnelly, Vanderheyden, Van Patten, A. Nash, H. Nash, Bland, Thompson, Waters, Legnard, I. Wolfe, M. Wolfe, V. Reilly, Pease, Owens, McCoy, M. Casey, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Rulison, M. Price, Barlow, M. Call, E. Call, Todd, S. McGordon, N. McGordon, M. Fishburn, Coryell, Taylor, E. Hackett, Mowry, Wright, Metzger, Fenlon, Newton, Reutlinger, Flemming, Davenport, L. English, B. English, Mulligan, May H. Ryan, H. Hicks, Green, Smith, Gavan, Mulvey, Behler, Miner. 2d Tablet, Misses Wiley, French, Maude Price, McKenna, C. Campbell, Leydon, Keenan, J. Reilly, Rosing, Mary Price, Garrity, A. Hicks, Pampell.
■JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Par excellence, Misses C. Lancaster, Ginz, Semmes, Spangler, Ramsey, A. Clark, Chirhart, M. Dillon, Morgan, Robertson, O’Neil, Considine, Watrous, Coogan, Mosher, Poquette, Krick, Richmond, M. Schmidt, H. Castanado, Rigney, L. Roberson, Campau, Sawyer, Brown, Mary Otis, Martha Otis, McKennon, Lewis, Burtis, Best and King. 2d Tablet, Misses Thomman, Martin, Otero, Chaves, Mattis, Barry, and Patterson.
Class Honors.
' ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses A. Cavenor, Claffey, Galen, Hanbury, Pool, and Walsh.
1st Senior Class—Misses Clark, Dillon, Fox, Feehan, and Wiley.	„
2d Sr. Class—Misses L. Lancaster, R. Fishburne, Rasche, Simms, Wall, Fendrick, Donnelly, M. Price, Slattery, Glennon, McKenna, A. Price, Chrischilles, M. Campbell, K. Campbell, Shickey, French, E. Call, Van Patten, Beale, H. Nash, A. Nash.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Barlow, Etta Call, M. Fishburn, Keenan, Todd, K. Lancaster, Ginz, Semmes, Thompson, Waters, A. Richardson, Coryell, Legnard, M. Call, N. McGordon, Mary Price, I. Wolfe, S. McGordon, Margaret Price, Spangler, J. Reilly, M. Casey, M. Richardson, Taylor, Mowry, Ramsey, M. Wolfe, Hackett, Rosing, Pease, McCoy, Rulison, Papin, Black.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Greble, Flemming, Mulligan, Reutlinger, Ryan, M. Ducey, Metzgar, Fenlon, English, Garrity, Newton, Davenport.
2d. Prep. Class—Misses Poquette, Behler, Chirhart, Mosher. B. English, Morgan, M. Dillon, Robertson, Considine, M. Casey, Hicks, C. Ducey, Fisk, Coogan, O’Neil, Martin, Watrous, Ives.
Junior Pbep. Class—Misses Ewing, McGrath, Wilkins Hibbin, E. Papin, B. Hackett, Krick, F. Castanado.
1st Judior Class—Misses Rigney, Chaves, Coyne, H. Castanado, Haney, M. Smith, Richmond, Otero, Campau, Sawyer.
Second Jr. Class—Misses Mary Otis, Lewis, Burtis, Best, and McKennon.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
(Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,)
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic, and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition.—A]large Musical Library in French, German, English, and Italian. Semi-monthly lectures in Mnsic, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from lifejand the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Miss De La Barre, from Paris, a sculptress and artist of acknowledged superiority, has been engaged for three years as an addition to the regular corps of teachers in the School of Painting and Sculpture.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full part .ulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address	.
MOTHER SUPERIOR, -
. St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
W. W. Kimball, MANUFACTURER OF Pianos and Organs.
OFFICE AND WAREROOMS: Cor. State and Adams Streets, CHJ1CA.CJO, ILLINOIS.
Agent, S. D. ROBERSON, Old Post-Office Buildlug, nov5’81-ly	South Bend, Indiana.
130
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J^R. D. M. CALVERT, Dentist,
Office, 69 Washington St. (over Alf. Klingel’s Shoe Store,)
South Bend, Ind.
(Removed to Boston. Mass.'
SHORT-HAND
TAUGHT BY MAIL IN 12 LESSONS, FOR §1.50.
The growing interest in Phonography has created a de mand for a Periodical to teach the Art, in a series of Lessons comprehensive, detailed and thorough. The
AMERICAN SHORT-HAND WRITER,
taking the initiative, is the only Magazine in the World that teaches Phonography. A full course given every year, one complete Lesson each month, and the Exercises of all Learners
CORRECTED THROUGH THE MAIL
free of charge. Those who prefer to learn in a briefer time than one year, may join our Correspondence Class and go through an entire course in either 10 or 20 weeks.
Single copy, containing First Lesson, mailed to any address for 15 cents.
Anyone wishing to learn this fascinating and valuable science are solicited to write at once for Free Descriptive Circular.
ROWELL & HICKCOX,
409 Washington Street.	BOSTON, MASS.
Please mention the paper in which you saw this advertisement.
’	PROSPECTUS
OF
Browne’s Phonographic Monthly
AND
REPORTER’S JOURNAL, New York, FOR THE YEAR 1S81.
ORGAN OF THE REPORTING PROFESSION.
This publication is now in its sixth volume. A course of lessons is being given by the editor, which will embrace all the latest improvements of the art as adapted by reporters during the past twenty years’ reporting As all instruction books are years behind the practice of the art. and do not contain any of the new principles introduced, these lessons will be found invaluable to all students.
Fac-Simile Reporting Notus of leading stenographers will show word-forms and phrase-signs not to be found elsewhere, that will be useful as showing how little attention practical reporters pay to the expedients, devices, and contractions put down in the old instruction books and recommended by authors.
Porthaits and Skkichks will be given, which will be useful as showing what have been the struggles, trials and success of men eminent iu the profession. In this way an acquaintance will be made with these gentlemen that will be of lasting interest to old stenographers as well as to young men about to take up the art.
Besides being the only shorthand publication in America published promptly on time (the 15th of each month 1 it contains news, notices of new books, personal doings of stenographers, and communications from reporters throughout the world.
A Premium Holiday Numbeh considerably enlarged and beautifully illustrated, will be Issued in December This number will be sold separately- for $1.00. but to regular yearly subscribers. who pay the subscription price of $2 00. thisnumber will be included without extra charge. To get the benefit of this splendid offer, subscriptions should be sent m now for a year’s numbers, and $2.00 must be forwarded to pay for the same in advance. Specimen copies of a late number will be sent to those desiring to see the publication before subscribing, by simply forwarding address to the publisher with a request for the same.
D. L. SCOTT-BROWNE,
Conductor and Publisher.
23 Clinton Place, New York City.
O’Connor & Co.,
CHEMISTS AND DRTTGrGTSTS
Royal Pharmacy, PRINCE ARTHUR’S LANDING, LAKE SUPERIOR, ONTARIO, CANADA, Dealers in Amethysts, Agates, Chlorastrolites, Catseyes, Thompsonites, Native Silver, and Copper Specimens, Quartz, Dog-tooth Spar, Indian Bark Work, etc.
Persons ordering any of the above from a distance will have their orders carefully attended to.
EDWARD BUYSSE
DEALEB IN
Watches, Clocks,
JE WELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving* Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Great Short Route South, Southwest and West.
May 15,1881. Local and, Through Time Table. No. 22.
Going* North.		STATIONS.	Going* South.	
1.40 p m. r.oo “ 12.35 “ 12.14 a.m. 11.42 “ 10.49 “ 0.12 “ 9.50 “ 9.23 “ 8.50 “ 8.09 " 7.25 “ 6.25 p.m.	4.20 p.m. 3 35 “ 3.14 “ 2.53 “ 2.23 “ . 1.30 " 12.51 “ 12.30 p.m. 11.50 “ 11.18 “ 10.41 “ 9.57 “ 8.50 a.m.	Abbive	Leave -	- Michigan City, - -- - - - La Porte, - -- - - StiBwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - -- - - Plymouth, - - -- - - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - -- - -	- Peru, - - - - -	- Bunker Hill, - - -- - - Kokomo, - - - ■ - - -	- - - Tipton, - • - - - Noblesville, - - -Lv. - Indianapolis, - Ab.	9.35 a.m. 10.23 “ 10.41 “ 11.00 “ 11.35 “ 12.27 p.m. 1.0G “ 1.45 “ 2.05 “ 2.40 “ 3.16 “ 4.00 “ 5.00 »	8.„o p.m 8 55 “ 9.20 “ 9.42 » 10.21 » 11.20 p.m 11.57 “ 12.25 a.m. 12.48 \ 1.30 2.07 ‘ 2.48 ‘ 3.45 “
THE ONLY LINE Running a noon Train out of Indianapolis for CHICAGO, Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principa’ Points in the EAST.
Elegant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANAPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY.
. V. T. Mallott, Gen’l. Manager, Indianopolis.
Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.