Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturus 5 vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 12, 1878.
Number 20.
Parting. s ;	■
; i, t • *'
O’er parting hours the poet’s tuneful lyre Has often lingered, sighing sigh for sigh, With many a long-drawn pause, where joys expire, And hope scarce dares to lift the heart on high.
Now Homer sings Andromache the fair, And valiant Hector, noblest of the brave;
Or Virgil how the good JEueas bare His sire from Troy, to seek a stranger grave.
Sad were the simple hearts that first unfurled Columbus’ flag, and left their native sky;
Sad was the soul of him who ruled the world, When bonny France was passing from his eye.
Sad is the tender soul of the warrior-boy
• Whose lips are pressed on his mother’s moistened cheek, Whose eyes no more shall look on his home of joy—
Ah, grief beyond his tongue or hers to speak!
O sacred hours of parting! ye will come
Yet once unto us all, supremest grief,.	'
Supremest joy uniting, home and home,
When earth’s last pang shall meet in Heaven’s relief. _________________________________ E.
The Silver Question.
BY JOHN G. EWING.
The question of silver remonetization has for the past year engaged the attention of the country. The battle over the restoration of silver to its old position as a legal-tender for all debts, public and private, has been well fought, and the victory evidently is with the defenders of silver money. From the West and the South has come its great strength, and from the East has the opposition to remonetization arisen. Even at this late hour, when the silver dollar is evidently on" the eve of its restoration as legal-tender, we hear the cry as to what possible good such restoration might do to the nation, or what benefit it will confer. “What is meant by this ceaseless outcry from the West against the law of ’74? Can you not give us a reasonable .and an honest cause for your protest?” Let us go back and consider the causes leading to the demonetization, then let us consider the consequences of that demonetization, and We can give the reasons of the West in a better light, and as supported by right and honesty.
As our Government is constituted, and as our people are • moulded, the tyranny of a special privileged class can appear but in one phase, viz .as the tyranny of the moneyed interest of the nation unscrupulously used to its own advance
ment. The history of our national and state legislatures shows the truth of this assertion, and it also shows the evident fact that the capital of the nation is thus ofttimes arrayed against the nation’s true interests. The great Railroad grants, culminating in the Pacific Railroad and the Credit Mobilier, are but one act in the chain of unjust and anti-republican legislation. The unnecessary legislation on financial questions is another, and it is this legislation, as far as it concerns the payment of our public debt, that has raised this cry of financial reform in the West.
In 1867 and 1868, the question was agitated as to the payment of our debt, which amounted to §1,600,000,000 in what are known as the five-twenty bonds. The Government had received for these bonds greenbacks; and a large majority of the country held that the bond-holders should take the 'money which they had given when the bonds might be redeemed. They maintained what its opponents called the “ greenback swindle.” The time of the Presidential election was approaching, and the parties of the country hastened to array themselves for or against the various measures proposed to the people. As in all our national elections the controlling vote of the various sections is cast in what are known as the “ October States,” and the battle, then as now, was fought in those States. Ohio and Pennsylvania would'cast the controlling votes. Pennsylvania belonged to the belt of Eastern States, the majority of which were in favor of payment of the bonds in coin. Therefore the West, in which lay the great greenback strength, looked to Ohio as its guide. The party conventions of the State met, framed their platforms, and with them went before the people. On the greenback question they were the same in substance. The Republican platform declared “ that the Republican party pledges itself to a faithful payment of the public debt, according to the laws under which the five-twenty bonds were issued.” This pledge the managers of the party interpreted to mean payment of the bonds in greenbacks. John Sherman, the leader in Ohio, declared that the bonds, by the terms of the contract—which he himself made,—were payable in greenbacks: and Senator Morton, the great Indiana leader, stated that the payment of the bonds in coin would be robbery of the people. The Democratic State platform asserted that the party was “ opposed to any declaration by Congress that the principal of the public debt is payable in gold.” Thus both the great parties stood pledged to the payment of the debt in greenbacks. The result of the election was the choice of President Grant, and a general victory for. the Republican party. It went into power pledged to the support of the greenback doctrine, and yet the first session of the ensuing Congress saw an“ Act to strengthen the public credit,” reported by the Finance Committees of the House and Senate, which act pledged the nation to pay
306	THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the debt, principal and interest, in coin. This act was reported by Senator Sherman, supported by him, carried through the Senate and the House, signed by the President, and incorporated into the laws of the Union. The i Supreme Court had decided that the debt of the United j States could be paid in legal-tender paper money. This act compelled our people to pay the debt in coin, since it pledges the nation to such payment, and on the faith of this pledge have the bonds changed hands, but especially because they have to a large extent been funded in new issues, made payable on their face, in coin. Greenbacks were then worth but seventy cents on the dollar, so that the Act of ’69 added thirty per cent., or $500,000,000, to the public debt. This was the first step in regard to payment of our debt, and against it had the majority of the Nation protested.
The next step was the demonetization of silver, and the degradation of it, by destroying its power as a legal-tender. Great Britain and Germany are the great creditor nations of the world. Of that portion of our national debt that is held outside the nations forming them, Great Britain holds one-half, and Germany one-third. Looking over the yield of gold and silver for the twenty years preceding 1874, it was seen th t while the yield of silver had doubled, that of gold had fallen off one-half. Silver had become cheaper, and gold had become dearer. Hence if silver, the most plenteous and the cheaper metal, were demonetized, and its purchasing power destroyed, the value of gold, the scarcer and dearer metal, would increase. For, a portion of the cur-, rency being withdrawn, the remainder would necessarily increase in value. Therefore all debts payable in this coin alone would increase, and the value of the payment to be made would become greater. Germany and England discarded silver, and the same law of demonetization was sought to be enacted in our country. It was enacted. In secret and in silence was the law passed. Without discussion, without argument, without even calling of the roll. It was passed by men utterly ignorant of its effect, and by men of all parties, and of no party. Unless the law of ’74 were compared with a preceding law, its effects could not be foreseen. It limited the legal-tender of silver to sums of five dollars and under; it degraded silver in its purchasing value, and increased gold in a corresponding degree. It offered silver as the pay for the wages of the laborer, and the dollar-a-day man, and for the humble debts of the poor; and gave gold as the only tender to the wealthy and great creditors. Great Britain produces sixty per cent of the gold yield of the world; the United States, sixty per cent, of the silver yield. Our produce must cease to be money. For, striking down the legal value of the silver, which forms one-half of the coin currency of the world, a contraction equal to one-half the currency of the world occurs. It has the same effect as any other contraction; it causes shrinkage of values, and increased power of the currency, in this case gold. It deprived our nation of one-half its means of paying its debt, and hence doubled the labor requisite to pay that debt. No call was made for the enactment of the law, as might be pleaded and has been pleaded for other laws equally unjust; an evident call is now being made for its remonetization. Was it right, just, honest, or even wise to demonetize the one metal which is the great produce of our mines, and increase the value of the other, for which we must pay the nation producing it in order to return it to the same nation?
“But silver was seen to be depreciating, therefore it was
right and honest to provide for the payment of the debt in some other way.” A strange reason truly, and one of very little weight. Can it stand, when the debt may be paid in either gold or silver? If gold were to depreciate, according to this mode of reasoning we should seek some other manner of payingour debt, in order to pay it in righteousness and honesty. Were a debt contracted by an individual, payable in either wheat or corn, and wheat should increase in value, would it be honest and right to compel the debtor to pay in the dearer produce? The debt of the Union by the Act of ’69 was declared payable in coin—not in gold—and hence it is at the option of the nation to pay in either gold or silver. The creditor has seen the terms of the contract and he cannot complain of the fulfilment of it.
But the debt contracted since ’74 is payable only in gold.” Senator Matthews, in a most able effort on this subject, has most conclusively shown that the bonds issued since ’74 are payable in silver or in gold. The five, four-and-a-half, and four per cent, bonds, issued since then, all on their face declare, and the law under which they were issued asserts, that they shall be payable in coin of the standard value of July 14,1870. The coin then was gold and silver—not gold alone—and silver of 371^ grains fineness. Therefore all the debt, formed since that date as well as before, is and was payable in silver as well as in gold. To restore to the nation the power to pay in silver, for we have the right, would be an act of public justice, right, and policy. “ If you restore to the currency the silver dollar, you will rob the laborers of a sum not less than $100,00,009 daily by depreciating the value of the currency in which they are paid.” The day laborers are paid for the most part in the present debased silver fractional currency. It has but 385 and eighttenths grains to the dollar, while the dollar which it is proposed to restore has 412 and one-fourth grains—a difference of 26 and three-tenths grains in favor of the proposed dollar that will be restored.
“We are content to remonetize silver, providing that the value and coinage be regulated by law.” The value can be regulated only by increasing or decreasing the amount of pure silver contained in the coin. It is not pretended that the amount should be diminished, but it is claimed that it should be increased, so as to make the silver dollar and gold dollar of the same intrinsic worth. It is the same reasoning as before. If a debt were payable in com or wheat, and wheat should increase three times in value, and the amount of corn to be paid should be twice as great as the amount of wheat, would it be right and honest to force the debtor to pay three times the amount of corn, the cheaper produce, because forsooth wheat has gone up? Would it not be as well for him to pay in wheat under such circumstances? Again, if the amount of silver be increased or diminished, we cannot in law pay the debt in silver, for it is only payable in silver of the value of July 10,1870’, silver of 371^ grains fineness-The coinage can be regulated only by limiting the amount of silver that may be coined. But such limitation would limit the amount of silver we might pay on our debt, and would not destroy wholly the artificial value given to gold by silver demonetization. To limit the coinage would be to prevent the nation from having full advantage of the difference in price between gold and silver. The proposed limitation by the Senate seems, in the light of the reasons adduced by Senator McDonald, both unneces-. sary and frivolous. He states that the limit will be-from $2,000,000 to $4,000,000 per month, and states that this is
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
307
the full capacity of the mints. Because no more can he coined, is the coinage of more forbidden. No reason at all would have been a wiser reason, and would have shown the good sense of the Indiana Senator. The objection to free coinage has more a show of reason, that such coinage will give the individual the difference between the market value and the face value of the coin. The objection wishes to secure this profit, which would be about $5,000,000 a year to the Government, and yet it would seem to be better to allow the free coinage, for no reason urged for the free coinage of gold but applies with equal force to that of silver. And the arguments against the free and unlimited coinage of silver strike also at that of gold.
Such, then, is the law and its effects, with the objections to its repeal. The reason of the outcry of the West was unjust legislation in favor of the nation’s creditors. The West objected to payment of the bonds in coin, which payment added $500,000,000 to our debt; and that wrong cannot be righted. It objected to depriving the nation of the right to pay in its cheaper metal; and that wrong can be righted. What is demanded is restoration of the silver dollar of 371^ grains fineness to its old position of legal-tender for all debts, public as well as private, with a coinage free and unlimited as that of gold. When the law of demonetization was passed, it was claimed that it was done because silver, owing to its dearness, had dropped from circulation; now it is claimed, owing to its cheapness, that it should be kept in its present degraded position. All the West demands is that the debt be paid in the manner in which the people will feel it least, providing the faith of the nation is not thereby broken.
Shall it Ever be Thus?
A Moral Tale.
CHAPTER THE THIRD.
Ipse suas artes, sua munera, Isetus Apollo Augurium, citharamque dabat, eeleresque sagittas. ^Ineid xii, 393-4.
. Let us now return to Von Schrinckenbach, whom we left in a gloomy cell, to mourn his losses in the dark.
He was not the only occupant of the cell. Hardly had the key been turned in the lock when a musical voice sang out from the darkness:
“ O Blithe new-comer! I have heard, I hear thee and rejoice.
O cuckoo! shall I call thee bird, Or but a wandering voice ?” “I had hoped at least for privacy in my misery,” sighed Von Schrinckenbach. “How many are there of you here?”	,
“ We are but two—the others sleep Through death’s untroubled night;
We are but two—oh, let us keep
The link that binds us bright! ”	. ’
sang his invisible companion to a plaintive popular air.
“ What am I to understand! am I in the midst of living ruffians; or is this a solitude made hideous by some phantom voice?”
“ Fear not, but trust in Providence Wherever thou mayest be! ” replied the musical invisible.
“ Come, friend, no more jesting. I see thou art a merry
fellow. Speak plainly. Tell me who thou art and how many have we here.”
“ Be comforted, friend. None but thou and I are here. Cheer up. This is but a temporary misfortune—
“ Soon, soon, will this dark dreary night be gone by, And our hearts be lit up with a beam from the sky! Oh, let not our spirits, embittered with pain, Be dead to the sunshine that comes to us then!
Heart in heart, hand in hand, let us welcome the weather, And sunshine or storm, we^will bear it together.” .
“Peace! peace! neighbor!” said VonSchrinckenbach.
“ My heart is sad and ill able to bear this roistering.”
“Is this a time to be cloudy and sad,
When all is smiling above and around;
When even the deep blue heavens look glad, And gladness breathes from the blossoming ground ? ”
“How can we know, in this dark hole, what is smiling or frowning above and around ? It is well enough for you, who are probably guilty of some misdemeanor, to be thankful that you suffer no worse. No wonder that you can sing and be gay. But I, anrinnocent—nay, an injured man, confined by official tyranny in this dark hole! Robbed of my wealth, which probably I shall never see again!—robbed under the specious pretext of protection against robbery! Oh! I cannot think of it! I can no longer trust in public justjbe 1 I give up—”
“Never give up! There are chances and changes Helping the hopeful a hundred to one;
And, through the chaos, high Wisdom arranges Ever success, if you’ll only hope on.
Never give up! for the wisest is boldest, Knowing that Providence mingles the cup;
And of all maxims, the best, as the oldest, Is the true watchword of ‘Never give up!’”
The unseen sang this simple but cheery stave to a melody so well adapted to the sentiments that even Von Schrinckenbach felt less despondent. He groped his way across to the pallet of straw on which the other was sitting, and sat down by him. After he had finished the verse, Von Schrinckenbach asked his name and occupation, and the cause that had brought him into trouble.
“Ask me not why—" began the other.
“Nay, nay,” said Von Schrinckenbach, “I appreciate your melodies, it is true, but as answers they are somewhat indefinite,—tell me simply what I ask.”
“My name, sir,—for I perceive by your address that I speak to a gentleman of culture,—my name is Reitbauer, and by occupation I am captain of a whaling vessel in which I have circumnavigated the Boreal pole. I am, said I? I should rather say that having been captain of a whaling vessel I have now sunk to the level of a participant in the shad fishery. From being a whaler I am reduced to a mere shadder.”
“Like me, alas!—unfortunate!” said Von Schrinckenbach.
“I don’t know,” said the Shadder. “Whaling has its honors, but its dangers also. In my present peaceful abode, I find more solid happiness; returning nightly laden with my finny prey, I fear no squalls, save those of the domestic order.”
“ But wherefore hera? ”
“Ah! that you will probably find out when we are both brought before the Mayor in the morning. As for myself I do not pretend to understand the reason. Now, let qs
I
308
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
snatch a few moments of such repose as these poor accommodations will afford.”
“Dear friend,” said Von Schrinckenbach, “one more delightful, soothing strain from thee, and I sink to rest.”
And the other gently entoned the beautiful lyric of W. H.
Godfrey:	'
“Softly fall the shades of evening,
O’er the valley hush’d and still,
' As the sun’s last rays are falling ■ From the distant western hill.
Balmy mists have lulled to slumber
Weary tenants of the tree;
Stars in bright and glorious number Sparkle on the western sea.
“ Softly fall the shades of evening •
On the bosom of the deep ;
Winds in gentle whisperings murmur
Woo the sweet wild flowers to sleep.
Far on high the moon ascending
Sheds on all her peaceful beams, From her silvery throne she smileth, Smileth on a world of dreams.”
As the last sweet cadence died away, the regular breathing of Von Schrinckenbach gave token that he had succumbed to the somniferous influences, and was tasting a respite from the anxieties of the previous day. The Shadder too was soon asleep.
**********
Mein Herr Von Schmallbeer, the Mayor, was aroused from his slumbers more abruptly than agreed with his constitution. “ But you can't see him! ” exclaimed the angry valet-de-cliambre. “ But I will see him! ” echoed the imperative tones of Von Lunchengrab. “ Who’s there ? ” shouted the now thoroughly awakened Mayor. “ May it please your honor, a man covered with blood! ”
A silence, and then a sound as of one drawing on a heavy pair of boots. Then a clicking as of one riming a loaded barquebus. And then the door was suddenly flung open, and the Mayor stood-there, armed cap-a-pie.
“Traitor, surrender! ’’ said he, addressing the motionless Von Lunchengrab.
“At your honor’s bidding,” replied Von Lunchengrab.
“Why comest thou hither at this unseemly time of night; and why these bloody hands ? ”
“ The blood is that of one in the uniform of the preservers of the public peace whom I found in Dedley Alley weltering in his gore, and evidently wounded to the death. His heart had ceased to beat, and before I knew it I had stained these hands and garments with the purple tide. It is therefore that I come to acquaint thee that some foul murder has been done! ”
“Secure this man,” said Herr Von Schmallbeer to the gathering crowd of attendants and hangers-on. “And some of you goto Dedley Alley, and see that the murdered man is properly disposed of for the night. On the morrow he will be identified, and we will enquire further into this.”
He was about to shut his door and return to his muchloved couch, when a fresh tumult in the hail caused him to hesitate. Foremost entered the trembling and abashed figure of Foxenthaler, guilt betrayed in every look and furtive movement. After him followed, stern and unyielding as Nemesis, the uncompromising Orientalist, armed with the elegantly mounted revolver and bearing the bursting belt of diamonds.
He had caused his victim for exercise to promenade thus
the principal, but, at this hour, deserted streets of the city. That was the reason of their late arrival.
(The suite by and by.)
History.
Of all the studies that tend to show up human nature, to give us an insight, on the one hand, into the foibles to . which poor fallen humanity is prone, and on the other brings before us elevated human thought, a high, pure, and invig- v orating sphere of action, there is none, probably, that will ’ compare with history. History is the medium through which we are brought into communication with the great spirits of other generations, the link, as it were, that unites the present with the past, the source through which we become familiar with the manners and customs of different peoples. With what melancholy pleasure, ofttimes, do we go back in spirit to the far distant past and commune with its mighty heroes ? how often do we not sit, in imagination, amid the mouldering and moss-covered ruins of cities that were once the pride of powerful nations, great centres of commerce and ^wealth, and contemplate the cause of • their downfall! These reflections are salutary, and such as can be derived from the study of history alone. Its every page is pregnant with the concentrated wisdom of the great men who have preceded us. As a lantern is indispensable to one entering a long, dark and gloomy cave, so also is the light of history indispensable to the one who would peer through the Cimmerian darkness that envel- £ ops and obscures the past.	.
History is, indeed, “philosophy teaching by example.” ' In its pages we find tedious, and what would otherwise prove uninteresting, narrative clothed in all the attractive and graceful drapery that rhetoric can impart. The salient points of the human character are here portrayed in all truth. It shows us, on the one hand, a nation prospering under the guidance of a wise and discreet ruler; on the ' other hand, under barbarous rule or grinding despotism, a nation’s commerce languishing, its agriculture decaying, and finally the lights of religion and science, which constitute a nation’s bulwark, becoming extinguished. All this does history show us; and like the compass which guides the mariner in his course upon the trackless ocean, enab- ' ling him to steer clear of the shoals and reefs that lie in his path, so also history points out to us the obstacles which impede a nation’s progress, and the causes which are apt to lead to a nation’s destruction.
Who, then, can underrate the importance of this most in- K structive and likewise most interesting branch of litera- W ture? And yet, unfortunately, the majority of young persons are but too apt to ignore its importance; they spend the time which they should devote to this study in reading trashy novels which tend to cloud the mind, to impair the intellect, to corrupt the morals, and, finally, wholly unfit a yovng man for the stern realities of life. ’ I would, then, say to all young persons, employ your leisure moments in reading history, and you will derive solid benefit therefrom ; your mind will be stored with much useful and general information, which will be of great practical use to you in after life.	K. C.
—An Iowa editor recently announced that a certain patron of his was “thieving as usual.” He declared he Wrote it “ thriving,”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	309
* Scientific Notes.
—The Portuguese Exploring Expedition in Africa has been directed to confine its explorations to the Quango.
—It is proposed that a Congress of French Geographical Societies shall be held at Paris in August or September of next year.
/—The Chinese have a strange idea that the inventor of ink has a blessed immortality, based upon his valuable discovery. They say he keeps account of the manner in ■which all ink is used here below, and for every abuse of it records a black mark against the offender.
—During the year 1876, the total production of amber in Prussia amounted to 135 tons. The mine of Palmmcken yielded eighty-five tons. The amber was exported principally to Austria, France, America, Russia, China, and Japan. The number of men employed in Prussia by this industry is nearly 1,400.
—The rose-bush at Hildesheim Castle, which is believed to be over a thousand years old, has within late years shown symptoms of approaching dissolution. Skilful - floriculturists have been called to prescribe restorative treatment ; and this year the bush has put forth new shoots, and appears to have taken a fresh hold on life.
—The seeds of a leguminous plant growing in Mexico have been remarked as possessing a capacity for hopping about in an unparalleled manner. Mr. Henry Edwards, the entomologist, has revealed the secret of their motion. The larva of a moth of the Tortricidaj makes its home in these seeds, and jerks them about with its movements.
—In a paper read before the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Mrs. Ingram stated that all the mosquitoes in a room may be destroyed by exploding a small quantity of gunpowder in the apartment. The opinion was advanced that similar explosions might be employed to destroy the phylloxera of the grapevine and the germs of disease.
—Mr. Worthington Smith has detected a fossil fungus nearly allied to that which affects the potato. It was observed in the coal-measures, and has been named Peronos-porites antiquarius. It is not the first specimen of fossil fungi that has been found, as mycelial threads were detected in silicified wood, and in the cells of a fossil fern, by different observers; many years ago.
—From a few experiments carefully conducted by Prof. J. Plateau, of Ghent, it would appear that the instinct of insects is not deceived by artificial flowers. They may be attracted from a distance dy the bright colors of the flowers, but are not tempted to alight upon them in quest of food. From this, Prof. Plateau concludes that insects are not guided by sight in their visits to flowers.
—Dr. Herman Muller, the eminent German botanist, considers that all flowers were in the beginning declinous,— that is, the pistils and stamens were borne in separate flowers, aud were fertilized by the wind. In the course of the ages, hermaphrodism or the assemblage of the pistils and stamens in the same flower has been developed, and become the established condition in the majority of species.
—Broken bottles are utilized in England in the manufacture of cheap jewelry, chimney ornaments, and inferior household glass for the manufacturing districts. Also for the manufacture of emery powder, glass paper, etc. One soda-water maker in London, last year, broke, in the processes of filling, corking, cleaning, and distributing his soda, one hundred tons of bottles. Tnis old glass brings about ten shillings per ton.
—Several English scientists are endeavoring to ascertain the quantity of salt that is contained in rain water. In the College of Circenster, says the Agricultural Students’ Gazette, the result of experiments in that direction is that in the average quantity of rain that falls during the year there are thirty pounds of salt to every acre. It is worthy of observation that Circenster, where this extraordinary fact was ascertained, is only thirty-five miles from the Bristo canal.
—A material called “ indestructible glass ” has been patented in France, and the patentee uses it for making printing types that have been introduced into practical use
among his countrymen, in Germany, and elsewhere. They are said to be preferable to metal types in many respects, and in no respect inferior to them. They are cast in the same molds, and make an equally clear and defined impression. They suffer less from wear, cost less, and are healthier for the compositors to handle.
—The prairie-chicken (Cupidonia cupido) appears to be spreading west and southward. It has been noted in California within late years. Coues limits its habitat to the prairie-country of the United States, nearly to the eastern foot-hills of the Rocky Mountains; but the birds seem to be moving westward from Nebraska, along the route of the railroad. They once inhabited localities in New England aud the Middle States, where, however, they have been almost wholly exterminated.
—A contributor to a scientific paper writes: “I find that under very favorable circumstances it is just possible to see, while in England, a church in France with unassisted vision. In the direction of Calais the coast of Artois is very flat, and on the 26th of March last I found through my telescope a large church or cathedral a few miles to the westward of Calais; and I could also see it distinctly through an opera glass; but I certainly was astonished on the evening in question to find that I could just distinguish it with the naked eye as a tiny dark speck against the bright horizon sky. I question whether there are many days, or even hours, in any one year when the same results could be obtained.”
—An interesting archaeological discovery has just been made in Italy, that of a buried town, a new Pompeii, unexpectedly found near Manfredonia, at the foot of Mount Gargano. A temple of Diana was first brought to light, and then a portico twenty metre in length, with columns without capitals; and finally a necropolis covering 15,000 square metres (about 3^£ acres). A large number of inscriptions have been collected, and some of them have .been sent to the Museum at Naples. The town discovered is the ancient Sipontum, of which Strabo, Polybeus, and Livy speak, and which was buried by an earthquake. The houses are 20 feet below the surface of the soil. The Italian Government has taken measures to continue the excavations on a large scale. Every day some fresh object of interest turns up. The latest is a monument erected in honor of Pompey after his victory over the pirates, and a large quantity of coins in gold and copper.
—MM. Feil and Fremy, at a recent meeting of the Paris Academy of Sciences, read a paper describing a new process for the manufacture of rubies and other precious stones. The sensation created by these wonderful experiments has been so general that the Association of Jewellers have written to some of the papers stating that it was impossible for human art to compete with nature, who has at her disposal an indefinite number of centuries, which is not -the case with any human worker. M. Daubree, the Director of the School of Mines, has expressed the wish to open, in the public museum of that establishment, a gallery for the exhibition of minerals produced artificially. M. Feil has already produced in his glass foundry, and by the same process as rubies, an immense number of stones, which can be compared with the most admirable crystalline productions of nature. Some of them are so inexpensive that they may be used for ordinary decorative purposes.
—A Capuchin friar in Turin has constructed a large and complicated work of mechanism by which the passion or sufferings of the Saviour, from His condemnation before Herod to His death on the cross, are marvellously represented. On a constantly receding platform the figures appear and the scenes change. Not only are the movements of the automata lifelike, but the figures and scenery are masterpieces of art. The crowd clamoring for His death is represented by a very numerous group of figures, which are wonderfully distinct in action and appearance. The falling beneath the cross on the way to Calvary is painfully graphic. To render quite audible the lashing of the whips of the soldiers is one of the functions of the machinery. The scenes at the place of execution and the death of the Saviour are said to be beyond praise, and a writer in a Turin paper declares that the extraordinary mechanism has but one imperfection—the capacity of mak-
310
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
' ing the figures articulate intelligibly. The imperfection is chiefly evident when the words are exchanged between the Redeemer and the penitent thief. The sounds emitted from the figures are in this instance ludicrous: but the friar hopes to remedy this defect, and his mechanism will in ail likelihood be an object of wonder at the Paris Exhibition.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Gounod's “Polyeucte” is at length in possession of M. Halanzier for the Paris grand Opera.
—The French Academy of Moral Sciences has elected Ralph Waldo Emerson one of its foreign associates.
—The Russian critics have dealt so severely with Tur-gueneff’s last novel, “ Virgin Soil,” that the author declares he will write no more.
—M Joualt, a Frenchman, has printed a pamphlet entitled “ Rutherford B. Hayes—la Presideux aux Etats-Unis; les Partis et la Constitution.
—Mr. Sol Eytinge, in his illustrations to the “ Songs of the Milkmaid” in the January Scribner, has put the milkmaid on the wrong side of the cow.
—The February number of The GaMwlic World will can-tain an article from the pen of Mgr. Capel on the present relations of the confessional in the Church of England.
—Thomas Edward, the Scotch naturalist, is at present collecting reminiscences of his life and notes of his observations, which may form a supplement to the life already published.
—It pleased us much to learn from the publisher, Messrs. Murphy & Co., of Baltimore, that they are now printing the thirty-fifth thousand of that admirable work, “ The Faith of Our Fathers.”
—A nocturne for orchestra, illustrating a scene from Longfellow’s “Hiawatha,” and composed by Mr. C. C. Muller of New York, was plajed with applause at a recent Harvard Symphony Concert in Boston.
—Orlindo Guerrini, ayoung Italian of considerable poetic talent, recently published a volume of poems at Bologna as the work’ of a dead friend. Now that the poemshave been well received he confesses to their authorship.
—The King of Saxony has nominated Baron Tauchnitz of Leipzig, the well-known publisher, to one of the very limited number of life peerages in the Upper Chamber of the Saxon Parliament, vacant by a recent death.
—The illustrious archaeologist, Baron Pietro Ercole Visconti, has just received the Grand Cross of the Pontifical Order of St. Gregory the Great. This is another illustration of how Pius IX encourages the Arts. •
—The Abbe Laffetay, the custodian of the library at Bayeux, has just published a “ travail definitif” on the celebrated tapestry of Queen Matilda. In it he undertakes to prove that this beautiful art of needlework had its origin in Normandy.
—Baron Baude, French Ambassador at the Vatican, has received permission to send to the great Exhibition which is to be held at Paris this year two magnificent chandeliers, the work of Signor Galvi, one of the moat celebrated sculptors in Rome.
—At Vienna, Wagner, the irrepressible, has been successful in his lawsuit against the music publisher, Herr Adolph Furstner, who has been condemned to refund the sums received from the Imperial Opera-House for the new music in the Venusberg.
—One of the stipulations Dr. Von Bulow made when he accepted the post of conductor at the Hamburg opera-house was, that he should be allowed to select one opera for production annually. The choice of Dr. Von Bulow has this year fallen upon Berlioz’ “ Benvenuto Cellini.”
—The Revue dea Deux Hondes speaks of a bibliomaniac named Ludovic Garreu, who killed eight persons in order to legally inherit a rare volume which he coveted. It mentions also a pastor in Saxony who murdered a man and his female servant to obtain funds for the purchase of a library.
—The Astor Library contains 175,000 volumes. During the past eighteen months, 15,000 volumes have been added to the collection; and, within the pastyear, nearly $60,000 has been expended in the purchase of rare and valuable books, manuscripts, etc. The number of readers and of works consulted have increased 25 per cent, within the last half-year.	-
—An English translation by Rev. G. B. Border, Abbot, Cistercian Order, of Abbe Gay’s great book, “ De la vie et des vertus Chretiennes considerees dans 1’otat religieux,” is now completed, and will soon be published. It has been strongly recommended by the most eminent of the Bishops in France to religious communities, to the clergy, and also to the laity.
—The royal astronomer at Greenwich, England, has figured up the transit of Venus calculations handed in by the English observers, and makes out the distance from the sun to the earth to be 93,375,000 miles. The figuring from France and America has yet to appear, and it is thought that it will prove more accurate. Up to the time of the transit, the best methods pointed out the distance to be 92,350,000 miles.
—Maria Theresa performed the ceremonv of opening the University of Pesth in 1780. Preparations are now being made for celebrating the centennial anniversary of this event. The institution is rich, owning property valued at 8,000,000 florins, and a library of 120,000 volumes. Of the other two Hungarian Universities, Klansenburg was founded in 1872, and Azram in 1874. The students number in all 2,630, and the instructors 150.
—The splendid collection of ancient and modern instruments, which might have been acquired from M. Adolphe Sax for the sum of £1,600, has been sold by auction in Paris. The three days’ sale in detail produced only £480, the lots falling to the conservatories of Paris and Brussels, and to the private museum of M. Sweck, of Renaix, in Belgium, who has already eight huudred iustruments. A. most valuable collection, which it took forty years to collect, has thus been scattered. The Asiatic, African, American, and European specimens of remote periods were some of them priceless.
—Wilson Macdonald, the sculptor, read before the Polytechnic Society in New York, on the 4th of January, an interesting lecture on “Prehistoric Art,” dealing largely with the work of the mound-builders’in Ohio and elsewhere. The lecturer traced a resemblance between the mound-builders and the ancient Egyptian architects; and in regard to the builders of the ruined cities of South and Central America and Colorado, he said it was a doubtful question whether they had learned their art from Egypt or whether the workmen of what we look upon as the older world did not gain their knowledge from those of the new.
—Among Sydney Smith’s manuscripts was found an account of English misrule in Ireland from the earliest period to his own time, compiled from the most trustworthy authorities, and forming so fearful a picture that he hesitated to give it to the world when completed. After his death his wife asked Macaulay whether he advised its publication, who, in 1847, in a letter in which he calls Sydney Smith “ the greatest master of ridicule that has appeared among us since Swift,” wrote that he thought that the piece, “ though honorable to his memory,” had better not be published, now that Catholic disabilities had been rem oved.
—A roll of papyrus, 139 feet long and sixteen and a half inches broad, was discovered by Mr. Harris, in an old Theban tomb, some twenty years ago. At his death, his daughter inherited the treasure. The Khedive, learning, through the Egyptologist, M. Brugsch Bey, of the value of the MSS., offered £2,000 for it; but Miss Harris accepted a higher offer from the British Museum. Dr. Birch and a corps of assistants have been engaged for some time in deciphering the inscriptions with which the papyrus is covered, and find that they afford a complete account of the life and works of Barneses Hl and of the condition of Thebes 3,000 years ago.
—Mr. Hoadley, the state librarian of Connecticut, possesses the manuscript of an unpublished life of Gen. Grant by his father, Jesse R. Grant, who furnished it to Richard *A.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	311
Wheeler, of North Stonington, when that gentleman was publishing in a newspaper the genealogy of the Grant family. The late Henry 0. Deming was permitted to peruse and make use of this manuscript in preparing his life of Grant, which gave him the internal revenue collectorship of his district. This manuscript gives a different version of the manner in which Grant got the name of Ulysses from the common story that it was the mistake of the Congressmen who sent him to West Point, asserting that the name was one of a lot drawn from a hat when his parents were debating what to call him.
—The London Athenaeumsays: “ Biblical musical dramas, with operatic raise en scene, are on the increase, both in France and in Germany. At Weimar, the three-act opera biblique “ Samson et Dalila,” music by AL Saint-Saens, libretto by M. F. Lemaier, has met with great success. The German version is by Herr Richard Pohl. Fraulein Von Muller was Dalila (mezzo-soprano), Herr Ferenczy was Samson (tenor), Herr Milde, Grand Priest (bass). Herr Lassen conducted a fine band. The execution was admirable ; the style of the score is decidedly Wagnerian. Herr Bernecker’s ‘Judith’has been produced at Konigsberg. ‘Samson et Dalila’is to be given now in Paris, where audiences have received favorably the ‘ Mary Magdalen ’ and ‘Eve,’ by M. Massenet, and the ‘Tower of Babel,’ by Herr Rubinstein.”
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from the Catholic Publication Society, 9 Barclay St. New York the “Sayings, Instructions and Prayers of the Foundress of the Sisters of Mercy.” Though published for the use of the religious of that Congregation it is a little work useful for nuns and Sisters of all orders, and, for that matter, people in the world may find it very useful.
Why a Catholic in the Nineteenth Century ? By William Giles Dix. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St. 1878. Pp. 101.
This essay of Mr. Dix is written with great elegance of style and strength of reasoning. Appealing to all who profess Christianity, he shows how all sects and all teachings outside the Catholic Church lead to infidelity. She alone can withstand the attacks secret and open of the foes of revealed religion. If, then, man has at heart the extension of the love of Christ and His word, he ought to place himself within the pale of the Catholic Church, where alone his efforts can be productive of good. We recommend this little work to the seekers after truth.
—David Garrick was once on a visit at Mr. Kirby's seat, Mistly Hall, Essex, when Mr. Gough formed one of the party. Observing the potent appetite of the learned doctor, Garrick indulged in some jests on the occasion, to the great amusement of the company, the doctor excepted, who, when the laugh had subsided, thus addressed the party: “ Gentlemen, you must, doubtless, suppose from the extreme familiarity with which Mr. Garrick has thought fit to treat me, that I am an acquaintance of his; but I can assure you that till I- met hiip here I never saw him but once before, and then I paid five shillings for the sight.” Roscius was silenced.
—Wilkes was a very fascinating companion. When in the House of Commons he has frequently detained gentlemen of adverse politics from the House by his wit and humor, merely to prevent them voting on some question in which he felt interested; and so attractive was his society that it was difficult for any person to tear himself from it; indeed, wit was so constantly at his command that wagers have been gained that from the time he quitted his home near Storey’s Gate till he reached Guildhall, no one would speak to him who would leave him without a smile or a laugh. Although Earl Sandwich was in continued political hostility to Wilkes, no man was more sensible of his convivial qualities. When Mr. Charles Butler, who, in an appointment with his lordship was behind time, apologized by saying he had dined with Mr. Wilkes, “ Well,” said his lordship, “ the fascination of Wilkes has made me break appointments so often that it is but fair he should make a person break his appointment with me for once."
—Crantz, in his “ Saxon History,” tells us of an Earl of Alsatia, surnamed, on account of his great strength, “The Lion,” who was a favorite of Edward I IE, of England, and much envied, as favorites are always sure to be, bv the rest of the courtiers. On one occasion, when the King was absent, some noblemen maliciously instigated the Queen to make trial of the noble blood of the favorite, by causing a lion to be let loose upon him, saying, according to the popular belief, if the Earl were truly noble, the lion would not touch him. It being customary with the Earl to rise at the break of day, before any other person in the palace was stirring, a lion was let loose during the night and turned into the lower court. When the Earl came down in the morning, with no more than a night-gown cast over his shirt, he was met by the lion, bristling his hair, and growling destruction between his teeth. The E irl, not in the least daunted, called out in a loud voice, “ Stand, you dog! ” At these words the lion crouched at his feet, to the great amazement of the courtiers, who were peeping out at every window to see the issue of their ungenerous design. The Earl laid hold of the lion by the mane, turning him into his cage, and placing his night-cap on the lion’s back, came forth without casting a look behind. “Now,” said the Earl, calling out to the courtiers, “ let him among you all that standeth upon his pedigree, go and fetch my night-cap.”
“ There are no cooks in Rome!” so said a recent writer in the Journal des Debats, and this is one of the crimes which the factors of modern civilization lay to the charge of the Papacy, with more reason, it must be admitted, than some of then- other charges; perhaps it is the fault of the Popes that an illustrious Frenchman, when sojourning in Rome, cannot get the sort of dinners he is accustomed to have in Paris. He admits that there is abundance of learning, piety, and so forth, but a lamentable neglect of the science of gastromony, in which Rome is sadly behind not merely the French cities, but even German and English towns, and this is to be attributed to the long years of Papal government! It must be admitted that the defence of the Popes from this charge is not so easy as some others, for they have been models uf frugality, as far as eating was concerned. Gregory I thought more of the poor than of cooks, snd had twelve poor wretches fed at his table daily, and often waited on them himself—an example followed by Adrian I, St. Nicholas, and many other Popes. Innocent III, too, is much to blame, for he never allowed more than two dishes to be served at his table, and Paul III during his dinner, listened to philosophical and theological disquisitions by learned professors, whom he had brought in for that purpose. Marcellus II, besides using great parsimony in his food and simplicity in the service of his table, had the Sacred Scriptures and the holy Fathers read to him while he was eating. St. Pius V, too, is blameworthy, for he would not allow the cook to spend more than tenpence for his dinner, and Gregory XIII, magnificent in all else, never allowed more than eighteen-pence. Sixtus V, made a meditation, while partaking of dinner, upon the sufferings caused by famine, and Innocent IX ate only one meal a day, and that in the evening. Clement VIII shared his dinner with a number of poor persons equal to the years of his Pontificate, and Alexander VII during dinner meditated on death, and every article which he ate or drank, or which contained his food—dishes, plates and cups—were all ornamented with a painting or engraving of the death’s head and cross-bones, and however we may shudder at the thought of such embellishments on our dinner plates, we must as Christians confess that they would have a wholesome effect upon our souls. Clement IX was a great abstainer, and Innocent XII spent only fifteen pence daily in eating and drinking; Clement XI placed the same restriction on his daily expenses, and, besides, fasted often, and had his dinner given to the poor; Clement XII invited the King of the Two Sicilies to dine at the Quirinal, and during dinner caused his chief chaplain to read Bellarmine’s tract de officio Principis Christiani. The fastings and abstinences of the last Pope are well known. Of the reigning Pontiff it would be unseemly to write publicly. History will show that he did not disgrace the examples of pure living left him by his predecessors. No wonder, then, that the art of cookery, or at least flesh cooking, should not have made much progress in a kingdom whose sovereigns have been such models of parsimony and mortification.—• Catholic Review.
312
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, January 12, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of- the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Work for Young Men.
The world has always been loud in its praise of those who, incited by patriotism, magnanimously devoted their whole life and talents to break the bonds which bound their countrymen under the yoke of tyranny. Greece still pays just tribute to the memory of the heroes of Marathon and Leuctra, who nobly sealed their country’s liberty with their blood. Modern Rome, turning from the dark deeds of a Victor Emanuel, glories in the true valor of her ancient sons, whose names shall never die.
But there are other heroes who have gone forth from their native lands strengthened, not by that physical courage that prompts the gladiator to face the lion, or the pugilist to meet his antagonist without flinching, but nerved with true moral courage, sublime and grand. The aim of these heroes was not only to break those shackles imposed hy kings, but to break the bonds of delusion, to rend the clouds of darkness and let the sun of truth shine forth. Theirs is not that patriotism that extends only to the bounds of their own immediate country. No, it penetrates wherever the human foot has trod, and embraces all humanity. Such have been and are the heroes of the Church, the guiding stars of civilization, the protectors of arts and sciences, the comforters of the afflicted, the consolers of the dying. This missionary spirit is inherited in the Church, and dates from the moment when Christ said to His Apostles: “Go, teach all nations.” Since St. Peter first planted the Cross in Rome, through the dark days of persecution down to our own time, the Church has fulfilled that command. In times of persecution she was the only mediator between the ruler and the people, the only barrier to tyr-rannical and bigoted power; for religion gives strength from above, and is alone capable of inspiring men with such a proper sense of duty as to raise them above this
world; leading them to regard with contempt present dangers and to assert truths fearlessly in the presence of power. This has formed in every age the noblest attribute of the missionaries of the.Church.
In order to have a better knowledge of the immense labors of those champions of religion and civilization, let us examine the state of our country at the commencement of those labors. Long before the Puritans landed at Plymouth, and long after their advent, while the English settlers still hugged the Atlantic shores, indifferent to the instruction of the Indians, the hunting grounds of the red man was traversed from north to south, from east to west, by the heroes of the Church. The field of their labors were one as yet unmatched for extent and difficulty. The region now studded with cities and towns, traversed in every direction by the puffing steam car and lightning telegraph, was then an unbroken forest, save where the wild prairie rolled its wide billows of grass towards the western mountains, or became lost in the sterile salt and sandy plains of the Southwest. No cities raised towards heaven their spires—no plow turned up the rich soil—no metals dug from the bowels of our virgin earth were as yet fashioned into instruments to aid men in the arts of peace and war. The savage Indians that inhabited the country roamed the forests, only a little less wild than the beasts of prey. Such was the state of the country that our missionaries, the champions of Christ, had to conquer, and bravely did they face the toils and dangers that beset them on every side. A thousand dangers from wild beasts— dangers from the roaming savage—dangers from countless sources; superadded to which were,hunger, fatigue and want, and the sight of inland seas around, was enough to make the bravest heart to flinch. But then in the language of an American historian, “ the missionary never receded a foot. He stood without parallel on the pages of of history for self-devotedness, energy of purpose, purity of motive, holiness of design.” His courage was found more than sublime, even to eyes blinded by human greatness. And to glance from the past to the present to conjecture the future, we defy the world to show more triumphant proofs of the power of religion, even for the temporal well-being of nations. As late as three-fourths of a century ago, although there was no law interfering with our religion, nor penal statute making it a crime to obey the dictates of conscience, yet sectarian hate was rife, and there was an evident dislike for anything Catholic. But Christ’s apostle, with the cross in one hand, and the breviary in the other, preached the truth and scattered the delusions engendered by ages of accumulated misrepresentation. With the spear of Ithuriel he pierced the swollen ulcer of prejudice, and its noxious humor has been rapidly dispelled; and to-day Catholicity stands the pillar of our liberty, and the bulwark of civil and religious freedom. Such were our champions. The missionary possessed true courage, and became the most victorious of conquerors. Not the conqueror that comes, as some baneful planet hurled for destruction from its fiery orbit, to scatter ruin and dismay, speeding the thunderbolts of war and lashing nations with fury, overturning thrones, uprooting dynasties, depopulating states, or involving whole races in destruction. No, he came as the messenger of peace, with charity in his bosom and the smile of hope beaming on his countenance, reconstructing the foundation of a savage government upon the basis of law, order, humanity and justice, combatting error, uprooting vice,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
313
;	and sowing in savage hearts the seeds of brotherly love.
Such were those divinely commissioned conquerors, whose works are proof even against envenomed prejudice. They were; the conquerors who made America what she is to-day, the home of the persecuted, the refuge of those who fled from tyranny.
It was our ancestors, following up the self-denying labors .	of our missionaries, who erected the stately cathedrals and
the humble village churches, who founded our orphan asy-;	lums, our hospitals and our schools. It w_as their money
■y and their labor which have built up the Church in America. We who are young know not of the hardships which ■	they had to undergo. We find things in- a prosperous
state, and we-see not the enemy which threatens them by seducing our young men from the Church. With spe-1	cious reasoning, infidelity would draw them away. With
allurements hard to resist, it beckons off. It has its places of amusements, its society, its orators, its literature, all of which tell them: “Practice what religion you choose, so you do not make any display of it,” and jeers and mocks at all religion. But are things ever to be thus? Shall we lay supinely on our backs and allow the works of our forefathers to pass for naught? Are all trials and troubles over? Are we now to lie asleep in the lap of luxury and ease, and permit the foundation laid by the past generation ‘ to take its course, depending only upon the efforts of the pastors of the Church to counteract the poisonous influ' ence? This indeed would be ungrateful. For nature herself, that adorns the whole earth, if neglected and if permit-<	ted to take its course would soon return to thorns and
thistles; so also is it with man; if deprived of the nourishment designed for him by God he would soon return to infidelity. The pastors of the Church do not intermingle with society, and consequently have only at intervals an opportunity of inspiring the souls of their flocks. How then can they alone and unaided carry on that work so successfully commenced ? It is on us, the young men of the •country, that this task devolves. It is we who by our words and example, by our charity to all, who must assist in enkindling in the hearts of the faithful devotion’s dying embers. We should organize associations and societies wherein we can practice those virtues, and, drawing our own minds from sinful and ungodly amusements, inspire others to follow our example. For every attraction which infidelity furnishes, we must offer another. For the clubhouse, we must have the Catholic Union; for the infidel lecturer, we must have the Catholic orator; for the theatre, we must furnish the sacred concert, and all these can be done only by associations. We must create Catholic society for Catholic young men, and this can be accomplished, again, only by associations. By ourselves we can do but little, but united together we can work wonders and stem the tide of infidelity which threatens our young men. When the spirit of infidelity will be overcome, our example, with its fruits, shall be fresh in the minds of a grateful posterity. Let us not yield one inch of ground gained by our ancestors, who sacrificed their all, and braved unheard of dangers for the preservation of faith and morality; let us rather add to and embellish their work. Then when we have passed away our work shall not perish and our memories will be held in benison. We should not forget those men who by their indefatigable zeal cleared the way for us, and laid the foundation of the glorious work. Although the early missionaries and their fellow helpers have gone to claim their reward, yet their work lives, and our priests
with the young men’s associations and confraternities must endeavor to hold and add to what they have left us—we have to fight the battle against approaching rationalism, infidelity and heresy, and with the noble example of those gone before us we should feel strengthened and encouraged. After centuries will have passed away, the remembrance of our good works, as of theirs, will float down the stream of time, increasing in fruit with the progress of the human family. And when the persecutors of Europe shall have rotted in oblivion,"the fruits of our labors and of the labors of our ancestors will be as fresh as the waters that flow from the mountain spring, and as fragrant as the flowers that strew their banks. And in spite of the materialists of America, the tyrants of Germany, the usurpers and infidels of Italy, and the enemies of Catholicity throughout the world—inspite of all efforts to efface the work so gloriously begun, it will stand as a beacon upon a mountain, not as footprints on the sands of time.

Personal.
—Harry Fitzgibbon, (Commercial) of ’68, is city agent for P. O’Neill, State Street, opposite the Palmer House.
—George H. Madden, (Commercial) of ’63, is in company with Mr. John Goedtner. They are proprietors of the Germania Bank of Mendota, Ill.
—William Cochrane, (Commercial) of ’68, holds a clerical position in the Cook County Court House, Chicago, Ill. .
—T. C. Logan, of’77, passed through Notre Dame on his way to the Ann Arbor Law School. He is in excellent health, and says he will return to Notre Dame on the 22d of February to witness the Thespians’ Entertainment.
Edward McMahon and his brother, who attended class in the Minim department some years ago, are living in Chicago. Edward will return to Notre Dame soon.
—William Nelson (Commercial), of’76, is keeping books for his father on Adams St. near State, Chicago.
—James E. Hogan, of ’75, is studying theology at the Seminary of Mt. St. Mary’s of the West, near Cincinnati Ohio.
—Matthew Hackett (Commercial), of '68, is in business in Chicago. Mat is now married and settled for life.
—Francis Marks (Commercial), of ’75, is clerking in an establishment on North Clark St., Chicago, Ill. Louis Marks, of ’66, owns a place on Water St. in the same city.
—Daniel F. Egan (Commercial), of ’71, is living in Elgin, Ill.	.
—James Finley (Commercial), of ’75, is speculating in live stock, Chicago, Ill.	’
Gen. R. W. Healey, of '59, is mining in Alabama. The General comes out well in his speculations and is making money.
—Clarence Faxon (Commercial), of ’77, is with A. T. Stewart & Co. Wabash Avenue, Chicago. His brother Henry, of ’76, is in the same establishment.
—P. L. Garrity, of ’57, .is with the firm of Towle & Roper, Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
—Among our visitors last week were Messrs. M. Scanlon, Chicago; Ill., M. Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio; Thos. Kavanaugh, Dubuque, Iowa; and John H.Forth, Webster, Mich.
—W. P. Dickerson (Commercial), of ’66, is. clerking for Butt & Lawrence, Hillsdale, Mich.
—Rev. James McGlynn, of ’74, asistant pastor of St. Bridget’s Church, Chicago, Ill., visited us at the beginning of the week. Father McGlynn is in excellent health.
—John O’Connell (Commercial), of’74, now residing at Springfield, Ill., is employed as an operator in one of the offices of the Chicago & Alton R. R. John, they say,can sling lightning with any man on the road.
—John Carmody (Commercial), of ’74, is in business
314-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
with his father at Springfield, Ill. They carry on a most successful business. John speaks in the highest terms of Notre Dame, and is thinking of returning to enter another course.
—M. Malone (Commercial), of '65, and again of ’73, is teaching school at Springfield, Ill. He is spoken of as a most successful teacher, and that his ferule is often quite dusty from the want of use.
—G. V. Burbrdge (Commercial), of ’74, is in business at Alton, Ill.
—A. Chouteau (Commercial), of ’72, is doing well in his business in St. Louis, Mo.
—H. Beakey (Commercial), of ’69, is doing well in business in St. Louis, Mo.
—W. Sheehan (Commercial), of ’77, is in business in St. Louis, Mo.
A friend calling on Jas. Hagerty (Commercial), of ’77, in St Louis, Mo., he was found very busy in his father’s office, doing, as his father said, the duties of a first-class book-keeper.
Local Items. '
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1878 is having a large sale.
—Who will receive the highest percentage at the examination ?
—There was a meeting of the Thespian Association last Thursday evening.
—How about that play from Plautus which the Classicals were to give us this winter?
—What Bishop in the United States is little less than miraculous ? Why, Bishop Mrack.
—The Scotch game of “ Nine Stane Merrell ” is got to be quite a favorite game with the Juniors.
—All the students have returned from their Christmas vacation, and classes are well attended.
—There is every appearance of there being fine skating in a few days; a thing that few students regret.
—There were a large number of new students received at Notre Dame when classes recommenced after the holidays.
—B. Leander is under obligations to J. E. Hagerty, of St. Louis, and J. Larkin, of Po.tsville, Pa., for favors received.
—There is a prize to be given to the Junior that gets the highest percentage in the Preparatory Course at the next examination.
—The readers in the Junior refectory are engaged in reading Abbe Gaume’s “ Sign of the Cross in the Nineteenth Century.”
—We had a heavy fall of snow last week, the first since the little fall last autumn. We may now safely say that winter has begun.	'
—The Junior prefects are under obligation to Mr. Single^ of Plymonth, Indiana, for favors received through his son, Frank Singler.
—The Western Democrat, published at Mason City, Iowa, contains a very readable letter, written from Notre Dame, by Mr. James H. McConlogue.	•
—The proprietor of the Millburn House speaks of the Juniors that visited his place as the most gentlemanly set of students that ever visited Mishawaka.
—A magnificent Seebeck Syren was received for the Cabinet of Physics last week. It forms quite an addition to the collection of acoustic apparatus.	•
—The 16th regular meeting of the Columbian Society took place January 6th. After reports of officers, Messrs. Congar and Hazlett were elected members. .
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges a donation of specimens to the Cabinet of Geology from Louis and Pius Zahm, of Huntington, Ind.
—The 17lh regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place January 5th. Declamations were given by Messrs. T. Nelson and J. Perea.
—We find Mr. F. P. Wade, General Passenger and Ticket
Agent of the Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago Railroad a ■ •most amiable gentleman and energetic officer.
—We call the attention of our readers to the advertisement in another column of the Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago Railroads, and recommend our friends from Indianapolis and neighboring cities, when visiting, to patronize this road.
—The psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are Dixit Do-minus, page 1 of the Vesperal; Conjiiebor, page 1; Beatus vir, page 2; Laudate, page 2, and In exitu Israel, page 2. The hymn may be found on page 76. In the morning Misse de Angdis will be sung.
—The students met with quite a disappointment last Wednesday. On Tuesday the prospects were good for a day’s skating, on Wednesday the ice being over three inches in thickness; but a slight rain during Tuesday night and a thaw on Wednesday made the ice unsafe.
—Oh, the snow, the beautiful snow! Aloft, alow, wherever we go, everywhere feathery, beautiful snow. It covers the housetops, it fi inges the trees; it mantles our mother-earth, is blown by the breeze; emblem of pure hearts untainted by sin,—“Hallo!—don’t throw, and I’ll never again—”
—Very Rev. Father General has again received from Mr. Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind., a pass on the “Inman Line ” to Europe and return. This compliment to Father Sorin is highly appreciated by him. Mr. Wile is a most estimable gentleman, and has long been entered on the list of Notre Dame’s warmest friends.
—We are indebted to Prof. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame University, for a copy of his Scholastic Almanac for 1878, now in its third year. It is a handsome volume, neatly printed and compiled with great care, having special refer- . ence to Catholic readers. Its literary merits are of a high order.—St. Joseph Valley Register.
—It is hard to say who will receive the highest percentage at the examination, but we think we can safely say that it will not be any of those who frequent the infirmary when there is no just cause for doing so. It may be uncharitable to say that there are any such persons, but the belief seems to be prevalent that such is the case. ’
—Prof. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, has fairly surpassed himself in getting out this year’s edition of his ever popular Scholastic Almanac. Aside from its strictly calendar features, its literary contents are the best that we have ever seen in any similar publication. It is deserving of the wide sales already secured for it.—South Bend Tribune.
— On entering the Junior study-hall one is struck by the beautiful floral decoration just above the prefects’ rostrum. It consists of a cross and anchor, w hich also represent the seal of the Congregation of Holy Cross. It was presented by Master J. R. Lawton, and is the work of his mother, who has great taste in decorative art. The Prefects feel very grateful for the gift.	.
—There have been many enquiries for the Scholastic Almanac of 1876, the first issued. As the Almanac for that year was stereotyped, numbers can still be furnished on application. A small number of Almanacs for 1877 are still on hand and for sale, at 25 cts. The three Almanacs, viz.: for 1876-7 and 8 make a very handsome volume when bound together, as we have them now before us.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1878 (published at the University of Notre Dame, lud.,) is one of the best Catholic Almanacs of the year. This publication has asserted and proved its right to continued existence. Henceforth it will be accepted as a usual-and welcome yearling. Prof. J. A. Lyons, the able compiler, has our congratulations. The Almanac is filled with useful and interesting matter. (For sale by The Pilot Publishing Co.)—Boston Pilot.
—We are glad to see that our article in regard to Parochial Schools continues to go the rounds. This time we find it in the columns of the Luxemburger Gazette, published in Dubuque, Iowa. Strange to say, it seems to find particular favor among our German Catholics, although coming from one who is to the maqor-born. Have our English-speaking Catholics and the English Catholic press no time to devote to its consideration? For or against,

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	315
gentlemen—as you deem best; as it is an important matter, we should like to see it argued, pro and con, if there is really anything that cau be said against the measure.
—The 14th and 15lh regular meetings of the St Stanislaus Philopatrian Society took place Jan. 4th and 7th. Officers to fill vacancies were elected as follows: 1st Vice-President, K. L- Scanlan; 2d Vice-President, W. J. McCarthy; Treasurer, A. Rielz; Rec. Secretary, J. A. Gibbons; Cor. Secretary, A. J. Burger; Librarian, F. T. Clarke; Censors, F’. Lang, J. W. McNellis and J. Barnes; Costumers, E. S. Walters, J. Kelly and J. Hafner; Sergeant-atarms, F. Pleins; Prompter, T. O’Hara; and Marshal, A. Heitkam. Declamations were given by Messrs. Rietz, Burger, Gibbons, Scanlon and Lang. Master Scanlan made the speech of office.
—Mr. M. B., a Senior student, has just found out that a telescope which he bought from B. Peter some four years ago, will, when placed in the dome of the College, draw the South Bend court-house clock so near to him that he can hear it tick. There are some who may feel inclined to doubt the veracity of this; but M. B. avers upon his honor that this Is true. Now if this be true, can we not very justly suppose that this long-argued question about the moon being inhabited will soon be decided? Certainly; for if it is inhabited the inhabitants must surely talk, and with a telescope such as M. B.’s, only on a larger scale, we could hear them. This is certainly the age of progress.
—Thanks to some kind friend in Washington, D. C., we have been favored with the fourth annual report of the President of the Carroll Institute. Judging from this report, the Institute is in a flourishing condition and is doing much good. Besides supporting a library and readingroom, the Association supports a free night-school for the youth of Washington who are unable to attend the parochial schools, and supplies Catholic soldiers and sailors with papers and magazines. Since the private soldier is unable with his slender pay to procure reading-matter, it is a deserving charity to aid by donations the Carroll Institute in supplying this reading matter. Mr. H. E. Woodward is the treasurer.
—An esteemed but critical Chicago friend has addressed to Prof. Lyons some remarks concerning his almanac, from which we select the following:
“ I observe that on the same page (page 60) you write of ‘ May the close of the year,’ etc. I am really surprised that a man of your attainments should make such a flagrant mistake. I am not aware that May was ever the close of the year, though it is difficult to be positive, seeing that the matter is very badly mixed—the tenth month, December, being now the twelfth. I do know, however, that a great many thousands of years must elapse ere the kids (Gemini) of May grow into the Capricornus of December.
“ P. S. I have just bethought me that as the proof-reader is my mortal enemy, and you are my dear friend, it is my duty to lay the blame on Ms head, and make him the scapegoat.”
Very judiciously, too. It was the proof-reader. In the original manuscript it stood : “ May the clothes of the year.” alluding, of course, to the appearance of vegetation in that month, when the earth is “ with verdure clad,” as they say. But the proof-reader, as usual, thought he knew all abou tit.
—We have received several letters concerning the article on “ Parish Schools,” all of which read something like the following which came to us from the West: “It is with the deepest interest I have read the article in your valuable Scholastic concerning parish schools. I am, and I believe everybody that cares a little about the wellfare of the Catholic schools, is fully in accordance with the views exhibited in the article in question. In my opinion it would not be so very difficult to form such a Board of Education. ***** At any rate, I am glad that the feeling which seems to exhibit everywhere through’ out the country concerning Catholic schools has found an expression, and I hope that the subject will be discussed and meet with the success it deserves. The German Catholic paper which is issued in this town will take the matter up, and so I hope it will be done everywhere. I beg pardon for taking the liberty of addressing you on htis subject; likewise for using the English language not
very correctly (lam not quite four years in this country), but I think this so important a subject that it is the duty of every man to raise his voice and try to help the ideas set forth in your article to be carried out.” .
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1878, compiled by Joseph A. Lyons and issued from the Scholastic Office, Notre Dame, Ind., has made its appearance, stocked, we may say, with choice selections, humorous and grave. While it can favorably compare in appearance and general make-up with anything of the kind we have ever seen, the Scholastic Almanac is in a manner unique, opening for itself a new path in its literary department, in which college fun and humor are brought in with excellent effect now and then, thus making it at the same time instructive and entertaining. The religious and astronomical calendars are full and carefully arranged, and the reading matter excellent. The latter is chiefly selections from that most recherche of college papers, The Notre Dame Scholastic, which would give ample matter tor nearly half a dozen such almanacs. An exceptionally good feature of this year’s Almanac is a series of descriptions of the months, in which our climate and the ' various seasons are admirably portrayed, and many erroneous ideas corrected—the whole done in a manner that makes the reader delighted with the writer and his views. Altogether, the Scholastic Almanac is both original and entertaining, and gives 25 cents, worth of choice reading matter such as can rarely be found. It is on sale for the compiler by the Scholastic Printing Co., Notre Dame, ind. —Ave Maria.
Farmers’ Papers.
There is a great difference between the farmers’ papers of to-day, and twenty-fire years ago. Then science and “book farming” was decried as tending only to useless expense in trying false theories; and, indeed, so it did, so poor was the so-called science of that time. But now the sciences pertaining to agriculture have become so systematized, and of such immediate practical benefit in their applications, that intelligent farmers everywhere are intensely eager to learn the teachings of science; they have become convinced that true “ science is knowledge, scientific is knowing: just that, and nothing less or more.” The first of agricultural journals to appreciate this want in its breadth was the Scientific Farmer, of Boston, Mass., which, as its name implies, is devoted to this branch of literature, and which the editors announce to be published “ in the interests of profitable agriculture,”—certainly a kind of agriculture needing development. Judging from its record thus far, it fully lives up to its intentions; and it has recently donned a handsome cover, and begun to illustrate the text With ks departments of Chemistry, Botany, and Horticulture, Dairy and Stock, Veterinary, Entomological, The Field, Conference Corner, and Miscellaneous—on Farm Practice, Rural Architecture, The Fanner in Politics, etc.,—all conducted on that idea of correctness whrch is to increase the farm profits, and lift Agricult ure to a higher social position,—it is indeed “A True Farmers’ Paper,” and is well suited to the wants of our progressive farmer readers. Its articles are written in a simple, straighttorward style, devoid of hard technical terms, and are easy reading to any intelligent farmer. There are few better uses to which an intelligent farmer can put a dollar, than to send for this Farmers' Magazine; as $1.00, or 27/100 of a cent a day, is all that it costs for a year. The publishers will send a specimen number and premium list for ten cents, or three postage stamps. Their address is, Scientific Farmer Co., Boston, Mass.
De Nomine Meo.
AD DIABOLUM.
My name is but a trifling thing,— Five letters small compose it;
And no dishonor doth it bring ■ To any one that knows it.
Then why this mad persistent strife
316
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
To spoil or mutilate it ? I can’t imagine, on my life, Why yon should so mis-state it.
Not long ago an Upstart rose
To literary notice, The tailor’s ticket on it shows, How very new his coat is;
It also shows, alas for me 1
A fault I cannot pardon, Where o is writ instead of e The c before to harden.
Soon after this an almanac
In Christmas’ glad vacation, • • Resolved to make of me a hack
And drive to desperation.
My penult letter it assailed—	'
That hardened c aforesaid—	,
It made it g and never quailed
Before the injured corset. .
Three letters only now remain
Unscathed and unperverted, And goodness knows how long the stain From them can be averted.	’
Old Statius from his grave will rise
To help his poor descendant, And make you devils (blast your eyes!) Not quite so independent.
Yours truly,
The Last Stage of Insanity.
Roll of Honor. ;
[In the following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given sat! slaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
. SENIOR DEPABTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, T. Barry, M. W. Bannon, T. Barrett, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, I. Chatterton, B. J. Claggett, J. Carroll, Wm.'Cannon, F. Cannon, A. Conger, P. Cruper, W. L. Dechant, J. M. Devine, E. Dempsey, A. Dorion, C. K. De Vries, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, J. J. Fitzgerald, F. Fulkerson, A. Ginz, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, G. Goble, A. Hertzog, J. J. Houck, M. Hogan, F. Hoffman, J. Hoffman, T. Hale, A. J. Hettinger, J. Q.-Johnson, F. Keller, J. Kuebel, J. Krost, J. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. Murphy, F. C. Mueller, E. Maley, J. D. Montgomery, H. Ma-guiie, J. J. McEniry, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, O. McKone, J. H. McConlogue, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, W. Ohl. man, E. Poor, J. Pembroke, J. J. Quiun, J. P. Quinn, M. J-Regan, E. W. Robinson, J. Rogers, J. Rice, J. Rabbitt, S. T. Spalding, T. S. Summers, G. Saxinger, J. J. Shugrue, C. L. Stuckey, J. 8. Smith, G. Williams, F. Williams, F. Walter, F. Winkler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Abrahams, -J. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, J. A. Burger, J. M. Byrne, J. Berteling, C. Brinkman, H.' E. Canoil, T. F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, G. P. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, J. Cassard, L. Garceau, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, J. L. Healy, J. E. Halloran, A. Hamilton, J. Halle, G. L. Itten-bach, J. B. Ittenbach, C. E. Johnson, R. C. Johnson, R. E. Keenan, F. W. Lang, J. Lumley, J. L. Lemarie, A. A. Miller, T. E. Nelson, H. Newmark, F. T. Pleins, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, A. Sievers, E. S. Walters, F. Weisert.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. P. Nelson, A. Coghlin, J. Scanlan, M. McDevitt, G. Lambin, J. A. Bushey, G. Rhodius, W. A. Coghlin, Jos. Courtney, J. A. Seeger, W. J. Coolbaugti J. Inderrieden, F. Gaffney, A. Hartrath, R. Costello, G. Knight, P. Fitzgerald, C. Garrick, Jos. Inderrieden, H. Kitz, C. Long, C. Crowe, J. Crowe, S. Bushey, C. Bushey, E. Herzog, E. Esiner, J. Devine, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, T. O’Neill, C. Welty, C. McGrath.	.
Class Honors.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. P. Nelson, A. Coghlin, J. Scanlan, W. McDevitt, W. A. Coghlin, J. Courtney, Jos. Courtney, W. J. Coolbaugh, J. Inderrieden, N. Nelson, F. Gaffney, A. Hartrath, R. Costello, C. McGrath, C. Carrick, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Crowe, H. Kitz, C. Long, Herzog, E. Herzog, T. O’Neill,- S. Bushy, C. Bushy, J. Devine, F. Farrelly, C. Bushey, P. Fitzgerald, E. Esmer, J. McGrath.

. —Will Rev. Father L’Etourneau, C. S. C, accept the warm acknowledgments of the Children of Mary for his kind consideration in furnishing them with the “blessed cake” of Epiphany? The Prefect called the Association together, and all enjoyed the’“ Epiphany Feast” in the Confraternity-room.
—The Juniors are inclined to feel slighted, since their study-hall has not been ranked among the fine apartments of the Academy. This must be set down as an oversight, for the lovely Mater Admirabilis and the pictures of this study-hall, together with the numerous well-kept houseplants, render it a very beautiful room.
—A day or two before his departure, Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General, C. S. C., blessed the beautiful statue of Our Lady of Lourdes, which has been placed at the northern extremity of the dormitory occupied by the Children of Mary. The statue is thrown into exquisite relief by the rich blue drapery of the arch forming the oratory.
—The “Art Medal,” a rare piece of workmanship, arrived as a New Year’s gift to Mother Superior. It is whispered that a chefd'oeuvre is in progress, by which St. Luke’s Studio will endeavor to prove to Dr. J. M. Toner, of Washington city, how highly his elegant gift is esteemed. A new ardor to reach the highest standard of excellence in art will be enkindled in view of this magnificent reward, the “ Toner Art Medal.” ’
—The Chapel of Loreto is at present undergoing repairs. Mrs. Charles L. Piquette, of Detroit, has generously donated a handsome set of diamonds for the purpose of defraying the expenses. The set,’consisting of ear-riugs and a finger ring,is valued at about five hundred dollars. They are solitaire diamonds. The Children of Mary are the rightful possessors of the House of Loreto at St. Mary’s, and though now scattered far and near, will be interested most warmly in whatever appertains to this sanctuary. The diamonds presented by -Mrs. P.quette are to be disposed of by lottery, at one dollar per chance. The Children of Mary of former years will be glad to embrace the opportunity of making a little offering of gratitude to the holy place where they have received so many spiritual favors, and will, no doubt, warmly co-operate with the generous lady from Detroit, while they stand the chance of securing a set of .valuable diamonds.	’
—The banners which now adorn the Chapel are worthy of more than ordinary notice. They were brought by Mother Superior from France two years ago, and are remarkable for their beauty and their devotional character. There are fifteen banners, representing the filteen Mysteries of the Rosary, beautifully painted on a while ground. The Joyful Mysteries are ornamented in blue and gold, the Sorrowful in purple and gold, and the Glorious simply in gold. There are twelve banners of the Holy Eucharist, ten of the Sacred Heart, thirty, in rose-color and gold, of the Infant Jesus, and forty of the Angel Guardian. Banners with the entire “ Litany of Loreto,” most beautifully illustrated, are also of the number in the chapel; also the Papal escutcheon on a single banner; likewise two large banners of the Angel Guardian, and many others with representations of favorite devotions, as Our Lady of La Salette, Our Lady of Lourdes, the Immaculate Conception, Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, etc., etc.
LANGUAGES.	.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Latin Class—Miss J. Cooney. .
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Plattenburg. HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Misses B. Wilson, T. Pleins, C. Silverthorne, L. Kirchner, N. Keenan, M. Spier, N. Galen, G. Welch, A. Gordon, A. Kirchner, W. Dudley, M. Brown, K. Hackett, J. Cooney, P. Gaynor, M. Mullen, M. Danaher, K. Reardon, M. Way, B. Thompson, L. French, L. Otto, N. Hackett, A.-Thomas, M. Ewing, S. Rhein-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
317
boldt, C. Boyce, M. Plattenburg, L. Schwass, Miss Laub er. M. Mulligan, E. Tighe, A. McKinnis, L. Chilton, M. Cox, L. Ellis, L. Wood, E. Mulligan, M. McFadden.
Organ—Miss W. Dudley.
Guitar—Miss B. Anderson.
Harmony—Misses L. Kirchner, Wilson, T. Pleins.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
3d Class—Miss S. Rheinboldt.
Promoted to the 3d Class—Miss G. Welch.	'
4th Class—Misses M. Plattenburg, A. Kirchner.
5th Class—Misses L. French, E. Mulligan.	‘ ■
FAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses L. Kirchner. S. Moran, P. Gaynor.
4th Class—Misses M. Spier, G. Welch. ’
‘	Tablet of Honor
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, P. Gaynor, M. Ewing, S. Moran, C. Boyce, W. Dudley, C. Silverthorne. B. Thompson, M. Way, M. Danaher, G. Welch, K. Reordan, L. Otto, M. Brown, T. Pieins, M. Wagner, M. Plattenburg, K. Hackett, L. Schwass. M. Galen, M. Sullivan, S. Rheinboldt, M. Hayes, M.Mullen, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Spier, B. Wilson, N. Keenan, L. Kirchner, L. Tighe, A. Thomas, K. Lloyd.
’GREENBACKS
FOR BOR’D HOLDERS!
GREENBACKS
FOR GOLD GAMBLERS!
GREENBACKS -
•	FOR NATIONAL BANKERS!
GREENBACKS
FOR THE PEOPLE!
GREENBACKS
FOR ALL PURPOSES!
For which money is used interchangable at par with Gold and Silver, in a sufficient quantity as to promote industry,, invite immigration, and develop the resources ofthe country, is what the
CINCINNATI ENQUIRER
Claims is the only remedy for the ills brought upon the country by Legislation and Laws, enacted for the benefit of a Monied Class, and the oppression of Labor and Industry.
Government Credit sustains our Bonds for the benefit of the wealthy, let the same Credit
. Sustain Greenbacks
For the benefit of the People who sustain the Government.
IJaily Er	Irer, -per year, - $13.00
Weekly Enquirer, “	-	-	1.15
Free of Postage.
Agents wanted.
Send for specimen copies.
FAHAN & McLEAN, Publishers,
CINCINNATI, O.
TYPE FOUNDERS, CHICAGO*
Have the largest and most complete Type ypirnflTy in the West. All Type cast from best quality of metal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type mauu-facturedby Marder, Luse & Co., and which has been in constant - use for over seven years,	jan 5-3m
THE SUN.
1878.	NEW YOBK.	1878.
As the time approaches for the renewal of subscriptions, THE SUN would remind its friends and wellwishers everywhere, that t is agai n a candidate for their consideration and support. Upon its record for the past ten years it relies for a continuance ofthe hearty sympathy and generous co-operation which have hitherto been extended to it from every quarter of the Union.
The Uaily Sun is a four-page sheet of 28 columns, price by mail, post paid, 55 cents a month, or $6.50 per year.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is an eight-page sheet of 56 columns. While giving the news of the day, it also contains a large amount of literary and-miscellaneous matter specially prepared for it. The Sunday Sun has met with great success. Post paid, $1,20 a year.
Tile Weekly Sun. •
Who does not know The Weekly Sun ? It circulates throughout the United States, the Canadas, and beyond. Ninety thonsand families greet its welcome pages weekly, and regard it in the light of guide, counsellor, and friend. Its news, editorial, agricultural, and literary departments make it essentially a journal for the family and the fireside. Terms: One Dollar a year, post paid. This price, quality considered, makes it the cheapest news-paper published. For clubs of ten, with §10 cash, we will send an extra copy free. Address
PUBLISHER OF THE SUN, New York City.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, 187'7. -
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Pera and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo-	 Ar. Pera		4.35 P. M 7.10 “ 8.10 “	12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ 10.47 “
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte	 “ Michigan City		8.25 P. 31. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.		11.10 A.,31. 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. fi. , Ft. W.,Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv- Indianapolis. - - -“ Kokomo	 Ar. Pera		5.30 P. 31. 2.55 “ 1.50 “	4.10 A. M. 1.50 “ 12.38 “	9.10 A. 31. 6.33	“ 5.37	“
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte	 “ Michigan City ..	1.27 P. 31. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. 31.	12.33 A. 31. 10.25 P. 31. - 8.50 “ 8.05 “	
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Mat.ott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
SHICKEY,
PROFIUETOB OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy's, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
'	F. SBICKEY.
s
318
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and ail points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo-, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, D ., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and-Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
A NEW DRAMA.
“THE UPSTART;”
A Comedy in Three Acts, adapted from the French of
Moliere’s	.
LE BOURGEOIS GENTILHOMME,
and arranged for Male Characters only,
By A. J. .STAGE; and. Edited, bv
JOSEPH A. LYONS.
This play is dedicated to the Members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association,—the former, present and yet to be.
Price 25 Cents.
“ The Upstart ” has been played at Notre Dame a number of times. Parts in this drama have been taken by Messrs. Berdel, Dodge, Ashton, Roberts, Foote, Dwyer, Wile, Foley, W. Dodge, Clarke, Mahony, Staley, Dum, Hutchings, Cochrane, Spillard, Nash, McHugh, Brown, Reilly, McGinnis, McOsker, Rumely, Goodhue, Shanks, Hunt and others. Hence
Every Member of the St. Cecilia Philomathean
Association,
PAST AND PRESENT,
should procure a copy.	'
Sent post free on receipt of price.
•	P. F0Z, Publisher,
14 SOUTH FIFTH ST.,
ST. LOUIS, no.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	319
Attornevs at Law.
BROWN HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER dt MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN (D. J. Hogan, of *741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph Sts., Chicago, 111.
JOHN E. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a’ Law, No'ary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MCBRIDE «fc MILL ARD (Jas E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WITjTjT A 3VI J. CL 4 HKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A. O’REILLY—of ’69 —Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN" D. McCORMICK-of '73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Bailway
TimeTable-Noy. 11. 1877.
	♦MaH	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson.... Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 28 “ 10 45 “ 12 35 p.m 3 45 “ 6 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 40 p.m 4 05 “• 6 30 “	3 45 p.m 6 20 “ 8 14 “ 10 00 “ - 5 20 a.m	5 15 p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m 11 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 fO “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson.... “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago....	7 00 a.m 10 20 ” 115 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	4 00 a.m 6 10 “ 7 50 “ 10 30 “	9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 •• 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 2 25 a m 12 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
IViles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 852 •	638 ” Ar. Niles—	9 25 “	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. ’ tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.	"
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR fof’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Speciil attention given to Hydraulic Engineering. .
ARTHUR J. st ACE [of *64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
'Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COETJMJBIAlV.pnb’iBhed weeklv at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, 52 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AVE MARIA, a Catholic journa’ devoted to the Blessed Virgin, punished every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price. $2.50.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
THE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop.,Niles,Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON" HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
FLYNN At HISGEN Plain and Fancy Book Binders, Kalamazoo, Midi.
Visiting Cards.
0£^ CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents,	E, A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “ Collections of Minerals.”	,
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of al] the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spee’es number indicates the place of any mineral in the tab’e of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenie-t location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana's species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	10O inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments		$ 50	$1	$1 50	$ 1	$ 2	$ 3
Students’ size, larger		1 50	3	6	5	10	25
Amateur's size,2U in. x 1U...				10	25	50
High School or Acad. size,2Ux3M in.shelf specimens				25	50	10o
College size, 3^x6 in., shelf specimens ....			...	500	100	3<0
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, Iff. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Scienc Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of natural Brit-■ ences ana of the American Museum of natural
History, Central Park, New York.
320
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday .JSept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a m., Chicago and St. Lonis Express, over Mam Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.	.	.
7 1.6 pm. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 6 52 am. .
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 210 am: Cleveland, 7 I5a m; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 85 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.	„	_ .
5 03 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago. 7 40 p m.
8 03a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chi cago 11 10 a. m.
8 43 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY. Gent Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. Bl. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div, Chicago.
CHARLES-PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.	'
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	'.Leave	11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A M.
Rochester,			12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Ainft.nr.ft*..............	3 10 A.M.	12 50 p.m.	535 “	11.00 “
Orrville,		446 "	230 “	7.12 “	12 55 p
Mansfield, ............	7.00 “	440 “	920 “	311 “
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,				9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,		10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,		1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,..		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Par. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago			9.10 P.M.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
Plvmouth			2.46 a.m.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,	............		8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Foresk 				10.10 “	5.20 “	248 “	
Crestline,....	... Arrive	1L45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline		....Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfipld			12.35 “	7.44 “	500 “	6 55 “
Orrville,...............		2.30 “	9.38 “	710 “	915 “
Alliance,			4.05 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	1120 “
Rot»hest^>r. 	 .		6.22 “	1.21 A.xr.	11 06 “	
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and. 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
’	r. a. imms, g. p. & I. a.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS:
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses,	•
Days of Obligation, etc., Groundhoggery, Calendars, The Months—description, etc.,
January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December, The Two Rules,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women, Pio Nono, A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q, In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer. The Duty of our Young
Men,
Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ?
Sonnet,
Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella, Aerolites.
Address,
Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
J. A. LIONS, -
Notre Dame, Ind.; or,
The Scholastic Printing Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
SAMUEL TTYYTLLLTS,
MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IX
AMATEUR TOOLS,
" FOR
Amateurs, Boys and Girls.
Turning Lathes,	Scroll Saws,
Hand Saws,	Saw Blades, ‘
Fancy Woods,	New and Handsome
Small Engine Castings, designs for BraceSmall Tools of all Kinds, lets, etc.
Also, Publisher of
The Amateur Mechanic,
A Monthly Journal of Practical Information for Amateurs, Boys and Girls. 50 Cents per Annum.	.
Send Stamp for sample Copy. Address
SAMUEL HARRIS,
decw 1-5 South Canal Street, Chicago, III.