
Notre Dame Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
the Students.
Disce qxtasi semper victuims; vive qviasi eras moriturus.
Volume IX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, AUGU8T 28, 1875.	Number 1.
There Comes a Time.
\ -------------------------------------
[The following poem, by an anonymous author, has been going the rounds of the press at different times during the past fifteen years.]
There comes a time when we grow old, And like a sunset down the sea
Slope gradual and the night-wind cold Conies whispering sad and chillingly;
A	And locks are gray
'	As winter’s day,
And eyes of saddest blue behold . The leaves all weary drift away, And lips of hided coral say,
There comes a time when we grow old.
There conies a time when joyous hearts,
/	Which leaped as leap the laughing maid,
»	Are dead to all save memory,
/	As prisoner in his dungeon chain ;
V	And dawn of day
Hath passed away,
The moon hath into darkness rolled, And by the embers warm and gray,
I hear a voice in whisper say,
,	There comes a time when we grow old.
5	' There comes a time when manhood’s prime
Is shrouded in the midst of years, And beauty, fading like a dream,
Hath passed away in silent tears;
And then how dark I But oh! the spark
‘	That kindled youth to hues of gold,	•
,•	Still burns with dear and steady ray,
* ■'	And fond affections lingering, say,
There comes a time when we grow old.
There comes a time when laughing spring And golden summer cease to be, ■	And we put on the autumn robe,
To tread the last declivity.
i	But on the slope,
\ •,	With rosy hope,
; (	Beyond the sunset we behold
(	Another dawn, with fairer light,
!	While watchers whisper through the night,
There comes a time when we grow old.
t	Aerostation.
? ‘ Nearly a century ago, a new era inagurated itself into । the history of science by a discovery not equalled before nor since; never has the genius of man won a triumph which at first blush seemed more glorious.
Imagination (says a writer, referring to the discovery) j intoxicated with past successes, could descry no limit to k
1
human power; the gates of the infinite seemed to be swinging back before man’s advancing step, and this last was believed to be the greatest of his achievements. In no domain of human knowledge do we see man so ambitious as in the mathematical and physical sciences. Not contented with having subjected the earth to their power; having made the waves of the sea stoop in submission under the keels of their ships; having caught the lightning of heaven and made it subservient to the ordinary purposes of life, the genius of man undertook to conquer the regions of the air. Up to this time Scientists satiated their longing thirst for knowledge in various fields; they passed down through the earth’s stony volume and turned over the well-written pages of her history; the fiery tribes of the watery element were no longer strangers; nay, even the animalcules did not escape their notice, aided by the microscope; in the field of botany they were likewise at home, nor were they ignorant of the wild herds that roam the forest. The distinction at this moment between man and the lower order of animals is vividly sketched in the following lines:
“ Brutes find out where their talents lie—
A bear will not attempt to fiy;
A foundered horse will oft debate, Before he tries a five-barred gate;	‘
A dog by instinct turns aside Who sees the ditch too deep and wide; But man we find the only creature Who, led by folly, combats nature;
Who, when she loudly cries; forbear, With obstinacy fixes there;
And when his genius least inclines, Absurdly lends his whole designs.”
He looked around; he could not forbear; he sighed like the ambitious Alexander—for a different reason, however— he sighed because there was another world to conquer, but the enemy seemed invincible. He knew too well that term firms was his home, but he longed for something novel, he longed to soar up towards that beautiful diamond-studded dome. But how was he to accomplish this overwhelming design ?
Darius Green, in his simple way, thought: “Birds can fly, and why can’t I?” The poet tells us how well he succeeded. By referring to the history of ballooning we learn that poor Darius had friends. Classic mythology informs us of Dtcdalus, who escaping with his son Icarus from the anger of Minos in the Isle of Crete, saved himself by the aid of wings. These wings it appears were soldered with wax, and Icarus, flying too high, was struck by a ray of the sun which melted the wax. The youth fell into the sea, which from him derived its name of Icarian—but this is a myth. In ancient history we note
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a certain Archytas of Farentum, who is said to have launched into the air the first flying stag, and who according to Greek writers made a pigeon of wood, which flew, but which could not raise itself again after having fallen.
All attempts, thus far, to fly in the air were useless, and were lampooned, burlesqued on the stage, and pursued with the mockery of the public. And the grand expectations of not merely having the blue sky above us, not merely the terrestrial atmosphere; but even the vast spaces through which the worlds move, as the sea of the balloon, were as yet unrealized.
The scientific world now seemed to be overshadowed by the gloom of disappointment. In anticipation, the poet delighted himself with bird’s-eye views of the scenery of strange countries; the physicist visited the laboratory in which the lightning and the meteors were manufactured; the geometrician beheld the plans of cities and the outlines ’ of kingdoms; the general discovered the position of the enemy or rained shells on the besieged town; the police beheld a new mode in which to carry on their secret service. But now in a moment their anticipations were all abandoned, and all their speculations were only the ■worthless fruits of a vivid imagination. But no! at this moment science was taken by the hand by one of her worthy sons, by one whose name is justly coupled with that of Columbus—I refer to Joseph Montgolfier.
This gentleman was born about the year 1762, at An-nonay, and was engaged during the greater part of his life in experimenting in the physical sciences with his brother Etienne. After being convinced by a number of experiments made in 1782-3 that a heat of 180° ratified the air and made it occupy a space of twice the extent it occupied before heated—or, in other words, that this degree of heat diminished the weight of air by one half—h e began to speculate on what might be the shape and the material of a structure which, being filled with air thus heated, would be able to raise itself from the earth in spite of the weight of its own covering. His first balloon was a small parallelepiped in icy thin taffeta, containing less than seventy cubic inches of air. He made it rise to the roof of his anartment • > and afterwards himself and his brother succeeded in performing the same experiment in the open air. Certain, then, of the new principle, they made a balloon of considerable size, containing more than 65 feet of heated air. This machine likewise rose, tore away the cords by which it was fastened, and mounting in the air to the height of from 200 to 300 feet, fell upon the neighboring hills after a considerable flight.
Success was now evident, and they set about to construct a very large and strong balloon for public exhibition. The work went on, and when the populace assembled for the exhibition on the 5th of June, 1783, they did so scoffingly, and to ridicule the Montgolfier brothers; such at least was the unfounded opinion. The smoke being prepared for the experiment, the machine, which at first seemed only a covering of cloth lined with paper, grew large, even under the eyes of the spectators, took consistence, assumed a beautiful form, stretched itself on all sides, and endeavored to escape. It was held down by strong arms, but when the signal was given it ascended on high with a rush and with such speed that in ten minutes it rose to the height of 1,000 fathoms. It then described a horizontal line of 7,200 feet, and as it had lost a considerable amount of gas it began to descend quietly. This first attempt, crowned
with success, secured for ever to the brothers Montgolfi e the glory of one of the most astonishing discoveries. When we reflect for a moment upon the numberless difficulties which such a bold attempt entailed—upon the bitter criticism to which it would have exposed its projectors had it failed through any accident, and upon the sums of money that must have been spent in carrying it out, we cannot but admire the .men who conceived the idea and carried it out to such a successful issue. How enthusiastic must have been the spectators on that occasion! what a happy defeat they experienced! There is in the simple act of an searial ascent something so bold and so astonishing that the human spirit cannot fail to be profoundly stirred by it. And if this is the feeling of men at the present day, when, after having been witnesses of ascents for nearly a century, they see men confiding themselves in a swinging car into the immensities of space, what must have been the astonishment of those who for the first time since the commencement of the world beheld one of their fellow-creatures rolling in space, without any assurance of safety than what his still dim perception of the laws of nature gave him ?
Why should we be astonished at the conduct of the old Marshal Villeroi, when he witnessed the ascent of Charles the physicist?—Falling on his knees, and with his eyes bathed in tears, he moaned out pitifully the words: “Yes, it is fixed! It is certain! They will find out the secret of avoiding death; but it will be after I am gone.”
Balloons inflated with hydrogen gas are almost the only ones in use at the present day. Scarcely ever is a Montgolfier sent up; nevertheless they are preferred by some aero nauts. The air voyager formerly had many difficulties to contend W’ith: the quantity of combustible material which he was bound to carry with him; the very little difference between the density of heated and cold air; the necessity of feeding the fire, and watching it without a moment’s cessation, rendered this sort of air-travelling subject to many dangers and difficulties. Recently Eugene Goddard has obviated a portion of this difficulty by fitting a chimney like that which is found of such incalculable service in the case of the day-lamps. Pure hydrogen is generally used in the inflation of balloons. Balloonists, however, content themselves with the gas which we burn in our streets aud houses on account of the convenience of obtaining it. The balloon is made of long strips of silk, sewn together and rendered air-tight by a coating of caoutchouc. A valve is fitted to the top, and by means of it the voyager can descend to the earth at pleasure, by allowing some quantity of the gas to escape. The car in which he sits is suspended to the balloon by a network which covers the whole structure. Sacks of sand are carried in this car as ballast, so that when descending if he sees that he is likely to be precipitated into the sea or a lake he throws over the sand, and his air-carriage being thus lightened, mounts again and travels away. to a more desirable resting-place. Improvements are continually being added, and at present ballooning is as common almost as swimming. The only thing that now seems.wanting is some means of steering; this will be the crowning improvement; when this will be effected is quite a question, and one to the answer of which all look with eagerness.
In conclusion, I would say that aerial navigation should be divided into two kinds—with balloons and without balloons. In the first case it is limited to the- study of aerial currents, and to the art of rising to those current
^><2- k b	'
v - 4	• 5
I S 7 ^~rl Cs>
Q O Q K n THE .NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	3
■which suit the direction of the voyage undertaken. The balloon is not the master of the atmosphere; on the contrary it is its powerless slave. In the second case the dis' eovery of Montgolfier is useless; and the question is, to find a new machine capable of flying in the air, and at the same time heavier than the air. Birds are without doubt the best model to study. But with what force shall we replace life? 'The' air-boat of Mr. Pline seems to us one of the best ideas: but the working of it presents many difficulties; let us .find a motive power, at once light and powerful, and we shall have conquered the empire of the air.	—	Richibucto.
Hans Christian Andersen.
On Wednesday, August the 4th, Hans Christian Andersen, the great Danish poet and novelist, died, in the 70th year of his age. His charming tales have been translated into the languages of all civilized nations, and have made his name a household word in almost every clime.
Andersen was born at Odensee, on the 2nd of April, 1805. His father was a shoemaker by trade, poor in circumstances; yet he appears to have been possessed of considerable literary taste and acquirements, and in the youth of Hans taught him to appreciate the beauty of such tales as the < “ Arabian Nights” and others of that class. Growing up in the town of his birth, young Andersen’s imagination • became very susceptible, and superstitious to a high degree. His education was limited to a knowledge of reading and writing, which he acquired at a charity school; but as he had an excellent memory he was at the tender age of nine years able to recite many of the national ballads of Denmark, and fragments of poetry and plays.
His father dying whilst he was quite young, he gained entrance into the the house of a widow lady, by whom he was engaged to read aloud to her family. Having had some tragedies given him tore-id, with that impetuosity so characteristic of youthful genius he determined to become a dramatic writer, and, following up this determination, he wrote a number of tragedies so filled with scenes of horrors and in such bombastic language as to bring upon him a storm of ridicule, wounding deeply his sensitive nature.
Leaving the house of the widow lady, he remained for a short while in a factory. While there, he entertained the workmen by singing and reciting for them songs, and extracts from the comedies of Holberg, in return for which he was subjected by them to ill-treatment. Leaving the factory, he led an inactive life at home, giving himself up to singing, and reading such works as chanced to fall in his way. As he possessed an agreeable voice and considerable dramatic taste, his mother was urged by her friends to send him to the theatre, but she resolved upon apprenticing him to a tailor. Prior to his apprenticeship, he went to Copenhagen to witness the performance of a play. He arrived in that city on the 10th day of September, 1819, with ten rix-dollars in his possession; and, having seen ' the play as he had desired, he made endeavors to procure an engagement at the theatre, but was refused by the managers on account of his ignorance and awkwardness, and forced through want to seek employment of a joiner.
He did not stay long with the joiner, and in a short while he was again a stranger in a large city, with neither friends nor. money. Having a good voice, he went to
Professor Siboni, director of the Royal Conservatory, who received him with kindness, and, hearing his voice, recognized his talents and had instructions given him in order to make of him a singer for the stage. His voice, however, which was then in its transition state, failed him, and at the end of five months he was advised by his teachers to return home and devote himself to learning a trade. This advice did not agree with Andersen’s wishes. He was ambitious. He was determined to become something greater than an ordinary journeyman, and applied to the poet Gulborg for assistance. Gulborg was to him a kind friend, and with his assistance Andersen struggled along for a year or two, either as a member of the theatrical corps or at his studies. By hard work he managed to overcome difficulties at which most of mankind would have become disheartened, placing his trust in Providence with childlike simplicity. During these years he wrote a number of tragedies, which were appreciated by Ohlen-schliiger and other literary men, but were rejected by the managers of the theatres.	'
About this time Councillor Collin was appointed director of the theatre. He was a man of very benevolent dispositions, very clearsighted, and anxious to encourage genius. He saw what young Andersen was capable of accomplishing, and caused him to be admitted in to one of the Government schools. This was the turning point in hisJife. Shortly afterwards he entered the Royal College at Copenhagen, and while pursuing his studies in that institution, he, in 1828, published his first work, “A journey on Foot to Amack,” which the public received with much favor, and caused him to be known to many of the most influential men in Copenhagen. His first volume was succeeded by some volumes of poems, which gave him a more extended reputation.
Through the influence of friends, a royal stipend was given to him, in order that he might travel, and in 183-3 he went to Italy. His impressions of that country are contained in the novel entitled the “Improvisatore.’’ This novel has been translated into all the languages of Europe; and standing as it does unrivalled as a picture of the scenery and manners of Southern Europe, is still read with pleasure. Many other novels were written by him, and several volumes of poems. He visited England in 1846, making there many warm personal friends, and on his return he wrote in the English language the “Two Baronesses,” one of his longest works.
The writings of Andersen are a reflection of his own disposition: they are replete with humor, aud marked by invention and the enthusiasm of the poet. But though a novelist and poet of superior order, it is as a writer of children’s stories in which he succeeded best. In this line, he is unrivalled. His stories have an inconceivable charm which has caused them to be read with delight by the children of every clime. It was but a few months ago that the children of America, in testimony of the pleasure which so many of them derived from his numerous fascinating tales, presented him with a token of their esteem.
In person Andersen was tall and ungainly, but had a countenance open and honest"; in conversation he was frank and unrestrained. Having in 1845 received a royal annuity, he passed the last years of his life in comfortable circumstances. A writer ia “ Temple B tr"—a London Magazine —in an article published before his death, says: “Andersen is a genial, amiable man, aud in the simpleness of his heart he judges all men from his own standard. I was told he
4	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is a kind, good friend to all who seek his advise or help; and that he is so much loved and respected that he rarely eats a dozen dinners at his own home—a suite of rooms in the best part of Copenhagen—in the course of the year. Children worship him, and often seize upon him, climb on his knee, hang to his arms, and entreat to be told, if ‘ only one ’ story, for he never can refuse the coaxing tone of the little ones. ‘Do, dear Andersen.’ Andersen must be 70 years of age now. He stoops much when walking, but his hair is not very gray, nor is the thin, slight beard he wears under his smooth-shaven chin. His eyes are small, but bright and good-humored, and his forehead remarkably high; and although he is by no means a handsome man, yet his pleasing, winsome manners and genial smile unconsciously prepossess one at first appearance. His mornings he devotes to writing, but he would often come and join us in the veranda, and read to us, as we worked, the outline of a new story, or a fresh idea about an old one. Like many men of genius, Andersen has his peculiarities, one of which is that at table he likes to be served first; and such is the respect in which he is held in his own country, that in private life all give way to this fancy, and even ladies humor him, at the expenseof their own time-honored rights. To servants and dependants he is ever kind and considerate, and several times during my stay at Petershoi I noticed him standing in the kitchen while the cooking was going forward, reading to the maids with as much feeling and interest as he did to the ladies in the drawing-room.”
Philosophy.
The word philosophy has had a variety of acceptations, although all pervaded by the one idea of employing the human understanding in search of knowledge and certainty It always implies this effort in a remarkable degree, such as only few persons in any age have ever been able to sustain. The pursuit of knowledge had to become an end in itself, for mere improvement in practice would not at first have been a sufficient motive for men to undergo the labors of scientific inquiry. Indeed this improvement was not at all apparent as a consequence of the earliest efforts of speculation. As one celebrated example, the investigation of the properties of the sections of the cone—the ellipse, parabola, and hyperbola—was without any practical use for nearly two thousand years. As may be readily supposed, the precise aim of philosophy, the statement of what constitutes its end, has varied with the advancement of its study. In modern times the pursuit of truth has taken a well-defined form, expressed by the name of science. But in ancient times this operation was a mixture of speculation, practice and sentiment—of legitimate inquiry, with aspirations after the unattainable; and hence the word “philosophy ” in its modern acceptation often refers to the sub-jects that have not as yet adopted the strict scientific form In this view, science is the goal and the grave of-philos ophy. It is chiefly with reference to morals, metaphysics' and the human mind generally, that the term is still re’ tained. The characters that distinguish the highest form of truth are Generality and Certainty, or precision; and in proportion as a subject has advanced in these respects it might be said to have become philosophical, but we now prefer the word scientific.
The theoretical foundations of a practical subject, as
’ grammar, are sometimes called the philosophy of it. Hence we have the philosophy of zoology or of history, and a philosophical naturalist or historian. Again, after definite branches of knowledge have taken a scientific shape, and have been reckoned as distinct “ sciences,” the general principles and views that are supposed to run through the whole are sometimes called “ philosophy.”
By philosophy we mean the knowledge of the reasons of things in apposition to history, which is the bare knowledge of facts: or to mathematics, which is the knowledge of the quantity of things or their measures.
History furnishes matter, principles and practical examinations, and mathematics complete the evidence. Philosophy being the knowledge of the reasons of things, all arts must have their own peculiar philosophy, which constitutes their theory; not only law and physics, but the lowest and most abject arts are not destitute of their reasons which might usefully employ the time of study, and the advantages resulting from this kind of employment has been amply manifested in the discoveries made in modern times.
One great obstacle to the progress of arts and sciences is the neglect of practice in speculative men, and the ignorance and contempt of theory in mere practical men. What chimeras and absurditites the neglect of experience and practice has produced, need not be mentioned; the mischief arising from a neglected theory is not so obvious; yet it certainly retards the progress of art. All invention or improvement must be either casual or rational, including analogy or inferences from similiar cases under the term rational. Now, although the foundations of art were often owing to some casual discovery, as gunpowder, or the loadstone, yet this is not to be trusted to alone. Improvements do not always flow from this source, but rather from the reflections of artists; and, if these reflections were rendered more distinct, more communicable, and easier to be retained by the proper use of signs and other philosophical helps, great advantages might be expected, it being certain that philosophical knowledge is more extensive and surer in application, and besides gives a pleasure to the mind not to be expected from what is merely historical.
It is to be observed that the bare intelligence and memory of philosophical propositions, without any ability to demonstrate them, is not philosophy, but only history. However, where such propositions are determinate and true, they may be usefully applied in practice even by those who are ignorant of their demonstrations.
Of this we see daily instances in the rules of Arithmetic Practical Geometry, and Navigation; the reasons of which are often not understood by those who practice them even with success. And this success in the application produces a conviction of mind which is a kind of medium between philosophical, or scientifical, and historical knowledge. We have said that philosophy is the knowledge of the reasons of things. It may be asked, what are the reasons of things, or what is the explanation of phenomena or facts ? An ingenious author tells us that the explication consists only in showing the conformity any particular phenomenon has to the general laws of nature; or, which is the same thing, in discovering the uniformity there is in the production of natural objects. This he thinks evident to any one who pays attention to the several instances in which philosophers pretend to account for appearances. By a diligent observation of the phenomena within our view, we may discover the general laws of nature, and from thence deduce, though not demonstrate, other phenomena; all productions
I 4 4 4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5
F
of this kind depending on a supposition that the Author of Nature always operates uniformly, and the constant observation of those rules we take for principles, which .ws cannot evidently know.
If we take a view of the several phenomena, and compare them together, we may observe some likeness and conformity between them. For example in the falling of a stone to the ground, in the rising of the sea towards the moon, in adhesion and crystallization, there is something alike—namely, a union or mutual approach of bodies: so that any one of these, or the like phenomena, may not seem strange or surprising to a man who has wisely observed and compared the effects of nature; for that only is thought so which is uncommon, or a thing by itself, and out of the ordinary course of our observation. That bodies should tend towards the earth as a centre is not thought strange, because it is what we perceive every moment of our lives; that they should have a like gravitation towards the moon, may seem odd and unaccountable to most men, because it is discerned only in the tides; but a philosopher, whose thoughts take in a larger compass of nature, having observed a certain similitude of appearances, as well in the heavens as the earth, shows that innumerable bodies have a mutual tendency towards each other, and he denotes by the general name of attraction, whatever can be reduced to that he thinks justly accounted for. Thus he explains the tides by the attraction of the terraqueous globe towards the moon, which to him does not appear odd or anomalous, but only a particular example of a general rule or law of nature.
If, therefore, we consider the difference there is between natural philosophers and other men with regard to their knowledge of phenomena, we shall find it consists not in a more exact knowledge of the efficient cause that produces them, but only in a greater degree of comprehension, whereby analogies, harmonies, and agreements are descried in the works of nature, and the particular effects explained, that is, reduced to general rules. These rules, grounded on the analogy and uniformity observed in the production of natural effects, are more agreeable, and sought after by the mind, because they extend our prospect beyond what is present and near us, and enable us to make probable conjectures concerning things that may have happened at great distances of time and place as well as to predict things to come; which sort of endeavor towards omniscience is much affected by the mind.	L. 0.
Mother.
Our Mother! Search where we may, never can there be found a sweeter, holier title; one more adapted to stir up all the good and noble qualities of a man’s soul. What is the peculiar charm which renders it so fascinating? It is indescribable. It is a something intangible, yet acknowledged and felt by all who have any sense of nobility in their natures. Nothing ennobles a man, young or old, more than the love and respect he bears his mother. Such a man may forget his duty to his God and to his fellow-man, but this love for his mother will always exercise a salutary influence over him, and will eventually recall him to the performance of his neglected duties. ’Tis the mother” pleading voice, breaking in sorrowful accents on the ear of the drunkard, which,when all other meanshave failed,reclaims him and lifts him up from the depths of vice into
which he has sunk. That voice awakens recollections of the time when, kneeling at his mother’s side, he repeated after her, in lisping but fervent accents, the prayers long since forgotten.
The picture of his innocent childhood days, when he knew not sin, but lifted his feeble voice with confidence to his Maker—this is the picture which now floats through his disordered mind. The pleading voice rouses his dormant faculties; he resolves once more to be a man, and lead the 1 ife of the j ust. This is no fanciful picture, it is an every day occurrence. How great, then, is the influence of the mother; how great her mission! She holds, by virtue of her office, the key of the soul. She it is who extracts the baser metals and stamps the coin of character with the seal of virtue. She ministered to our childish necessities, smoothed our pillows in the hour of sickness, and soothed our mind in the time of trouble—ever displaying that deepdeathless love which can be found nowhere in this cold selfish world save in a mother’s breast.	.	.
Then, what return can we make for all her gentle care? We can make no adequate return, but we can and should show that appreciation which is best expressed by an unchangeable and never-ceasing love of her to whom we owe so much. It seems that our American youth have an idea that they are discharged from all obligations or obedience when they become of age. They seem to feel ashamed of being “ tied to their mother’s apron-strings.” Boys, you have made a mistake. Nothing raises a young man more in the estimation of the world than a chivalrous bearing towards his mother. He should not content himself with a merely dutiful affection; but let him show to every one that he is fairly in love with her. Nothing reflects more honor on a woman than this second love, this devotion of her son. No boy should be ashamed to love his mother; it is a love pure, noble and honorable in the highest sense of the word. Then, boys, let us love our mothers, and do all in our power to make their old age a pleasure and a delight to them. Let us endeavor to pay by delicate attention and unceasing love the debt incurred when we were weak and unable to aid ourselves. Such should be the aim of al-children; it will be a source of honor and happiness both to them and to those whom they honor. No boy will come to a bad end who starts out in life by falling in love with his mother.	Earnest.
Art, Music and Idterature.
—Mr. Hepworth Dixon’s new book is now finished, and will be out in the autumn.
—Cardinal Silvestri has made a present to the Municipality of Padua of Petrarch’s house at Arqua.
—Sanford R. Gifford, the landscape painter, and Henry K Brown, the sculptor, are rusticating in the Adirondacks.
—Mr. Arnold discourses on the subject of “ Lord Bute, the Premier,” in the current number of the Aew Quarterly Magazine.
—The New York Metropolitan Museum has two origna works of Hogarth in the loan exhibition, a portrait of Mrs Hogarth, and one of her father, Sir James Thornhill.
—Signor Marchetti, the composer of “Ruy Blas,” is writing another work, “Don Giovanni d’Austria.” If he can approach at all the Don Giovanni of Spain, the Italian composer will be indeed fortunate.
—A cast of Rinehart’s “ Clytie” has lately been placed in the Hall of Sculpture of the Corcoran Gallery at Washington, and excites the liveliest interest. It is thought to be a successful rival of Powers’ “ Greek Slave.”
6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^-Signora Marianna, the Roman sculptress, is modelling a beautiful Sappho, which she intends exhibiting at the Centennial in Philadelphia. If Italy does not send any products, this statue is to come with the Swiss representation.	' .
—Mr. Anthony Trollope, in his absence from England, is writing a series of letters, which are printed simultaneously in different newspapers in the United Kingdom. One of these letters, headed “From Ceylon,” has just been published.
—A colossal piece of sculpture, representing “ The Crucifixion,” by Prof. Halbig, of Munich, is to be erected in the Village of Oberammergau during the coming antumn. The work was a commission from the King of Bavaria, and is said to be very grand, both in design and execution.
—As the New York Academy of Design has postponed the opening of its schools until December, an “ Art Students’ League ” has been formed to study drawing, composition, perspective, etc., under Prof. Wilmarth, on the principle of the Parisian ateliers. Active operations to begin Sept. 15.
—The Trustees of the National Portrait Gallery acquired at the sales of Mr. Pickergill’s possessions four desirable English portraits, those of George Stephenson, William Godwin, Hannah More, and Jeremy Bentham. These works will shortly be added to the gallery in South Kensington.
—T. L. Rowbotham, the well-known artist and member of the English Institute of Painters in Water-Colors, died in London on the 30th of June, aged 52 years. Mr. Row-botham’s works are well known, a large number of them having been distributed through auction sales during the past two years.
—An interesting discovery of Irish MSS. of the time of St Columba has been made at Milan, including a part of a glossary of the Irish language. These once formed part of the library of the Monastery at Bobbio, and, w’ith others, were placed by St. Charles Borromeo in the Ambrosian Library at Milan.
—The Editors of the Catholic World announce that in the October number of that Magazine they will begin the publication of a new serial story entitled “Sir Thomas More : A Historical Romance.” As the October number begins the twenty-second volume of this excellent monthly it would be well for persons to subscribe for it from that month.
—A festival was preparing in Ghent for the 25th and 26th July. First day, “ Jubilant Overture,” by Hansenns, and Haydn’s “ Seasons. ” Second day, cantata “ De Schelde,” by Pierre Benoet, that by Gevaert, called “Jacob van Artevelde,” another new cantata by Adolphe Samuel, a concerto by Vieuxtemps, performed by M. Wieniawski. The orchestra and chorus number 500 executants.
—The grandest musical event that ever transpired in Dayton, Ohio, took place at Emmanuel Church on the morning of the 18th, at 8 o’clock, being the singing of Palestrina’s Mass for the first time it has ever been sung on this continent. This grand Mass was rendered by 144 first-class voices, from all parts of the Union, under the direction of Prof. Singenberger, of Milwaukee, and was listened to with delight by more than 5,000 people.—Chicago Times.
—Prof. Gregori, of the University of Notre Dame, has made arrangements with the managers of the Industrial Exhibition, Chicago, by which he is given a room adjoining the Art Gallery in which he will exhibit a number of his paintings. We understand that he will exhibit his portrait of Pope Pius the Ninth (recently purchased by the University), portraits of Very Rev. E. Sorin and Hon. Judge Stanfield, and a fancy picture called “the Italian Girl.”
—The subscription for a monument to Auber will close at the end of the month. M. Ambroise Thomas is President of the Committee. The sum already obtained is said to be very satisfactory, though the amount is not stated. The list of subscriptions numbers 254 ladie=, gentlemen, noblemen, musical firms, journals, and ccrdes. Mme. Adelina Patti, Mlle. Carlotta Patti, Messrs. Boosey, Offenbach,
Lecocq, Gounod, and Mme. Meyerbeer are among the subscribers.	•
—Hugh Miller’s son has just appeared as an author, and in form of the biographer of his father’s life-long friend, Sir Roderick Murchison. “By a singular coincidence,” says The Liverpool Mercury, “Dr. Robert Carruthers, the well-known litterateur, editor of The Inverness Courier} who was the first to introduce the father to the notice of the literary world, has been the first to introduce the son in the columns of his journal, the interval between being-47 years. Mr. Miller is at present engaged in the geologL cal survey of England, and, for his own and his father’s sake, many will watch his future career with interest.”
—Even in an artistic sense the downfall of the religious houses in Italy has been injurious to that country. In a recent number of Lippincott’s Magazine was a contribution from Mr. T. A. Trollope, in which that gentleman gives a description of a fine Madonna by Raphael, which has recently been purchased by Mr. Hooker, the American banker. Under the Pope, the King of Prussia had vainly offered a large sum of money for it to the abbess of the convent to whom it belonged. She could not part with it. Since the suppression of the nunnery it has been sold and has thus fallen into the hands of an American. The loss is irreparable but she deserves it.—Catholic Review.
—Mr. August Wolff, head of the house of Pleyel, Wolff & Co., has invented what he calls the “ tonal,” or “ harmonic” pedal, which only holds or prolongs the sound of notes in harmony with what the performer is executing. It is effected by a smaller key-board placed above the ordinary one and handled in the same way, only with the difference that every key touched remains down, to intimate that the note is prolonged, as well as all the smaller notes in the instrument; thus if “A” is down, all the *A’s” are prolonged, etc. This smaller key-bo.ird can be worked with the same facility as the organist works the stops of an organ.
—An important work upon Japanese art is in the course of publication in England. The authors are Mr. James Bowes and G. A. Audsley, both authorities in this department of art, the worth and interest of which are more and more recognized every year. It will consist of two volumes folio, and will contain a comprehensive introductory essay upon Japanese art, and a concise dissertation on the Keramic productions of Japan, -with fifty elaborate colored plates produced from Japanese works of the greatest beauty. It is entitled, “Keramic Art of Japan,” and is dedicated to the Duke of Edinburgh. The description indicates that it will be an excellent introduction to the study, of Japanese art. The first number has already been issued.
—Lucy Hooper, writing to Appleton's Journal, says: It is highly probable that Mlle. Aimee will not appear in Paris next winter, all reports to the contrary notwithstanding. Since her return from America, she has placed so high a value upon her services, and has put on such airs that managers find it hard to come to terms with her. Vizentini, of the Gaite, tried to make arrangements with her to create the leading character in “ The journey to the Moon,” which is to be the piece de resistance at that theatre next winter. But the fascinating singer exacted, among other conditions, that her name in large letters should be placed at the head of the bill, that the piece should not be termed a fairy spectacle, and that she was to be allowed to altar or refuse any morceaux of the music that did not suit her. As Offenbach is to compose the music, that last con • dition in particular was looked upon as an impracticable one. So Mlle. Zulma Bouttar has been engaged in her stead.
—Mr. Dwight, having been privately assured that the wealthy New York gentleman who proposes to endow a national college of music is no myth, suggests in his Journal of Music that there are better investments for the interest of American musical education. “ Here for example,” he says, “is Boston, is every city in the Union, with the exception of New York, without a permanent orchestra; a fund of a few hundred thousands for such a purpose in each musical centre would be an invaluable means of culture. Or, again, suppose that Harvard University, and Yale, and Cornell, and more, could have a few hundred

4
J*
THE NOTRE DAME- SCHOLASTIC.	7
thousands for the endowment not merely of a professorship, but of a full faculty of music,—would not this be a more practical and sure way of beginning the good work, at several points at once, each with its own distinct and compassable aim? Amo.ig a dozen such plantings there would be a reasonable chance that two or three at least would actually take root and yield increase. In two or three, if not in all, the providential man might turn up, the man with the right organizing, quickening genius for the work; and two or three successes, or one only, would be a bless-sing to the country, and a gain for the art. 'Whereas, invested in a single showy institution, with parties plotting, clamoring for management—there are parties in music, and some of them mean ‘business’ more than they mean music—the danger is not slight that the munificent endowment would be all thrown away.”
—The London	of the 24th ult. says: That soft
and delic ite tones can be extracted from glasses has long been known, but a Portuguese artist, Le Chevalier de Fur-tadi Coelho, is of opinion that he has far extended their Use by the making of a new instrument, called “ The Copophone,” and that it can be turned to account in a full orchestra, or it can be combined with solo instruments. He proved his theory partially only at a matinee in Willis’ rooms last Saturday, for he coalesced w’ith piano forte players and with a violoncellist, M. Albert. The copophone is performed on some three dozen glasses of all sizes; and it is by increasing their number and by employing a sounding-board that the inventor has succeeded in extracting tonality, which, in truthfulness of intonation and in bravura brilliancy, will rival the violin or the voice. The penetrating quality of the instrument was proved in the large room, and the air and variations of the “Carnival of Venice ” were performed with marvellous precision, whilst the singing timbrein a cantobile, such as the slow movement of Bellini’s “ Casta Diva,” was replete with charm. How the Copophone would blend with a band has to be tested, but as a drawing-room instrament, when skilfully played, as it is by the Chevalier, it will be attractive. Senhor Coelho was assisted by Madame Eclma Hall, Miss Bolling-broke, Mr. Shakespeare, Signor Fed erici, vocalists; Signor Tito Mattei, piano; M. Albert, violoncello; and Sir J. Benedict and Signor Bandegger, accompanists.
Book Notices.
History of Greece. By C. A. Fyffe, M. A., Fellow and lat Tutor of University College, Oxford. With Maps. New York D. Appleton ; Chicano: Jansen, McClurg & Co.; 117 & 11!) State St. Pp. 127. Price, 50 ets.
An excellent little work; one of the series of primer histories. The events are stated in a pleasing manner, and the young pupils for whom it is intended have not a great number of, to them, useless historical facts crowded upon them. The author spells the names of his Greeks according to the Greek method.
Manual of the Blessed Sacrament. Translated from the French of Rev. T. B. Boone, S. J., by Mrs. Annie Blount Storrs. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, 9 Warren St. 1S75. Pp. 506. Price, §1.00.
All lovers of the Blessed Sacrament (and what devout Catholic is not?) are under obligations to the Catholic Publication Society for this handsome manual. It contains many prayers and devotions to this august mystery, and will serve to awaken the piety of those who use it.
The Last Jourxals of David Livixgstox, in Cen'ral Africa. From Eighteen Hundred and Sixty-five to his Death. Continued by a Narrative of his Last Moments and Sufferings, •obtained from his Faithful Servants Chuma and Susi, By Horace Waller, F. R. G. S., Rector of Twywell, Northampton. With Portrait, Maps and Illustrations. Chicago: Jansen, McClurg & Company, 117 & 119 State St. 1875. Pp. 541. Price, §5.00.
Messrs. Jansen, McClurg & Company have issued a very handsome edition of the Last Journal of Dr. Livingston, the celebrated African traveller. These journals are agreeable and pleasing, like the travels formerly published by the distinguished author. Dr. Livingston needs no notice from us. There can be no person ignorant of the great
work which he has done, and hence everything which has come from his pen is sought after. We recommend all persons when ordering a copy of the “Last Journals” to order the handsome edition of Jansen, McClurg & Co.
Ax Outline History of the Uxited States, for Public and other Schools ; from the Earliest Period to the Present time. By Benson J. Lossing, LS. D. Copiously Illustrated by Maps and other Engravings. New York: Sheldon <fc Co. Detroit: E. B. Smith & Co. 1875. Pp. 399.
Anything coming from the pen of Benson J. Lossing is not worth reading.
The Satires of A. Persius Flagcus. Edited by Basil L-Gildersleeve, Ph. D. {Gottingen} LS. D., Professor of Greek in the University of Virginia. Chicago: Jansen, McClurg & Co. 117 <& 119 State St. 1875. Pp. 231. Price, §1.50
This is a fine edition of Persius. The notes are written with great care and judgment by Prof Gildersleeve and will be of great utility to the student. The volume is neately printed and bound.
The Character axd Logical Method of Political Econ-omy. By J. E. Cairnes, LL. D., Emeritus Professor of Political Economy in University College, London. Chicago: Jansen, McClurg & Co., 117 & 119 State St. 1875. 12mo. Cloth. §1.50, Mr. Cairnes has given us an excellent work on this subject, a knowledge of which is of the highest importance to the politician and statesman. He is a real successor to Ricardo and Malthus, and we can recommend his work to the student in Political Economy.
The Youxg Ladies’ Illustrated Reader. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, 9 Warren Street. 1875.
This excellent reader is one of the Young Catholic Series, and will coinmend itself on account of its admirable selections and its orderly arrangement. The selections are of special use for young ladies, explaining, as they do, the duties of the womanhood. At the same time they give every opportunity the for different vocal expression which make the good reader. It is richly illustrated.
“Plain Directions for Accidents, Emergencies, and Poisons,” and “ Plain Directions fob the Care of the Sick, With Recipes,” are the titles of two valuable and handsome pamphlets issued for gratuitous distribution by the Matual Life Insurance Company of New York. They contain much useful information and many valuable recipes.
Magazines of the Month.
—The August number of the Catholic World contains many excellent articles, and we are sorry that the nature of our paper and want of space prevent us from giving extracts from some of the more notable ones. With the commencement of the scholastic year we strongly advise the earnest student to subscribe for this excellent magazine, and not waste his time in light, frivolous reading. The contents of the August number are I, The Persecution in Switzerland; II, Coffin Flowers (Poetry); III, Are you My Wife ? IV, Space; V, A Fragment; VI, Art and Science (Poetry); VII, The Roman Ritual and its Chant; VIII, Dr. Draper; IX, Daniel O’Connell; X, Ultraism; XI, Maria Immacu-lata of Bourbon; XII, Notre Dame de Lourdes; XIII, The House of John of Arc; XIV, Sonnet; XV, Dominique de Gourgues, the Avenger of the Huguenots in Florida, a Catholic; XVI, The Ladder of life; XVII, New Puble cations.
—We have received the August number of the Manhattan and De La Salle Monthly, which Mr. Savage edits with great ability. Students subscribing for the Manhattan will not invest their money worthlessly, but will derive from their investment a great return in information and pleasure. We heartily recommend this monthly to all. The contents of the August number are: I, George Crabbe, the Poet of the Poor; II, The Children of the Gael; III, The Coming Home; IV, The Day of Wrath; V, Famous Memories of the Month; VI. Journalism; VII, The Capture of Washington in 1814; VHI, Irish Colleges since the Reformation; IX, Fitzgreene Halleck; X, Universities of the Past; XI, Civil Service Competitive System; XII, Miscellany; XHI, Current Publications.

THE KOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, A^tigTist 88, 1S?3.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the nihth year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
Besides the Local News which will weekly appear, the readers of the SCHOLASTIC will find in it many Literary and Scientific articles of general interest.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum,Tostpald.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Our Ninth. Volume.
With this issue the Scholastic enters upon its ninth year. We cannot hut feel gratified with the success of last year, when the number of copies published each week amounted to over a thousand. This year we wish to make our paper more readable and entertaining than it was last, although from our subscribers we have heard nothing but praise as to the manner in which it was then conducted. Still Excdswr will be our motto, and we will not be satisfied with what is simply good: we wish to do better than what we have already done.
In order that we may progress, and afford our readers the entertainment they desire when subscribing, we hope that they will assist us by extending the circulation of the paper. For every hundred -subscribers that we had last year we wish to have two hundred this year. We want the names on our subscription list to number at the very least two thousand. Now, in order to accomplish this we Tequire the aid of the friends who received the Scholastic last year. We hope that they will not only subscribe themselves, but will make an endeavor to induce their friends to subscribe. There is scarcely anyone who is not able to send the name of a friend or two when renewing his own subscription, and we would take it as a favor if they will contribute to extend the circulation of the paper-
The subscription price of the paper is small, scarcely paying us any profit, and we believe that all subscribers, whether they were formerly students of the University or not, get the full value of their money back. Let our readers then, give us the aid which they are capable of giving, and with a subscription list of over two thousand names we will endeavor to give to all a readable and entertaining paper.
»
The Coming Scholastic Year.
The appearances at present are that the number of stu dents at the University the coming scholastic year will be eaqual to if not greater than the year which closed on the 22nd of June last. Professors have been assigned to the different classes, and from the first day of the term every
thing will be in good working order. There have been some changes made in the faculty and among the prefects, but these changes will, no doubt, meet with the approval of all concerned.
Rev. Father Golovin will continue to discharge the duties of President, and this fact will be received with satisfaction by the many persons with whom he Las had any business relations. Rev. John A. O’Connell has been appointed Prefect of Studies. This is an appointment which will be pleasing news to all Who have attended class at Notre Dame; they all know that a fitter and better man could no® have been chosen.
The discipline of the house has been placed in the hands of Mr. Kelly, assisted by a number of excellent prefects* who will continue to maintain the good order and decorum always requi^ of students at the College. We have no doubt but that the coming year will be eminently successful as regardgnot only the number of students who attend class but also the excellent discipline and thorough teaching which will distinguish all the classes. Excellent appointments have been made, for each and every class, of men fully capable of imparting knowledge and instruction to the pupils, and it will be a surprise indeed if the year be not one of the most successful ever known at Notre Dame,

4
The Return to College.	~
A great deal is said of the pleasure which students feel on leaving college for their homes. That they do enjoy great pleasure in leaving the college walls, starting amid the cheers and “ God-speed-you ” of their companions, is true. The hearts of the young men throb with joy, eager to return to the loved ones at home. Yet true and deep as this joy is, we doubt whether it be more deep or sincere than the joy which fills these same students on their return to college after an absence of two mouths.
They are sorrowful as they leave home, no doubt: for they leave their parents and other loving members of the family; they separate from friends and companions of their earliest boyhood to be absent for ten long months.. But though they have the tenderest of love for all these, and . though they keep the memory of them warm in their hearts, as is right and proper, yet they cannot but. help being filled with joy as they near the prencincts of the, college, because they know that there they will meet other warm friends, their companions in class in former years. They know that they will meet that boon companion with whom they pulled an oar the spring before; they know that they will meet the young athlete with whom they batted the ball on the diamond field; they know that they will grasp the hand of that earnest student with whom they joined in honest rivalry in class; and this knowledge gives them a pleasure almost as sweet as man can know.	.
It matters not to the student returning to college that he has a year of labor before him; that he has Greek roots to learn and Latin themes to write; that he has problems to solve and mysteries of science to explore: he has the knowledge that he has good friends and true to work with him in class and enjoy his recreation-day by flood and field. He has performed hard work in years gone by, storing his mind with knowledge, and he is prepared to do the same again. But he does not let his thoughts-dwell on these things alone, but thinks also of the joy which will thrill his


THE NOTRE DAME SCAOLASTIC.
9
f soul when the heartfelt greetings “How are you, Tom?” “ How are you, Joe 2” are given. All grudges are forgotten ; and even the young fellow with whom he quarrelled on z many occasions the previous year, and to whom he was often tempted to give a bloody nose, receives a hearty shake. Yes, there are few occasions which afford more sincere pleasure than that of returning to college after the sum-k mer vacation.
But this joy is felt more fully and perfectly when all the “ old boys ” return on the opening day. Then all are fresh '	’ from home, and going together to the college, or meeting
others who have arrived the sa me day by other trains, the _ feeling of good will and pleasure reaches its highest.
All who would enjoy to its fullest extent the pleasure of the return to college should manage to get back on the 7th of September.
Personal.
—Bro. Irenseus goes to South Bend.
•—Rev. Father Carrier is in Austin, Texas.
.	—Prof. T. A'. Daily returned on Thursday.
p	^-Bro. Alfred has plenty of mason work on hand.
'	—Rev. Father Granger remains Prefect of Religion.
. i—Hon. W. C. McMichael paid us a visit on the 18 th.
:	—Rev. W; F. O’Mahony remains pastor of South Bend,
Ind.	’
.	—Bros. Urban, Paul, Theogene and others go to La Salle,
Ills.
.	—Bro. Francis de Sales will teach in the College this
* year.
—Bro. Francis de Paul has charge of the Manual Labor School.
,	—Rev. M. O’Reilly of Valparaiso paid us a short visit 3n
•.	the 17 th.
•	—Rev. Father John Lauth is now stationed in Galves-
|	ton, Texas.
s	—Bro. Peter will have charge of the music rooms at
* . - Notre Dame.
i	—Rev. Father T. Maher will remain in charge of the
i	Students’ office.	.
i	—Revs. J. M. Toohey, Jacob Lauth and Mr. O’Keefe go
i	to Cincinnati the coming year.
'—Prof. J. A. Lyons, to spend his Vacation, went West ■	—as far as Chicago.
>	—We had a call from Mr. McDermott of the Brooldyn
•	'Eagle the other day.
;	—D. E. Maloney, of ’74, made a short stay here during
|	the first of vacation.	.
| —Rev. L. J. Letourneau has been appointed Superior at ?	the Professed House.
:	—Rev. Peter Lauth has been appointed Pastor of the
Church in Lowell, Ind.
J •	—Bro. Celestine will have charge of the Class of Teleg-
I raphy the comin g year.
—Mr. Carroll and Mr. O'Shea, are among, the teachers in the College at Watertown, Wis.
—Bro. Camillus takes charge of the school in Milwaukee, Bros- Emmanuel, Lucian and others assist him.
—Rev. Michael Hayes, of Mt. St. Mary’s, Emmitsburg, . Md., visited Notre Dame on the 19th.
—Among those who will remain at Notre Dame to h teach in the College is Rev. T. Vagnier.
—Profs. Ivers, Howard and Stace will occupy the same 5	positions in the College this year as last.’.
;	—Rev. J. Frfire will have the general charge of the
? Band, Mr. George 'Roulhac being the leader.
.J	—Revs. T. Vagnier and J. A. Zahm will be at the head
‘ of the Scientific Department al Notre Dame.
—Rev. Father ‘Ford made quite an extended stay in New York, visiting the host of friends he has there.
—Rev. W. Corby, is to remain pastor of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown; Rev. R. Meagher will be his assistant.
—Sr. M. of the Passion, who so well filled the position of Infirmarain here for the last two years, has been recalled to St. Mary’s.
—Rev. P. J. Golovin remains President of the College at Notre Dame, Rev. J. A. O’Connell has been appointed Prefect of Studies, and Mr. J. Kelly Prefect of Discipline j—u—Rev. W. Corby preached the Retreat at the College, vRev. W. O’Mahony preached that for the Sisters at :Nbtre Ihm^and the Rev. Father Angelo, Passionist, that at St. Mary’s!	’
—Among the visitors to the College during the Vacation were Rev. R. Shortis, and Rev. L. Geoffrion of Montreal, Prof. C. A. B. von Weller of Cincinnati, and Rev-'L. Marine of New Orleans.
—Bros. Alban, Norbert, Laurence and Theodore have been appointed Prefects in the Senior Department; Bros. Leander, Alexander and Cyprian in the Junior Department, and Bro. Albert in the-Minim Department.
—Rev. P. W. Condon has been appointed President of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis. Rev. M. B. Brown remains Director of Studies there. Rev. E. Lilly, Bros. Marcellinus, Aloysius and Adolphus also go to Watertown. _
—Rev. Father Ford arrived at Notre Dame on the 19th from his visit to New York. Father Ford is in the best of health, his trip having been of the greatest service to him. He is good for thirty years more labor in the field he has chosen for himself. The good people at St. Joseph’s are delighted at his return.
—The Most Rev. Archbisop Purcell,of Cincinnati will spend a few days at the College about the 7th or 8th of September. His Grace will come to Notre Dame for the purpose of taking a little needed recreation after the ardnons labors of the year. There is not a more welcome vidtor to Notre Dame than our venerable Archbishop, and we hope that his visit may be to him as abundant a source of. pleasure as it will be to all at Notre Dame.
Local Items.
—Work everywhere.
—Watermelons are ripe.
—Hand-ball every evening.
—Vacation will soon be over.
—The evenings are quite cool.
—A little fishing now and then.
—The swans have not arrived yet.
—Students are beginning to arrive.
—How did you spend your vacation’
—Wild grapes are plenty in the woods.
—Painters are busy at the College walls.
—Will the Mendelsohn Club reorganize?
—Classes begin Tuesday, September 7th.
—Bro. Bonaventure’s garden is all abloom.
—The new Church was blessed on the 15th.
—Bro. Gus. has had many visitors in charge.
—Bro. Robert’s flower-garden looks splendid.
—We have rather autumnish weather already.
—The Junior play-hall has been whitewashed.
—Remember, remember, the 7th of September.
—An addition is building to the Professed House.
__The boys have a mosquito-fire down in the yard. __There is very little sickness in the neighborhood. __Ko changes have been made in the printing office. __Urge your friends to subscribe for the Scholastic. __The grand lamp has been hung in the new Church.
!
10
the notke dame scholastic.
—The Botanical Garden—what is the matter with it ?
—All the underground steam-pipes have been repaired —The telegraph line has been in operation all vacation. —There are to be three boilers in the new steam-house. —There is a general cleaning up all ’round the premises. —The walks around the upper lake are much enjoyed. —A large number of Students are expected the coming year.
—Things are already beginning to look livelier about here.
—Bro. Leopold has had charge of the store during Vacation.
—Bro. Albert has finished a pm trait in oil of Collie Clarke.
—The subscription price of the Scholastic is §1.50 per annum.
—Workmen are putting down pipes for sewers in all directions.
—The Music Hall has been painted, which improves it greatly.
—New roofing was put on the western part of the College.
—Some visitors seem surprised when they gaze on the big bell. ,
—The College building has undergone a thorough overhauling.
—Grapes will be plentiful if we had a little warm •Weather.
—Prof. Gregori is busy preparing for the Chicago Exposition.
' —There were many visitors at the St. Joe Farm this last Vacation.
—“The Den’* was quite lonely during the two months last past.
—The grand organ in the new Church is to be pumped by steam.
—Some improvements have been made to the Junior play-ball.
—The grounds just back of the Presbytery are being beautified.
—Students should endeavor to be here on the 7th of September.	,
—We have about seen the last religious service in the old Church.
—Work will be commenced on the Lemonnier Chapel in a few weeks.
—Who will bring us the largest list of subscribers for the Scholastic?
—Apples are ripe, and the boys who remained during Vacation know it
—T. Geghan has been doing good work with his horse these weeks past.
—Mr. Gregori will exhibit four pictures at the Chicago Exhibition this fall.
—We expect our friend John here on the morning of the 7th of September.	'
—Most of the teachers in the mission schools have gone to their fields of labor.
—Worku en will begin the work of demolishing the old Church in a few weeks.
—Let every one coming here in September be prepared for a year of hard study.
—Many improvements are to be made in the College Library the coming year.
—Rev. P. J. Condon, of Watertown Wis., spent the last few days at Notre D.ime.
—The. walk on the left-hand side going down to the Post-Office has been raised.
' —Come back when the classes begin if you wish to procure the best located desks.
—In a few weeks, and the old steam-house will be among the things that Were.	.
—The new Church will be heated with steam. The pipes have already been laid.
—There are now fancy glass doots to many of the rooms on the first floor in the College.
—Only about one-third of the stained-glass windows are placed in the new Church as yet.
—Bro.- Peter has had the telescope in the Parlor repaired. It is now as good as new.
—How do you like our newheading? We got it from Marder, Luse & Company, Chicago.
—Mr. Shickey is prepared to accommodate all coming to the College. His ’bus is A No 1.
—The Orchestra and the Band will be reorganized about a week or so after the classes begin.
—We hear occasionally the sound of horns coming collegeward from the Professed House.
—It is expected that the Choir the coming year will be the finest we have had for years past.
—Painters, carpenters, plumbers, masons, and everybody else about the College, are busy.
—There was a large number of Visitors to the little Por-tiuncula Chapel on the 2nd of August.
—The interior of the new Church is beautiful. The moulding and plastering is finely done.
—The small organ is placed in the east wing of the new Church. It will be used for the chanters.
. ’—Every student should come prepared to join the Lemonnier Circulating Library Association.
—The greater number of the members of the Band of last year are expected back in September.
—There was not an extra amount of boating during the vacation. So much the better for the boats.	.
.—It is reported that the Congregation of the Holy Cross will soon open a house in Covington, Ky.
—A certain gardener around here didn’t “ feel just as happy as a big sunflower,” the other day.
—If you want reserved seats yon should write to either Bro. Alban, Bro Norbert, or Bro. Leander.
—The Collegiate Study-hall has been re-painted and cal-cimined. It presents a handsomer appearance.
—The grass is growing in the Junior play-ground, but it won’t be long before it will be trampled out. ’
—The boys say it is great fun to cook fish caught in the lakes. The mode of cooking is rather antediluvian.
—All communications for the Scholastic should be dropped into the box in the corridor of the College.
—The large crown which was formerly in the College parlor now hangs above the altar in the new Church.
—The new walk around the lower lake will be extended eastward until it strikes the road near the Presbytery. '
—A walk has been made around “ the playground in the rear”i. e., the Minims’ Yard, which is quite an improvement	.
—We have noticed quite a number of hunters with guns on their shoulders, but as yet have seen them bring -home no game. -	.
—The new steam-house will soon be finished. It will be two stories high, with ample accommodation, for bathrooms etc. .	.
—Graves and Devoto played in a South Bend baseball club one day this last vacation. - We are sorry to say they were waxed.
—The congregation in the new church on the 15th was immense. Tnere were many parties from Chicago, South Bend, Niles, etc.
—There was much disappointment on the 15th because the procession was postponed. The 'weather was altogether too rainy.	.	-
—There is plenty of work just now preparing the dor-
1
$
*
•i
4
r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
II




mitories, etc. Everything- will be in excellent order for the 7th of September.
•—Persons belonging to societies should come as early as possible in the session, so as to take part in the reorganization of the associations.
. —A fine lecture was delivered in Lowell by Rev. Peter Lauth on the 1st of August. There was a large audience and the recipts were handsome.
—The chimney of the new steam-house is one hundred and twenty-four feet high. It is just even with the windows in the dome of the college.
—The students who remained here during the vacation managed to enjoy themselves very much. It was very lonely, though, for them at first.'
—A new infirmary is to be opened for the Community, and the whole of the present infirmary building will be devoted to the use of the students.
—The lecture and recitation-room of the Glasses of Chemistry and Physics will be in a building to be fitted-up for them just west of the College building.
—The Students at the Manual Labor School have enjoyed themselves greatly at b ise-ball this vacation. Some very good games, we understand, were played.
—Men are engaged in filling up the marsh north of the lower lake with earth. In the course of a few years this lake will rival the upper lake in the beauty of its surroundings.
—The doors, mouldings and other carpenter work in the new Church are master-pieces of skill and good taste. They reflect much credit on Bro. Charles and his corps of carpenters.
” —Men are tearing down all the row of frame buildings just west of the Scholastic Office, except the stables. The meat-house near the clothes-room will also be left standing.
—Mr. A. Daumet, C. S. C., was ordained Subdeacon on the 15th, by the Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwcnger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, in that city. Mr. Daumet will leave Notre Dame for France in a short while.
—Three ecclesiastics, Messrs. Kirsch, Collins and Johan-/ nes, made their religious profession on the 15th last. V Some eight or ten Brothers also made their profession, and ten, we believe, received the religious habit.
—The President’s room is now on the right hand of the hall entering the College. The Director of Studies takes the room formerly occupied by the President. The Prefect of Discipline retains the room heretofore occupied by that officer.
—On the 19th a game of baseball was played in South Bend between the employees of the Register and Tribune offices which resulted in favor of the former by a score of 21 to 7. This will scarcely do, friend Crockett; you should make your men as expert at the bat as the stick.
—Our friend John has been travelling this vacation. Going from Detroit to Toledo, the brakesman entered the car and called out “Vienna,” when he heard a young lady from a fashionable boarding school say to her companion: “ This is not Vienna, Italy, but Vienna, Michigan! ”
—Students and Visitors will recollect that Knight and Mills still run the old reliable Dwight House. As hotel men, they cannot be beat, and students should make it a point to recommend their friends to put up at the Dwight when coming to Notre Dame, South Bend and St. Mary’s.
—Students coming by way of Niles should give the Bond House a call. The will find Mr. McKay a first-class landlord, and if they will mention the fact that they are on their way to the College they will lose nothing by it If you are forced to stop any time at Niles be sure to go to the Bond House.
—Everyone should see the propriety of entering College when-the classes begin. If they do not enter at that time they will, of course, lose some of the recitations. Class Will begin on the 7th of September. Everything has been so arranged that there will be no delay in any of the classes. Let every one, then, be.on time.
—The Minims who remained at the College during va
cation had one hours’ class every day. They also had lunch a half an hour each day, and a malicious Junior who hangs around the dining-room but “can’t come in’’ aVers that they did more work in that half hour of lunch than they did in a full hour of class. But, then, he is ieal-ous.
—A great number of persons from Valparaiso visited the College Wednesday, August 25th. They were a party of pic-nickers who under the direction of F ither O’Reilly, the energetic and popular pastor of that town, were out for a day of relaxation and pleasure. They appeared to enjoy themselves. There were some ten or twelve carloads of them.
—Prof. Edwards informs us that he has been promised a large number of books for the Lemonnier Circulating Library by some of the “ old boys.” He expects during the coming year to add somewhere near a thousand vol-•umes to the Students’ Library and thus make it more attractive than it now is, although there are in it some twenty-five hundred volumes.
—A beautiful monument has been erected at the grave of the lamented young Ed. Dunbar, of ’63, in the cemetery near the Scholasticate. It is of marble, beautiful in design and artistic in execution. Young Dunbar, it will be remembered, was drowned at Waukesha, Wis., something over a year ago, and was at the request of his parents buried at Notre Dame, where he had passed his boyhood.
—The Lemonnier Circulating Library has been removed to the room adjoining the old library room and formerly used as a dormitory. The increased and rapidly increasing size of the library rendered this change necessary, and _we know that it will be pleasant news to the many members of the Library Association. We hope the Association may be as prosperous the coming year as it was the one just past, and that the number of volumes may increase until a much larger -room becomes necessary for the library.	-
—On the 15th of August the new church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame was blessed, with appropriate ceremonies. High Mass was sung in the new. church the same day; the Very Rev. Fr. Granger, who has labored so hard in having it constructed, being celebrant. Rev. Fathers Louage and Hudson officiated as deacon and subdeacon. In the afternoon solemn Vespers were sung, but the procession which usually takes place at Notre Dame on the Feast of the Assumption was postponed on account of the wet weather. Rev. Father Corby of Watertown, Wis., preached at the high Mass, and Rev. Father 0‘Mahony at Vespers. Both sermons were excellent.
—A correspondent of the Chicago Times, speaking of the new Church at Notre Dame, says: “The frescoing and painting is being done by and under the supervision of Gregori, the celebrated Roman artist, who was brought from Rome here under a three years’ engagement by the Very Reverend Father Sorin, Superior General of the Order, for this purpose, and also for the purpose of paint-ino- the 14 Stations of the Cross. Thus far the artist haa accomplished but little, but from what he has done it is easy to foresee that when his task is nnished the new church of Notre Dame will be, artistically speaking, second to none perhaps on this continent. The windows will be all of the richest stained-glass. Seme four or six are in already. ”
—We clip from, the Chicago Times the following notice of Cashin, of '74, and Corby of ’65: “ The festival given by the Union Catholic Library Association last evening was well attended, and proved to be a very pleasant affair. The early part of the evening was taken up by the literary portion of the programme, which was given in the library hall. The principal feature was the reading of a humorous essay by Mr. Gasilin, which was well received, and was full of happy hits and allusions to the familiar topics of the day. Prof M. T. Corby sang a number of songs in good style, while Pound’s Orchestra filled out the programme with choice selections of instrumental music. In the rooms of the Beethoven Society, across the hall, the tables were spread with the refreshments, and to this place the members adjourned at the conclusion of the exercises, and the remainder of the evening was spent in feasting and prom
I
12
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
enading, while the orchestra discoursed its most inspiring numbers. The bounty of the ladies had supplied cake and provisions largely in excess of the wants of the guests, and the balance was packed up for a donation to the orphan asylum.”
—After an absence of four years Col. J. H. Wood has again located himself in Chicano, for the purpose of opening, on the 30th of August, 1875, a Museum and Lecture Room, and intends conducting the same on strict ethical principles. He has associated himself with Messrs. R. L. Marsh and Wm. Van Fleet, two gentlemen of known reputation and ability in the profession,- Mr. Van Fleet being the manager of the Dearborn Theatre prior to the great fire of 1871, and Mr. Marsh, an old associate and treasurer ■with Col. Wood for many years.
A museum stocked with careful selections from nature, affords a direct study7 for the young that educational institutions are without, and a knowledge to adults that is only otherwise obtained by close research. It is, therefore, his intention to have such au establishment, as he has the necessary room to crowd his large collection in. He intends giving entertainments in the Lecture Room twice daily, afternoons, 2 P. M., and evenings, 8 P. M., in order that the people from the country, who will not have time to stay over night in the city, can visit the Museum during the day lime, and also see an entertainment in the Lecture Room, all for the same money. The entertainments in the Lecture Room will be of the highest order of histrionic art.
—On last Wednesday about one thousand persons, principally from Valparaiso and South Bend, held a union meeting and picnic in the grove opposite the Scholasticate. It was gotten up by Fathers O’Mahony and O’Reilly, under the auspices of the Total Abstinence and Benevolent Societies of the above-named places. The picnic was a success, for not one disorderly person was seen on the grounds, and everything went oft’ in a pleasing manner, as is always the case where Father O’Mahony presides. At 4 o’clock Father O’Mahony delivered a short address, in which he hoped that this was only7 the beginning of that union and acquaintance which was just inaugurated between the Catholic congregations of Valparaiso and South Bend, and closed by requesting that a joint committee of four be appointed to wait on Very Rev. Father Soiin and tendre him the thanks of both congregations for favors received. His request was complied with. Mr. James McDermott, a journalist of wide reputation, closed the proceedings by7 a speech. After relating a pointed and appropriate anecdote, which brought rounds of loud ap plause, he spoke at some length on the advantages to be derived from a union of not only7 the cities represented, but of the Catholic congregations throughout the State and continent. He was much gratified at seeing such a large assemblage, and was astonished that where so many were gathered together iu festivity and social enjoyment not the least sign of intoxication was to be seen. We must say that the music furnished by the South Bend Band was excellent, and well deserved the high eulogiums bestowed on it by every lover of good music on the grounds.
—The solemn ceremony of religious reception and profession took place at the Convent Chapel of the Sisters of the Holy Cross at Notre Dame. Ind., on the Feast of the Assumption ; thirteen postulants received theiehgious habit and twenty-five Novices made their religious profession. Very Rev. E Sorin, Superior GcneraloftheCongregationofthe Holy Cross, officiating, assisted by Rev. Father Zahm, C. S C. The names of the new Novices are: Misses Ellen Early (Sr M. Andrew), Mary Stumph (Sr. M. Alphonsus Rodriguez), Annie Flynn (Sr. M. La Salette), Mary Forrest (Sr. M. Josepha), Catherine Consadine (Sr M. Camilla), Julia Sullivan (Sr. M. Agnella), Diary O’Biien (Sr. M, Eustella), Diary Mouse! (Sr. M. Antonine), Margaret Kill (Sr. M. Pontmain), Mary Rooney (Sr.M. Lucina), Catherine Mangan'(Sr. M. Lourdes), Elizabeth Frere (Sr. M. Stephania), Maiy Mulligan (Sr. M. Alexis). Those who took final vows were as follows: Sr. M. Joanna Evangelista (Miss Margaret M. Miniter) Sr. M Susanna (Miss Cathci ine Lauth), Sr. M. Eudoxia (MissElizabeth Welbis), Sr.M. of the Cherubim (Miss Maigaiet Strasser), Sr. M. Lu-dovica (Miss Annie Walsh), Sr. M. Eugenie (Miss Elizabeth Young), Sr. M. Pulcheria (Miss Elizabeth Larkin), Sr. M. Bene-dicta (Miss Sarah Donnelly), Sr. M. Clement (Miss Elizabeth A. Cunningham), Sr. M. Dominic (Miss Alice F. Broderick), Sr. M. Eulychins (Miss Catherine Mm ray), Sr. JI. Paula of the Incarnation (Miss Mary E. Tobin;, Sr. M. Beatrix of Nazareth (Miss
Mary Dardis), Sr. M. Edward of Holy Cross (Miss Catherine Haffey), Sr. M. Milburge (Miss Bridget Foley), Sr. M. Liguori (Miss Catherine Kavanagh), Sr. M. Benoit Labre (Miss Mary Young), Sr. M. Magdalene of St. Joseph (.Miss Jane Carthy), Sr. M. Vincentia (Miss Mary Lawrence), Sr. M. of St. Jude (Miss Annie Flynn), Sr. M. Louisa of Jesus (Miss Catherine Kilroy), Sr. M. Blandine (Miss Elizabeth Murphy), Sr. M. Julian (Miss Ellen Mulvihill), Sr. M. Aloysius of the Passion (Miss Hanora Agnes Mulcare), Sr. M. of the Seven Dolors (Miss Mary Quirke).
Obituary.
—A novice of the Cogr^gation of the Holy Cross, Mr. Maximus Bastarache, died at Notre Dame, Ind., oa the 28th of July. Mr. Bastarache was a uative of Buctouche, New Brunswick, and for many years attende I class at the University. He was in the 22nd year of his age. His death was highly edifying, his last hours having been made happy by the reception of the last Sacraments of the Church.
—Departed this life, at Notre Dame, on the 2nd of August (Feast of the Portiuncula, or Our Lady of Angels), Mr. Michael Noonan, a native of Cork, Ireland, in the 34th year of his age. Deceased was from the time of his arrival at Notre Dame until within a few weeks of bis edifying and happy death, actively employed in the office of the Ave Maria.
—We are grieved to annouce the death of the Hon. Wm. Shephard, of Jerseyville, Ill^S Mr. Shephard was the fai her of F. B. Shephard, of ’71, and H. A. Shephard, of ’73. Hs & died on the 12th of August, and the funeral obsequies occurred at St. Francis’ Church on the 15tb. The edifice was filled with citizens, and friends and relatives of the family from abroad. All classes of citizens participated, high and low, rich and poor. The following are the names of the clergy present, and who participated in the solemn and impiessive service of the Church, viz: Rev. J. Hearty, pastor of St. Francis’ Church, Jerseyville ; Very Rev. J. Jonson and Rev. Richard Grant, Alton ; Rev. P. O. Halloran, East St. Louis; Rev. M. Clifford, Mt. Sterling; Rev. P. Brady, Springfield; Rev. P. Mackey7, Jacksonville; Rev. L. Recawrer, Carolltbn; Rev. E. Goran, Grafton. The organist was Mr. Bernard Voortman of Alton. The services commenced at about 10 o’clock a. m., and the procession formed at 12:30 p. m., moving to the Catholic cemetery, where the deceased was interred with all the rights and ceremonies of his religion. Mr. Shephard was' a "devout Catholic and has been a staunch supporter of that _ Church. His death, though not unexpected, has cast a

1
£

3
gloom over the entire community, and the family have the condolence and sympathy of all in their bereavement.
Mr. Shephard leaves an estate valued at §30f(lb00 and a policy on his life, in the Life Association of America, payable to his wife and daughters, for §10.000.
—Died, at Notre Dame, Ind., August 24th, 1875, Bito. James (in the world, John Dorsey), in the 28th year of his age and the 2nd of his religious profession. Bro. James was a native of Ireland, but came to this country at a very early age. He attended school at St. Francis’ College, Loreto, Pa., conducted by the Brothers of St.
9
4
Francis, and was for many years employed by them as -Prefect of Discipline, until the fall of 1870, when he joined the Congregation of the Holy Cross at Notre Dame. After making his novitiate here he was appointed one of the prefects in the College, the duties of which office he performed for two years, at the end of which time he was made Director of the Manual L ibor School at Notre Dame. In this position Bro. James accomplished much for the good of the house, and his memory will ever be held in affectionate remembrance by the inmates of the school during his directorship. His health failing, he recently received an appointment to take charge of a school in Austin, Texas, where it was supposed the climate would prove more congenial to him. But death came to him rather unexpectedly, on the night of the 24th—and his friends, w’ho are numerous, not only at Notre Dame, hut in all parts of the country, will receive the tidings of his early demise with heartfelt sorrow, linguieseant in pace.
r
3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
13
St WUrtf 8
*
J
p
—The Academy has been renovated, and presents a very cheerful appearance. .
—The new summer-house on the bank of the St. Joseph is now completed and looks very attractive.
—The Astronomical Department has been enriched by the purchase of a splendid “Williams’ Siderial Concentric Globe.”
—Classes will be resumed on the first Monday in September. Those pupils who are then present will receive extra good notes for punctuality.
—A great number of distinguished strangers daily visit the Academy. Their expressions of admiration of the Institution are certainly very flattering.
—The tide-wheel, moored on the St. Joseph river just south of the Academy, is an object of special interest. By means of this wheel forty gallons of water per minute may be forced up to the reservoirs in the Academy buildings.
—The presence of Mother Angela during the vacation has augmented the satisfaction of all at St. Mary’s. Her long absence was a subject of regret; but wherever she i% she never ceases to labor for the advancement of the pupils at the Mother House, nor ceases to remember them with affectionate interest.
—Not more than thirty of the old pupils remained at the Academy, but the number of vacation girls was daily increased by arrivals of new pupils who sought the benefits of a vacation at St. Mary’s—which vacation included just enough of morning class duty to give zest to the delightful leisure of the afternoons.
—A great amount of anxious curiosity was evinced by the pupils as to the destination of their former prefects and teachers, lest some of them should be among the chosen band who are to start next Monday for Salt Lake City, where the Sisters of Holy Cross have lately established a fine branch-house under the direction of Mother M. of St. Augusta. But none of St. Mary’s corps were chosen. The former staff remains as before.
—The old summer-house, known as the “ Chinese Umbrella,” has been torn down, and a much more elegant affair constructed in its place. This favorite resort of the pupils now measures 52x25 feet, and the top of the umbrella is 16 feet high. Here, on the glorious 4th—transferred to the 5th—the patrioticyonng Americans at St. Mary’s ventilated their patriotism by fine speeches, and then cooled off the ardor of their feelings by eating ice cream and imbibing lemonade in honor of the “gay we celebrate.”
—There are few friends of St. Mary’s but what can appreciate the beautiful allusion in the following sonnet written by Miss E. A. Starr for the Catholic World for August:
Mark yonder gentle doe I her one loved fawn Close at her side, just where the leafy wood, With all its summer charms of solitude, Steps o’er the verdant edges of our lawn! Mark their shy grace at this chaste hour of dawn! While culling spicy birch-twigs, their cropped food Dew-drops impearl, and morning shadows brood O’er dells, towards which their timid feet are drawn. Thus have I seen, ■within a cloister’s shade, A widowed mother and one tender child Close at her side ; one habit on them laid ;
Both, by a kindred ■ xaltation mild. Led to the service of the Mother Maid, With her to seek Heaven’s peace through pathways undefiled.
—The great event of the season was the beautiful and impressive ceremony of the reception of the holy habit and veil of the Sisters of Holy Cross by a number of young ladies, and the religious profession of sixteen Novices. Very Rev. Father Superior General, C. S.C., officiated on the occasion. Rev. Fathers Toohey and Vagnier, C. S. C., assisting. We give here the names of the newly Professed and the Novices admitted:
The young ladies received as Novices were: Misses Margaret Donnelly (Sr. Mary of St. Saula), Johanna Haney (Sr. Mary of St. Bernarda), Hanora O’Sullivan (Sr. Mary of St. Marciana), Catherine Thornton (Sr. Mary of St. Basilla), Anna Maria Shields (Sr. Mary of St. Fortuuata), Catherine Ward (Sr. Mary of St. Fibronia), Honora Conihan (Sr. Mary of St. Ciauda), Frances McLaughlin (Sr. Mary of St. Gabriella), Margaret Brennan ( Sr. Mary of St. Pudentiana), Mary Slattery (Sf. Mary of St. Os-mana), Julia Ryan ( Sr. Mary of St. Corina), Elizabeth Kelly ( Sr. Mary of St. Liberata), Ellen Spillard (Sr. Mary of St. Adolphine), Sarah Chambers (Sr. Mary of St. Liliosa). Philipene Lang ( Sr. Mary of St Hedwige), Julia Joyce (Sr. Mary of St. Veneranda), Mary Ellen Holloran (Sr. Mary of St. Secunda), Mary L. Maher (Sr. Mary of St. Redempta). Annie Crowley (Sr. Mary of St. Candida), Margaret Mooney (Sr. Mary of St.John of the Cross), Margaret Cannon (Sr. Mary of St. Therese), Catherine Dunn (Sr. Mary of St. Imelda), Mary E. Brown (Sr. Mary of St. Eusebia).
The names of those admitted to Profession were: Sr. Mary of St. Anna (Mary Crowley), Sr. Mary of the Holy Innocents ( Mary Angela McLarren), Sr. Mary of St. Pius ( Mary Arnold) Sr. Mary of St. Francis de Paul (Rosana Delaney), Sr. Mary of Bernadette (Catherine Y. Mooney), Sr. Mary of the Presentation (Anastasia Lawrence), Sr. Mary of Loreto (Matilda Toohey), Sr. Mary of St. Petronilla (Bridget Piggott), Sr. Mary of St.-Lucy (Elizabeth Russell), Sr. Mary of St.' Wilfred (Pauline Moss), Sr. Mary of St. Benizi (Annie Bryson), Sr. Mary of St. Benignus (Ellen Hickey), Sr. Mary of St. Columbanus (Annie Hickey). Sr. Mary’ of St. Loretina (Mary J. Kirwan), Sr. Mary of St. Zita (Johanna Murphy).
The College.
In answer to enquiries sent to us by strangers, we would say that the University of Notre Dame was founded in 1842 by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees.
The College buildings are on an eminence near two small, picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway —the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the former passing within a mile of the Collegegrounds, and the latter connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibuses or private conveyances can be obtained.
" The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The study-halls, class-rooms, diningrooms, sleeping apartments and recreation-halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students. The site of the College is one particularly adapted to the improvement of the students. It is secluded and healthy, and constant care is rendering a spot naturally beautiful still more attractive by art and good taste. The advantages arising from the retired position of the College cannot fail to be appreciated by parents who haveat heart the education of their children; and even, the careless student, when once interested in his studies, soon finds out the benefits he can derive from an uninterrupted attention to class and study. Though secluded in a great measure from the busy world without, yet the number of students and the extensive College grounds give him a world of his own, in which, what with Class, Examination, Notes, Literar5r Societies, Religious Associations, baseball clubs, boat clubs, dramatic and musical entertainments, he finds full enjoyment and amusement, and companions, ideas and sentiments that all concur to fix his mind on his studies and establish him in habits of piety, application and order—the influence of which will be felt during his entire life. He breathes for a few short years the atmosphere of order, of regularity in all that he does; of profound application to studies, broken only by healthy and regular recreation ; and certainly in our times, when serious and solid studies are becomming so rare, when all kinds of inducements to waste and fritter away time are forced upon young students, when morals are so lightly watched over, the advantage of the retired location of Notre Dame cannot be too highly spoken of.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Providence has singularly blessed the Institution in regard to health; and those who have had their sons in the College can give their testimony that the regular course of life, added to the salubrious climate and the fresh country air, has done much to improve the health of their children.
The disciplinary government is mild, yet sufficiently energetic to preserve order and regularity. The morals and general deportment of the pupils are assiduously watched over, and their comforts and personal habits receive the same attention as if they were in the bosom of their own families.
The education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the Students of the Junior Department have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire an elementary knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science, but also with what is much more important, a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students exclusively. The intellectual training is carried on with care and dilligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected, so that n > pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an institution of education.
REGULATIONS OF THE UNIVERSITY.
All students are required to attend the exercises of public worship with punctuality and decorum.
Students must show themselves obedient and respectful towards the Professors and Prefects of the Institution— never absenting themselves from the place in which they ought to be, without permission from proper authority.
Students must carefully avoid every expression in the least injurious to religion or morals, their Professors, . Prefects or fellow-students.
The use of tobacco is strictly forbidden to such as have not permission from their parents or guardians. Intoxicating liquors are absolutely prohibited.
Compensation for all damage done to the furniture or other property of the College will be required from the person or persons causing such damige. -
No branch of study, ouce commenced, shall be discontinued without permission from the Director of Studies.
No one shall leave the University grounds without the permission of the President or Vice-President.
Student are expected to take baths regularly.
Students who have failed to give satisfaction in the Classroom, or who shall have been guilty of misconduct, shall perform such tasks as shall be assigned them, and will be excluded from all College exercises until such tasks be accomplished.
No book, periodical or newspaper shall be introduced into the College without being previously examined and approved by the Director of Studies. Objectionable books found in the possession of students will be withheld from them until their departure from the University.
All letters sent or received by students may be opened by the President or his representative.
—Somebody suggests that Hannibal Hamlin’s head ought to be put on the postage-stamps, so that everybody may have the pleasure of punching it when a transient newspaper is to be mailed.
—One of the Colorado cattle-kings was recently visited by an old college friend who frequently overtaxed his host’s memory by using Latin quotations long forgotten by reason of disuse. One day the Western man got even with ■his pedantic guest. Pointing to an immense herd of fine young cattle in prime condition for the market, the visitor said z “You must have had good luck, since you commenced stock-raising?” “Yes,” replied Ilie host, “it is due to my luck that I can say ‘Hine ill® lachryime’ in looking at my herds.” “ What do you mean ?” asked his astonished guest. “Why, don’t you see ? ‘ Hence these steers.’ ” •	-
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER, TUT
.AjVD jewelry.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE!
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent reqnestof many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
A.ttaclie<l to tire National Hotel, and. AH-jaeent to the Lake Slxore and
Niicliigan. Soxitliem Depot.
Now. that telegraphic communication has been made between Notre Dame and my oflice, through the Michigan Southern Depot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the pa’rohs of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, by permission to the Superiors of both Institutions.
'	P. SHICKEY.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE.
M. LIVINGSTON & CO., 04, Micliig-an St., SOTTTTT BETTD.TTTTDTA.nsrA.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING AND FURNISHING GOODS,
Our Merchant Tailoring Establishment is in full blast. We have a full stock of cloths, cassimeres and vestings, and we turn out the best fits. We sell for cast,, and our prices are about one third lower than any other house in the business.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	15
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne 85 Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
FEBRUARY 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor.. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side).
.	On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
O Trains with Through Cars to	- Nd. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night' Ex. Ex Sa & Su
° NEW YORK.			
Lv. CHICAGO	...	9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	5 20 a.m.
“ Lima		4 35 “	1 25 a.m.	8 00 “
“ Forest		5 34 “	3 01 “	9 17 “
“ Crestline		7 00 “	4 40 “	11 10 “
“ Mansfield		7 50 “	.5 20 “	11 50 “
“ Orrville		9 42 “	7 12 “	1 46 p.m.
“ Massillon		10 15 “	7 45 “	2 19 “
“ ~ Canton		10 33 “	S 00 “	2 38 “
“ Alliance		11 15 “	8 40 “	3 20 “
“ Rochester		1 18 a.m.	11 12	5 58 “
“ Pittsburgh		2 20 “	12 15 p m.	7 05 “
Lv. Pittsburgh		3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
“ Altoona		7 30 “	5 55 “	12 10 a.m.
“ Harrisburg		12 05 p.m.	11 05 “	4 13 “
“ Baltimore		6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
“ Washington		9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
“ Philadelphia		4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
“ New York		7 35 “	6 50 “	11 15 “
“ New Haven		11 10 “	10 49 “	3 36 p.m.
“ Hartford		12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	5 55 “
“ Springfield		1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
“ Providence		4 25 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
“ Boston		5 50 “	4 50 “	9 05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN
On and after Sunday, May 23,1875, trains will leave SouthBend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a m., N'ght Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 10 30: Cleveland 3 p in; Buffalo 0 15.
IO 39 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 pm; Cleveland 10 15.
12 57 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 60; Cleveland 10 lo; Buffalo 4 05 am.
9 IO pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland. 7 05; Buffilo, 1 10pm.
7 53 pm, Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,2 30;
Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 pm.
4 pm, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 4 15 p m, Chicago 6 30 a m.
4- 53 am, Pacific Ei press. Arrives at Laporte 5 45; Chicago 8 20 a m.	'
3 pm. Evening Express. Arrives at Lap< rte 3 55; Chicago 6 30.
4- 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45-Chicago, 8 20.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago ■ 11 30 a.m.
8 25 a m, Local Freight.	-	-
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. GenT Supt.
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged hy the travelling public to be the
Great Overland norite to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
. Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 ajn.	4 (0 p.m.
Peru accommodation................... 5 00 p m.	9 30 a m.
Night Express........................10 00 p.m.	6 15 a.m.
M. SMITH,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.
H. RIDDLE,
General Superintendent,
That rurs the celebrated Pult.man Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	-
F. R. MYERS, G. P. & I. A.
MICHIGAN CENTRAL H. R.
Time Table-July 18, 1875.
	•Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago....	5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p m	9 00 p.m
“ Micb. City..	7 32 ’•	11 01 “	6 35 “	7 43 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		9 02 “	12 15 p.m	8 30 “	b 55	1’2 45 “
“ Jackson. ..	2 12 p.m	4 05 “	7 00 a.m	12'47 a m	4 55
Ar. Oetrcir ....	5 -15 “	f. 30 “	10 15 “	3 5'J “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 SO a m	4 CO p m	5 40 p.m	9 50 “
“ Jackson		'0 37	12 30 p.m	7 15 “	9 25 “	12 45 a.m
“ Niles		3 40 p.m	4 19 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
Mich. City..	5 15 “	5 45	7 5‘) “	4 C5 “	5 45 “
Ar. Chicago. ..	7 35	8 00 “	10 20 '•	6'30	8 00 “
Wiles and Sontlr Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 00 a.m.	6 30 p.m.	§9 OG	a.m.
“ Noire Dame—8 07 “	6	38 “	9 07	“ '
Ar. Nil.-s— 8 45 “	7	10 “	9 40	“
GOING SOUTH.	’
Lv. Niles— 6 30 a.m.	5 10 p.m.	§8 00	a.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	5 4G “	8 32 “
Ar. South Bend- 7 15 “	5 55 “	8 1J •'
§7 30 p.m.
7 <7 “ 7 40 “
§5 CO p.m 5 32 “ 5 40 “
•Sunday excepted . tDaily. - ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. §Sun ay only.
H. B. Lidyard,	Wm. B. Strong,
Ass’t Gen’l Sup’t, Detroit.	GenT Sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. &T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame
Ilave you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
Sacramento. Ogden, SaltLake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs, Yankton, Sionx City, Dubuque, Winora, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Green Bay. Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee^ and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If yon wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and wiD take no other
This popular rou'e is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth. well-b‘lastcd and perfect track of ste-1 rails, Westinghouse air brakes. Miller’s safety platform and couplers, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping fars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points , West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts ‘ in modem railway i raveling.
PLLL5IAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road
This is 'he only line running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul, or Chicsgo and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on tha Union Pacific Railroad for all noints west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	-	•	,
Marvin llugbitt,
General Superintendent.
W. H. Stennett,
Gen’l Passenger Agent
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Hrwd IlWal Motel
SOUTH BEND, USED-NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS. HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
SAMUEL EjSTG-EL,
THE CLOTHIER,
Invites your attention to his
Merchant Tailoring Establishment, No. 90 Micliigan Street, SOUTH ZBIEZUTZD., T2UrZDT_AnSTA—
Only First Class Work Made Up
At Reasonable Prices.
If Desired, "Will Bring Samples and
Take Measures at the University.
L. E. MAYR
KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS AaD JEWELRY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENGHRAVINGF A SPECIALTY.
Repairing Done in the Most Skillful Manner.
69 WASHINGTON, St,,
SOTJTE3Z. ZBZEHSTD-
St |teaxtemit
(One Milo West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BE THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental. and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the'religions instruction of Catho-lir pupils. Pupils of all denominatiens are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited 1o tha educational requirem nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beau ifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further'particulars concerting this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary's Academy for the year 1874-75, or address	’ ■
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
TITZE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Eadie- and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts ot home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, ) CAPTAIN MILLS, f ProP«etors.
McDonald,
TTTE BHOTOG-RABHER,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
O. H. SHEERER,
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’‘Furnishing Goods, Eto.,
IIO Micliigan Street, .
________• SOUTH BEND, T^TD-
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L, Garrity’s Candy Factory,
100 Van Buren St.,
CHICAGrO, ILL.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy...................................15c
Fine Mixed Candy-..............................25c
Choice Mixed Candy.............................35c
Caramels.....................................  35c
Molasses and Cream Candy.......................25c
Proportionately ^ow Prices to Whole -. sale Cash. Buyers.
A. McKay, Brop.,
NEELES, T^TOITIG-TYTT.
Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
LUCIUS G. TONG,
ATTORNTEY-AT-LAW,
• AND NOTARY PUBLIC,
B 9 DM EellOWS’ BM, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
The Students’ Office.
TZZEHTTaY BIiTTIM:,
Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc.
ZiNo. o-l WasZLiiiigton. St.,
SOUTH BEND, LENTD.
1