The Scholastic:
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS. .
Volume VII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 30, 1874.
Number 40.
thwarted my designs and made me the laughing-stock of the whole Court. Search, men, search well for the rascaL {They seek for Theodebert.) .	•'
Sesmond. It is not not too much that his blood should wash out the outrage.	-
Gonslan. Let him serve as art example for all future villains.	;
Labrisse. Zounds! the affair is farther from solution than at the beginning, and my young scapegrace Prince seems to have taken a fresh lease of his crown. (While the seldiers seek for Theodebert, Me archers sloidy move to the left.)	'	.	•:
Bois Robert. {Aside, with, a threateninggesture.) Thy pains shall be requited with evil to-thyself, dark conspirator!
Labrisse. If I could but find him alone! {making a murderous gesture.) The time is propitious, and the crazy archer could be accused of the deed—it would free me of both Prince and—But who are these?—Back, men! look there!	'	/
All. The archer! {rushing towards Theodebert.) ■ *
Labrisse. Hold! who is that, his companion ?
All. The Prince! the Prince!	. .
Labrisse. It is indeed, Heaven be praised! Now I have them—my two foes—within my grasp. Now shall all my troubles be ended. Quiet, men, till they come near; and then, at the signal, spring upon them.. Show.no mercy; they are both traitors, {aside) They shall not escape ! (Labrisse, and soldiers withdraw a little.)	•
Bellarosa. {Holding his father's arm.) Blessed Providence, dear father! we are again together. Forgive, oh! forgive the wrong I have done you!	•	,
Theodebert. Poor boy! It was a rash promise; but ’tis over, and I forgive you from my. heart. We have both dearly paid for it. Now, thank Heaven, I may press you to my bosom once more!—I thought they had bewitched you and turned your heart from me, but you are still my own, my Bellarosa!	‘
Bellarosa. Yes, father, your own Bellarosa, as I used to be in our mountain cottage. O let us return; we can be happy nowhere else!—Come, father^	.
Sesmond. ’Tis his father! My lord, do youhear?'
Labrisse. I am undone! (Ad draw swords.) *
Bellarosa. (Drawing back in fright.) Hark! Great God! we are watched! What! murder! (Labrisse, and soldiers step forward.) Oh! pity! spare my father! - .
Theodebert. (Drawing his sword.) Fear not, my son. (Bois Robert and archers rush in.) .	.
Bois Robert. Mantua to the rescue! Back, assassins 1 (Archers levd their spears.)	.
Bellarosa. We are saved I -	.
Labrisse. Who dares challenge me thus?	.
Bois Robert. The archers of the Duke challenge thee, base assassin!	.	.
Labrisse. You dare! (Archers and soldiers prepare la ^At.)	. -	. „
Bois Robert. Behold father and son, vile schemer! The blood you sought has indeed taken a new lease of life—' defend your own! (They fight; Labrisse fads.)	•
(Enter Duke, Courtiers, pages, torch-bearers, etc.) .
Duke. What is this? Labrisse weltering in his blood f —The Prince! What does this mean ?
Bois Robert. Justice, my lord!: Behold the assassin! -
All. Labrisse!—assassin! .	. ’
Bois Robert. Behold the victims whom he sought,— father and son!	.	*
All. Father and son! .	.	.	* . - s,
.	FILIAL LOVE.
A Drama, of .the Fourteenth Century.
ACT FIFTH.
Scene IL
Quivala. {alone.} I shall guard this path. The night is so dark that I could scarce recognize Theodebert, even within a bow’s length.—Who is that approaching ? ’Tis. a human shape—let me observe more securely. (Withdraws to one side)
(Enter Bellarosa, in his mountain garb, with his cloak thrown over it.)	.
Bellarosa. I thought I heard the noise of feet, as of some one preceding me. A little more, and I shall be in the open fields, throw off this disguise, and make for the mountains, to my poor father.
. Quivala. {in a lowl voice.) Who goes there ?
Bellarosa. Good heavens! a guard!
Quivala. Halt, in the Duke’s name.
Bellarosa. Oh, for some hiding place! {looks around.)
Quivala {aside.) ’Tis the Prince himself, Bellarosa. What'can he be doing, poor boy ?
Bellarosa. (aside.) I shall question him; ask him if he saw an old man pass this way.
Quivala. {aside). So late, and he here unattended!
Bellarosa. {aside.) But he could not tell me; guards never see any one.
Quivala. {aside). Alas! if he knew the so'rrowful hunt the archers are on now,—poor boy, he is tormented enough without that. (A chant is heard.)
Bellarosa. {aside.) A song—ha I
(Theodebert is heard singing the following air—“House of Avenel" from La Dame Blanche.)
Theodebert {outside)
Mountaineers of Golan, Fearless and strong, Now as in former years Raise we the song.
Quivala {aside.) Some one is singing. Whose voice is this?
Bellarosa. {aside.) I know this song—’Tis our familiar strain . . . my father’s song. ’Tis his voice. . . {sings)
La la la la la la la la la la la la la la—
Theodebert. {outside near by)
Mountaineers of Golan, Fearless and strong.
Bellarosa. La la la la la la la la.
I surely know the song {listens.) -
La la la la la la la la—
{Exit in the direction of Theodebert.) La la la la la la la la. -
Quivala {amazed.) It is Theodebert! •	.
{Enter Archers.)
Bois Robert. Did you not hear Theodebert singing?
Quivala. Hist! Here! just here! Bellarosa and his father are together.
All. Is it possible! (They withdraw into the background as Labrisse enters.)
Scene HI.
{Enter Labrisse,—with Sesmond, Gonslan, Attivo, and Reginald, searching cautiously, with drawn swords.)
. Labrisse. I shall be revenged on the miscreant who

322	THE SCHOLASTIC.
_______________ ___ ________ __________________ i?
Pages. The Prince’s father!
Duke {stepping forward.) Just Providence! how wonderful are Thy ways! To confound the wicked and let the innocent triumph, a great wrong was permitted,—be Thy mercy praised, that draws good out of all our evil! (To Bellarosa) Noble youth, pardon my unjust traffic in your tender affections.
Bellarosa. With all my heart, my lord,—and may .Heaven pardon the poor soul that did me so much wrong 1
Duke. And do you, worthy sire, receive my regrets for • the grief which unknowingly I brought upon your father’s heart.
Theodebert. Nay, my lord Duke, I understand it all .now! Filial love has been tried as in a fiery furnace. If has shone bright in our adversity, triumphing even over worldly honors and princely dignities—
. Duke. Dignities which have now been fairly won, since—	.
t All. .He is indeed a prince—
(Theodebert and Bois Robert shake hands. The <	archers come around Theodebert)
■ Pages. And we his dutiful pages. {They press around Bellarosa)
■v Amitus {to Bellarosa.) My lord, we have happily found you.
Gusman (to Bellarosa.) Gracious me! what dangers ;you have, passed!
Gensano. We searched the whole palace for you.
• Servllius. What a happiness! ’Tis al!well ended.
■ Duke. And now to the palace. I long to reward so great virtue. A victory would give me less pleasure than Ihe sight of wrong redressed and duty rewarded.
Theodebert. Alack! too much honor for an old soldier.
All. The Duke wills it. Long live the Duke!
Bois Robert. Long live the archers of the Duke!
J Duke. Long live FILIAL LOVE, and our noble Prince!
:	[Chorus.—Epilogue'}.
' Errata.—The following characters were omitted in the dramatis personce: Bataglta and Montalto, Archers. In Act IV, Scene III, 3rd line of 2nd column, read Gontrand instead OfGOKSLAN.
' Wrongs of the Indian,
t	.,
•	BY YANKEE.
“White man, there is an eternal war between thee and me!” Well may the white man shudder and turn pale at this scathing denunciation of the injured red man, wrung from his seared and bleeding heart by cruel tyranny and unparalleled treachery. And how noble must not that heart have been, which, broken by anger, grief and sorrow, wished not to take unmanly and unexpected vengeance upon a representative of that cruel race that deprived it of all that was dear to it, of all for whom it beat with a love both strong and sacred ! But its spirit was too lofty. “ Go, white man,” it said; “ go in peace; but remember, hereafter there lies eternal war between us. Your race has crawled snake-like into the bosom of our once happy tribes and poisoned the spirits of their fearless children. We received you kindly into our happy huntinggrounds; we fed and clothed you; we taught you to sla-the choicest game—and for this you have repaid us by stealing away our wives and children, by corrupting the manly principles of our courageous warriors, by depriving us unjustly of our rightful inheritance, and bearing us into slaveiy or carrying on against us a cruel scheme of lawless extermination. You have taught us to drink your minddestroying poison, and, in our imbecility, caused us to barter our possessions for glittering tinsel and miserable baubles. You carried deep treachery beneath 3 our smiling exterior; and to-day the remnant of our tribes, our pillaged wigwams and our' beggared hunting-grounds proclaim your falsity. White man, we might have loved you. We did not ask to have you leave us; the Great Spirit would have, rejoiced to see us live in unity. The country was sufficient for us both; but the demon entered your breasts
and you sought to exterminate the brave yet harmless red man. You'have/awakened an everlasting hatred in the bosom of your deeply-injured foe, and by night and day he will harass you with scalp-knife and torch, with dagger and tomahawk. Your blood and that of your children shall fertilize the soil of our summer-parched plains, and your cabins shall lie level with the dust.” Such was the vindictive and deadly spirit of hatred that sprang up, and with cause, from the inhumanity of the white man towards the dusky children of the forest. Never has any race been more cruelly oppressed and unmercifully driven to destruction.	•
Four centuries ago the Indian reigned sole lord of the American continent. Where, now, are thriving cities and pleasant villages, were, then, grand forests, the romantic homes of happy tribes, whose picturesque wigwams stood erect /mid the drooping branches of the sturdy oak and o’er whom the graceful pine stood, a tall, grim sentinel. Grassy glades and shady glens rang with tne silvery laughter of dark-eyed maidens and re-echoed again and again to the sonorous tones of warrior chieftains. All was gladness, joy and mirth. Their cup of happiness was filled to overflowing; but oh! how soon was it to be dashed from their lips and the bitter dregs of misery and desolation to be substituted in its stead! The adventurous white man sought their Eden, and was carefully, tenderly, watched over by their hospitable solicitude. He w’as cherished as a friend, grandly superior to them iu wisdom and intelligence. His counsels and teachings were listened to with reverence and awe. He was beloved and revered; but, like the serpent which stung the bosom that warmed it from its torpor, he turned about, marked out his course, a river of ninocent blood, and pursued an unoffending race to merciless ruin. It is said in favor of the action of the white man, that the Indian is treacherous and vindictive. But what has made him so? ’Tis the action of the paleface! Till loaded with indignity, he was gentle and friendly; then he became fierce and revengeful. His nature was noble, fearless and true. Never abasing himself, to knowingly and needlessly injure another, his manly spirit could brook no insult nor injury. Attacked with treachery, he knew no other means to retaliate than by combatting it with a treachery deeper and more deadly. The white man has been guilty of great wrong. Had he made use of fair means in possessing himself of the property of the Indians— had he profited bjT their example of unswerving honor and rectitude—had he treated them justly, he and they might have lived in amity, and he might have slowly led them from their indolent but honorable habits to become active and intelligent members of civilized society.
At their first word of opposition to the unlawlul seizure of their lands, he bore down upon them with fire and sword, bearing destruction and desolation to many a happy wigwam. The Indian became revengeful when thus the white man sought to crush his independent spirit. He swore eternal vengeance; and, true to his unflinching principles, he has endeavored to fulfil his oath. Even here; the white man might have made the Indian again his peaceful friend. But no! he called the hunted red man “coward, sneak”—and thought not once of the circumstances that made him such. No! no! not such!—for the red man was never coward! He may have seen a sneak, but ’twas as a protection against the death bearing fire of his relentless persecutors. Hunted to the rocky fastnessess of the sombre forests, be was compelled to have recourse to strategy, which stung bis noble s<>ul to the quick, that he might still protect the weeping squaws and starving children of his Aiding tribe. But often, maddened at the thought of his profound abasement, he was forced to cast aside all studied tact, and burst forth, in bis native fearlessness, to rush to certain additional contumely and destruction. The continued wrongs heaped upon the free and fearless child of the forest have surely, but far from slowly, told upon his unbending nature. Rather than, as the whipped cur, lick the foot which has spurned him, the red man has betaken himself to the graves of his fathers, and fallen manfully in defence of his possessions. The white man has driven him from bis wigwam, and pursued * him thence, pouring destruction in upon him and stretch-, ing the flower of his flock in cold, stiff, death. The levelled wigwam, the'scattered council fire, the desecrated tombs
THE SCHOLASTIC.
32«
of their warrior chiefs, remain to remind the heartless white man of the numberless wrongs heaped by him upon an unoffendiug people. And the heartbroken remnant of the once happy lords of the American forest shows the insatiable asperity with which he maintained his hateful spirit of might against a noble race whose hatred he himself, by his many cruelties, had evoked and enkindled.
A Lecture in the Senior Study-Hall.
On Saturday, the 23rd inst., the Students of the Senior Study-hall were again favored with a lecture on Modern History by Professor T. E. Howard. Though we have been favored with many lectures on modern history by the same gentleman, all of which were worthy of the lecturer, without any question the lecture of last Saturday was the m 'St interesting, if indeed not the most instructive. This was not because the Professor had taken any more pains to make it so, nor because he delivered it any better than he al ways delivers his lectures, but because the subjectmatter was at once interesting, instructive, and pirtook of the nature of an epic poem,—as ind :ed does every subject which deals witli noble and valorous deeds performed by men truly brave and unselfish for the noble cause of selfpreservation, for the sake of justice and humanity, and above all, for the sake of Christian independence and the promotion of piety, by putting a chtck to the barbarous conquests of the merciless Moslems over the Christian world, as well as rescuing from their ferocious and sacrilegious grasp those places dear to the Christains of every nation because hallowed by the lif.-, teachings, and sufferings, as also the death and burial, of the Saviour of the world. It is needless to mention that all history contains but one subject answering this description, and that this subject is that of the Ciusades.
It is aiwajs a pleasure to hear Professor Howard deliver a lecture, because what be says is said in such an easy, natnial, yet effective and pleasing manner that each one of the audience feels as though the lecturer were addressing him personally. No one needs to strain his memory in order to keep the thread of the discourse; because, no matter how far apart the agents at work, nor how different the characters on the stage, its various parts are so adjusted as to fall in naturally, one after another, forming a connected chain; yet each link stands out prominently by itself, and while performing its connecting function imparts strength and harmony to the whole. Besides, his lectures are always a rare literary treat, abounding in expressive idioms, beauty7 and simplicity of construction, a delicate use of synonyms at once inparting variety and animation, together, with the force aud vivacity which characterize the English language only' when in the hands of a master. It would ind-ed be superfluous to say' how those lectures are appreciated by the students of the Senior study-ball. But of course there must be in every audience some few who cannot appreciate the subject under discussion, no matter what it may be. In the majority of cases this is a matter neither of taste nor education, but aconstilutional indifference which some persons feel in regard to certain subjects, while the same subjects produce a very marked effect upon others. Take mathematics, for exam pie: you will find some who are all attention and eagerness while what they term a beautiful formula is being demonstrated on the blackboard, and others, some of whom we know, or at least should know, very intimately, insensibly allow their eyes to wander from the blackboard, finally turn to the window, watch the rain falling or perhaps the commotion which the wind is making among the trees. So in regard to the lectures in the study-hall, so far as a few—indeed a very few—are concerned; and should those few allow their thoughts to wander outside of the study-hall during the lecture, since it is constitutionally impossible for them to pay attention, the most perfect harmony would prevail. But unfortunately, and to the great chagrin of their neighbors, they do not always do so. '
In conclusion, while we express our sincere thanks for the many lectures with which we have been favored this year by Prof. Howard, and hope to be favored with many more by the same gentleman, we are well aware that we
are but faintlyre-echoing the sentiments of all thestudent3 of the'Senior study-hall.	. H;H.
Will Carleton’s Entertainment. ' :
The matinee given by Mr. Carleton, Tuesday afternoon, was a source of pleasurable diversion to our students; and coming, as it did, just before the.extra severe labor of the Examinations, was a relief which they appreciated. The announcement that Mr. Carleton would give us a public reading caused quite a pleasant sensation, as many were anxious to see the author of the popular Fann Ballads j and Tuesday afternoon found a. pleasingly expectant audience assembled in Washington Hail awaiting his appearance. After some very fine music by the Band, which, as usual, was out in full numbers—and each member well up in his part—Mr. Carleton came for ward and was presented by our Rev. President, Father Lemonnier. He made a few introductory remarks, which were well received, inasmuch as thej' were humorous anddproposto theoccasion. Hethen opened his programme by reciting his popular ballad entitled “Out of the Old House,” which was followed by his humorous descriptive poem “The Fourth of July Celebration”, a new sequel to “ Over the Hills to the PoorHouse,” in which the “black sheep” of the Deacon’s flock tells his own story and makes a pretty hard case against the five “ white ’’ones. This was supplemented by the old farmer, who had been in the city for some weeks serving on a jury and who rejoiced because he “ was going homo to-day.” He then recited a philosophical poem, entitled ‘Logical Laming,” which admirably illustrated the p&ncAfi ant some men have for “arguing”; a poem entitled “The Christmas Present”; an elderly lady’s description of “The New Church Organ,” and the difficulty the choir met with in trying to follow the tune for the first time. Then a temperance poem, entitled “Johnny Rich,” which we thought ought to be called “Johnny Poor,” as John was. decidedly an impecuneous loafer. He next recited a ballad entitled “Gone with a handsomer man”; “The Wonderful Churn,” a highly humorous poem, in which thar lawyer as well as the audience got the “cream? of the joke; and, after thanking the students for their kind appreciation and the President and Faculty for the?ebuftesy extended to him during his brief sojourn here,;.he closed the programme with a poem descriptive of an incident which might have happened during the burning of tho woods in northern Michigan in the fall of ’71, and which he called, “ Out of the Fire.”	.	.
We will not open the guns of our great critical battery,— we are not so disposed,—but we will simply say that, measured by the rigid' rules of the science of Elocution^ Mr. Carleton would scarce stand the test—while, at the' same time, as a pleasing public reader he has been, and must continue, eminently successful—and we have sometimes been heterodox enough to doubt if the latter is not after all the true test of elocution. In regard to the poems themselves, they have been already reviewed by-vastly larger pens than ours, and we can only add that there is a tender pathos running like a wave, of low, undefi.iable music through all his more, serious poems' —which, combined with their simplicity of style, must ever endear them toevery lover of humanity.
Csam Dad Schiemba.
The one serviceable, safe, certain, remunerative, attainable quality in every pursuit, is the quality of attention.
Aftp.r the conversion of Frederick Lucas, the distinguished lawyer, he met John Bright who said to him: “Well, Frederick, how dost thou like thy new superstition?” “Better, John,” replied Lucas, “thanT liked our old hypocrisy.”
Hartford, Conn.; is getting spiteful in her prosperity, and thinks the name New-Haven should be written “new haven; ” it is without any capital now.
“Are you guilty or not guilty?” asked a judge of a prisoner the other day. “An’ sure now,” said Pat, “what-are you put there for but to find that out ? ”
$2'4
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Tlw SchulastiiL
Published every Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
■ AP communications shouidbe sent to Editor Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana.	'
'	TIBMS:	.
< On© year........................$100
' Single copies (5cts.) of the pnhlication can be obtained at the Students' Office.	-	.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Mulhall, their parents, celebrated	f
their silver wedding on the same day.
- When shall we hear the Orchestra ?
, Rev. Father Frere is now in Lafayette, Indiana.
. Very Rev. Father Granger is well again, thank God. '	•
A large box full of books and oil paintings from Rome arrived last week at the College.
. The .work on the-Church is being pushed on vigorously. Plastering will begin in a few days.	'
The Infirmary is wholly deserted; we have never had better health at Notre Dame than now.	.
। On Wednesday a cable from Liverpool announced that the Pereire had arrived out on the 26th.
We have not had any reply from Rev. E. B. Kilroy, of London, E. C., but we look for him in June.	.
The Junior Exhibition will take place on the 2nd of June. All our friends are invited to attend.
• We were sony to hear of the illness of our good friend Hon. A. C. Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa. We trust that he will soon be"well. We cannot well afford to celebrate the Commencement-Day without him.
: Mr. Henrion departed from Notre Dame for Dubuque, Iowa, where he expects to remain for some time with his relatives. His health has been very poor. We trust that a change of air and a little rest will do him good.
. The music from the Brass Band last Sunday was splendidly executed. We are proud of our musicians. The Mass was sung with fine effect Our singers manifest a good taste and no lack of good will to do well their part.
On the evening of the day that one of the saloon-keepers of South Bend was fined for selling liquor to one of the students, we were asked, seriously, by a friend whom we met at the depot, whether it was true that four students had died that day of the smallpox! Our answer was a hearty laugh. Some are ready to swallow anything from the saloon-keepers.
The Annual Exhibition of- the students of Notre Dame . will take place on Tuesday evening, June 23rd. The conferring of Degrees and distribution of- prizes will be on Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. The distribution of premiums at St. Mary’s will tak$ place on the same day— Wednesday—at 11 o’clock, a. m., and all will be over on Wednesday, 3 o’clock p. m.	.
. The ,11th of this month, ID. John Mulhall, of St. Louis—formerly a student'of Notre Dame, was married to Miss Sue. Robinson,' of St. Louis. On the same day, his sister, Miss Agnes Mulhall, was united in the bonds of matrimony to Doctor C. F. Buckley, of San Francisco.
We are directed to inform our readers that the subscrip-	f
tion for the New Tabernacle of the Church of Our Lady	:
of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame will close at the end of	(
June, and the money subscribed will be forwarded to Paris.	|
There are a number of friends who have signified their in-	* *
tention of having their names inscribed on the gold inlay	I
of this splendid piece of art and religion, and a few others who asked a little delay to pay, hence the information we	■
now convey them.
The Matinee which Mr. Carleton gave us on Tuesday	I
was one of the best entertainments given at Notre Dame by outsiders for many a year back. Mr. C. does not profess to be a trained elocutionist, but he has a good voice, a • pleasing manner, a sympathetic countenance, and, to our taste, gives a better reading of his own poems, in his simple, artless style, than can be given by any one else with all the adventitious aids of the elocutionary art. We do not pretend to decry elocution; we like it, and think that all speakers should cultivate it; still, there is something ’ that reaches the heart more directly than simulated tones and studied gestures, and that is the earnestness of ' a man in conveying to you his own thoughts aud making you see the mental pictures that he has drawn iu the exu-	.
berance of his fancy. And here is where Mr. Carleton has the advantage over the mere elocutionist.
- When we say that Mr. Carleton is no professional elocutionist, we must not be considered as saying that be is an ordinary reader; on the contrary, he is a good reader, as the qualities we have already ascribed to him show be must be. Besides being a poet of no ordinary rank, he is	,
a handsome, modest and agreeable young man. ’
Here is what the free old Switzerland has come to in these degenerate times:	.
The new Constitution will introluce several important changes.- Among these it gives, for the first time, the Federal Government the control of thearmy and of military stores and fortifications; makes every man liable to military service; makes education secular and compulsory; . provides for the passage of a uniform bankruptcy law; subjects the ecclesiastical to the civil power; m ikes civil marriage obligatory; prohibits the creition of any new bishoprics without the permission of the State, and the • foundation of new convenis or the revival of old ones, and maintains the exclusion of the Jesuits, and provides	;
for the exclusion- of any other religious Order the conduct of which, in their judgment, may seem to the Gov- ’ J ernment- dangerous to the State or likely to disturb the peace between creeds.
• Received,.
Die Kanzel. New York: Friedrich Pustet.
Peters’ Musical Monthly for June. New York: 599 Broad-
way, J. L. Peters.	.
The Young Crusader for June. Boston: 803 Washington St.
. Edited by Rev. Wm. Byrne.	.
The Paradise of God; or, The Virtues of the Sacred Heart'of	J
Jesus. By a Father of the Society of Jesus. Baltimore, John Murphy & Co.	’	f
. This book, just published in serial form in the Messenger	I
THE SCHOLASTIC.	.325
*
L‘ ft
I !
p Lj O
f f ij
of the Sacred Heart, has the approbation, of Very Rev. Joseph E. Keller, Provincial of Maryland, and the Imprimatur of the Archbishop of Baltimore. It is replete with instruction and incentives to piety, and the very book to beused during this month of June.
The Christian Cemetery in the Nineteenth Century ; or, The Last War-Cry of the Communists. By Mouseigneur Gaume, Protlionontary Apostolic. Translated from" the . French by Rev. Richard Brennan, A. M.; with a preface by
Very Rev. Thos. S. Preston, V. G. New York and Cincuinati ; Benziger Brothers, Printers to the Holy Apostolic See'.
The object of this work of Monseigneur Gaume is one in which Catholics of this country have a great interest. They are placed among their fellow-citizens, are acted upon by them and act upon them, are insensibly influenced by the ideas that are put forward by men devoid of faitla, and by the conversations they hear and the newspapers they read. If they be not thoroughly posted in Catholic doctrine and belief, they will find that they hold many opinions that cannot be reconciled to Catholic doctrine, or that are in no' way consonant with Catholic belief. It would be well therefore that this book on the Christian Cemetery be largely circulated among Catholies, that their views on the matter of the burial of the dead be not obscured by the talk of their non-Catholic neighbors and by the persistent endeavors of many papers to introduce cremation, or the burning of-the bodies of the dead— according to the old pagan custom—ins>ead of consigning them to burial in consecrated ground. There are other questions treated of in this book which are of interest to Catholics, and we recommend its perusal by all. We shall give this week or next a chapter from this book, on incremation, as that subject is mooted so much just now in . this country.
Subscriptions to the Tabernacle.
[continued]
Kate and Maggie A. Prendergast, Quincy, Ill.,.$10 00
Mrs. Sarah Keenan. Philadelphia, Pa.......:... 5 00
Mrs. E. Gibbons, Stone Carroll, Kansas,........ 50
[to be continued ] ---------o .-----------
Soli of Honor.
FOR -THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MAY 23, 1874.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
• J. Brown, W. Ball, C. Berdtl, C. Bowman, M. Bastarache, G. Cunnea, J. Callery, J. Caren, P. Cooney, IT. Cassidy, J. Crum-mey, G. Crummey, T. Cashin, T. Cochrane, E. Dunn, H. Dehner, F. Devoto, T. Dailey, C. Dodge, B. Euans, M. Foley, J. Flaherty, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, E Graves, C. Hess, A. Horne. J. Hogan, R. Hutchings, J. Handley, J. Kennedy, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, J. Luby, J. Mullin, J. Mathews, S. Marks, T. McDonough, B. McGinnis, AL McCullough, J. McMahon, E. McSweeney, E. McLaughlin, T. Murphy, E. Monohan, A. Mooney, D. Maloney, J. Ney, R. O’Connor, J. O’Brien, P. O’Meara, P. O’-Mahony, T. O’Mahony, J. Ott, C. Proctor, J. F. Rudge, J. Rudge, G.Rudge, F. Sweager, L. Sanders, F. Scrafford, R. Staley, S. Studebaker, J. Van Dusen, J. Wolfe, H. Walker, C. Walter, L. Watson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
B. J. Baca, J. F. Beegan, J. Buchanan, W. P. Breen, L. Best, C. Burger, C. Campeau, A. Crunkilton, J. Cullen, J. Cohen, J. Dalley, F. Bugner, A. Byrne, J. Dale, J. Doyle, N. Dryfoos, J. Delvecchio, W. Darst, J. Ewing, F. Ewing, H. Faxon, C. Freese,
G. J. Gross, J. C. Golsen, T. Gallagher, C. Hake,: J. Keilty, M. J. Kinsella, L. Loser, C. A. Lewis, B. LeFevre, G. McNulty, J. Marks, C. Myers, F. Miller, N. J. Mooney, C. Nichols, D. Nelson,-J. O’Connor, D. J. O’Connell, C. Peltier, J. F. Soule, F. Stop-penbacb, J. Smith, L; Smith, W. Schultics, R. Sobeyj'T. Solon, E. Washburn, F. Wittlesberger, E. J. Wood, R. Walker, D; Gorman.
Class Honors.
WEEK ENDING MAY 28, 1874.	- -
COLLEGIATE DEPARTMENT.
Senior Class—C. Berdel, W. Clarke, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, T. Dailey, L. Hayes, H. Hayes, D. Maloney, R. Staley, H. Walker, T. White.
Junior Class—T. Grier, T. Murphy, E. McLaughlin.
Sophomore Class—M. Bastarache, J. Careri, F. Devoto, E. Graves, T. F. Gallagher, T. Hogan, E. S. Monahan, C. Proctor^ C. Walter.
Freshman Class—J. Brown, W. Breene, H. Cassidy, P-Cooney, H. Dehner, B. Euans, J. Gillen, J. E. Kelly. A. J. Mooney, P. O’Mahony.
Law Class—M. Keeley, E. McSweeney, B. McGinnis, J. Ney, T. O’Mabony, P. O’Meara.
Botica.
The various Societies are requested to select their representatives for Society Day, Saturdiy, June 20th. Each person so selected will be expected to submit his speech,' essay, declamation, or other exercise whatsoever, to the Director of Studies, before the programme for that day is made out.	M. B. Brown, Director of Studies.
Chaugs of Time.
The trains on the Lake Shore Road going East leave South Bend at 10.38 A. M., 12.27 P. M., 9.11 P. M., 2 35 A. M., 7.54 P. M. Trains going West leave South Bend at 8 A. M., 5 55 P. M ,450 A. M., 3.20 A. M., 4.51 P. M.
Ou the Michigan Central Road trains for South Bend leave Notre Dame at 5 05 P. M., 1 20 P. M., 9 55 A. M-, 7 05 A. M. Trains for Niles leave Notre Dame at 8 20. A. M., 11.15 A.M., 3 05 P.M., 7 05 P.M. '	'
June Examinations.
. For the information of all concerned, we take occasion this week to explain briefly the order of the approaching Examinations.
On Friday and Saturday, June the 5th and 6th, competitive examination (in writing) in the Natural and Physical Sciences.
On Monday and Tuesday, June the Sth and 9th, com-petive examination (in writing) in the remaining studies of the four regular Collegiate classes and in the Senior Commercial class (including all studies of the Commercial Course).
On Saturday, June the 13th, Oral Examination in the Modern Languages.
On Monday, June.the 15th, Oral Examination of Senior Class (Scientific and Classical) begins, to continue on Tuesday, the 16th, if required.
On Tuesday, the 16th, Oral Examination of Senior Commercial Class. . .
326	THE SCHOLASTIC.
On Wednesday, the 17th, Examination in Telegraphy.
■ On Thursday and Friday, the 18t.h and 19th, Written Examination in Preparatory Classes, and Oral Examination of Junior, Sophomore and Freshman Collegiate Classes.
On Friday, June the 19lh, Exaniination of Law and Medicine. On the same day, Examination in Minim Department.
On Saturday, during the forenoon, Examination of Music (beginners). Drawing, etc.
On Saturday afternoon, at 4 o’clock, Exercises of the various Societies, in Washington Hall.
On Sunday evening, Musical Soiree, under the leadership of Bro’s Basil and Leopold, to serve also as an examination of the more advanced Music pupils.
On Monday, June the 22d, Examination of Beading classes and such others as cannot be examined in writing.
M. B. Bkown, Director of Studied.
All Around.,
Aint it hot though ?
A little rain would do no harm.
The front garden is quite flowery.
Examination for the prizes is near at hand.
The straw-hat rangers can eijoy this weather under their great canopies.
•We were pleased to learn that our old friend, Mark M. Foote, intends to be with us for a few da^s about Commencement time.
. The Monthly Bulletins of the students were made out on Wednesday.
Is it not about time the different Societies were making preparations for Society Day, which is not far distant?
Gjieat excitement exists amoung the Juuiors in respect to the championship of that Department.
The Holy Angels and the St. Giegory Society enjoyed an?extra “ rec.” on Tm sday. They made the sylvan shades around the lake ring with their merry angelical voices.
What mean those handsaw tones of “now,” “now,” “now,” which come to our ears on an evening from over the waters of the lower lake? Can it be that the lonely spirit of some poor departed hero is loitering around that romantic region ?	•	•
We have often beard of Will Carleton and have always read his poems with much ph asure, but not until Tuesday did we ever have the honor of meeting him. We were highly delighted with his readings and recitations.
The St. Cecilians bring out “Filial Love ” next Tuesday evening. We wish them entire success, knowing that they have the “stuff” to bring out an excellent play.
Mil. Bonney has finished up some very fine photographs of the students. He has not taken many groups yet, but has been very busy taking individual pictures.
The old play-hall has been locked up, and the billiard-tables stored away for the summer.
Thebe were some exquisite oil-paintings on exhibition in. the parlor last week. We believed they were from Europe.	!
Father. Louage expects to leave in a short time for France. We wish him a pleasant journey and a safe return.
In a Catalogue of the Northwestern University we see the names of our old students John and Dennis Hogan;
the former, is in the Medical Course and the latter is a Junior lawyer.	...	- -
Swing1 on Xsnophon.
We have no special animosity against Prof. Swing. We rather admue his perseverance and pluck, displayed in the hopeless task of endeavoring to reconcile Presbyterianism with common seme. But wnen he quotes a Greek, author let him be sure that he understands him, otherwise, he is liable to lose the confidence of his hearers in his ability to translate that language in which the New Testament, was written—that language a thorough knowledge of which, above all others, is a matter—not simply of life and death—but of damnation and salvation—to those who make the Bible their sole rule of faith; some of whom, by-tbe-bye, are now greatly exercised in spirit over the discovery that a word which hitherto and elsewhere has been by their own co religionists understood to mean “wine” means “ unfermented grapejmee'' But to our subject:
The Chicago Daily Tribune of May 16, makes Prof. Swing give utterance to the following sublimely mixed-up statement:
“Xenophon says of Clearchus that, notwithstanding his bright armor and his regal robes, whenever the baggagewagons became entangled or stalled he would put his own shoulder to the wheel, and go down himself into the mud.”
Now, as what Xenophon tells us of Clearchus is comprised within the limits of the two first books of the Anabasis, all that we hive tn do is to seat ch through these two books for the incident of the wagons getting stuck in the mud. We find it in the First Book, about the middle of the Fifth Chapter, and moreover, we find,
1.	That, for “ whenever,” the adveib should have been' “ once, when—”
2.	That Clearchus is not mentioned, as having had anything to d > with it. ‘ ’
3.	That if he hail had anything to do with it, it would not have been “notwithstanding his regal robes,” because he never wore regal robes.	.
4.	That Cyrus, who was bossing the business, did not put “his own shoulder to the wheel, and go down himself into the mud.” ~	'
5.	That the Persian aristocracy, who threw off their purple cloaks (the nearest approach to regal robes in the anecdote) and ran down into the mud with their expensive shirts and variegated breeches on, did so, not as an act of self-reliance or personal independence, but, on the contrary, as a proof of their abject submission to the despotism of Cyrus. For Glus and Pigres having manifested some sulkiness at being commissioned to superintend such laborious or degrading work, Cyrus commanded the noblest of the Persians around him to descend to the level of the slaves who were toiling in the mud, and thus show the Greeks that the highest as well as the lowest were equally subservient to his supreme autocracy.
A more unfortunate quotation, both as to facts and application, Prof. Swing could-hardly have made.
The Gbeat Unswung.
Tbue courage is cool and calm. But what is done in anger, can never be placed to the account of courage.
As pride is a vice that seldom escapes without punish^ ment, so humility is a virtue that hardly ever goes without a’blessing. :	.	•
THE SCHOLASTIC.
327
SAINT BABY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, May 25,1874.
Tablet of Hozur.
SENIOR DEP’T.	.
Misses L. Niel, M. Kearney, A. M. Clarke, N. G-ross, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, L. Black, N. Langdon, J. Walker, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, M. Wicker, V. Bail, L. Dent,'M. Letourneau, E. Hagerty, J. Locke, E. Boyce, K. Finley, A. Curtin, M. Walker, J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. T. Clarke, N. Foote, M. Riley, A. St. Clair, M. Quan, G. Phillips, J. Stimpson, E. Sweeney, E. Bohan, M. Johnson, E. Denehey, E. Dougherty, L. Arnold, S. Sweeney, R. Burke, L. Bradfold, L. Pfeiffer, A. Conahan, B. Wade, N. McEwen, F. Moore, A. Roberts, J. Bennett, N. Huber, L. Keena, R. Roscesco, L. Tinsley, M. Kengel, A. Sullivan, M. Barry, M. Bell. E. Ives, F. Lloyd, A. Minton, L. Henrotin, E. Ross, F. Taylor, J. Kreigh, E. O’Connor, C. Miller, L. Johnson, B. Johnson, K. Graham, M. O’Mahony, H. Miller, R. Kettler, M. Ives, S. Harris, S Murrin, M. Po-quette, N. O’Connell, M. Klotz, C. Sottrup, M. Shiel, A. Boser, A. Garies, K. Irmiter, K. Engel.
■’ INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Miss L. Black.
2nd Div.—Misses N. McEwen, R. Spier.
2nd Class—N. Foote, J. Kreigh, A. Smith, L. West.
• 2nd Div.—M. Quan, A. Roberts.
3rd Class—A. ill. Clarke, C. Nason, E. O’Connor, A. Minton, M. Letourneau, S. Harris, R. Devoto, N. Gross, M. Barry, M. Resch, K. Hutchinson.
- 2nd Div.—M. Kengle, E. Ives, A, Harris, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair, F. Moore, M. Koch, L. Wyman, E. Denehey, M. Kearney.
4th Class—A. Keeline, M. Hutchinson, J. Stimpson, L. Tinsely, A. Boser, L. Henrotin, J. Locke, J. Bennett, C. Morgan.
2nd Div.—L. Pfeiffer, E. Boyce, C. Aliller, N. Huber, M. Klotz, R. Roscesco, B. Wilson, B. Golsen, A. T. Clarke, M. Brown.
5th Class—M. Kaeseburg, L. Bradford, M. Pritchard, M. Faxon, K. Engel. M. Johnson, M. Cummings, L. McKinnon, A. Cullen, K. Finley^ M. Jackson, A. Allen.
2nd Div.—A. Conahan, A. Garies, L. Ritchie, M. Roberts, C. Sottrup, A. Lloyd, L. Niel, L: Lilly, L. Johnson, E. Richardson, E. Lang.
Gth Class—M. Schultheis, H. Hand, K. Morehead, E. Bohen, L. Germain, C. Orr, H. Peak, L. Walker, M. Reily, S. Sweeney, A. Curtin, M. Carlin, A. Goewey, L. Walsh, M. Walsh, A. Walsh, JI. Thompson, E. Thompson.
’ 2nd Drv.—E. McDougall, J. McDougall, K. Lassen, I. Fisk, H. Miller, E. Schnoback, J. Barry, R. Canoil, A. Sweeney7, S. Murrin.
7tji Class—N. O’Connor. R. Gallary, E. Dougherty, E. Neteler, E. Lappin, R. McKeever, L. Keena, M. Martin, M. Reynolds, K. Casey, M. Summers, M. Quill, _M. Po-quette, K. Graham, M. Railton.
8th Class—E. Simpson, F.’Dee.
9th Class—J. Brown, C. Hughes, M. Hughes, M. Ewing, A. Ewing.	-
• Harp—M. Wicker, E. O’Connor.
Guitar—L. Harrison.	.
The Class in Harmony passed an excellent, examination. We shall so<>n V st the knowledge of Theoretical Music in the various classes, and hope to be able to report good progress.
GERMAN.
1st Class—M. Klotz, M. Kengel, L. Pfeiffer, S. Harris, E. Harris, M. Faxon.
2nd Class—L. Dennehy, R. Engel, B. Golson, R. Roscesco, M. Kaeseberg.	'
3rd Class—G. Phillips, C. Miller, L. Kelly, E. Schnoback.
FRENCH.	-
1st Class—N. Gross, A. M. Clarke, M. Kearney, R. Spier, J. and M. Walker, J. Kearney, M. Letourneau, M. Pcquette, L. Dent, L. West. _■	. _	- •	*
2nd Class—L. Ritchie, M. Barry, J. Stimson, C. Sottrup,
J. Kreigh, L. Tinsley; M. and E. Thompson, M. Resch, B. Wilson, S. and A. Harris, N. Langdon,’M. Brown, L. Niel.	’	•
3rd Class—L. Bradford, A. Smith, A. T. Clarke, A. Conahan, F. Moore, M. Reily, C. Morgan, K. Morehead, K. and M. Hutchinson.
.	PLAIN SEWING.	’ ’
R. Spier, R. Devoto, N. Brown, L. Niel, M. Kearney, N. Langdon, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, M. Wicker, V. Ball, L. Ritchie, M. Letourneau, E. Boyce, A. Curtin, F. Moore; L. Bradford,. N. Ball, J. Bennett, L. Wyman,'A..'Minton, R. Roscesco, M. Barry, N. Foote, M. Bell, M. Cummings, F. Lloyd, J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. T. Clarke, E. Sweeney, E. Bohan, J. Stimpson, R. Burke, L. Henrotin, E O’Connor, R. Canoll, L. Kelly, N. McAuliffe, M. Railton, A. Boser, C. Morgan, K. Engle.
DRAWING.
1st Class, 1st Div.—Misses N. McEwen, L. Ritchie.
2nd Drv.—M. Kaeseberg.
2nd Class, 1st Div.—R. Neteler, A. Boser, M. Cum-’ mings, C. Morgan.	. .
2nd Div.—C. Sottrup, M. Resch, L. Harrison, G. Phillips, E. Ross, M. O’Connor, M. A. Schultheis, M. Ewing.
3rd Class—A. Cullen.
WATER-COLOR PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses N: McEwen, B. Wade, N. McAuliffe.
2d Div.—C. Sottrup, M.Kaeseberg, L. Ritchie, C.Morgan.
3rd Class—E. Sweeney, M. R. Klar, L. Henrotin. oil painting. .	.
1st Class—Misses L. Black, B. Wade, A. Keeline, ,,L. Pfeiffer.	-
2nd Class—M. Cummings, L Arnold. junior dep t.	•
E. Richardson, A. Smith, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, M. Resch, M. Carlin, K. and M. Hutchinson, K. Morehead, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Reynolds, M. Walsh, A. Harris, L. Harrison, H. Hand, M. Pritchard, M. Ewing, E. Lang, -M. Brown, J. and M. Thompson, H. Peak, M. Summers, N. O’Meara, M. A. Schultheis, J. Brown, A. Koch, A. Cullen, D. Allen, L Germain, B. Golsen, L. Walsh, E. Lappin, E. McDougall, E. Schnoback, A. Ewing, A. Goewey, K. Lassen, G. Barry, L. West, L. Lynch, M. Ware, E. Simpson, N. and I. Mann, C. Hughes, E. McDougall, J; Keedy, F. Dee.	'
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
Tihslnstitution, incorporated in 1814,enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with s»ll the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.	-
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Bailroad, is easy of access'from all parts of the Uuited States. ••
-	TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 60
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and.Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	-	--- _ -	-	12 50
Use of Piano, -	- - -	- --	-	-	-	-	-	- 10 00
Use of Violin,'-- -- -- - — - .- ------ -	2 00
Drawing, ------------1500 Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, - - - -	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 16 00 Studeuts who spend their'Sunlmer Vacation at the College are '
charged, extra. ----------	35 00
Payments'to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc , at'enrrent prices; -	•
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For furtherparticulars, address .	.	.
Rev. A. LEBIONNIER, C.S.C.
-	-	-	-	President.
THS OLD “RELIABLE” DWIGHT HOUSE, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
■A/TESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the JyjL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and -furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public
may rely on finding the best accommodation.	;
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay.	•
.	.	JERRY’KNlGHT.ip^ - , - : I
Cappain MILLS, f proprietors.
nov 15—tf
328
THE SCHOLASTIC.
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
C-A. UST ZD YT FACTODY, 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
BROKEN CNDY _____ i5e.
FINE MIXED CNDY _____ 25c.
CHOICE MIXED CANDY -	-	-	-	35c.
CARAMELS ______	35e.
MOLASSES and. CREAM CANDY -	-	25c
I*roj>oi’tioiia'tely I^oav Prices to AVIiole-sale Ciislr Buyers.
WANTED—For Cash—Five or ten tons of Maple Sugar
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door,
apt 25-tf	.
A Great Offer to All!
$1.00 WORTH
SEEDS
AND
Vick’s Guide
. GIVEN
A.WA.Y-.
Young Folks’ . Rural
AND TWO
Lovely Cluomos.
The "STounis Tolle’s Kni’al is pronounced the" ’‘handsomest and best paper for Young People published." It is for city or country, combining numerous features not found in any other periodical, and has proved a wonderful success. For every subscription received before May 1st. at the regular single subscription price for one year, only §1.50. we will give (in addition to the paper) two lovely landscape chromos. "Morning on the Mississippi.'' and " Sunset on the Sie’ran." mounted and postpaid: Vick's Floral Guide for one year, andan order on Mr. Vick for Oue I>’ol-lar’s Wortll Of Flower or Vegetable Seeds (such as you may select) to be sent by him. postpaid!' Inclose the money to 11 N. F. -LEWIS. Publisher, Chicago, saying what you -wish.
Sample of paper, 10 cents, postpaid.
. Apr. 18—Gt.
Michigan Central Railroad
Time Table.
From and after March 1st, trains on the Michigan Central Railroad leave Niles as follows:
.	TRAINS EASTWARD.
Night Express, -	--	--	--	--	12.22 a.m
Mail. -	--	--	--	--	--	9.10 a.m
Day Express, ---------	-	11.5'ia.m
Accommodation, -	--	--	--	--	7.35 p.m
Way Freight, -	--	--	--	--	8.00 a.m
TRAINS WESTWARD.
Evening Express, ...	.	-	-	.	- 2.20 a.m
Pacific Express, -	--	--	-	-	--	5.10 a.m
Accommodation,	-	6.50	a.m
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	-	4.2 > p.m
Day Express -	-	-	-	-	- ■ -	-	-	-	5.20 p m
Way Freight --	-------	-	1.45 p.m
AIR LINE DIVISION.
EASTWARD.
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	9.15 a.m
Three Rivers Accommodation ------- 7.40 p.m
Atlantic Express -	--	--	--	--	9.0) p.m
Way Freight -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	10.39 a.m
WESTWARD.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Arrive	-	-	-
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	-
Pacific Express ----------
Way Freight- -	--	--	--	--
SOUTH BEND BRANCH.
645 a.m
3.50 p.m
5.05 a.m
- 5.1'5 p.m
After May 25, 1874, trains leave South Bend daily on this road, going north:	4.
815 a. M., arriving in Niles at 8.55 A. 31.
11.10 a. M., arriving in Niles at 11.50 a. 31,
3 00 p. st., arriving in Niles at 3.40 p. 31.
7.00 P. si , arriving in Niles at 7 40 p. 31.
. Leave Niles daily for South Bend:
6.30 a. 31., arriving in South Bend at 7.10 a 31.	-
9.20 a. 3i.. arriving in South Bend at 1O.00 a. 3t.
12.45 P. 31, arriving in South Bend at 1.25 P. 31.
4.35 P. 31., arriving in Sou-h Bend a. 5 15 p. 31.
The Sunday trains'!eave South Bend at 9.00 a. m. and 7.00 p. 31., and leave Niles at. 8 00 a. m. and 5.0J p. 3r.
Depot in the Fourth Ward. S. R. King, Passenger and Fr< ight Agent.	'	-
J. S. HOPPER, General Agert.
L. S. & M. ^RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 a. 31. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 10 39; Cleveland, 2.45 r. 31.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. si.
10.33 a. 31. (No. 2), Mail, over Main and Air Lines; Arrives at Elkhart, 11.15 p. 31.; Toledo, 5 35 p. 3i.
12.27 a 3t. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. si.; Buffalo 4 05 A. 31.
9.11 p. 3i. (No. 6>. Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05: Buffalo, 1.10 r."3i.
7.54 p. 31. (No. 10) Michigan Accomodation. Arrives at Toledo 2.30 a. si.. Ulcveland'7.1-5 a. 31., Buffalo 1’10 r. sr.
GOING WEST.
3.20 a. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 50 a. 3i.
4.50 a. 31. (No 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago. 8 50 a. 3i.	.
5.35 p. 31. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrivesat Laporte, 7.00; Chicago, 9.3JP. si.
4.51 p. 3t. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte.
5.45; Chicago, 8 20.
8.00 A. 31. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 9.00 A. 31 . Chicago 11.30.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J 17. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.	.
J. H Parsons, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS. Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
JS7” Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7,9, ana 71; East, Nos. 2 and 70. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 12.30 p. 31., running through to Wabash. Through tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets. Inrurance tickets, It. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to i lie Ticket Agent.
P£XNSTLVAHIU CSXTBAL DOUBLE TEA0K EAILE0AD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New fork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00' p. m. 1 Arrivesat New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.41 a.m.*
3rd train “	'•	9.00. p. m. |	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phietphia.
F. R. MYEKa, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag't. Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass't Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second-day.___._________________________________
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:	■
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisi- ; ana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Slain Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning
Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
arrive.
*8:00 p.m
*4:30 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
*9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 .m.
57:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
LEAVE.
♦9:30 a.m.
*9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
t6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:45 p.m.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex cept Saturday. 8 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
Z.OUISVIZ.&S W. AL3AN7 & CHICAGO H.R.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows: GOING NO NTH.
Pass.... Freight. Freight, Pass....
GOING SO G T H Pass...................8.23	p.3i.
Freight........10.47 a.si
Freight.........4.45 A.3t
Pass....,.......1153 A.3I
H. N. CANIFF, Agent
.7 29 P. .2.48 A. .8 57 P.
31.
31.
.9.24 a. m.