I’UJ3L.ISTI3ED WEEKLY A.T ^OTRE T>AME.
f to the of the ^tu^eutsi.
“ LABOR O2MCIVIA. VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., SEPTEMBER 19, 1868. No. 3.
Classes and Professors.
Now that the first session of the Scholastic Year 1868-9 has fairly begun, and that every student has entered the race in which he can compete if not for a glorious prize, at least for a share in the spoils and booty which Science promises to hjs efforts, we may be allowed to speak of the present organization of classes and thereby make the parents of the industrious youths of Notre Dame acquainted with our recent arrangements. We gave in one of the preceding numbers the names of the members of the faculty, to which we may now add that of Prof. M. F. Calovin (who arrived a few days ago from Montreal), also F. X. Derrick, S. S. C., and Bro. Richard, S. S. 0., who have been called to teach in the University. We will now present to the parents a complete list of the classes, affixing to each class the name of the professors thereof. It will, no doubt, please them to know under which professors their sons receive instruction in the different branches, and it will give them an opportunity of following their progress and noting every move for better or worse to which a student is liable during the course of the scholastic year Moreover it is the best mode of informing parents of the actual standing of their sons in the classes; provided their sons have told them by letter the classes which they are following, and how much time -will yet be required to complete the course embraced, whether Classical, Scientific or Commercial. With this as a preface we now come to the list beginning with the highest branches.
Dogmatic Theology—Rev. F. Ferdinando, S.S.C. Moral Theology—Rev. A. Granger, S. S. C. Evidencesof Christianity-Rev. A. Granger, S.S.C. Moral Philosophy—Rev. M. B. Brown, S. S. C. Logic and Mental Philosophy—Rev. M. B.
Brown, S. S. C.
Chemistry—Rev. T. Vagnier, S. S. C.
Natural Philosophy—Rev. T. Vagnier, S. S. C. Geology, Mineralogy,)
Natural History, >• Rev. J. Carrier, S. S. C. Physiology, Botany, j
Anatomy and Surgery—Rev. L. Neyron, M. D.
History,	'I
Modern, Ancient, j
Rhetoric,	£ Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M.
General Literature, I
Astronomy,	J
Calculus,	)
Analytical Geometry, >• Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M.
Surveying,	j
Trigonometry—Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M.
First Greek—Rev. D. J. Spillard, S. S. C.
First Latin and Ancient Literature—Prof. J.
A. Lyons, A. M.
Second Greek—Prof. J. Marrin.
Second Latin, Humanities—Prof. J. A. Lyons.
Third Greek—Mr. J. O’Connell, S. S. C.
Third Latin—Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.
Fourth Greek—Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M.
Fourth Latin—Prof. J. Marrin.
Fifth Greek—Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M. Fifth Latin—Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M, Sixth Latin—Mr. Jacob Lauth, S. S. C. Seventh Latin, First Div.-Mr. J. McNulty, S.S.C. Seventh Latin, Second Div.—Mr. J. O’ConnelL
First Geometry—Prof. W. M. Ivers, A. M.
Second Geometry—Prof. J. Marrin.
First Algebra—Prof. W. M. Ivers.
Second Algebra—Bro. Joseph Cal., S. S. C.
Third Algebra—Prof. A. J. Stace.
Commercial Law, First Book-Keeping, Second Book-Keeping, Third Book-Keeping,
- Prof. G. Tong, M. A.
First Grammar, S’r Dep’t—Prof. J. A. Lyons.
Second “	“	“ Pr°f- J- Marrin.
Third “	“	“ Prof C. J. Lundy.
First Arithmetic, S’r Dep’t—Prof. W. M. Ivers. Second “	“	“ Prof. A. J. Stace.
18	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Third Arithmetic, S’r Dep’t—Prof. J. Marrin. Fourth . “	“	“ Bro. Joseph Cal.
First Grammar, J’r Dep’t—Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C. Second	’ “	“	“	Bro. Joseph Cal.
Third	“	“	“	Mr. J. Lauth.
Fourth	“	“	“	Bro. Richard, S. S. C.'
First Arithmetic J’r Dep’t—Bro. Joseph. Cal, Second	“	“	“	Bro. Benjamin.
Third	“	“	“	Prof. W. M. Ivers.
.	Fourth	“	“	“	Bro. Richard.
Reading, S’r Dep’t—Mr. F. X. Derrick.
' First Reading, J’r Dep’t—Prof. J. A. Lyons. Second “	“	“ Bro. Benjamin.
Third “	“ Bro. Richard.
Geography, S’r Dep’t—Bro. Richard. Geography, J’r Dep’t—Bro. Benjamin. Spelling, S’r Dep’t—Prof. M. Calovin. First Spelling, J’r Dep’t—Bro. Benjamin. Second	“	“	“	Mr. J. McNulty.
Third	“	“	“	Bro. Richard.
First Penmanship, S’r Dep’t 1 Second “	“	“ > Prof. C. Lundy.
First	- “	J’r	“ )
First Catechism and Sacred History, Junior Dep’t—Mr. John Lauth.
Second Catechism and Sacred History, Junior Dep’t—Mr. Jacob Lauth.
Languages.	.
First French,)
Second “	> Prof. J. Calovin.
Third	“	’
First German, S’r Dep’t—Rev. J. Ruthman,S.S.C. Second “ J’r “ Rev. P. Lauth, S. S. C. First German, S’r (Extra Div.)—Rev. P. Lauth. Second German, J’r Dep’t—Prof. M. Baasen. Second Div. “	“ Prof. M. Baasen.
Third German, S’r Second Div.,
Rev. J. Ruthman. Mr. Jacob Lauth.'
Third German, J’r Dep’t—Prof. M. Baasen. Italian—Rev. F. Ferdinando.
Fine Arts.
SteS Drawing, i Prof. C Von Weller, Fig. & Landscape, “	) .	. v. A.
Vocal Music:	) -r, - ,T	. ,r
1st, 2d, & 3d, Classes, ( Pro£ Corby’ A-Instrumental Music.—Piano, Violin, Flute, Guitar, etc. '	'
Bro. Basil, S. S. C. ' M. Girac, LL. D.
Bro. Leopold, S.S. C.’
Bro. Joseph, S. S. C. _
■ Professors.
University Coronet Band—Prof. J. O’Neill. Choir—Prof. M. Girac, leader.
The above list of classes may undergo some changes during the course of the present' session. Any such change will be made known in The Scholastic Year.
In order to give a greater impetus to the studies, we will publish the names of the’ students who distinguish themselves by their application and marked improvement in their classes. The following order will be observed for the weekly lists of Honorable Mentions which will be divided into four series, or four weeks, so that each month will bring round the -complete list of Honorable Mentions. 1
The first series will comprise the following classes: Moral Philosophy, Logic, Rhetoric, Composition, Grammar, Orthography, Penmanship Junior, Geography.
The second series will comprise the classes of Greek, Latin, Reading, Penmanship Senior, Catechism, German and French.
The third series, will comprise the classes of Astronomy, Calculus, Analytical Geometry, Trigonometry, Algebra, Arithmetic and Book-Keeping.
The’ fourth series will comprise the classes of Chemistry, Natural Philosophy, Geology, Mineralogy, Natural History, Botany, Physiology, Anatomy, Drawing, Vocal Music, Instrumental Music, Choir and Coronet Band.
Besides the publishing of the aforesaid Honorable Mentions, common both to the Senior and Junior Departments, we will not fail to publish every week the reports of the Competitions which are to take place in the classes of the Junior D epatment. For we must inform our friends that they may expect frequent reports from that department, the Juniors being particularly an ambitious class of young men and albeit a smart one, this being said to their honor and that of the Senior Department, which is composed mainly of students formerly of the Junior Department.
The Junior classes have therefore been divided into two divisions whose feuds will be settled every week under the guidance of their respective leader. The victorious division alone will have the names of its members printed in The Scholastic Yeab. The defeated divisions will, we hope, retrieve their bad luck and take the lead at the next opportunity afforded them. • Every month the divisions will be reformed by a new election.
. We intend to speak in this number of the prizes which are to be awarded at the end of this Scholastic Year to the laureate of each Department, Classic, Scientific, Commercial and Prepar-
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
19
It.
r
atorybut this will be such an important item both on account of the intrinsic value of the prizes and of the occasion in which they will be given, (it being during the festival days of the silver Jubilee of Notre Dame, and of the first solemn meeting of its alumni), that we will- reserve ourselves to speak of it at another time. This much, however, we will say, that none shall be considered a competitor who will not have followed the regular course such as marked in the Catalogue.	•*

Arrival of Students at Notre Dame.
September 12th.
John C. Leunig, A. Adolphus Scheeffer, Walter J. Wilstach, Charles Jevne, A. H. Menard, '
Mount Vernon, Ind. (C	«
Lafayette, Ind.
Chicago, Ill. Tremont, Ill.
September 14th.
George H. Readfield, William B. Clarke, Gabriel H. Chane, Alex. J.' Chane, Stephen Corby,
Adamsville, Mich.
Chicago, Ill. ’ Detroit, Mich.
*	«	u
u	u
September 15th.
Charles H. Ilgenfritz, Thomas Heery, W. A. J. Ryan, Milton Hite, Jr.
Clarksville, Iowa.
(C	.c
Grand Rapids, Mich, Martinsville, Ind.
September 17 th.
Martin Spellman, Patrick Shannahan, Frank J. Obert, James O’Reilly,
Lockport, Hl.
Joliet, Ill.
Reading, Pa.
Sodality of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
Notre Dame, dedicated, as it is, to the Blessed Mother of God. The platform with the altar upon it is some eighteen feet in height and of a proportionate breadth; under a canopy of lace is a statue of the Blessed Virgin, surrounded on all sides, by innumerable particolored glasses, candles, vases, flowers, both natural and artificial, and all encompassed by the beautiful plants and shrubbery for which the Junior study-hall is so eminently noted. On this evening, the altar was brilliantly illuminated, and the light, shining and reflected through the many colored glasses, lent a beautiful contrast to the surrounding purity and whiteness. This beautiful display was made by the combined efforts of those well-known artists, Brother Benjamin and Brother Florentius. It rivals, nay, surpasses tyfar anything similar around the University of Notre Dame.
But to return to our subject:—
'The meeting was opened by the Very Rev. Father Granger, who made a few remarks relative to the origin, progress, and present state of the Sodality, also to its object, and to the devotion which should be given by Catholic students to the Blessed Virgin Mary. His words were given in Father Granger’s usual pious and happy way, and he was listened to throughout with the most profound attention, which gave evidence of how well his kind advice was received and appreciated.
In accordance with the wants of new Catholic students, medals and tickets of admission were next issued to those in need. The next proceeding was the election of officers for the ensuing five months, which resulted in the unanimous choice of the following :
Director—Very Rev. A. Granger, S. S. C. Ass’t Director—Bro. Florentius.
President—James F. Ryan.	.
Vice-President—Edward Bahm.
Secretary—JohnW. Coppinger.	-
After a few well chosen remarks by the Assistant Director, the meeting adjourned.
Inorder to reorganize this beautiful and estimable Society, which has exerted such a salutary influence over its young members, Very Rev. Father Granger called a meeting on Tuesday evening last.
Being composed of Junior students only, the meeting was held in their study-hall, which was brilliantly illuminated by the magnificent altar lights at the northern end. We cannot forbear giving a description of this beautiful ornament of
Contributors to The Scholastic Year are respectfully notified that all articles should be given in, to the Rev. Director of Studies, before eleven o’clock A. M. Wednesday.
At.t, reports from Societies, and short articles, should be given to the same before eight o’clock Thursday morning.
No articles for The Scholastic Year will be received at the Ave Maria printing office.

I*

20	the scholastic teas..
TIic Choral Uniozs.
Preliminary. •	/
Art. 1. There shall be at Notre Dame a Musical Society called The Choral Union, the principal object of which is the performance of the religious music required for the service of the Church; and the secondary, the rendering, as far as the Church service will permit, of selections from distinguished composers both ancient and modern.
Art. 2, The said Society shall form the choir of the University ofNotre Daine. —
Art. 3. The Choral Union will be composed of students selected from the Senior and Junior Departments, after a proper examination of their voices.
Art. 4. The Choral Union will be administered by a body of officers consisting of a President, a Conductor. Secretary, Treasurer and four Censors, one from each vocal department composing the Society; that is, one from the Soprani, one from the Alti, one from the Tenori, and one from the Bassi. The officers will be elected by the Society at the first general meeting.
Art. 5. The active' members of the Choral Union will consist of 12 Soprani, 4 Alti, 10 Tenori, 10-Bassi, and 1 Accompanist.
If, after being regularly constituted, the Society decide upon admitting honorary members, this will be effected in a general meeting of the active members.
Organization of the Society and Duties of -	the Members.
Art. 6. The students, to be admitted as members of the Choral Union, shall engage their services from the day of their entering the Society up to the last Wednesday of June. Those who could not be present during that period of time for any reason whatever, must declare it, and without any further inquiry they shall be excluded from membership in the Society. If there be any exception from submitting to this regulation, the Society convened' in general assembly shall decide.
The students, and any other menjbers,.when received, must pledge their honor not to absent themselves from the Church service, or from any other duty, they may be requested to perform,’ such as rehearsals, exhibitions, private entertainments &c, &c,—the case of serious sickness excepted.
Art. 8. There are two kinds of instruction which the singers shall be obliged to follow exactly, 1st, the practice for the performance of Church music at 3J^ o’clock P. M. for the Tenors, and at 4 o’clock for the basses, every day except on Wednesdays and Sundays. 2d, a course of instructions in music thrice a week, from eight o’clock to fifteen minutes to nine, P. M. This course of lessons will be given every second evening, and shall be attended to by the Tenori and Bassi so that the two voices shall never meet at the same time unless the conductor of the Society decide otherwise.
The members of the Junior Department will meet at seven o’clock in the room of the Conductor,—the Soprani, on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays; the Alti, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. They will be liable to the penalties mentioned in the first part of Article 10. .
Art. 9. On Saturday, the attendance at 3^ o’clock instruction will not be, as to time, so strict as the other days; a certain delay will be granted to go to^the trunk-room.
Art. 10. A fine of five cents shall be levied for coming five minutes too late to the 3^-o’clock practice, and fifteen cents for absence.
No fine shall be imposed for delay in coming to the evening instructions, but a fine of ten cents shall be paid for a total absence, unless a good reason be given to justify the absence.
Art. 11. General rehearsals shall take place on Wednesday forenoon, at an hour apppointed by the conductor and announced, if possible, in the refectory. The conductor shall also take care to inform the singers of these rehearsals one or two days in advance that they may arrange their occupations so as to attend, for no excuse of absence shall be received except for serious motives, and a fine of twenty-five cents shall be imposed upon any one absent on such important occasions. If any other rehearsal take place on any other day than the one mentioned above, the singers will be informed, and they shall be obliged to attend.	’
Art. 12. There will be a committee of members (one President, two judges, and one reporter), whose duty will be to decide upon the excuse from, or attendance to, the rehearsals whenever there will be objections to paying the fines incurred by the singers. This committee will be elected by the members of the Society, for the space of ten months, and shall enter into office at the first meeting of the Society. .
Art. 13; The conductor of the Society- shall,
THE SCHOLASTIC, YEAR.
ex officio, be president of said committee, and he ■will also fix the days on which it will be invited to meet.
Art. 14. The fines, both approved and confirmed by this committee, shall within three days be collected by the reporter and handed to the Treasurer. (.The fines inflicted by the Censors, according to Article the Fourth above, will be collected by them and given to the same officer).
Art. 15. The co-operation of Professors who wish to connect themselves with the Choral Union will be cheerfully and thankfully accepted. For them a single attendance at 3% practice' will be required, but they will not be dispensed from attending general rehearsals, at which their presence is earnestly desired.
Art. 16. The officers mentioned in Articles . 3d and 10th, except the President and the Conductor, will be taken from among the students only.
Art. 17. The present regulations will be presented to theLacceptation]of the Society, and will not be obligatory until accepted by the majority of its members. If change or modification will be deemed necessary, a committee will be formed, to make them'and present them to the members of the Union convened in a general meeting. ,
Ajit. 18. An entrance fee of twenty-five cents shall be paid by every Unionist on being admitted into the Society, after which a monthly contribution of ten cents will suffice and exempt from any other charge. The funds of this money, and that occurring from fines, will be employed in the purchase of good secular compositions, the music for Church service being supplied by the University.
Notre Dame, Sept. 7th, 1868.
Archconfratei’nity.
Last Sunday the Archconfraternity, the most ancient society in • the house, was reorganized under the guidance of Very Rev.
Father Provincial. The election of officers terminated as follows:
Director—Very Rev. Father Granger, S. S. C.
President—James Edwards.
Vice-President—James Cunnea.
Recording Secretary—James Dickinson.
’ Corresponding Secretary—Thomas O’Mahony.
• Librarian—John Grogan.
Holy Angels Society.
The first regular meeting of the Holy Angels Society was held Sunday Sept: 13th, for the purpose of electing officers and of reorganizing the society for the present scholastic year of 1868-9.
The following were the officers'elected: -
President—Rev. D. J. Spillard, S. S. C.
First Vice-President—Lawrence F. Wilson.
Second Vice-President—James Deehan.	' -
Secretary—P. O’Connell.
Librarian—M. M. Foote.
Assistant Librarian—John McHugh.
Censor—Asa Wetherbee.	P. J. O’Connell, Sec.
United Scientific Association.
The first regular meeting of the “United Scientific Association” ^for the Scholastic Year 1868-9, was held on Sunday evening, the 13th inst., at 7)4 o’clock, in the College Library.
The meeting was called to order by the Rev. Director, who, after a few earnest remarks, ordered the Constitutions to he read and the roll of the ol'd members to be called. This being complied with, an election of the officers for the ensuing year took place, and resulted as follows:
Director—Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C.
Secretary—A. B. White.
Treasurer—H. B. Keeler. '
Librarian—T. O’3Miony.	v
The Rev. Fathers Cat r ->r pud Vagnier, and ProC T. E. Howard, are, ex Officio, the t -..ds respectively of the Departments of Natural Sciences, Phj s: s and Mathematics, and have kindly consented to continue the course of professorial Lectures during the following year.	-
It will be the earnest endeavor of the members of the U. S. A. always to aim high, both in the estimation of their superiors and fellow-students, by their irreproachable behavior and gentlemanly deportment, and in the pursuit of knowledge by a diligent application to their respective studies.	Reporter.
Saint Cecilia Philomathean Society.
The first regular meeting of this society was held on Tuesday evening, September loth, for the purpose of reorganization, under the direction of Rev. A. Lemonnier, S. S.C., Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; Prof. C. Von Weller, F. R. A., Director of the drama. Having proceeded to the election of officers, it resulted as follows'
Vice-President—James Ryan.
Vice-President, Dramatic Department—F. Ingersoll.
Recording Secretary—Mark Foote.	‘
Corresponding Secretary—John McHugh.
Treasurer—John Coppinger.	'
1st Censor—James Dooley.
2d Censor—William Clarke.
Assistant Director of Readers—D. J. Wile.
1st Librarian—Asa Wetherbee.
2d Librarian—L. Wilson.
Sergeant at Arms—R. McCarthy.
The President then arose, and. in a few well-turned remarks, pointed out the necessity of order to the well-being and ultimate success of the society, concluding by introducing Prof. Von Weller.
Professor Von Weller assured the St. Cecilia Philomatheans of the pleasure he experienced in taking a part in the proceedings of their Society, and trusted that he should receive the hearty co-operation of all in his endeavors to make this the 'He plus Ultra society of Notre Dame; its age, constitution and the material, mental and physical, of which it was composed, all tending to make it such, adding, that all that was required was a firm determination to put their shoulders to the wheel and push on over all difficulties, to reach, as they ultimately would, that wished-for goal “ Success.”
The names of the several candidates for membership being pro-
23
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
posed, votes were taken and the following gentlemen were elected: Messrs. P. Cochrane, Prank Nicholas, Daniel Egan and Vincent Hackman.
The hour having grown late, the meeting adjourned in the good order for which they were so celebrated during preceding years.
De Fontano.
■ -
St. Edward’s Eitcrary.
Literary Rooms, No. 4, 1 September 16th, 1868. \
The first regular literary session of the St. Edward’s Literary Association was held on Tuesday evening, Sept. loth. In order of business the Librarian reported a valuable donation to the Library by the Hon. P. B. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio. His beautiful present consisted of a neatly bound copy of Lingard’s History of England, in thirteen vol umes. A vote of thanks to Mr. Ewing, for this generous donation, was then proposed and unanimously adopted. After the transaction of business, the literary exercises of the evening commenced, which consisted df the following Essays: “Mathematics,” by H. B. Keeler; “The Scenery of Lake County, Ill,,” by T. O’Mahony; “ The Growth of the American Republic,” byT. W. Ewing; and “Knowledge is Power,” by D. A. Clarke. Mr. Keeler’s Essay was of considerable length, written in an easy yet forcible style, and characterized by a cogency of reasoning which would have convinced the most sceptical of the great advantage of mathematical studies. Mr. O’Mahony’s discription of Lake County was written in a pleasing style, with j ust enough of “ figure” to render it attractive. Mr. Ewing’s Essay was a concise and well connected statement of the leading facts of our national history, with an occasional burst of poetic fervor, clearly showing that he possesses a fund of native talent, which needs but the equalizing influence of practice to make him a pleasing and forcible writer. Mr. Clarke’s production is one of which he may well be proud, and indicates in him the elements of a power which a more extensive knowledge will bring into wide and beneficial action. We certainly feel indebted to the Essayists of last evening for two hours of pleasure and profit, and confidently anticipate many more such treats from them'and other members of our energetic Association.	Reporter
When you hear a man say, “Life is but a dream,” tread on his corns and wake him up. Life is real.
Why is a child playing with a scythe like a conundrum ? Because it’s &jeu de mow.
Contributors.
Last year our college paper was published by a corps of young editors representing the talent of the Senior Department. The object for which this editorial corps was originally created was to assure week after week a liberal supply of articles and news to The Scholastic Year, and certainly the object was reached; for the paper could have been twice filled with the matter sent for publication, and many of the articles were respectfully declined or postponed for want of space in our columns. Now that experience has proved how fertile is the field of knowledge here, and how much we can expect from it, we have thought it useless to reserve to a few a privilege which may be extended to many among the students, and therefore throwing aside the trammels entailed by society rules and constitutions, meetings and debates often useless and not unfrequently annoying, we open the pages of The Scholastic Year to all who wish to put their names on the roll of contributors. We will publish in our next number the names of the contributors to The Scholastic Year. *
The Rev. Director of Studies will receive all applications from the students.	.
Several articles have been crowded out this week. All accepted contributions will appear sooner or later. ---------------------
The zeal of our separated brethren for guarding against the sin of idolatry (to which, it would seem, Christian people are so peculiarly liable) has ever been, since the days of their founder, Luther, most remarkable. Nor does it appear that this commendable zeal is in any danger of cooling—quite the reverse. We understand that the clergy of a leading denomination in the United States are discouraging the use of the popular phrase “ God grant,” for fear it should be understood as conferring divine honors on the Republican candidate for the Presidency.
St. Joseph’s Academy, Sept. 16th, 1868.
The following young ladies are deserving of honorable mention: First Senior, Miss A. Logan: Second, Misses A. Wheeler and Longly; Third, Misses F. Gallagher and M. Knoblock. Firstlnter-mediate, Misses A. Boyne and H. Logan; Second,MissesE.Elbell and E. Donahue. First Junior, Misses J. Fagely and E. Fagely; Second, Misses A. Brown and A. Donahue. Primary, Misses F. Com-perry, A. Hartman, A. Lovett and M. O’Day.
German, Misses EmmaBaston and J. Coonsman.. Music, Second Class, Misses M. Deming and H. Logan; Third, Misses A. Trainer and H. Knoblock. - Fourth, Miss M. Veesey.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
23
Saint Mary’s Academy.
September 17th, 1868.
St. Mary’s halls have now resumed, their usual air of active industry and innocent gayety. The daily arrivals keep up an agreeable excitement. Our former pupils return to us with expressions of delight at meeting their teachers and classmates. The strangers, though at first timid and homesick, are soon made to feel at ease; and the 1 natural buoyancy of their age, combined with the cheerful, useful routine marked out for each, soon dispels all shadows from their brows, and homesickness is forgotten in the generous struggle for scholastic honors.	*
On the Sth, the scholastic year was commenced by a High Mass celebrated by Very Rev. Father General, who addressed the pupils in language of fatherly -welcome and kind encouragement.
The good will manifested by the pupils to know and.observe the rules of the institution gives promise of a successful and happy year.
We here give the list of arrivals up to the present date; also the names of those who, having attended class for a week, were entitled to an honorable mention.
• Table of Honor, Senior.
Misses Anna and Kate Cunnea, Louisa and Lena Leoni, Laura and Lizzie Tong, Clara Foote, Alice Carpenter, Alice Carmody, Julia Davis, E. Longsdorf and S. Thomson, o
Honorable Mention.
Graduating Class: Misses Laura and Lizzie Tong.
First Class Sr.: Misses Alice Carmody, Anna Cunnea, A. Rahin, J. Dobson and N. Tracy.
Second Class Sr. : Misses S. Thomson, C. Foote, L. English, L. Leoni, A. Carpenter, E. Bland, E. Linsday, A. Bryson, L. Leoni and J. Chesebro.
First-Preparatory : Misses S. Beebe, A. Mast, S. O’Brien, A. Lyne, H. Thomson and J. Davis.
Third Preparatory: Misses J. Denny, Julia Davis and C. Hoerber.
Table of Honor, Junior and Minim.
Misses M. Letourneau, J. Wilder, L. Thomson, B. Meyer, B. Frensdorf, L. Metzger, A. Robson, M. McNamara, L. McNamara, K. Fulmer, B. Wilson and A. Byrnes.
Honorable Mention.
Second Preparatory : Misses Anna Boyles, Ada Woods and B. Meyers.
First Class: Misses M. Letourneau, J. Wilder, L. Thomson, M. McNamara, A. Bobson, B. Frensdorf, A. Byrnes and A. Longley..
Second Class, Jr.: Misses B. Wilson, Ada Garrity, N. Stuby and'F. Forman. ,
Arrivals.
Miss Emma Carr,	Coldwater, Mich.
“ H. Neil,	St. Louis, Mo.
“ LrNeil,	it	ci
“ Alice Carmody,	New Orleans, La.
“ A. Radin,	Chicago, Hl.
“ Leo Mills,	Denver City, Col.
“ L. McKinny,	Vicksburg, Miss.
“ A. Sturgis,	Sturgis, Mich.
“ Zelia Selby,	Memphis, Tenn.
“ M. Tuberty, *	Lafayette; Ind.
“ Leonina Leoni,	San Jose, Ill."
“ Louisa Leoni	Cl	cc
“ M. A. Coffey,	Chicago, Hl.
“ C. Carpenter,	Burlington/ Iowa.
“ K. Robinson,	Chicago, HI.
“ L. Boss,	CC	cc
“ F. DeCamp,	CC	It
“ J. Butters,	' cc	cc
“ J. Davis,	Clinton, Mich.
“ C. Robson,	Wataga, DI.
“ A. Garrity,	Chicago, Ill.
“ Ada Garrity,	CC	ll
“ M. McNamara,	.Omaha, Neb.
“ L. McNamara,	CC	cc
“ B. Meyer,	Battle Creek, Mich.
“ B. Frensdorf,	cc	cc
“ J. Denny,	Chicago, Hl.
“ L. Blaisy,	CC	cc
“ E. Plamondon,	cc	cc
“ M. Letourneau,.	Detroit, Mich.
“ C. Edwards,	Chicago, Hl.
“ A. Byrnes,	St. Louis, Mo.
“ R. Conall,	Chicago, Hl. '
“ A. Boyles,	Burr Oak, Ill.
“ Anna Boyles,	cc	cc
“ L. Tong,	Chicago, HL
“ Laura Tong,	cc	cc
“ B. Wilson,	Trenton, N. J.
“ E. Linsday.	Kokomo, Ind.
“ S. Beebe,	Grand Rapids, Mich.
“ M. Nash,	Rockford, Ill.
“ H. Sprochnle,	Chicago, III.
“ C. Hoerber,	CC	cc
24	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.				
CC	Kate Cunnea,	Morris, III.	«	M. Kirwan,	Chicago, Ill.
Ct	A. Cunnea,	CC	cc	IC	E. Kirwan,	CC	cc
ct	M Edwards,	Toledo, Ohio.	cc	Adeline Mathers	Elmor, Ill.
IC	J. Chesebro,	CC	cc	cc	M. Morn,	Leesburg, Ind.
Cl	A. Mast,	Springfield, Ohio.	c.	M. Arms worth,	cc	cc
ct	Clara Foote,	Burlington, Iowa.	cc	E. Cooney,	Syracuse, N. Y.
it	C. O’Brien,	CC	cc	cc	M. Clune,	cc	cc
it	N. Tracy,	cc	cc	cc	H. Higgins,	Peru, Ind.
a	K Medill,	Chicago, Ill.	cc	A Fulwiler,	cc	cc
Cl	E. Scott,	Cl	cc *	cc	E. Crouch,	Jackson, Mich.
Cl	L. English,	Albion, N. Y.	cc.	,K Kent,	CC	cc
cc	L. Jones,	Columbus, Ohio.	cc	L. Ingersoll,	Lafayette, Ind.
ct	K. Swinehart,	Lacon, Ill.	cc	E. Ruger,	cc	cc
u	A. Mulhall, -	St. Louis, Mo.	Ct	A. Bryson,	Chicago, Ill.
cc	S. Thomson,	Chicago, Ill.	cc	F. Hosmer,	Westville, Ind.
it	L. Thomson,	CC	cc	cc	E. Ritter,	Sacramento, Ind.
Cl	J. Dobson,	Blackberry Station, Ill.	' cc	M. Vaughn,	Jackson, Mich.
Cl	K O’ Toole,	Memphis, Tenn.	cc	M. Morril,	Lawton, Mich.
cc	M. O’Toole.	CC	cc	cc	M. Rumely,	Laporte, Ind.
cc	T. Lafferty,	Detroit, Mich.	Ct	Jennie Coffey,	Cincinnati, Ohio.
It	Emma Longsdorf,	Attica, Ind.	Ct	J. Byers,	Bainbridge, Mich.
cc	A- Longley,	CC	cc	cc	A. Darcy,	Joliet, Ill.
Cl	M. Reynolds,	CC	Cl	cc	J. Hynds,	Morris, Ill.
Cl	A Lyons,	cc	cc	cc	F. Taylor,	Cleveland, Ohio.	;
Cl	N. Burridge,	Benton Harbor, Mich.	cc	A. Ewing,	Lancaster, “
Cl	J. Haney,	Notre Dame, Ind.	cc	E. Ewing,	CC	cc
cc	K. Haney,	CC	— CC	cc	M. Toomey,	Goshen, Ind.
Cl	P. Smith,	Chicago, Ill.	cc	M. King,	Benton Harbor, Mich.
Cl	J. Davis,	Davenport, Iowa.	cc	M. O’Niel,	Kalamazoo, Mich.
c<	N. J. Strieby,	Ligonier, Ind.	cc	R. Mukautz,	Kankakee, Ill.
cc	H. Thomson,	Plymouth, Ind.	cc	K. Livingston,	CC	cc
CC	A. Mannick,	Mishawakee, Ind.	cc	A. Clark,	Chicago, Ill.
cc	J. Stephens,	Walkerton, Ind.	cc	M. Sherburn,	Princeton, Ind.
cc	0. Brady,	Adamsville, Mich.	cc	E Dunbar,	Brooklyn, N. Y.
cc	F. Grimes,	Elkhart, Ind.	cc	J. Lonergan,	Batavia, Ill.
cc	M. A..Cockran,	Chicago, Ill.	cc	M. J. Carraher,	Brimfield, Ill.
cc	N. L. Wilder,	CC	cc	cc	M. Durand,	South Bend, Ind.
cc	J. M. Wilder,	cc	cc	cc	A. Wiley,	Chicago, Ill.
cc	N. Simms,	cc	cc	U	E. Thompson,	Detroit, Mich.
cc	M. Shirland,	South Bend, Ind.	cc	M. E. Alexander,	Monmouth, Mich.
cc	M. Lasson,	Dixon, Ind.	cc	C. Carpenter,	Ottumwa, Iowa.
cc	J. Metzger,	Niles, Mich.	cc	E. Simms,	Chicago, Ill.
w	cc	A. Woods,	Louisiana, Mo.	cc	S. Gl.eeson,	CC	cc
cc	M. Johnson,	cc	cc	cc	L. Bader,	Laporte, Ind.
cc	M. Brady,	CC	cc	cc	C. Davenport,	Elkhart, Ill.
Ct cc cc	S. Brady, K. Fulmer, E. Bland,	cc	cc Notre Dame, Ind. Bourbon, Ind.	CC	C. Klien,	Philadelphia, Pa.
(C	N. Hillabold,	Syracuse, N. Y.	They who least shrink at the storm of fortune		
cc	Julia Gittings,	Dallas City, Ill.	are	always most vir	tuous and victorious in
cc	K. Zell,	Peoria, Ill;	the end.		
cc	N. Tabor,	CC	cc	The world is full of poetry, the earth is living		
cc cc	R. Rettig, M. Foote,	Peru, Ind. CC	cc	with its spirit and the waves dance to the music of its melody.		