£1) c	o (not i c
PUBLISHED WEEKEY AT NOTRE DAME.
gerotril ta the interests of the > Mentis.
“ LABOR OMjVIJL VINCIT.” X_______ -
Vol. II. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE LAME, IND., JANUARY 30, 1869. No. 21.
The Study of Philosophy as an Element in Education.
BY FANCIULLO.
No. III.—Physical Education.
(Continued.)
But that these and other exercises may have the desired effet, they must be taken judiciously. For example, those exercises which bring all the muscles into vigorous action at the same time should not be indulged in too frequently nor too long at a time; otherwise the blood which always endeavors to supply the demand of the muscles for nourishment may be too heavily taxed and finally exhausted. For tbi. reason severe exercise should not be taken after meals, while the process of digestion is going on, as the blood is then chiefly directed to the digestive organs, and if called away by muscular exertion, digestion will be weakened, and the body thereby deprievd of a portion of its full supply of nourishment. We must not how ever be over pirticular in this matter, as nature herself will warn us when too many of the mus cles are exercised at once; for in such a case we will experience a sense of general weariness, which will serve as an admonition for us to dis continue our exertion for a time. The reason of this weariness is that the supply of new material to the muscles is not equal to the waste occasioned by the vital action and the friction produced by exertion, in consequence of which the muscles grow weak instead of strong, and hence a continuance of exercise in such a case would be injurious. We mu^t then rest the mu-cles and thus stop the waste by friction till the system recovers its exhausted supply of nourishment Thi< applies eq-ially when only one or two of the muscles are brought into action. Another very im
portant condition of healthy exercise is, that it afford pleasure to the mind; for it is the mind which furnishes stimulus to the muscles, through the nervous apparatus, and hence if the mind is not pleased with the exercise, it will withhold that stimulus or supply it grudgingly and, consequently, very little benefit will be derived from such exercise. The following lines by Dr. Armstrong are quite apropos to this subject:
• “In whate'er you sweat, -Indulge your taste. Some love the manly toils, The tenuis some, and some the graceful dance; Others, more sturdy, range the purple heath, Or naked stubble, wnere, from field to field. The .-.minding coveys urge their lab’ring flight, ********* . He chooses best whose labor entertains Hie vacant fancy most. The toil you hate Fatigues you soon, and scarce improves your limbs.”
But, unquestionably, the most important condition is that the exercise be taken in pure, fresh air. For, as we remarked, when speaking of respiration, we inhale oxygen with the air, which serves to purify the blood, and in exhaling, we throw off carbonic acid gas, produced by combustion in the lungs, and the hydrogen left after the oxygen of the air inhaled has been exhausted. If the air, which we breathe, is vitiated, that is, if it does not possess a due proportion of oxygen, or if the carbonic acid gas and hydrogen are in excess, respiration cannot fulfil its proper office; the blood does not receive a due supply of the purifying principle, while the very matter exhaled fiom the lungs as useless or injurious, is again taken into them, thus adding to the impurities of the blood. This blood, with its freight of impurities, is circulated through the system, (more abundantly during exercise); deposits a vitiated material for the formation of the solids, and thus generates disease. For this reason all places of public resort—theatres, lecture halls, churches, schoolrooms, and esp; dally gymnasiums, should be well ventilated, in order that there may be a constant supply of pure air for the lungs,


ASTIC YEAR.
; 162	' '	THESOHOL
and that the vitiated matter thrown off in exhalation may be carried away by the passing air. A neglect of this precaution causes many a pale cheek, and hurries many a weak-lunged victim to an earlv grave.
To sum up results: Prudent exercise taken in the pure, fresh air, produces a more rapid and full respiration; the blood is supplied with a greater abundance of the purifying principle, and is consequently of abetter quality; the digestive organs are stimulated to healthy action ; the circulation of the blood is increased, and therefore a greater amount of healthy material i« deposited in the muscles and other solids of the ’ body; the whole structure is thus st’engthened and invigorated, life prolonged, and rendered more enjoyable, and the individual made capable of greater efforts for his own and others’ benefit. On the other hand, although exercise is < f paramount importance, the precautionary department of physical education cannot be neglected with impunity; for it is evident that, however well we discipline the body by exercise, if we, by imprudence, place obstacles to the good eff cts ot this discipline, we must be prepared to suffer the consequences, which in this case will be the defeat of our efforts to render our bodies sound and vigorous. Hence the two departments go handin-hand, and exercise a mutual influence upon each other, and hence a proper attention to both is necessary to gain the object of physical educa tion.
A complete physical education includes: first, a knowledge of all the principles of health, or, rather, a knowledge of all the functions of the body on which health depends; secondly, a knowledge of all the means necessary to secure a natural and healthy performance of these func tions and prevent any derangement of them; thirdly, a facility, acquired by practice, of applying these means properly in all circumstances With such a physical education, sickness would be as rare as ‘‘angels’ visits” among men; tor every case of sickness, except the decay of old age, is the result of some violation of the laws oI health. Now as the nr jority of men would cer tainly preserve themselves fiom sickness if they could, the prevalence of disease and pain shows the difficulty, if not impossibility, of acquirin' a complAe physical education. Therefore we say that our education in this department is complete when we know and observe the laws of health to such an extent as to keep ourselves in what is usually called a state of general good health.
This species of completeness may be’ acquired by all, if they will only give a reasonable degree of attention to what we have termed the preraution,-ary and disciplinary depa'tments of physical education. If men would but act reasonably in these particulars, all those serious forms of dis ease, which are now so common as scarcely to excite sympathy, would become as rare as roses in the frigid zone; suicide would be unknown; life would be a greater blessing, and be better appreciated than it is in a great number of cases at the present time; the money expended on hospitals, medicines, etc., might be employed iu promoting the general happiness of society; man, in fine, would be, more than he is now, the noble being which God made him, and be better qualified to fulfil his mission in life, and secure that eternal happiness which is the ultimate end of his being.
Having now seen the nature, object and divisions o! the three departments of Education, we proceed to show their conmction, mutual influence and relative importance. This will form the subj ct of our next paper.
Scientific Department.
No 4.—A Word about the Study of Zoology.
The intimate and important relations which exist, between man and the different branches of the animal kingdom, must ever he a strong incentive for young men to become acquainted with the forms, structuie, metamoi phosis, habits and dispositions of the various animated beings that surround them. They would be thus better fitted to act intelligentlv, in availing themselves of the benefits to be derived particularly from those sptcies that are susceptible of improvement by domestication; and, at the same time, be enabled successfully to maintain that influence and control over the ec momy of inferior organizations which their superior physical and mental developments, as well as Their interests, suggest and demand.
Dependent, as we are, to a great extent, on the animal kingdom for many of the comforts and luxuries of life, it is evident that the importance of a thorough investigation of the laws which govern this magnificent creation ot li ring organic beings, and of their r< larions to man's happiness and prosperity, cannot be too, highly esteeme 1-
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	163
But an accurate knowledge of the features, tood, development and mode of existence of the various animals with which we meet in our daily pursuits, as well as a clear perception of their varied relations to the vegetable and inorganic kingdoms of nature, is indispensable, if we would derive practical and constant benefits from them, by making them subservient to our material interest.
In an educational point of view, a systematic knowledge of the animals inhabiting our regions their habits, and their relations to man and the surrounding world, would furnish ample matter for refl -ction and study. We are warranted in predicting that Natural History, simply as a means of mental culture and mental development, is destined to take, at no distant day, a high rank among the studies consi lered essential, in our institutions of learning, to a successful training of the intellectual powers.
Aside from all those considerations, the study of animafed nature has a still higher significance1 the world of organic beings, as the material expression of the ideas of the Creator—the Supreme Intelligence of the universe—is certainly most worthy of the reverent exercise of the highest faculties of the human mind.
J. C. C.
Letter from Very 3tev. E. Sorin, S. SC., To Kev. Father COBBY, President of the University.
Paris, Jan. 2, 1869.
Reo. Dear Father:—The thought struck me today, that. I could break, this year, the monotony of your distribution of premiums at the close of the scholastic exercises, in June. Since the beginning of the institution, we have invariably rewarded our students with an assortment of books, more or less varied, sometimes of little interest to the pupils or their parents.
This year I would wish to make a change, and choose myself here, in this great metropolis of refined tastes in every department, what I would consider, not only a novelty, but something which most of your best students would prize more than books which they can purchase in every book store around.	.
Since all the rich families have returned from their country seats to the city, and especially since the opening of the holidays of the season, the stores and maganns in Paris have brought out such a wonderful variety of beautiful things, particularly suited to young France, that I make
no hesitation in saying that, as far as premiums are concerned, I will make your distribution far more interesting than any previous one ever held at Notre Dame.
But I must have the whole arrangement of that p >rtion of your programme to myself' next June: I mean I will give, myself, all the premiums, of my own choice, to the students you will designate, from the first to the last, from the tallest Seniors to the smallest of my dear little Minims; I must have the monopoly of theaffiir, instiad of the uld monotony. You will merely inform me in time of the exact number you intend distributing.
If Mother Angela, to whom you may mention my proposal, agrees to it for St. Mary’s, I will likewise take upon myself the same responsibility for the young ladies of the Academy. I feel that I will secure a great many fervent prayers for a safe voyage when I put to sea again for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
Should my proposition meet with a very favorable reception at both places, I might perhaps extend it even to some of our principal schools. Indeed, I would be very much pleased to assist this year, successively for a few weeks, at the exhibitions in all our houses, if an itinerary can be traced out and arrangements made, so as to give a full day to each place; and there again I would claim the same privillege viz., to give, myself, to every child entitled to a reward, something from Paris or from Rome.
I know, if you put it to the votes of the future recipients at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I shall be elected by acclamation to provide here in .Paris for all the premiums to be distributed next June.	-
The only thing I will now require of you, and all concerned, is to forward me at your convenience the same amount you generally expend for that, purpose.
In baste, and with the best wishes of the season, .	Your devoted in Christ,
•	E. SORIN.
’ It is unnecessary to say that we accept con cuore the above arrangement of Very Rev. Father General.	W. C. .
The students who are preparing themselves for the study of Law should not delay giving their names to the Prefect of Studies. It must be well understood that none except those who belong to the highest Classes of the Classical or Scientific courses should apply.
164	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
History.
An Essay read before the St. Cecilia PliilomaHiean Association by one of its youthful members.
A few words on the project of making history a department of the Association may not be amiss. Inseparably connected with onr mental progress, during the present and in the future, it cannot fail to be of the greatest interest and importance to us.
History in the first place is a true and systematical record of events which have occurred in the progress and development of a nation or country ; moreover, it is philosophy teaching by example. As being such a record it marks the progress, and necessarily contains all important and minor details of the construction of the different governments which have existed from time immemorial.
Now, in former ages there were very wise men, who gave the primary rules of the constitutions we now have as models to imitate; they certainly had imperfections, which only the progress of time and the labors of men could eradicate. Furthermore, all governments are founded on those rules which were laid down by the ancients, more especially on those of Solon. History has brought down to us these principles, together with all their modifications and amendments, as applied to different cases of necessity. As these have all been brought down compactly, it affords us modes of vigorous comparison and enable us to deduce the most solid ideas in regard to Government, besides which, they gives us modi Is of eloquence, the minute details of great improvements in Sciences, Arts and Literature, thus allowing the greatest scope for intellectual nobility..
I cannot help but quote as an example the epitome of the history of Greece and Rome. Those beautiful, yes, sublime models of literature, their immense progress in arts and sciences; bring vividly to our minds the benefit to be derived from the study of the subject of which I speak—Chrys-ostome, Demosthenes and Cicero, those world-renowned orators,; Michael Angelo and Canova those high-minded artists ; and St. Augustine, together with the more ancient writers who shed the lustre of their brilliant literary genius on the enraptured world, all have transmitted their works, or at least all tne details of their works, through the medium of history. Needless would it be for me to enlarge.on this subject; but I only bring it
I before you in order that you may consider the great-impetus it has given to mankind.
History is nt> longer merely esteemed an ornamental brane'', and he who would enter into society without its knowledge, w >uld fail ignominiously. As our entrance into society is the key of our future, and as we see that history plays so important a part in it, it would seem, and in fact really is, indispensible to our way to come.
You see, therefore, its actual necessity; let ns try to improve our time in this department of the St- Cecilian; and if we enter into it in the proper spirit, and continue so to remain, we will in after years thank the Association for the help it gave us and gratefully remember it in our successful days.	•
D. J. W.
College Bulletin.
Arrival of Students at Notre Dame.
January 26th.
John D. Hogan,	Chicago, Ill.
Denis J. Hogan,	“	“
January 27th.
Joseph F. Looby,	Salem, Mass.
Thomas A. Dillon,	Joliet, Ill.
January 29th.
Edward McDonough,	Lebanon, Ky.
Thomas A. Garrity,	Chicago, Ill.
Tables of Honor.
January 16th.
Senior Department.
H. Keeler, J. O’Rvilly, A. L. Fox, J. Menard, D. J. Diemer, J. Dickinson, J. Vocke, L. Dupler, T. O’Neill.
Junior Department.
V. Hackmann, G. Kahman, A. Cabel, C. Hutchings J- Nash, F. Dwyer, T. Arrington, C. Mar-antette, B. Roberts, J. Johnson, J. Roberts.
Minim Department. •,
Jas. Ford, H. Fear, G. Jenkins, H. Trentman, G. Trussell, H. Voorhees.	.
Senior Department.
Jan. 23d.—G. M. Webb, J. Curran, H. Owens, G. Shane, J. Cunnea, Jas. M. Grier, W. C Lence, M. A Spillard, J. E. Garrity, Win. Waldo.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
16»
Junior Department.
•Tan. 231—D. S. Bell, W. WilsV.u k, 0. Berdell, H. Odendahl, A. Hemsttg^r, F. Bulger, H. Ung. R. Broughton, J. Patnell, E Odendahl, D. Wile.
Minim Department.-
Jan. 231.—S. Beauben, C. Campau, J. Chando-nai, H. Fear, G. Gross, G. Jenkins, C. Jenkins, F. Obert, M. Smyth.
The Examination.
During the last days of the preceding week, Compositions were written in each Class on the matters studied during the session. The ohj-ct ot these Compositions was sufficiently explained in the report of the Committee on Examina’ion, which appeared in our last number; and though they have entailed extra labors on both the Professors and the students, still these labors have been fully rewarded. To the credit of the former, it is justice to say that the Compositions have been generally good, full of information not easily or usually obtained in an oral examination. The system of teaching, the good training of the Class, has been more strikingly brought out, and the difficulty formerly experienced in classifying the students, according to their proficiency, less ened. Be it said, moreover, that in particular cases the standing of some has been greatly elevated by means of the Composition; for, as the notes will testify, the written part of the Exam ination has proved most satisfactory.
Perhaps this result is owing to the fact that abundance of time for thinking, and the proper arrangement of the subjects under consideration, was given in one case, whilst in the other it was necessarily limited to a few minutes, allowing but a short pause between the questions and the answers.
However, as far as we know, from the reports of Examination and the various lists of not< s sent to the Director of Studies, the Examination—both written and oral—has been very successfully undergone by the majority of the students.
It was impossible to gather in time for publication in this number all the notes deserved by each student, such work demanding the compilation of over 70 lists of notes, some of which have not yet been handed in; but we will surely have everything ready for our next number, which will be sent to the parents instead of the regular Monthly Bulletin.
Mr. Wm. T. Johnson, who graduated in the classical course here hist year, has returned to his Ahna, Mater from the University of Michigm. We need not say that Mr. Johnson has formerly earned by his gentlemanly qualities as a student a warm welcome from his Professors and companions.
Outlines of Composition: by H. J. Zander & T. E. Howard, A. M. Published by Robert S. Davis & Co., Boston.	•
This very valuable book is intended to supply a want long felt in our schools, viz : a system of outlines of composition by which the young unpracticed writer may acquire the habit of thinking and properly arranging his thoughts. The book is divided into two parts. Part I, intended for beginners, contains 41 simple subjects carefully exhibited in outline, and three ot them written out in full, as examples. Part II, for more mature minds, containing 99 subjects of general interest, also in outline, which present to the student a wide range for the exercise of his originality and ingenuity in their treatment.
Such a book will be warmly welcomed in our class rooms and will prove a valuable aid to our young writers.
The reports of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society have been unavoidably crowded out for the last three weeks. We shall due them full justice next week.
^AINT HOARY’S ^CADEMY.
. St. Mary’s, Jan. 24th, 1869.'
Table of Honor, Sir.
Misses A. Radin, O. Brady, M. Johnson, J. Chesebro, E Hill, A. Bryson, N. Sherburn, S, O’Brien, A. Sturgis, H. Niel, N. Simms, F. Stevens, U. Gill.
Honorable Mention.
Graduating Clasx.—Misses L and L. Tong, K. Livingston, A. Ewing, E. Crouch, K. Cunnea, J. Hines.	-
Fir nt Senior.—Misses A. Carmody, A. Cunnea, E. Kirwin, M. Morrill, J. D -bson, E Ewing, A. Darcy, M. Carraher, L Lewis, L. McManaman, C. Bertrand, C. Davenport, E. Howard.
Second Senior.—Misses A. Mediil, C.- Thomp
166
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
son, E Bland. R. Rettig, C. Foote, E Lindsay, L English, L. Leoni, A. Carpenter, AI. King, "N. Thompson, S. Gleeson, L Chouteau, K. Carpenter, W. Corby, A. Walker, M Ogle, K. Armstrong. L. Corning, L. Chamberlain, E. Smith, K. Young, H Higgins.
Third Senior.—Misses AI. Toberty, A. Boyles, E Ruger, AI Kirwin, AL Shirland, S. Bc-ebe, R. Joslin, AL Dillon.
First Preparatory—Misses A. Alaste, A. Lyons, J. Gittings, AI Foote, AI Rnmely, E Da:st, J. Lonergan, S Coffee, E. Lonergan.
Second—Alisses H. Sprochnle, P Smith, J. Davis, A. Alinnick, E. Simms, K. Kline, AI. Vanhorn, AI. Alinor.	•
Third.—Aliases J. Denny, C. Hoerber, AI. Clune, A. Matthews, E. Seiler.
Table of Honor, Jr.
Alisses L Jones, AL Afton, L. Thomson, J. Walton, J. AIcMamara, B. Willson, R. Canoll and A. Garrity.
Honorable Afentlon.
First Preparatory.—blisses L. McKenney, and A. Dunlap.
Second.—Alisses A. Boyles, A Wood and M. Durant.
Third.—Alisses B. Aleyers, A Aletzger and AI. Letourneau.
First Class, Jr.—Misses J. Wilder and M. AIcNamara.
Second Class, Jr.-HLisses B: Henry, A. Decamp and AL Gildersleeve.
• Saint Mary's, Jan. 16,-1869.
On last-Friday the pupils at St. Alary’s had the satisfaction of presenting their long deferred New Year’s greeting to Alother Provincial, whose previous absence had quire disarranged their programme. The following was the order of the entertainment :
Grand Alarch...................Mi«s	E. Lilly
■WelcomeSong and Chorus....	^rnythe
°	( and the Pupils

The Twelve Offerings, or Gems of 1869, by the following young ladies:	.
January.......................Aliss	E. Crouch
• February..................Miss	A. Carpenter
March.........................Miss	S. Gleason
. April........................Aliss	R. Rettig
। Alay.......................Aliss A Ewing
June.....................     Miss	E Ewing
July......................Aliss C. Bertrand
August................... Aliss	L. Chouteau
September..................  Aliss	N. Young
October...... .........Aliss	L. AIcAIanaman
November......................Miss	C. Foote
December.....................Aliss	K. Aledill
The above young ladies, dressed in appropriate costume, formed aciicle, which revolved slowly, and as each appeared befme Alother Provincial she recited a short verse descriptive of the Gems peculiar to the month represented.
Aliss E. Crouch.
We have come, dear Mother, now to bring Oue humble, loving offering;
And wish to you, whom we revere, The choicest* gifts of this New Year, And if our prayers can aught obtain, Fur you ricn blessings we will gain.
The feasts of our Lord, and His Mother dear, We’ll call the gems of this New Year, And.we’ll offer you each precious gem, To deck your heavenly diadem ;
And now with loving, pure mtent, Each one tier j-wel* wi-1 present. I w.ll January bring	.
Like purest diamonds sparkling, . Icicles, fro-t. and glittering snow ’Neath noonday sun or moouliglit glow . Like million diamonds, grandly set In nature’s dazzling coronet.
lu the annual circle, well defined By Holy Church, this mouth you'll find Forms a link glorious, bright. Illumined with a heavenly light;
Compo-ed of mystic gems who-e rays Would blind a merely human gaze, For FaitU alone, with veiled eyes, .	-
.Could view these gems without surprise.
Seeing in each holy m.stery
God's power, love and majesty:
• The " Circumcision”—gem whose light'
Shone.to illume the Jewish night,	-
Ls followed by the "‘Orient Star” That guides the Magi from afar;
The “ Name of Jesus” with »we. Faith sees, ■ Brings heaven, earth, and hell on bended knees;
These mystic gems with joy we view
As treasure- Heaven offers you,	’
From which to draw peace, comfort, light— . Those heavenly jewels rich and bright.	'
Aliss A. Carpenter.
The “econd month, cold February, Brings as a modest .tributary . A pearl of radiance, softly bright, Gleaming with a silvery light; . The earth o’ersoread with purest snow,	'
A-fitting emblem seems to show	'
' ■ Of supernal innocence, comb'ned
With obedience of the heart and mind. • The •• Purification” pearl ’m-mg fea-ts, Assembles Patriarch, Prophet, Priest,
■U'j

	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.		167
	To view the Mother and the Son. The Immaculate and the “Holy Oue,” Submit to laws for slaves designed, Released from bonds tnat did uot bind. '•Nunc dlmUtis" Simeon sings, As Mary to his bosom brings Her Sou Divine. With turtle-doves And lighted taper, ou she moves— Fulfills the law, redeems her Son, And clasps again her *■ Holy Oue.” May this pearl of leasts to you e’er bring The pearl of peace; that you may sing With Simeon, when all time shall cease, ‘‘Dismiss thy servant, Lord, in peace.” Miss S. Gleason. Bleak March, a purple amethyst. By p.ercing winds so rudely kissed, Pre-ents this year a fitting gem To crown a thorny diadem. The feast of the “ Incarnate Word ” * By Mother Church is now deferred, The “Solemn Pa'Ch”—Gethsem.mi— Tho-e hours of mortal agony; Betrayed denied, that cruel morn ; The scourge, the purple robe of scorn, These are the themes bleak March supplies On which to rest our weeping eyes; These form the purple amethyst By cruel winds so rudely k ssed. But Io! our gem has grow n most bright, Resplendent m the Easter light One purple am- thyst now seems A ruby, in its ardent beams; And thus we wish, that when you wear This purple gem of griet and care, A glorious, brill ant Easter light May make your amethyst grow bright. Miss R. Rettig. This vernal month, with its gentle showers, Iti jovous sunshine, buds and flowers, Presents alterna;e, changing v.ews	’ A striped jasper in its hues. No marvel this, for Jesus risen,	. And free from mortal bonds and prison. With His presence m-w His children cheers Then from their sight He disappears. Thi* brings alternate joy and tears, And fills their hearts with hopes and fears. This month a jasper, then, we'11 call, Ami when a sorrow doth befall Our Mother, may the radiant light From Jesus' face make all things bright. Miss A. Ewing. Bright, beauteous month, what shall I say Of thee, 0 joyous, glorious May? M y dazzled eyes in thee doth find A cluster ot all gem-< combined Our Lady may, wi-h justice claim The month that bears her holy name, And then an Orient Pearl ’twould Lo Of spot'ess, matchless brilliancy; The “ Ascension” like a diamond shows,	. And “ Pentecost” like sapphire glows, * The feast of the Annunciation falling on Holy Thursday is deferred.	“ Corpus Christi"'— to all doth prove The crowning gem of Jesus’ love. But yet this month cannot depart Till “ Our Lady of the Sacred Heart,” Illumined by her Holy One Shines out in glory like the snn. This month we'll then a casket call Ot precious gems containing all That’s bright and beautiful to view; ' This casket now we offer yon, ■With the wish that in each gem you 11 find Sublimest joy of heart and mind. Miss E. Ewing. 0 joyous, ardent month of June! All nature seems in sweet attune With the grandeur of this peerless gem, This rn by set in diadem	- Of pearls and diamonds, linked with gold, Whose precious worth, cannot be told “ Cor Jesu, Cor Jesu/” “Oh, Sacred Heart!” What fervor doth this month impart; This gorgeous month, with its ruby bright, Bathed in the richest ruddy light, We offer, with the fond desire That in Its all-consuming fire Your heart may find gieat light and heat, And in Its wound a safe retreat. Miss C. Bertrand.	. Blest month, all ruddy with the glow 0> Precious Blood, whose constant flow Expands, delights, and doth impart Exquisite joy to Je.-us’ Heart. Here fancy fails, - how shall I dare	- This “ Precious Blood’’ to aught compare ! In silent awe, I bend the knee ! This month shall a rich chalice he, Set with emeralds, so softly bright As not to dazzle human sight: The “Visitation.” a mild-hued gem That decks Our Lady’s diadem, Doth now this holy chalice grace; And dear “ Mount Carmel” finds a place Of honor for her emerald rare. And thus those beiuteuus gems now share The holy privilege to be Companions to that mystery So grand, sublime, consoling, good: The mystery of the “ Precious Blood." Thar Blood in darned Our Lady's Heart: • She hastened quickly to impa-t To others that sweet flame supernal, By a visit loving and fraternal; Her canticle of joy she sings As highest graces n w she brings. See how her charity doth shine With splendor that seems most divine. These emeralds Mother, now we bring, With the wish that joyous you may sing “ U’»gnitlc<it ’ where e’er you labor To bring salvation to your neighbor. Miss L. Chouteau. Month radiant with toy and spiritual light, “’Tis good to be here,” for Tabor is bright With the glory of Jesus The scene let us vary— Earth is flooded with light by the glory of Mary Between these two sapphires “ Our Lady of Snows” With a pure gentle radiance modestly glows,	
»•!

168
THE SCHOLASTIC YE Ah
Linking these gems witii a silvery chain: Thus, Jesus and Mary united remain. When Uis jewels Ue shows— On Mary, a similar gem He bestows, And thus in this mouth two, sapphires shine: Jesus, transfigured, a Sapphire Divine The “Assumption of Mary" His mother, our Queen, Is Mary’s bright sapphire, sublime yet se.ene.
These sapphires, dear mother, we prese it to your view, His is Orient red. Our Lady's is blue Accept, with the widi. when oppressed with hard labor, Th it Je-us may give you a view of Mount Tabor ;
That “Our Lady's Assunif tiou," that sapphire blue, May shed its bright radiance, dear mother, on you.
Miss K Young.
September I offer, 'tis mild, sweetly bright, Its jewels are ambers, of pale golden light.
First tl.e “Birthday of Mary," then Her sweet “Holy Name,”
Dear precious gems, our devotion may claim;
Then her Son’s “Holy Cross” with joy is upraised, Thon Mary as “Mother of Sorrows" is praised; Then, “ Our Lady of Mercy," so mild in her ways, Bids the prisoner rejoice in her solacing rays. This clu-terof ambers, so peaeenilly bright, Sheds on this sweet month a rad ant light. Whenever these jewels, are struck by hard blows, They seud forth a tragance, surpassing tl.e rose; And when they’re subjected to exceeding great heat . Aromatics of Ind.a could never compete With the od ir exhaled by these ambers so sweet.
Then accept them, dear mother and may there arise From eacli sorrow you suffer, from each sweet sacrifice A precious aroma. When, by charity heated. Some labor of love you havo nobly completed, May your “ Foil nobis, Domine'' fill the soft air Of success with the breath of humility rare;
Sweet virtue! whose fragrance unrivalled, alone . Ascends like pure incen-e to Heaven’s high throne.
Thus may these five ambers, fragrantly bright, Deck our mother's rich crown in the realms of light.
Miss L. McManaman.	•
Bosabt Gems.
Has this month no rare gems to offer to thee! Oh yes, it pre-ents thee, a rich Ro-ary; Fifteen brilliant jewels, beauteous and bright, Mysteriously linked—appear to the sight Frei i ms opals, and garnets, of various hues, From which your dev tion may lovingly choose. From the Joyful Mysteries precious opals are made, Combining in each every exquisite shade;
Jesus’ Sorrowful Mysteries, precious garnets do form, Each tinged with that Blood, so sacred, so warm, Forced from His Heart by grief scourge, and thorn: Precious garnets!! which Jesus has lovingly worn.
The brilliant “fire opal” was made ardent and bright By the “Glorious Mysteries”; - Easter’s rich light;
Tue Ascension; the Holy Ghost, coming with fire, ■ W th love ami true la th every heart to inspire. Now. radiant with glory, our Lady appears, And with two gorge ms Mysteries newihlers yet cheers Her children Her grand “Coronation”
Is the reverse of the scene at the “ Annunciation." T.ien, the Son to His Mother d d lovingly come And make her Immaculate Heart His own home;
Foil). the M’ ther. in splendor, ascends to her Son, He crowns her with stars as His beautiful one. Thus the first and the last of the Mysteries entwine Jesus and Mary in union divine.
Muy these opals and garnets we offer to thee Fili your heart w-th delight t.may each mystery be A link in that chain of love never rben, Binding Jesus to earth, and His spouses to Heaven.
Miss C. Foote.
November, as a topaz with joy I present— Mild and pellucid - gem of peace and content; The child Mary, presented to God in her youth, A model of beauty, devotion and truth. Like the topaz pellucid, so mild is her light She seems like a moonbea illuming the night, Cheering the pilgrim as he treads his lone way Mid the gloom of the night, till the dawning of day; Thus, dear mother, when walking 'mid darkness and gloom, May the rays of this topaz your pathway illume.
Miss Kate Medill.
Rich month, to contain two jewels so fair, Two gems so exquisite, so brilliant, so rare; First, a radiant diamond, gem of the first water, God's masterpiece. His Immaculate Daughter”; This jewel is soon blended into another Fore piecious,—for Jesus is adored by His Mother. The dear Babe of Bethlehem, a jewel divinein the arms of His Mother doth le-piendently shine These gems so mysteriously, fondly entwined, Since creation's first dawn have been ever combined : The Mother, eflecting the light of her Son ;
Jesus, making His glory and honor her own ;—	'
Thus together these jewels have'constantly shone— Crown jewels,—belonging to Heaven’s high throne; They are gems of such splendor, such infinite worth Filling heaven with glory, and dluming the earth. These brilliant gems w;e pre-ent to your view. May th-’y every year your fervor renew, Till time with its changes forever has flown And you rest-bathed in their light—at the foot of God’s throne.
Our mystic circle now completed, Each month with lerver having greeted Our mother with its choicest gem, You see we close at Bethlehem.
Accept our offerings. Mother dear, And wish .that through this present year Dear Bethlehem with its brilliant light May make this year - glad, glorious, bright I
“Wild Flowers”—sung by....Miss C. Daverport Address fmm the Junior /	,T. T
. D partment. J ... ? .-Miss L. Neil “Rnck Me to Sleep”..............Miss L. Leoni
Address from the Minim ) ,,.	. ’	.
Department. ( -J1SS Anna GATntJ “Ye Pretty Birds”..............Miss J. Hynds
The programme being concluded, our Rev. Chaplain, who hud honored us with hi* presence, m ule so ne very kind remarks, and in the name of Mother Provincial thanked the young ladies for the :df crion di played Towards their mother. The dignitaries having retired, the pupils et joyed a social dative till nine o'clock ; then ail retired.