Votre Dame Scholastic.
Dlsce quasi semper victums; vivo quasi eras morrturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 29,1880.
Number 38.
May.
LONGFELLOW’S TRIBUTE TO THE BLESSED VIRGIN.
This is indeed the blessed Mary’s month, Virgin and Mother of our dear Redeemer!
All hearts are touched and softend at her name; Alike the bandit with the bloody hand,
The priest, the prince, the scholar, and the peasant, The man of deeds, the visionary dreamer, Pay homage to her as one ever present!
And even as children who have much offended A too indulgent father, in great shame, Penitent, and yet not daring unattended
To go into his presence, at the gate
Speak with their sister, and confiding wait
Till she goes in before and intercedes;
So men, repenting of their evil deeds, And yet not venturing rashly to draw near With their requests, an angry father’s ear, Offer to her their prayers and their confessions, And she for them in heaven makes intercessions.
And if our Faith had given us nothing more • Than this example of all womanhood—
So mild, so merciful, so strong, so good, Bo patient, peaceful, loyal, loving, pure, ' This were enough to prove it higher and truer, Than all the creeds the world had known before.
Food and Health.
CULINARY PREPARATION OF FOOD, AND THE INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF BAD DIET.
in.
Some one has defined man as a “ cooking animal ” and no doubt this definition would be valid, if only the comprehension of an idea was to be regarded as sufficient for a right definition. But may we not call in question this prerogative of man? Let us see what is meant by the term. “ cooking.” “ Cooking ” says Prof. Youmans “ has a twofold object—first, to soften the food, and thus facilitate its solution in the gastric juices; and second, to develop its flavor, and thus render it more agreeable to the palate.” Now it is well known that certain carnivorous animals will not touch fresh meat, but leave it to soften and putrify. The dog, for example, will bury the tough and tendinous parts in order that they may become soft; the hyena delights in decaying carcasses; while the vulture will prefer the half decomposing parts to the fresh portions of meat. Man consequently does not stand alone in creation as preparing his food to make it softer and more palatable. But it is not my intention, however, to dispute here this pre
rogative of man; my object being to show the best and most satisfactory ways that should be used for the preparation of food, in order to attain the twofold purpose above named. When cooking is properly performed both these objects are attained, and yet by the same means both may be entirely defeated. In the preparation of meat, for example, the flavor and juice should be retained, and the texture ought to be softened; but instead of this, we often get a hard, dry, and tasteless mass, as indigestible as it is unpalatable. Very often, too, the food is soft enough, but all the nutriment is extracted by over-cooking.
Two kinds of foods are prepared for the table by cooking, i. e., meat and vegetables. First, as regards meat, the three principal ways of cooking meat are, by boiling, roasting and stewing. By the first process from twenty-five to thirty-five per cent of its weight is lost. In order to preserve the juice and flavor of meat cooked in this way, the pieces should be large, and, when first put in, the water should be boilng, as it is thus the albumen on the outside will be coagulated at once, and prevent further escape from within. After boiling the meat in this way for four or five minutes the heat should be lowered to about 160 degrees and maintained until it is sufficiently cooked. When making broth the object is, of course, to extract as much juice as possible, and therefore in that case the pieces should be small and placed in cold water first, then they should be let stand for a little while, the water gradually heated to about 150 degrees; in this way the albumen is prevented from coagulating, and the juices are easily extracted. Beef-tea may be prepared without heat by placing thin slices of lean beef in water, say a pint, and adding four or five drops of hydrochloric acid; a gentle heat and a few more drops of acid will increase greatly the amount of extract.
Roasting is probably the best method of cooking meat It not only highly flavors it but increases its digestibility. The process should be commenced with an intense heat so as to form a thin superficial crust Roast-beef is without doubt the favorite dish of almost all, and, therefore, in its preparation great care should be taken so as to make it retain its old proverbial standard of “ the dish of the Englishman.” Stewing is analogous to roasting, only the meat is cut up and continually moistened with its own juice. Meat is best prepared in this way. Baking is a very unsatisfactory manner of cooking meats, as it invariably dries up the juice, while frying is the worst possible way in which meat can be prepared. Broiling is preferred to frying, as it comes nearer to roasting.
Vegetables are almost always boiled, and this is the best way of cooking them. Care, however, should be taken not to overdo them. If they are perfectly softened, the process should not be carried any farther, as in that case
592
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
their structure would be rapidly broken up, and the nourishing particles would be lost in the water.
I come now to the second part under consideration, namely, to the injurious effects food may have on the system, and the manner in which these effects may be avoided; hence it becomes necessary not only to point out the injury that may be caused by badly prepared food, but also to lay down some simple rules by which these bad effects may be avoided. The first rule that every one should observe is “the taking of no more food than is barely sufficient to satisfy the appetite.” Nor should the appetite be confounded with taste. The one is an natural desire for food in order to supply the wants of the system; the other is an artificial craving merely to gratify the palate. It has been observed that after a certain amount of food was converted into the chyme in the stomach, the gastric juice ceased to flow. The inference drawn by some physiologists is, that the glands in the coats of the stomach have a sort of instinctive intelligence, by which they secrete only sufficient gastric juice to convert into chyme so much food as is necessary to repair the loss of the tissues. There are many circumstances that have to be taken into consideration, with regard to the quantity of food to be taken; those thinly clad and exposed to cold require more than they who are well protected; those in active exercise, more than sedintary; while growing persons need more than adults. But no matter what may be the amount of food required, if more is taken than is demanded by the system, evil consequences are sure to follow. The immediate effects of over-eating are lethargy, heaviness, and a tendency to sleep. Regularly over-taxing the digestive organs impairs their functions, and tires out the organ, the result being dyspepsia or some such disease. If a great amount of food is not absorbed from the intestines it rapidly undergoes decomposition and commences to putrify, thus giving rise to colicky pains by the generation of poisonous gases. But, on the contrary, if the digestive powers are strong, and its products are absorbed, an excess of nutriment is thrown into the blood, and the circulation overloaded, thus preventing it to perform the function of nutrition properly. As an excess of food has evil effects on the body, so also has a deficiency of food. If the body does not receive sufficient food to repair the losses caused by the exertions of the organs, they will soon lose their vitality and strength, and reduce their structure. The mind suffers greatly in vigor, and the muscles in energy. By an insufficient diet the resistance of the body to diseases is diminished. Typhus and typhoid fevers are peculiar diseases of the poorly-fed. Lack of food in childhood is well known to stunt growth.
Having now treated of the evil effects of excess and insufficiency of food, the question naturally suggests itself: “What is the amount of food daily required? The quantity of solid food necessary for the proper nourishment of the body is best shown by estimating the quantity of solid matter found in the excretions of the body. According to this rule, Prof. Dalton has calculated that a man in full health, and taking free exercise in the open air, and living on an exclusive diet of bread, fresh meat, and butter, with coffee and water, will need: Meat. . . . 16oz. or 1.001b., avoir.; bread. . . . 19oz. or 1.191b., avoir.; butter or fat
. . . 3J£oz. or 0.221b., avoir.; water ... 52 fluid oz. or 3.381b. avoir. This would amount to rather less than two and a half pounds of solid food, and to something over three pints of liquid food. Almost all persons can procure
this amount of food when depending on their own resources to get it; but there are persons such as soldiers, convicts and sailors who have to completely rely on the good will of their superiors for the amount of food which they receive. The American soldier of all others is the best fed; while the English soldier is the worst off. But it remains to be added that however great the bulk of food placed before a man, it will avail nothing if misproportioned in its elements. Feed a man on a diet deficient in proteids, and the result will be muscular debility and pros-ration, while if it is taken in too great a quantity the result is a gouty state of the constitution. Deficiency in fats produces defective nutrition and leanness. Why there is such an universal dislike to fat meat is hard to tell, and yet there is nothing so dangerous to our life as a total or partial avoidance of it. It has been shown by the best medical men that, as a general rule, persons not eating any fat before the age of twenty will die of inanition before the age of forty. All doctors agree that a lack of fatty matter in the body predisposes to consumption; it is for this reason, to make up the deficit of fat in the system that easily digested oils are used to check the progress of consumption; of these oils cod-liver oil is the one most commonly used.
It was Dr. Hughes Bennett who first introduced cod-liver oil to the notice of the public; its beneficient influence on the system he deduced from the observation that butchers, cooks, oil-men, tanners, and as are constantly coming in contact with fatty matter, are less liable than others to tubercular diseases; and adds, the same doctor, that, to prevent consumption during youth, indulgence in indigestible articles of food should be avoided, especially pastry, unripe fruit, salted provisions, and acid drinks; while a habit of eating a certain amount of fat should be encouraged and made even imperative. Dr. Hooker says that of persons dying of consumption between the ages of fifteen and forty-five, nine-tenths, at least have never used fat meat; and that of sick persons between, the.ages of fifteen and twenty-two, more than one-fifth eat no fat meat. Fat meat is not only beneficial to the body but also serves to make life supportable in a comfortable manner. It produces that fulness of figure and form which adds so much to the beauty of the human body, as also' that activity of the muscles, which so greatly contrasts with the lethargic state of the fat-avoiding person. Although fat is commonly recommended, nevertheless, its too free use may be censured, as it will not only produce that sickly appearance of man, which is the result of obesity, but if more be taken than can conveniently be disposed of, the surplus has to be disposed off by the liver, which then becomes diseased by overaction, resulting in a bilious condition of the system; therefore it is the duty of every man, on the peril of his health, to see that he obtains not only a sufficient amount in bulk of nutriment but that this nutriment be proportional in the elements that compose it.
We have already spoken of the effects of unwholesome food, and therefore will only say here that a man using it, or making others use it, is as guilty of man-slaughter as the cut-throat; and one day, when such a man stands before the judgment-seat of his Creator, he will be astonished to hear that he has to render an account of the loss of so many young lives. How many sufferings, how many evil deeds are the result of bad diet! In order for the jeweler to make a precious neck-lace he must have gold and diamonds—surely a brick would not and could not furnish the required material. It is just so with food in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	593
relation to the action of man. Good and wholesome food will produce noble deeds; unwholesome food, deeds too dark to mention. Statistics show only too well, of what class of people our convicts’ cells and prisons are filled. And if, perhaps, an objection may be raised against this statement by saying that many criminals are also found among the better fed and belter clad class of mankind, I say that this is true. But let their respective crimes be investigated, and they will be found to be quite different, both in the nature of the deeds and the manner of committing them. Let those, then, who have the regulation of diet for armies, prisons, hotels, boarding-houses, etc., learn from this to avoid the fearful responsibility of crimes commited by their patrons as the result of bad diet, and furnish food that, although it may not be the best in the world, is, nevertheless, wholesome and good.
Space does not permit me to treat of the different kinds of unwholesome foods, and therefore I will give here only a few simple rules as a guide in eating and drinking: First, food should be taken at regular periods; secondly, food should not be taken too frequently, otherwise no time is given for digestion and proper assimilation; thirdly, food should be well masticated, as this will ensure thorough digestion. The practice of “ bolting ” food deranges the digestive process, and is highly injurious; fourthly, food should be masticated and swallowed without drink. The salivary glands of the mouth are there to moisten the food, and begin the digestion of the starchy elements of the food; moreover its presence is required in the stomach as a proper stimulant to the gastric glands; fifthly, food or drinks should never be taken when very hot, this is a fruitful cause of spongy gums, and decayed teeth, sore mouth, and indigestion; sixthly, food and drinks should not be taken very cold, as this would abstract too much heat from the coats of the stomach, thus arresting digestion and retaining the food too long therein; seventhly, food should not be taken after severe mental or bodily labor, for in such cases the increase of the flow of blood is either to the brain or to certain voluntary mucles, and it would take some time for the flow to abate and turn to the involuntary muscles of the organs concerned in digestion; eightly, persons should abstain from eating at least three hours before retiring to rest; ninthly, bathing and such exercises, have an important influence on the digestive apparatus. If free perspiration be checked by uncleanliness or chills, indigestion is sure to follow. Many of the ills that flesh is heir to might be cured by a bath; lastly, pjire air is necessary to give a keen appetite and vigorous digestion; and it is for this reason that people sleeping in small and ill-ventilated rooms have so little appetite in the morning. A manufacturer stated before a committee of the British Parliament that he had removed an arrangement for ventilating his mill, because he noticed that his men ate much more after his mill was ventilated than previous to admitting fresh air into the rooms, and that he could not afford to have them breathe pure air.
Let all then follow the above simple rules, and they will not have to complain of improper actions of their digestive systems, the investigation of which I leave for my next paper.	Sanuas.
. —Alphonso, King of Spain, useu to say that he only knew one happy pair in his dominions, the man was deaf and the woman,was Wins!.'
William Dunbar.
William Dunbar, the subject of this sketch, was bom in. Scotland in the latter part of the fifteenth century. The exact place of his birth is not agreed upon; and of his life, prior to his becoming a student at the University of St. Andrew, where, in 1479, he graduated, receiving the decree of Master of Arts, comparatively little is known.
During his college days, Dunbar was of a retired disposition, given much to contemplation. Having completed his college course, it became his duty to make choice of a profession, or of a future state of life; and in this he was guided by a seeming inclination to the practice of the Evangelical Counsels in seclusion and retirement. Accordingly, he made application, and was admitted to the house of the Franciscan Order, known as the Gray Friars. Here he remained some time, fulfilling in a most exemplary manner the offices assigned him. However, after some time, young Dunbar found that his calling was not what he before imagined, and so he returned to the world. This was, of course, in perfect accordance with the correct way of acting. Having received a classical education, and being a man of considerable attainments, he soon made the acquaintance of most of the leading men of his country. For a long time, however, he made no start in life, but finally, through the influence of some nobles, he was appointed to certain offices of trust, and it is believed, acted on embassies to Germany, Ireland, England and France, thus having an ample opportunity of becoming acquainted with the different phases of human character, of which he gave many delineations in his poetical productions.
In 1500, Dunbar was endowed by the king with an annual pension of ten pounds; but in after years this pension was greatly increased.
William Dunbar was one of those men of talented minds, and wonderfully gifted as to speech, and hence it was that he became a great favorite with his royal master. Many believe that it was Dunbar who was sent to Henry VH to stipulate a marriage with Margaret, his daughter, and King James. To judge from his writings, Dunbar was -a man of high ambition, desirous of wealth and independence, and spurned to be considered the servant of any master; moreover, it is believed that when he saw all his hopes of preferment were frustated by the death of the king, he pined away with the sting of his wounded ambition, and died about the year 1520.
Now as to the name and writings of William Dunbar, I must say that they remained in obscurity for many centuries ; and it is only of late years that his poems have become quite popular, on account, I may say, of the many moral and comic qualities which they possess. He wrote three kinds of poems: moral, comic, and allegorical, besides many small pieces, the sentiments of his miscalculated ambition. “The Thistle and the Rose” is one of his allegorical poems, written as a bridal song, to honor the nuptials of James and Margaret. This poem, as he himself relates, was written on the 9th of May, 1503. Of this production, an English author says:
“In nervous strains Dunbar’s bold mnsie flows, -And Time yet spares the Thistle and the Rose.”
The “Golden Terge” was very popular in his own day, and elicited many encomiums.
Dunbar was a great satirist and humorist “ The Dance ” is a poem combining these two qualities in a remarkable degree. It represents the Seven Deadly.Sins.passing by
694
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the gate of the lower regions; and, as they pass, they soliloquize, each on its own proper sin. It is one of the grandest productions of the kind in the language. Another poem represents the thrush and the nightingale having a debate on the merits of an earthly and a spiritual life. In this, the thrush ends every stanza with the praise of a “life in love’s service,” and the nightingale says that “all love is vain, but the love of God alone.” He has written many short pieces on the vanity of earthly things, the woes of mankind, and uncertainty of life. Thus he writes:
“The sliding joy, the gladness short, The feigned love, the false comfort, The sweir abade the slightful train, For to consider is ane pain.”
These spells of melancholy and despondency were not lasting, for at times he would write pieces which were the outpourings of a merry and joyful heart. His ambition prompted him to attain a high position, and when he saw but little hope for attaining his end, then it was that he told in measured verse the vanity of worldly things.
As a comic writer, Dunbar also holds a high rank; although his merits in this kind of poetry are not of so high a standard as his moral or allegorical compositions. One of his first comic pieces was “Two Married Women and the Widow,” in which three ladies discuss among themselves the relative merits of their husbands. There is another piece in which he represents a tailor and shoemaker having a promenade on the paths of the lower regions. His humor, though keen and good, is expressed in language, sometimes the most vulgar.
But, taken all in all, comparatively little is known of the character of the poet Dunbar. His complete works were published in 1834. Walter Scott has said of him that he was “a poet unrivalled by any that Scotland ever produced.” Be this as it may, his character and poetry, as far as we know of them, are well matched, and both I must consider as neither extremely bad nor surpassingly good.
G. F.
The Kind-Hearted.
There is no class of persons in the world more universally beloved and sought after than the kind-hearted. When we hear a person assert that such or such an individual is kind-hearted, our mind at once pictures out to us a person who is gentle, affable, magnanimous,—one possessed of such qualities that when combined make a truly generous soul. We know that the kind-hearted are ever ready to assist those who may need their aid, whether it be pecuniary or admonitory. When speaking of any one they invariably have a good word for him, otherwise they maintain complete silence. Many a heart, ready to burst with unrestrained passion, or inconsolable grief, has been softened and soothed by the cheering words of a kind-hearted friend.
Criminals, whose hearts had become steeled to all human sensibilities, either through the frequent commission of heinous crimes, total depravity, or both of these, have .becomb as gentle as lambs through the mollifying influ-enqeof the kind, the generous, and the true. Take the case of a little child; place him under the care of two persons, one of whom has a sour, surly disposition, who never allows the young one anything its childish fancy wishes for; or, if disposed to gratify the desire, will do it in such a manner as to deprive the child of the innocent gratifica
tion arising therefrom; the other, on the contrary, has a most agreeable disposition, and will do all in his power to make that child happy by granting its every legitimate desire with as much cheerfulness and alacrity as possible; to which of these two, do you think the affections of that child will adhere? In whom will that child have the greatest confidence? without doubt, in the latter. What is here said of the child holds good for the man. For, we are all children in some respects, and in this particular respect, we all find ourselves on an equality—we like, and can appreciate kindness. To the kind-hearted I say, oh! happy and god-like creatures, your worth cannot be estimated! you are a bright beacon-light to those tossed about and buffeted by the storms and boisterous winds of the world! Many a sailor on life’s broad and stormy sea, when about to succumb to its billowy waves, has been encouraged, cheered, and finally saved by a single ray of effulgence. To me a kind-hearted friend is a treasure; he is far more precious than all the treasures and riches of this world.
How consoling it is when weighed down by the cares, troubles, anxieties, and reverses of life to have a true and kind-bearted friend; one to whom may be made known all our difficulties and trials—the secrets of our inmost soul, and from whom sympathy and consolation may be received! Is it not reasonable and human like that we should cling to such a person with an earnestness and tenacity that well beggars description ? We often hear people complaining and wondering why it is that they are not more relied upon, and that they are not sought after and their company courted by their fellow-men. But to me the wonder is that such individuals have the audacity to make either such a complaint or inquiry; for were they but to look into themselves they would at once see the cause— they would see that they have no friends because they cannot be relied upon, because they are not men of truth and integrity.
But how sad it is to think that though capable of doing so much good to their fellow man, the kind-hearted are so few. In viewing the actions of man to-day, what do we behold? We see a banner carried triumphantly before millions of mortals upon which is inscribed the diabolical motto, “Love yourself and hate every one else.” O, truly deplorable condition of fallen man, when will you rise from the mire of hatred and strife in which you now wallow, take your fellow man by the hand, and with heart and hand joined carry everywhere that glorious banner now borne by so few, and upon which is inscribed not hatred, but “Love and Peace”? When man dhall have learned to regard his fellow man with kind feelings—when all mankind has become kind-hearted—then, and not till then, will peace and joy, such as the world cannot afford, reign supreme. When we have arrived at the winter of life, and feel the cold clammy hand of death upon us; when we look back to our boyhood hours, and find ourselves once more amid the delightful scenes of youth, then arise the memories of those we have known; we experience the most pleasant feelings in recalling the names of those who have been kind to us, and we dwell with commingled love, joy, and sorrow upon them. We cannot forget then; for,
“Though absent, not forgotten, The mighty tear drop falls, The fervent prayer to heaven
For preservation calls, A vision o’er us stealing
■
TfiE KOt&t: DAME SCHOLASTIC’.
Brings all the past to view,
We love the tender-hearted, The good, the kind and true.”
M.
-	Art, Musio and Literature.
—A posthumous novel by Sheridan Le Fanu, and a new novel entitled “ Miss Bouberie,” from the pen of Mrs. Molesworth, are in press in London.
—Cardinal Newman has recently given several of the letters of his old friend, the author of “The Christian Year,” to the library of Keble College, Oxford.
—M. Odysse has just put out a novel called “Les Amours de la Duchesse,” which is of a highy sensational character. The scene is laid in England.
—M. Ernest Daudet, brother of Alphonse, has recently publishod a volume of “ Souvenirs de la Presidence du Marechal MacMahon,” covering the period 1874-79.
—Mme. Clara Schumann, is preparing a biography of her late husband, enriched by his literary remains in shape of letters, criticisms, essays, etc., never before published.
—A. woman artist in Boston is making $100 a week by decorating parasols. She paints bouquets, wreaths of roses, dainty field flowers, and grapes for a New York firm.
—At a late sale in Paris a book by a modern binder, Trautz-Bauzonnet, a master of the art of inlaying, sold for $3,200, of which at least $2,200 was paid in respect of the binding.
—Madame Jenny Lind is reported to have said to Mrs. E. A Osgood, after hearing her sing in London: “ Your voice stirred my soul; there is no other voice like yours to-day for sympathy.
—Dr. Alfred Woltmann, who died recently at Mentone, had so nearly completed his great History of Painting ” that its publication is not likely to be seriously delayed. The first volume is already issued in Germany, and Prof. Sidney Colvin’s English translation will be brought out here during the fall.
—In London a few weeks ago Blake’s “ Book of Thel,” with eight engraved pages, 1787, was sold at auction for $42,25. Cunningham’s life of Blake ” in MS. fetched $330, and Blake’s “Book of Job,” $100, Baskerville’s edition of Virgil, proofs before letters (1766), brought $127,50. Nash’s “ Mansions of England,” the four volumes sold for $300.
—The great annual art event of the world, the opening of the Paris Salon, took place on the 1st inst. Bougner-eau is at the head of the jury. Bastien-Lepage, Bougner-eau Cabanel, Laurens, Lefebre, and others are represented by their best works. Miss Gardener has two pictures in the exhibition. Neither De Nittis, De Neuville, nor De. taille are represented.
—The revival of interest in the first Napoleon has led W. J. Widdleton to bring out new editions of O’Meara’s “Napoleon in Exile” and Las Cases’ “Memoirs of the Life, Exile, and Conversations of the Emperor Napoleon,” the former work being in two volumes and the latter in four. Both books had a great sale years ago, and have for some time been out of print.
—Mr. M. F. H. De Haas is working on a good-sized upright “ Moonlight in the Channel.” His most notable work this year is the “ Steamer Lizzie Ashore off Bridgehampton.” He will go to Europe in May, and return in the autumn. His large “ Rapids Above the Fall” came out of the Hahnemann Fair with a hole in the corner, several dents and scratches, but can easily be repaired. It is worth $2,500.
—It would be well for all interested in the history of their country, and in the promotion , of Catholic scholarship, to subscribe at once for John Gilmary Shea’s new book, entitled the “Translation of Father Hennepin’s ‘ Description de la Louisiane.’” This is certainly a work of merit, and should not only be found in the library of every Catholic institution in the land, but also in that of
every man who takes an interest in the history of his conn, try. The first edition is limited to 250 copies, and will be sent to subscribers for $4. Address, John Gilmary Shea, LL.D., Elizabeth, N. J.
—Mr. George Gilbert Scott, one of the most recent of “Rome’s Recruits,” has in the press an “ Essay on the History of English Church architecture, prior to the separation of England from the Roman obedience.” Annther book, as interesting to the historical student as Mr. Scott’s is to the architect and the antiquarian, will be the memoir of Nau, the secretary of Mary Queen of Scotts, which the Rev. Father Stephenson is preparing for publication. It contains in substance the ill-fated Queens’ account of her life, and particularly of those parts of it which have been the subject of so much controversy.
—New York is to have an addition to its public statues in the figure of Lief, the Norseman, who is supposed to have anticipated Columbus iu his discovery of America. In fact, the old Viking is credited by some enthusiasts here with having not only visited New England, but with sailing up Boston harbor. As no one knows how the alleged Norse discoverer looked his statue will have the advantage of escaping the usual criticism of its being a bad likeness. As the figure is to be executed by Mr. J. Q. A Ward, of New York, the ideal significance of the character will no doubt be well preserved. The subscription list for the statue, for which the city has given a site in Post-Office Square, is appropriately headed by Ole Bull."
—The mirror used by Japanese ladies is usually circular from 3 to 12 inches in diameter, made of bronze, and with a bronze handle covered with bamboo. The reflecting face is generally more or less convex, polished with a mercury amalgam, and the back is beautifully ornamented with a gracefully executed raised design. Some for the rustic population have also polished letters, The explanation of the fact that the mirror is almost the entire furniture of a Japanese lady’s room is found partly in the elaborate head-dresses worn by them, and the painting of their faces, and partly from the belief that, as the sword was “the soul of the Samouri,” so is the mirror “ the soul of woman.” It therefore constitutes the most valuable of all her possessions, and two mirrors form part of the trousseau of every bride. The characteristic quality of the mirror, must, it is believed, be in accordance with the constitution of the possessor, and “second sight ” is resorted to in the selection of a mirror.
Scientific Notes.
—Mr. Forbes claims in Nature to have already given his reason for believing that he has located a planet more distant from the sun than Neptune.
—The house of Louis Muller, of Leipsic, Germany, has put on the market colored inks, which may be used for writing labels on glass, iron, marble, mother-of-pearl and metal. The writing is done with a goose quill, and when dry adheres so firmly that it cannot be removed by any liquid. Four different colors are made, black, white, red and blue.
—Some trials were made lately on the Seine, at Paris, to determine the best way of breaking up river ice with dynamite. Bernard and Lay, assisted by two specialists, Elegy and Steits, of the Nobel Dynamite Company, directed the operations and recorded the results. The best effect was obtained by placing three cartridges of 406 grammes of dynamite beneath the ice, each connected with an electric machine on the bank of the river. When the cartridges were exploded, it was found that the ice was shattered a distance of about eighty metres, and through a width of from five to six metres. The pieces of the fractured ice were, moreover, found to be very small and easily carried down stream past obstructions, such as bridge piers.
—Artesian wells are becoming very numerous throughout California, fresh ones being dug daily as well for irrigating purposes in the farming lands as for general water supplies in San Francisco and other cities. They cost from $250 upward, and some furnish 250,000 gallons of the
596
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
purest water daily. In the San Joaquin Valley they are very numerous, eleven being in full flow within a tract three miles by a mile and a half in extent, and yet their ... proximity to each other and the digging of new wells does cattle breeding, which is in considerable favor with in-not diminish their flow at all, a thing that is not the case vestors. European or American horse dealers might have everywhere. The novel experiment has been tried of for- made their fortunes at the recent fair in Sannohe, if they ming an artificial lake with this water and breeding fish in only had known of it, for on this one occasion, 3,014 ponies
it, and it has been found that the fish thrive as well in this water drawn from subterranean sources as any other.
—Of all the large quarto works issued by the Wheeler Survey, none surpass in magnificence this truly great .work, it comprises nearly 1.100 quarto pages, illustrated by forty-five chromo-lithographic plates and three figures. These plates surpass in beauty anything of the kind ever issued in this country. So accurate is the coloring of specimens that every shade of color, every hue, and even the gauze of the wings of moths are perfectly delineated. It not noly does credit to the survey, but does more than credit to the lithographer and the Government PrintingOffice. It is a particularly strong volume in the list of contributors and array of topics treated. Dr. H. C. Yarrow, Assistant-Surgeon U. S. A., and Zoologist of the expidition, contributes a chapter upon geographical distribution and variation with regard to the work.
—The Egyptians, it is said, were the first who fixed the length of tne year. The Roman year was introduced by Romulus, 738 B. C., and it was corrected by Numa, 713 B. U., and again by Julius Caesar, 45 B. C., who fixed the solar year as being 365 days and six hours. This was denominated the Julian style, and prevailed generally throughout the Christian world till the time ot Pope Gregory XIII. The Calendar of Julius Caesar was defective in this particular, that the solar year consisted of 365 days, 5 hours, and 40 minutes, and not of 365 days, and 6 hours. This difference at the time of Gregory XIII had amounted to ten entire days. To obviate this error, Gregory ordained in 1582 that that year should consist of 355 days only: and in 1751 it was ordered to be so used in England; and the next year eleven days were left out, the 3d of September, 1752, being reckoned as the 14th, so as to make it agree with the Gregorian Calendar.
—At the meeting of the Royal Society lately held in London, Dr. C. W. Siemens, F. R. S., gave a detailed description of some experiments upon the influence of the electric light upon plants, which have been conducted during the last two months at his house in Sherwood, and exhibited specimens. The method pursued was to plant quick-growing seeds and plants, such as mustard; carrots, swedes, beans, cucumbers, and melons, in pots, and these pots were divided into four groups, one of which was kept entirely in the dark, one was exposed to the influence of the electric light only, one to the influence of daylight only, and one to daylight and electric light in succession. The electric light was applied for six hours each evening —from 5 to 11—and the plants were then left in darkness during the remainder of the night The general result was that the plants kept entirely in the dark soon died; those exposed to electric light only or to daylight only throve about equally; and those exposed to both day and electric light tnrove far better than either, the specimens of mustard and of carrots exhibited to the society, showing this difference in a very remarkable way.
—A new cotton factory has been established at Hinieji Japan, the building of which and the putting in of the machinery were entirely undertaken by Japanese workmen, without any foreign help whatever. A cloth factory has also been set up near Tokio, the manager being a Japanese gentleman named Inou-ue, who has undergone a thorough technical training in Saxony. Among the improvements of the day, an ingenious artisan at Hi-roshina has found out how to utilize dog’s hair for making coverlets and such like articles, and a considerable trade is being already carried on, both in the raw material and the manufactured goods. The silkworm trade is taking a bold step on its own account. An association, consisting of twenty-one silk growing villages in the province of Joshiu, are dissatisfied with the present arrangement of selling their “cards” to Italian “graine” agents, and have determined to start a branch establishment in Italy, and thus do their own exporting and commercial transactions,
direct without any middleman or foreign agency. Agricultural matters are exciting a good deal of attention, and a company has lately been started at Shizeku for horse and

only had known of it, for on this one occasion, 3,014 ponies
changed hands at the average price of about $1,04 per pony.—The Sun.
Exchanges,
—The College Rambler, from Illinois’ College, comes to us in a neat cover and very poor English—if it can be called English.
—The spicy little Harvard Echo is again on our table. We missed its bright face for some time; bat will not say where the fault lay, perhaps with ourselves. The Echo continues to be both newsy and interesting. It is a most welcome visitor.
—Donohoe's Journal, published by H. F. Donohoe, 16 Ayers Court, Chicago, entered upon its fourth year with the May issue. This is the first number of the Journal that we have seen, and we like it very much. Its matter is well qualified to please and instruct young people, and the low price of subscription, 75 cents a year, brings it within easy reach of the pennies of the young folks.
—The La Salle Journal is the title of a new visitor to our scriptorium. It is a neatly printed and ably edited literary venture on the part of Francis T. Furey, A. M., and is intended to meet the tastes and character of young men similar to those who constitute the La Salle Literary Union, in Philadel phia. The La Salle Journal is published monthly from the N. W. Cor. Twelfth and Chestnut Streets, at §1 a year. We wish it success.
—“ Tom,” one of the correspondents of The College Mercury, in a communication published in the May number of that paper gives us to understand that there is a “ Slumbering Volcano” at Racine College (a personified Volcano it would seem, and a veritable—or, according to “Tom’s” statement, an unveritable belcher of burning lava) chief among whose faults is “a reckless disregard for truth." (This remark will throw some light on things to which we will allude further on.) The “gentle reader” may be at a loss to determine the relation between a Slumbering Volcano and truth, but as we cannot enlighten him on this point we must refer him to the editor of the Mercury, who, with Minerva’s aid, may be able to give him such additional information as he desires. There is a discrepancy, however, in the Mercury correspondent’s statements; he clearly states in one place that the Volcano is slumbering, while from the tenor of his remarks throughout one can see that said Volcano is very active, in full blast. The agile Seniors and Sophs no doubt have a lively time dodging the boiling lava at Racine, while the untutored Freshmen content themselves with laughing at their exploits from a bomb-proof shed. Of course we know nothing personally of the Racine men or their movements; we glean all our information of them from the Mercury, and judging from the statements in that paper some of the men are, to use a gossiping phrases, “no better than they ought to be.” In fact, “Pax-not Junior” and “Tom” givens clearly to understand that there are some very wicked boys at Racine, but as there are many discrepancies m the communications—at least in “ Tom’s” —we may reasonably make some allowance for exaggeration here also, and suppose that at Racine College, as elsewhere, there is a reasonable sprinkling of the good and indifferent, as well as of the bad. We are not an advocate oi the doctrine of total depravity, and we hope that the very wicked wretches alluded to in the Mercury are the exception, and not the rule; “Tom” tells us of a “truly diabolical ” fellow at the college who “ with fiendish exultation. . . . sees his fellow-students dragged .do wn to the level of common slanderers,” and is even base enough to print their virtues in nonpareil and their vices in long primer. What a monster of iniquity he must be, to be sure I For we must remember that all this refers to young
4
L
TEE NOTEE DAME SCfiOLAStlC.	dW
gentlemen at college, or “college men,” as the Mercury technically expresses it, and the monster who would thus drag them down from the pinnacle of honor must be a monster in deed and in truth. He deserves to be astra-cised. Again, “Pax-not Junior" accuses one “Pappax” (what learnedly odd names they have at Racine!) with using the words “young gentlemen (excuse the epithet)” in a communication to the Mercury, and in another place “advises Seniors and Sophs, to make less noise.” This “ Pappax ” must be a Freshman, and while he enjoys the secure shelter of the bomb-proof shed he forgets that the soles of the said Seniors and Sophs, are scorched with the burning lava from the Slumbering Volcano. He should be compelled to try the experiment for himself, and learn by experience. Some people, however, cannot be anything if not unreasonable, and Racine seems to have her share of such people. But that affair of the “ truly diabolical ” slanderer and the printing of the virtues in nonpareil and the vices in long primer is the most outrageous of all, if it be true. For the sake of humanity we hope it is not true, and that the writer but exaggerates, or draws upon his imagination. Some of the writers at Racine are very imaginative—so imaginative, in fact, that with them an ideal world takes the place of or shuts out the real world on which we live, and move, and have our being, and with which we revolve like flies on a spinning apple. They have ridden the hobbies of Kant and Fichte so far that they can’t be brought to an understanding of material things; they revel in a fictitious world. Poor fellows, theirs is a sad fate; but their misfortune gives hope lor others. Going no farther than our own case, as stated by one of these men, who writes the exchange notes for the Mercury, we see much to hope for m the case of the Ra-cmians who are represented as so very wicked—nay, even for the “truly diabolical’’ slanderer at Racine College— and also for our theories in opposition to the doctrine of total depravity—yes, even if the aforesaid “ truly diabolical,” who would print the virtues of Racine students in nonpareil and their vices in long primer, be the exchange editor of the Mercury himself. Our case as represented by him is as follows: “A jolly, fat individual stood aloof from the others, wearing a cassock, and with an air entirely different from the rest. It was not till we heard his rich, Irish brogue as he talked theology with the lively Amherst Student that we were sure of the identity of our friend the Notre Dame Scholastc.”
Now, the fellow that penned that for the Mercury is capable of saying or doing almost anything, is ne nut ? It we know ourselves—and we think we do—we never spoke a word on theology or anything else to the Amherst Student, or, properly speaking, to the editor of the Amherst Student. We are not the Notre Dame Scholastic, it is true—there is no such personage; but as we are the exchange editor of the Scholastic, and as we lately had a bit oi a discussion with the corresponding functionary on the Amherst Student, we presume the muddled or imaginative individual who writes up the exchanges for the Mercury means us. Never having spoken on theological or other subjects to the editor of the Student, we fail to see how the editor of the Racine paper could hear our brogue! Perhaps he meant that the brogue was on our pen; but a pen is a queer place to wear a brogue; and as we have a fair idea of the fitness of things, we feel morally certain that if we had to wear a brogue at all we would wear it on our pedal extremities. The exchange editor of the Mercury avers that he is “sure of the identity” of his friend of the Scholastic, but this certainty on his part only shows how far gone the poor fellow is; we can assure him that he makes a grievous mistake. We don’t stand “aloof from the others,” for we are fond of company, when it is good, and nobody enjoys a joke belter than we do—so we are not the man he supposed he saw; furthermore, we have not the honor of wearing the clerical cassock, and we are not “fat,” but as lean and lank as a fencerail,—so lean, in fact, that, if we put on a swallow-tail coat, a stovepipe hat and striped breeches, we might be sent abroad as a pretty fair specimen of the ideal Yankee. So, the exchange editor of The College Mercury has evidently been dreaming dreams and seeing visions. We hope he is not addicted to heavy suppers; heavy suppers induce dreams and nightmare. After all, a great deal of he wickedness ascribed by the Mercury to the Racine
“college men” may be of a like nature, the fruit of a dream, and they may not be half so bad as the Mercury paints them.
College Gossip.
—The University of Minnesota has given up its military department—Ex. Good news for West Point	.
—Ann Arbor University is to have a full set of meteorological instruments. They will cost about $350.—College Journal.
—Harvard’s summer school in geology will begin its work al Cambridge, July 7th, and will continue four weeks.—Echo.
—Junior being asked if his knowledge of a chair was a priori or a posteriori, answered a posteriori. He could not see why me class laughed.—Ex.
—A Freshman recently inquired of our reliable travelling book agent if he had any miscellaneous works. “No,” replied our antiquarian, “I have Jane Porter’s works and some other females’, but none of Mias—Lan-esses.’ ”—Amherst Student.
—A compilation of the various canvasses of the colleges of the country who have pulled a vote on the presidential question has been published by the Harvard Echo. Tnirty-six colleges have been heard from, and the totals tor the leading candidates are: Blaine, 2,227; Grant, 1,408; Sherman, 1,074; Bayard, 1,117; Edmunds, 301; Tilden, 195.
Lieut. Flipper, the colored West Point cadet, who graduated with ms class some years ago, asserts that being left alone by his iellow-students was a positive advantage to him in his studies, since he sought companionship in his books. He states that since he left West Point he has been recognized in a social and friendly way by his class* mates.
—A college paper exists for two objects: first, to give information about college affairs; and second, to afford the student an opportunity of advancing his own ideas. Perhaps this secund is more important than the first. Much has been truly said about the advantage it is to one to see his own compositions in print, and'much more might be said about the wholesome effect this has upon those students who would not otherwise care to write, still less to publish their writings.—The Berkeleyan.
—The Cornell Era wants a course in journalism established at that college. There are, we believe, no schools of journalism in the United States.—University Press. With all respect to the opinion of our excellent contemporary, we inform him that there are a very large number of schools of journalism in the United States. Every college, from which a college paper is issued, possesses a scnool oi journalism more or less practical, and there are one or more papers issued by more than 200 colleges.
—It is feared by the friends of St. John’s College, Maryland, that the failure of the Legislature to appropriate $12,000, usually given to that institution, will be fatal. Tua college has eight professors in the faculty. Of the $8,000, whicn it is now to receive, $5,000, are lor board and tuition of free scholars, of whom there are one from each of the senatorial districts of the State. Besides these, free-tuition scholarships are allowable by law of four from each of the twenty-six senatorial districts, but none of them are filled. It is considered that the scholarships have done much to injure the school.
—Jasper James Cargill, a student in the California College, at Mendocino, made a heavy wager that he could walk and run 600 miles in six days. He believed that the plan usually adopted by pedestrians, that of doing their utmost during the first twenty-four hours, was a mistake, because it brought about exhaustion at the beginning of the journey. His time-table was for an even hundred miles every day. He proved a wonderiul walker, and apparently demonstrated the soundness of his theory. On each oi the first four days he covered exactly 100 miles, in an average of twenty hours. On the fifth day, however, he fell ill, and was compelled to stop. . H&intends to repeat the experiment—Sun	. . - • *
598	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, May 29, 1880
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thibtebnth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
' Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81-50 Per Annum, Postpaid,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic, regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.	■
—It is we think hardly necessary to remind those who have not studied very seriously during the past year to strive and do what they can during the time that yet remains to them. Much can certainly be done in the shape of reviewing, etc., in a few weeks, and consequently it is but just and right that what can be done ought to be done; so that each and every student may go home well satisfied with what he has acquired during his term at College, and thus come up to the expectations of his parents or guardians. It is true that at this time of the year study is anything but a pleasing task; but pleasure is so seldom associated with labor that we may here reject it as something by which we should not be guided if we wish to go forth from our Alma Mater crowned with the laurels of merit
The following rules given by Morhorf from Fichte’s Arcana Studiorum Mefhodus may not prove unuseful to some of our readers: First, know all subjects but profess one; secondly, have always a definite object in view; thirdly, love labor but despise pleasure; fourthly, learning is gained by reading, hearing, teaching and writing. Again, reading by one's self should be condemned, but being read to, he considers as the key to information. Thus he says: “Let them read by the eyes of others; let them improve by the studies of others, and let them have Anagnostse to point out authors to them, give them either by word of mouth or writing Jhe cream of the best authors.” This author again says: “Let each and all read multum not multa; study original books if you "wish to have original ideas.” On teaching, he lays particular stress, saying: “ The moment you have made some
progress in study, strive, if possible, to be teaching all the time. Teach what you know, if you don’t know everything. Take special care, either by bribing or begging, to have one person to whom you can repeat what you please. The expense will be well laid out, even if you have to spend a little in paying a person to attend you for an hour for this purpose.” He reckons this among his Arcana especially as a help to memory: “I have read many things; but a month’s interval so destroyed all recollection of them that I hardly remember them on reading them again. But what I have taught others, I know as well as the very limbs of my body. They are as clear as daylight before my eyes. My knowledge of them is firm, certain, and fruitful. I could hardly believe that death itself could extinguish the remember-ance of them.”
—On last Thursday the Church of God duly celebrated the mystic solemnity of Corpus Christi,—a festival that must be ever dear to the Christian heart; for since Christ has so loved man as to give him His own body and blood for the food and nourishment of his soul, it is but befitting on his part to adore his Divine Lord and Saviour in the Sacrament of His love, and pour out from the depths of his soul all the honor, all the praise, and thanksgiving that a creature can bestow upon his Creator.
That nothing might be wanting to the splendor of the Feast of Corpus Christi, the Church has appointed that it should be solemnized in the fairest and most pleasant part of the year, the month of May or June. And this wise selection of a day, at the above time, on which to glorify the God of all creation, is emblematic of the harmony that exists between the order of nature and that of grace; for it is the one same God whom we adore in the Eucharist— and who on this account pours His graces upon us—that rules the passing year, and commands the flowers to bud and the trees to put forth their leaves. God is indeed wonderful in His works, and wonderful in the love that He bears for man, in spite of the latter’s utter ungratefulness. It was man who caused our Divine Lord so much pain: it was man—cruel man—that nailed His mangled and bleeding Form to the wood of the Cross; notwithstanding all this, the charity and love of Christ prevail, and in place of resenting the injury, He forgives him in His goodness, and declares that He loves man with an infinite love. Oh mystery of mysteries, how can we be any longer ungrateful with such an example before us!
The Sacrament of the Eucharist has been instituted by Christ in a most simple and yet most wonderful manner. On the night of the Paschal Supper, our Divine Saviour took bread into His adorable hands, and after having blessed and broke it, gave it to His Apostles, saying: “Take ye and eat: this is My body; do this in remembrance of Me.” And having taken the chalice, and given thanks, He presented it to them, saying: “Drink ye all of this, for this is My blood, the blood of the New Testament, which shall be shed for many unto the remission of sins. Do this in commemoration of Me.” Here, then, are the plain words of Christ; so plain that any unbiased mind must admit them in the sense attributed to them by the Catholic Church, for she alone is infallible, and has the direct power from God to interpret the Scriptures, that doing this she may fulfil her mission—guide souls to God.
The Feast of Corpus Christi has ever been held with becoming solemnity at-Notre Dame, and this year has formed
41
C1
A
-vl
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	59$
no exception. At eight o’clock, on this day, Solemn High Mass was celebrated, after which the procession was formed, and moved solemnly around the lake. Beautiful repositories were erected at the Novitiate, at Calvary, and at the grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes; various arches were constructed in the way, and, altogether, the effect was most imposing. The Band led the procession, and discoursed music appropriate to the occasion. Thousands of people were present from all parts of the country, and we are happy to be able to state that all showed that good order that is but rightly expected of a Christian on such an occasion.
In the evening, Solemn Vespers were sung, and the renewal of vows on the part of those who made their First Communion took place; so that, taken all in all, the celebration of the sublime festival of Corpus Christi at Notre Dame was all that could be desired; and we have no doubt that all who had the good fortune to be present thereat will remember it with pleasure, and in years to come will count it among one of the great events of their lives.
—The writer of the article entitled “The American College” in a recent number of the University Press claims that “ at present there are everywhere springing up denominational as well as sectarian institutions, flooding the country with graduates who could not enter the third class in a German gymnasium, but who in this country can in one year from graduation nail up their shingles as Doctor or Lawyer, or as any other professionalist.” If this be the case it would be a praiseworthy undertaking to show up some of the shallow pretenders, so that people might know them and guard against them. The writer continues: “ Thus it is that the noblest professions have come into disrepute. A few facts: England has three colleges, the United States 422. New England contains 22 of these, Pennsylvania twenty-nine. Ohio, we believe, has somewhat above thirty, etc., etc. The Boman Catholic colleges number sixty-seven, Methodists sixty-five, and so we might go on and show by figures how these smaller colleges are gradually increasing. Whereas, as the States take charge more and more of educational matters they ought to decrease, and how in their increase they have been and are sapping the very life blood from out the nation. How, you ask ? We answer that they do this by using their influence to deter students from attending superior educational institutions, and draw them by various means to their own far inferior colleges. There are at present twenty-seven State colleges in the Union. These should be supported. When Michigan has an Ann Arbor and Wisconsin a Madison College supplied with educators that no institution in these separate States can vie with, supplied with apparati and appliances for scientific purposes such as no denomi-.nation in the state finds itself alone able to present to its school. We say that, having all this in view, is it not a curious fact that there are persons who will send their children, deserving better education to mere academies.”
But are all these State colleges so very superior to the denominational institutions as the writer would lead us to suppose? That is a fair question, we believe, and apart from the fact that this is a free country, and that people are therefore at liberty to send their children where-ever they please, and cannot be coerced into a contrary course by a free State, we think that many of these pampered and expensive State colleges are not what they are
cracked up to be, or what they should be. Turning to another part of the {taper from which we clip the foregoing extracts, we are given to understand that the figures set down by the professors at one of these State colleges to indicate the standing of the student amounted to nil, and the president acknowledged that they “ are really no indication of a student’s work.” That this is not the case at some of the denominational colleges objected, we can personally affirm, and if the professors in a college cannot give an “ indication ” of their students’ standing in their classes, what, we ask, can they do—what are they paid/to do? From the local columns of the same paper we take the following extract which clearly shows that the writer of “ The American College ” article might very reasonably transfer a great deal of the odium to some of the State colleges:
The boys are all at work (?) again. The short vacation spent inlying to the ‘patients’ about hard study does not-seem to have had an injurious effect. Our affectionate parents when we shall have graduated, will be anxious that we take a year’s rest to recuperate, whereas, in truth, the four years spent in college with nineteen out of twenty of us are the easiest as well as the pleasantest of our working life. Very few in the Wisconsin or any other American University do a fair equivalent for the labor of the shop clerk or farm hand. It is not the study that makes some of our graduates pale and consumptive, but irregularity and a lethargy too great to permit the taking of proper exercise. We know of one gentleman who takes his recreation playing whist and poker in a room impregnated with an atmosphere of nigger-hair tobacco smoke, while all his studying is done after eleven p. m. Next Commencement the city newspapers which so kindly fondle the cunning graduates will praise his pretty pieces and lament that hard study has made such inroads on his constitution.”
Now, we can assure the writer of the article in the University Press that no such “ work ” would pass muster at Notre Dame, and at some other colleges that receive no support from the State, and that therefore his animadversions belong more properly at home, at his own State college, than at many of the small colleges that he pretends to hold in such contempt. Furthermore, the marks here are an “ indication ” of the student’s standing in his classes, and no mere claptrap. That there are many inferior colleges, institutions unworthy the name of colleges, is beyond a doubt, but this does not justify the writer’s sweeping charges. Show up the inferior institutions, and give honor where it is due. Consistency is said to be a jewel; hence, we suppose, the reason why so few possess it
Personal.
—A Hatt, ’76, promises to become one of the leading artists of the West.
—Edward G. Ohmer, ’73, is in the furniture and notion-ary business at Dayton, Ohio.
—Harry E. Canoil, Prep., ’72, is clerking in a clothing house at Fort Collins, Colorado.
—John Eisenhauer is assisting his father in the real estate business at Huntington, Ind.
—Henry Murphy (Commercial), ’78, is doing business for a lumber firm at Muskeegan, Mich.
—Rev. Father Marine, C. S. C., of New Orleans, visited Notre Dame last week. Father Marine is well, and his old friends here were, of course, delighted to see him.
—Irman Harthrath, ’79, is now pursuing his studies in Switzerland. He does not, however, forget Notre Dame,
600
'THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and must have the Scholastic forwarded to him every week.	'
—Rev. John Baptist Francoion, of the diocese of Santa Fe, N. M., and Secretary to his Grace the Archbishop Lamy, is visiting at Notre Dame. Father Francoion intends to remain sufficiently long to perfect himself in the English language.
—George H. Crosby, ’73, was recently married in Chicago to an estimable young lady, Miss Mary Walcott. Mr. Crosby will by the first of June take up his residence in Chicago and re-enter upon the position at the Cnicago, Burliugton & Quincy Rairoad Depot formerly held by him. We wish me newly-married couple success in life.
—Our old ftiend 8. S. Zahm, of Huntington, Ind., has been spending some days at Notre Dame. We are glad to be anle to state that Mr. Zahm is improving in health, and will likely, contrary to the opinions ot many, completely recover irom nis somewhat protracted illness. He has lately invented an important Improvement in Churning Apparatus, and we hope that it will prove remunerative to mm.
.	Local Items.
—Reviews are now in order.
—The well near the Scholastic Office is well patronized.
—After about two weeks, examinations will be in order.
—Competitions next week will be in the Preparatory Course.
—Visitors from South Bend to the College are pretty numerous.
—Quite a number of books has been lately added to the College libraries.
—A great number of old students are expected here for Commencement week.
—Four more weeks and the scholastic year of ’79-’8O will be a thing of the past.
—A number of Minims made their First Communion on the Feast of Corpus Christi.
—Tne Elocution classes, under the instructions of Prof. J., A. Lyons, are doing well.
—There is a student in the Junior Department who is said to resemble Peter Lumbard.
—The various representatives of the College Associations are now being chosen lor Society Day.
—The College extension looks fine; the plastering and carpenter-work are all that can be desired.
—	Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger will be here about the 4th prox., for the administration of Confirmation.
—	The Military Companies, under charge of Captain Cocke, are making rapid progress in field drill.
—	Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C., officiated on the great solemnity of Corpus Christi.
—	D. E. Maloney (Class ’74), Elgin, Ill., will deliver the Alumni Oration at the Commencement Exercises.
—Weather prophets are at present very scarce around Notre Dame. The business, of course, is rather precarious,
—At the Commencement Exercises, the poem of the Alumni will be read by Mr. W. T. Ball, (Class of ’77,) Chicago, Hl.
—The Minims contemplate a trip to the St. Joe Farm on next Wednesday. The little fellows are bound to have a good time of it.
—The Alumni are about to have a most pleasant reunion the coming June. All who possibly can.are expected to be present.
—The Thespians, under the instructions of.’Prof. J..A. Lyons, will give the dramatic Entertainment at the Commencement Exercises.	.
—Hon. A. Anderson, South Bend, Ind., delivered an interesting lecture before the law students, on last Tuesday evening, in Science Hall.
—The attention of the Rhetoric Class was recently oc
cupied with an interesting debate. Excellent arguments were advanced by both sides.
—The putting up of the fence around Bro. Robert’s inimitable flower-garden is progressing slowly. Tne execution is more than the conception.
—We would call the attention of all those in arrears to the Scholastic to settle their accounts immediately. We want what little is due to us in this respect.
—The play of “Hartwell at Hamford,” somewhat remodeled and localized, will be brought out by the Thespians on tne evening before Commencement.
—The pupils of the Manual Labor School are doing well both at their trades and at their studies. Now is the time for them to lay the foundation of a useful life.
—No report has been handed in of the interesting game of baseball played on last Wednesday week. The Secretary of the winning Club must certainly be nodding.
—It is hoped that , all who take part In the exercises of Commencement week will acquit themselves in a creditable manner. Let the addresses, orations, etc., be first-class.
—There is a number of manly students among the Juniors. We had occasion to notice this by some things connected with the late Entertainment of the St Cecilians.
—The number of visitors at the Commencement Exercises which take place on the 21st, 22d, and 23d prox., will be larger, perhaps, than ever seen before at Notre Dame.
—Last Saturday week Daniel Donahoe, of the Law Department, delivered an interesting and instructive lecture on “Constitutional Law” before the 1st Book-Keeping Class.
—The preparations made for the procession of Corpus Christi were extensive. The repositories were really beautiful, as also the many arches that decked the processional route.
—Little time remains between now and Commencement Day. We hope all will show an energy and good will in making everything connected with Commencement exercises a success.	-
—On Trinity Sunday, Solemn High Mass was celebrated at 10 o’clock in the Churcn of Our Lady ot the Sacred Heart, the celebrant being Rev. Father. Walso. Rev. Father Foley of New Brunswick, delivered the sermon.
—The eleventh regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association was held ou the evening of the 23d insL At ibis meeting G. E. Clarke was chosen to represent the organization on Society Day.
—At the regular meeting of the Tnespian Association, held May 23d, Messrs. Burger, Harriugton, Clarke, and Noquan were elected members. W. B. McGorrisk was chosen at this meeting to represent the Association on Society Day.	-
//—The rarest work yet procured for the Lemonnier Library is a complete set of Brownson's Quarterly Review in 24 vols. This work is invaluable for reference, aud was purchased from the estate of the late Very Rev. Father Kundig, of Milwaukee.
—The Officers of the Junior Military Company are as follows: Mr. T. Cocke, Captain; E. Otis, 1st Sergeant; E. Cleary, 2d Sergeant; A. Bodine, 1st Lieutenant; J. A. Gibbons, 2d Lieutenant; M. J. Burns, 3d Lieutenant. The Company consists of about forty members.
—The 31st regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Tuesday evening, May 25ih. At this meeting essays were read by J. A. Gibbons and T. Flynn. Public readers for this week are: M. J. Burns, C. McDermott, H. Rose, G. Foster, T. Flynn, J. P. O'Neill, and J. W. Guthrie.
—The 27th regular meeting of the St Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association was held Saturday evening. May 22d. The following members took part in the exercises: G. J. RbodhiSj J. Boose, E. Coyne, M. Vedder, J. Larkin, E. Rhorback, J. Kelly, N. Nelson, F. Becker, E. Litmer, A. Croarkin, and J. Seeger. '
—The* Commencement Exercises of the University will take place on the 21st, 22d, and 23d of June. The orator on this occasion will be ex-Chief Justice Dunne, of Arizona. Judge Dunne is a speaker of acknowledged ability,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
601,
and consequently a rare treat is in store for those who will be present to hear him.
—It would be well if the Secretaries of the different Societies and Clubs were a little more punctual in handing in reports. We do not know what a Secretary is for if he does not attend to his business. He should at least have sense enough not to take a duty upon .himself that he has not either the capacity or the intention of fulfilling.
—The St. Cecilians tender to Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C., a unanimous vote of thanks for the beautiful statue of St. Aloysius, purchased by him in Paris and presented to their Association. This statue is executed in the sense of true Christian art; and for chasteness of outline, and excellence in other details of ornamentation, is all that may be desired.
—The general examination will begin on Tuesday June 15th. The few intervening weeks should be spent in careful preparation by all those who are anxious to leave a a creditable class-record. Besides, it must be remembered that the June examinations decide the September promotions; so that those who do not care to spend two sessions in the same classes, should see to it, that their average be above 80.
—Some improvements are needed in various places around Notre Dame; and would it not be well to have these made by Commencement week? There seems to be but little use in spending day after day and week after week in doing what is of very little moment, and letting other things which really need attention pass unheeded. This is especially the case in a few instances, which we refrain from mentioning.
—It is expected that the boat race on the 22d, will be an unusually close one. Both crews are sparing themselves no trouble in preparing, and the winners—whoever they may be—must expect a hard struggle before carrying off their laurels. We haven’t yet heard whether the boats are to be greased or not, but it is to be presumed that after the thorough discussion which the matter got last fall, there will be no more trouble to be apprehended on this point.
—Harper & Brothers, Publishers, Franklin Square, New York, have lately sent to the College .Library, with their compliments, the sixth revised and enlarged edition of Liddwell and Scott’s large Greek-English Lexicon, and Andrew Freund’s Latin-English Dictionary, revised, enlarged, and in great part re-written by Lewis and Short. These two volumes are standard works in their kind, and for these the Messrs. Harpers have the sincere thanks of the Librarian.
—At the 23d regular meeting of the Columbian Literary -.and Dramatic Association the subject “Has France Pro; duced Greater Men than England?” was warmly debated, and considerable enthusiasm prevailed during the whole proceedings. Messrs. Zahm, Kurz and Donnelly spoke on the affirmative side of the question, while Messrs. Burns, Connelly and Larkin upheld the negative. Alter the display of considerable ability on both sides the decision was given in favor of the affirmative.	.
—Our horticulturist says that he feels morally and physically wronged by the fact of us saying that he has put the fruit-trees on the straight road to destruction, and insinuating that the starting of a young nursery was not so much to replenish as to increase the standard of production up to the volume of consumption. We are sorry to have so abused our respected tree-destroyer, notwithstanding that the spirit of little George actuates his every movement. Would that he would spare the tree, and spare us the sad sight of looking upon maimed nature.
—A meeting of the resident Alumni was held on Sunday morning in President Corby’s parlor to prepare the programme for Commencement week. The records of the Alumni Association having been destroyed in the recent fire, Messrs. Edwards, Devoto and McCue were appointed a committee to draw up a constitution which should be submitted for adoption at the regular meeting on June 22d. Invitations will be sent out to all the old graduates, to be present at this Annual Commencement, and it is expected that an unusually large number will find it con-yenient to attend. Another meeting of the standing com
mittee was held on last Wednesday at 1 o’clock, p. m., at which meeting the programme of the exercises, for Alumni day, prepared by a sub-committee appointed for that purpose, was adopted.
’—“Preludes,” by Maurice F. Egan. Philadelphia: Peter F. Cunningham & Son. The poems comprised in this small and unpretending volume of scarcely a hundred pages are mostly characterized by a chaste elegance of taste, and a certain grace of classical allusion which betoken the scholar. The form of the Sonnet which the author has chosen in which to embody most of his poetic thoughts is not adapted to much wild discursive roaming of fancy, but its severe and somewhat restricted rules of expression are not felt to be, in the mind of the reader, fetters to the easy flow of the verse, which, if it seldom ascends to the height of absolute grandeur, is often impressive, and always in unimpeachable good taste. Some of the poems have already appeared in the pages of Scribner's and Lippincott's Magazines, and it is understood that the young writer is connected with the journalistic profession in New York. The promise given in “Preludes” of latent power and artistic ability is such as to warrant the reader in taking the title chosen as but a prefatory tuning of the harpstrings for some broader flight into the world of song, where, if he fulfills the expectations which these preluding notes have inspired, he must needs take a higher and more conspicuous position. The book is published to aid in the rebuilding of the University of Notre Dame.—Queen's College Journal.
—Books placed on the shelves of the Lemonnier Li-^^ brary during the past week: Brownson's Quarterly Review, First Series, from 1844 to 1864 inclusive, 21 vols.; Brownson's Quarterly Review, Second Series, 1873 to 1875, 3 vols.; Harper's Monthly Magazine, 15 vols.; Miscellanies—Manning, Life ox Solomon Foote, Tribute to the Memory of Jane Porter Lincoln, Life of Hon. Jacob Collamer, Arrington Memorial,'Lives of the Catholic Heroes and Heroines of America—John O’Kane Murray; Life of Rev. . Charles Nerinckx, with a Chapter on the Early Catholic Missions of Ky.,—Rev. Camillus P. Maas; Shirby,— Currer Bell; Life of Prince Gallitzin—Hyden; BMio-graphia Catholica Americana, from 1784 to 1820 inclusive, Joseph M. Feroth; Works of Samuel Johnston, LL.D., 2 vols.; Ainsworth’s Latin Dictionary. Thanks are returned to Bro. Emannues for Half Hours With the Best Authors—Knight; 3 vols.; to Bro. Edward, for The Pearl Among the Virtues; to Elliot Ryder, oi New York, for a complete set of the New York Catholic; to Jacob Wile, Esq., of Laporte, Ind., for vols. II, HI, IV, V, VI, and VII of the Library of Universal Knowledge; to Miss M. Abbe for Butler’s Sketches of Universal History; The Book of Common Prayer; and, Pulte’s Homoephatic Domestic Physician.
—A number of books have been, within the past week, 1^ presented to the College Library by members of the Faculty. They number some 150. Among them are the following works: Brande’s Encyclopaedia of Science, Literature and Arts; Barnard’s School Architecture; Sorignet’a Sacred Cosmogony; Manning’s Sermons on Ecclesiastical Subjects; Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science; Kenrick’s Theologia Dog-matica, 3 vols.; Devoti Institutiones Canonica, 2 vols.; Haze’s Ceremonials Romanum; Weniger’s Iniallibility of the Popes; Virgil’s Eclogues and Georgies—Anthon; Anthon’s Sallust; Horace, Illustrated Edition; Andrew’s Ovid; Glories of the Catholic Church; Church and Science —Wiseman; Anecdotes ol Napoleon; Rome et Loretto; Itineraire de Rome d Jerusalem—Chateaubriand, 2 vols.; ■ Horatii Opera; Ballusti Opera; Virgilii Opera; Quints Curtii Opera; Phadri Fabulae; Ovidii Metamorphoses; Anglo-Saxon Church—Lingard; Manual of Mythology; Treatise on the Human Soni; Italy and the Italians—; Vieusseaux; Greek and Roman Literature—Louage; Chesterfield’s Letters; History of the Catholic Church; Spiritual Exercises by St. Ignatius; Poems by J. D. Collins; Autobiography and Personal Recollections of J. B. Gough. Selections from the Spectator. For these, and the other works presented, the Librarian tenders his sincere thanks. -
602
TSE NOTRE SAMS SCHOLASTIC.
iiarta
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabet!* cal order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger, J. P. Brice, M. T. Burns, F. Brennan, F. M. Bell, B. J. Claggett, J. Casey, B. Casey, W. Connolly, R. Campbell, G. E. Clarke, T. F. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, A. Dobson, fl. Deehan, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, L J. Gittings, C. L. Hagan, G. Harns, W. Hesse, J no. Hunt, C. H. Karins, T. Kavanagh, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, P. B. Larkin, F. Lynch, R. Lannam, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, M. J. McEniry, P. McCormick, E. Molitor, A. Meyer, C. Moore, T. A. Mattingly, W. McAtee, L. Mathers, J. Marlett, J. Noonan, G. Nester, L J. Newton, R. C. O’Brien, J. Osher, G. Pike, L. M. Proctor, W. Ryan, O. Randolph, T. W. Simms, H. C. Simms, J. Solon, P. F. Shea, L. Stitzel, J. Smith, F. Smith, L. Smith, W. Scholfield, F. X. Wall, H. Wathen, A. Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. B. Byrne, J. F. Browne, A. J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, F. Becker, M. Burns, M. Butler, V. Butler, F. Carter, A. Caren, A. M. Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, W. S. Cleary, J. D. Coleman, H. F. Devitt, 8. T. Dering, F. T. Dever, T. F. Devitt, J. E.-Davis, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, H. G. Foote, J. J. Gordon, L. J. Gibert, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, F. Glade, fl. G. Guynn, E. J. Gallagher, E. F. Gall, A. J. Hintze, J. A. Herrmann, A. F. Hellebusche, F. R. Johnson, P. A. Joyce, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, L. 8. Keen, R. Le Bourgeois, 8. Livingston, F. McPhiilips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, F. P. Mor-risson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, J. P. O’Neil, E. A. Otis, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy F. B. Phillips, F. A. Quinn, G. <1. Quinn, C F. Rietz, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Kose, C. F. Kose, A. 8. Rock, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. Sugg, J. W.Start, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, J. A. Simms, K. C. Simms, K. M. Parrett, C. Schneider, H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, W. T. Weney, F. Zeis, B. Zekind, A. Hierh.
’	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, J. S. Smith, F. Mattes, C. Droste, E. A. Howard, H P. Dunn, W. H. Hanavin, G. P. Van Mourick, A. Van-Mourick, J. J. Henry, H. A. Kitz, H. C. Snee, G. E. Knight, W. M. Olds, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, C. C. Echlin, G. E. Tourtillotte, J. A Campau, G. Woodson, A. A. Molander, W. V. O’Malley; F. B. Farrelly, A F. Schmiickle, W. Ayres, J. A. Kelly, J. E. Johnson, L. J. Young, C. Young, H Metz, C. Metz. W. Miller, H. J. Ackerman, J. E. Chaves, J. fl. Dwenger, J. R. Bender, E. C. Campau, J. W. Bannister, E. N. O’Donnell.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ABTS, AND SPECIAL
BRANCHES.
C. J. Brinkman, A J Burger, E. Litmer, J. Hermann, C. Rietz, J. Gibbons, F. Scheid, C. Perry, fl. Rose, C. Rose, C. Roberts, F. Carter, F. Grever, 8. Livingston, R. Le Bourgeois, F. Becker, G. Rhodius, A Hierb, R. Pomy, F. Groenewald, J. Morgan, F. Zeis, A Burmeister, J. Weitzel, A Hellebusch, F. Kleine, H. Bachman, J. Seeger, S. Dering, W. McGorrisk, E. Gaines, M. J. Burns, E. Molitor, E. A Conyne, J. V. Cable, J. Davis, E. Sugg, A. Tate, G. Clarke, R. Campbell, D. Donahoe, D. Harrington, K. O’Brien, T. Simms, F. Wall, A J. Burger, W. Connolly, P. Shea, R. Keenan, E. Ewell, F. Phillips, O. Farrelly, M. Vedder, J. Marlett, A Lent, B. Pollock, F. Quinn, J. Guthrie, E. Fogarty, C. Tinley, F. Johnson, R. Johnson, F. Bloom, B. J. Claggett, R. O’Connor, F. Kinsella, E. Gall, G. Quinn, J. B. McGrath, W. McCarthy, C. Hagan, D.Danahey, E. Orrick, A. Zahm, J. O’Neill, F. Bell, G. Donnelly, L. Smith, E. Croarkin, H. Deehan, M. Burns, J. Brice, A Rohrbach, J. Schobey, W. Thompson, W. Start, W. Jones, 8. Henoch, J. M. Kelly.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. C. Echlin, C. E. Droste, J. S. Smith, G. E. Knight, W. H. Hanavin, J. J. Henry, W. M. Olds, F. Mattes, H. C. Snee, H. A Kitz, E. A Howard, D. G. Taylor, J. M. Couttney, J. 8. Courtney, G. Tourtillotte, H. P. Dunn, A. Van Mourick, G. P. Van Mourick, G. Woodson, A A Molander, J. W. Bannister, J. A. Campau, W. Ayres, J.E. Johnson, J. A. Kelly, W. V. O’Malley, F. B. Farrelly, E. C. Campau, H. J. Ackerman, W. Miller, C. Metz, J. H. Dwenger, E. N. O’Donnell, A F. Schmiickle, H. Metz, J. R. Bender.
—Visitors: Very Rev. Father Benoit, Rev. Father Hartnett, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Rev. Father Bockelman, Goshen, , Ind.; Mrs. Garrity, Mrs. Walsh, Chicago; Mr. Swayze, ~ Richmond, Ind.; Mrs. Cortright, Hyde Park, Ill.
—The esteemed Vicar-General of the diocese of Fort ' Wayne, Rev. Father Benoit, honored the Juniors by accepting their invitation to be present at their reunion. Theodosia Ewing and Elize Papin gathered a bouquet of flowers, and presented it to the honored guest, with regrets that the Juniors were not informed of the favor he was to bestow by his visit in time to be prepared as they would like.	'
—Very Rev. Father Benoit, of Fort Wayne, officiated at Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament on Tuesday evening. Miss Godbert sang an “ Ave Maria," by Mine, and an “ 0 Salutaris," by Beethoven. On Sunday at High Mass the same beautiful voice breathed out a worthy praise of the Blessed Virgin in an Ave Maria, by Cheru- . bini, and the adoration of the heart in an “ 0 Salutaris," by Etchenrerry.	(
—The Mass of the Children of Mary on Monday morning in the Chapel of Loretto was said by Very Rev. Father General, and was followed by an instruction on the feast of the day, “ Our Lady of Christians.” He designated woman as “the universal reparatrix ” for the sins of the z| race, and uttered impressive and eloquent praises of the Blessed Virgin, in which her indisputable right to her title, “Auxilium Christianorum," was clearly established.
—At the regular reunion in the Junior Department the reading was “ Welcome to Very Rev. Father General, from j Mater, Admirabilis" by Catherine Campbell; “Invocations a, Marie" par Mgr. Dupanloup, by Mary Feehan; “Ave ■ Maria," by Clara Ginz; and a recitation “ The Sisters,” •	,
Eleanor C. Donnelly, by Catharine Lancaster. The reunion was held in the pavilion of Mt Carmel. The statue of Mater Admirabilis, & beautiful life-sized figure, is the most prominent adornment of the Juniors’ study-hall, and the special welcome is explained from this circumstance as Father General presided at the reunion, which the Juniors expected to take place in their study-hall.
—At the regular Academic reunion, which was presided over by Very Rev. Father General, the reading was Rosa Mystica,No\. VI,No,4. Editors: Misses Cavenor arid Galen. Contents: Editorial—Distinguished Guests; Arrival of Very Rev. Father General; Whit Sunday and the Distribution of the Gifts and Fruits of the Holy Ghost; A	1
Graceful Transposition; Music Notes; Extract from a School Girl’s Letter; The Catholic Religion not a Matter of Opinion; Official Notes; Chemical Excitement; A -Tribute of Affection; The Prizes; Partings; A Convent Picture. Very Rev Father General spoke upon the advantages of good reading; the effects of a given literary production is greatly enhanced, by being well read; a clear, distinct pronunciation is an indication of a vigorous, 4 ' active mind. A superior reader must possess a superior mind.
Boll of Honor.
____	.	4.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF ;
MUSIC.	[
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE	I
Graduating Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 1st 41) Class—Misses Gordon, Buck. 2d Div.—Misses Sullivan, Ussel-	I
man, Neu. 2d Class—Misses Kirchner, Campbell, Rosing, Killelea, Farrell. 2d Drv.—Misses McMahon, Hackley. 3d Class—Misses Semmes, Wells, Callinan, Salomon, Gall, Bruser, Reinhard, Maloney. 2d Drv.—Misses C. Hackett, Julius, Donnelly, Woodin, H. Hackett, Bischoff, English, Horner, A Ewing. 4th Class—Misses Davis, Crummey, Price, Palmer, Cavenor, C. Campbell. 2d Drv.—Misses Wurzburg French, Fox, Mitchell, Leydon, Van Namee, Otto, Garrity. 5th Class
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	608
t,	—Mieses Gavan, A. Dillon, Regensburg, Casey, Danaher, O’Con-
Inor, C. Wathen, Purdy, Loeber, Keys, Brown. 2d Div.—Misses ’ Dessaint, Thompson, Wells, Hammond, Feehan, Simms, S.
Wathen, Reutlinger, Orr, Harrison, Hutchinson, Gibbons, Wall, E. Populorum, C. Lancaster, Legnard, Lancaster, Cronin, Moxon, Lloyd, Tallman, Populorum, Fitzgerald, Paddock. 6th Class—Misses Fishburne, Rasche, Fleming, Barlow, Dun-v can, Murphy, Greenebaum, McFadden, De Lapp, Baroux, I	Knighton, Ryan, Papin, E. Ryan, Carter, Chirhart. 2d Div.—
Misses Ginz, G. Taylor, Watson, Moll, Edelen, Clarke, Wilkins, Taylor, Wright, Ward, Lemontey, Cox, Zimmerman. 7th Class —Misses Engel, Smith, McCormick, Reynolds, I. Hackett, Me-
—.	Closkey, Halloran. 8th Class—Misses Butts, Heeney, B. Gar-
rity, Cleghorn. 9th Class—Misses Strong, M. Fitzgerald, M. if	Baroux, Chaves. 10th Class—Misses P. Ewing, T. Ewing.
/	Harp—1st Class—Miss Galen. 2d. Div.—Misses I. Semmes,
I	Dillon. 3d Div.—Miss Bruser.
L	Organ—5th Class—Misses C. and S. Wathen.
|	Harmony—1st Class—Misses Galen, Dillon, Keenan. 2d.
I	Class—Misses Buck, Gordon. 3d. Class—Misses Usselman, Neu.
f	Exercises—Misses Galen, Dillon, Buck, Usselman, Neu, Camp-
1	bell, Hackley, Gall, Saloman, Wells, H. Hackett, Bischofi, Eng-
I < lish, Davis, Crummey, Palmer, Price, Otto, Wurzburg, Regens-I	burg, Orr, Cronin, Legnard, Lancaster, Gavan, Wall, E. Popu-
1	lorum, Moxon, Rasche, Greenebaum, Knighton, Ginz, Moll,
3	Wilkins, Taylor, Reynolds, Engel, McCormick, Hutchinson,
fl	Harrison.
A	VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
Im	1st Class—Misses Silverthorne, Kirchner, Gordon. 2d Class
fl	—Misses Usselman, Hackett. 3d Class—Misses Bruser, Rosing,
i	O’Connor, Buck, Farrell, Reinhard, Julius, Saloman, Sullivan,
s	A. Ewing. 4th Class—Misses Wells, Hackley, I. Semmes,
9.	Otto, E. Hackett, Purdy, Mitchell, French. 5th Class—Misses
McMahon, English, Moxon, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Rutlin-a	ger, Simms, Edelen, S. Wathen, Brown, Paddock, Thompson,
a	Rasche, Halloran, McCoy.
|	ART DEPARTMENT.
I	DRAWING.
2d Class—Misses Loeber, Wall, Callinan, Horner. 3d Class . —Misses Crummey, Feehan, Hammond, Baroux, Garrity, Bar-low.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Butts, Thompson, Casey, Fox, J. Wells, Lancaster, C. Lancaster.
.	China Painting.
Misses I. Semmes, Dessaint, A. Ewing, Zahm.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Neteler, Hambleton, Buck. 2d Class— Misses I. Semmes, Cortright, Dessaint, Killelea, C. Campbell, Gavan, Dillon, Zahm. 3d Class—Misses English, Sullivan, Purdy, Winston, Papin, Otto, French.
GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Misses C. Hackett, Fitzgerald, A. Ryan, Halloran, M. Simms, Rasche, Donnelly, Tailman, Murphy, Edelen, Quinn, Bruser, Walsh.
Junior Department—Misses Carter, Duncan, E. Populorum, Knighton, Gibbons, Legnard, Paquette, Jaeger, Harrison, I	Claffey, Clarke, Reutlinger, Lemontey, McCloskey, A. Dillon,
I	P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Haney, Hutchinson, E. Ryan, C. Ryan.
i	Ornamental Needlework.—Misses 8. Wathen, Danaher,
[	Otto, Gavan, Mitchell, Smith, Donnelly, C. Wathen, Murphy,
Callinan, Orr, Populorum, Reynolds, McCormick, McCoy, Crummey, Davis, Simms, Regensburg, Wall, Legnard, Duncan, Ginz, Casey, Halloran, Reinhard, Salomon, Horner, Palmer.
■p- Wurzburg, Paddock, Hucheson, Gibbons, Greenebaun, Hammond, E. Populorum, Papin, Ward, Chirhart, McCloskey, Krieg, Cox, Wilkins, E. Papin, Keys.
Plain Sewing and Dress-Making—Misses Gordon, Wall, Sullivan, Lancaster, Reinhard, Saloman, Regensburg, Kreig, English.
General Mending—1st Class—Misses Gordon, Killelea, Hackett, Silverthorne, Cavenor, Ward, Ryan, Rosing, Kirchner, Loeber, Danaher, Dillon, Neu, Bischoff, Wall, A. Smith, Taylor, Zahm, English, Winston, McMahon, Lloyd. 2d Class—Misses >	Hackley, Mitchell, Otto, Donnelly, Gall, Wells, Bruser. 3d
Class—Misses C. Lancaster, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, O’Connor, Callinan, Keena, Thompson, Cox, McFadden, Hammond, Reynolds, Moxon, A. Dillon, Julius, Baroux, De Lapp.
Tablet of Honor.
for politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
1	Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, Ewing, Neteler, Cavenor, Sul-
livan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, L Semmes, Mitchell, Winston, Walsh, Leober, Fitzgerald, Donnelly, Gall Wells, Dallas, McMahon, 8. Wathen, . Palmer, Taylor, Zahm, Lancaster, Simms, Dessaint, Gavan,
Thompson, Rasche, Wright, Engel, Wurzburg, A. Smith, McCormick, Krieg, McCoy, par excellence. Misses McGrath, Woodin, Hambleton, A. Ewing, Gordon, Neu, Otto, Usselman, 8. Smith, De Lapp, Julius, Bischoff, C. Wathen, Campbell, O’Connor, Bruser, Murphy, Keys, Moxon, Horner, Paddock, Hackley,- Price, Baroux, Orr, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Hammond, Saloman, McFadden, Purdy, Reinhard, Halloran. Leydon. Wall, Reynolds.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon, C. Campbell, L. Populorum, Van Namee, 8. Semmes, Casey, Crummey, Fishburne, G. Taylor, McCloskey, C. Ryan, Carter, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Reutlinger, Chirhart, E. Populorum, Ginz, Paquette, Hutcheson, Harrison, Zimmerman, E. Papin, Considine, Jaeger, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Knighton, B. Garrity. M. F. Fitzgerald, Robinson, M. Baroux, Campau, Chaves, par excellence. Misses Feehan, Fox, Butts, French, Lemontey, E. Hackett, Papin, Me. N. Garrity, Wells, Dallas, Watson, Joseph, Moll, Gibbons, Ryan, Duncan, Barlow, Legnard, Clarke, Fisk, Wilkins.
Weekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly a» Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, or 70.
TH III A. V 111 M A "RTA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Bailawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western .Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
Chicago, st. paul and Minneapolis line is the shortline between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, comer Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, comer Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’L, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
604
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attornevs at Law.
Three Great Cities of the West -
JAMES H. WARD, (of *78,) Attorney and Counsellor at Law, Rooms 63 and 65 Metropolitan Block, N. W. Cor.
La Salle and Randolph Sts., Chicago, Di.
SPEEB & MITCH EL t. (N. 8. Mitchell, of ’72) Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Bra^y St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS u. CLIFFORD (of ’62). Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway vcot. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
J OUST F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
WILLIAM J. CLARKE (of ’74), Attorney at Law
Rooms 8 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St, Columbus, O.
BOYS AND GIRLS
Should ask their parents to buy for them, every week, the new Catholic picture and story paper—
It is full of Stories, Sketches, and Pictures in which boys and girls take delight. It has notes on Games and Amusements There is something in every Number which will please every membe of the family.
It can be ordered from any News Dealer. If there is any difficulty in procuripg it, send a line to the publisher, P. V. HICKEY, New York.
Subscription, $3 per Year; $L50, Six Months; $1, Four Months.
Single Copies....................G Cents, Address
THE ^ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC AMERICAN,
11 Barclay St., New York, N. Y.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Hile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical _____________and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory tpid Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital.
0T In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for twit in the finest declining Chair Fulacs Cart in •	ths world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Min-ini districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and Information apply at any coupon Ticket Office In the United States and Canada, or to
Jambs Charlton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Manager.
210 Dearborn st, near cor. of Adams, Chicago,
4>
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	605
►
The Lemonnier Library,
B^Mished at Notre Dame in 1872for theueeofthe Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWARDS.
NOTBB Dm, INDIANA.

BI
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER nr Watches, Clocks,
AISTD
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH JBEND, INDIANA.
iAMAN
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R,
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Bock Island. Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capitil of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Bailroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars arealsorunbetweenMilwau-kee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Bock Island Short Line.”
BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST I Dinina Can for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections beingmade in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GBEAT THROUGH LINE ABE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
• At Englewood, with the L. 8.4M.8, andP^ Ft. W. AC. B. Rds. _
At WASHINGTON HEIGHTS, With P-, C. St St. L. B. B.
At La Salle, with Ill. Cent. R.R.
At Peoria, with P. P. St J.; P.D. AE.; L B.A W-; Ill. Mid.; andT.P. A W. Rds.
At Rock Island, with “Milwaukee A Bock Island Short Line,” and Bock Isl’d A Peo. Bds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Diviaion C. M. A St. P. B. B.
At West Liberty, with theB.. C. B. St N.B.B. At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. B.
At DES MOINES, with D. M. St F. D. R. B.
At Council BLUFFS, with Union Pacific R. R. At OMAHA, with B. A Mo. R. R. R. in Neb.) . At Columbus JuNCTioN,withB.,C. R. AN. BA
At OTTUMWA, with Central IowaR-R.;W., St. L. A Pac., and C. B. AQ. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with ToL/Peo. A War.; Wab^ St. Louis A Pac., and St. L., Keo. A N.-W. B. Bds.
At Cameron, with H. st. J. B. B.
At Atchison, with Atch.. Topeka St Santa Fe; Atch. A Neb. and Cen.Br. U. P. K. Bds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pact, and Kan. Cent. R. Rds.__
At Kansas City, with all lines for the West and Southwest.
The “Great Bock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Dlinoisand Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served tn any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pulman Palace Seeping Can for sleeping purposes, and Palace	____
piTT.T.MAN PALACE CARE are raa through to PEORIA, DE8 MOINES. COUNCIL BLUFFS, KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVEIWORTH.
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Boek Island Rente,” araaoUky an Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada. ...
For Information not obtainable at yoar home ticket oflee, address, A. KIMBALL,	XL ST. JOHN,
Geu’l fiuparintudMl.	Owl Tkt. sod Pass’gr Agt, „
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE-DAME, INDIANA.
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the 3 usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farm- ? ing region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the j United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake -Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at 1 Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.	1
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.	/
The Univbbsitt affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of	t ]
CLASSICS,	LAW,	|
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notbe Dame gives a more complete business training than can be ob- 4 y tained in any purely Commercial College.	|
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE	j
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.	>-
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.	)
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.	j
Catalougbs, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the Prerident,	-
Very Rev. W. COBBY* O. S. C., Notre Dame P. O. Indiana. b