Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper vic turns; vive quasi eras moriturus.
r	—
V olume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY. 25, 1878.	Number 39.
[For The Notre Dame Scholastic.]
Our Alma Mater.
A SONNET.
Where the tall poplar rears its stately head
And purling streams in clear meanders flow, A beauteous college stands from which there go
On each commencement-day, with buoyant tread,
A band of youth who, by fair Science led, And Virtue her twin-sister, here below Fear not the mazy labyrinths of woe
Which on this earth by wily hands are spread;
But armed by Principle, that priceless gem
Which lent by Heaven to our terrestrial globe
Exalts and beautifies the race of men,
And clad by Virtue in a sinless robe,
They walk undaunted through life’s narrow glen, Their footsteps winding to the realms above.
John G. A. Sullivan.
The Wars of the Roses.
During the reign of Henry VI a party spirit arose in favor of the Duke of York, a descendant of Edward III, who had a double right to the throne, being the son of Ann Mortimer and Richard Earl of Cambridge. Ann was descended from Lionel, the third son of Edward III; Richard, Earl of Cambridge, from Edmund, Duke of York, the fifth son of Edward III.
The chief adherent of the House of York was Warwick; of the House of Lancaster, Somerset. A dispute arose in the Temple Gardens, regarding the claims of the competitors; and as it could not be settled, Warwick plucked a white rose, and bade his followers do the same; while Somerset took a red rose, and said: “ Whoever is for Harry of Lancaster, let him wear the red rose”; thus burst forth the flames ot civil war, the sparks of which had been smouldering since 1399, when Richard II was deposed by Henry Bflingbroke, who ascended the throne under the title of Henry IV.
There were twelve important battles, known as “The Wars of the Roses,” namely:
1st, At St. Albans, May 3rd, 1455—Yorkists victorious.
2d, Blore Heath, Sep. 23rd, 1459 —	“	“
3d, Northampton, July 10th, 1460—	“	“
4th, Wakefield, Dec. 30th, 1460—Lancastrians	“
5th, Mortimer’s Cross, Jan. 30th, 1461—Yorkists	“
6th, 2d Battle of St. Albans, Feb. 17th, 1461—Lancastrians victorious.
7th, Towton, March 29th, 1461—Yorkists victorious.
Sth, HedgelyMior, April 25th, 1464—	“	“
9th, Hexam, May 15th, 1464—	“	“
10th, Barnet, April 14th, 1471—	“	“
11th, Tewkesbury, May 4th, 1471—	“	“
12th, Bosworth, Aug. 22d, 1485—Lancastrians	“
The first battle—St. Albans—was fought May 3d, 1455; the Lancastrians were defeated, Somerset slain, and Henry VI wounded. He (Henry VI) was compelled to acknowledge the Duke of York Protector of England. In 1456 Henry recovered his health, and was again acknowledged king. Warwick had been appointed Captain of Calais, but was superseded by the young Duke of Somerset. Warwick refused to resign. A battle was fought at Blore Heath, Sep. 23d, 1459, in which the Yorkists were victorious. Warwick met the Lancastrians, July 10'.h, 1460, at Northampton, and completely defeated them. Margaret and her son fled. Shortly after Henry VI entered London and claimed the throne. His claim could not be disputed; but the lords resolved upon a compromise: that Henry should retain the crown while he lived, and that the Duke of York and his heirs should succeed to it after his death. Margaret was enraged at such a proposition, and prepared to give battle at Wakefield, Dae. 30th, 1460.
The Duke of York felt confident of success, but was disappointed; he was slain. Margaret treated her opponents with great rigor; had a number beheaded, and ordered that the head of the Duke should be raised on the gates of York and a paper crown put on it.
Jan. 30tb, 1461, was fought the battle of Mortimer’s Cross, in which the Yorkists were victorious. They treated the Lancastrians as they had fared after the previous contest; but on the 17th of Feb., 1461, at St. Albans, the Lancastrians gained the victory, and Warwick fled, leaving Henry to join Queen Margaret; but she, finding that a strong party of Yorkists had preceded her to London, could not make her entrance, and was dbliged to go towards the north. Edward, son of Richard Duke of York, was in London, and demanded the crown;—there was a solemn recognition of him as king, March 4th, 1461. He advanced towards the north,—the two armies met at Towton, March 29th, 1461, where a bloody battle, which secured a complete triumph for the Yorkists, was fought. The royal fugitives fled to Scotland. E Iward IV was not publicly crowned at Westminster until June 29th, 1461. He created his brother George Duke of Clarence, and his brother Richard Duke of Gloucester. Margaret, having received some assistance from the King of France, Louis Xf, led her troops from Scotland, and gained some slight advantages; but on the 25th of April, 1464, she was defeated by Lord Montacute, brother of Warwick, at Hedgely Moor, and three weeks later, at Hexam, May, lath, 1464, suffered another defeat. Passing through the forest, she and her son Ed ward met a robber, and finding it impossible to escape she threw herself upon his generosity
1
610
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and intrusted her son to his care. The robber was elated with the confidence reposed in him, and conducted her to the sea-coast, whence she escaped to Flanders.
In 1464, Edward IV married Elizabeth Woodville. Previous to this, the Earl of Warwick had been commissioned to France to procure Bona of Savoy as queen for Edward' IV; but while the Earl was absent, Edward married Elizabeth. When Warwick returned he was enraged on account of this insult, also because the relatives of the Queen had gained the affection and preference which the King had bestowed upon him. Warwick immediately espoused the ciuse of Margaret, deposed Edward IV, and reinstated Henry VI on the throne,—from which circumstances he received the title of “ the King-maker.” Edward IV returned with reinforcements and defeated the Lancastrians in the battle of Barnet, April 14th, 1471; Warwick was slain, and Elward IV was completely victorious. Henry VI, who had been led out to Barnet, was taken back to the Tower. Margaret had just returned from France, where she had been soliciting supplies, when she received the news of Warwick’s defeat and death. She resolved, with her remaining followers, to make another effort, and met E.l ward’s victorious army at Tewkesbury, May 4th, 1471. Her troops were totally defeated. Both she and her son were taken prisoners. The Prince was brought before Edward IV, who asked him how he dared invade his kingdom. The young boy replied: “ I came to recover my father’s inheritance”; the brutal tyrant struck him on the face, and the Dukes of Clarence and Gloucester stabbed him. Margaret and her husband were thrown into the Tower, where it is general!}’ believed Henry VI was murdered by the Duke of Gloucester. Edward IV died in 1483, leaving two sons—Edward V, Prince of Wales, and Richard, Duke of York.
Richard, Duke of Gloucester, brother of Edward IV, was named regent during the minority of Edward V. No sooner was Edward IV dead than Richard of Gloucester determined to seize the crown, and having put the two young Princes to death, was proclaimed and crowned by the title of Richard III.
The Duke of Buckingham, through whose assistance Richard III had gained the crown, was loaded with honors; but he soon became disgusted with Richard’s tyranny, and entered into a conspiracy to dethrone him and place Henry Tudor, Earl of Richmond, on the throne. This Prince was a Lancastrian, being descended on his mother’s side from John of Gaunt, and on his father’s side was the grandson of Owen Tudor, who had married Catharine, the widow of Henry V. Buckingham raised a large army in Wales and marched against the king; but being deserted by his followers, he was obliged to conceal himself for -safety. He was, however, soon discovered, and being brought to the king, was immediately beheaded (1483). Richard summoned a parliament and obtained from it a recognition of his title. In order still further to strengthen his power he wished to marry Elizabeth, daughter of Edward IV. He never effected this marriage. However, to accomplish it, he caused his consort, Anne of Warwick, to be poisoned. His crimes excited universal detestation, and Henry Earl of Richmond, being invited into the kingdom, sailed from Normandy with a small force. Men flocked to him from all parts; as he advanced towards Shrewsbury, and at Bosworth he was opposed by Richard. A fierce battle ensued, August 22d, 1485; but Richard, deserted by a large part of his army, was defeated and
slain. The Earl of Richmond was crowned on the battlefield, with the title of Henry VII.
The Houses of York and Lancaster were united by the marriage of Henry VII with Elizabeth of York, daughter of Edward IV. By this union peace was cemented, and the “Warlike Roses,” twined in the same regal garland, rested upon the brow of the Earl of Richmond, the new King of England.	M.
The Dog and the Robin.
This third day of May, 1878, as I stood looking towards the Music Hall, I saw a robin perching on a post for safety, . while a young ratterrier was sniffing around the post for rats. Presently,the dog glanced up and took a sharp look at Master Robin, his wistful gaze implying, almost as clearly as if expi essed, the wish: “ Oh, if I only had you! ” But Master Robin looked at the little dog with a disdainful air, which meant as much as: “ Come and take me if you can! ” Yes, kind reader, that little robin on his perch, defying the dog, felt as big and as grand as any king or queen that ever graced a throne. Presently the dog, likely disgusted with his fruitless gazing, and giving it up as a bad job, turned away, evidently thinking to himself: “ What is the use of losing my precious time for nothing! There is plenty of work for me elsewhere at Notre Dame, especially around the Music Hall. There is a hole! who knows but there may be a rat in it?” So he took one more wistful look at Master Robin, and away he went. Coming to the rat hole, doggy poked his nose into it, but alas! there was no rat upon which to vent his rage, so he sneaked off and hid himself behind the door of the Music Hall, where he kept a sharp eye on Robin. In a short time the latter lit on the ground to pick up a breakfast out of some crumbs of bread, etc., that lay around, but shortly after he reached the ground, and was hopping about, eagerly picking up anything he could get, out rushed the dog with lightning speed and terrible greed to make him his prisoner. But alas for the terrier, he was doomed to disappointment. Away flew the robin and lit on the top of his post again, very much tickled at the “ long face ” which his friend the dog made after his useless manceuvre. With a proud and defiant look the robin kept his perch on the post, determined to await a better opportunity of get-ing something to fill his empty stomach. The dog hung his head in shame and hid himself behind the door again, peeping out with keen and watchful eye to see what Master Robin’s future movements would be. The latter, not seeing Mr. Dog, lit on the ground again, to try his luck once more. He took a grand run, as fast as his two little legs could carry him, but scarcely had he picked up a few crumbs when out rushes Master Dog from his hiding place. But the greedy and now angry rat exterminator was again baffled, for ere he could reach him away flew Master Robin, and took up his perch on the new fence near the Franciscan House—safe and sound, and looking very grave! The disappointed terrier, whose ferocity was pretty well cooled down by his defeat, got behind the door again to await another chance. . Robin, seeing that his enemy had retreated and was nowhere in sight, lit on the ground again, and ran around picking up the balance of his breakfast. He was very busy, and thought of no danger, for he could not see his adversary the dog hidden behind the door of the Music Hall. But look out, Master Robin; there is danger near! There, what did I tell you?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	611
All at once^there was a rush, a leap, and the mischievous little terrier sprang at the poor bird. But the latter was smart enough for the nimble quadruped; away he flew, up and off, now quite frightened, for this time the dog almost had him. After several more such attempts as I have described, the robin gave up the idea of getting a breakfast in that locality and flew towards the Ave Maria and Scholastic office, to get something in that charitable and more congenial neighborhood, while the dog, seeing his master coming, wheeled about and hid himself behind the wall of the Music Hall.
Thus it is that many who are strong and rich oppress and harass those who are weak and poor, grudging them the scanty allowance necessary to support life. Many boys, also, who are gifted by nature with a robust constitution take advantage 01 this gift to annoy and persecute those weaker than themselves, instead of aiding and protecting them as God intended they should. So also with rulers and nations, who are not satisfied with enough, but will have more at the expense of their weaker neighbors, picking a quarrel with them on the slightest pretext and then, rowdy-like, wrenching from them by force that to which they have no legitimate claim. “ Alas, for the rarity of Christian charity”—thatcharity which animated the Christians of the early ages; there is now nothing but war and strife, persecution, injustice and robbery. The affair of the dog and robin might teach many a lesson, and show them that the time and pains spent in annoying others .will often bring them nothing and might be put to much better account.	 H.
Moral Courage.
Moral courage, though not praised as highly as physical, is nevertheless a virtue which should place its possessor far above the ordinary level of mortals. Physical courage is indeed deserving of respect, and the brave man is justly held in high esteem by his fellow-men. Physical ’ courage has afforded many a poet a theme on which to display his power; but the home-like virtue of moral courage is seldom mentioned, and the verses which we meet extolling it are comparatively few. A man may possess physical courage to an eminent degree but may be sadly lacking in the higher attribute alluded to. We often find one without the other, but sometimes both are found in the same individual. It more frequently happens, however, that, we see men brave physically, and able to face any danger or undertake any duty without flinching, but let them be exposed to the slighest temptation or to the shafts of ridicule, and they fall, simply because they have not the moral courage to carry them through.
If we look to history we can see recorded on its pages the lives and deeds of the great men of former ages, with their grand and noble achievements set forth in glowing colors,—the countries they have conquered, the great acts they performed for their country, and each noble deed receiving its meed of praise. But in all this we cannot find the true character of the man; we must look to his private life if we wish to form a true estimate of him. Here his good qualities or defects are to be seen, deserving of praise or censure as the case may be. Many of the historical heroes of former ages, and even the great men of later times, have shone before the eyes of the world, but their private life was deplorable, and would, if generally known, detract much from their reputation. To illustrate, let us take Alexander the Great. In his public career we find in
him a hero, drawing all eyes upon himself and his achievements; in private, too, he might be deemed worthy of praise were it not for one defect, namely the lack of moral courage to resist the passion fordrink; for the man who had overcome the then known world was in his turn miserably conquered by the cup of sparkling wine.
In our own day we have many examples of men who had held prominent positions in the land but were cast down from these high stations and degraded in the sight of the world because they had not moral courage sufficient to resist some petty temptation.
While, on the one hand, the exploits of the brave are heralded to the world, the possessor of moral courage passes quietly along the path of life, and does not seek to make known to everyone with whom he comes in contact that he is the possessor of extraordinary gifts; yet he is really a braver man than the conqueror on the field of battle. How many dreadful examples have we not seen of persons who were invincible in battle, or the fire of whose eloquence moved the hearts of thousands, and who yet have gone to a drunkard’s grave because they had not the courage to resist the desire for strong drink!
With young persons it is one of the hardest trials to withstand the importunities of a companion to take part in anything that their conscience does not approve, because of the natural proneness to evil and because the character is not yet formed. How many suicides might be avoided if moral courage were instilled into the minds and hearts of the young! But sufficient care is not given to this, and as a consequence we have men who for very trivial reasons will destroy the life which God has given them and which it is His privilege to take from them. Moral courage, like everything else, may be acquired by nearly everyone, but it cannot be attained in a few months; and if after years of hard struggle a person has got all his passions under control he may deem himself happy.
If moral courage is wanting all the good resolutions which are made will avail nothing.	F. C.
My First Year on a Farm.
AND FIRST EFFORT AT JOURNALISTIC WRITING.
In the year 1871, father determined to try his hand at farming. He bought a farm about ten miles from the city, and, after due preparation, we started off in the month of February for our new place of abode. As we journeyed towards it through the rich farming country, we met some of the old agricultural veterans and already looked upon them as brother-farmers, while they, with the curiosity natural to people of their calling, would stand and look at us in a sort of inquiring way. And they were not satisfied until the organs of speech came to the assistance of those of sight, which are nearly as keen in these farmers of the backwoods as in the red man of the forest.' I don’t mean to say that all farmers will thus stand and gaze at the passer-by—no, only those who live in solitude, and who see very few strangers.
Feasting our eyes on the various scenes and beautiful diversities in nature as we passed them by, on we went, and no very long time had elapsed when we came in sight of our future home. I gazed intently on its surroundings, wondering meanwhile if I could enjoy myself there as well as in the city.
For the first few weeks, hunting and strolling through
612
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the woods were my favourite amusements. I took good care, however, not to go too far into these happy huntinggrounds for fear of—well I didn’t know what; for there were not as many wild animals within a hundred miles of the place as might he found in the College Museum here, and which were found straying through the premises a few weeks ago. My imagination could conjure up no Indians, solitary as the place was, for I knew that they had long years before turned their faces towards the setting sun, steadily pursued by the steel of the white man. I knew all this, but still the solemn loneliness of the woods caused me to feel a little timorous—perhaps it was upon instinct, as Falstaff would express it.
Two or three weeks more it would be time for us to show our skill at farm work, and how I longed for that time! I thought there was no man so happy as he who held the plough, and after spending one year at the business I am of the same opinion still. There is one serious objection that most boys and young men brought up in the city have to farming, or rather to living on a farm, namely, that it is too lonesome. After their day’s work they may select some beautiful spot to rest—a spot which princes might envy—still they are not satisfied; they may no doubt be alive to all the beauties and grandeur of nature about them, yet there is something wanting in order to make their happiness complete, and this something is a longing for the companions by whom they were surrounded in the city. Though naturally very quiet, and not much given to company, I was no exception to this rule. I loved to go out and work on the farm, but the work could not last always. Sunday was a day of rest, and it was then that I felt my loneliness most. Just think of getting up on a bright and beautiful Sunday morning, and instead of hearing the church bells chiming, the people hurrying to and fro, and the buggies rattling over the pavement, with the merry laugh of the happy ones who are bent on amusement ringing in your ears, you hear nothing but the lowing of the cattle, the barking of the dogs, and the cackling of the k	chickens—the pigs joining once in awhile in the chorus—
and oh! what a chorus! If there is any one so fortunate as not to have heard them, then I would advise him never to go within a mile of where they are. He might as well go into a shop where so many men are filing saws as to go within hearing distance of the porcine chorus to which I refer. I could stand the combination of noises from all the other denizens of the farm-yard, but the chorus of the pigs was too much for my nerves. To avoid it I would stray off to a favorite resort, a beautiful spot on the banks of a creek which ran through the farm, and there reposing on the green banks, with the stately oak and lofty pine above my head, the rippling brook at my feet, I would lay for hours with an entertaining book or enjoying the natural beauty of my surroundings.	J. P.
A Medical Prodigy.
The death is announced of Amelia Hohenester, a resident of Mariabrunn, Bavaria, a real medical prodigy, who was known under the name of the “ Baner'ndoctorin ” (the peasant doctress). For three years in the beginning of her career she had much to contend with from the opposition of professional physicians, but the marvellous success of her cures, which had drawn persons of the highest rank to the simple Bavarian village, soon silenced
all opposition. The pure mountain air, the use of suitable food for the patients, the application of none but vegetable medicines, taken either internally or externally as the case required, and above all, the marvellous penetration of the simple illiterate woman, who by her accurate diagnosis could cast in the shade the greatest physicians of Europe, were the means of her wonderful success. That there was not a shade of superstition or quackery in all this is evidently proved by the social standing of most of her patients, headed by no less a personage than the E npress of Austria, who in 1860 failed to obtain relief in the mild climate of Madeira from incipient consumption, and who is now able to support the fatigue of a fox-hunt, for which pastime her majesty goes every winter to England. She takes great delight in this -amusement, and is one of the most daring and accomplished horsewomen of the age. Next in rank comes the Grandduchess Mary of Russia, the Emperor’s sister-in-law. She resembled a skeleton when she came to Mariabrunn, and left it in the bloom of health. The Russian Minister of Police, Count Trepoff, visited Mariabrunn four times, and the hero of Sebastopol and Plevna, General Todleben, three times. Gortchakoff and Ignatieff have also been there. Even two princes from the East Indies made a journey to this favored spot. No less than fifty persons underwent reguler treatment daily during the summer season, and at least half as many in winter," not counting those who departed after a short consultation. During the winter months several secretaries were engaged in attending to her large correspondence with all parts of the world, especially Northern Germany, Russia and Poland. Even honest adversaries admitted the correctness of her medical diagnosis. The remedies usually applied were either in the shape of teas, baths, besides oils prepared from Alpine plants for rubbing the suffering members. Nearly all her customers have left their photographs in the album of this rural doctress, with a dedication couched in words of the greatest respect and gratitude.

Scientific Notes.
•—In the dense forests in the northwestern portion of Tasmania, specimens of the Eucalyptus are said to occur which are more than 300 feet in height
—W. H. Leggett, of New York, has issued a “Botanical Directory,” giving the name and address of all the botanists in the United States, so far as they are known, with information regarding the exchanges they would like to make.
—The Honiteur Universel, imitating the example of the New York Herald and the London Hews, has dispatched an explorer, M. P. Soleillet, for Equatorial Africa. The investigation of openings for French commerce is to be a prominent object of the enterprise.
—At the last meeting of the Royal Astronomical Society an interesting and original oil-painting was shown, representing a landscape in the moon, and indicating the appearance of the earth and stars from that satellite. The picture, it is said, will be publicly exhibited during the present season.
—Lieut. Cambier has succeeded the late Capt. Crespeb in the command of the Belgian East-African Expedition. The party purpose setting out from Zanzibar for the Tanganyika, toward the close of May. The plan of taking oxwagons has been abandoned, on account of the bad condition of the roads.
—Duke Charles Theodor of Bavaria, brother to the Empress of Austria, through a love for science some years ago studied a regular course of surgery and medicine at the best German universities, underwent a rigid exam
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
613
ination, took his degree of doctor, and had the honor to preside last fall at a convention of German physicians and naturalists.
—Dr. Asa Gray will soon publish the first part of the “ Synoptical Flora of North America,” a continuation of Torrey & Gray’s Flora of North America, which ended with the order' Compositae. The present volume of the work includes all the Gamopetalae after Compositae, and fills over 400 8vo. pages. It will be brought out by Ivison,* Blakeman, Taylor & Co., New York.
—The Central Society of Agriculture of France is the oldest institution of its kind in Europe. It was established during the reign of Louis XV, and has never been suppressed or interrupted during its more than a century of existence, march 13 the Society took possession of a splendid edifice erected for its use and presented to it by M. Behague, one of its active members.
—A harmless and effective agent for coloring confections and vegetables is obtained by dissolving the chlorophyll of parsley and similar plants in a solution of caustic soda. The chlorophyll is precipitated by the addition of alum, and the precipitate, after washing, is dissolved in a solution of sodium-phosphate. By using this liquor in the preparation of confections and vegetables, the chlorophyll is absorbed, and imparts a natural green color.
—Mr. Robert Collett has been studying the glacial and post-glacial fishes of Norway, which are found perfectly preserved in lumps of chalk occurring in clay-deposits at a level of 360 feet above the sea. The fishes all belong to the existing fauna, and display their Arctic and North-Atlantic origin. The most common of the species described is the Mallotus villosus, which is found everywhere. The Clupea sprattus is notable for being now a native of more southern waters.
—Experiments have been made in the Jardin d’Acclima-tation, with the view of testing the adaptation of the Selz —one of the most valued of Chinese fish—to European waters. A three years’ trial proves that the fish thrives in the European climate, and it is hoped that it may be extensively introduced through the country. The fish belongs to the carp family, feeds on aquatic plants, multiplies rapidly, and in a comparatively brief period attains a weight of forty pounds.
—The Stradivarius violin, date 1704, known to connoisseurs as the “Betts Strad,” has been purchased by Mr. George Hart for the sum of 800 guineas. Some seventy years since it was bought by John Betts, the violin maker, for a sovereign, and he declined all offers of sale, though the then unprecedented sum of £500 was tendered; but after his death it was disposed of to M. Vuillaume of Paris, and afterwards to M. Wilmotte of Antwerp, from whom its late owner purchased it.
—The British Government has made official acknowledgment of the service rendered by our own Government in the transmission to Australia and New Zealand of eggs of the California salmon. The United States Fish-Commission dispatched nearly 1,000,000 eggs to those colonies, free of cost except that incurred in packing and shipping. Ninety-five per cent; of the eggs have hatched and been planted in the waters of the two countries, and the people are duly appreciative of the gift.
—A curious phenomenon has occurred in the neighborhood of the village of Dragnignan, in France. An elliptical tract of ground, including an area of over 10,000 square feet, gradually sank one day to the depth of 100 feet and more. The subsidence was accompanied with loud noises, and, when concluded, a body of water at the bottom of the pit covered the submerged land from view. A similar phenomenon occurred In the same neighborhood a century ago, and both cases are referred to the action of subterranean streams.	'
—Part I of au Bibliographical Index of North-American Botany,” by Sereno Watson, has been lately published by the Smithsonian Institution. The work is to be complete in two parts, and will contain a full catalogue of the plants growing within the region extending from Greenland and the Arctic Ocean, on the north, to the borders of Mexico, on the south, and from the Atlantic to the Pacific. The part already issued forms a volume of 480 pages, end covers
the ground of the first volume (issued thirty-five years ago) of Terrey & Gray’s Flora of North-America,—i. e., of the Polypetalous Dicotyledons. It is a most valuable contribution to the botanical literature of America.
—Dr. Crevaux, who was sent out by the French Government to explore the interior of French Guiana, has returned to Paris after completing one of the most arduous journeys in the annals of South American discovery. After having fulfilled his instructions to penetrate the Tumne-Humoc range, he determined to make the passage of these mountains and descend into the valley of the Amazon, an attempt which has several times been tried in vain during the past three centuries. Although deserted by all his attendants, with the exception of a negro, he succeeded, after overcoming numerous obstacles and battling with famine during a march of sixteen days across an uninhabited tract, in reaching the head waters of the Gary, whence a canoe voyage brought him to the Amazon. Of the 500 leagues traverse in this journey, 225 were hitherto completely unknown. '
—An interesting discovery has been made lately, according to Lieutenant Kitchener, by the French monks at Jerusalem. While digging for the foundation of a new school on the site of the Kal’at Julud, or “Goliath’s Castle,” they came upon four massive piers of ancient drafted masonry. A number of ruined vaults and masses of rubbish have been removed, and now the ancient work is uncovered almost down to the rock. Two of these piers were seen by Major Wilson, and were, in his opinion, of mediaeval date; but the lower portions now disclosed seem to be earlier. The French monks are quite confident that they have here discovered the foundations of the tower of Psephinus. The stones are large, measuring 8ft. Gin. by 2ft. 9in. by 2ft. 4in. high, and 7ft. 6in. by 2ft. Sin. by 2ft. 4in. high. Some are rather smaller; they are all drafted, the draft varying from three to four and a half inches. The joints are carefully finished, and the courses are quite regular. The stones are fixed together by a thin layer of very hard cement. The bosses are left rough, and project in some cases as much as eight inches. The stones show no signs of being weather-worn.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The gigantic statue of Charlemagne, which was cast by Thiebault, and weighs about sixteen tons, has been erected at the entrance to the Paris Exposition.
—Hans Makart has contributed to the Vienna Exposition a new picture representing “ The Entry of Charles V into Antwerp,” which is attracting much attention.
—That interesting traveller and ingenious savant, Alfred R. Wallace, has published with Macmillan & Co., of London, a new volume on the tropics, called “ Tropical Nature and Other Essays.”
—Houghton, Osgood & Co. publish this week in their series of “Choice Autobiography” the “Memoirs' of Francois Marmontel,” to which is prefixed a charming essay by Mr. Howells.	'
—The Russian painter Verestchaguine, who accompanied Gen. Skobeleff during the late war, is now in Paris, occupied in painting some of the most terrible incidents of the campaign in which he took part.
—A volume of “Recollections of Two Distinguished Persons,” viz.: the Marquise de Boissy and Count de Waldeck, is about to be published by J. B. Lippincott & Co., with.photographic illustrations.
—About 120 pictures are hung in the portion of the Fine-Art Department at the Paris Exposition accorded to Americans. Two-thirds of these pictures were selected by the jury in New York, and the remainder were contributed by American artists in Europe.
—Nature, which was begun in 1870, under the editorship of Mr. Norman Lockyer, has become so successful that its weekly issues are to be enlarged, beginning with the number of May 2. It is said to have a larger circulation in this country than any other English journal.
—John Church & Co. will publish shortly “The Admiral’s Daughter,” a new operetta by Mr. H. J. Wetherell. They have now ready in handsome form the
614
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
music sung at the great May Festival in Cinncinati. Their New York office has a supply for Eastern orders.
—Dr. Charles Mackay’s new work on “ The Gaelic Etymology of the Languages of Western Europe, and more especially of the English and Lowland Scotch, and of their Slang, Cant, and Colloquial Dialects,” is about to be issued, in the first instance, to the subscribers, and afterwards to the public.
—The Gallery of Historical Portraits at the Paris Exhibition will present to view more than seven hundred paintings by the best artists of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, reproducing the features of all the great men of past ages. These pictures have all been lent from private collections.
—Miss Stebbins’ “Life of Charlotte Cushman” will appear in a single crown-octavo volume, and will contain a portrait of Miss Cushman from a photograph, a heliotype of Miss Stebbins’ bust of her, and a picture of her Newport villa. The book is on the eve of publication by Houghton, Osgood & Co.
—Since the work of excavating on the estate of the Spinelli family, which occupies the site of the ancient necropolis of Suessola, was resumed this spring, a large number of important bronzes have been brought to light. The tombs which are opened appear to belong to three different epochs.
—A work containing the “Primeval Legends of the Paradise, the Deluge, of the Land of the Pleiades, and Their Connection with a Divine Benefactor and the PreChristian Cross,” is in preparation by Mr. R. G. Haliburton. It will contain the results of wide research into the worship of the Pleiades.
—The new encyclopedia of chemistry now under publication by J. B. Lippincott & Co., of Philadelphia, has reached its thirtieth part, making ouly ten parts more before its completion. Its title is “ Chemistry, Theoretical, Practical, and Analytical, as Applied to the Arts and Manufactures.”	’
—Messrs. Low have ready “ The English Catalogue of Books for 1877: Containing a Complete List of All the Books Published in Great Britain and Ireland in the year 1877, with their Sizes, Prices, and Publishers’ Names; also, of the Principal Books Published in the United States of America; with the Addition of an Index to Subjects.”
—A series of antique bronzes were discovered at Cagli, in the Province of Pesaro, early in April. One of the finest of the collection is a woman’s head, a little under life-size. A statuette of Hercules shows on the feet traces of the process of founding. It has been conjectured that the place where the bronzes were found was formerly the site of an Umbrian foundry.
—The pedestal of the statue of Cornelia, the daughter or Scipio Africanus, and mother of the Gracchi, was discovered April 13th, while a street in the vicinity of the ancient Porticus Octavias, in Rome, was being dug up for the purpose of making a sewer. The marble bears the inscription: “CORNELIA AFRICANI F GRAC-CHORVM.” The statue standing upon this pedestal was probably that described by Pliny, and known to have remained till the Lower Empire, in the days of the Praefecti Urbis.
—S. M. Pettingill & Co., of New York, publish a “ Newspaper Directory and Advertiser’s Hand-Book,” for 1878, comprising a complete list of the newspapers and other periodicals published in the United States and British America, also the prominent European and Australasian newspapers. It is carefully compiled, and contains many interesting facts as to circulation, etc., with hints to advertisers as to cost and methods. There are numerous portraits of prominent newspaper men.
—The catalogue of rare and valuable books just issued by Jansen, McClurg & Co., Chicago, has attracted large attention in the East, and has received the highest compliments from the press. The intelligence and culture of the Northwest could not have a surer advertisement than the fact that such books are in demand. Some of our Eastern brethren have even expressed astonishment that books of such value should find a sale in this new world, which has arisen upon the Western prairies almost like the work of a magician.
—M. Charles Verlat, Professor at the Antwerp Academy, has a large painting at the Paris Exhibition, entitled “ The Defender of the Flock,” and showing a combat between a lion and a bull. The Academy gives currency to the statement that, “ In his studies for this work, made, at the Zoological Gardens of Antwerp, M. Verlat always had before him six studies of the auimal he was painting, taken in six different positions, which, according as the creature moved and changed its position, he worked at in turn, so that he might be able to express its various attitudes, and thus give a true effect of movement.” -
—The Biennial May Musical Festival, held at Cincinnati, Ohio, on the 14th, 15th, 16th and 17th of this month was a grand success in every respect. It was attended by some thirty or forty thousand people, and the receipts were far in excess of the expenses. The music was all rendered in a highly successful manner, and while the soloists were praised on all sides the chorus won high encomiums. Undoubtedly it is the grandest chorus in America and will compare favorably with any in the world. The Orchestra, under the leadership of Thomas, was magnificent. The new music hall, for which Cincinnati is indebted to the generosity of a Catholic, Mr. R. R. Springer, is the largest in the United States.
—The American Architect and Building News says that those who visit the Paris Exposition for architectural purposes will probably find more to interest them in the numerous buildings typical of their several countries than in the Palace of the Trocadero or in the Main Building. “ Among the most interesting are the Moorish palace, containing the Algerine exhibition, the river-front of which will reproduce the fasfade of the Mosque of Sidi-Ben-Medineh. At Tlemeen, the Chinese and Japanese buildings, each built by native workmen; and to Americans, the five English buildings: the pavilion of the Prince of Wales, designed in the Elizabethan style,—a half-timbered house, designed by Mr. Gilbert Redgrove, with richly-carved woodwork,—a terra cotta building, furnished by Doulton and the Shoolbreds,—a Queen-Anne house, designed by Mr. Norman Shaw,—and another building, designed by Mr. Colcutt.”
—It is well known that the British Museum contains some magnificent remains of Greek, art called the Elgin Marbles, on account of their having been brought to England through the instrumentality of the then Earl of that ilk, who obtained from the Sultan a firman permitting him to remove any antiquities or sculptured stones he might require. The work was given to contractors, who undertook the job for a fixed sum, and did the dismantling in a reckless way, utterly shocking to classical antiquaries, one of whom stigmatized Lord Elgin as “ the person who defaced the Parthenon.” Mr. Mahaffy in his recent “Rambles and Studies in Greece” says that on his return from that country to England he went to visit these Marbles at the Museum, and tound that they “ lost so terribly by being separated from their place, looked so unmeaning in an English room, away from their temple, their country, and their lovely atmosphere, that I earnestly wished they had never been taken from their places, even at the risk of being made a target by the Greeks or Turks.” '
—The sixth number, concluding the first volume of Dr. John Janssen’s “Geschischte des Deutschen Valkes seit dem ” Ansganye des Mittelalters (History of the German people since the close of the medieval age) has just appeared. The object of this work is a thorough and precise illustration of the causes which brought about the so called Reformation of the XVIth century. The author has succeeded in reversing the opinions hitherto entertained about this epoch of German history, and all fair-minded and well meaning people will have entirely new and different ideas on this subject. Protestants still believing in the principles of Christianity have not been loth to acknowledge the author’s ability. The Protestant orthodox organ Die Beichspdst devotes to the five preceding numbers a, series of editorials stating that this new “ History of the German people is the work of Catholicism, and that Catholic Germany could not boast of a similar work since Moehler’s Symbolism. It is, they say, indeed a work of boundless importance.”
—Robert Clarke & Co., of Cincinnati, have just published
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
615
a book upon the great Cincinnati Organ, abuot which we have heard so much. The book has official sanction, and is edited 6y George Ward Nichols, who is President of the Association which built the Organ. This excellent book not only describes the mechanism of the musical part of the Organ, with the decoration of the screen, but it fills a place in the literature of the Organ, which, for some unexplained reason, has always been vacant. No one has ever before thought it necessary to tell us what an organ really is—what is meant by “ stops,” “ wind chests,” “ swell boxes,” “ pneumatic action,” “ trackers,” and all the other technical terms. These are clearly explained in this book, so that any one may understand them, and the explanation has —	especial value, because it describes the most complete, and
"	one of the largest Organs in the world. With the above,
the book has a brief description of the new Music Hall, and it is charmingly and profusely illustrated with engravings of the splendid carvings of the screen. The Organ Book will be remitted by the publishers, by mail, on receipt of its price, 25 cents.
—The Prince of Tenors, Mario, was described during the recent trial of Madame Rachel, we are glad to know, quite incorrectly, as living no w at Rome in great poverty. Mario’s countless admirers in Europe will rejoice to learn that this is not so. M. Perivier, of the Paris Figaro, was in Rome, in fact, during the month of January last, and then saw Mario, whom he describes as a fine old man, with a long white beard, whose 70 odd years have in no way lessened his gaiety and vivacity. His conversation still sparkles i	with wit, and is filled with reminiscences of Paris, London,
St. Petersburg, and Naples, the scenes of his greatest triumphs. In Rome he is a general favorite, and everybody delights in listening to his anecdotes of his celebrated contemporaries. To fill up his leisure time and amuse himself he has become an antiquary, and has all the curious information which old Rome suggests at the tips of his fingers. “ If any one asks about me,” hesaid to M. Perivier, Son parting, “ you can tell them you have left Mario on the ruins of Rome, as my old ancestor, Marius, was seen on the ruins of Carthage.” He is, in fact, proprietor of a very good house in the Corso; and at the time of the funeral of the late king, when some one proposed to him to let the 11 windows of his facade at the price of 1,000 fr. each, he refused, and said he preferred seeing them occupied by his friends.
Books and Periodicals.
Sir Thomas More. An Historical Romance. Translated from the French of the Princess de Craon. By .Mrs. M. C. Monroe.
Letters of a Young Irishwoman to Her Sister. Translated from the French.
The Trowed and the Cross, and Other Stories and Sketches. Alba’s Dream, and Other Stories. Original and Translated. Assunta Howard, and Other Stories and Sketches.
Stray Leaves from a Passing Life, and Other Stories.
The above named stories are received from the Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street, New York. It is unnecessary for us to speak of each volume in particular. The literary merit of each is excellent, and the form in which they are issued is also very neat and tasty. All of the stories have appeared in The Catholic World and have been read by many. For those who have not the pleasure of receiving the visits of this excellent magazine we would especially recommend these volumes.
The Four Seasons. By Rev. J. W. Vahey. New York, The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street. 1878. The object of this little book of Father Vahey’s is to show the serious evils resulting to children from attendance at public schools. Under the form of dialogue his instructions are given, and the effects of Godless education during the four seasons of human life are shown.
The Two Victories, and Other Tales. The Vatican Library No. 4.
The Straw Cutter’s Daughter. The Vatican Library, No. 5. New York: Hickey & Co. 11 Barclay St. American News Co. General Agents.
These volumes may be had at five cents a copy, a very
small price. Let everyone encourage the publishers in their excellent design of furnishing cheap Catholic literature; remember the words of Pio Nono: “ I bless with" very great, heartiness all who aid in diffusing books of small size, in which the people will have an antidote to preserve them against the impiety of the perverse and. filthy press.” Hand-book of Instructions and Devotions for the Children of Mary. Translated from the second French edition by Rev. J. P. O’Connell, D. D. New York: Catholic Publication Society Co, 9 Barclay Street. 1878.
This manual, it would seem to us, is just the proper thing for the members of the Sodality of the Children of Mary. Nothing that we have seen heretofore is equal to it, and a glance at the table of contents is enough to prove its fitness for the end it has in view. We recommend it to pastors who have sodalities of the Blessed Virgin among their parishioners.
—The Sweet Singer of Michigan, in an idle moment, dashed off these touching lines: “ If you feel a little pale, think of Joner and the whale and the frightened phace of Joner when he he thought himself a goner.”
—In England, in the year 706, Adhelm, Bishop of Sherburn, translated the Psalter into Saxon. Egbert, Bishop of Lindisfern, translated the four Gospels into the same, Saxon, and after these the Venerable Bede, who died in 735, translated the whole Bible from the Vulgate into the same language. In this reign of Alfred, who died in the year 700, a new translation of the Psalms was commenced, and zEfric, Archbishop of Canterbury, in 995, tranalated the five books of Moses, Joshua, Job, Judges', Ruth, part of Kings, Esther and Maccabees. In England, the whole Bible appeared, according to Usher, in 1270. In the fourteenth century, Wycliffe issued a second Bible. Wharton, Usher and Wood, in the Antiquities of Oxford, speak of Trevisa’s translation as the oldest. In 1582 the New Testament was published at Rheims, reprinted at Antwerp, in 1633; both old and new, at Douae, in 1609, revised in 1750, and is now the Catholic English version throughout the world. After the art of printing, which was little used until 1462, and before 1534, the date of Luther’s German Bible, there were in the vernacular languages of Europe more than seventy editions of the Bible. In Italy, 14 editions; in France, 19; in Germany, 15; in Holland, 9; in Spain, 2; in Bohemia, 4. Thus it appears that the existence of the Bible in the vernacular languages of Europe is a great fact that was true before Luther was born or the Reformation started in Germany. —Catholic Opinion.
—In a convent there lived a monk who every evening showed remarkable faintness and relaxation. The abbot asked him one evening what the cause was: “ O,” answered the monk, “I have every day so much to do that my strength would not reach it if it were not for the grace of God which sustains me. I have two falcons to tame, two hares to keep back, two hawks to train, a dragon to conquer, a lion to restrain, and a sick person to attend to.” “Oh,” said the abbot, “ these are silly complaints; such affairs are not at the present time given to any person, and in my convent I have never heard of such orders having been given.” “And yet, Rev. Father,” continued the monk, “I have not said an untruth. The two falcons are my eyes; these I have to watch with great care lest they take pleasure in anything which would harm my soul. The two hares are my feet; these I must constantly keep back that they walk not in sinful pleasure and lead me on the way to sin. The two hawks are my hands; these I must train to push on my work that I may feed and comfort myself and suffering Brothers. The dragon is my tongue; this I must constantly keep bridled that it may not speak improper and useless words. The lion is my heart, with- which I must constantly wrestle that vanity and self-love may not fill it, but that the grace of God may dwell in it. The sick person is my body, which stubbornly demands this and that, and questions not whether it will be conducive to health or meritorious of eternal life. All this exhausts me daily.” The abbot listened with satisfaction to the explanation of the monk and said: “My Brother, you work in the vineyard of the Lord; He will reward your trouble and fatigue with the everlasting supper.”
616
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
jVotl’e Dame, May 35, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered npon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any-former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should.take it; and, above all,
Oli> Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per	Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Misdirected Education and its Consequent Evils.
We have often in these pages called attention to a great mistake made by many educators at the present day— namely the cultivation of the intellect, of the mental faculties, to the total exclusion of the moral faculties; the cultivation of the head to the utter neglect of the heart, so that when young men have gone through a course of several years at some of our non-Catholic colleges they are in reality nothing more than intellectualistic animals, men whose souls have become so dwarfed and cramped within them that they scarcely know they possess such a thing as a soul at all. The evils of such training have long since begun to manifest themselves, and in a manner that should, and has, alarmed solid thinkers as to the future of our people and country; but the cause of these evils are, we regret to say, allowed to continue all the same; remedies for one or more of them are mooted, but never a word, never a thought as to the removal of their prolific cause.
Moral principles being neglected in youth, the consequence is that a mere intellectually educated man in after-life possesses no guide for his thought or actions, and licentious habits are contracted that carry him often beyond the pale even of common decency and the standard of decorum in civilized society. Even when he does not go so far, there is but a film separating him from the chasm, and the danger is constantly imminent that he will lose his balance and plunge into shameful excesses. Speaking in general terms in this way, one would think such extremes too revolting, and not often to be met with except among the most depraved classes of society. But is this the case? Let us take a passing glance—not at the habitues of low places of amusement, variety-shows, and the like, but at the movers in what is considered ‘high life’ in America, during the past ten years,—go we to Washington, the Paris of America, where we should sup
pose the creme de la creme of the intellect and culture of the land would be gathered in greater proportion than anywhere else, and how comparatively few will we find whose character will stand a crucial test, even without entering into a close examination of their private lives! Take the prominent men of any city or town you please, and then those of the country at large,—see the defalcations, the forgeries, the unscrupulous overreachings, frauds, deceit, divorces, and general corruption manifested, and you have a practical exemplification of the truth of our assertion. Why, only a few years ago a member of Congress forged an old woman’s name for a hundred or more dollars, presuming, likely, that his fraud would not be discovered; while some of our courts are turned into divorce marts.
To what, we would, ask, is this moral corruption owing, if not to the want of proper training of the heart in youth ? These men have little or nothing in the way of conscientious scruples,—they scarcely know there is a God who rewards the good and punishes the wicked,—scarcely believe there is such a place as a hell for the wicked or a heaven to reward the just—and the consequence is that they acknowledge no restraint in wickedness but the fear of discovery and the humiliation it may bring upon them. There is none of that manliness, that innate honesty of principle and greatness of heart that, with few exceptions, is found’ only among those who have had a proper moral training in youth, either at home or at school.
But some one who has himself been bitten by the black serpent may say that the Godlessly educated are not alone in this respect—that they have among them some persons, not a few, who had received a Christian training, and who are not a whit better than they are. Conceded; but what does this prove ? That if even with a Christian training there will be a few who, notwithstanding the knowledge that there is an Omnipotent Being who rewards the good, and punishes the wicked with the pains of hell,—who, notwithstanding all this, will so far yield to their evil propensities as to be willing to undergo an eternity of misery for a temporary gratification—of a few moments, a few days, or at most a few years,—that if, even in these, corruption is so strong, what must it be in those who have no knowledge, or but little, of an omniscient Judge, or a place of eternal reward or punishment? Taking a parallel case, we have now many jails and penitentiaries throughout the land,-and above and behind all these the scaffold, to punish crime and lawlessness: nevertheless we see that some people will be found, and not a few, to commit crimes and risk the punishment, either of imprisonment or hanging, but is this an argument against penitentiaries, the scaffold, or some commensurate punishment ? Do away with them altogether, and what will be the consequence?
Just so it is with moral training in youth; if there are a few exceptions to be found even among those who have had such training—if an occasional black sheep will be sent out from among them, as there will be as long as human nature exists, yet these few exceptions cannot be made or considered a rule, and the advantages claimed for a moral and religious training in youth are still what we claim for them, thus making it the greatest boon that can be conferred upon the young,—far greater than .wealth, even though it were enough to purchase the Indies,—far greater than intellectual training alone, no matter if all the wisdom of antiquity were compressed into it; for such an intellectual pagan might, with all his acquirements, still be a disgrace to humanity; whereas one who lives up to the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	617
moral code inculcated by the Gospel of Christ cannot be other than an honor to his race in the measure in which
he keeps it.
The Year Past.
L
l
In the course of a few weeks the June examinations will take place, and since with these examinations the work of the members of the faculty will end we deem appropriate in advance to congratulate them on the great success which has attended their labors during the past scholastic year. The attention, devotion and zeal manifested by them was untiring, and the thought of a duty well performed must of itself be to them a sweet reward. The results of this attention, devotion and zeal have corresponded more than fully to their results and every class in the College has given general satisfaction. This is a circumstance gratifying in itself, since everyone must rejoice in the improvement of the students, and wish to procure their advancement in the various branches of study to which they apply themselves. But it is a source of still greater satisfaction to the members of the faculty when they look upon it, as they are justified in doing, as a harbinger of still greater things for the future, and the assurance that Notre Dame will continue to march still onward in the career of progress, in that way that has ever marked her past history.
The marked success of the past year is due to many and various causes. Notre Dame has reason to be proud of the officers to whose care the management of the affairs of the College has been committed, proud of the members of her faculty, proud of her students. The officers of the house have been active and vigilant with regard to discipline, studies, and the comfort of the students. The members of the faculty have qualified themselves for their onerous duties, and have not failed in accomplishing all that could in reason be expected of them. Particular attention has been paid by the officers of the house, as well as by the Professors, to facilitate the student in his acquisition of knowledge and to stir up within him that spirit of emulation which is so important, in fact so necessary to success. Nor have the students been backward in co-operating with the faculty in this important matter, but have displayed a heartiness and love for study that were gratifying in the highest degree. The lectures delivered from time to time have had much to do in accomplishing this. One of the wants of the country is not so much to force into the minds of youth the elementary details of science, or cram them in spite of themselves with a knowledge of which they understand neither the beauty nor the grandeur, as to fill their minds with a love of mental development by holding up to their view the grand realms of science which by their industry they may one day enjoy, and turn as well to their own utility as to the general benefit of society. This effect has been produced by the Professor in the class-room, and by the lecturer in Phelan Hall, and we expect to see at no future day the students themselves occupying no mean rank as lecturers, but one which will be a credit to themselves and an honor to Notre Dame.
The system of class honors and of competitions continued with so much care during the past year, has been productive of great emulation among the students, and has brought forth good and abundant fruits. Most men when left to themselves are of opinion that they already know enough, or at least prefer a state of inaction to assiduous and continued application. Progress, however, no matter what the natural ability of the man may be, must come
from toil. No genius, however great, can dispense with labor under pretext of innate ability. A Demosthenes, an Aristotle, a Thomas of Aquin, a Bacon, a Humboldt, a Caesar, or a Napoleon can never be looked upon as spontaneous growths. Their distinction is due to many causes perhaps, but not least of these is their persevering study, their reflective observation and their long experince. But to stir men up to work, there must be amongst them a peaceful contention, an amicable rivalry, and a strong desire to excel. Such are the feelings which have been excited in our students this past year by the monthly list of class honors and by the regular monthly competitions. But the competitions have had another and no less worthy effect. The student naturally labors for glory, and this glory he deserves to enjoy. Therefore he desires to look forward with confident assurance that college rewards and honors will be distributed according to merit, and according to merit only. By the system followed here at Notre Dame, his ability and progress are calculated with almost mathematical accuracy thus leaving his mind in repose, and encouraging him with the moral certainty that no chance of accident may deprive him of any distinction to which in justice he is entitled. It is to be hoped that the prosperous state in which Notre Dame has found herself this past year may long continue, and be always on the increase for the advancement of science and the glory of religion. May Notre Dame be ever blessed, as she has been this past year, with energetic of ficers, devoted professors, and gentlemanly and zealous students.
- Personal.
—Among our visitors the past week were the Misses Walsh of Chicago.
—Prof. Emil Zott has been engaged by the Gillespie Choral Union as Director.
—Mr. Augustus Erb, of Mishawaka, Indiana, visited Notre Dame the past week.
—Rt Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., will arrive at Notre Dame next Wednesday.
—Thomas Brady, of ’58, is practicing law in the upper peninsula of Michigan, at whatplaee we were not informed.
—Daniel Hibbard (Commercial), of ’71, is practicing law in Detroit, Mich. Mr. Hibbard holds the office of Circuit Court Commissioner and is doing very well. .
—Rt. Rev. Dr. Borgess, Bishop of- Detroit, Mich., visited Notre Dame on Thursday and Friday. The Rt. Rev. Bishop is now making the visitation of his diocese. He is in excellent health.
—In looking over the Terre Haute Gazette we saw that, in a recent shooting match held in that city, Mr. J. W. Bell (Commercial), of ’77, shot only one bird less than the champion of that place. The shooting was done at thirty-one yards rise.
—We see by the telegraph that Frank McVicker (Commercial), of ’62, the youngest son of Manager McVicker of Chicago, and brother-in-law of Edwin Booth, the distinguished tragedian, died lately in Boston, Mass., of hemorrhage of the lungs.
Local Items.
—We hope that no manuscripts will be trotted out on Society Day.
—The members of the Boat Club practice daily and seem to enjoy it.
—The Mutuals beat the Jacobites at baseball on the 19lh by a score of 14 to 8.	.
618
THE NOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
- —Baseball, boating, hunting, 'fishing, rackets, etc., occupy the hours of recreation.
—Mr. J. J. Fitzgerald will represent the Columbian Literary and'Debating Club on Society Day.
—Those who will make their First Communion next Sunday began their retreat Thursday morning.
—We understand that the Thespians will play the “ Malediction” on Tuesday evening of Commencement-Week.
—Mr. Bonney will now attend to all wishing photographs every Wednesday. In a short while he will make his visits daily.
—The regular weekly meeting of the faculty will next week take place on Tuesday,Thursday being the Feast of the Ascension.
—The scenery about St. Joseph’s Lake (the upper lake) is now really lovely, and; the promenade on the banks is greatly frequented.
—Vespers to-morrow will be from Common of Martyrs, p. 45 of the Vesperal; the hymn. Deus tuorum, p. 46. The Mass sung will be Missa Paroulorum.
—The Philopatrians, after giving one of the most suc-cessfuLEntertaiuments, settled down’to hard’study and are now preparing for the examinations.	.
—The 31st regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society took place on the 17th.- K. L. Scanlan was elected to represent the Society on Society Day.
—The St. Cecilians will give their second Entertainment of the year on the fourth of June. They will give “ Major Andre ” and the “ Virginia Mummy.”
—Quite a number of Juniors went out botanizing last Wednesday. They brought back with them watercresses enough to supply all the Fables in the Junior refectory.
—The May devotions will end next Friday evening. May 31st, with Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. We trust that there will be the same solemnity that marked the opening night, or rather make it even more solemn.
—The 12th regular meeting of the {Thespian Association was held May 17th. Mr. Eugene Arnold was appointed the representative of the Association on Society Day. The various committees handed in their reports and were dissolved.
—The Gillespie Choral Union has been reorganized and promises to furnish plenty of vocal music on Commencement-Day. Prof. Emil - Zott will be the Musical Director, giving two rehearsals every week. We wish the members all success.	.
—The 33d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held on the 16th. W. A. Widdicombe was elected to represent the Society on Society Day. The Monitor’s report was read. Mr. Healy was appointed to make the address of the Society at their Entertainment.
—The 31st regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held on the 18th. Mr. Doherty was elected Recording Secretary, vice Spalding, and De Vries, Marshal. Mr. Fitzgerald was elected the representative for Society Day. Reports of the Critics and Treasurer were read.
—The Jacobite Baseball Club is the latest organization in the Junior department It is named after its captain. We understand that' the Club will play for practice with the Mutuals and the Excelsiors, and then challenge the club that wins the greatest number of games in the champion series.
—Rev. Father Zahm has quite a large force at work putting up cases, shelving, etc., in the Museum. He is in hopes of having everything in first-class order by Com mencement-Week. All the specimens now in Phelan Hall will be added to those lately purchased, and all will be kept in the same hall.
—The Mutuals and the Excelsiors will not enter the lists for the championship of the College, but will play a series of games of baseball for the championship of the Junior department Two good nines have been selected, and we have every reason to believe that the games will be exceedingly interesting.	•
—Next Thursday, May 30th, is Ascension Day. Rt. Rev.
Bishop D wenger will celebrate Pontifical High Mass, five priests, besides two masters of ceremonies, assisting. On the same day there will be made by some of the students their First Communion, and the Sacrament of Confirmation will be given. In the afternoon the renewal of the Baptismal vows will take place.
—The following are the officers of the Mutual Baseball Club: Bro. Leander, Director; Bro. Paul, Hon. Director; C. Walsh, Captain; J. Burger, Treasurer; C. Clarke, Secretary. The nine is composed as follows: Burger, C. ; Byrne, P.; Walsh, S. S.; Mathews, 1st B.; Clarke, 2d B.; Keenan, 3d B.; C. Hagan, L. F.; Baker, C. F.; G. Itten-bach, R. F.; Crawford, Substitute; Scorer, Kickham Scanlan.
—A young lion has been purchased for No 4. He looks very fierce, and our Professor seems very proud of him. It is more with sorrow than anger that he looks upon the unregenerate youth who puts cigars into the lion’s, mouth. By the way, we think we will get us a lion also. Placed in our office, we will allow it no food save cigars,—twenty-five cent ones—and we hope all our friends will see that he is well fed.
—This last month the Editor of the Scholastic offered a prize for the most proficient in the First Catechism Class, of which there are some twenty members. The competition came off last week, and it was found that Masters Frank Clarke, Columbus, Ohio; Frank McGrath, Chicago;-K. L. Scanlan, Chicago; and W. McCarthy, Boouesville, Mo., were first. In drawing for the prize Master McCarthy won it. The second best competitions were written by Masters G. Cochrane, Chicago, and J. Baker, Fort Wayne.
—In the garden in front of the College we saw quite a large knot of persons the other evening, just returned from the post-office, many of them having an open paper in hand, the whole party evidently interested in the news. On inquiry we discovered that a kind friend and former student in Cincinnati, Michael B. Kauffman, had sent these papers, containing accounts of the opening of the great music festival at Springer’s Hall in that city; and these persons, most of whom are connoisseurs in music, were now discussing the details among themselves.
—The Excelsior Baseball Club were organized on Monday, May 20th, to compete for the Junior championship. The following are the officers: Br. Leander, Director; Br. Paul, Honorary Director; Geo. Sugg, President; M. H. Bannon, Captain; W. Widdicombe, Field-Captain; W. B. Walker, Treasurer; M. H. Burns, Secretary; J. McNellis, Censor. The positions are: M. H. Bannon, Catcher; W. Cox, Pitcher; G. Sugg, S. S.; W. Doyle, 1st B.; W. A. Widdicombe, 2d B.; M. H. Burns, 3d B.; W. Walker, L. F.; J. McNellis, C. F.; A. Rietz, R. F.; G. Donnelly and E. Pennington, Substitutes.
—On Tuesday, May 21st, Rev. A. Louage, C. S. C., Master of Novices at Notre Dame, celebrated his Silver Jubilee, the 25th anniversary of his ordination. In his honor the Novices gave a salute of twenty-five guns. In the morning the Rev. Father sang High Mass in the chapel of the Novitiate, at which all the Novices attended. Dinner was served up in fine style and was partaken of by a large number of invited guests, among whom we noticed Very Rev. A. Granger, Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, Very Rev. President Corby, Rev. Fathers L. J. L’Etourneau, J. Veniard, R. Shortis, C. Demers, T. Maher, J. Saulnier, Jno. Lauth, T. E. Walsh, E. S. Lilly, C. Kelly, Bros. Vincent, Edward, August, Philip, and Prof. Schnurrer. Eveiything passed off in an excellent manner, the Rev. host receiving the congratulations of all. In the afternoon the students in Theology here sat down to a lunch prepared for them by the Rev. Master of Novices, and joined their congratulations to those of the Novices and the priests. The day was pleasantly spent, and Rev. Father Louage has a right to feel happy because of his Silver Jubilee.
—The following books have been placed in the Lemon-nier Library: The Church and The Gentile World at the First Promulgation of the Gospel, 2 vols., Rev. Aug. J. Thebaud, S. J.; Genesis of Species, St. George Mivart; Great Stone Book of Nature, David Thos. Ansted; Chris-tain Ethics, D. S. Gregory; Theory of the Earth, James
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	. 619
Hutton, 2 vols., Edinburg, 1795; Residence in France from Beginning of August to the Middle of December, 1792, John More, 2 vols., London, 1793; Mooney’s History of Ireland, 2 vols.; Life of Father Mathew, Sr. M. F. Clare; Life and Character of Michael C. Kerr; The Violin, Geo. Dubourg; The Aldine Art Journal, 1873; Hand-Book of History, Gregory; One of God’s Heroines, Kathleen O’ Meara; Stray Leaves from a Passing Life; Assunta Howard, and Other Stories; The Four Seasons, Rev. J. W. Vahey; Hand-Book for the Children of Mary, Rev. J. P. O’Connell; The Trowel and the Cross, Bolanden; Letters of a Young Irish Woman to Her Sister; Six Sunny Months, M. A. T.; The Straw Cutter’s Daughter, Raoul de Navery; The Two Victories; Complete set of the Ave Maria,, 13 vols.; Catholic Record, Vols. XIII and XIV; Atlantic Monthly, 1872-76, 8 vols.; Odd Numbers of Alagazines, 15 vols.; Poets of America, Mali; Talent in Tatters, Hope Wrathe; Alba’s Dream, and Other Stories; Sir Thomas More, An Historical Romance, Translated from the French of the Princess de Craon, by Mrs. M. C. Monroe; Chailoner’s Memoirs of Missionary Priests, 2 vols., Derby, 1843; The Sister of Charity, Anna H. Dorsey; Pius IX and the Temporal Rights of the Holy See, M. J. Rhodes, Esq.; Manual of the Christian Soldier; Keeper of the Lazaretto, Souvestre; Dancing at Home and Abroad, C. H. Cleveland, Jr.; Lives and Times of Illustrious and Representative Irishmen, Thos. Clarke Luby, three parts; McGee's Illustrated Weekly, Vol. III. The Association returns thanks to Mr. F. Scanlan for “ Connecticut Catholic Year Book,” an Epitome of the History of the Church in the Diocese of Hartford; to Master James Lemarie, of New Orleans, for a copy of Jewel’s Crescent City Illustrated; to J. Stewart for Indian Fairy Tales; to W. Jones, of Columbus, O., for one of Habberton’s Works; and to E. W. Robinson, of Florida, for 3 volumes of Miscellaneous Writings.
—The first game for championship of the Junior Department was won by the Mutuals. The following is the score:
MUTULAS.
0. B.
EXCELSIORS.
O. R.
Boll of Honor.
_ [The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
W. H. Arnold, T. Barrett, J. E. Cooney, W. L. Dechant, E. J. Dempsey, P. J. Dougherty, E. C. Davenport, A J. Dorion, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, J. English, J. Fitzgerald, A Ginz, J. Garrett, A J. Hertzog, J. J. Houck, F. Hellman, M. Hogan, J. 8. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, A.W. Johnson, F. Keller, B. Kratzer, J. J. Kotz, J. R. Lambin, A. A. Lent, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, E. Maley, C. F. Mueller, H. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, J. McEniry, M. J. McCue, P. F. McCullough, O. McKone, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, E. W. Robinson, J. Rogers, Jno. Rothert, J. Rice, J. Rabbitt, J. J. Shugrue, J. 8. Smith, J. 8. Sheridan, P. Vogel, F. Williams, F. J. Walter, E. Ward.	‘
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, J. G. Baker, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, A J. Buerger, J. M. Byrne, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Bushey, H. Canoil, T. F. Clarke, F. E. Carroll, C. E. Cavanagh, G. H. Cochrane, D. 8. Coddington, J. 8. Cassard, G. H. Donnelly, R. French, H. A Gramling, L. H. Garceau, J. L. Healey, A H. Hatt, J. L. Halle, G. L. Ittenbach, R. E. Keenan, F. W. Lang, J. A Lumley, J. D. McNellis, W. J. McCarthy, J. T. Matthews, C. A. McKinnon, T. E. Nelson, H. J. Newmark, P. P. Nelson, G. Orr, J. O’Donnell, F. Pleins, R. Pleins, E. J. Pennington, S. 8. Perley, K. W. Reynolds, W. Rietz, A. Rietz, K. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. Schoby, A W. Sievers, F. J. Singler, E. 8. Walter, W. A. Widdicombe, F. E. Weisert, F. W. Cavanaugh, George Crawford (omitted last week through mistake). .	•
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. McDevitt, A. Coghlin, G. Rhodius, G. Lambin, N. Nelson, W. Coolbaugh, J. Inderrieden, J. Seeger, O. Farrelly, W.Rhein-hardt, Jas. Courtney, Jos. Courtney, R. Costello, A. Hartrath, C. Crowe, C. McGrath, C. Garrick, J. Boose, Jos. Inderrieden, E. Esmer, C. Bushey, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, H. Kitz, C. Long, C. Welty, J. Devine, M. Devine, F. Farrelly, T. BarrettuH. Snee, Jos. Chavas, P. Fitzgerald.
Walsh, s. s............
Ryan, p................
Keenan, 3b.............
Burger, e..............
Hagan, 1. f...........
Ittenbach, r. f........
Matthews, lb...........
Baker, c. f............
Clarke, 2 b............
Total................
Walker, 1. f...........
McNellis, e. f.........
Bannon, s. s...........
Burns, 3 b.............
Widdicombe, 2 b........
Doyle, lb...............
Sugg, c................
Rietz, r. f.............
Cox, p..................
Total................
Umpire—J. Rutledge.
Scorers—K. Scanlan and J. Ittenbach.
Time of game—3 hours.
—The third game of baseball for the championship was played on the 22d. The nines did not play as well as usual, many errors being made on both sides. In the first part of the game the Universities walked right ahead, but at the eighth inning the Enterprise made a desperate effort to get first and tallied seven runs, which made the game very exciting until the end. The following is the score:
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
■ COMMERCIAL COURSE.
L. Garceau, H. Newmark, J. Matthews, M. H. Bannon, K. L. Scanlan, A. Sievers, J. Healy, J. Hoffman, J. Houck, E. W. Robinson, F. Hellman, A. J. Hettinger, P. Dougherty, E. Maley, H. Murphy, M. Hogan, F. Keller, J. Krost, F. Hoffman, J. Baker.
The triple competitions having already begun in the Classes the List of Excellence will in future not be published.

UNIVERSITIES.
ENTERPRISE.
P.O. B.H. R. O.
Deehan, 3 b.... Schmidt, lb... Fitzgerald, c. f.. Hertzog, l.f..'.. Lambin, 2 b.... Murphy, p....... Maley, r. f..... Hale, c......... McMahon, s. s..
Total.........
Hagan, lb..... Nevins, 1. f..
Cooney, 3 b... Dechant, c. f... Ohlman, c..... Nodler, r. f..... McKinnon, s. s.. Williams, 2 b... Hamilton, p....
Total.......
5 0
3
2
9 0
4
4 0
27
1 0
2 1
1 1
0 0
1
Umpire—J. Shugrue.
Scorers—Messrs. McKone and Davenport.
—Very Bev. Father General is bringing some valuable books of musical literature for the St. Cecilia Society.
—The literary societies had a general reunion this week. We received no report of the proceedings, but without doubt they must have been interesting.
—Instead of the usual instruction at the second Mass on Sunday morning, Rev. R. Shortis read the Encyclical Letter of our Holy Father Leo XIII to the College of Cardinals.
—The reading in the refectory of the pupils is appropriate to the season and month of May. The “Life of the Blessed Virgin,” by Orsini, and “ Religion in Society, or the Solution of Great Problems,” from the French, by Abbe Martial.
—During the 6.30 o’clock Mass, at which all the Catholic pupils attend, the first hymn is either of the Paschal time or Saint of the day; one to the Blessed Virgin, and after the Consecration one to the Blessed Sacrament. The accompaniments are played on the organ, alternately, by the pupils—this week Miss Thecla Pleins and Miss Catharine Riordan.
520
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Benediction of the Blessed- Sacrament is given every Wednesday evening during the month of May; other evenings, preceded by a hymn to the Blessed Virgin, an instruction is given by some of Fathers from Notre Dame— this week Rev. Father Kelly, and our Chaplain, Father Shortis—followed by the Act of Consecration made by one of the Children of Mary, and the devotions close with another hymn.
—At the Academical reunion on Sunday evening “ The Dream of Ponce de Leon,” by H. Butterworth, was well rendered by Miss Mary Brown. Miss Winston read “ Copper’s John Gilpins’s Ride” with such sprightly effect as to cause much amusement; Miss Hope Russell, “La Maison des Vacances,” par Louis Mussat, in a clear voice; and Miss Elizabeth Walsh a German selection, by L. Egler —“Fruchling und Herbst”—admirably.
—The visitors during the past week were: Rev. Vincent Barzynski, of St. Stanislaus’ Church, Chicago; Rev. Valentine Czyzewski, C. S. C., pastor of the Polish Church, South Bend; Mr. and Mrs. Herbert H. Weakley, Hudson, Wisconsin; Mother Ignatius and Sister Holy Angels, Order of St. Francis, Belle Prairie, Minnesota; Prof. King, Chicago; Mr.Foote, Burlingtou, Iowa; Mrs. Dryer; Miss Annie Ortmayer, Chicago; Mr. Blair, Ypsilanti, Mich.; Mrs. L. and E. Baker, Buchanan; Mr. Mills, Ypsilanti; Mrs. T. C. Smith, Indianapolis; Mr. and Mrs. W. Macauley, Winnpieg, Manitoba; Miss Imogene, Chesterton, Indiana; Mrs. Geyer, Mishawaka; Doctor H. Perley, IT. S. A.; Doctor and Mrs. Boorkrees; Mrs. Hynes, of South Bend; Mrs. Harris, Newcastle, Ind.
—On Tuesday evening declamations from Shakspeare were given by Prof. King of Chicago. He selected the 3d scene from Othello, “The Moor of Venice.” The rendition was excellent. . We noticed with pleasure the sparse use of gestures, yet enough to realize the personification without distracting attention from the scene so graphically displayed. Next was the famous “ Soliloquy ol Hamlet, Prince of Denmark.” After giving a short sketch of the circumstances of the play, a slight pause ensued—so slight indeed that it no doubt appeared to some as a recall of the intended subject—but in reality it was an entire transformation of Prof. King to Hamlet alone with his conscience! No affectation of royalty was there. Leaning a little forward, one knee slightly bent, foot partially turned inward, and arms hanging loosely down, expressed vividly the help-lesness of human wisdom; the face gradually losing its outward expression, until you felt the being before your eyes was but a living thought. The whole was wonderful in its simplicity—sublime! When the sudden kindling of the whole frame, as if at that instant it received the impress of the Divine likeness and the wondrous, half choked words “ To be,” issued from his inmost soul.
Holl of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
[The editor of the Scholastic is not responsible for the spelling, etc., of the names in these lists. As there is no rule for the spelling of- proper names, these are printed as given by the young ladies themselves.]
Graduating Class—Misses Bay Reynolds, Elizabeth O’Neill, Pauline Gaynor, Mary Cooney, Minerva Spier, Mary O’Connor, Amelia Harris, Anastasia Henneberry.
1st Seniob Class—Misses Cecilia Boyce, Hope Russell, Bridget Wilson, Sarah Moran, Mary Ewing, Emma Lange, Ida Fisk.
2d Senior Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Way, Sallie Hambleton, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Eleanore Keenan, Charline Davis, Blanche Thomson, Elizabeth Keena, Ellen King, Zoe Papin, Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Kirchner, Anna Maloney, Catharine Barrett, Mary Birch.
3d Senior Class—Misses Caroline Ortmayer, Frances King-field, Mary Brown, Mary Winston, Genevieve Winston, Thecla Pleins, Mary Sullivan, Ellen Galen, Elizabeth Kirchner, Delia and Annie Cavenor, Catharine Hackett, Emma Shaw, Alice Morgan, Agnes Brown, Lola Otto, Harriet Buck, Marie Plat-tenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Alice Farrell, Adella Gordon, Catharine Lloyd, Martha Wagoner, Florence Cregier, Elizabeth Walsh, Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses Mary Cleary, Anna McGrath, Adelaide Geiser, Margaret Hayes, Henrietta Hersey, Lucie Chilton, Mary Usselman, Ellen Mulligan, Sophia Rheinboldt, Blanche Parrott, Minerva Loeber.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Mary Mullen, Ellen Kelly, Julia Kingsbury, Ollie Williams, Imogene Richardson, Julia Barnes, Ellena Thomas, Mary White, Alice Barnes, Mary Lambin.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Linda Fox, Mary Hake, Laura French, Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Ellen Hackett, Frances Sunderland, Louise Wood, Caroline Gall, Mary Lyons, Elizabeth Miller.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Julia Butts, Genevieve Sunderland, Ellen Lloyd.
2d Jr. Class—Misses Amelia Morris, Lucile McCrellis, Eva Swygart, Manuelita Chavas, Bridget and Teresa Haney, Lillie Swygart. '
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Misses Mary Cooney, Ellen King.
•2d Latin Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Maria Platten-burg, Mary Luce.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Mary McGrath, Eleanore Keenan, Clara Silverthorn, Hope Russell, Bridget Wilson, Amelia Harris.
2d Div.—Misses Julia Burgert, Anna McGrath, Bay Reynolds, Mary O’Conner, Mary Cooney.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Sarah Moran, Mary Ewing.
3d Class—Misses Zo6 Papin, Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary Brown, Mary Winston, Martha Wagoner, Mary Birch, Matilda Whiteside, Angela Ewing, Ellen Mulligan, Julia Butts.
3d Class—Misses Emma Shaw, Mary Casey, Fannie Kingfield, Mary Danaher, Lucie Chilton, Laura French, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan, Mary Cox.
4th Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Genevieve Winston, Agnes Brown, Annie Cavenor, Henrietta Hersey, Elizabeth Schwass, Lulu Wood, Elizabeth Miller.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Caroline Ortmayer.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Usselman, Sophia Rheinboldt, Elizabeth Walsh.	■
2d Class—Misses Catharine Barrett, Anastasia Henneberry, Elizabeth O’Neill, Florence Cregier, Mary Ludwig, Caroline Gall.
3d Class—Misses Sallie Hambleton, Mary Way, Cecilia Boyce, Mary Lambin, Ellen King.
2d Div.—Misses Charlotte Van Namee, Minerva Loeber, Alice Farrell, Blanche Parrott, Imogene Richardson.	.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Thecla Pleins, Bridget Wilson.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Minerva Spier, Amelia Harris, Elizabeth O’Neill, Ellen Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Cavenor, Adella Gordon, Leota Buck, Fanny Kingfield, Mary Usselman, Anastasia Henneberry.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Matilda Whiteside.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Farrell, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Emma Lange, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Ellen McGrath, Caroline Ortmayer.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Alice Morgan, Anna Reising, Ellen King, Annie Maloney, Genevieve Cooney, Pau. line Gaynor.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Winston, Imogene Richardson, Mary Way, Mary Mullen, Caroline Gall.
5th Class—Misses Mary White, Florence Cregier, Genevieve Winston, Zod Papin, Catharine Riordan, Mary Danaher, Anna Woodin, Annie Cavenor, Catharine Barrett, Emma Shaw, Martha Wagoner.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Cleary, Henrietta Hersey, Louise Wood, Ellen Hackett, Blanche Thomson, Laura French, Lola Otto, Marie Plattenburg, Angela Ewing, Cecilia Boyce, Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Miller.
6th Class—Misses Ida Fisk, Minerva Loeber, Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Ewing, Linda Fox, Rebecca Nettelcr, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Brown, Ellena Thomas, Mary Casey, Mary Lambin, Marcia Peak, Mary Mulligan.	•
2d Div.—Misses Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Lucie Chilton, Blanche Parrott, Ellen Kelly, Mary Wright.
7th Class—Misses Sallie Hambleton, Julia Kingsbury, Alice Barnes, Agnes McKinnis, Mary Cox.
8th Class—Misses Mary McFadden, Lucile McCrellis.
9th Class—Misses Alice King, Eva Swygart, Lillie Swygart.
Harp—Misses Delia Cavenor, Ellen Galen.
Organ—Miss Blanche Thomson.
Harmony—Misses Bridget Wilsdn, Thecla Pleins, Elizabeth Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Clara Silverthorn.
The Theoretical Class visited this week did credit to their teacher and to themselves. No better praise can be given.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Drv.—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Delia Cavenor.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Annie Reising, Mary Usselman. '	■
	
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	521
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Lola Otto, Catharine Riordan.
2dDiv.—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Sophia Rheinboldt, Imogene Richardson, Clara Silverthorn.
4th Class—Misses Julia Burgert, Mary Winston, Anna Cav-enor, Matilda Whiteside, Ellen Galen, Anna Woodin, Alice Farrell, Mary Casey.
5th Class—Misses Mary McGrath, Mary Mulligan, Annie McGrath, Mary Hake, Marcia Peak, Mary Ewing, Henrietta Hersey, Mary White, Eleanore Keenan, Elizabeth Schwass.
General Class—Misses Ellen King, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French, Elizabeth Miller, Linda Fox, Julia Butts.
ART DEPARTMENT.	-
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
2d Class—Miss Delia Cavenor.	.
3d Class—Misses Marie Plattenburg, Julia Burgert, Leota Buck, Adelaide Kirchner, Sallie Hambleton, Alice Farrell.
4th Class—Misses Mary Way, Lola Otto, Caroline Ortmayer, Anna Reising, Hope Russell, Lucie Chilton, Florence Cregier, Laura French, Julia Butts, Ellena Thomas, Minerva Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Catharine Riordan, Ellen Mulligan. .
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Emma Lange, Bay Reynolds.
3d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Chatline Davis, Delia Cavenor, Mary O’Connor.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS. '
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ellen Hackett, Louise Wood, Frances Kingfield, Angela Ewing, Agnes McKinnis, Mary Lambin, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Hake, Laura French, Julia Butts, Linda Fox, Elizabeth Miller.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Charline Davis, Pauline Gaynor, Mary O’Connor, Minerva Spier.
4th Class—Miss Matilda Whiteside.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL NEEDLE-WORK.
1st Class—Misses Caroline Ortmayer, Mary Winston, Bridget Wilson, Genevieve Winston, Mary Luce, Agnes Brown, Mary Usselman, Genevieve Cooney, Anastasia Henneberry, Lola Otto, Ellen McGrath, Mary O’Connor.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Farrell, Adella Gordon, Florence Cregier, Blanche Parrott, Sophia Rheinboldt, Ollie Williams, Imogene Richardson, Eleanore Keenan, Anna Reising, Mary Sullivan, Annie McGrath, Angela Ewing.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRESS MAKING AND PLAIN SEWING.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth-Keena, Mary Ewing, Mary Usselman.	*
3d Class—Misses Ellen Kelly, Louise Neu, Mary McGrath, Ollie Williams.
GENERAL SEWING CLASS.
1st Class—Misses Cecilia Boyce, Mary Usselman, Minerva Spier, Hope Russell, Mary and Genevieve Winston, Thecla Pleins, Mary O’Connor, Sophia Rheinboldt.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Alice Farrell, Louise Neu, Elizabeth Walsh, Emma Shaw, Blanche Parrott, Mary Mulligan, Mary Cleary, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Sullivan.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Mary Cooney, Anastasia Henneberry, Elizabeth O’Neill, Mary O’Connor, Pauline Gaynor, Anna Reising, Bay Reynolds, Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Emma Lange, Cecilia Boyce, Bridget Wilson, Ida Fisk, Mary McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Charline Davis, Annie Woodin, Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Ellen King, Zoe Papin, Catharine Riordan, Mary Halligan, Lola Otto, Mary Brown, Martha Wagoner, Thecla Pleins, Marie Plattenburg, Catharine Hackett, Julia Burgert, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Sullivan, Alice Farrell, Adella Gordon, Alice Morgan, Mary and Genevieve Winston, Delia and Anna Cavenor, Caroline Ortmayer, Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Usselman, Margaret Hayes, Mary Cleary, Blanche Parrott, Mary Mullen, Ellen Kelly, Ollie Williams Mary Ludwig, 100 par excellence. Misses Amelia Harris, Minerva Spier, Mary Casey, Mary Birch, Elizabeth Keena, Catharine Barrett, Anna Maloney, Emma Shaw, Harriet Buck, Agnes Brown, Elizabeth Walsh, Ellen Galen, Louise Neu, Minerva Loeber, Henrietta Hersey, Florence Cregier, Ella Wright, Ellena Thomas, Julia Barnes, Imogene Richardson, Alice Barnes, Matilda Whiteside.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Frances Kingfield, Annie McGrath, Adelaide Geiser, Ellen Mulligan, Julia Kingsbury, Ellen Hackett, Linda Fox, Mary McFadden, Mary Hake, Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Amelia Morris, Manuelita Chavas, Bridget Haney, Teresa Haney, Margaret Ivers, Alice King, 100 par
excellence. Misses Mary Mulligan, Angela Ewing, Lucie Chilton, Mary'Lambin, Frances Sunderland, Laura French, Caroline Gall, Eva Swygart, Lucile McCrellis.	.
—The following is the programme of the Entertainment to be given by the pupils of the Academy on the Feast of St. Angela, the patronal festival of the Mother Superior of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, on Friday, May 31st:
Entrance March—“Jewel Overture”.........(VonWeber)
Misses Pleins and Galen.
Address—Senior Department..........Miss B. Reynolds
Chorus—“ To Earth May Winds are bringing,” (Schumann)
Vocal Class—accompanied by Miss Wilson.
Address—Rosary Society..................Miss Ewing
German Address......................Miss	A. Kirchner
Song—“ The Harp that once thro’ Tara’s Halls,”
Miss Foote.
“ Hommage fran^ais an jur de la F6te de notre M^re,” Misses McGrath, Papin, A. Ewing, J. Butts, E. Mulligan. Vocal Trio—“My Mother”..................(Campana)
Misses Cavenor, E. and A. Kirchner—accompanied by
Miss Silverthorn.
’	“ Musical Minims.”
Dream Wanderings—“ Old Folks at Home,”
'	Miss A. Geiser.
BLANCHE OF CASTILE.
An Original Drama, in Five Acts.
Dramatis Personas:
Queen Blanche, Mother of Louis IX.. .Miss Hope Russell Queen Margaret, Wife of Louis IX.... “ D. Gordon Beatrice, wife of Charles, Brother to Louis “ M. Birch Joanna, wife of Alphonsus “	“ “ M. O’Connor
Yolande, wife of Robert	“	“ “ A. Morgan
Isabelle. Sister to King Louis...... “ Henneberry Fleda, Peasant of Flanders.......... “ A. Cavenor
Fausta, her little daughter......... “ F. Cregier
Constantia, Countess of Brittany.... “ M. Winston Isabel, Countess La Marche.......... “	L. Chilton
Ermelda, a Court Lady............... “ G. Winston
Evangelista, a Court Lady		cc	Burgert
Sister Clare	)	(	cc	C. Davis
Sister Agnes	>■ Dominican Nuns -(	Ct	I. Fisk
Sister Margaret )	(	cc	A. Brown
BeidceOrCereSS) } Tartar Princesses ]	cc cc	M. Way McGrath
Ferilla, a Tartar girl				cc	E. Hackett
Prologue		cc	M. Birch
Act 1st, Scene 1st.
Tableau—“The Regency.”
Scenes 2d and 3d.
“ Bird Song ”............................(Taubert)
Miss West—accompanied by Miss Foote.
Scene 4th.
“Silver Spring”............................(Mason)
Miss Silverthorn.
Act 2d, Scenes 1st and 2d. “ Spinning Song ”..........................(Liszt)
Miss T. Pleins. Tableau—“ Our Lady of Sorrows.”
Scene 3d. “Swiss Song”..............................(Eckert)
Miss E. Kirchner—accompanied by Miss Wilson. Act 3d, Scene 1st.
Waltz...................................(Rubenstein)
Miss Wilson. Act 4th, Scene 1st. “On Rosy Wings of Morning”..............(Il Trovatore)
Miss Cavenor—accompanied by Miss Geiser.
Act 5th, Scene 1st.	•
Solo and Chorus—“ Marv’lous Work—Creation!. .(Haydn) Solo—Miss Foote. Chorus—Private Vocal Class—accompanied by Miss Pleins.
Grande Gallop de Concert................(Ketterer)
Misses Spier and Keenan.
—A great many people make a mistake when they cut a dog’s tail, in throwing away the wrong end.
622
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
BRONV1N «fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER dt MITCHELE [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
milOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
I Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJV1VENG	HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], At-
torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
TOHN E. McIIU GH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office eJ 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
Orville t. chamberlain (of ’6i), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «fc MTLT, art> (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
W LLTA M J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
J A MEW A_. O’RF.TT .T .V-nf ’69—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN T>. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 28 “	11 10 “	6 20 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles ...	10 45 “	12 15 “	8 14 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.w	1 40 p.m	10 00 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson....	3 45 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit .. ..	6 45 “	ft 30 “		3 35 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m		9 50 p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson....	10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.n	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	4 00 a.m	2 53 “	2 25 a m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	4 24 “	12 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	7 50 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago....	6 55	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 *•	6 45 “
Wiles and SoxxtH Bend T>ivision
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. 630pm. “ N. Dame— 8 F2 • 6 38 •• Ar. Niles—	9 25 “ 715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henky C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, pubashed weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A. VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.	-
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpjtdLE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-bind-, er, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects oi Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the speci es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, ardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel. -
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments		$ 50	$1	$1 50	$ 1	$ 2	$~
Students’ size, larger		1 50	3	6 1	5	10	25
Amateur’s size,2U in. x 1*4...				10	25	50
High School or Acad. size,2^x3*4 in. shelf specimens 1				25	50	1 00
College size, 3^x6 in., shelf specimens					 1	500	100	3 CO
Qp/ CALLING CARDS—no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
'	Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D„
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association /or the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	623
Lessons in Music.
PROF. EMIL ZOTT, having now taken up his residence in South Bend, is prepared to receive pupils or give private lessons in Music, Vocal or Instrumental, at moderate charges, in South Bend, Niles, Mishawaka and the ser-rounding neighborhood. Persons wishing to engage his services may apply at his residence or address him through P. 0. Box 1027, South Bend.
To those who desire the services of a competent Music Teacher the following testimonial from Rev. M. Oakley, S. J., Pastor of the Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, will be a sufficient guarantee:
Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, Feb. 20,1878.
It gives me pleasure to state that Prof. Emil Zott, bearer of present, gave perfect satisfaction as an organist and as a gentleman to his employers, and to me in particular, during the five or six years that he was Organist at the Holy Family Church in this city.
From my own experience and that of others, I know him to be very competent to teach the Piano, and especially Vocal Music. He is an excellent director of music and trainer of a choir.
- Ever since he ceased his connection with the Holy Family choir he has always enjoyed the reputation of a good moral man and a perfect gentleman.
M. Oakley, S. J.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST, LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo‘, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. . Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, Il., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.......•.....................7	30 am 9 00 pm
Peoria Day Express......................3 40 pm	9 00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am	9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm	9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm	12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation....................9 20 am	5 00	pm
J.C.McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton; Gen. Pass. Agt.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Denartments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the pl ?n of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrum o ntal and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are ' embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.	.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
•	St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame P. On Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with Its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	•
'	FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALA.CE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madi- . -son Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvih Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
JAMES BONNEY
THIE FHOTOG-RAFHEB, Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., -SOUTH BEJSTJD, ITTZDI-A.TT-A-.
'I
620	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	■
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BPS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
'	P. SHICKEY.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged hy the travelling public to be the
Great Overland. Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m Peru accommodation  .............   5	00 p.m. 9 45 a.m
Night Express......................10 00 p.m.	6 30 a.m
A M. SMITH,	A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 P.M. 12.53 AM. 3.10 “ 4.45 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.30 “ '4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “ 5.35 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 AM. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,................	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.30 p.m. 3.45 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 246 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 12.25 a.m.		
Tnma,.... .............				
Ft.Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago	Arrive			2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “		
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8. Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,			9.10 P.M. 2.46 AM. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 1L45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 9.00 “ 11.35 “ L30 a.m. 2.48 “ 4.25 “	• •*••• •
Lima,	 VoreRt)									
Crestline,	Arrive					
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsbuigh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.30 a.m. 5.00 “ 7.10 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 “	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 1L20 “ 2.00 PAT. 3.30 «
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change.- Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	___ I
F. E. MYEES, G. P. & T. A.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26,1877.
Northward Trains.		No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.		No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.	
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	.... Ar. Peru			4.35 p. m 7.10 “ 8.10 “		12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ , 10.47 “	
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City			8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ - 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.			11.10 A. M.	J, 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “	
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W., Chi. & Detroit Ex.		No. 4.' Chicago and Mich. City Ex.			No.6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.	$
Lv. Indianapolis.... “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		‘ 5.30 P. M. 2.55 “ 1.50 “		4.10 A. M. 1.50	“ 12.38 “			9.10 A. M.	I? 6.33	“ 5.37 “	/“ /j
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. m:. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. M.		12.33 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 8.50 “ 8.05 “			
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott, .
G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis. Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	■
GOING EAST.
8 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 OS a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; ' Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am. -
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am: Cleveland, 7 05am; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
4= 50 and 4 pm, Way Freight. GOING WEST.
2 4=3 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.	'
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4= 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend. J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland. J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago. CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, usriDiJLnsr^.- '
Founded 1842>	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to	'
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
• Notre Dame, Ind.