I	-
Notre Dame Scholastic.
I>isce quasi semper vic trims; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 5, 1878.	Number 5.
Introduction to an Album.
B¥ DOCTOR NEWMAN.
I am a harp of many chords, and each Strung hy a separate hand most musical My notes, discoursing with the mental sense, Not the outward ear. Try them, they will reply With wisdom, fancy, graceful gaiety, Or ready wit, or happy sentiment.
Come, add a string to my assorts of sounds;
Widen the compass of my harmony;
And join thyself in fellowship of name
With those, whose courteous labor and fair gifts Have given me voice, and made me what I am.
Madame de Sevigne.
Two eminently original writers adorn the reign of Louis XIV: La Fontaine in fable, and Madame de Sevigne in epistolary writing. To these we might also add Molidre; hut the personality of Moliere is less characteristic. All ' these three are inimitable, and especially Madame de Sevigne.
Marie deRabutin-Chantal, Marquise de Sevigne, belonged to that family which counted among its members the Blessed Chantal. She was born February 5th, 1627, as is generally believed, at Burgogne in the old chateau of Bourbilly. She was but a year and-a half old when she lost her father, who, it was said, was slain by Cromwell at the time when the English came to the assistance of Rochelle and the Protestants of France. M. de Chantal opposed in vain’the descent of the English on the Isle of Re. The artillery of the enemy’s fleet destroyed the little band of volunteers that he commanded. A short time afterwards Mademoiselle de Rabutin lost her mother; for, from the year 1636, the orphan had as tutor her maternal grandfather, M. de Cou langes. The orphan passed her first years in the pretty little village of Sucy, situated in the environs of Paris.
M. de Coulanges soon followed his daughter to the tomb, and from that time the uncle of Marie Rabutin, Christopher de Coulanges, the Abbe of Livry, took the place of a father to her. This was happy for Marie. Her uncle was the best and most faithful of tutors. Of this there can be no doubt, when, as the sequel shows, she placed herself in her widowhood again under the protection of the Abbe of Livry—her good uncle, as she called him,—and when, fifty years afterwards, she mourned his death with the most filial expressions of grief. The learned Menage and Chaplain were the professors charged to open to her the sources of literature, and initiate her into the beauties of the sacred vale. The portraits that have
come to us of this remarkable woman represent her with frank, open countenance, beautiful blonde hair, and a look • majestic in its sweetness.
Maria de Rabutin had need of all the resources found in the cultivation of letters to enable her to support the trials experienced in her union with the Marquis de SevignS. She soon saw herself brought to weep over the tomb of her husband, who had been killed in a duel.
From that time Madame de Sevigne marked out for herself a plan of life from which she never deviated. All her happiness and glory are owing to her firmness and devotedness. The excellent principles of religion formed the basis of her conduct. In all the critical events of her life she had recourse to them, and drew from them those powerful consolations which the afflicted can ever find therein.
But whilst trusting to God the success of her undertakings, she did not neglect any of those means which might accomplish that end. Aided by the counsels of the Abbe de Coulanges, she had the greatest order in the administration of her goods, employing that zeal and scrupulous attention which assure the ease and even the prosperity of a house. She occupied herself especially with the education of her son and daughter. To this she gave her whole attention, sacrificing pleasure to duty, or, rather, finding her pleasure in the accomplishment- of this appointed task. Her wise economy never had any influence on the expenses which her rank in society and the future of her children demanded. Her taste was simple and honorable. She represented her state with dignity, and condemned only that negligence and extravagance which sooner or later bring ruin and often dishonor to a family. Her frankness in everything, her good sense, gave her the taste for economy, the counsels of her uncle gave her the understanding of it. We are astonished to see this woman, whose mind was naturally borne to those spheres where grace, letters and the fine arts reign, adapt herself so easily to the minute details of the interior, and leave the study of poetry and prose for the cold calculations of right and possession. “ She knew well how to buy and sell lands, hire and oversee workmen,” say the several biographers who have seriously occupied themselves in recounting these facts of the life of Madame de Sevigne.
During the first years that followed her widowhood she seems to have been entirely absorbed in the administration of her affairs and the education of her children. In 1654 we find her in the most brilliant society in Paris, where she captivated all by her grace and her mind. She was a constant member of the circles of Madame de Mbntausier. It is to this period that must be assigned all the grand and glorious relations which Madame de Sevigne contracted in the world of letters.
Still in the midst of all her occupations she did not
70
THE NOTRE DAME' SCHOLASTIC.
lose sight of the future of her children. On the 29th of use her own words, “ the flower of her head, of her eyes, January, 1669, she gave the hand of her daughter to the of her pen.” “ To read your letters,” she says elsewhere, and to write to you is the business of my life. Every-
Count de Grignon, whose charaeter and tastes she has depicted in her letters. A short time afterwards she procured thing must give way to this. And to love you as I love the appointment of her son to a military charge. “ This 1 you, makes me find all other loves frivolous.” (June 26th, happy mother believed,” says Perrin, “ that in bringing ! 1675.) At all events, since that time the life of Madame
about the marriage of her daughter with a man of the court, she could pass her life with her. But some time after, M. de Grignan, who was Lieutenant-General of Provence, received orders to go thither, and was almost always after the commander, in the absence of the Duke de Vendome, who was Governor. Then there commenced for Madame de Sevigne a second widowhood, more painful perhaps than the first. I speak of the frequent absence of her daughter, to which we owe the letters of the mother.” Thus this separation, these absences—wherein the mother counted the miserable days—have become the happy moments of posterity; for to her pain, to her happiness at these times, may be attributed those letters which have become the delight of after-ages.
It was not only maternal love which suffered in Madame de Sevigne. One need but look over her letters to see how truly devoted she was to friends. The misfortunes of Cardinal de Retz, a relative of her husband, plunged her into the deepest affliction. But the trial of Fouquet, the protector of La Fontaine, was one of those decisive events which serve to make us appreciate the fidelity of her friendship, which displayed itself especially in days of adversity. She transmitted all the details of the trial to the Marquis de Poungson, then an exile on his estate. In doing so she was not free from apprehensions. She feared, and with reason, that her journal would be intercepted. Nevertheless this fear did not prevent her from openly showing her attachment for their common friend, and her indignation against his persecutors. Twelve letters treat of the disgrace and the trial of the superintendent. These twelve letters, so many monuments of fidelity towards a friend in misfortune, rendered Madame de Sdvignd worthy to be placed by the side of Pelisson and La Fontaine.
The Abbd de Vaucel thinks that there is a great difference between the letters written before the trial of Fouquet and those written some years afterwards. The remark is true. The style is no longer the same. Its coloring, lightness and brilliancy have disappeared. It is no longer the same pen which writes, the same brush which'paints. The reason can be easily conceived. The imagination of Madame de Sdvignd had taken the alarm. She fears, she hesitates; she is no longer herself. And that is precisely what gives new value to these twelve letters. Nevertheless it must not be imagined that she reached at the first bound this superiority in epistolary art, which her imitators must ever despair of attaining. Although her style, naturally fresh and facile, nowhere betrays the evidences of labor, it is yet evident that practice made her acquire an ever-increasing suppleness. What enchanting grace marks every page of her letters! How charmingly all her ideas are expressed! Never did the definition of the celebrated Buffon—the style is the man—find a juster or more striking application. You find the writer in eveiy line of her letters. Her heart, her wit, is everywhere to be seen. In the most frivolous narratives, as well as in the sagest reflections, you will find her goodness of heart and her maternal solicitude. To converse with her daughter is her greatest happiness; it is her whole life. Other matters are of no importance to her. For her daughter alone she keeps, to
de S6vign6 may be summed up in her letters. A few short
trips; the death of some of her friends; the campaigns, dangers, hopes and marriage of her son; the checkered career of her daughter, were the only events of her life. Her last trip to Provence was undertaken May the 10th, 1694. The following year she witnessed all the rural magnificence which attended the marriage of the Marquis de • Grignan, her grandson. The state of sickness into which he soon fell gave her the liveliest anxiety. She was so afflicted by it as to fall sick herself. Ten days afterwards she was no more. She was nearly seventy years of age. She was buried in the college church of Grignan. It has been sai^, but without truth, that during the French Revolution, when nothing was respected, not even the sacredness of the grave, the tomb of Madame de S6vign6 was violated. We may still read the inscription on the tombstone, under which repose the remains of this remarkable writer; of this mother, whose maternal love and wit had won for her an.immortal glory.
I
The Enchanted Hostelry; or. The Seven TraveHers.
ACT I.
Scene III.
On the road through the Woods.
(Bill the Blacksmith, Tom the Drover, Jack the Butcher, and Jim the Forester.)
Bill. So, comrades, we be all going the same way! The more the merrier, say I—yes; and perhaps the safer too! What think ye of the haunted inn ? Before I started my old grandmother says to me: “ William, my son,” says she, “beware of the haunted inn. There’s a many travelled lately by the road thou art going that have never been seen alive since the evil day they started.”
Jack. And indeed it’s something more than an old wife’s tale, I’m a thinking. Who knows, boys, what became of Harry Page, that was to return by this road last week?
Tom. Murdered in the woods by robbers, mayhap!
Jack. No, no; the poor lad never carried anything worth robbing,—that was well known. These robbers that despoil the rich are sometimes bounteous even to the poor; and, in anv case, they would not waste their time with the like of Harry Page. But I’ll tell ye the most suspicious mark of all. Can any of ye lads tell us where the landlord of that inn gets his beefsteaks and his joints? Where he gets the veal and mutton for his hot pies ? Who supplies all the variety of meats that garnish his fine table?
Tom. Not I, i’ faith!
Jim. Why, Jack, friend, thou’rt in the trade. Who should know as well as thou ?
Jack. I should know—yes; I grant ye, I should know indeed! But I don’t.
Bill. Mayhap he has his own slaughterhouse at the inn.
Jack. His slaughterhouse he has indeed—but not for cattle and sheep. Tom, thou’rt a drover; has’t ever driven beasts for slaughter to that inn, or known a drover other than thyself to do so ?
Tom. No, truly! But, man, what wouldst thou have us think ?
Jack. Lads, know ye not that there is sweeter meat than honest butcher ever sold?
Jim. Why verily I have eaten some butcher’s'meat that was not over sweet. {They aU laugh but Jack.)
Jack. Jesting aside, friends. There is a kind of meat that if one has eaten, all other straightway loses relish.
A
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
71
Bill. Tut, tut, man! Thy mind has been unsettled by these strange tales. No such meat as thou speakest of is ever eaten in this Christian land.
Jack. Thou shouldst know, friend, that a Christian that hath sold himself to the Evil One is worse than an infidel.
Bill. Tush! what matters it? There are four jolly fellows of us here, and broad daylight. We can pass the inn without danger. I, for one, am afraid of nothing in the day time. These old tales of enchanters and cannibals may be well enough to beguile a long winter’s evening, and many a time have I sat and listened till my flesh would creep with horror. But when the sun rose the next morning it was all past and gone like a dream. As for robbers, I fear them not. I have nothing about me worth their robbing, and if they should attack me, a blacksmith’s muscle —feel that muscle, boys—can make a dangerous weapon even of an old umbrella.
Tom. Yes; a good stout umbrella is a trusty friend. A gouge from the nozzle of such a one as mine would knock the daylight, to say the least, out of any inconvenient travelling acquaintance. But a drover, entrusted with the care of stock, soon learns to carry arms; and even now that I am not engaged in my usual business, I am preparer to stand my ground. {Shows pistol.)
Jul Why, then, what need we fear ? A little cold lead will settle any cannibal that we may meet, my hearties. We have arms and ammunition along, and staunch hearts that know how to use them.
Jack. True; but let us not be rash. There are too many stories afloat about the inn for us to treat them altogether as idle follies. Let us not linger in the neighborhood of the enchanted hostelry, still less enter within it.
Bill. Who talks of lingering? Not I. Let us all push on, and keep together. No harm will happen to us. (Exeunt.)
Scene IV.
On the Road near the Inn.
(Peter meeting Joe the Gardener and Teddy the Tinker.)
Teddy. {Sings.)
When I lived single, oh then, oh then,	'
When I lived single, oh then,
When I lived single, I made the money jingle, And the world went merry with me then, oh then, The world went merry with me then.
Peter. God save you, merry friends; ye appear to be journeying the same 'toad as L Let us bear one another company.
Teddy. The more the merrier, say I.
Joe. And as you, sir, appear to be a scholar, we shall be much improved by your conversation.
Teddy. And i’faith, if all we hear be true, there may be sorer need of company than the nedd of conversation. Canst thou fight, master scholar ?
Peter. And why should such rough work be necessary ?
Teddy. There is a tavern hereabouts—a hostelry.
' Peter. The same Lord Aubrey warned me of, I’ll warrant {Aside).
Teddy. Men speak no good of that same tavern. ’Tia-said more enter it than come forth again alive.
Peter. Why then enter it, friend ?
Teddy. They spread their snares wide, ’tis said.
Joe. Oh, pooh ! these be old women’s tales.
Peter. Let us pursue our way peaceably along the highway, and no one will molest us. But, friends, it seems to me that the air of this forest is heavy: • how say ye ?
Joe. I do perceive a sort of drowsiness or weariness stealing over me. (Mysticus appears at the back, slowly waning wand.)
Teddy. Let us sit down on the fallen timber and rest awhile.
{Enter Landlord.)
Landlord. Gentlemen, travellers, you are fatigued I see. I have a hostelry back there where we have all the weary traveller needs. Do me the honor to patronize my humble inn.
Teddy. (Aside to Peter.) The enchanted hostelry!
Peter. (To Teddy.) Sh! keep quiet! (Aloud.) No, sir, I thank you; we are but resting a moment. We have no time to dally at a house of entertainment. We must hasten on our way.	’
Landlord. (Aside.) Perhaps not with such speed as ye think. (Aloud.) I wish you, then, a pleasant journey, but the gathering clouds should admonish you that it is going to rain.
Joe. • Then we will put up our umbrellas. .
(Enter Bill, Tom, Jack and Jnr.)
Bill. What! more going the same road! So much the better.
Landlord. I have been endeavoring to induce these gentlemen to patronize my little inn, but they think their business engagements will oblige them to continue their journey without delay, in spite of the threatening rain. You, gentlemen, however, not being in so great a hurry, will at once see the propriety of taking shelter with me. My hostelry is but a few steps from here.
Tom. (Aside to Jack.) The enchanted hostelry! (Aloud.) If it rains, sir, we all have umbrellas, and I for one am engaged on business which admits no delay.
Teddy. (Sings.)
Will you walk into my parlor,	'
- Said the spider to the fly, ’Tis as pretty a little parlor	-
As ever you did spy.
The way into my parlor
Is up a winding stair, And I have many a pretty thing To show you when you’re there.
Will you ?—won’t you ?—will you ?—won’t you * Walk in, pretty fly ?
Will you?—won’t you ?—will you?—won’t you ? Walk in, pretty fly!
Jack. Hush, man! See how angry he looks! Don’t be so imprudent as to stir up his rage when we are so near his infernal trap. But how heavy the air is!
Landlord. Well! I am sorry, gentlemen, to leave you out in the rain. But if you will not listen to reason there is no help for it. (Exit.)
Bill. The old hypocrite! He would deceive any one with his flattering tongue. But we are well rid of him now, and there does not appear to be any fighting to do.
Peter. I suppose that, like ourselves, you gentlemen have heard strange tales of the hostelry ?
Jack. Yes; and we had made up our minds to hasten by; but the air is getting so hot and heavy that I really think I must take a rest. (Sits down.)
Jim. So must I. (They all sit, and wipe their brows.) The landlord appears to be a quiet sort of a man, yet with a most diabolical twinkle in the corner of his eye.
Teddy. It is going to rain, sure enough, just as he said.
Bill. Yes, and that will cool the air; so let us put up our umbrellas and start. (They rise and put up umbrellas.)
(Slow music.)
Peter. Hark! what is that I hear? Surely there are no birds that sing like that ?
Tom. Birds! Pooh! ’tis only the frogs! (Music faster.)
Jim. -1’ faith, that is a lively strain for frogs to hop to!
I feel a strange inclination to dance. I cannot hold my feet still.
Jack. Indeed, and so do I.
Teddy. Here are seven of us. If we had but one more we could form a quadrille. (Enter Landlord with umbrella up.)	.
Landlord. And I will be the eighth, gentlemen, if you will allow me.
(QuadriUe music. Calls as follows: Salute partners. Eight and left four. Balance four. Ladies' chain. Half promen- . ade. A la main left. Sides the same. Promenade all. In the promenade, they all dance off in couples in the direction of the inn, the Landlord being one of the first couple; and Mys-ticus appearing, waving his trident, drives them all out. The* whole dance is performed with umbrellas up. Curtain faUs.'f
ACT n.
Scene I.
A Hall in Lord Aubrey’s Castle.
(Lord Aubrey and Aloysius.)
Aub.—Boy, didst thou ever know the sting of doubt?— Of hankering undefined anxiety, Leaving the wearied mind no moment’s peace, Defying efforts for its banishment ?
This morning to the hunt I turned my thoughts, And in the excitement of the maddening chase
72	/ THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Si rove 'o f >rget myself; but I could not;
The sir-inge misgiving followed, everywhere— Mingle i i s warnings with the echoing horn— A harm- i g phantom in the midst of sport, Making it toilsome more than toil itself.
Bntli<> .v canst thou have known it? Young thou art,— A stranger tn the darker side of life!
How simuldst thou know? It is but idle folly To pour my cares into thy youthful ear.
Aloys.—My lord, if aught that I can do to serve
I n this anxiety may be of help, 1’Jl do it willingly: e’en risk my life To serve my benefactor.
Arm.—	Boy! I know it!
And I may need thy service. Canst thou bear The blows and buffets—not of mortal men But of the fiend himself?
Aloys.—	The fiend himself!
Heaven be good to us!	■
Arm.—	Fear not, my boy,
It may be nothing but my anxious heart.
Hast thou not heard the many foolish tales ' They tell about the wayside hostelry ?
Aloys.—I’ve heard them speak of cannibals and ghouls, Of midnight murders, and of impious feasts, But, as you say, I thought them foolish tales.
Arm.—Aloysius, Tis feared they are too true!
Aloys.—Then call to arms, my lord, your gallant band
Of faithful men. I hope I may be one.
Destroy the miscreants’ nest—those miscreants kill, And burn their house to ashes.
Arm.—	. That would be
A good emprise, if human foes alone Were to contend with.
Aloys.—	Doth not Holy Church
Strengthen our hands to expel those other foes More dread than human ? If, then, such be they Of whom you speak, employ some holy man ; For there are men ordained to fill the need Of exorcists.
Arm.—	There are. Myself am one;
Though far from holy, and my worldly lips Have long forgot the fiend-compelling forms, Since from a studious to a warlike life I have been called. The sacred office, too, Is not without its risks! its fearful risks! And prayer and fasting must be undergone And discipline severe must tame the flesh
• ■ To fit the soul for such a task as this.
I tremble at the thought! And yet, my friend, The scholar Peter, whom this morn thou saw’st Bidding farewell, may be within their grasp— The grasp of fiends and murderers! Duty calls, And friendship calls me also to the trial!
I will succeed or perish. With my books The night I’ll give to study and to prayer. And on the coming morn we both will go And rescue Peter, if my fears are just, If not, we’ll solve the mystery.
Aloys.—	My lord,
Deperd on all the help that I can give! Aim.—Thou shah my only human helper be,
If then hast learned the needful lesson well,— Needlul to soldiers and to saints alike,— H »w to obey!	.
’Aloys.—	My lord, I’ll do my best.
Aub.—A’ d n< ither saint nor soldier can do more. .
Bur now to rest retire! You’ll need it, boy, B'-f 're i h? labors of the coming day.
Aloys —Firewel), then, for the night, and Heaven guard _vu
Aub.—Rest well, my boy. (Exit Aloysius.) While I, in studious watch,
Wear ont me night, and seek the grace of Heaven To aid me in the morning’s great design.
(Kneds to pray. Red fire.)	•
[Scene dosed in.]
Scene H.	.
In the Hostelry.
. (Hie Landlord and Melancardios.) ' Landlord. The butcher is the fattest of them all. In
fact, he is nearly fat enough to eat now. Ha, ha! folks should learn to get along without butchers, as we do!	’ ■
Melancardios. In truth, he is almost as fat as thou art! (Aside) And thou shalt make a dainty dish for me some day.
Landlord. What are you muttering? And why do you look at me so curiously ? You make me shiver!
Melancardios. Pooh! pooh! You caught cold dancing in the rain yesterday. You’re nervous! I only said we shall have a dainty dish when we kill our travellers.
Landlord. And when is that to be? I am nearly starved. Let it be to-morrow!
Melancardios. Be patient. They must be kept several days on diet before they are fit to be eaten. The butcher, particularly, needs a thorough course of rectification, to purify his system from the fumes of tobacco and whiskey, in which he has evidently been in the habit of indulging.
Landlord. But is there no risk in keeping them so long? They may escape and confirm our bid character, and so, perhaps, ruin us before we can get away.
Melancardios. Trust me! They will not escape! They are all reduced to a state of fatuity by enchantment. They eat, drink and sleep as usual, but the mind has suspended its higher functions. They are perfectly idiotic. They scarcely ever speak, and when they do, it is like the prattling of children. They are willing prisoners. No jailer is needed for their safe keeping.
Landlord. And how do they employ their time?
Melancardios. In music. It is a cheap and harmless occupation, and fitted to promote obesity.
Landlord. A cheap amusement! I have known those who have paid dear for the learning of it; and even then their success was not. over satisfactory.
Melancardios. True; but there are various kinds of music.. You shall see them at their employment. Mys-ticus!
Landlord. Hold!—name him not! I have had enough of that.
Melancardios. Pooh! You shall see nothing to fright you. Mysticus!
(He leaves wand. Mysticus descends.)
Mysticus. What is your will, my lord ?
Melancardios. Conduct our prisoners hither!
(Enter the Seven Travellers in single file, playing on Jews’-harps.) Melancardiis. There, stop! Now let us have the military drill with umbrellas.
(They go through the drill, Mysticus officiating as DrillSergeant. Aubrey and Aloysius appear looking in at window. Aloysius is terrified. Aubrey makes signs for him to keep silent, and both retire, unseen by the Landlord and Melancardios.)
Melancardios. There, friend, what think you of our music? Is it cheap enough? Conduct them forth, Mysticus. (Exeunt Travellers and Mysticus.)
Landlord. Truly thou art a wonderful master. How long is this strange enchantment to last ?
Melancardios. Until they are fit to kill. (Exeunt.)
'	[End of Scene H, Act II.]
Marie Antoinette.
During the French Revolution, towards the close of the last century, the grave-digger at the Church of the Madeleine in Paris used to collect about every fortnight his bill for the burial of persons that had been publicly executed. The bill for the burials of- the first two weeks of October, 1793, is still extant, and, beginning October 1st, has among others the following items:
October 16 —Widow Capet.—A coffin, 6 franks. Grave and the workmen, 25 franks. Joly, Grave-Digger at the Madeleine.
At the foot of this bill was the following voucher:
Two hundred and sixty-four livres are to be paid from the National Treasury to the grave-digger of the Madeleine, ci izen Joly, in compensation for expenses and labor.	„	.
Year II of the Republic.	Hebman, President.
This widow Capet was no other person than- the once
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
73
beautiful and accomplished Queen, Marie Antoinette of France, wife of the unfortunate king Louis XVI, who had preceded her a few months-previous on the way to the scaffold. .
Mary Antoinette was an Austrian archduchess, and the youngest daughter of the great Empress Maria Theresa. Twenty-two years before her death she was just emerging from childhood, and at the age of sixteen years she was the admired bride of the young dauphin of France. She was a victim of modern policy, and wedded .to a husband who was a good moral man, but in every other respect weak-minded, whose only redeeming point was his patience and piety, that enabled him to die like a hero and a saint. Had this unfortunate king during his reign possessed the same heroism which he displayed before his judges and on the scaffold, we may well believe that neither he nor his queen would ever have been deprived at once of their throne and their lives by the champions of modern revolution.
Marie Antoinette was far superior to her husband, but she remained true to him, although he at first made upon her the impression that he was a peasant disguised as a prince. Though breathing the pestilential atmosphere of Trianon and Versailles, she did not swerve from her marriage vows; though she still had opportunities of reaching an asylum in her native land were she to leave the king to his fate, she did not forsake her weak-minded and faltering husband. She remained faithful to the last, following her husband even to the ignoble death he suffered. -
This martyr queen was indeed a worthy daughter of a noble and great mother, Marie Theresa of Austria, among the greatest women that ever adorned the throne of a nation.
wealth of Croesus, though in the eyes of man he has attained the highest pinnacle of earthly glory, yet if his ambition be selfish he is a failure, for his success extends no further than this life—in the life to come he is without rank and honor. Yet to genius the tribute of success is not exclusively paid. On the contrary, by far the majority of successful men are found in that middle class which Argu describes as being the happiest portion of the human race. The world owes a living and a good name to every man; it rests with one’s self whether the golden opportunity will be cast aside. It is the man of decision of character, the man of perseverance and determination, who is successful in this world; it is not the man of weak mind, of vacillating purpose, who gains his crown of glory. He who sits upon the fence, in doubt upon which side to jump, is easily led away from the path of duty; but he who is unwavering in his purpose to attain the goal is on the surest road to it.
How much preferable is the condition of that man who, having been faithful in his efforts, is surrounded by the prosperity and contentment attendant upon a truly successful career, to the condition of the man who, wrong at the start, has pursued an unworthy aim, and finds all his projects unsuccessful until he end his career in utter ruin I Napoleon astonished the world by his prodigious undertakings and the brilliancy of their success, but when his insatiable ambition caused him to forget that there was a power on earth to which even he should pay homage, he compassed his final ruin.
True success is a prize well worth an effort to win; if the aim be worthy and be faithfully carried out its obtain-ance is a certainty.	R. R.
True and False Success.
Every man who has made his mark in the world has shaped within his mind some line of conduct, pursuing which he will attain the goal which he conceives to be the true solution of the problem of his life. It is in settling within his mind what shall form the goal of all his ambitious aims that he is liable to mistake. This forms the turning point of his existence; if he choose aright, and carry out well and faithfully that choice, then he is on the road to the haven of true success; but if, on the contrary, he be mistaken in his views, then he stands before the world in the light of a failure—his existence upon earth is unproductive of any apparent good to society. But what do we understand by true success? Is that man truly successful who, possessing great business talents, is able to amass riches fabulous in- amount? Or he who from obscurity raises himself to a position where he shines as a star of the first magnitude in the zenith of the political world? Or that general, who, with Napoleonic genius', drives everything before him in his victorious march of conquest? Or that ruler who surrounds himself with a gorgeous court and unrivalled splendor, and whose reign is marked by brilliant conquests and profound diplomacy ? Not necessarily any of these. But, if combined with any of these qualities, a man possess a firm integrity of character and consecrates his actions not at the altar of selfish ambition, but at the altar of Him who rules and directs all things, he it is who satisfies the highest ideal of the successful man. On the other hand though his genius be transcendant, though his riches rival in extent the fabulous
How to Increase One’s Vocabulary.
There are few persons that know how to read with profit or advantage to themselves, and an exemplification of this will readily prove my assertion to the satisfaction of all.
Having visited not a long time since the two largest libraries in New York city, I had occasion to acquire considerable information regarding the manner in which two classes of our people read. It will be necessary, theref >re, to state why and for whom these libraries were instituted. The one was founded that the middle class m ght hive occasion to occupy their leisure hours, so as io derive, if possible, some useful knowledge for themselves au.i f unilies;' the other was established for the use of scholars, that they might be enabled to prosecute their studies in the various arts and sciences, and in a particular degr.e h i ve at hand an asylum wherein to review those works best suited to their sphere of life and position in society. I.i ihe first named library I observed that the b >dy of read -rs, bo h young and old, went on at random, if I m ly s > use the expression, without any positive signs of d< riving much good from the matter before them; but just the reverse existed in the latter. Here the men no longer r *«(! on, iurn-ing page after page as if trying how soo ■ they could finish a work, but rather weighed well what they read, and pencilled into their little note-books whatever ihouuht or expression might have been of a striking or bri.l-ant nature. In fact they gave an air to the whole place of something solemn and imposing. In like manner do many students employ their precious time in reading. They take up an author, survey its contents wholly or in part, and that is
74
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC’.
all; whereas, on the contrary, there are others who when » they peruse a book, however great or small in importance it may be, employ their pencil, paper and dictionary, thereby soon obtaining not only much knowledge but a copious vocabulary of words—a requisite for each and every person that intends to acquire a liberal education.
If you wish to get the full benefit of your reading, cultivate the habit of writing something, either out of or about the books you read, and make a brief synopsis of the important facts and arguments in historical and scientific works. Of many other books it would be better to write a few words concerning the general impression the book makes on your mind, whether you like it or not, and the reasons for your opinion. It cultivates one’s taste and judgment, as well as assists thejmemory. It helps, too, to get one’s ideas about books into some tangible form or shape. But, moreover, if we desire to soon possess a copiousness of vocabulary, we must certainly read much and carefully in the manner I have designated. We should spend much time in careful reading, and beware of swallowing books; we must masticate and digest what we read: Aon multa sed multum. Another necessary point is this, never to let a word go by until you understand its meaning; if it cannot be found in the dictionary, ask some learned friend what it means, and then take note of it. By committing to memory some of the more striking passages of classic authors we likewise add to our vocabulary, and lay up much useful knowledge. We should always read he very best authors, for they use a far greater variety of words than second or third-rate men, who too often pace round and round in a narrow circle of thought. Probably no man has ever been master of the whole wealth of the English vocabulary, but the simple fact of holding a place in literature is a guarantee of extraordinary mastery of language.	J. B. M.
Scientific Notes.
-—Among the recent acquisitions in the Garden of Ac-climatation in Paris are specimens of land tortoises from the Sevchelle. Islands, one of which weighs nearly 400 pounds.
—Sir Samuel Baker advocates the establishment of a botanical garden in Cyprus, similar to that in Ceylon, under the charge of a competent official, by whom experiments will be made, and the trees most suitable for the climate and varying latitudes of mountain ranges will be selected.
—A notable instance of that curious natural illusion known as mirage was observed early last month at Halberstadt. The house and tower on the Brocken were reproduced on a large and unusually distinct scale for about one minute. The architectural details, even to the outlines of the windows, were represented.
—Jacobsen, a brewer of Copenhagen, has set aside $280,000 to found a laboratory of scientific research. A part of the money is to be spent in keeping up the laboratories attached to his brewery, in which chemical and physiological researches are carried on with a view to establish as completely as possible a scientific basis for brewing and malting.
—A hint to those who may have occasion to break up stone or use stone-breaking machines may be found in the announcement by Tournone of the result of certain experiments in regard to the crushing of stone. In the experiments with chalk-stone dried, dried in the air, and wet, it was found that the ratios of crushing force required were the proportions of 86, 23, and 18. Another experiment gave 36, 23, and 12, and still another gave 52, 26, and 21. It will thus be seen that by wetting the samples the force 23, required for crushing, was considerably reduced.
—Padre Ferrari, the new Director of the Observatory at the Coliegio Romano, announces the discovery of a new comet on August 22, at 8 h. 30 min. He has registered it as a star of the seventh magnitude, under No. 56,696 in Lalande’s catalogue. It was then close to the constellation of the Scorpion, but it is rapidly descending, so that on September 6th its declination or distance (south) from the equator will be about 20° 22'. The light is very feeble, but still sufficiently visible. Its apparent diameter is 3'. It is transparent, shows no signs of a solid nucleus, and frequently changes color.
—The last number of Nature says in regard to the continued search for Watson’s and Swift’s intra-mercurial planet: “Close and continued search along the ecliptic with large refractors, provided with long ‘ dew-caps ’ blackened inside, for 10° or 12° on each side of the sun, may now afford the best chance of recovering the planet previous to the next total solar eclipse, or probably until the eclipse in May, 1882; for it will be seen that in the eclipse of January, 1880, the duration of totality is short, and which is of still more consequence, the central line runs mainly amongst the Pacific Islands without touching anywhere observations would be likely to be very practicable.”
—Lieut. Kitchener, R. E., has handed over to the Committee of the Palestine Exploration Fund the whole of the memoirs, special plans, and lists connected with the great ' map of Western Palestine. These materials, now in the hands of the Committee, consist of a map in twenty-six sheets, on the scale of one inch to a mile; a map in three sheets, on the scale of three-eighths of the large map; and an immense collection of memoirs from the note-book of Lieut. Condor and himself. The Committee have already taken steps for the publication of .the maps, and will at once proceed to consider that of the memoirs, a part of the work as important as the map. Lieut. Kitchener exchanges the work of the Palestine Fund for the important charge of the survey of Cyprus, to which he has been appointed by the Foreign Office. He achieved in Palestine what may be called the unparalleled feat in survey work, of surveying 1,000 square miles for 1,000?., and in eight months.—Nature.
Art, Music and Literature.'
—Mr. Grant Allen has nearly completed a volume on “ The Color Sense, its Origin and Development.”
—The ancient organ played upon for four years by the famed Sebastian Bach is being repaired at Arnstadt.
—Dr. Arthur Sullivan is writing an oratorio for the Worcester festival of 1880, which promises to be his crowning work.
—Thomas Carlyle has begun his autobiography, which he intends to be his last work, and which is to be published fter his death.
—Dr. Von Billow will include in his repertoire at the Hanover Opera-House the Russian opera by Glinka, “ A Life for the Czar.”	•
—A new opera, “Raffaelqe la Fornarina,” words and music by Signor Sebastians, has been produced with moderate success at Rome.
—The New York Tribune says: “ Mr. Theodore Thomas has just received the score of Brahms’ second symphony. But unfortunately it is not for us.”
—The race of Gluck is extinct. The last survivor, an Austrian officer, the Chevalier Ferdinand Gluck, recently died at Aschach, a village on the Danube.
—Mr. Bret Harte, recently appointed United States’ Consul at Crefeld, is staying for a short time in England. He has written for the Belgravia a short story entitled “A Tourist from Injianny.”
—A portrait of President Lincoln, by the artist Bicknell, which has been hanging for some time in the State House at Augusta, is said to be the finest and most correct likeness of that statesman ever painted.
—The Temps gives an account of an amended version of Racine’s Iphigenie by a M. Gautier-Senez, who professes to have conversed with Racine’s spirit and obtained his approval of alterations miserably bald and commonplace.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	75
—Dr. T. Nicholas has for some time been, engaged upon a “ History of Wales and the Welsh Marches, including an account of the Cymric People, Language, and Literature,” and the book is now in a forward state of preparation.
—Mr. Ho, one of the Secretaries attached to the Chinese Legation, is engaged in translating Shakspeare into Chinese. The same gentleman has also made considerable progress in a translation of Blackstone’s Commentaries into the same language.
—A Boston paper says that a new music-hall in that city is one of the certainties of the near future. The Hub has evidently been stirred up by the example of Cincinnati, and it is not unlikely that a grand college of music will follow the hall.
—Mr. Watkin Lloyd is engaged on a new translation of the “Iliad,” using a metre which is not regularly hexamet-rical, but approaches that form of verse and allows a greater freedom than its stricter employment would permit. He is far advanced in his work.
—John Boyle O’Reilly, the distinguished poet and litterateur, has declined the nomination of State Auditor tendered him by the Worcester Convention. In this he shows his sound sense. Mr. O’Reilly is a first class editor and nukes the influence of the Boston Pilot felt throughout the UnTced States. The Pilot could ill afford to have its editor’s work interfered with.
’ —A very suggestive sign of the advent of better times is the increased demands of pupils upon music-teaehers. In commercial parlance, the music-teaching business, both vocal and instrumental, is firm, with an upward tendency. Nearly all the teachers have their hours full. As music is always the quickest to feel the depressing tendency of hard times, the change we have noted is very significant. —Chicago Tribune.
—Capt. Gill has lately presented to the British Museum a small manuscript volume, apparently of Buddhist Prayers, written in hieroglyphic characters, which he obtained during his recent journey overland from China to Burmah from the chief of a tribe inhabiting part of the mountainous region dividing those two countries. Religious works of a similar kind appeared to be in common use among the members of the tribe.
—A noteworthy book is in preparation at the Appletons for the holidays. The work will be called “American Painters,” and will consist of eighty-four full-page wood engravings from .the works of the foremost artists of this country, with sketches of the artists by Mr. G. W. Sheldon. The engravings were prepared originally for Appletons' Art Journal, at a cost of $12,000, and are believed to be superior to any other collection of the kind anywhere published.
—Messrs. Roberts Brothers (Boston) are about to publish in their “ No-Name Series ’’ a somewhat curious volume, to be entitled “ A Masque of Poets.” It will contain anonymous poems by many of the most distinguished American poets, and also many from London sources, Among the latter are known to be poems by Jean Ingelow, Christina Rossetti, Lord Houghton, Mr. W. Allingham. Mr. P. B. Marston, and other well-known poets.—Athenaeum.
—Mr. Ruskin hopes in a short time to he able to complete at any rate the eighth volume of “ Fors Clavigera,’’ together with a summary of the whole work. No number has appeared since his illness in March. He also intends, as soon as possible, to finish the “Proserpina,” “Deucalion,” and the “Laws of Fesole” series. In connection with the “ Laws of Fesole,” Mr. Ruskin intends to issue a folio series of engravings, from drawings by himself and others, as drawing copies for students.—Athenaeum.
—A very successful amateur musical entertainment was given at the West End Opera House, Chicago, on thq 19th, at which Miss Lilly West bore off the honors. The Chicago Times says .• “Miss West’s performance of “Leonora ” was a very good one. The young lady boasts an unusual combination of vocal and dramatic talent, and her marked success in the part was as surprising as it was agreeable. She evinced an artistic appreciation of the necessities of the character quite unusual in an amateur, and it would seem that she betrays too much promise not to go on with her study of vocalism, and perhaps, under very favorable circumstances, her pursuit of operatic honors.”
—The object which attracts most attention in the Italian Court of the Paris Exhibition is certainly the statue of Pius IX, by the sculptor P-agliacetto. This great work, only completed a few day before the death of the saintly Pontiff, represents him seated in his sedia gestatmria with outstretched arms, as if to welcome a group of pilgrims who came to pay their homage. The head and figure are majestic, slightly bending forward as if to encourage the pilgrims to approach him. The well-known benevolent smile is happily expressed, and the bright, intelligent eyes only want life to give them a perfect expression. In alluding to this statue the Gazette Artistique says:—“ This statue is a real work of art. The true character of Pius IX is here represented in all its dignity and majesty; the calm, frank and intelligent visage, with its benevolent expression, which was its characteristic trait, is finely displayed.”
—A portrait round which a very exceptional amount of lit erary interest clusters has been offered to the trustees of the National Portrait Gallery, London, for purchase. It is a likeness of Charles Lamb, painted by the artist and essayist William Hazlitt, and presented to Coleridge. Coleridge left it to his friend and host, Mr. Gillman, and from the wiclow of Mr. Gillman it has come to its present owner, Mr. Moger. The likeness has been spoken of with special approval by Crabb Robinson in his Diary. This picture represents Lamb at the age of about thirty, in a sixteenth century Spanish costume, half length and full size; the amount of life-like, variable expression in the face is very considerable, and the execution is sufficiently good to show that Hazlitt, however superior he may have been as a writer, was not by any means without capability as a painter. A duplicate of this portrait is in the possession oi Mrs. Moxon. There cannot be a doubt, says the Athenaeum, that the original is the one now owned by Mr. Moger for purchase. It has been engraved in one of the collections of Lamb’s letters, but the oil picture is vastly better than the engraving. It was very delicately engraved in 18GG, also as the frontispiece to Barry Cornwall’s delightful memorial-monograph on Charles Lamb, published by Moxon, J. A. Vinter being the lithographer.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from the Catholic Publication Society copies of a History of the Middle Ages, Deharbe's Catechism, Ho. 2, and 21?i Introductory History of the United States, which will be noticed hereafter.
—The October number of Our Young Folks' Magazine is as interesting to its readers as those which have preceded it for the past two years. It is the best Catholic magazine that could be put into the hands of young people.
—One of the best things in the world is to be a boy. Boys have always been so plenty they are not half appreciated. A boy is willing to do any amount of work if it is called play. The feeling of a boy toward pumpkin pie has never been properly considered. A boy furnishes half the entertainment, and takes two-thirds of the scolding of the family circle. It is impossible to say at what age a boy becomes conscious that his trouser-legs are too short, and is anxious about the part in his hair. In fact, a boy is a hard subject to get a moral from.
—The English crown diamonds are valued at §8,500,000. They are in a thick iron chest, and are guarded by sentinels day and night. There is a diadem of eighty-six diamonds of various sizes, in the middle of which is the celebrated Koh-i-noor, alone valued at §320,000; also a collar of 108 diamonds, in the centre of which is an emerald, said to be the purest and most beautiful extant. A second diadem is a blending' of diamonds and emeralds. In the centre is the large Kaudavassy diamond, valued at §600,000. It would be rated at a higher sum were it not for a slight defect. These, and many other valuables of the kind, belong to the English crown. A portion are used by the Princess of Wales on special occasions; the Kaudavassy was formerly the eye of a one-eyed Hindoo deity, and has been but lately added to the collection.
76
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

jVotre Dame, October 5, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.	‘
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Jfei- Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Classical Training.
The question is often asked, what advantage is to be gained by the study of the classics ? The advantages are such, and so numerous, that they must be obtained to be appreciated, and then their number appears also. We can answer the question by asking another: What benefit do you acquire by the study of any other branch—for instance, the sciences? Of course the answer will be, Many. By study of the sciences we acquire a knowledge of nature’s laws, and they tend to strengthen and enlarge the mind. So the cultivation of ancient literature is proportionately beneficial to each and every faculty, by enlivening the imagination, by refining our taste, by giving strength to our power of judgment, and also by forming a means of communication between the different mental powers; they tend to promote probity and favor virtue, as well as to drive off prejudice and dispel vice. The classics also afford knowledge of men who lived before us, who are examples to be followed by us, whose virtue and success should be emulated by us,and whose vices and failure should be our solemn warning. The classics are the standard works of the Greeks and Romans, a people of entirely different character from modern nations. They were pupils of nature, possessing the keenest sensibility for nature’s charms, and renowned for their activity and energy in contests for mental superiority. Nature and love of liberty guided them in every action, and their works seem to be flowers sprung from nature and freedom.
Greece had its day, and once grandly rose above every other nation on earth, supreme monarch of all, and ruled them by her command. Virtue was her guiding star, and she thrived as long as there was genius to use this virtue, and instil it into the hearts of others. Greece, so sublime and prolific in her literature, produced men who were des-ined ever after to serve as models in their respective branches. Homer was the morning star, the first that ap
peared in the horizon of her literary firmament ; and so grand and brilliant was his light that even now he is acknowledged as the greatest poet that ever lived. His “;Iliad ” and “Odyssey” will be read and admired as long as the bright sun diffuses his light on civilized men.
Where do we find our model of eloquence? Do we not acknowledge as such the noble patriot and statesman, Demosthenes, whose powerful outbursts of eloquence held his auditors bound with admiration and astonishment, and which even now flash to the people of this erudite age, across the bleak desert of twenty-four centuries, with almost undiminished brilliancy and grandeur. Even the language holds us spell-bound. How powerful and thrilling must it have been when rolling forth from the golden tongue of Demosthenes!
Greece has also produced her historians, the mention of one of whom will suffice. Thucydides is noted for his most pleasing style and clear statement of facts. He attained perfection in the Attic dialect, and his history still serves as a model. What learned men must her philosophers have been, who, contrary to the prejudices of the times, and unaided by revelation, reasoned out the immortality of their souls and the existence of one Supreme Ruler of the universe ! Plato did this, and promulgated doctrines which are even now accepted.
Perhaps the happiest people on whom the sun ever shone were the Athenians under Solon, who administered so justly, and established such equitable laws, that the State was so perfectly settled as to give the people no care but for the cultivation of literature, art and science. Such lawgivers are seldom found, but when they do appear are the greatest benefactors a country can ever have. Grand military achievements have ever been objects of the greatest admiration and of glorious heroes. Greece has produced a greater number than any other country. The mere mention of the name of one will be sufficient to show their glory and excellence. -1 mean Alexander the Great.
Rome was the next great nation that swayed the powerful and universal sceptre long after the glory of Greece, as a nation, had perished. In her situation in the luxurious southern climes of classic Italy, could she well help producing an abundance of beautiful and imaginative literati? Look at the Golden Age, when all was a paradise under Augustus; Virgil, Rome’s greatest poet flourished then. He, describing in rapturous and entrancing verse the adventures of his noble hero, ^Eneas, is a continual source of enjoyment to one acquainted with his language. Who does not admire Horace, who in his beautiful odes has immortalized himself and the subjects of his graceful theme? Roman historians are equal to any who ever recorded deeds for posterity. Livy, Sallust and Tacitus, all so pointed, emphatic, clear and precise, that we might consider their works as perfect. Rome produced many orators, and one unequalled only by Demosthenes. Truly in Cicero we have all virtues combined; and he cannot fail to be an object for our emulation and admiration. And now we come to the most wonderful of all, the renowned Julius Caesar, who was almost equally perfect in oratory, rhetoric, slates manship and military power. By the strength of his single genius he placed the Roman Empire so firmly on her throne of grandeur, in the midst of her seven hills, that the storms of centuries swept against her and were dashed back without effect. What man, sung Chaudet, ever founded an empire so powerful and enduring ?	•
The study of the writings of such men and of their ex-
r*	.
'	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.1
ploits is what constitutes the study of the classics. Are not their accruing benefits clear enough ? We have in them languages retained in all their philosophic simplicity; and as all the greatest authors wrote when their nations were in the acme of their glory, the beautiful tongues are devoid of all that begets coarseness and vulgarity. All the best words in modern languages are derived from the Greek and Latin, and hence the student of the classics is enabled to see their full depth of meaning. From their study an immense amount of historical knowledge may be acquired; and we can but imperfectly learn the deeds of these noble men from modern historians, who, owing to many circumstances and prejudices, are too often wholly unreliable. No; the best way to read the history of these noble people is in their own languages, which are so pure, simple and yet so grand, that our own language sinks into insignificance by comparison with them. Again, we all know that the greatest men of modern times take for their models the ancient authors, orators, statesmen and generals, so that our greatest writers always intersperse their productions with the sentiments of Grecian and Roman authors, which add greatly to the beauty of their works, but the depth and meaning of which can only be appreciated by one acquainted with these philosophic languages.
’Tis universally acknowledged that Cicero and Demosthenes are paragons in eloquence, but for a person of our day to take up one of their orations translated, would be for him to pronounce it and its author unworthy of the great praise and honor they really and justly deserve. The greater part of their beauty is lost in translation, but what remains cannot but be appreciated and praised. It is the same with all ancient authors. But in their own language what vehemence, fire, grandeur and pathos do they not possess 1 Another and not the least advantage to be obtained is the political knowledge which, owing to the analogy of ancient and modern events, is very great and beneficial. We consider the empires, kingdoms and republics of modern times most wonderful institutions, but when we compare them with the grand old governments of Rome and Greece, the superiority of the latter too plainly appears.
From history we know that Europe has been long in forming, that she has suffered many and great changes, and that all the states in turn have wielded the most powerful sceptre, and each has borne the palm of superiority. So it was in Greece; Athens, the most polished and refined commonwealth of the world, was once supreme, but by her own tyrannical .oppression she fell from her height of power and grandeur; so has France fallen by the misdeeds of her own people, but, thanks to the soothing influence of religion, which, alas, Athens possessed not, she bids we 1 to rise fair and beautiful as ever from the ruins of anarchy and revolution. Lacedtenion was coutempory with Athens, but her greatness was tarnished by her many disgraceful acts. By violating a treaty with the Thebans, the latter were raised to a pitch of fury, and their brave generals Pelopidas and Epaminondas led them to victory. In turn they ruled with the greatest power, until after the death of their two liberators, when, plunging into excesses, they became an easy prey to the devouring ambition of Alexander the Great. All the different States of Greece were supreme at different times. At one time Macedon was considered barbarous, excepting the royal house, but under Philip and Alexander she rose pre-emiuent above all the States of Greece. Russia, until late years, was not counted as one of the European States, whereas she now
stands proudly forth one of the first nations on the globe. Many of the events which Thucydides' narrates in his Peloponnesian war offer a comparison with those of the French Revolution. The different factions and classes rose one against the other, and conspired to make the time a reign of terror. The Greeks had their commune, and Aristotle in his Political Treatise brings up terse and philo sophical arguments against this socialism.. As to Rome, one example, most strikingly analogous to an event of our own times, will suffice. Julius Cresar, first taking the reins of power, found Rome turbulent, disquieted; but forming admirable and just laws, he gradually assumed the whole power, and founded an extensive empire, on a scale of grandeur and magnificence which men now never attempt but simply imagine. After his assassination affairs relapsed into their old state, until his successor, Augustus, ascended to the throne and restored peace and order. In our own time, Napoleon, the greatest general since Ctesar, founded an empire in confused and dismayed France. After his banishment, she fell back into her old state of confusion until Napoleon III seized the sceptre and restored government and tranquillity. But we should be familiar with any of the changes that affected Greece or Rome, and are liable to occur in modern times, as I have just given instances. However, from the examples which those illustrious nations have left, we should profit; we should spurn and disparage vice of all kinds, and should protect the virtue which led them to their place of glory among the nations of the world. Hence we may acquire this political knowledge, and are besides enabled to fathom the theories and grasp the laws which govern these politicals tempests and revolutions, by the study of the classics, more quickly and firmly than in any other way. Add to this the fact that all laws have their foundations in those of Greece and Rome, and especially of the latter, as we can see by reading Cicero or Livy. So we see that it behooves every one who possibly can to acquire a knowledge of the classics, and it is even actually necessary in a country like ours, where all are equal, and where knowledge and virtue are the greatest keys to power; and surely by the study of the classics a man has greater facilities for acquiring these two necessary qualities than in any other way, for the philosophy of Ihe languages strengthens, refines, and disciplines the mind, and he sees, on the one hand, virtue begetting success, grandeur, and magnificence, and on the other hand vice drawing upon itself degradation, infamy and failure in the greatest nations and among the most glorious peoples that ever lived. Fortunately there is a providential connection between all the different branches of science and knowledge. Were this not the case, a man, to fit himself for any occupation, would be obliged to continually labor and endeavor to progress in the same unbroken and narrow path which alone leads to success, without ever passing into other fields to rest his weary mind. .But, thanks to this happy union, man is allowed to wander from his way into different fields of knowledge, of which the most enchanting and productive of good is that of the classics, there to gather flowers with which to adorn, and fruits with which to refresh and strengthen his mind, and thus prepare it for greater exertions and finally more certain and gratifying success.	J.
—Small geniuses are hurt by small events; great geniuses see through and despise them.	•
78	THE^NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.]
Personal.
—John J. Caren, of ’75, is living at Columbus, Ohio.
—Ex-Gov. T. A. Hendricks visited Notre Dame last week.
—Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, is expected at Notre Dame to-morrow evening.
—John E. Hagerty (Commercial, of’77,) is keeping books for his father, 944 Broadway, St. Louis, Mo.
—Rev. J. M. Toohey, who has been giving missions for the past few weeks, returned to Notre Dame on the 2d.
—Bro. Emmanuel, who has been spending a week’s vacation at Notre Dame, has left for his field of labors.
—Rev. Thos. Hayes, of ’54, now residing at Del Norte, Colorada, visited Notre Dame on the 3d. He is in excellent health.
—Among our many visitors during the past week were F. L. Montagu, Boston, Mass.; F. A. Eastman, Chicago; A. Clarke and Dr. Andrew P. Clarke, Baltimore, Md.
—Mr. Charles Golovin, a brother of Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C.', formerly President of the College here, died recently of yellow fever at Vicksburg. May he rest in peace.
____We see by the telegraphic despatches that in the consolidation of the Democratic and the Greenback ticket in Iowa, John Gibbons, of ’59, is retained as candidate for Attorney General of the State.
’___We hear it rumored that Edward K. Anderson (son of Gen. Anderson of Returning Board fame), who attended class here last year, has died of yellow fever. We have heard nothing definite, and hope that the report will not be confirmed.
____p. J. Cooney, of ’78, an old and esteemed contributor to Thi Scholastic, writing on business matters, says among
, other things: “ I hope you will still consider me a mem-I her of the Academia, and—if they be acceptable—I shall' * occasionally send you an article for its columns. Among
the many, very many, pleasant remembrances of Notre Dame, none do I cherish more, and none do I recall with fonder affection than my connection with the Academia.”
—Of the chief contributors to The Scholastic in the . year 1874 and ’5, and consequently members of the Acai demia, T. F. Gallagher resides at Lynn, Mass. He did read law, but whether he is practicing or not, we do not « know. E. J. McLaughlin is a priest in Iowa. J. J.
Gillen attended the Seminary at Troy, N. Y. We believe he is ordained for the diocese of Boston, but do not know where he is stationed. John G. Ewing is reading law at Lancaster, Ohio. Thomas J. Murphy taught school at Ravenna, Ohio. We believe he still resides there. Thos. H. Grier is farming near Geneva Lake, Wis. William P. Breen is reading law at Fort Wayne, Ind.
Local Items.	.
—The Philopatrians have a full field band.
—The Senior Orchestra has frequent rehearsals.
—New decorations are being put up in Washington Hall.
—The leaves of the trees are beginning to change color.
—The St. Cecilians will come out strong next Saturday.
—The Ave Maria and Scholastic printing office is being repainted.
—A couple of games of baseball were played last ^Wednesday.
\ —The Mutuals were beaten on the 2d by the Independents by a score of 31 to 19.
—Very Rev. President Corby will open the lecture course on the 17th of this month.	.
—The Seniors return many thanks to the Senior Orchestra for favors received from them.
—A full programme of the Entertainment on the 12th will be given in our next number.
—Quite a number of young fishermen lined the banks of the lakes on Wednesday afternoon.
—A large number of the Juniors, with Bro. Lawrence, were out on promenade last Wednesday afternoon.
—Vespers to-morrow are of the Blessed Virgin, page 36 of the Vesperal. In the morning Missa Regia will be sung.
—The monthly Bulletins were made out last Wednesday •and duly mailed to the parents and guardians of the students. I —Two new staiued-glass windows were lately presented to the church by the Gouley family and Mr. T. Summers..
—Again we ask of everyone sending communications to The Scholastic not to write on both sides of a sheet of paper.
—The members of the Sodadity of the Holy Angels went to Holy Communion in a body on the 2d, the Feast of the. /Holy Guardian Angels.
j —The Nimrods took a jaunt to St. Joe Farm Wednesday and spent a very pleasant day. Twenty birds were brought back with them.
I —The old dormitory of the Minims, in the College build! ing, has been undergoing improvements and will be used as part of the Cabinet of Sciences. -	.
—During the coming week four subdeacons, three deacons and three priests will be ordained at Notre Dame by the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne.
—The regular monthly visit of the classes by the Rev. . Director of Studies has begun. The Minim and Preparatory courses have been visited to the satisfaction of the visitor.
/ —We return thanks to the Nimrods for a fine treat to /prairie chicken on Thursday last. The Nimrods were ac- ■ companied on their hunt by Very Rev. President Corby.
—Only three Philopatrians, two St Cecilians and one member of the Archconfraternity, in the Junior Department got notes last week. This speaks well for the societies.
—The Avalon, a very handsome, well-edited monthly, published by the San Francisco Literary and Dramatic Society, has been added to our exchange list. May it ever prosper.	-
—Masters J. Byrne and J. Stewart, of the Senior Department, delighted the Seniors by favoring them with a double clog dance one day last week, the Senior Orchestra furnishing the music.
—After this week we will discontinue sending Scholastics to all subscribers who have not responded to the circular sent them, as we-take it they do not wish the paper for another year.
—We call attention to the advertisement of the Inman Line of ocean steamers in another column. Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, is their agent for Northern Indiana. People going to Europe .can find -no better line.
—Among the many excellent journals to which we might call the attention of our readers there is none more deserving the support of the Catholic public than McGee's Illustrated, Weeldy. We recommend all our readers to subscribe for it.
—“The Hidden Gem,” by Cardinal Wiseman, will be played by the St. Cecilians next Saturday evening, Oct 12th. ’This beautiful drama was played at Notre Dame in the June of 1859, and again in the winter of 1863.
—Whenever you find a student teasing another about any defect, affliction, etc., you may put it down that the teaser is generally subject to some defect as bad, if not worse, than that of the teased. Just observe a little, boys, and you will find what we say to be true.
—Next Saturday evening the St. Cecilians will give their Entertainment. They will play Cardinal Wiseman’s drama entitled “The Hidden Gem.” We trust that the ' young gentlemen will sustain the honor of their Society. ‘ We will print the programme next week.
—The bi-annual retreat of the clergy of the Fort Wayne diocese will begin day after to-morrow. It will be preached by Rev. Father Nussbaum, S. J. The priests will occupy during the week the Professed House, on what once was an island, between the two lakes. It has been refitted up for them during the week past.
. —We hope that the out-door sports on St. Edward’s Day will be as in former years. St. Edward’s Day happens this year on Sunday; consequently all the out-door sports will be postponed to some other day. On what day these sports will take place we do not know, but hope that the
THE NOT(RE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	79
•3
‘prizes will be worth contending for, and that the contestants will all strive to win.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General, gave a [ dinner party Tuesday at Notre Dame to the Faculty of the |	University and a number of old friends and prominent citi-
|	zens of this city, including Jlon. T. S. Stanfield, Hon. Wilf	liam Miller, Hon. Lucius Hubbard, Hon Andrew Ander-
|	son, Mayor Tong, Messrs. John R. Foster, Clem Stude-
f	baker, A. Coquillard, John Treanor, and Dr. Schmidt, of
J	Chicago.—South Bend Baily Register.
%	; —If the corresponding secretaries of the different so-
/ cieties would make out the reports of meetings the morn-J ing after they are" held, and put these reports in The Scho-Ilastic box in the corridor of the College, we would never fail to report all meetings held. The members of the societies should insist upon their secretaries doing this. The more the public at Notre Dame know of societies the more interest will it manifest in regard to them.
—We have heard complaints of some people that we publish more reports of meetings of some societies than of others. We confess that the charge is true, but the fault is not ours. It is the fault of the societies themselves. They . should instruct their secretaries to furnish the reports, and see that they do so. It is our desire to give all the news of the place, but we find it too much work to buttonhole members of a society to get information which the secretaries might easily furnish.
—The second regular meeting of the Archconfraternity f of the Immaculate Conception of the B. V. M. was held on |	the evening of the 29th of September. The ten-minutes’ ad-
।	dress was given by Very Rev. A. Granger. G. Donnelly exI*	plained the object of the Society. J. A. Gibbons gave an es-
say on “Confession.’’ K. Scanlan explained “ The Scapular.” Masters J. Gafihey, R. French, E. Murphy, G. Castanedo, J. Sheid, J. Seeger, J. Devitt, 0. Eigholz, F. Phillips,’ J. (	Mug, A. Zahm, J. Eisenhauer, J. Fogarty, H. Haerly, A.
।	Rock, F. Greaver, J. Casey, and J. Kurtz were elected to
j membership.	'
I	—On Monday, the 30th ult., the day after- the Feast of St.
1	Michael, the Sodality of the Holy Angels had a very nice
|	luncheon in the Senior refectory. Besides the forty mem-
f hers of the Sodality, there sat down to the tables Very Rev. i President Corby, Very Rev. A. Granger, Rev. Fathers f Walsh and Kelly; Messrs. Morrissey, Kollop and Mahony; I Bros. Leander, Edward and Philip. Mr. McNamara, the ’ director of the Sodality, and Bro. Albert, the prefect of the ' department to which it belongs, were also present. Everybody was well pleased, for everything passed off in a most pleasant and enjoyable manner.
—The fourth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held Oct. 2d. Messrs. Schnull and Walters were elected members. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. Murphy, Donnelly and Zahm. The drama of “ The Hidden Gem ” was read, and the parts were assigned to the members as follows: “ Euphemeauns,” A. Zahm; “Alexius,” Frank Bloom; “Cariuns,” K. Scanlan; “Proculus,” G. H. Donnelly; “Eusebius,” M. J. Burns; “Bibulus,” F. McGrath; “Daons,” E^ Ewell; “Ursulas,” J.Mug; “Verna,” J. Gibbons; “Gaunio,” W. J. McCarthy; Chamberlain, J. Brady; Officer, A. Rietz. The other characters will be taken by the other members of the Association.
j —Among many other relics lately added to the large collection now at Notre Dame are two which deserve especial .	mention. One of these is the emblematic heart, etc., worn
i	on his habit by the founder of the Order of the Passionists,
I St. Paul of the Cross. It was given to Signor Gregori, the \ artist, by the Superior of a Passionist convent in Italy as a ' token, for a picture painted by him and presented to the convent Signor Gregori before leaving Notre Dame gave it to Very Rev. Father Granger. The other relic is a glove worn by Pius IX up to his last hours. It was given to Very Rev. Father Sorin during his late visit to Rome. Both of these relics are highly prized, and will be put in a suitable place in the new church, where shortly they may be seen by visitors.
—A game of foot-ball was played on the 30th inst. by the Juniors, between the Reds and Whites. It was one of the most exciting games played this season. The Reds
lost the first two games, but they took the Whites by surprise and won the 3d game. The fourth game was won by the Whites, making the score 3 to 1 in their favor. J. Nelson was captain of the Whites; H. E. Canoll captain of the Reds. Those who did good work on the side of the Reds, were Messrs. Canoil, Williams, Brady, Mug, Murphy, Rock, Van Mourick, Brinkman, Piekenbrock, Schoby, Kennedy, Zahm, Zeis, and Burns; ’on that of the Whites, Messrs. Nelson, A. Keitz, Bloom, Clarke, E. Sugg, French, Haerly, Gallagher, Weisert, Nelson, Schnull, W. Rietz, and Euell. Alljworked well.
—The first regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held Sept. 26th. The following are the officers: Very Rev. W. Corby, Revs. T. E. Walsh and C. Kelly, Directors; Bro. Leander, Promoter; Prof. J. A. Lyons, President; C. Van Mourick and R. French, VicePresidents ; H. Canoll, Treasurer; C. J. Brinkman, Recording Secretary; J. M. Scanlan, Correspoding Secretary; W. Cannon, Librarian; E. Sugg and J. Guthrie, Censors; J. Seeger, Sergeant-at-arms; J. Halle, Marshal; P. Crowley, Prompter; P. Perley and J. Morgan, Committee. The object of the Society is the study of Elocution, English Composition and declamation. The following were elected members: J. Manning, A. Mergentheim, J. Devitt, W. Devitt, and J. Boose. At the second regular meeting the following were elected: 0. Eigholz, G. Castanedo, and J. S. O’Donnell. Bros. Lawrence and Hugh were elected honorary members. Prof. Stace will continue his series of dramatic readings. Bro. Leander will practice the members in military drill.
—At the weekly meeting of the Faculty of Notre Dame University, held Sept. 26th, the following resolutions were drawn up by the committee appointed for that purpose:
Whereas it has pleased Divine Providence to call Brother .Ctprian, our former associate in the education of youth at INotre Dame, from the cares and temptations of this life to the /hoped-for rewards of a better, therefore
I Be -it Resolved, That we tender ro the Congregation of the Holy Cross our heartfelt sympathy in the loss of such a devoted, exemplary and beloved member as was the esteemed departed.
Resolved, That we do likewise most heartily sympathize with the relatives and friends of the departed, and assure them that the memory of his virtuesis to us, as to them, a support and consolation under this trial.
Resolved, That the example set by him in the heroic exercise of charity in the fever-stricken city of New Orleans is worthy the admiration of all Christians.
Resolved, That the members of the Faculty unite their prayers to those of his many other friends and confreres for his speedy admission to the enjoyment of eternal happiness.
Resolved, That these resolutions be inserted in the minutes of the Faculty of Notre Dame, and published in The Notrb Dame Scholastic and Ave JI aria.
—An item was sent to us last week and appeared in our columns, to which some persons take umbrage. One of these writes to us: “ The Minims acknowledge that the report of a game of baseball in The Scholastic last week in which the Juniors were defeated by the Minims by a score of 4 to 2 is incorrect. It should have been 13 to 2 in favor of the Minims, according to the rules in the Baseball Guide; for in Rule 2, Sec. 7, it says: ‘ Any nine failing to play out a game, except in case of rain or darkness, the umpire shall declare the game forfeited by the nine failing to play, and give their opponents 9 runs or one tally for each player.’ The Minims publish the result of their matchgames with the Juniors to set those right who do not witness the game, for they have heard of incorrect, scores reported by the latter when they returned to their yard after the games. The Junior nines in their friendly contests at baseball with the Minims have failed to come out victorious this season up to the date of the last issue of The Scholastic. This fact appears to have stirred up the bile of some in their quarter, who, believing we suppose that the pen is mightier than the bat, undertook in last week’s Scholastic to beat them with it in print, in the person of their secretary, by accusing him of incorrect statements and flights of imagination. We know the Minims study as effectualy as they play, and can handle the pen as well as the ball, and hence are prepared to fight it out on that line if it takes all summer.” Having given both sides a hearing, we now drop the matter for good and aye.	........
80
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, R. E. Anderson, J. F. Arentz, J. Brice, A. J. Burger, J. B. Berteling,' Al. T. Burns, T. J. Burns, J. Al. Byrne, J. G. Baker, J. Buchanan, Al. H. Bannon, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Congar, G. P. Cassidy, T. Conlan, W. H. Connolly, W. E. Carpenter, B. J. Claggett, W. H. Clagaett, C. J. Clarke, D. S. Coddington, C. E. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, C. K. De Vries, Al. Doty, J. H. Delaney, D. Donohue, L. J. Evers, J. R. English, AI. English, J. Finneran, A. J. Hertzog, L. Horne, AI. J. Hogan, J. C. Hermann, J. Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, A. AI. Keenan, J. F. Krost, J. R. Kelly, P. B. Larkin, W. J; Alurphy, C. F. Alueller, R. P. Alayer, W. B. AlcGorrisk, AI. J. AlcCue, J. B. AlcGrath, J. J. AlcErlain, AL J. AfcEuhy, H. W. Nevans, R. E. O’Brien, S. S. Perley, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Qu,nn, R. Russell, J. J. Shugrue, T. W. Simms, J. H. Stewart, R. D. Siewart, T. 8. Summers, G. E. Sugg, J. Ihompson, P. Shea, J. Scheiber, J. Sleuzak, C. L. Stuckey, P. EL Vogie, F. X. Wall.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. P. Adams, AL J. Burns, J. G. Brady, F. Becker, C. J. Brink-man, F. VY. Bloom, B. A. Casey, J. U. Casey, H. E. Canoil, A. A. Caren, W. D. Cannon, E. P. Cleary, G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, O. C. Eigholz, J. AL Eisenhauer, H. J. Fenner, E. F. Fogarty, J. G. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, E. G. Gallagher, F. Glade, F. T. Gaffney, J. L. Halle, H. ALHaerly, J. Kurz, J. A. Lumiey, E. Murphy, '£. F. AlcGrath, J. L. Alorgau, W. J. McCarthy, A. e. Alanniug, J. F. Alug, J. L. Nelson, H. G. Nues, J. N. Osber, J. A. O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, E. B. Piekenbrock, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A. P. Perky, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, D. P. Reidy, O. P. Rock, J. Al. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, J. AL Schneider, G. A.Schnull, E. G. 8ugg, F. C. Sheid, J. K. Scnobey, C. P. Van Alounck, F. E. Weiser t, R. P. Williams, E. 8. Walters, A. F. Zahm.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. A. McDevitt, G. J. Rhodius, J. J. Gordon, P. F. Brady, C. B. Crowe, A. Bar.rath, W. F. Kheinhardt, C. s. McGrath, J. A. Crowe, P. S. Fitzgerald, U. L. Garrick, J. S. AlcGrath, J. J. In-derneden, E. Howard, J. 8. Garrity, A. H. Chirhart,C. Al. Long, J. Al. Courtney, F. T. Garrity, E. S. Chirhart. H. A. Kitz, T. AlcGrath, J. Chaves, C. J. Welly, H. C. Snee, L. J. Young, J. 8. In-derneden, A. F. Sell muckle, O. Farrelly, E. Farrelly, F. Campau, A. Campau, W. Zimmerman.
.Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satislaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
G. Donnelly, F. AlcGrath, C. Brinkman, F. Grever, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, W. McCarthy, J. Eisenhauer, H. Haerly, A. Rock,’ G. Orr, '1. Conlan, G. Wallers, J. Thompson, P. Larkin, AL Hogan, J. Herrmann, M. Doty, J. Byrne, Al. English, AL Laughlin, J. Brice, A.Keenan,L. Horne, R.Alderson,R.AIajer,T.summers, R. Price, J. Arentz, O. Rettig, J. Johnson, D. Coddington, C. Stuckey, G. Cochrane, C. Alueller, G. 8ampson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. AI. Coghlin, W. A. AlcDevitt, N. P. Nelson, P. F. Brady, A. Hartrath, W. L. Coghlin, J. J. Gordon, C. B. Ciowe, W. F. Rhein-hardt, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, G. Woodson, C. 8. McGrath, J. A. Crowe, J. J. Inderrieden, J. 8. AlcGrath, H. C. Alc-Donald, A. H. Chirhart, P. 8. Fitzgerald, C. L. Garrick, H. W. Bachmann, F. C. Oruer.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director op Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—P. Vogie, E. Piekenbrock, Geo. Orr, J. Guthrie; Grammar—R. Anderson, C. Stuckey, 8. Terry, J. Kurz ; Arithmetic—J. A. Lumley, L. Horne ; Geography—J. Kurz, P. Perley, J. Casey, J. Gibbons ; Book-Keeping—J. Byrne, M. Hogan, T. Summers, J. Q. Johnson, J. Alug, K. Scanlan, J. Hermann, G. Waners, J .Thompson, J. Casey, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, F. McGrath.

—The Literary Societies were reorganized last Wednes-. day.
—The music-classes have been graded. The pupils are much interested in their music, and practice faithfully.
—From the long list of names on the Roll of Honor, good points were plentiful at the Sunday reunion of all the pupils.
—Rev. Father Shortis commenced his regular catechetical instructions for the Catholic pupils before Vespers on Sunday.
—We noticed among the first attempts in water-colors a bunch of grapes and wild berries, by Miss Leota Buck, which give promise of “ ripe fruit.”
—The Fancy-Work room is for a while partially neglected because of the pleasant walks for gathering botanical specimens this delightful weather.
—Very Rev. Father General presided at the reading of notes in the study-hall, and appeared much pleased at the attention which had been given to his remarks of last week.
—Two elegant lamps have been hung in the Chapel of Loreto by Miss Olivia Tong as e&votos; one in recognition of the giace of baptism of tho family, and the other in' memory of her deceased parents, Air. and Mrs. 0. P. Tong, of South Bend.
—St. Angela’s Literary Society was reorganized, and officers appointed by the Directress, Sister Alary Punfica-zioua: President, Aliss Alary English; Vice-President, Aliss Alary Tam; Secretary, Aliss Alurie Dallas; Treasurer, Aliss Eleanor Thomas.
—The first regular meeting of St. Teresa’s Literary Society, under the direction of Mother Alary Annunciata and Sister Alary Blanche, was held S -pt. 25th. The < fiicers elected were as follows: President, Aliss Sarah Aloran; Vice-President, Aliss Alary AlcGrath; Treasurer, Aliss Clara Silverthorn; Secretary, Miss Ida Fisk.'
—St. Catharine’s Literary Society had a very pleasant reunion, and welcomed many new members. This Society is toimed from the ranks of the S- cond and Third Senior Classes. Selections were read by Aliss Cavenor and Aliss G. Winston. The following officers were elected: President, Aliss Alice Fariell; Vice-President, Aliss Annie Cavenor; Treasuier, Aliss Adelaide Kirchner; Secretary, Miss Winston.
—The St. Cecilia Society, founded by Alother Superior last year for the purpose of raising the taste and judgment of music pupils by means of leci ures, readings from musical literature, aesthetics, etc., held its first meeting Saturday, Sept. 28ih, being a preparatory instruction. The course of training necessary to form, not only a musician, but an artist, was explained, the reason why there are so many failures, etc., and closed with a short account of the origin of music.
—One of our loved pupils, Aliss Alary Brown, was sum- • moned to Cleveland by telegram to attend the obsequies of her uncle, Rev. Henry Brown, of that diocese, who died after a long and painlul illness, borne with resignation. We have heard no particulars of the sad bereavement to our dear Alary, whose every incentive to study was to please her uncle. We offer to her the deep sympathy of her teachers and companions, who pray fervently for her under this heavy affliction.
—Ex-Governor Hendricks, of Indianapolis, honored the Academy and pupils by his presence last Thursday. His visit was short. We are told he expressed himself much struck by the beauty of the place and the advantages of education so liberally supplied. After visiting the various departments he entered the Senior study-hall and addressed a few words of encouragement to the assembled pupils, telling them how pleased he was to see so many,
i i
I	■	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	81

I and hoped they would fully appreciate all the advantages | . of the institution, mentioning how many there were det prived of attaining such high training amidst such happy j surroundings.	'
s	—Visitors during the week were: Ex-Governor Hen-
\ dricks, India lapolis; Ex-Governor Webster, Goshen, Ind.; ; Mr. and Mrs. Murphy, Elvira, Iowa; Mrs. Dolan, Elvira, Iowa; Mr. Geo.'V Ballenbpcker; Miss Darrell, Milwaukee;
' Mrs. Sarah Moe aiJ Mr« Kenyon, Sturgis, Mich.; Mr. W. H. Rising, Miss Ida Rising, Hvde Paik, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. J. A.. Mnrphy, Baltimore; Mrs. E Piepra, Cincinnati;
• Rev. Father Egidius Hennemann, 0 S. B., Crown Point, | Ind.; Mr. Purdy, Burlington; Mr. and Mrs. P. Garrity, Chi; cago; Miss Bay Reynolds, Mrs.Rwkin, Cassopolis, Mich.; ■ Miss L. Dexter, Chenoee; M:ss .Gillun, Miss Hart, Nlies, Mich.; Mr. Bvrne, Grand Rtpids, Mich.; Miss Hilton, . Elkhart, Ind ; Miss D. Ryarson, Mr. J. Ryarson, Princeton, Ind.; Miss Hinds, Bloomington, Ind. .
—Specimens from the Art Department were sent to Chicago this week; also some costly laces manufactured by ; members of the community who came to this country ; when Mother Superior returned from Germany two years ! ago. Among those tasteful fabrics were specimens of the finest tex ure of Brussels, Brussels applique, Valenciennes, and the Irish point lace. We remarked two cushions with lace ornament commenced, to show the intricate manner of making the lace with bobbins. Also an elaborate pattern, designed in the Art Department, for a surplice, to be ■ • executed in Brussels lace; a beautiful chasuble, embroid-i ered in silk and gold and appropriate design; several i specimens of embroidery, conspicuous among which is a i Benediction bourse, ornamented by fine water-color paint-■	ing on the silk, by Miss Smalley. From the Studio were
i	a fine oil-painting, some studies in water-colors, some pen-
■ cil drawings, and a few paintings on china in enamel _ colors.' Specimens of penmanship were sent by request.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Ida Eisk, Louisa Kelly, Sarah Moran.
1st Senior Class—Misses Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthom, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Woodin, Mary Birch, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Annie Cavenor, Emma Shaw, Mary Sullivan, Grace Glasser, Jessie Grover.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Emma Garrish, Henrietta Rosing, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cartwright, Annie Jones.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Ellena Thomas, Minna Loe-ber, Julia Kingsbury, Alma Moe, Ina Capelle, Mary Tam, Catharine Wells, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Teresa Zahm, Anna Herman.
FRENCH
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Clara Sil-verthorn, Annie McGrath, Hope Russell.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Galen, Henrietta Rosing, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie, Aurelia Mulhall.
2d Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Emma Shaw, Lucie Chilton, Grace Glasser, Zod Papin, Ida Fisk, Angela Ewing.
3d Class—Misses Louise Neu, Annie Cavenor, Theresa Walters, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Alice Riltman, Annie Cartwright, Henrietta Henrsey, Agnes Brown, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Laura French, Julia Butts.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Wells, Annie Jones, Mary English, Adella McKerlie, Catharine Lloyd, Margaret Cleghorn,. Johanna Baroux.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Theresa Walters, Rebecca Neteler.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon, Annie Herman, Elizabeth Walsh.
3d Class—Misses Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig, Minna Loeber, ' Ina Capelle, Charlotte Van Namee, Alice Farrell.
4th Class—Misses Mary Tam, Mary Fitzgerald, Margaret Mc-’ Namara, Alice Donelan, Julia Butts, Catharine Hackett, Mary i Zimmerman, Martha Doxey, Jennie Sunderland.
’	THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC. -
1st Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthom, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier, Theresa Walters.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.
2d D tv.—Misses Adella Gordon, Leota Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Teresa Killelea, Henrietta Rosing.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell. Mary Campbell, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Sullivan, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary McGrath.
4th Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Catharine Hackett, Annie Maloney, M. Mullen, A. Cartwright, J. Grover.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Wells. Caroline Gall, Genevieve Winston. Mary English, Catharine Campbell. '
5th Class—Mis=es Henrietta H-arsey, Emma Gerrish, Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Z >e Papin, Emma Shaw, Angela Ewing,Annie Wood n, Della McKerlie, Annie Cavenor.
2d Dtv.—Mis-es Laura French, Sarah Purdy, Marie Platten-burg, Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Schwass, Minna Loeber, C. Danaher.
6th Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Amy Jones, Rebecca Neteler, Agnes Brown, Eleanor Thomas. Marv Casey. Lulu We'Is.
2d Div.—Miss*>s Johanna Baroux, Agnes McKinnis, Lucie, Chilton, Julia Kingsbury. Catharine Lloyd,-Annie Orr, Mary Feehan, Martha Doxey, Elise Dallas, Maud Casey, Mary Garrity.	'
7th Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Tam, Mary McFadden, Margaret Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford.
8th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary, Blanche Garrity.	'
9th Class—Misses Minna Fisk, Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Martha Zimmerman, Manuelita Chaves.
Harp—Miss Galen.
Organ—Miss Criep.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Geiser. Clara Silvertborn, Minerva Spier, Theresa Walters. ’
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Leota Buck, Louisa Neu.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.	•
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Agnes Brown, Genevieve’ Winston, Catharine Hackett, Clara Silverthom, Adella Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Alice Farrell, Anna Woodin, Aurelia Mulhall.
5th Class—Misses E'eanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath, Sarah Purdy, D“lla McKerlie, Angela Ewing. Henrietta Hearsev, Emma Shaw, Mary Sullivan, Annie Jones, Mary English, Mary Birch, Charlotte Van Namee, Eleanor Thomas, Mary. Casey, Zoe Papin, Leota Buck.	'
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
.	HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3d Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Hope Russell, Teresa Killelea, Elizabeth Schwass, Angela Dillon, Laura French,Ellena Thomas, Jessie Grover, Julia Butts, Minna Loeber, Julia Kingsbury,'Mary Campbell, Catharine Campbell, Aurelia Mulhall, Maud Casey, Sophie Papin.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses Leota Buck, Sallie Hambleton, Marie Plattenburg.
OILPAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sarah Moran, Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Clara Silverthom, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Woodin, Rebecca Neteler, Anna Maloney, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Aurelia Mulhall, Zod Papin, Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Leota Buck, Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston. Catharine Ward, Catharine Danaher, Annie Rvan, Mary Sullivan, Louisa Neu, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Jessie Grover, Theresa Walters, Mary Usselman, Henrietta Rosing, Henrietta Hearsey, Adella Geiser, Margaret McNamara, Angela Dillon, Emma Gerrish, Anna Cartwright. Annie Jones ,Margaret Whelan, Mary Mullen, Minerva Loeber, Ellena Thomas, Julia Kingsbury, Catharine Wells, Alma Moe, Mary Tam, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig, Mary Campbell, Anna Herman, Teresa Zahm, Della McKerlie, Annie Purdy, par excellence. Misses Ellen McGrath, Marv Birch, Mary Casey, Sarah Hambleton, Annie Cavenor, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Lucie Chilton, Julia Barnes, Ina Capelle, Mary Hake, Frances Sunderland, Genevieve Sunderland, Alice Hiltman.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Marie Dallas, LindaFox
82
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Charlotte Van Namee, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Mary Lyons, Maud Casey, Sophie Papin, Mary Chirhart, Elise Papin, Mary Poquette, par excellence. Misses Mary Feehan, Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn, Elise Dallas, Blanche Garrity, Julia Butts, Mary Garrity, Jane McGrath.
St. Mary’s Icademy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
E^* The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Paintin g or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC O'O'CrTCTsT-AX.
quoted fa the ^onor of the fcsed trgtn,
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LATE HOLYFATHER PIUS II, CONFIRMED BYPOPE LEOXHI And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Mabia may be mentioned	•
Aubrey de Veee,	Gbace Ramsay,
Henbi Lassebbe,	Anna H. Dobsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanob C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Authob of “Christian Schools and Scholabs.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TEBMS:
One Year.........................................$ 2 50
Five Years........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each)...20	00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MABIA,’’
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company
39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.	. .
ARTIIUTt J. STACK [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THK CATHODIC CJOEUMETAN’. published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabkb, of ’70.
THK AVK M ARIA, a Catholic Journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscrip ion price, §2.50.
Hotels.
mHE BOND HOUSK, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-_L igan. Free Hack to and from ail Trains for Guests of the House.
THK MATTESON ELOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
ED WARD I®. UZLYDTN", Plain and Fancy Book-hinder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
QR C ATjTjTPfG- CARDS—no two alike, with name ZiO neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
QK CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address	'
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BRO vV W At HAR VjblY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPKKR «£: MITCHKKL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
f I UtiONI AS 33. CljlJb’Jfc ’ORD, [of ’62] Attorney at L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
WANNING <fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 74], At-JD torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, DI.
TOHN E. McHUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office U 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGK Jk DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm. W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVIKKE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61) Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIdE <fc NIIT/IjABiT) (Jas. E. McBride, of 68), Att’ye at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
W^EIAMJ. CL ARKE (of ’74). Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
T-^\?-ESA. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney,at Law eJ 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
3). MoOORMICK—of ’73—Attorney at Law tJ and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DAWIEE 33. HIBBARD, Jr., (ef ’70). Circuit Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold
Street, Detroit, Michigan.	i<p 14-ly
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
S3
Michigan Central Railway
- Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		♦Kal. Accom.	+Atlantic Express.	tNight Express. 19 00 p m 1 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
Lv. Chicago	 u Mich. City.. M Niles 			7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12T33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 ’ “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “		4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	
“ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit							
				♦Jackson Express.		
						
	•Mail	♦Day Express.			tPacific Express.	^Evening Express.
				5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “			9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6.20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and Soutli Bend Division.						
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 “	6 38 Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “			♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “			
♦Sunday excepted. +Daily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.						
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. K. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No. 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, I Night Ex.	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 PM.	9.00 AAC.	1.50 PAC.	6.00 A M.
Rochester,		12.53 A.M.	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,					3.10 “	12 50 pat.	535 “	1100 “
Orrville,'		4.45 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 pac.
Mansfield,				7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,'.	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 pac.	
Forest,		9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,.’		10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 A.M.	
Ft.Wayne,		1.30 PAT.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “		
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia.- Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets ; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets. ' For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Huc,hitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Mana'ger, Chicago.
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave	9.10 PAC.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,		2.46 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6.55 “	2.10 PAT.	11.35 “	
Lima,				8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 *	
				
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 pac.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,				2.26 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	1120 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 a.m.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex^ cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palack Cam from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F R. MYERS, G. P. & I. A
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566
CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS. 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largeat and fattest on the Atlantic.	•
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
- JOHN G. DALE, Agent, 15 Broadway, Naw York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
foreign Exchange and Panage Agent,
oct5-tf ZLa Porte, Indiana.
84
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
University of Notre Dame, ITTZDI-A-jST.^-Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Bev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Ttonte to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave, Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 a.m. ‘ 4 00 p.m Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m. 9 45 a.m
Night Express....................10 00 p.m.	6 30 a.m
A. M. SMITH, A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
’ Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City: nd Denver Express via Jack- .
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............-...............7	30 am 9 00 pm
Peoria Day Express......................3 40 pm	9 00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am	9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm	9 00 am
Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm	-12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation....................9 20 am	5 00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
PROPRIETOR OF THE -
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St.. Maty’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
-	■ P. SHICKEY. -
H. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m. .
1X 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 10 10 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
X 2 X 6 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
41 50 and 4 pm, Way Freight.___
GOING WEST.
3 4L3 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4t 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40;
Chicaco, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.	‘
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 36, 187*7 .
Northward Trains.	No. 5* Peru and Meh. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W.,Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		6.10 P. ST 8.30 “ 9.25 “	12.25 p. sr. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 a. sr. 9.52 “ 10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte*	 “ Michigan City		9.30 P. sr. 11.27 “ 12.55 “ 1.40 A. sr.		11.02 A. sr. 1.07 p. sr. 2.35 “ 3.20 “
No. 2.	No. 4.	No. 6. Southward Trains. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. Chicago and Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex. Meh. City Ex. & Detroit Ex.			
Lv. Michigan City.. “ La Porte		9.35 a. sr. 10.25 p. sr. 11.47 “	■	8.05 p. sr. 8.55 A. sr.
“ Plymouth			10.33 “
Ar. Peru		1.40 “	12.35 “
12.40 A. ST.
1.45 “
4.00	“
Lv. Peru.........
“ Kokomo.........
“ Indianapolis....
6.10 A. ST.
7.05	“
9.35	“
Palace Sleeping Cars are attached to trains leaving Indianapolis at 6.10 p. m., Michigan City at 8.05 p. m. Passengers may remain in the Sleeping Cars during the day.
F.	P. Wade,	■ V. T. Malott,
G.	P. & T. A., Indianapolis. Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
INFORMATION AVANTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, aged about 18 years.
Was a Minim in 1864and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, Hl.; afterwards in St Louis. Mo.
Please address,	“ The Scholastic.”
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CL ARK ST., opposite Shennaii House,
.	Chicago, Illinois.