f
Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Dlsce quasi semper vlctnrTis; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 7, 1880.
Number 22.
The Paragrapher.
He cometh, he cometh! We see his crest
Agleam on the sunrise hill;
He blithely sings of the joy of things, This knight of the trenchant quill.
He has mounted a pun of fiery blood;
He is riding an error down, And it bites the dust, as we knew it must, While a laugh goes over the town.
He is full of quips; he is full of cranks, And his eye is a wine-cup of fun;
He will make you laugh at a paragraph, And roar at a wicked pun.
His lance is made of joke-wood tough, . That is tipped with balm, or strong To tickle your ribs with resistless squibs, Or pierce the heart of a wrong.
He sunders the bars of a prison of doubt
By the aid of a verbal saw,
While he pulls up the weeds of a garden of reeds, Or lampoons your mother-in-law.
The dragon he seeketh is ghastly Care,
Which he wounds, but cannot destroy; -And the holy grail of his knightly tale
Is the cup of human joy.
Keep up, bold knight I there is much to do
In this battle-life of ours:
There is wrong that fears your contagious jeers, And shrinks from your garland of flowers.
There is gloom that would rather mope and sigh;
There is vice that would rather sin;
There are doughty men of the tongue and pen Whose smile is a devilish grin.
Rest not from your labor; but smite them all With your gleaming paragraphs, . (Hurra! hurra!) while the loud guffaw
Chimes in with the gentler laugh.
—Wm. T. Talbott in Washington “ Capital."
—By the harbor of New London there was once a long old rope-walk, with a row of square window-holes fronting the water. In time of war a British Admiral was cruising off that coast, and had a very good chance to enter and destroy the town. He was once asked afterward why he did not do it. He replied he should have done so “if it had not been for that formidable long fort whose guns entirely commanded the harbor.” He had been scared off by the old rope-walk.
Wild Flowers.
“Beautiful children of the woods and fields!
That bloom by mountain streamlets ’mid the heather, ■ Or into clusters ’neath the hazel gather,
Or where by hoary rocks you made your builds, And sweetly flourish through summer weather, ‘	I love ye all!”
Soon again the earth will be clothed in its fair mantle of green, sparkling with floral gems of most brilliant colors and radiant in their beauty. To all of these fair creatures we extend a gladsome greeting; but a few, our especial favorites, we hail with delight, as most welcome objects of loveliness.
“First comes the pansy, quite early in spring, With beautiful spots, like a butterfly’s wing; Sitting down on the soil with an elegant grace, It lifts up its round cheeks to laugh in your face.”
Reader, did you ever stop to tjiink of the beauties of floral nature ? If not, I would invite you to contemplate for a moment these little wonders of mountain, hill and dale. I will lead you in spirit to the bank of a rippling brooklet, where often I drank in the rich perfume of the flowers that cluster around its edge, and where I often mused for hours in the contemplation of the beauties and delicacies of things most lovely and most innocent which God has given to man for his enjoyment, till my spirit gradually wandered from the creature to the Creator, and unconsciously lost itself in the perfume of silent prayer. Yes, God is nearest to man in solitude!—Nunquam minus solus, quam cum solus.
Here then we are in a most delightful spot. There is the brooklet and its water rippling on to be lost in the absorbing waters of the St. Joseph. It is a picture of the soul of man lost in the contemplation of his God. Walk gently, a person unconsciously says to himself, or you will crush the head of the humble violet. There she is, so lovely in her humble station. But look at those eyes; they tell of the heaven within her breast, and allure to their group the wise ones, who bow to that virtue, which seeks not the praises of the crowd. In the language of flowers, the violet means “I think of thee.” Who thinks of me? you may ask her, and with a blush she will answer: “He who created me and gave me being.” What a beautiful thought! These humble creatures tell us at every step: “ God thinks of thee.” And we, do we always love God • in return ? To think of one is to love him, and love begets love. Another name sometimes given to the violet is that of Heart’s-ease, and the poet Herrick beautifully describes the origin of this name:
“Frolic virgins once these were, Over-loving, living here;
336
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Being here their ends denied Ran for sweethearts mad, and died. Love, in pity of their tears, And their loss of blooming years, For their restless here-spent hours, Gave them Heart’s-ease turn’d to flowers.”
But, dear reader, let us not stop so long at one flower, else we shall scarcely see half of our favorites. Here, hidden away among the shrubbery, is, of all the favorites, the one which occupies a place in my heart, set apart to itself alone—it is the beautifully painted Trillium. Botanists call it Trillium erythrocarpum. With its three wide-spreading green leaves, and above those three smaller sepals, enclosing, as if for protection the three large snowywhite petals, ruffled on the edge, and painted with most delicate lines of pink down to their very base; it is indeed such a very vision of loveliness as must be seen to be fully appreciated and understood.	-	-
By the side of this species of Trillium grows the no less interesting “Trillium grandiflorum.” True, it is not so handsome as its peerless sister, but yet it is no less interesting to many, and there are some who would champion its beauty. It has qualities that place it far above other flowers: for as other flowers grow older, they decay and gradually lose their splendor; but the Trillium grandiflorum or “White Wake Robin” grows prettier with the advancing days of its bloom. In its earliest stage it is robed in the purest white; after a time, this cheery little being for reasons unknown blushes all over with a beautiful rose-pink color. These flowers are sometimes called the wild lilies; and since they are so lovely in their simplicity it was not without good reason that we were commanded by Him “ who doeth all things well ” to “ consider the lilies.”
As I proposed to narrate the flowers in order, as favorites, we must return to a time earlier in the season than that in which our three-named favorites grow.
Scarcely has the snow left the ground, when the little “Liverwort,” the “Hepatica triloba,” peeps out from the ground, with its beautiful large blue eyes opened wide in astonishment at not seeing any others of their family around. Every year I hail them as the first children of Mother Flora, and so firmly rooted is my attachment to them that I never like nor care about seeing any flower, unless I have seen and enjoyed this one first Last year I was living where this flower does not grow, and I could take no interest in other flowers till I received some Hepatic® sent by a friend.
“Beautiful nurslings of the early dew, Fanned in your loveliness by every breeze, And shaded o’er by green and arching trees, I often wished that I were one of you, Dwelling afar upon the grassy leas.
I love ye all!”
What is more lovely than the delicate “ Spring Beauty,” so true to its name ? I doubt whether among all the flowers there is one more delicate in texture and growth than this fair child of early spring. See it reclining with drooping head, its tiny stem scarcely strong enough to support it! But much the lovelier it is. Its petals are simply wonderful. You cannot imagine anything more delicate in texture and color. Gazing fixedly at it, a person would imagine that now and then a light rose-colored blush suffuses the pale cheeks of the lovely creature, making it still more charming. Botanists call this flower “ Claytonia Virginica,” be-
cause an early botanist by the name of Clayton first described some specimens found in Virginia.
The little white Meadow-Rue with its umbles of numerous flowers, is also generally regarded with favor, and the County Surveyor says that its leaves are already above ground. Then there is also the Wood Anemone, known for its loveliness and delicacy of color, for it may be found from a pure spotless white to a rose-colored purple. I will not speak of the “Sweet little Buttercups,” for that is rather dangerous, but in spite of their acidity they have gained even a pinaforical renown. Those who like the yellow color find in the “Tall Buttercup,” Ranunculus acris, a very beautiful, and to the botanist, very interesting flower. As we advance in the season, up comes Sweet Columbine; a more interesting and curious flower it would be hard to find. Then in May we will always visit one spot in the vicinity where grows the balmy “Trailing Arbutus,”—Epigaea repens. The flowers appear to be made of pure white wax, and the perfume they emit is so rich that their presence may be known almost a mile off. Soon also will appear the Painted Cup, a plant most curious to examine. What the common people take for the flowers are but the scarlet-colored leaves of the spiked blossoms, which are so thick on the stalk that they will completely hide the real flowers, which are of a red-yellowish tint.
That true lover of the beauties of nature, Thoreau, has somewhere said, “I enter a swamp as a sacred place, a “sanctum sanctorum.'1' This at first may seem absurd, but yet ask any botanist and he will tell you that there he finds his most interesting objects during a certain season of the year. Here is the home of the brilliant scarlet “ Cardinal Flower,” and the scarcely less beautiful large blue “ Cardinal Flower.” Here, too, we find the “ Galla palustris” a near relative of the “Ethiopian Galla,” so universally known and esteemed. It always takes up its abode in the wettest part of a swamp, but the botanist is not satisfied with looking at it from afar.
I wonder how many stop to think of the many means we have at our disposal when unexpected difficulties are in our way ? How easily we can lift heavy logs and roll them in position with comparative ease, over which we betake ourselves with careful steps, laughing to scorn the greeneyed water-snakes, toads, frogs, and every creeping thing so abundant in swamps. At last we arrive at the place; one fair grasp, and we hold the price of our labor in our hand as a sign of our triumph over the difficulties we had to overcome. Here are also the haunts of the Flower de Luce, or beautiful-Blue-Flag.
It is true what one of our Amerian botanists says: “ The flower is the standard of beauty.” So it has ever been re- -garded. Through this attribute, so evidently divine in-its origin, it breathes on the heart an influence which is essentially spiritual, always pleasing, elevating and pure.
“Beautiful things ye are, where’er yon grow !
The wild red-rose—the speedwell’s peeping eyes— Our own blue-bells—the daisy that doth rise Wherever sunbeams fall or winds do blow And thousands more of blessed forms and dyes.
I love ye all.”
What lessons of great importance can we not learn from flowers? Humility from the Violet; remembrance from the dear Forget-me-not. Ah yes! At night when all looks dreary and lonely, I can still remember the hour when, a
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	337
child, I first picked some of these flowers and brought them home to a fond mother, now in heaven.
Her blossoms soon were faded.
Will we remain the same?	'
* My eyes in tears are bathed When thinking of her name. The lonesome hours of ev’ning To me recall my lot,
’ But yet to me she’s whisp’ring Her name,—“Forget-me-not.”
Ah.no! How could a child forgetitsmother? And ye, little tongues on my lonely walks, keep calling to me: “ Forget-me-not.”
A flower somewhat similar in name to the one just mentioned is “ Touch-me-not,”—Noli me tangere. This flower is the emblem of the virtue of purity, which, like this Noli me tangere, is destroyed by the least touch.
From the Ivy we may learn a lesson of hope; for it’s color—green—is the emblem of hope, and it never loses this color, it indicates that we also should never lose hope.
The Lily typifies also purity; for as the flower is soiled by the least touch, so also is that virtue.
Sharp Master Thistle teaches us not to be too piercing and cutting in our remarks, and therefore is an emblem of charity, and people who are addicted to sharp criticism should represent to themselves that their criticism is like rolling their victim in a bed of thistles. The Monk’s-hood teaches us the consequences—neglect—if we fold, like it, a cowl round our cynical head, and scowl darkly at every one.
But of all the flowers, the Rose teaches us the most beautiful lessons. I can never forget a beautiful poem I once read. It is from the able pen of M. A. Stoddardt. A father addresses his son thus:
“Go forth, go forth, my child, and bring
A blushing rose of early spring;
Bring me the flower I love to view, All glist’ning with the early dew.”
The boy leaves home, and soon finds a most beautiful rose, but instead of returning at once to his father, he grasps the rose in eager hands, and, delighted with its perfume, breathes it in—
“ Forgetful that its beauties pass Even as the dew upon the grass.”
Already the sun ascends the sky, and the birds begin their gladsome songs, and farther and farther the thoughtless child is roaming—
“ A-nd when at last he seeks his home, He meets his father’s eye with dread, For lo! the rose he culled is dead.”
Then what a beautiful lesson the poet draws from this circumstance:
“ A voice, dear children, speaks from heaven, ‘ Let thy young heart to God be given.’
And can you waste your freshest hours;
Ane then, when every joy is o’er, When vanity can please no more, Your worn-out heart to Jesus bring, A worthless, idle offering!
List to the words of changeless truth,
Think on the Lord in days of youth, The rose you yield will bloom more bright, . And glow at last in realms of light.” ’
And from the fact of the persistence of the perfume of the rose after its leaves have faded, withered, and even died, the poet Watts teaches:
“ Not to be proud of youth nor beauty, Since both of them wither and fade.”
How full of lessons nature is, but how .few care to listen to that silent tongue speaking so eloquently to the student of nature!
Yes—“ Beautiful children of the glen and dell— The dingle deep—the moorland stretching wide, And of the mossy mountain’s sedgv side!
Ye o’er my heart have thrown a lonesome spell;
And though the worldling, scorning, may deride, I love ye all!”
A. M.K.
Paternal Advice to Young Ladies.
BY ONE WHO FEELS LIKE A FATHER TO THEM.
Now, girls, it’s leap year; but don’t get perfectly frantic on that account. Don’t propose to every man you meet. In particular, beware of men with parallel veins. They are apt to be monocotyledonous, or at least monotonous. Avoid, also, the Capoul Bang. You will find all men more or less under physiological influence. The impulsive man acts according to his heart, the choleric man according to his liver, and the conscientious man according to his lights. By a careful study of human nature yon may make life interesting in a number of ways. I will give a few recipes for agreeable surprises:	.
No. 1.—The Floral Umbrella.
Carefully borrow the umbrella of an active business man, who will be sure to forget whom he has lent it to. Invert and open it. First, place therein a layer of finely powdered chalk, about an inch deep—then the same amount of charcoal. Then fill up with nice rich earth from the garden, carefully sifted. Sow with calceolarias, scolopendriums, and other elegant plants according to fancy. Hang up in a bay window, where there is plenty of air and sunlight, and water every morning before sunrise. When the umbrella is fairly ablaze with georgeous blossoms invite the proprietor in to see it Ask him with a gush of enthusiasm, if the paltry shelter it affords from a passing shower is to be compared with the satisfaction derived from such a resplendent spectacle. Quote Virgil:
Nocte pluit totA Redeunt spectacula mane.
If he is still unconvinced, and turns huffy,—for some people always will be so coarse, you know,—soothe him by telling him you are sorry he feels so bad about it, but it can’t be helped now, as the umbrella is no longer capable of being put to its normal use, and so he might as well be satisfied. As he waltzes off, call Mary Jane to peep out through the blinds with you, and watch the enraged contortions of his retreating figure. It will amuse both of you, and you can keep the umbrella besides.
No. 2.—The Utilized Boots.
’ Collect all the boots that your brothers leave lying about —so slouchy, you know—and carefully cut the upper leathers into strips, each about three inches long, and a quarter of an inch thick. If old boots cannot be found, new ones will do as well, but perhaps would tend to family jars. Then take your strips and lay them side by side, uniting them with, stout twine so as to form a sort of fringe. Anoint them with castor oil, assafcetida and Indian red according to taste, and exhibit them to enquiring friends as specimens of Zulu ornaments sent to you by your uncle in South Africa. If you find that they swallow it greedily—the story, not the fringe—you can excite further admiration, not unmingled with awe and affright, by
338
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
stating that the daubs of Indian red are blood-stains—blood of the Prince Imperial, in fact. An ordinary visit may be relieved of its usual dulness by an imaginative by-play of this kind, and it’s much better than gossiping about one’s neighbors, anyhow.
A few more recipes will be published from time to time, and we shall be glad to hear from any young lady who has used these successfully. If unsuccessful, write, enclosing three-cent stamp for further directions.
Grakdisnort.
Criticism on “The Travels of an Irish Gentleman in Search of a Religion.”
[A young lady being asked her opinion of the abovenamed book, written by the poet Moore,—who, like Pope, was no doubt made a target for proselytism by some of his many non-Catholic friends, and probably wrote this book as the result of the examination he made in compliance with their request—has sent the following review of the work to a friend at Notre Dame.]
Mr. Moore begins his search for a religion in a systematic manner. He desires to find the best Protestantism, and looks for it in the first ages; but the original of the Protestant creed is not to be found there. By appealing to theleadiug Fathers he sees that the doctrine of the Church, as regards tradition, primacy of the successors of St. Peter, satisfaction by penitential works, prayers for the dead, invocation of the Saints and of the Blessed Virgin, etc., is the same now as it was during the lives of those learned writers.
Moore treats well the Catholic doctrine respecting Purgatory. The Scriptures and reason are both appealed to with success. He quotes Paley, in saying that the mind of man, seeking some resource from the thought of the eternal punishment to which we might be condemned by a God everlastingly just, finds this resource only in the thought, “ that some temporal punishment after death may purify the soul from its moral pollutions, and make it, at last, acceptable, even to a deity infinitely pure.” In speaking of the necessity of this purification, he says that “it was maintained by St. Hilary (and Origen seems to have been of the same opinion) that after the day of judgment all— even the Blessed Virgin herself— inust alike pass through this fire to purify them from their sins.” An opinion for which we cannot account. We believe the Blessed Virgin to have been free from both original and actual sin. Why then should she, whose body was never even allowed to suffer corruption, be condemned to the punishment of the guilty?
In the earlier ages of the Church, the doctrines of the Blessed Eucharist, of the Trinity, and of the Incarnation, were concealed by the faithful from the uninitiated; even the catechumens, though calling themselves Christians, were ignorant of these mysteries. Many of the Fathers withheld all explanation of them, through fear of exposing the holy mysteries to sacrilegious profanation. Non-Catholics have tried to take advantage of this process of concealment, known as the “Discipline of the Secret.” They imagine, also, that they obtain a glimpse of Protestantism in the use made by some of the Fathers of the words type, sign, and figure, when referring to the Blessed Eucharist. That these words were sometimes used in an ambiguous manner is admitted; but thecause
must be referred to the Discipline of the Secret. Besides, the Fathers have given plenty of written evidence (which was always perfectly understood by the faithful) that their belief was wholly orthodox.	.
The early writers give explicit evidence of their belief in the Real Presence, and in the Blessed Trinity; but Protestants always persist in wilfully overlooking this evidence. They endeavor, with a few a passages, which the writer himself intended to make obscure, to refute all the testimony the Catholic Church can bring forward to prove that her doctrine has never changed. The many absurdities committed by private interpreters of the Scriptures are exposed, and the author cites an instance in the public life of our Lord as one of the proofs that He paid no “deferenceto human doubts and judgments,” that He gave us as guides faith and authority, not reason and private interpretation. The instance cited is taken from St. John, chap, vi, where it is shown that our Lord made no attempt to explain the meaning of His words to those of His hearers who said: “ How can this man give us His flesh to eat?" No; He only confirmed His first assertion, saying: “Verily, verily I say unto you, unless you eat of the Flesh of the Son of Man, and drink His Blood, ye shall not have life in you.”
To a thinking mind, one in search of truth, and nothing else—no persuasion, no softening down of what at first appears difficult to believe, is necessary. Such a mind seeks the truth until it is found, then loves and embraces it for its own sake, not for the sake of the dress it may wear. Of this, we feel sure Mr. Moore was convinced; for throughout his work he places facts in their clearest light, and lets them speak for themselves. It must, however, be remarked, that there area few exceptions to the rule given above. Mr. Moore occasionally forgets his role of would-be Protestant, and we find him defending with all the ardor of a most zealous Catholic the dqctrines and practices which he fears will meet with the greatest opposition. The arguments he sees fit to employ are strong and convincing. In all its parts this work shows how thorough was the research. It is written in a style unaffectedly simple, and this constitutes one of its principal charms. The wit and sarcasm, are of such a nature that they do not appear out of place; on the contrary, being skilfully employed, they add much to the value of the work. Sarcasm especially, is most effectively employed.
There are few subjects which Moore has treated that show off to better advantage his keen sarcasm and ready wit, than the account of the early heresies and the Reformation. In many of the heresies, particularly among the Gnostic Sects, Moore finds all the Protestant doctrines he would desire. He was unwilling to receive Protestantism, anxious as he was to find it, from those “ who believed in two Gods, two Saviours, and a material Holy Ghost,” so he turns again from the heretics—including Simon Magus and his Calvinistic doctrines—to the orthodox, still in hopes of finding some trace of Protestantism among the Fathers. They, however, give him no authority for the doctrines of election and reprobation, the slavery of the will, the inefficacy of good wooks, and the inability of man to do the will of God. These doctrines are to be found in the dif’ ferent heresies against which the Church has had to combat from the first century. They are characteristic also of the Reformation.
Moore’s acccount of the Reformation is comprehensive, yet concise. Luther establishes, or rather advocates the • \
4
339
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•	4
A
1.
so-called right of “private judgment,” and after this, there is no limit whatever to the absurdities committed by his reforming followers. Countless sects have sprung up, dif-ering from one another in every other respect, but clinging persistently to the right to judge for themselves regarding the word of God,—that word which Holy Writ itself declares “ is hard to.be understood,” and which “ the unlearned unstable wrest to their own perdition ” (2d Epistle of St. Peter, iii, 16). Moore notes, then, the progress of Rationalism, the uncertainty of the Scriptures without the aid of Tradition and the guidance of the Church—that only true Church—which Christ promised to be with “ all days.” There alone can be found peace and rest; all outside is darkness and uncertainty.	R. H.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The noble Earl is Dun-raven in the N K Herald.— Pilot.
—The officers of Christ Church, Alexandria, Va., are endeavoring to sell the Bible used by Gen. Washington.
—The Marquis of Lorne is reputed to be greatly interested in the establishment of a Canadian Academy of Fine Arts.
—The Cross of Grand Officer of the Order of the Star of Roumania has been conferred upon M. Emile de Girardin, the eminent French journalist.
—Mr. 0 wless, A. R. A., has now completed one of the two portraits of Cardinal Newman which he is painting for Oriel College, Oxford, and the Birmingham Oratory.
—The library soon to be established in connection with the Grosvenor Gallery, in London, will have reading, writing, dining and cloak-rooms. Sir Coutts Lindsay is the projector and proprietor.
—Richard Wagner, the composer, has arrived with his family at Naples. His health is announced to be improving. He intends remaining in Naples till the middle of May, when he will return to Bayreuth.
—Popular singers in Loudon get a considerable part of their income by performing in the drawing-rooms of wealthy families, as much as §700 being paid to Nilsson and Patti for a few songs on such an occasion.
—A Japanese publisher recently printed in his native country an edition of the book of Genesis in the Chinese language—the first publication of any portion of the Scriptures ever allowed by the Japanese Government.
—A canonry, without cure of souls, has been granted by the Chapter of Albano to the celebrated composer and musician, Abbe Franz Liszt. Cardinal Prince Hohenlohe performed the ceremony of the induction in the Basilica at Albano.
—Said a gentleman to Douglas Jerrold one day: “Mr. Jerrold, I understand that you have told Mr. ---that my last book was the worst I ever wrote.” Whereupon the acrimonious wit cuttingly replied: “ No: I did not; I told him it was the worst book anybody ever wrote.”—Ex.
—We learn with pleasure that the Rev. Dr. Bernard O’Reilly, so favorably known as the author oi “ Mirror of True Womanhood,” “ Heroic Women of the Bible,” etc., is engaged upon a new work entitled “Angela de Merici and the Ursuline Order.” It will be ready in May.—Ave Maria.
—We see in The Ave Maria a very complimentary notice of The Art Amateur (Montague Marks, publisher, 571 Broadway, New York) from the pen of Eliza Allen Starr, an artist of high repute and an art critic of fine discernment and almost severe taste. This is the second favorable notice of the same publication we have seen from “E. A. S.” in The Ave Maria, at long intervals, circumstances which tend to show no ordinary degree of merit.
—Of Mr. Tennyson, whose personal appearance is somewhat Byronic, a story is told, which would be good if it were certainly true. He is said to have been staying with
a friend in Paris, and one day asked his companion, who was going out, to tell the porter at the lodge not to let the fire go out, which in French is, Ne laiesez pas adder le feu. His friend’s French, however, was of a mediocre quality to say the least, so that his orders to the porter assumed the form of Ne laissezpas aider le foul enunciated with much demonstrative gesticulation. When Tennyson, soon afterward, wanted to go out, he found the door of his room guarded by two stalwart men who refused to let him pass. The wilder Tennyson grew, the more convinced, of course, were the men that he was a dangerous lunatic, and resisted all his attempts to escape, till the unlucky friend came back, and the error was explained.
Scientific Notes.
—Cincinnati’s Zoo has 311 mammals, 469 birds, and 50 reptiles.
—The British Museum contains more than 200 cinerary urns, excavated from nearly 200 tumuli by the Rev. Canon W. Greenwell.
—A prize of £200 has been offered by the Rev. E. Wyatt Edgell, through the Sanitary Institute of Great Britain, for the best essay, that may be sent in by Aug. 1 next, on “The Cause of Hereditary Tendencies in Health and Disease.”
—Dr. McCaw suggests the following formula as one not generally known for an antidote to arsenic, and claims for it preference over all others, for two reasons, namely, because it forms the surest antidote, and because the ingredients are always accessible: Tincture of chloride of iron, one dram;, bicarbonite of soda, or potash, the same; tepid water, a teacupful. These are mixed. The sesquioxide of iron is immediately formed in a solution of chloride of sodium. The mixture may be given almost ad libitum.
—The annual prize of 25,000 francs (§5,000), given by the King of the Belgians for works of a scientific character, is now offered for the year 1881. It will be awarded to the author of the best work on the means of improving seaports situated upon low and sandy coasts, such as the Belgian ports. Foreigners, as well as Belgian subjects, may compete. The works must be sent to the “ Mmisfore de 1’Inlerieur,” at Brussels, before Jan. 1 next The prize will be awarded by a jury composed of four foreigners and three Belgians, all of whom are nominated by his Majesty.
—Lieut. Seaton, U. 8. N., attributes the origin of the Desert of Sahara to the destruction of the forests with which the banks of the Saharan stream were once lined. The inhabitants, being a pastoral people, destroyed the forests to secure pasturage. “Consequent upon the destruction of the forests, the periodical rains were replaced by rare and short though violent storms, the waters from which, instead of soaking in as in past ages, slipped by on the rocky masses, carrying away the rich sortace-mold, and bringing about the drying of the springs,” and, as a direct consequence, of the rivers.
—A series of wonderful subterranean caves have recently been discovered in Virginia. Until a year ago, the Weyers, Madison and Fountain Caves were the largest known, but others of greater extent and vastly richer are now being discovered. About six miles southeast of Newmarket Station, in the foot-hills of the Massanutton range, on the farm of Mr. Reuben Zirkle, is one of unknown magnitude, explorations nearly a mile in length having been made without reaching the end. The height varies— reaching sometimes 50 feet Some of the incrustations of the walls are very brilliant. Some of the passages are narrow and crooked, and side passages diverge in every direction. The floors resound like a drum, indicating a thin crust and the exploration is attended with uncertainty, and perhaps danger.
—John Boyle O’Reilly, the editor of the Boston Pilot, in answer to a correspondent who asks if the days ot creation were twenty-four hours long, says: “No; they were not. We read in the Bible that in six days God created the heavens and the earth, and that on the fourth day He made the sun and the moon, to be for signs and for seasons,
340
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
for days and for years. The sun, then, is our standard for the computation of time. The earth revolves round its own axis once in twenty-four hours, producing day and night, and round the sun once in the year, producing "the four seasons; therefore, before the creation of the sun the days of twenty-four hours had no existence. But while the day by which we compute our year consists of twenty-four hours nearly, geology supplies unerring testimony that the pre-solar days mentioned in the Sacred Volume in connection with the creation, were each a period of vast duration.”	.
Exchanges.
—“The Soul—Its Existence and Immortality,” is the title of a learned paper contributed bv Joseph H. Young A. M., to the columns of The K. M.1. News, and just concluded in that journal.
—The Kenyon Advance for January has taken a step forward and upward, and is quite a readable number. “ Eighty-two,” a class poem, is good; the local matter livelier than usual, and the exchange notes few, but good.
—The January number of The Virginia University Magazine, under the auspices of the new editorial corps, is a meritorious one. The board that has just retired has left an honorable record, and the present one bids fair to continue that record and keep the magazine up to the high standard of literary excellence at which they found it.
—The Eudeian, published monthly by the Eucleian Literary Society of Kentucky Wesleyan College, is a new visitor to our scriptorium. We give it a cordial welcome, and comply with the request for an exchange. The leading article in the present number is an essay onHamlet.” If we remember rightly, this is the third essay on the same subject we have seen in our college exchanges during the last two months. If they keep on at this rate we will soon have hamlets enough to make a village. The essayists haven’t yet decided whether Hamlet was mad oi not. “A Plea for Boys” is a sensible and well-written article, and an essay on ‘‘The Theatre” has some sound sense in it. The locals are plentiful, pithy and pointed.
—We are glad to see that The Chimes, the handsome little weekly picture paper lately started in Baltimore for Catholic boj sand girls, is not only keeping up to the standard of its first number, but even improving. There are four large pages, filled with pictures, stories, poems, puzzles, parlor magic, legends, anecdotes of distinguished persons, etc., etc. Just the thing for young folks, and just the thing to keep out trashy papers. The parlor magic games are some of the prettiest and cutest we have ever seen. The publishers, Messrs. Wentworth and Reilly, hope soon to enlarge the paper, to put more pictures in it, etc. They deserve encouragement. Send for a specimen copy of The Chimes, P. O. Box 31, Baltimore, Maryland, or, better still, send a dollar for a year’s subscription and make the young folks happy.
—And now, that the holidays are over, college editors seem to have settled down to business again, judging from the way the exchanges come pouring in. They are welcome, one and all, and not the least of all, by any means, our bright and ably conducted contemporary The Amherst Student, with whose accomplished exchange editor we have lately had the honor of a little literary joust,— which of course does not in the least affect the sentiments of esteem in which we have held himself and his paper. He thought we were angry at his styling our paper a bigoted one,—notin the least; he thought so, no doubt, and spoke his feelings candidly, but that does not make it so. People will differ in opinion, but it would be foolish to lose one’s temper for such differences. The last number of the Student is superior to its immediate predecessors, although they were all readable even to externs, and some of them excellent The editorials are short and pithy; the poetry, “Erinne,” good; the essay on the “ The Wandering Jew,” very fair. Oui friend the exchange editor makes his department interesting, and the locals are more than usually so.
—The Georgetown College Journal contains some interest
ing reminiscences of old-time students, among others of ' old Prof. Clarke, of Baltimore (Edgar Allen Poe’s teacher) ’ now in his 89th year. Prof. Clarke’s daughters conduct the Fairview Academy, in the Monumental City. The exchange editor of the Journal slashes away at our friend of the College Message, unnecessarily, as far as we can see. Why . should not the editor of the Message correct some of the egregious blunders committed by the essayists of other col- ui lege papers, and if this privilege holds in regard to strictly literary matters, why not in regard to those of a religious nature ? Such ridiculous nonsense, for instance, as the state-	J
ments so frequently made that Catholics can or could have their sins pardoned for money, that the Church in the middle ages forbade the reading of the Bible, that 250,000,000 of Catholics are blind dupes of the priests, with no volition of their own, that the Church was and is the enemy of science, etc.? We see these assertions made every day, and evidently in good faith—are Catholics to stand by in silence, I without an occasional word of dissent, while, intentionally | or otherwise (otherwise, we hope, and believe) their faith is slandered ? We commend to the polite attention of our Georgetown confrere an article on “ The Revival of Learning ” in a neighboring journal, the Maryland Collegian for December. Of course if any acrimony be shown in writing on these matters all dispute should be dropped at once; but if gentlemen be in good faith, why should any harsh feelings creep in ?	*1
—The American Catholic Quarterly Review. Jan. 1880. Hardy & Mahony, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. Volume V. Number 17. The first article—“The Pretended Unity of Modern Philosophy ”— goes over again the old dreary ground so often travelled by those who would make metaphysical science independent of axioms and postulates. The perceptive faculties, with memory and common sense, seem to constitute a mental returning board, behind whose returns it is vain to go. When we get as far as “ cogito ergo sum" in an article of this kind, we invariably turn over _ what follows, and read the next. The next is entitled	.	’*
“Vocations to the Priesthood,” and we are glad to read the	’
common sense views expressed by the Right Reverend author. In times of emergency, when the necessities for .' sacred ministrations in a newly settled country were overwhelming, many of our young aspirants to Holy Orders • were hurried through their divinity course to the neglect of ' all branches of study that did not immediately bear upon . the duties of their holy calling. When cholera, yellow fever and diphtheria are summoning unshriven multitudes --- * before the tribunal at which the fate eternal of the sufferer is to be decided, there is little time to think of Greek or mathe- -matics. Blit these emergencies are to a great extent supplied, and we can fully appreciate the Bishop’s observation, -thet “the age demands that we should keep pace with ' whatever is good in progress, and this has always been the ’ mind of the Church, of which our Holy Father Leo XIII , is the exponent.”	:
“ Socialism at the Present Day ” goes back on old Adam Smith. The author seems to think that morality is nec- ' essary to happiness, but that Adam did not know this. _ ■	.
Perhaps Adam knew it as well as anybody else, but he also knew that when physical needs become rampant they must be attended to before anything in the moral order. • It is the old fable of the boy that was drowning while the j schoolmaster lectured on the folly of going into the water before you know how to swim. “ Save me first, and then preach!” is the cry of the famine-stricken as well as the drowning. The soul may be of vastly greater importance than the body, but when you no longer have a body, what can your soul do for itself?
“The Necessity of Infallibility” follows next. The writer, Dr. Daniel Gans, of Baltimore, is a recent convert. Dr. Gans possessed considerable weight as a writer while ’ a Protestant, and some of his works are still in use in the denomination which he left.
“ Archbishop Gibbons and his Episcopalian Critic Dr. -Stearns” follows, being a review of Dr. Stearns’s book, r which we have not read. If, as the writer of this article states, “a merely superficial glance at its contents is sufficient to dispel from any intelligent reader’s'mind the idea that Dr. Stearns’s book can even pretend to any just claim to being a refutation,” perhaps it is not worth reading. Archbishop Gibbons’s “Faith of Our Fathers” is a very
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	341

&
r
I
plain and unpretending exposition of what Catholics believe, and is too well known to our readers to need comment.
“ English Manners ” is an excellent article. The writer says “ it would be absurd to deny that there are in England such gentlemen as are not to be eclipsed in the whole world.” So it would. We always read the eclipses every year when the almanacs come out, and we never noticed such a thing in any of them yet.
“Is Froude a Historian?” asks the next writer. Shouldn’t he have asked “Is Froude AN Historian ? ”— also before words beginning with h sounded, when the accent is on the second syllable: as an heroic action, an historical account.—Reo. Peter Bullions' P. P. That’s as far as we read. We are sick and tired of Froude.
“Insanity as a plea for Criminal Acts ” is very enteresting. It turns on the question whether the punishment inflicted on criminals is vindictive or self-protective. If vindictive, the insane man must evidently go free, for a man in his senses would no more harbor revenge against an insane person than against a wild beast. But if the punishment inflicted on criminals is exclusively for the protection of society, then the insane man is the most punishable of all, because the most dangerous. But the popular mind will never get above the retributive notion of legal punishments. The article opens up interesting speculations regarding the intrinsic unity of the intellect and will.
“The Stack-O’Hara Case” is a review of the Report of R. P. Allen, Esq., Master in Chancery, with the Opinions of the Supreme Court, etc. The writer regrets the good old times “when judges were not chosen by the people because they happened to be members of this or that party, but appointed by the constituted authorities because they were known to be skilled in the law, honest and impartial men.” So do we.
“ Book Notices ’’close, as usual, the number. We think too much is made of Dr. Stearns’s book, which is again thoroughly reviewed among these. Whatever it is, it will not be read outside of the Dr.’s own literary circle. It will be handsomely bound, and will lie on the table in Episcopalian parlors, perfectly harmless. We wish we could say the same of “ Majolica and Fayence ” which will tend to assist the domestic fiend to daub up the said parlors, and others of all denominations, with the putty, paint and glue of the dread keramic mysteries. And yet, this pernicious book receives a favorable though brief notice from the American Catholic! We are glad to know that the excellent “ Five-Minute Sermons ” are the result of a plan originated by the late Algernon A. Brown, C. S. P. “ Algy ” was one of Notre Dame’s boys once. The notice of Maurice F. Egan’s “ Preludes ” is not as long as they deserve.
1
' CoHege Gossip.
—Kennedy trains the boat crew at Princeton.
—The Philadelphia college crew are training on the Schuylkill.
—The Harvard crew are training in their gymnasium at Cambridge.
—The Yale Glee Club cleared $750 in Chicago during their recent trip.—Ex.
—Richard A. Proctor, the astronomer, lectured at the University of Michigan Jan. 16th.
—Our librarian has in his possession a volume which has been-eaten through and through by book-worms. The title is “ The Reformation of Luther,” but the inside, he says, is the diet of worms.—Ex.
—Thomas Holloway, the wealthy patent medicine manufacturer of London, is erecting an institution for the higher education of girls. He will defray the entire expense of building the college himself, which will cost $1,385,000.— Ex.	_
—An Iowa young lady has won the distinction of being one of the first ladies admitted to the University of Leipsic. —Ex. So much honor for Iowa, but would it not be sad if the young lady had to lie-up-sick there, so far from home and friends ?
—The members of the Young Men’s Catholic Association of Boston College lately arranged for a reception to
the Rev. Robert Fulton, S. J., late rector of the college, to take place on Thursday, the Sth. The programme was to be an elaborate one.	■
—Scene betweenjProfessor and Freshman on Blake field: “ How dare you swear before me, sir ? ” Fresh.’ (triumphantly) “How did I know you wanted to swear first?” After the scene that ensued, the Freshman gathered himself up and silently stole away.—Amherst Student.
—Very Rev. Robert F. Whitehead, formerly Vice-President of Maynooth College, died Dec. 31st. The body was interred pn the 3d of January. The coffin was carried to the college door by the colleagues of the deceased and was thence borne by eight students to the college cemetery.
—“ Why are all the generous men so far from us,” asks The Chronicle. “ The other day a professor from the University of Virginia was in New York soliciting money for a new observatory and called on W. H. Vanderbilt. After a few minutes’ conversation he retired with a twenty-five dollar check in his possession.”
—W. H. Vanderbilt of New York has donated $25,000 to the University of Virginia for the erection of an observatory at that institution, in which to pl ace-the famous tele-' scope presented to the university some time since by Leander McCormick, late of this State. Mr. Vanderbilt’s contribution is made on the condition of securing a $50,000 endowment fund, $15,000 of which is already credit
—The Chronicle elections were held Jan. 31st The Independents elected were C. A. Towne and F. M. Townsend. The society men elected were Max Zinkheisen and Willis Boughton. Of the late board, A. J. Potter, managing editor, J. T. Ewing, editor of Various Topics, C. H. Campbell, Exchange editor, and F. F. Reed, editor Chronicle department, have retired. The late board has gained much credit by its management of the paper, and leaves it enjoying a high reputation. The Chronicle is one of the best and most regular of our exchanges. Our own board of editors was changed with the last number of the Scholastic.
—Mrs. Scott Siddons offended the faculty of Asbury University by reading with a low-necked dress on, and she was not a little startled to hear a prayer for her conversion called for in the prayer-meeting the next day. The Asbury folks deserve credit for the rebuke, and would have deserved still more by preventing the reading. If it be impolite for gentlemen to appear in the presence of ladies in their shirt-sleeves, or with their coat off, is it not much more improper, if not shockingly immodest, for ladies to appear in the presence of gentlemen scantily clad ? The rebuke given Mrs. Siddons is going the rounds of the papers, and will, it is to be hoped, have a beneficial effect on ladies possessed of more brass than modesty.
—There is no doubt that students, as a rule, are heartily opposed to co-education. This is especially true of Eastern colleges. There is a deep-seated aversion to the idea, that cannot be eradicated. And not the least consideration is the fact that all students are well aware of the dangers, temptations, and evils of college-life. They are determined that their sisters, whom they love and reverence, as redeeming the race, shall neither be exposed to, nor contaminated by, these evils. This instinct is a good and true one.- We shall struggle hard against any tendency to detract from innocence and purity, and shall discountenance everything that might debase that lofty old ideal that woman’s heart should be the shrine and exponent of modesty. —Trinity Tablet.
—The House Committee on Education and Labor has agreed upon a bill introduced by Representative Goode, which provides that the net proceeds of the sale of public lands shall be forever consecrated and set apart for the education of the people.—Eudeian. It is all right, we suppose, but we wonder if any of it will go towards rebuilding burned-down colleges ? If so, we presume the trustees of the University of Notre Dame should come in for a few thousand dollars to enable them to pay off their debt for rebuilding. If a first class educational institution burned to the ground without any fault of the inmates doesn’t deserve it, we should like to know what does. So far, we understand,—excepting a little from Chicago and South Bend —not a dollar has been received save some small private contributions. '
342
THE NOTRE DAJME SCHOLASTFC.
nine
Notre Dame, February 7, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Liter ary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents 'should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per A.nnum, Postpaid..
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—The percentages of all the students in their various classes were read to them in the rotunda on Saturday morning by the Rev. Director of Studies, in presence of a large number of the faculty and a few visitors. The percentages were altogether very satisfactory, and showed that the students made good use of their time during the last session. After the reading of the percentages Very Rev. President Corby made a few well chosen remarks, complimenting the students on the success which attended their efforts during the first term of the scholastic year, and exhorting them to continue their work during the next session with the same courage and earnestness as they had during the first. The students gave a hearty round of applause, and all retired. Recreation was granted for the day, which, it is needless to say, the boys enjoyed to their heart’s content after the trying ordeals of the previous week.
The New Session.
Already the first semester of the scholastic year is past, and the second has commenced.
In regard to the last session’s work we have everything of praise to say. The classes, as a whole, passed good examinations—many of them surprising both their teachers and examiners. This is encouraging, and augurs well for the success of the present session. Thus far the scholastic year of 1879-’8O bids fair to show a record of solid work and improvement, in all the departments that cannot be surpassed by any former year.
The semi-annual examination, which has just been held, has given the new students especially an idea of what is expected from them. An examination is simply a review
of the session’s work, and those students who do not study and improve their time as they ought need never expect to pass a successful examination. Then it is that laziness or indolence, whichever it may be, is rewarded, by students being put to the blush when standing before a board of examiners and not able to give a correct answer in regard to what they had been studying for five long months before. Still, it is never too late to mend, and those young men who now know what they should have acquired at the end of the first session can make considerable improvement by entering on the second session’s studies with a will—a determination to make up for what they have lost, and come out good at the June examination. This is very easily done; a firm determination is all that is needed for the accomplishment of the task.
How pleasing it is for students to feel at the end of the scholastic year that they have done their duty; that they have given satisfaction to their professors and instructors— and, best of all, that they have fulfilled the expectations of parents or guardians and may go home with an easy conscience, and be able unhesitatingly to say that the year just passed at college has been devoted to study and constant application, and has been a profitable one to them. We think there is nothing so inconsistent in a young man as laziness at school; and although Notre Dame is favored with very few of this class, yet it would be better if there were none. They are poor goods, and goods in which very few wish to take stock.
The very name student implies labor; hence, mental labor is absolutely necessary for the acquisition of knowledge. No man ever received his knowledge by inspiration. Labor is necessary for all—from the king to the peasant, from the lord to the vassal. We should think of this when tempted, or when inclined to remain idle. Idleness is the parent of poverty and cousin-german of every vice and bad habit
Let, then, those who wish tobecome men of tact, of education, of enterprise, learn to be industrious. Our college days are given us by God for this purpose for the reception and the putting into execution of this most noble trait of manly character. Let us then seize the opportunity thus afforded us, and all will be well.
The Exhibition.
The Entertainment given on last Tuesday evening by the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was one with which, we believe, all were pleased. This society is composed of the smallest and youngest boys in the college—the Minims. But though small and young, they acted their parts well, and had the matter so thoroughly memorized that no hesitation could be noticed on the part of any of the youthful participants; indeed we may say that they have won for themselves quite a reputation, as well as the applause and admiration of all present. A certain critic has said in regard to them: “ The parts could not have been taken better by any society in the college.”
The two plays rendered by our young friends were not of a heavy character—this could not be expected: they are not men—but children, and consequently everything had to be adapted to their capacity. Moreover, we believe that this is the first time this Society has appeared on the boards of Washington Hall. In view of these facts, then, we have everything of praise to say in regard to last Tuesday’s Entertainment.


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOOL A STI;C.	343
•	The exercises of the evening opened with a lively piece
from the University Cornet Band, which was followed by another soul-stirring piece from the University Quartette. The curtain then rose, and Master Harry Snee, accompanied by G. Tourtillolte, came forward and delivered the v address of the evening, in a pleasing and able voice.
Master Joe. Courtney followed, with a declamation, “ The Union,” which he delivered in a pleasing manner.
■ The next on the programme was a song by Masters Courtney and Snee, with accompaniment by the Seniors’ Orchestra. It received a well-merited encore. The prologue then followed—and a prologue it was, as to composition and delivery. During the brief interim, the Senior Orchestra discoursed a nice selection and ere the strains died away the curtain rose, and the second, part of the entertainment began.
The first play was entitled “New Brooms Sweep Clean.” D. Taylor, A. Coghlin, G. Woodson, G. Van Mourick, T. Van Mourick, A. Schmhckle and H. Snee took the principal parts in it. Capt. O’Neill's grand military drill was well * f received. We cannot refrain from making special mention of H. Snee’s song. It was perhaps the best thing of the ' evening, and elicited a thunder of applause.
The second part of the evening’s Entertaiament being concluded, the Senior Orchestra played some fine pieces, thus keeping itself up to the standard for which it is noted. “Hard to Suit All” was next introduced. Master J. Courtney took the leading character in a most creditable manner. Master H. Snee did also remarkably well, and we v may say the same of W. O’Malley, J. Smith, W. Wright, Jas. Courtney, J. Bannister, G. Knight, H. Kitz, and G r Woodson. In fact, all rendered their parts so well that we do not know which to praise. Some songs, etc., having now followed, the curtain fell, and President Corby arose and in a few well-chosen words thanked the wee young gentlemen for the creditable manner in which they ac*	quitted themselves, expressing himself highly satisfied with
, everything that took place. In fact, some, endowed with L	excellent judgment, confessed that they were agreeably
surprised, so that we think President Corby’s remarks are endorsed by all who were present, and we do not hesitate to say that in every respect the Entertainment was a ।	success.
But we almost forgot—we have said nothing about the director of this Society, Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., to whose painstaking care we mainly owe this treat. He deserves [	commendation for the excellent manner in which he
trained his boys and brought them upon the stage.
.	The Late Hon. S. S. Hayes.
>	It pains us to chronicle the death of the Hon. S. S. Hayes,
formerly City Comptroller of the City of Chicago, and father of Louis S. and Harold V. Hayes of the Class of ’74. ।	This good Christian gentleman died suddenly at his resi-
|	. dence in the above named city on the 28th ult., and in him
Chicago has lost one of her most influential citizens, a true . friend, an honorable gentleman, and one that for nearly half 5 a century had been identified with her interests, growth and ,	prosperity. In the death of Mr. Hayes, Notre Dame too
' f	has lost one of her best friends—a friend in need as well as
!	a friend in prosperity, as the prominent part he took in
<	the Chicago movement, set on foot last summer to relieve
i	Notre Dame in her troubles, and assist her to rise from
her ashes, abundantly shows.
With his family we condole in their sad bereavement, and earnestly wish that He who soothes all hearts, and calms all troubled souls, will not forget them in this their hour of trouble.
On Friday, January 30th, a special meeting of the common Council of the City of Chicago was held, at which Mayor Harrison presided. The meeting was called in order to sympathize with the members of the family of the deceased, and to draw up fitting resolutions. The resolutions submitted and adopted on this occasion are as follows:
Wherea.s this Council has been officially informed, of the death of our fellow-citizen, the Hon. 8. 8. Hayes: therefore,
Resolved, That we have received with deep sorrow the announcement of the death of oue who has been lor nearly thirty years an honored citizen.
Resolved, That our city has occasion to mourn the loss of one long identified with its government in different official positions, one whose rigid honesty and strict integrity was never questioned, and one whose conduct, in official and private life, was such as to endear him to all with whom he came in contact; active in all public affairs, again and again called upon to fill positions of great responsibility; an energetic, enthusiastic man, he devoted the best portion of his life to the advancement of the interests of Chicago.
Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family in this their hour of deep affliction.
Resolved, That this Council, as a mark of respect to the memory of 8.8. Hayes, attend his funeral in a body, and the Mayor be requested to close the various departments of the City Government on the day of the funeral.
Resolved, That these resolutions be placed upon the records of the Council, and a copy be sent to the family of the deceased.
Afterwards Aiderman Throop, Aiderman Wickersham and Aiderman Rawleigh spoke at length on the integrity, honorableness and goodness of the late Mr. Hayes, and put forth in glowing terms his love of country, his untiring zeal in promoting the interests of the city he loved so well, and in which he held most important offices for upwards of thirty years.
The students and friends of Notre Dame University who had the pleasure of hearing the words of golden counsel addressed to the Graduating Class of ’74, by the honorable and honored deceased, will not have forgotten them, nor the eloquence of the speaker; and now, scattered though the auditors be through various parts of the States, the family of the deceased have their heartfelt sympathy in their bereavement.	•	-
Mr. Hayes’s career is at an end, but he has left behind a name that will descend as a legacy to his family. He was an honorable and true-hearted gentleman in every sense of the term, and nothing remains for us now but to submit to the will of Divine Providence in depriving us of one most dear to Notre Dame.
Personal.
—J. Cullen (Commercial), ’75, is doing well at Lafayette Ind.
i/^C. and G. Ruger (Commercial), ’73-’4, are in business at Lafayette, Ind.
—R. McGrath(Commercial), ’75, is in business with his father at Lafayette, Ind.
J. Zahr (Commercial), ’70, is book-keeping for a wholesale house at Lafayette, Ind.
—J. P. McHugh, Class of ’78, is studying law with his brother, John H. McHugh, of'72, at Lafayette, Ind.
—J. McGinly, ’69, is associate editor of the Sunday Leader, a weekly newspaper published at Lafayette, Ind.
344
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. __________________________________________ >
—P. M. Tamble (Commercial), ’77, is studying for the Bar in the law office of General G. P. Thruston, Nashville, Tenn.
—Jno. T. Foley (Commercial), ’76, has succeeded to the business of his father, and is destined at no distant day to be one of the wealthiest merchants of Nashville, Tenn.
—We learn from the Indianapolis Journal, of Feb. 2d, that the Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., delivered an eloquent discourse before the Knights of Father Matthew of that city, at Washington Hall, on the evening of Feb. 1st. The Hall was crowded with a most attentive audience.
—On Wednesday last we had the pleasure of a visit from Mr. W. T. Mendenhall, M. E., Superintendent of the Chicago & Silver Cliff Gold and Silver Mining Co. Mr. Mendenhall is an accomplished gentleman, and we shall always be pleased to see him whenever his manifold duties will allow him to give us a call.
—P. J. Flanigen (Commercial), ’75, is in the employ of R. G. Dunn & Co.’s Mercantile Agency, Nashville, Tenn., and is doing well. This young gentleman renews his subscription for the Scholastic, and says: “The personal column, aside from the other information your valuable paper contains, more than repays me.”
Local Items.
—Are we to have any more skating ?
—Winter it seems has returned once more.
—Classes are in splendid running order now.
—Mergy’s heart is not at ease for want of a piece of that cake.
—The classes of Mathematics are very largely attended this session.
—What is the matter with the drop-curtain in the Exhibition Hall?
—“I have a terrible ear for sound,” said our friend John the other day.
—The work on the front extension of the college is progressing rapidly.
—Anew play has introduced itself among the Juniors. Parecheese is the cognomen.
—Quite an audience greeted the Sorinites on the evening of their Entertainment.
—The lakes are again covered with ice, but not quite hard enough yet to enjoy skating.
—Quite a number of promotions were made in the Preparatory classes after the examinations.
—The Band, under the leadership of Mr. Evers, of ’79, played some fine pieces on Tuesday evening last.
—Our friend John is on the war-path, as his average was not at all up to what he expected. Who is to blame ?
—Hon. L. Hubbard, of South Bend, will deliver a lecture in Phelan Hall, on Thursday, on the subject of “Contracts.”
—The St. Cecilians and Philopatrians had meetings this week as usual, but reports were received too late for this issue.	*
—Classes were resumed in full earnest on Monday morning last, and now the professors say "everything goes on nicely.”
—There was quite a rush for the Scholastic on Saturday last, as it contained a full account of the result of the examination.
—Captain J. O’Neill performed his office of instructor in military tactics to the Continential Cadets in a very creditable manner.
—We see from our exchanges that Mr. C. S. Parnell, the Irish agitator, is meeting with a grand reception everywhere he goes. - - ■ '-c
—One of our friends of the French Class feels somewhat put out because of his not being promoted. We wish him better success next time.
—Captain O’Neill performed his part in capital style at the Minims’ Entertainment, and showed forth his little cadets to full advantage.
—On the 4th inst. the Minims enjoyed a fine skate on a shallow slough near the St. Joseph River. The ice was about three inches thick. -
—The Professor of Physics is under obligations to Rt. : Rev. Jos. Dwenger, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, for a j donation to the Physical Cabinet.
—All are unanimous in saying that the Entertainment given by the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, on last Tuesday evening, was a grand success.
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt of an interesting collection of gold and silver ore from Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., of Lead City, Dakota Territory.
—The members of the different boards of examination say that the general answering of the students at the last examination was better than at any previous one they had attended.
—A meeting of the Sorins was held Wednesday evening, Feb. 4th. Matters pertaining to the late Exhibition were discussed. A vote of thanks was tendered to Rev. Father Condon, Bros. Simon and Leander.
—Rev. Father Zahm is indebted to Mr. W. T. Mendenhall, of Chicago, for a valuable collection of Colorado minerals donated to the Museum. Among them are some valuable specimens of silver chloride, sykanite, etc. ’
—The principal feature of the military drill in the Minims’ Exhibition was the wheeling in the form of a cross, forward and the reverse. This is, we believe, the first time this particular evolution was shown at Notre Dame.
—The Sorins return their most cordial thanks to B. Simon, our worthy steward, for the many favors shown them both before and after their Exhibition. He was extended a vote of thanks at their meeting on Wednesday night.
—The Bulletins for this month will be made out in a few weeks, and we hope all the students will do their best and endeavor to have their bulletins for this month better than any of those of previous months. With a little effort on the part of some, we might expect to see the bulletins for this session far superior to any we have seen so far.
—The truth of the ground-hog theory has been substantiated by the wintry weather we have had since the 2d inst. This is another feather in the cap of the astrologer of the Scholastic Annual, the verification of whose prediction some years ago that the ground would, contrary to all appearance, be covered with snow on St. Patrick’s Day has since given him quite a reputation as a weather prophet.
—On Monday morning last, the Feast of the Purification of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. Father L’Etourneau, assisted by Rev. Father Gleason as deacon, and Rev. Father Kelly, subdeacon. After the ceremony of the blessing of the candles, Very Rev. President Cordy said a few words explanatory of the feast celebrated, after which the usual procession took place.	-
Pbbludbs. By Maurice F. Egan. Philadelphia: P. F. Cunningham. 1880.
We have read this little volume, which contains much more of value than its modest title would suggest. Mr. Egan is no trifling songster, but a genuine poet. If he but continue as he has begun, he will yet carve out for himself a name and reputation amongst the few poets of whom the country can boast.—The American Catholic Quarterly Review.
—Mr. Maurice F. Egan’s muse is a dainty one and his little volume, “Preludes” (Cunningham & Son, Philadelphia*), shows him at his best. ■ We note a tenderness and piety in Mr. Egan’s work which is rare enough among our young poets; the inspiration of the Christian faith is evident in almost every line of his polished verse. That he turns lovingly to the sonnet for expression is natural, for it demands that concentration and delicacy which suit the bent of his mind—New York Herald.
—We understand that the Band has at last been fully organized, and placed under the direction of Rev. Mr. Kirsch, C. S. C. It pleases us to hear any good about the Band, which has always taken such a prominent and conspicuous part at all our exhibitions and entertainments,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
345
0'
It is evident, too, that the music the Band will be able to give before long will not be inferior to anything of former years, as each individual member is determined to practice earnestly and perseveringly.
—A rehearsal of the Orchestra was held last Wednesday, at which, it is reported, some excellent pieces were rendered. Most of its members are well known here for their skill in music, and for the manner in which they perform on their various instruments. The part of the first violin has, we believe, been intrusted to skilful hands. Messrs. A J. Burger, B. J. Claggett and F. Bloom assumed the responsible position. The Director, Bro. Leopold, deserves credit for the manner in which he has thus far acquitted himself of his duty.
—The Band was organized on Thursday after dinner. The members are: E Flat Sopranos—Luke Evers, J. Dulaney, J. Norfleet. B Flat Cornets—J. Berteling, G. Clarke, R. Keenan. E Flat Altos—F. Devoto, F. Wall, F. Bloom Solo Alto—A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C. B Flat Solo, Baritone— Thos. Simms. B Flat Tenor—B. Claggett. 1st B Flat Bass—Thos. McNamara, C. S. C., A. J. Burger. 2d E Flat Bass—P. Kolopp, 0. S. C. B. Flat Contra Bass—J, Coleman. Tenor Drum—C. Hagan. Bass Drum—H. Zarley. Cymbals—W. Arnold. E Flat Piccolo—G. Sugg.
—Pbeludes by Maurice F. Egan. [Published to aid in the re-building of the University of Notre Dame]. We are indebted to the publishers, Messrs. Peter F. Cunningham & Son, Philadelphia, for a tastefully gotten up copy of these truly charming poems. In them, the freshness ot nature, the music of rhythm, the sparkle of genius, the flavor of well-directed sentiment, and the breathings of a pure devotion unite to hold the reader. We congratulate our friend, and hail the augury the title of his book affords. He is young, and we may therefore reasonably expect that his “ Preludes” will in time be followed by more extensive lyrics.— Georgetown College Journal.	.
—We have received from Mr. J. A. Lyons, professor in the University of Notre Dame, the almanac entitled Scholastic Annual for the year 1880. In addition to the calendar, astronomical calculations, and other matters commonly found in works of this kind, the Scholastic Annual affords a variety of literary productions in prose and poetry, all in the best taste; well chosen proverbs, amusing and instructive selections, and an engraving of the new University, which, as a miracle of energy and zeal, rises more magnificent than before from the ashes to which it was reduced by the destructive fire of April 23d, 1879. Our compliments and thanks to Prof. Lyons.—Revista Catolica, Las Vegas, JV. M.
—Preludes. P. F. Cunningham & Co., Philadelphia. Some very dainty and charming poetry will be found in a small volume published by Maurice F. Egan to aid in the rebuilding of the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Egan is a cultivator of the sonnet, and places the beautiful sonnet of Bichard W. Gilder upon the sonnet in the front of his book, as if to acknowledge it his model. But he has a style of his own, in which he develops first of all his reverent attitude towards religion; next, his admiration for the Greek lyricists; thirdly, his love for the race and land of his forefathers. His vein of song is quite genuine if not yet established on a certain basis. “Like a Lilac in the Spring” has been set to music. “ Gold and Green” must serve to show his fine touch:
“Gold and green and bine and white, Daises, buttercups, and sky.
Grass and clouds and birds unite In a chorus of delight,
For the tender spring is nigh. Soon will winds no longer sigh.
. “ March and April pass away, And the dainty-fingered rain Plays sweet symphonies all day Welcoming the lovely May.
Soon will chickweed fill the lane
And poppies sprout amid the grain.”
While religious thoughts afford him subjects, it may be that he pays more attention to religion than poetry. Unless appearances are deceptive, there are many little negligences in his work that a closer attention to mundane things would correct.—W. Y. Times.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, A J. Burger, J. P. Brice, B. J. Claggett, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, T. Campbell, D. Donahoe, D. Danahey, J. Delaney, J. Dempsey, H. Deehan, A. Dobson, M. English, E. Ewell, E. Fogerty, E. Gooley, G. Harris, T. Hinderlang, D. Harrington, W. Hamilton, R. Johnson, C. Johnson, J. P. Kenny, J. Keena, J. Kurz, T. Kavanagh, P. B. Larkin, R. Lanham, F. Lynch, E. Lynch, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, J. J. McErlain, E. Murphy, E. Molitor, P. McCormick, C. Moore, M. J. McEniry, M. Maloney, W. McAtee, J. McNamara, L. Mathers, J. Noonan, J. Norfleet, G. Nester, I. A. Newton, R. O’Brien, J. F. O' Connell, J. Osher, G. Pike, L. M. Proctor, F. Reeve, J. O. Rielly, T. W. Simms, H. Simms, J. Solon, P. Shea, L. Stitzel, W. Scholfield, R. D. Stewart, J. 8. Smith, F.C. Smith, C. B. Van Dusen, F.X. Wall, H. Wathan, C. Whalen, W. Wilson, A. Zahm, T. Zeien, E. Le Beau.
The name of George Witwer, was omitted last week through mistake.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Brown, A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, A. A Bodine, H. W. Bachman, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, F. L. Carter, J. V. Cabel, A. Caren. A Coghlin, J. Coleman, H. Dunn, H. F. Devitt, 8. Dering, J. E. Davis, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, H. G. Foote, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, F. Glade, E. H. Gaines, C. A Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A Hermann, A. J. Hellebnsche, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, P. A. Joyce, J. W. Kuhn, R. L. Le Bourgeois, J. Larkin, S. Livingston, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A 8. Manning, P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, J. P. O’Neill, E. A. Otis, P. J. Fletcher, R. E. O’Connor, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, A P. Perley, R. M. Parrett, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Quinn, A Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Kose, A. 8. Rock, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Sehobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Scanlan, R. Simms, C. Schneider, C. A Tinley, C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, J. B. Weitzel, W. T. Weney.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. 8. Courtney, D. G. Taylor, G. P. Van Mourick, G. E. Tourtillotte, G. Woodson, W. H. Hanivan, C. E. Droste, J. Smith, W. M. Olds, G. C. Knight, J. J. Henry, J. A Campeau, A. Van Mourick, L. W. Spaulding, A. A. Molander, A F. Schmuckle, J. E. Johnson, F. B. Farrelly, H. A. Kitz, J. A. Kelly, J. S. Chaves, J. H. Dwenger, L. J. Young, H. Ackerman, W. Wright, C. Campeau, J. R. Bender, E. N. O’Donnell.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The return of the Mother Superior from a short absence on business connected with houses of the Order was hailed with pleasure on yesterday evening.
—Friday, the 6th inst., will be the anniversary of the birth of Very Rev. Father General: the day following will be the second anniversary of the death of the great Pope Pius the Ninth.
—In the 3d French Class great proficiency was shown in the fluency with which lengthy poems were recited by several of the pupils, and a progress, equally encouraging, was to be seen in the class for beginners.
—In the 1st German Class the compositions in the language were well written, and well read. The elementary German classes are particularly to be commended for the perfection with which they sustained the examinations.
—The beautiful spectacle of the procession on Candlemas day cheered all hearts. The Purification is a feast which is very dear to every faithful soul, and most encouragingly it sheds “ a light to enlighten the Gentiles,” over the opening of the second scholastic session.
—The members of the 2d French .Class passed an excellent examination. Misses Dallas, I. Semmes, Cavenor,
346
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Neu, O’Neill, Cortright, A. Ewing, S. Wathen, Campbell, and C. Wathen, distinguished themselves by the promptitude of their replies and their graceful French conversations.
—The ease with which the Misses Silverthorne, Rosing and Lemontey, of the 1st French Class, sustained their French conversations with the accomplished President of the examining bureau reflects credit upon their application to the study of the language, the'universal medium of speech in the polite world.
—The Class in Phonic Short-Hand—although the study has been pursued but three months—proved at the examination to have in their possession a complete knowledge of the elementary sounds, and of the characters by which they are represented. So far as they have gone, the pupils have been perfectly successful.
—The Examining Board on Wednesday was greatly augmented. Rev. Father Zahm, Professor of Chemistry at the University, conducted the examination in chemistry. The young ladies answered in a clear, concise manner, and performed a number of varied and brilliant experiments with a grace and ease indicating no ordinary proficiency. Mrs. Mayor Tong and Airs. H. Stanfield, of South Bend, - and Mrs. Gavan, of Lafayette, were among the visitors.
—The Very Rev. President, the Rev. Vice-President, and the Rev. Fathers of Notre Dame, who presided the seven examining bureaus of the Academic Course, will please accept the thanks of the young ladies for the courtesy, consideration and patience with which the examination was conducted. Embarrassment was completely disarmed. The close and comprehensive questioning was not, as is so often the case, the signal for confusion. Though the usual timidity given by the thought of being examined was more or less apparent, yet the pupils were inspired with confidence, by the delicate mode of putting the questions, and acquitted themselves successfully.
—Visitors—Rev. Father Baroux, Ecorse, Mich.; Rev. Father Kitlell, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Rev. Fathers Barzynsk i and Vaghi, of Chicago; Brother Leonard, C. C., Provincial Alexian Brothers, Chicago; Hon. P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Prof. Luigi Gregori and Air. Henertz, Miss O’Connor, Miss Plamondon, Mrs. Palmer, Mrs. Byerson, Chi cago; Mr. Harper, Allegheny City, Pa.; Miss Olvaney, Michigan City, Ind.; AIiss Dewey, La Crosse, Ind.; Mr. Peterson, Coldwater, Alich.; Miss Barclay, Buflbn, N. Y.; Mr. and AIiss Fletcher, St. Louis, Alo.; Mr. Aleister, Alt. Pulaski, Ill.; Mrs. Kirgery, Buchanan, Mich.; Mr. Clarke, Alontreal, Canada; Air. O. J. Tong, South Bend; Mr. and Airs. Cortright, Hyde Park, Ill.; Miss Condon, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. G. Dobson, Air. A. Dobson, Blackberry, Ill.; Mr. Gitchel, Niles, Alich.; AL J. Gitchel, Air. A. Gitchel, Rocklord, Ill.; Mr. F. Williams, St. Joseph’s, Ind.; Air. Walker, Benton Harbor, Mich.
—The Examination of the Music Classes closed on Thursday. Rev. Father Fanning, of Fairbury, Ill.; and Rev. Father O’Hara, of Chatsworth, Ill.; Rev. Father Condon, oi the University, and Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier, with a number of visitors, were present.
PBOGBAMMB. Polonaise........................................Curtis
Song—“ Pretty Zingafelia ”.......................WiUard
AIiss Farrell. Overture to “Alignon ”.......Misses A Thomas and Rosing.
Harp Solo........................................Bochsa
Miss Semmes.
Rondo Brilliant...................................Weber
Miss Usselman. Song—“Bird of the Merry Greenwood”.................Abt.
Miss Hackett.
Tocatta de Concert......................•.........J)upont
Miss Sullivan.
Harp Solo.....................................Apptommae
AIiss Dillon.
Tarentelle...................................G. Schumann
Miss Neu.
Song—“Magnetic Waltz”............................Ardite
AIiss Ussulman.
Sanata..........................................Beethoven
Miss Gordon. Chorus................................General Vocal Class.
—Thursday evening the Rev. Father Fanning addressed
the young ladies. The doors dividing the Juniors’ from the Seniors’ study-hall were thrown open, giving the opportunity for a larger number to listen to the admirable lecture. The subject was “Progress.” The Rev. speaker related the circumstances suggesting his subject, bringing the incentive prompting his choice closely home to the audience. He had met an ardent vindicator of “ progress ” in his travels, and one full of talk. He endeavored to obtain from this source an explanation of the term “ progress,” and found none satisfactory. No doubt this fact suggested the propriety of addressing young ladies upon the theme. Taking his comparisons from science, the Rev. lecturer proved that there can be no real progress where there is no real stability, and he then passed on to demonstrate the futile effects which must of necessity accompany the so-called progress of the present day; also to the exhibition of the actual progress which has attended the labors of the Church, from the era of her institution up to the present time. Her “foundation ” upon an immovable rock has been the security of her progress; the progress which history in every age proclaims to be her right as the fruit of her teachings, her labors and her sufferings. The lecture we would rejoice to see in print, as it is of a character to do away with much shallow home-made theology too prevalent, and even more dangerou s .than many suppose. We would gladly give a full synopsis, but must content ourselves with thanking Rev. Father Fanning lor his eloquent effort, and trust that he will give a like intellectual treat to the young ladies on some future occasion.
SEMI-ANNUAD examination report of the academic COURSE.
Graduating Class—Average, 99: Misses Sil ver thorn, Kil-lelea, AIcGrath, Ewing, Keenan, Hambleton, Maloney, Wooden, Neteler. 1st Senior Class—Average, 98: Aliases Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Buck, A. Ewing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, Kirchner, Gordon. 2d Senior Class—Average, 98: Aliases Lloyd, Claffey, Joyce, Dillon, Olio, Mitchell, Winston, Smith, Mattingly, Neu, Usselman. 3rd Senior Class—Average, 97: Misses Fitzgerald, Feehan, Loeber, Dallas, Gall, De Lapp, Bruser, AlcMahon, Fox, Wells, Donnelly, C. Wathan, S. Wathan, Julius, Bischoff, Roys, Taylor. 1st Preparatory Class—Average, 95: Aliases Zahm, Keys, Alur-phy, Lancaster, O’Connor, Callinan, Van Namee, Simms, French, Orr, C. Campbell, Hackley, Populorum, Piersol Price, Hamilton, Dessaint, Campbell, Baroux, Wall, Keena, Gillen. 2d Preparatory Class—Average, 96: Aliases Hammond, Rasche, Thompson, McFadden, Reinhard, Halloran, Hackett, Lemontey, S. Semmes, Casey, Leydon, S. Papin, Soloman, Horner. 3d Preparatory Class—Average, 91: Alisses Aloxon, Edelen, Cox, Reynolds, Tailman, Garrity, E. Dallas, L. Wells, Watson, Joseph, Moll, N. Lloyd. Junior Preparatory Class—Average, 98: Alisses Duncan, C. Lancaster, Ginz, Legnard, G. Taylor, Barlow, Carter, Gibbons, Chirhart, Paquette, Reutlinger, AIcClos-key, E. Populorum, Ryan, Fleming, C. Ryan. 1st Junior Class—Average, 94: Alisses Harrison, Hutcheson, Clarke, Haney, Hale, E. Papin, Considine, Jaegar. Zimmerman, M. Fisk. 2d Junior Class—Average, 90: Alisses M. Fitzgerald, Wilkins, B. Hackett, B. Garrity, Robinson, M. Baroux, T. Haney.
FRENCH.
Average of the 1st Class, 99: Misses Silverthorn, Rosing, Dallas. Average of 2d Class, 95: Alisses Semmes, Le-montey, O’Neill, Cavenor, Neu, S. Wathan, Cortright, A. Ewing, Campbell, C. Wathan, A. Cox. Average ot 3d Class, 92: Misses C. Lancaster, Feehan, Fox, Ryan, Populorum, S. Semmes, Baroux, Lancaster, Keys, De Lapp, Clarke, Winston, E. Populorum, Hackett. Average of 4th. Class, 90: Misses Smith, McMahon, K. Wells, K. Lloyd, Simms, Hammond, A. Taylor, G. Taylor, Legnard, Barlow, Paquette, E. Papin, Price, Leyden, Watson, Donnelly, E. Dallas.
GERMAN.
Average of the 1st Class, 97: Misses Usselman, Gall, Soloman, Reinhard, Horner, Julius. Average of the 2d Class, 98: Misses C. Hackett, McMahon, Smith, Claffey, Bischoff, Leober. Average ot the 3d Class, 94: Misses M. Fitzgerald, Joyce, Ward, M. Hamilton. Promoted to the 3d Class: Misses Quinn, Bruser, Piersol, A. Dillon, Ginz, Reutlinger, C. Campbell, Duncan. Average of the 2d Divi-
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	347
f __________________________________________________________
> sion of 3d Class, 90; Misses Casey, Chirhart, Gibbons, 8. 1 Semmes, Carter, Harrison, Fleming, Hutcheson, Moll, Considine, Zimmerman.
penmanship.
Senior Department—1st Class—Average, 92: Misses .	Neu, Kirchner, Galen, Hackett, Farrell, Sullivan. 2d
,	Class—Average, 90: Misses Dallas, Smith, Gall, Cavenor,
* Horner, Salomon, Hackley, Zahm, Mitchell, De Lapp, Otto, Lancaster, S. Hambleton, McMahon, Fitzgerald, Reinhard, $ Neteler, Gordon, Donnel'y, Loeber, Gillen, Mattingly, MurI phy. Second Division—2d Class—Average, 88: Misses McGrath, Silverthorn, Lloyd, Woodin, Winston, I. Semmes, Bosing, Ewing, Keena, Cortright, Killelea, Maloney, A. Ewing, Buck. 3d Class—Average, 85: Misses Ryan, Wells, Campbell, S. Wathan, C. Walhan, Danahar, Halloran, Ward, Gavan, Dessaint, Thompson, Rasche, Julius, i Callinan, Usselman, Simms, Wall, Roys, Quinn, Bruser, Hamilton, Price, Joyce, Keys, Tallman, Bischoff, O’Neill, Piersol, Dillon, Keena. 4th Class—Average, 77: Misses Hammond, Moxon, Cox, Baroux, O’Connor, Reynolds, . Edelen, Taylor, McFadden.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
The examination of Music Classes, instrumental, and vocal, proved satisfactory. The Board of Examiners, presided by Mother Superior, let nothing- pass, carefully noting the progress of former pupils, and the promise of future culture among the new aspirants. To this object, during ten • days, two hours were devoted. The promotions and hon-[ orable mentions give the result of five months study and fidelity to practice hours. Visitors from distant and neighboring cities honored the examination by their criticism and presence. Promoted to the Graduating Class: Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. To 1st Class: Misses Gordon, Buck. To 2d Division: Miss Neu, Usselman, Sullivan. 2d Class—Honorably mentioned: Misses Rosing, Killelea. Promoted to the Class: Misses Kirchner, Far. rell, Campbell. Promoted to 2d Division: Misses Hack’’ ley, McMahon. 3d Class—Honorably mentioned : Misses McGrath, I. Semmes, Callinan, Salomon, Gall. Promoted I to the Class: Misses Rheinbard, Bruser, Wells, Piersol, Dallas, Cortright, Maloney. 2d Div.—Honorably mentioned: Misses Mattingly, C. Hackett, Bischoff, Roys. Promoted to the Class: Misses Julius, Woodin, Donnelly, Hackett, Ewing, Horner. 4th Class—Honorably mentioned : Miss Palmer. Promoted to the Class: Misses Price, Cav-. ernor, C. Campbell. Classed—Misses Davis, Cruminey. 2d Div.—Honorably mentioned: Misses Leydon, Mitchell. Promoted to the Class: Misses Garrity, Otto, Hamilton, > French, Fox, Van Namee. Promoted to 5th Class: Misses Gillen, O’Connor, C. Wathen, Claffey, Loeber, Casey, Keys, Danaher, O’Neill, A. Dillon. 5th Div.—Honorably mentioned: Misses Gavan, Dessaint, Orr, Gibbons, Harrison, Hutchinson, Legnard. Lancaster. Promoted to The Class: Misses J. Wells, Hammond, Feehan, Simms, S. Wathen, Wall, Reutlinger, Populorum, C. Lancaster, Thompson, E. * Populorum, Moxon, Lloyd, Tailman, Fitzgerald. 5th Class—Honorably mentioned: Misses Neteler, E. Dallas. Promoted to the Class: Misses Rasche, Fleming, Barlow, Duncan, McFadden, Murphy, De Lapo, Baroux, E. Ryan, Carter, C. Ryan, Papin, Cihrhart. 2d Div.—Honorably mentioned: Misses Ward, Edelen, Lemontey, Cox, Moll, Wright. Promoted to the Class: Misses Ginz, Watson, Wilkins, G. Taylor, Clarke, Taylor, Zimmerman. 7th Class— Honorably mentioned: Misses Halloran, Smith, I. Hack* ett. Promoted to the Class: E. Lloyd, McCloskey. Classed —Misses McCormick, McCoy, Reynolds. 8th Class— . Honorably mentioned: Misses B. Garrity, Fisk. Classed —Misses Cleghorn, Heaney. Promoted to the 9th Class: Misses M. Fitzgerald, M. Baroux. Harp—1st Class: Misses Galen. 2d Division: Misses I. Semmes, Dillon. Organ—Honorably mentioned: Misses C. Wathan, 8. Wathan.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
5	1st Class—Average, 100. Promoted to this Class: Misses
Kirchner, Gordon. 2d Class—Average, 98: Promoted to this Class: Miss C. Hackett. 3d Class—Average, 96: Promoted to this Class: Misses Bruser, Rosing, Mattingly, O’Connor, Reinhard, Sullivan, Callinan, Buck, Salomon, Julius, McGrath, A. Ewing. 4th Class—Average, 94: Promoted to this Class: Misses E. Hackett, French, Mitchell, Horner. 5th Class—Average, 88.	■
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
2d Class—Average, 92: Misses L. and C. Lancaster, Fox, J. Wells, Thompson, Wall. 3d Class—Average, 84: Misses Feehan, B Garrity, Baroux, Crummey.
Painting in Water-Colors—ad Class—Average, 94: Misses Zahm, C. Campbell. 3d Class—Average, 90: Misses Otto, Papin, Casey, Loeber.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Average, 95: Mis^ Neteler, Hambleton, Joyce, Buck. 2d Class—Average, 93: Misses I. Semmes, Cortright, Killelea, A. Ewing, Mattingly, Dillon, Dallas. 3d Class—Average 92: Misses Dessaint, C. Campbell, Sullivan, French.
GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Average. 83: Misses A. Ryan, C. Hackett, Halloran, M. Semmes, Donnelly, Murphy, Bischoff, Edelen, McMahon, Quinn, Keys, O’Connor, Bruser.
Junior Department—Average, 80: Misses A Dillnn, Gibbons, Reutlinger, Hale, Duncan, Hutchinson, Moll, Carter, E. Populorum, Legnard, Claffey, C. and E. Ryan, Clarke, McCloskey.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT , DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, Neteler, Cavenor, Sullivan, A. Ryan, Ward. Cortright, Rosing, Buck, Galen, Quinn, Farrell, Dinaher, Kirchner, I. Semmes, A. Ewing, Dillon, Neu, Joyce, Usselman, Mitchell, Otto, Winston, Smith, O’Neill. Mattingly, Fitzgerald, Donnelly, De Lapp, Dallas, Wells, Bischoff, McMahon, C. Wathen, 3. Wathen, Palmer, Zahm, Piersol, Campbell, O’Connor. Keys, Murphy, Lancaster, Simms, Hamilton, Taylor, Gillen, Keena, Dessaint, Wall, Gavan, Baroux. Wright, Davis, Thompson, Hammond, Horner, Salomon, Reinhart, Rasche, Halloran, Moxon, Edelen, Tallman, Reynolds, McCoy, McCormick, Krieg, Angels, par excellence. Misses McGrath, Keenan, Woodin, Ewing, Gordon, Lloyd, Loeber, Gall, Ju'ius, Bruser, English, Hackley, Callinan, Price, McFadden, Cleghorn, Cox.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, Feehan, A. Dillon, Fox, French, C. Campbell, Van Namee, S. Semmes, Casey, Leydon, Crummey, G. Taylor, McCloskey, Carter, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Duncan, Reutlinger, Chirhart, Legnard. E. Populorum. Ginz, Paquette, Hale, Hutchison, Harrison, Jaeger. Fitzgerald, Robinson, Baroux, par excellence. Misses Orr, Populorum, Lemontey, E. Hackett, Papin, E. Dallas, Watson, McN. Garrity, J. Wells, E. Lloyd, Joseph, Moll, E. Ryan, Barlow, Clarke, Zimmerman, E. Papin, Considine, I. Hackett, B. de C. Garrity, Wilkins.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Mile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital.
IS" In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Ari; Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.	'
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
348	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway Time Table-Nov. 16, 1879.					
	•Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich City -“ Niks	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson 	 Ar. Detroit -		7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a m 11 13 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	•Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	•f Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit	 Tackeon---“ Kalamazoo -• “• Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 3i> “ 6 50 “ |	9 35 a m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50 a. m 6 50 •• 8 08 “ 10 35 “ 1	9 50 p m. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 *• 5 30 “ 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 3 30 “ 455 “ 730 “
IN lies and South Bend Di vision.					
•GOING NORTH.	*G0ING	SOUTH. Lv So. Bend—8 45 a.m.	6 30 p.m. Lv	Niles— 7 05 a.m.	4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638	“	“	N. Dame—7 40 »	4 48	“ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	7 15	“	Ar.	So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55	“					
♦Sunday excepted. tDaiiy.	t Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H B. Ledyard. G. P. & T. A., Chicago. Ill.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Mich. G. L. Elliott. Agent. South Bend, Ind.					
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LIN is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northe W:seonsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all noints in the Great. Northwest Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona. Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
L. S. & M. S. Railway. j
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as s follows:	r
GOING EAST.	J
9 25 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, ar-rives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; .
Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.	'
12 lOp. m. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 13 p.m, A’lantic Express, over Air Line. Arivea at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4= p.m, Way Freight. GOING WEST.
2 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4, 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.	'
8 03 a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago. 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Nov. IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OE TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
		No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, MaiL
Pittsburg....... Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Aerive		11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00-A.M	j 7.45 “	’ 11.00 * 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “ •
Crestlin... Forest	 Lima	 Ft. Wayne, Plymouth,. Chicago,..		Leave	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	540 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 A.M. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 a.m. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	• •••• ••••
					
					
	...Arrive				
						
G(		HNG EAST.			
		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No.S, Mail.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,............		9.10 p.m. 2.46 A.M. 655 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30 A M 2.33 “ 4.05 “	
Ft. Wayne,						
Lima,							
Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive					
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 400 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 1L15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 am.	| 6155 “	f 9.15 “	■ 11.20 “	K 2.00 p.m.	W 3.30	K
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 rt daily except Saturday cept Saturday. All oth This is the only Line 1 Cars from Chicago to I and New York without principal ticket offices at		tn Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh	K Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex-	? ers daily except Sunday	] ha’ runs the celebrated Pullman Palace	S laltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia	* Change. Through tickets for sale at all	I the lowest current rates.	| F. B. HYEBS, G. E & T. A.	!			
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	349
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations'of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EOWA.RD8,
Notbe Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IK Watches, Clocks,
□■EWELS/Y-. All Kinds of Engraving Done. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING UNK
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo. Moline, Rock Island. Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City. Marengo. Brooklyn, Gnnnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart. Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton. Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella,Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianolaand Winterset; Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars are also run between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying four meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs PiMman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST I Dining Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the LS.iM.3. andP^ Ft. W. &C. R. Rds.
At WASHINGTON HEIGHTS, with P., C. & St. L. R. R.
At La Salle, with UI. Cent. R. R.
At Peoria, with P. P. & J.; P.D.AE.; LB.S W.; UI. Mid.: and T. P. & W. Rds.
At ROCK Island, with “Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d & Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C. M. A St. P. R. R.
At West Liberty, with theB.. C. R. A N.R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. R.
At Des Moines, with D. M. A F. D. R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with B.,C. R. A N. R.R.
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR.R.;W., St. L. & Pac., and C. B. & Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Tol., Peo. A War.; Wab.. St. Louis A Pac., and St. L.. Keo. A N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch.. Topeka A Santa Fe; Atch. A Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R- Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pac., and Kan. Cent. R. Rds.
At Kansas CITY, with all lines for the West and Southwest.	'
PULLMAN" PALACE CABS are ran through to PEORIA, DES MOINES.
COUNCIL BLUFFS. KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVENWORTH. Tickets via this Line, known as the “ Great Rock Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket once, address,
A. KIMBALL,	E2. ST. JOHN,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Tkt. and Psss’gr Agt.,
Chicago, HL
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA. ■
(MAIN BUILDING.)
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy fanning region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping ■ Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects waich the University has in view as an educational institution.	'
f Terms greatly reduced. .
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,	’
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C^ Notre Dame P. 0, Indiana.