Yotre Dame Scholastic.
Bisee quasi semper vlcturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 29, 1881.	Number S
A Tribute of Devotion,
Offered at the Charmingly-Adorned, and Beautiful Resting-Place of Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, C. S. C., Fourth President of Notre Dame University.
O sacred, flower-crowned grave!
O radiant sod!
The rose, the lilies wave
And pansies nod, Above the treasured form that sleeps Where fond devotion waits and weeps.
. Each day, some new rare bloom, Some gift, most prized. We bring to deck this tomb;
None hath sufficed, However rich, to duly show Our love for him, who lies below.
Worth ? His was worth sublime.
Not tinselled fame, Not honor won from time
Plays round his name;
But merits of unfading hue
Have crowned him as the just, the tree.
Dear Father! generous priest!
Eight years ago,
When morn rose in the East, Its beams to throw,
Over the sylvan scenes that rise In modest grandeur to the skies,
Where Notre Dame, in light,
With outstretched arms,
Dawns on the longing sight, Clad in the charms
Of holy hope, of spotless love, The pensive, tranquil earth above.
0 then, thy cherished form
Among us stood,
Type of all virtues warm, Traits, great and good.
Thy voice, so eloquent with truth, Cheered and encouraged noble youth.
But now, we kneel beside
The fresh, bright mound, Though tears we fain would hide. Yet, though profound, Our grief our hope is fresh and fair, Like perfumes that these roses bear.
. Back to thy place of rest, Midst holy things;
As young birds seek their nest, So, on fleet wings,
Though far away, our souls shall yearn, And to this sacred spot return.
The Idea of God.
Bossuet says: “ Wisdom consists in knowing God and one’s self”; but, far from holding it to be an abstract and merely speculative science, the same author adds, elsewhere, “ Woe to that sterile knowledge which, betraying itself, does not love! ” True philosophy is, in fact, an earnest and active inquiry for both .the true and the good, by means of ail our mental powers. St. Thomas says “ there are two ways of knowing God, the first of which exceeds all the efforts of human reason, and the second can be attained through natural reasoning.” Now, every-day experience teaches us that the human mind has a double bent: it is inclined either towards God or against Him.
When man follows the former tendency, he finally arrives at his supreme end, his Maker and Father; whilst on the contrary, by following the latter, he commits a crime, degrades himself, and exposes himself both here and hereafter to the most dreadful consequences. How this has happened in our own day, let us show briefly.
Hitherto mankind has believed that the gift of intelligence and the knowledge of God through the light of reason, constitute the true dignity of man. If to possess an intelligence whereby he knows the Infinite and Eternal God, perfect in His attributes of love and mercy, of justice and power, elevates man, then to lack this knowledge is no elevation. Surely, if there be anything which ennobles man, it is to be lifted upward and united with the Divine Original, by whom he was created. What, then, must be the state of those who abuse that very reason which is God’s best gift, who misuse the intelligence He gave for the gaining of a right knowledge of Himself, to deny His existence; who say that the world is the only reality of which we have a positive knowledge,—who declare that sensible facts, and the phenomena of matter, and the things that we can handle and taste and test and analyze by chemistry, that these things are the only truths we can know, and that anything beyond these—such as right and wrong, conscience and soul,—are superstitions of theology or abstractions of metaphysics ? Does such a philosophy dignify or degrade human nature ? What is the difference between a man and the dumb animal? is it not the possession of reason and the right use thereof? If that be so, such science is properly mere brute philosophy. It reduces man, indeed, to the level of those who know not God.
What degrades this shameful philosophy more in the eyes of common sense is, that it is not content with abdicating the powers of reason for its own disciples; they who profess it are not satisfied with their own pitiable state of pri
104	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
vation, they go about seeking to rob other men of their dignity and their manhood; they will not permit other men to know God, or exercise the use of reason to know Him.
We learn from history that there are none so tyrannical, none so bigoted, none so intolerant, as those who do not believe in the existence of God; they are so sure, alas! that the reason of man cannot know and comprehend God,that they confidently affirm that God does not exist; and because they do not know Him, they call Him the Unknowable.
For this very reason the men of the nineteenth century, who profess to be the guides and lights of humanity, the leaders and promoters, as they say, of modern progress and civilization, appear to us, beyond all men, as boasting, despotic, and tyrannical; so, for instance, they have found out in the Old World that the highest thing on earth is not the Church of God, but the State; that the State is supreme; that liberty of conscience is a fiction; that obedience is due from all men, and in all things, to the State alone, all revelation, all duty, all liberty, all the rights of God, to the contrary. It is plain that such a state of affairs is a formal negation of all faith; that it is a deification of human reason as the sole rule of life, and of human will as the sole source of law; besides, out of this strange philosophy of the unreasonable, (which, however, is most generally reproved and repudiated by the practical good sense of the New World) there has sprung an elaborate system of politics, which has these two characteristics: first, a claim to interfere with the intellectual belief of all men; and secondly, a claim to control parental rights. They preach liberty of speech and of the press, until it refutes them, then they gag and suppress it; they inscribe, in bold relief, on public monuments these beautiful words: Liberty, Equality, Fraternity; but they expel or imprison priests, nuns and monks, they will not permit fathers and mothers to educate their offspring in their own faith, and they exile all teachers who do not agree with them—and all this in the name of justice and liberty!
Some, blinded by I know not what false liberalism— others, intoxicated, as it were, by military or diplomatic success, think to achieve that which no power of man has ever yet accomplished—the subjugation of the Church. Like Titans, they are attempting to achieve the impossible. Having worshipped human reason, they now deify the State and declare it to be all-powerful, not only in the matter of taxes and customs, of industry and commerce, but even over the souls of men, and over the human conscience. When we hear men saying with an imperious air, “I do not believe in God, I believe only in the phenomena which I perceive by means of my senses,” they remind us of the poor creatures we meet at the corners of the streets, bearing on their breast the label “Stone-blind.” There ip, however, this difference: the poor sightless sufferers appeal to our sympathies, and seek our pity and our help, whilst the unbelievers glory in their self-inflicted blindness, and despise all who can see.
There are at this very moment, in our own country, at. tempts in hand to interfere with the religious and Christian educa’ion of the young. True Christian parents’should suffer no children of theirs to attend any school whatsoever in which they would be exposed to the remotest danger of losing their faith; this is a divine and a preci :us gift, and is of more value than gold, more vital than even life itself. By voluntarily exposing them to the imminent
danger of losing it, parents are guilty of a grievous wrong, and are the cause of ruining, perhaps, the innocent sculs cf their children.
As to the young men who have received a thorough Christian education, we would say, always cherish the supernatural gift of faith by which you believe in a Supreme Being, infinitely just and infinitely good; cherish it by piety and prayer, by an honest and upright life, and these will inspire your hearts with filial love to your Heavenly Father, with a constant obedience to His voice speaking through holy Church, your Mother; and far from believing that by so doing you would degrade your reason, be firmly assured that by entire submission to faith, to Ged, and to His Church, all your natural faculties will be raised to a wonderful height, your intelligence enlarged, your heart purified, and your free will guided and enlightened; because it will be with that mystical alliance in you, as with the divine union of the God-Man, spoken of by the Angelic Doctor: “ The divine science in the soul of Christ not only did not extinguish the human knowledge, but rendered it all the.more perfect and luminous.”	PniLALETHES
The Future of America.
BY M. E. HEALY.
The sudden rise or the sudden fall of nations are always objects of our admiration or subjects for our contemplation. The very rapid growth of America, from comparative nothingness is an interesting theme for present historians, and will be such for generations to come, for those yet to write the history of nations.
Her gigantic strides toward a perfect and lasting civilization, have been such that we stop in reading her history and inquire as to their cause.
The indomitable will of our revolutionary forefathers, the haven that America opened to the persecuted and suffering of other lands, and lastly her almost inexhaustible resources were the elements, which, being united, raised her to the position she now occupies. Noble and independent, she bids defiance to her enemies; grand and powerful, she is recognized as a mediatrix and an important factor in the affairs of the world; happy and free, she has nothing to look back upon with sorrow or remorse.
“ Search creation round, and where can be found a country that presents so grand a spectacle, so interesting an anticipation ? What noble institutions! what a comprehensive policy! what a wise equalization of every political advantage ! The oppressed of all countries, the martyrs of every creed, the innocent victim of despotic arroganso r superstitious frenzy may there find refuge; here his industry is encouraged, his piety respected, his ambition animated; with no restraint but those laws which are the same to all, and no distinction but that which his merit may justly deserve.
Everywhere progress has been made, thought has been quickened, aspirations elevated, philosophy broadened and life enlarged, and we have to day all the condi- -tions of a free, independent and prosperous national life.
But how is this grand condition in which we now stand to be maintained and transmitted ? Education is undoubtedly to play a very prominent part; but it has been said that educated villainy is more dangerous than honest ignorance; and a great question, therefore, arises, “ what part
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
105
will religion play ” ? If many of the nations that once ex. isted had a religion, one that would tend to elevate rather than to degrade them, they might still be powerful, anc flourishing instead of being merely subjects for reflection and, Imight say, doubt. Man falls more throug want of than character from want of intellect. It is the vices outside of the law that will sap our national life.
Personal extravagance and love of show drive thousands delirious with care. Licentiousness blasts the beauty of social life, and blights both soul and body of the individual and of society with its corrupting breath. Intemperance seizes its victims and drags them from comfort and respectability to poverty and degradation, and sends them beggars and outcasts to the doors 0/ death.	.
Our form of Government is not destined to die by violence but if it die at all, it will be through corruption. The mad desire that the unscrupulous politicians of our day have of ruling, may yet bring on anachy and ruin. France has repeatedly fallen, so that she has at length become a byword in the mouth of nations, and why this ? Because, in the first place, she persisted in an unpardonable neglect of education, and secondly in a neglect and abuse of religion. x Let America look to these points; let our people be a people, not of ignorance and infidelity, but of education and piety; let there be a keen sense of honor in distinguishing right from wrong; let there be the country’s and not the individua l’s gain in view; let not military chieftains hold too high a position in our minds; in a word, let simplicity and honesty mark all our actions. Macaulay has significantly painted the scene when a New Zealander shall stand on London Bridge and sketch the ruins of St. Paul’s Cathedral. We trust America will see no such picture in the future of the country, rather let us strive each one, to fulfil his part faithfully, till we shall see her so steadily advancing and so firmly and unalterably founded on principles of honesty, manliness and self-reliance that we may rest secure in the firm belief, that for America, there shall be no change in the form of Government till He who formed shall return her into chaos whence she sprang.
Art, Music, and Litertaure.
—Dr. Holland is succeeded by Richard Watson Gilder as editor of the Century Magazine. Mr. R. U. Johnson will be associate editor.
—“P. C. Centz, Barrister,” who wrote “The Republic of Republics,” a volume in defence of “ The Lost Cause,” is supposed to be a pseudonym for Judah P. Benjamin.
—Messrs. J. A. <& R. A. Reid, the Rhode Island publishers, have in press a volume on “ The Life and Public Serf vices of the Late Senator Burnside.” It needs no further commendation than the fact that it is written by Maj. Ben: Perley Poore, and will have a preface by Senator Anthony.
—The musical critic of the Chicago Times, speaking of the “ Semiramide Overture,” says it is" all a mass of shimmering brightness—mere moonlight on the water. We feel ■ sorely disappointed in having missed the opportunity of seeing this new-fashioned musical moonlight. Wonder if , it’s anything like the double back-actioned electric light 1 one of our Seniors was lately looking after ?
—A second edition of “A Romance of the Nineteenth Century ” will shortly be published. It will contain, in the shape of a preface, Mr. Mallock’s answer to his reviewers, his answer will have to be of more than ordinary ability and strength if he would change the present opinion of his worth as a writer. Mr. Mallock’s book betrays in the writer a corrupt heart and a code of morals that should exclude both the writer and the book from decent society.
—The American Art Review ends its existence with the next number. It was the first publication which went systematically to work to present to Americans the excellent work done by American etchers. Mr. Kohler, the editor, was a man of learning, and showed both skill and discernment in his selection of topics. It is a sorry comment on public taste in the United States that such a valuable periodical is unable to obtain the necessary patronage and support.
—Prof. Max Muller has announced a curious discovery of Sanscrit manuscripts recently made in Japan, by two of his Japanese pupils at Oxford. The work is a text of the celebrated ‘ Diamond Knife,’ forming part of the Sacred Canon or Bible of the Buddhists, but hitherto known only through Thibetian and Mongolian translations, the original being supposed to be irrecoverably lost. Owing to the early practice among the Chinese Buddhists of making pilgrimages to the holy places of their worship in India, and taking back with them Sanscrit manuscripts, Prof. Muller has always been of opinion that a number of such precious relics must be existing in China. Such a discovery in Japan, however, was wholly unexpected.	-
—The proportions of the human figure are six times the length of the feet, and this rule holds good whether the form be slender or plump. Any deviation from it is a departure from the highest beauties of proportion. The Greeks made all their statues according to this rule. The face, from the highest point of the forehead, where the hair begins, to the chin, is one tenth of the statue. The hand, from the wrist to the middle of the forefinger, is the same. From the top of the chest to the highest point of the fore -head is a seventh. If the face, from the roots of the hair to the chin, is divided into three equal parts, the first division determines the place where the eyebrows meet, and the second the place of the nostrils. The height from the feet to the top of the head is the same as the distance between the extremities of the fingers when the arms are extended
—A late number of the New York Herald contains the following account of Oscar Wilde, as given by Miss Blanche Roosevelt on her late return from Europe: “ He struck me,” said Miss Roosevelt, “ as being very, very ‘ utter.’ He has a languishing face, long light hair, blonde complexion, and was dressed in light pantaloons and a gray redingote, buttoned so very tightly that it displayed a profusion of wrinkles. He looked as if he had hard work to get into it. He is a large-sized man, with enormous feet and hands, and makes a conspicuous feature in every throng; but his face has a decidedly animal-like expression, which is only offset by the originality of his conversation, in which, being a poet, he occasionally utters bright things.” Animal-like expression and a languishing face, when united in one individual, must be something wonderful to see and hard to be discerned unless by some one too foolishly utter. But is the description a perfectly true one?
Scientific Notes.
—Ireland is the only part of Great Britain in which tobacco can be grown. Tne paternal (?) British Government, however, prohibits the culture of the weed in that country.
—The Rev. Henry H. Jessup, D. D., who is now in the Holy Land, writes to the New York Observer under date of Sept. 21, enclosing a letter received by .him from Mr. Julius Loytved, announcing the discovery of some valuable Assyrian inscriptions near the sculptured tablets on the Don River.
—La Lampe Soleil is a new electric lamp of French origin. It consists of a small block of marble, into which two holes are bored for the reception of carbons, which at their points are separated by a thin partition in the marble. The current passing through the marble renders it incandescent, and produces a soft and brilliant ight like that of the sun, whence the name. The cost is aid to' be one penny per hour. The lamp is the inven-sion of MM. Clerac and Bureau.
—The United States promise to become pot only the
106	' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
garden of the world but also the workshop of the world. American musical instruments have an acknowledged superiority in Europe; American mowers, reapers, printingpresses, etc., long since gained favor there; some of the finest carriages and wagons in the world, have been, for some time, exported from the celebrated Studebaker Manufactory, in our neighboring city of South Bend; the Coquillard Wagons, from the same city of South Bend, are rapidly pushing their way to fame wherever they become known; so also the Birdsell Clover-Hui let, and the Oliver Chilled Plow,—all from South Bend; and now we learn from Tuerk Bros. & -Johnston, of Chicago, that their celebrated Water-Motors are meeting with great favor in Australia and the Sandwich Islands. The Clough & Warren reed organs are driving others out of the London market, and American cutlery is now superiorto the best Sheffield make.
—The famous astronomer, Kircher, having an acquaintance who denied the existence ot a Supreme Being, took the following method to convince him of his error upon his own principles. Expecting him for a visit, he procured a very handsome globe and placed it in a corner of the room where it could not escape his friend's observation; the latter seized the first .occasion to ask whence it came, and to whom it belonged. “Not to me,” said Kircher, “ nor was it made by any person; it came here by mere chance.'" “That,” replied his skeptical friend, “is absolutely impossible; surely, you are jesting.” Kircher, however, persisted in his assertion. “ You will not,” said he, “ believe that this small body originated by mere chance; and yet you will contend that the heavenly bodies, of which it is only a faint and diminutive resemblance, came into existence without order or design.” Pursuing this chain of reasoning, his friend was at first confounded, then convinced, and ultimately joined in a cordial acknowledgment of the absurdity of denying the existence of a God.
—Horse-power was a unit of force, introduced by Watt to enable him to determine what size of engine to send to his customers to supersede the.number of horses which the new power was to replace. He ascertained that the average force exerted by the strongest horses in one of the London breweries was sufficient to raise 33,000 pounds one foot high in a minute; thus, an engine of 200 horsepower wouid be a force equal to that of 200 horses, each lifting 33,000 pounds one foot high per minute. In modern practice, owing to the allowances made for friction, the term has ceased to have so definite a meaning. It is made now to refer rather to the size of the cylinder rather than to the power exerted. In calculating the power of a steam engine, the general rule is to multiply together the pressure in pounds on a square inch of the piston, the area of the piston in inches, the length of the stroke in feet, and the number of strokes per minute, the result, divided by 33,000, gives the units of work done in one minute. As an allowance for friction it is necessary to deduct about one tenth of the whole.
Exchanges..
—Donahoe's Magazine for November has the following ble of contents: I, Biographical Sketch of the Late Rev. James Fitton; II, The “Foreign” Church: A Reply to Rev. E. E. Hale; III, A Practical View of the Temperance Movement; IV, The Opening Door; V, All Souls’ Day; VI, A Bird’s-Eye View of Ireland; VII, Fits.—A Prelate’s Advice to Parents; VIII, In the Service of France; IN, All-Hallow E’en; X, All Saints; XI, The Intention of The Sovereign Pontiff; XII, The Irish Bar; XIII, Catholic Movements in Western Colonization; XIV, Year Without a Summer. Giants of Old; XV, Father Tom Burke as a Poet; XVI, Parody on Thomas Davis’s “ Native Swords”; XVII, The Land League; XVIII, The Yorktown Celebration; XIX, The Death of President Garfield; XX, Our Race in New Zealand; XXI, The Great Irish Land-0wn-ers—President Arthur; XXII, Irish Girls in America; XXHI, Our Young Folks: How Pink’s Pride had a Fall. Talk to the Children. A Bad Girl to Marry. Legend of the Holy Shadow; XXIV, Useful Knowledge; XXV,
The Humorist; XXVI, A Talk withour Readers; XXVII, Events' of the Month; XXVIII, Personal; XXIX, Notices of Recent Publications; XXX, Obituary.
—The Otterbein Record begins its new volume in a handsome form, and, we are told, with assurances of future welfare in the liberal patronage bestowed during its first year. A handsome cut of the college adorns the first page. The leading article, “After Graduation, What?” by Rev. W. O. Tobey, A. M., contains many happy thoughts, happily expressed. The writer says truly that:
“The world of books, and the open thesaurus of all literature give us our best advantages. Whether we rise high or remain low down in knowledge, depends upon whether we love books or shrink from systematic contact with them. The endless making of books discourages many from undertaking to know what is in many of them. It must be lamented that close technical college studies have a tendency to unfit some minds for general literature. It is becoming clear to the best educators that a department of general literature is the greatest need of every college. Without it, the student receives no training or habits fitting him for the best and greatest postgraduate course, that which embraces the literature of the ages, coming down in the original language, and also standing forth in translations. A true and profitable course of college training will afford stimulus and qualification for the pursuit of learning in the realm of general literature. The graduate who has learned to regard his text-books as the only ones worth studying, has been almost ruinously deceived. There is no means of telling whether he will ever awake to the fact that he is ignorant of the wealth of literature.”
In regard to post-graduate instruction the writer is in sympathy with what appeared on this subject in the Scholastic last year:
“It is possible to be ever learning without ever coming to a knowledge of the truth. But within right limits, post-graduate instruction is of great value. No college professor or presiden t should fail to advise the graduates from the academic course to seek the benefit of the post-graduate course. The order of the day is more thorough instruction, higher branches, longer continuance in study under instructors. Rapid progress is seen in the building up of university courses in this country. Wealth is flowing steadily toward the institutions which have become fortunate enough to be regarded as the larger institutions. Wealth attracts wealth. Institutions that get SIOO.OOO will likely secure a million before many years. The graduates of ‘fresh water’ colleges may enjoy the benefits of institutions which by parity of reasoning may be called salt-water universities.
“It must not be forgotten that the word educate is derived from educare, to train, and not from educcre, to lead out. Education is a training of the mind. This training should be the talisman of indefinite improvement, and the touch-stone to which all mental processes are brought. The college graduate is a persistent student, a constant learner, a progressive scholar, else he did not graduate in the right sign ot the moon, or received a diploma with Latin beyond his ability to translate. To be or not to be is not always or very often the question. It generally comprehends too much for practical use. Shakspeare himself did not design it to be applicable to every emergency. But the college graduate may propound to himself this question: Will he be a scholar or a mere college graduate? That is the question. Will he exhibit to his friends his diploma, and to the world his lack of enthusiasm and literary character? Will he continue to work according to the rules of study hours, or will he allow himself to fall into the ways of ignoble ease? It may indeed be found difficult to follow through life the habits formed at college. But the permanent element of that training should ever make a scholar, that is a true learner, of him. It often remains for the graduate to learn the highest idea of training after he quits college, though he obtained faint impressions of it in his classes.”
—The Catholic Shield,—“ A Monthly Chronicle and General Review,” as the sub-title explains—is a 16-page quarto, published at Ottawa, Ont. It has now passed its sixth number, and as we have received it regularly since its inception we should be able to form a fair opinion of its merits. The Catholic Shidd presents many excellent features, not the least of which is a manly independence that fears not to proclaim the truth, no matter how it may be received. The motto Scuto circumdabit te veritas ejus, might lead one to infer the contrary, but he need not read many numbers of The Catholic Shield to become aware that there is a keen sword behind the buckler as well as a strong and skilful arm to wield it in cases of necessity. The editor takes a great interest in education; in fact, the main object of his
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
107
publication is the furthering of the interests of Christian education. There are two or more pages of Educational Notes in each number, besides able articles on subjects pertaining to education. The October number discusses “ The Monopoly of the Ontario School System,” “Parental Rights to Education,” and continues the very entertaining “ Half-Hours with Modern Philosophers.” We have here reviewed the system of Locke, the Apostle of Materialism, who transformed the traditions of the Empiricists, renewed by Bacon and systematized by Hobbes, and whose fundamental principle was the testimony of the senses. Opposing the Cartesian theory of Innate Ideas, it started with the silly theory that the mind is but a tabula rasa—only a mirror in which external objects are reflected—a theory that was ultimately used by English deists and freethinkers in defence of their opinions, and which Hartley and Priestley, followed by Erasmus Darwin developed into a Materialistic Psychology wherein science, politics, religion and philosophy come to man through the sensations— in which, in fact, all our faculties are represented as only modifications of the sensations. Condillac introduced%the Lockian system into France, and carried it to extremes. Condillac’s school was based on “ transformed sensations,” with language placed as the actual source from which many of our faculties are produced—the last limit of sensualism, “ where mind disappears in matter, and the doctrine refuted by the lips of the dying Socrates reappears as the last word of Lockian sensualism,”—a system whose offshoo'ts are found in the cynical Deism of Voltaire, the coarse Sentimentalism of Rousseau, the swinish Naturalism of Holbacb, the full-fed Atheism of Helvetius, and many other developments not fit to be looked upon by a modest eye. “ Philosophers,” says the editor of The Shield, “ these men were not, but men gifted with eloquence, poetry and appeal, fit instruments to embrace any ‘ damned error,’ and to bless it and approve it with a text, hiding the grossness with fair ornament; fit apostles of a perverted conscience, to body forth the phantasies of a depraved heart in flimsy doctrines, shallow logic, and vile conceptions.” Passing by the skeptical philosophy of Hume,—historian, statesman, and pseudo-philosopher,— another outgrowth of Lockianism whose anti-theological consequences drew forth polemics from a number of Scottish philosophers, headed by Dr. Reid, we find Condillac’s doctrine still prevailing at the beginning of the present century, systematized in the unadorned sensualism of Cabanis, who would have thought only a secretion of the brain, with like ridiculous things,—causing a strong reaction in the theological school of De Bonald and De Lamen-nais. Another opposing tendency was formed in the elec-tic school of Victor Cousin, developed in France by the influence of Reid’s doctrines. Cousin’s electicism, from its Cartesian tendencies, finally drifted into Idealism. The Positivist school of Auguste Comte, an outgrowth of Empiricism and Socialism, and the product of the mathematical and positive sciences, taught that the science of society is impossible without the science of life; that the latter is impossible without the science of chemistry; and the latter, again, presupposes physics, which itself supposes mathematics. Comte makes himself ridiculous by totally denying the possibility of metaphysics. Comte’s.Positivism, which is but another name for Materialism, has many adherents in England and America, and has become, in a measure, popularized in the writings of the late G. H. Lewis, and his wife—George Eliot. Miss Bird’s “ Unbeaten Tracks in Japan,” just published, gives it as the universal doctrine of the pagan Japanese. After Hartley, Priestley, and the elder Darwin’s development of Locke’s system into psychological Materialism, comes the later school of James Mills, J. Stuart Mill, Bain, Charles Darwin, and Herbert Spencer, elaborating the materialistic doctrine into its logical conseqence, the system or theory known as Evolution. Darwinism, again, has been further developed (?) in Germany, where it is known as Haeckelism. Darwin admits the idea of Creation, although, he weakens its hold by admitting only secondary causes in Evolution, but Haeckel rejects it altogether, and avowedly recognizes only one force in the universe, the mechanical,—without, however, adducing any proof for his theory, or vestige of an argument to support it unless constant and monotonous reiteration may be deemed such. Herbert Spencer, the ablest advocate of the Darwinian
theory, gives pleasure to be the onlyetrue measure of life and future happiness; pain, either ultimate or proximate, the concomitant of actions that are wrong—a doctrine absolutely fatal to morality in its tendenev, and doing away entirely with every form of religion. There can be no compromise : tbe dry, hard logic of this greatest English authority on Evolution, carried to its final conclusions, excludes all knowledge of a Creator and possibility of His work; it rejects the supernatural in religion, begets doubt and nihilism in philosophy, anarchy in politics, and in morals would sanctify all that is vile and impure. “ False philosophy has permeated literature, religion, and morals, until the whole world is again almost pagan, with Atheism for doctrine and Epicureanism for morals; Satan preached it six thousand years ago in the garden of Eden, and the nineteenth century has revived it. Rationalism has been weighed and found wanting; and the ‘ mane, theckd, phares' has already attracted the attention of the watchers of the time.” Such is the substance of E. J. O’S.’s second paper on “ Half Hours with Modern Philosophers,” the reading of which recalls much that is instructive. He might have added that the Catholic Church has been, even by its enemies, recognized as the only barrier of any consequence that opposes the advancing flood of paganism in the guise of philosophy.
College Gossip.
—The Globe says that one of the first students in the Shiloh Baptist Theological Seminary has been expelled for writing an essay on the “Efficacy of Baptism in an Oilcloth Suit.”
—“ Henry Holt is one of the very limited number of New York publishers who may be called thoroughly educated. He is a graduate of Yale and still a student, as well as a bibliopole.”
—A sweet girl graduate in June last read an essay entitled “ Employment of Time.” Her composition was based on the text “Time wasted is existence; used, is life.” Yesterday she bought eight ounces of zephyr of different shades, and commenced working a sky-blue dog, with seagreen ears and a pink tail, on a piece of yellow canvas. She expects to have it done by Christmas.—Bz.
—A story, apparently of Sophomore origin, is told about one of the present Yale Freshmen. It is to the effect that he went to New Haven twenty years ago and passed the examination, but did not enter. He went into business, married, and prospered until now, when he has arranged his business so that he can leave it for four years, he has brought his family to New Haven and entered the college.
—Under the heading “ The Sexes at Harvard,” The Chicago Tribune of October the Sth gives the following item:
“ There is trouble at Harvard, on account of the admission of girls as students, an innovation that was recently made. It appears that the college has a large library, provided with ‘authorities’and sofa-seats, where the students go to refresh their memories upon certain points in their studies, and the complaint is that girls will get down some work of which there is only one copy in the library, and when a young man comes in and desires the same book, he is obliged to wait until the girl gets through with it, or sit down and look it through with her. On a recent occasion a venerable professor entered the library and was surprised to see no less than six girls with books that young men were desirous of perusing, so desirous, in fact, that the two were seated together, eagerly scanning the pages, when the professor entered. The sight fairly caused the glass in his spectacles to bulge out, and it would be a mild expression to say he was shocked. He at once enquired the cause of this extraordinary desire for information that had so suddenly spruno" up, and the young men told him plainly that there must be duplicate copies of the books procured, so that the girls could have one, and the young men the other. He said he would attend to it the first thing in the morning, and then the old Puritan glared around the room at the girls, who, poor things, were sitting with their noses close down to the pages of their books, and were studying as though their hearts would break. Then he coughed, a couple of times, vaguely, and then he had the decency to go out,”	-
108
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, October 89, 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct-
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take- it.
Terms, Si.50 per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favur by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should bo made at the office of publication, as, usuaUy, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—Dr. John Buchanan, of Philadelphia, has been fined §1,000 and sentenced to a year’s imprisonment for selling bogus medical diplomas.—The Emerald.
The scoundrel should have been imprisoned for life. Furthermore, either the law is lax or the judge himself should be impeached and imprisoned for life. If Buchanan is not actually a murderer, he has wilfully and deliberately connived at murder by sending out from his so-called college or “ doctor ’’-factory hundreds of “ licensed ” quacks to prey upon humanity. These quacks are now “practising,” in hundreds, both in this country and Europe; where are the disclosures that were to have been made concerning them, and Buchanan’s accomplices, in the course of murderer Buchanan’s examination? We have neither seen nor heard anything of them through the newspapers. Can it be that “ Dr.” Buchanan has opened a “ bar’l,” and hushed up the affair, together with buying himself off with a year’s imprisonment ? Will the press, the medical fraternity and the Bar submit to such imposition being practised in the name of law ?
—The Toledo Sunday News of Oct. 16, quotes the following item which appeared in the daily papers of that city last Thursday:
“There are now in the offices of the different scalpers in the cities between Chicago, St Louis and Boston, a large number of counterfeit tickets of-the different railways East and West, and
in order to protect their business, the different railway companies have found it necessary to issue instructions to conductors not to receive for passage any tickets that have passed through the hands of scalpers. Therefore we present these facts to the public, cautioning all against purchasing tick; ets of any kind from offices not publicly known and recog-j nized as regular ticket offices of the companies over which transportation is desired.”
We have given this matter a little investigation, and as a result of the same are prepared to state that a large number of counterfeit tickets have been put upon the public, that these tickets came through the hands of scalpers, and that the proof is overwhelming that certain scalpers are in league with the counterfeiters. We do not say, nor even hint, that all scalpers are in this nefarious business, but we consider ticket-scalping a profession that does not place a man above suspicion. That the trusting public are imposed upon by scalpers cannot be denied. The victims usually are strangers, often emigrants. We know whereof we write, for we have been victimized ourselves by the professional scalper. We have no criticism to offer on whatever defence these gentlemen see ‘flt to make, if they feel that the eyes of the public are directed to them; but when they claim that there are no bogus tickets afl >at, and that some one is endeavoring to injure them, and that conductors have not been instructed to refuse certain tickets, .they make a great mistake, and when they try to make a defence for the whole scalping fraternity, to make use of a homely expression, they ‘ bite off more than they can chew.’
------------- -------------
—The Univeesity of-Notke Dame.—The 38th academic year of this justly popular institution of learning begins on the 7th of this month, under the most favorable auspices. There is, probably, no university in this country which affords the facilities for religious and intellectual training, combined, equal to Notre Dame, and certainly none possesses superior advantages in point of healthful and beautiful location. Here the student, secluded, in a measure, from the busy world without, is isolated from temptation, surrounded by picturesque scenery, provided with every facility for learning, afforded enjoyment and healthful recreation by association and the numerous literary, musical, dramatic and athletic societies. The course of study, divided in two terms, include all branches common to a university curriculum, and a few that are not. Law, medicine, and telegraphy may be mentioned among the special studies, and Isaac Pitman’s Phonography will be introduced this year. Wemay be able next year to publish an engraving of the new and magnificent College buildings.
Parents who wish to give their sons a superior education— mental, moral, and physical—are strongly recommended to communicate with the President,—Rev. Thos E. Walsh, Notre Dame, Ind.—The American Shorthand Writer, Boston, AI ass.
■ The editor of The Shorthand Writer naturally touchesupon the business departments; he may not be aware that music, drawing, and painting are also prepared for and conducted on an extensive scale here. There are three Professors of Music and three Professors of different branches of draw, ing and painting, in the college; one of the latter is the celebrated Prof. Luigi Gregori, of Rome, Italy. Prof. Gregor! is a master in all the branches of artistic drawing and painting, and, notwithstanding his brief sojourn in this country he has already an established reputation as a portrait painter; The telegraph department here is under the direction of a practical electrician and telegrapher, and the course of study and practice is as thorough as the most exacting could wish. Our embryo “ lightning-slingers ’’ are enthusiasts in the business, and make good progress—both of which facts reflect great credit on their teacher, as it is evident that he inspires them with some of his own enthusiasm. Those who think a telegrapher merely one who is a dexterous “ writer ” and “ receiver,” fall wofully short of the mark. A good telegrapher must,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
109
besides, be somewhat of an electrician, and know how to regulate his jars, wires, and “instruments.” The fact that the college possesses a telegraph and telephone station— a branch office of the great Western Union line—gives our students special advantages and enables them to become thoroughly posted in the business. The Munson system of phonography has been heretofore taught in the institution ; it is an excellent system, and has been changed, not for any lack of excellence but merely on account of a change of teachers; ill health compelling the former teacher to seek a change of climate, a Pitman writer has taken his place. As to the excellence of the latter system there can be no doubt; it may be enough to say that the fastest reporter in the world, Thos. Allen Reed, of London, Eng., and many of the best reporters in this country and Canada, including those in the Senate and House of Representatives, write this system either in its purity or with very slight modifications.
With the foregoing advantages, accessory to or independent of the regular* classical, scientific and commercial courses of the University, it will be seen that but little can be left to wish for. Of the regular courses we may speak hereafter.
A Model Young Ladies’ Academy in Utah.
From a late number of the Salt Lake Tribune, containing a lengthy account of St. Mary’s Academy of that place, we quote the following:
“ The new school year of this noted institution, of learning began a week earlier than the other schools of the city, and everything now is in complete working order. As is well known, the school is under the management and control of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, who consider St. Mary’s Academy, at Notre Dame, Indiana, their home, and look up to it as the model which they would gladly reproduce here. There are twenty-one teachers in all, and every part of the work of the institution, from the school to the domestic labor, is done by them. Eight of them teach the classes in the English branches, four teach the classes in instrumental music, and one has charge of the vocal music; one teaches the French language, and being a native of Paris, using her mother-tongue to perfection, there will be no trouble about her accent. The teacher of German is also a native of Germany, and both she and the French preceptress are as perfectly acquainted with the English language as with that of their native tongue, an invaluable feature in an instructor of languages being that both the language taught and the speech in which it is being taught should be equally familiar to the teacher.
“ The school is a three-story building on First East street, between First and Second South, west side, and is a substantial brick structure, erected on a plan which contemplates additons and wings from time to time as need requires. There are pleasant ornamental grounds in front, and gardens and ample play-grounds in the rear. These grounds have been laid out with care, and every tree has been, as it were, caressed into a thrifty growth by the most assiduous "care. The main entrance is on the east side of the building, and a broad stairway leads up to the top floor. For greater security to the boarders and inmates, and for safety in case of accident, an additional stairway has just been completed on the west side of the building, leading to all the floors. The reception room to the left of the main entrance is elegantly fitted up, and has in it a grand harp I
recently received from the East and costing §500. It is a magnificent instrument, and a splendid gift, of which the owners are justly proud. An elegant piano is also in this room, and a pleasant feature of this institution is that visitors, are here treated to a voluntary concert, both vocal and instrumental, by young ladies of the school, who exhibit great proficiency in the musical art.
“The vocal music and art room is at the right of the chief entrance, and contains a piano, easels with paintings in oil and water-colors thereon, in various stages of advancement in perfection. The progress of the pupils here shows earnest application and great painstaking, and the copies of sketches are very creditable.
“ The study and recitation rooms are light, airy, roomy places, where the process ofeducation is patiently performed in never-ending drill and training. The great aim of the school, in the department of education, is to instil into the minds of the pupils a thorough knowledge and sound training in the practical branches of education. In the use of the English language, there is the most strict and comprehensive instruction and practice. Correctness of ex. pression, the writing of letters, compositions, essays, etc., are all required; and in all the work the highest standard of excellence and proficiency is expected, as the pupil gains in knowledge. Herein the treatment of the pupils is of the most thorough character. Aside from that which is absolutely required of all, however, there are ample facilities, for those who are so inclined, to pursue their studies in the higher departments, including algebra aud geometry in mathematics, higher grammar and literature, history, both ancient and modern, rhetoric, physiology, the languages, etc., as far as they wish to go. For, we believe, it is true that in all appropriate studies there can be no demand for instruction which will not be met and supplied by those in charge of this school.
“On the upper floor are the dormitories, neat, cheerful, pleasant rooms, thoroughly ventilated, and affording extremely picturesque views of the city. They contain a number of beds, with curtains depending upon rods around each, by means of which each bed may be secluded; each one has a wash-stand, etc., for the use of the occupant. A prefect sleeps in each of the dormitories to have oversight of the young ladies, and to keep them in order. Eich of the boarders is required to keep her own sleeping arrangements in perfect order, and to make her bed in a neat manner; and if, on inspection, there is any fault, the remiss one is required to attend to it instantly. All the arrangements of this department are of the first order. There are over sixty boarders, the remainder of the pupils, upwards of one hundred and sixty in all, being day scholars.
“Descending the stairway, we come to the Library, which contains a most excellent selection of historical and literary works, well designed to assist the pupils in their mental advancement. There are also a large number of fine cabinet specimens here. On the first floor, and west of the reception room, is a beautiful and spacious chapel, where all the Catholic pupils attend Mass every morning. The religious belief of pupils is not interfered with in the least, and all denominations are to be found represented in the Academy.
“ Returning to the audience room, a most admirable fea-tureof the school immediately became apparent. Several of the pupils were sent for, and at the request of the Superior one sang for the company an agreeable song, accompanying herself upon the piano; another gave a very
110t	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
fine piano solo; another delivered a declamation, with great animation and a good deal of dramatic force and power; another played a solo on the guitar; another sang a guitar song, playing on the instrument at the same time; and it was noticeable that whatever was requested was undertaken at once, without any hesitation, no excuses and request to be excused being offered. It is a result which speaks loudly in praise of the system of discipline of the establishment, and is altogether commendable; not less so than the high state of proficiency which each pupil displayed.
“The classes of the school are well graded, and there are regular systems of examinations, monthly, semi-annually and yearly, by means of which promotions are made from one to the other. Aside from the general class promotions, (which are made only on the most satisfactory evidence of substantial advancement, and not merely with reference to the length of time the pupils have been engaged on the study,) there are facilities by which the studious and deserving pupil may also receive individual promotion as a reward for well-directed application.
“The classes are graded as follows: The Minim Class, the second Junior Class, the first Junior Class, the second Intermediate Class, the first Intermediate Class, the Senior Preparatory Class, the third Senior Class, the second Senior Class, the first Senior Class.
“The Graduating Class, in addition to the studies embraced in the foregoing, perfect themselves in music, painting, etc., and finish geometry and plane trigonometry.
“ Throughout all the classes there runs like a silver cord the drill in orthography, reading, and written exercises, to perfect the pupils in the use of the English language, and to so train them that they need not be afraid or ashamed to see any of their letters or business work submitted to anybody’s criticism. This is an excellent and desirable feature of the school.
“Special attention is devoted to music, and great care is exercised in vocal culture. The young ladies show in their singing the results of severe study and patient training. The instrumental facilities are especially ample, there being eight pianos, an organ, pnd a magnificent harp, besides guitars, zitherns, etc. There are nine classes in music, and there is abundant and special instruction in all departments, as also in drawing, and painting in water-colors and in oil. The special instruction in these is aside from the regular course, but all the school are taught the elements of vocal music and drawing as part of their ordinary instruction. The instruments however, numerous as they are, are constantly going, and would not suffice for half the music pupils did not many practise at home. Several ladies from this city go to the Academy for vocal and instrumental instruction, the repute of the success of the teaching in these departments is so great, as evidenced by the great number under vocal instruction. The same is true of the painting and drawing; ladies from the city also attend for instruction in oil and water-colors.”
“ There is, besides all this, instruction for the girls in plain sewing, one afternoon a week being devoted to it, and the boarders are every Saturday required to do their own darning and mending, and to do it well. If they do not do it well they must take out the stitches and begin again, as it is all inspected, and thus great care and thoroughness are inculcated,
“ The laundry of the establishment is in the rear, and is kept in the neatest condition and in the best of order.
“All the teachers are thoroughly trained to their work, having had in the home Institution of St. Mary’s, at Notre Dame, Indiana, the most thorough instructions by the best educators the country affords. They have, in addition, the experience of years in the work. They are in earnest in their effort to do all that in them lies for the good of those entrusted to their care, and their work is for their lives. They supervise all the actions of the young people they have in charge, a prefect being constantly in attendance, at play, study, work, or whatever they are doing. Thus everything vicious is suppressed, and no unladylike habits can become fixed. No one need fear for the good habits and character of young ladies in this establishment.
“ There has been an increase in the attendance of this school every year from the first. And this year the at tendance, at this early stage of the school year, is unusually good, giving promise of a more prosperous and useful season than ever before. The work being done by the school is a good and commendable one, in which all well-wishers of society and civilization must be glad to see it grow and expand to meet the great requirements of this Territory.
THE BOY’S SCHOOL.
“In addition to St. Mary’s Academy, and near by it, is a school for young boys, also in charge of the same persons. They are mostly from four to nine or ten years of age, but are retained till twelve, or in exceptional cases a little longer. There are fifty-five to sixty boys in this school, divided into two classes, each class in two divisions. They pursue the ordinary elementary English studies, and are also instructed in the elements of music and drawing in the regular course. Part of the boys are domisciled on the premises, and part are day pupils.
“This is a very useful department of the school, and it is doing a good work. It is a necessary feature of the educational work these good people have undertaken, and we are glad to note that it is both popular and successful. In this, as in all their work, the Slaters have the appreci. ation and good wishes of all the people, to which The Tribune most heartily adds its own.”
Personal.
—P. Flanagan, ’72, is employed in Dunn’s Agency, Nashville, Tenn.
—Frank C. Luther, ’78, is travelling for a wholesale house in New York city.
—Peter Tamble, ’76, is in the Trustees’ Office of Davidson & Co., Nashville, Tenn.
—Otto Waterman (Com.), ’74, is in business at Nashville, Tenn., and is getting on nicely.
—	Will R. Van Valkenberg, ’78, is engaged in the hardware business with his father at Huntsville, Ala.
—	Samuel A. Marks (Com.), ’74, is in business in Cheyenne city, Wyoming Territory, and is doing finely.
—	Otto Ludwig, of ’75 and ’76, is with the firm of Far-well, Miller & Co., wholesale grocers, Chicago, Ill.
—	Frank Sweger (Com.), ’74, is with James Smith & Co. wholesale grocers, on Lake St., Chicago, and is prospering.
—	Jos. E. Marks (Commercial), ’74, is with A. O. Slaughter, Chicago, engaged in the brokerage business. Joe is doing well.
—	Chas A. Kreiter (Com.), ’74, is at present in Can-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ill
yon City, Col., prospecting, but will return to Toledo during the coming month.
—Our friend, R. Le Bourgeois, of ’81, writes from the land of “Oranges” and wishes to be remembered to all his friends. Bush is, at present, a clerk on the Steamer Harlan, of the Morgan line.
—J. Morton Burge (Com.), '75, spent the past year in San Francisco, Cal. He is expected at his home, Nashville, Tenn., about the first of next month. Mort is enjoying the best of health, and is doing well.
—Mr. Jas. A. Browne of Brownsville, Texas, a student of ’72-76, was married on the 20th uit., at Austin, Texas, to Miss Agnes Powers, daughter of the Hon. S. Powers, of Brownsville. May your future career be as successful as your college course, Jim.
—Ed. W. Robinson (Com.), ’78, is engaged as Sup’t. and Manager of the shipping department of his uncle’s extensive lumber business at Mullview, Fla. It is the largest concern of the kind in the State, having manufactured twenty-five million feet last year. By the addition of a new double mill, constructed this season, they will cut this year forty million feet, valued at §600,000. They have the largest lumber yard around New York city. Ed. wishes te be remembered to all his old friends at Notre Dame.
Local Items.
—“ Stonewall ” has returned.
—“ I wot not, neither do I reck.”
—Sammy doesn’t like the new edition.
—“ Oh! I was running yesterday, Prof.”
—“Mark Anthony” would like to be a masher.
—He will send “ Hec.” a present in a short time.
—George, will you sell your share of the College ?
—He complains of too much lip. It was a pill-0!
—Geo. Schafer has charge of the Junior play hall.
—The Ohio big four are learning to play handbill.
—The Columbian Club is in a flourishing condition.
—Our aquatic men are preparing for winter quarters.
—The Juniors have the finest flowers at Notre Dame.
—“Joe Peach” has retired from the field of literature.
—Oliver W. Holmes has many friends: he has a “ box.”
—The Juniors enjoyed a good walk, Thursday afternoon.
—Thursday was the most enjoyable “ rec.” day thisyear.
—Monthly Bulletins will be made out next Thursday.
—Competition in the Preparatory Course the coming week.
—The hedge hogs’ subtraction is an addition to the Juniors.
—The Philopatrians boast of having the best vocalists in the College.
—Our friend John as an elocutionist is unsuccessful; his fort is singing.
—“ Tige ” will put on the war-paint if he is not left alone. Young man, he knows you.
■ —Kuhn said “ the oyster supper of Saturday night made the boys b oysterous.,,
—He didn’t see the point, but he felt it, judging from the way he stood up. Eh, Doc ?
—Lost: A solid gold ring. The finder will confer a favor on the owner by leaving it with Bro. Leander.
—Three weeks ago, twenty-four new desks were ordered for the Junior study-hall; at present only four are unoccupied.
—An excellent game of football was played on the Junior Campus, between the teams “Red” and “Blue,” Thursday afternoon.
—Who are those Seniors who congregate in the south east corner of the study-hall and watch the students as they file past to church ?
-AYe are under obligations to Ed. W. Robinson, of Mill
view, Florida, for favors received. Thanks, Ed. More of the same sort will be acceptable.
—Do you know the reason some Juniors excel Seniors ? it is because the former do not use tobacco in any way, while the latter are confirmed users of the weed.
—The Lemonnier Library and the College Library have been consolidated under the management of the Lemonnier Library Association. This is as it should be.
—We wish it to be distinctly understood that the Scholastic is thoroughly and entirely a college paper, devoted to the interests of the College and students, and hereafter any matter foreign to this design will find no place in its columns. - "
—To-morrow Hfissa de Angelis will be sung. Vespers, of a Confessor, Bishop, p. 48 of Vesperal. Next Tuesday, Feast of All Saints, SRssa Regia will be sung. Vespers, p. 214 of Vesperal. Next_ Wednesday, Commemoration of All Souls, Mass for the ; lead, p. 1 * of the Kyriale.
—The Sorin Cadets were drilled by Col. Otis, on Tuesday night, Rev. Prof. Zahm’s electric light turning night into day, and giving to the drilling a rather romantic aspect. Father Zahm knew what would please the Minims when he brought the electric light to their campus.
—Rev. Father Zahm favored us with a fine exhibition of the new electric light, on Friday night. The light was both large and brilliant, and the Minims enjoyed a good game of football while the lamp remained in position. Evening drills cm the Campus will soon be in order.
—A dispatch from Washington states that “ the notion still prevails extensively in China and Japan that Gen. Grant is the Emperor of America.” Our friends in China ind Japan are mistaken: the Emperor of America is a man named Muldoon. He gives §50 to any man whom he cannot knock out of time in four rounds. Hong Kong and Yeddo papers please copy.
—The Minims wish to give a public expression of their thanks to Very Rev. Father General for the beautiful St. Edward cake he presented them. Although the number of his young favorites is greater than usual this year the splendid frosted pyramid was more than amply large enough to satisfy all. They wish the donor a long life and many happy returns of his feast-day.
—The 4th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on the 22d. Compositions were read by Masters Rene Papin, of St. Louis, Mo.; Jose Chaves, Belen, N. M.; Francis Nester, Saginaw City, Mich.; Masters William Welch, of Des Moines, Iowa, and W-Devine, Chicago, III., delivered declamations. Au extern, pore debate was held by Masters D. O’Connor, Chicago; W. Berthelet, Milwaukee; J. McGrath, Chicago; E. Nash, W. Liberty, Ohio, and J. Nester, Saginaw City, Mich-v—Mr. Clem. Studebaker has secured for his valuable collection of paintings three artistic gems from Prof. Gre-gori’s atelier. Two of the pictures are delineations of Italian life. The third is entitled Young America, and represents a boy of five summers at an open window waving the stars and stripes. Mr. Studebaker possesses one of the finest art collections in this part of the country. We un derstand it is his intention to erect an art gallery similar to those owned by many private families in Europe.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Tuesday, Oct. 18th. Mr. E. Smith was elected to membership. The judges rendered decision of last week’s debate in favor of the affirmative. Extemporaneous debate, “That we Receive no Benefit by.Be-ing a Member of the Columbians,” was warmly debated by Messrs. Zettler, Kuhn, Browne, Marlett, and O’Reilly, on the negative; and by Messrs Falvey, Johnson, Kingel, and Farrell, on the affirmative; after which the meeting adjourned.
—Rev. Prof. Zahm has been endeavoring for some time past to perfect arrangements by which the students will be enabled to take recreation after supper. On Tuesday and Wednesday nights he illuminated the Minim grounds with the electric light. On Tuesday night the Minims, and on Wednesday night the Juniors, under Col. Olis, U. S. A., had a drill. The display was such as to show that Father Zahm’s idea of illuminating all the grounds is a practical one, and will be carried into effect if
112
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
he receives proper assistance from the Faculty and students.
—The 7th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association was held Oct. 24th. Masters Kitz,-Bruster, and Graham presented themselves for membership, and were unanimously elected. Masters L. Gibert, Peters, Bailey, Saviers, F. Campau, A. Campau, D. Smith, F. Deschamp, and H. Snee, appeared to advantage in various musical selections. Declamations were delivered by L. Rodgers, J. Devine, A. Richmond, G. Tourtillotte and J. Flynn. Readings were given by F. Fishel, W. Ayers, P. Yrisarri, and H. Devitt. W. H. Johnson expressed his ideas upon the debating of certain important questions. The Choral Union closed the exercises with a patriotic song.
;	—To-day was the seventh anniversary of Rev. President
Lemonnier’s departure for the better world. According to - custom his grave was beautifully decorated with flowers ; by the Cecilians, Columbians ana other friends who cher-■ ish his memory. We hope and believe that the devoted remembrance in which he is held did not allow them to stop here, but that they also remembered him in the Holy / Sacrifice of the Mass and offered Holy Communion for the repose of his soul. Few men of the past had so en-' deared themselves to students and everybody at the Ool-I lege as had Rev. Father Lemonnier, and to-day, we have no 1 doubt, his memory is as green in the hearts of the old stu-• dents as it was seven years ago. With all our heart we say Hequiescat in pace !
—We consider ourselves highly honored in having received through the mail, during the past week, the following choice specimens of literature directed to sundry individuals who, no doubt, intend to become bright lights in the future history of the West. “ Tiger Tom, the Texan Terror,” “ Tom Tanner, Scalawag and Scapegrace; Or, The Black Sheep of the Flock.” It is hardly necessary to state that those choice specimens of literature did not reach their destination, and it is also hardly necessary to add that we have not a very exalted opinion of the writer, printer, sender or reader of such trash, and furthermore all our efforts and influence will be directed towards destroying or suppressing all such contemptible matter that may fall into our way.
—The 3.1 regular meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held Sunday, Oct. the 23d. The following gentlemen honored the Society with their presence: Rev. Father Stoffel, Bro. Paul, Col. E A. Otis, and Mr. E. West, of Burlington Ohio. Bro. Basil kindly acted as organist. The ten-minute’s instruction was given by Rev. Father Hudson. G. E. Clarke read an excellent paper on the benefits derived from the Archconfraternity. E. C. Orrick read a paper on the Bible, and F. E. Kuhn a-paper on Communion. The following were appointed to prepare papers for the next meeting: W. B. McGorrisk on Good Reading, E. A. Otis, Jr., and J. A. McIntyre on the Catholic Doctrine of Purgatory. The meeting adjourned after remarks by Rev. Father Walsh.
—The Minims overcrowded the Music Hall to such an extent that additional pianos became a necessity. The first one has already been purchased from the popular piano house of W. W. Kimball, State and Adams streets, Chicago, which has lately opened a branch establishment in South Bend. We understand that St. Mary’s Academy has also purchased several of the Kimball pianos, and find them excellent instruments. When we saw the recent accounts of the extraordinarily numerous sales of Kimball pianos in the South Bend papers we could not conceive what they meant; but we are now told that the excellence and cheapness of the Kimball instruments have given them au unprecedented popularity. Mr. S. D. Roberson, of the old Post-Office Building, is the agent in South Bend.	•
—The drill of the Junior Cadets on the Campus, Wednesday evening last, after supper, was an inspiriting affair. The bright glow shed by the electric light upon the Campus, the thundering tones of the commanding officer, Col.E. A. Otis, U. S. A.—reminding one somewhat of the 15-ton bell in the church tower—and the graceful military maneuvers of the students, formed an .‘interesting tableau. Wnat a voice the Col. possesses! We understand
his leave of absence expires shortly, and that he returns to the West to take care of the Indians. The Col., who is a grandson of Daniel Boone, the Kentucky pioneer, must have been, like his predecessor, a terror to the red-skins. We regret to hear that he is about to leave us. As he is now well on in years and has seen much active service, might he not obtain permission to retire from the army and devote himself to the training of embryo high privates, colonels, brigadiers, etc., who in case of emergency would use this training to advantage ?
To the Editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Dear Sir:—“I was so pleased with all I saw and heard during my late brief visit to your far-famed University, that I feel in duty bound to inform my friends of it, through the columns of your excellent journal. Having visited the various departments with mixed wonder and admiration, the Minim Department took me completely by surprise. In setting apart such a spacious and comfortable building for the exclusive use of young students, Notre Dame has supplied a want long and sorely felt by fond parents and anxious guardians. I was indeed surprised at the perfect appointments of the building and the earnest care with which their every childish want is attended to by their kind and gentle guardians—indeed everything is so thoroughly and carefully arranged as to supply, as far as possible, all a fond parent’s ministrations. Allow me now, Mr. Editor, to give loose rein to my muse while sounding the praises of a youthful band of young Americans, to whom I had the pleasure of being introduced by their guardian angel, Very Rev. E. Serin.”
As I the Minim college chanced to pass,
Its gleeful inmates, just let loose, came bounding forth from class;
And, as they sported o’er the verdant lea, A vision meet for angel eyes to see, I sighed and wished I were a child again, As free as they from care and sin and pain.
While tripping o’er the fragrant, velvet lawn, Like blithe gazelle, or graceful timid fawn.
The new-mown grass, unseen by guardian brother, They flung playful in glee, o’er one another, Well knowing that what gave their young hearts joy Would not his kind and gentle soul annoy.
Their sunny smiles, since first from home they came To glad all hearts around sweet Notre Dame, Make nights more lovely than the finest day In other climes, I’ve heard the Seniors say;
And hence to them these children are most dear, For all is sunshine when then.- steps draw near.
They’re destined yet to grace exalted places,	*
And landmarks leave to guide aspiring races,
Whose watch-word, in their onward march to fame, Will be the thrilling name of Notre Dame;
Since ’tis agreed, as all wise men must know, “ As twigs are bent, the trees are sure to grow.”
No wonder Father Sorin loves them well, _ Since he’s repaid in kind, the truth to tell, ' So sweetly do they act their childish part, That they have forced a passage to his heart, As when one loves to view the radiant skies Because he knows that heaven in them lies.
J. Blair.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has giver entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabet-cal order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, W. H. Bailey, E. J. Bryant, W. J. Browne, J. F. Browne, J. M. Boose, F. M. Bell, R Becerra, M. T. Burns, 8. G-Clements, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, T. F. Clarke, W. A. Connor, J. C. Concannon, W. Cleary, C. E. Cripe, G. Clarke, J. Drury, J. P. Delaney, D. Danahy B. Eaton, E. J. Eager, F. Ewing, B. E. Fleming, J. Farrell, T. F. Flynn, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburn, J. J. Flynn, F. W. Gallagher, W. W. Gray, A. J Golonski, F. Grever, H. A. Hagan, T. D. Healey, M. F. Healy, A. Jones, A. T. Jackson, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella F. E, Kuhn,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
113
J. Kindel, A. Huntsman, M. Livingston, H. Letterhos, J. Larkin, J. R. Marlett, G. E. McErlain, W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, C. J. McDermott, J. A. McIntyre, H. W. Morse, J. F. Martin, W. Mc-Gorrisk, E. McGorrisk, W. McEniry, J. Nash, H. Noble, B. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, J. P. O’Neill, W. J. O’Connor, F. O'Ronrke, E. C. Orrick, J. N. Osher, E. A. Otis, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, S. Perley, L. Proctor, P. Rasche, W. E. Ruger, A. P. Schindler, J. E. Schalk, W. Schofield, J. Solon, H. Steis, E. Smith, C. A. Tinley, E. J. Taggart, W. M. Thompson, G. S. Tracy, I. Treon, S. B. Terry, F. Wheatley, J. A. Weber, F. 8. Weber, J. E. Walsh, E. D. Yrisarri, A. F. Zahm, R. Anderson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. ’
P. H. Archer, A. W. Ayers, A. A.Browne, W. F. Bacon, W. H. Barron, A. W. Brewster, G. B. Buchanan, A. J. Campau, J. M. Courtney, A. M. Coghlin, W. L. Coghlin, A. M. Chirhart, W. J. Cavanaugh, J. L. Castillo, G. L. Deschamp, M. Dolan, J. E. Drendel, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, E F. Fenton, J. C. Felix, Ed. Fischel, Fred Fischel* W. E. Freyermuth, J. H. Fendrick, R. French, J. Friedman, L. F. Florman, M. L. Foote, H. G. Foote, M. S. Gooley, E. B. Gerlach, J. W. Guthrie, A. A. Gall, P. G. Hoffman, H. NT. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, T. J. Hurley, E. A. Howard, G. J. Haslam, W. F. Hanavin, J. L. Heffernan, J. Halligan, W. H. Johnston, J .M. Kelly, C. C. Kollars, O. Kempf, J. F. Kahman, F. H. Kengel, H. A. Kitz, S. Katz, S. Lipman, T. C. Lund, J. Livingston, J. S. McGrath, J. T. McGordon, F. H. McPhillips C. M. Murdock, S. T. Murdock, W. H. McCarthy, N.J. Nelson, J. T. Neeson, J. E. Orchard, F. Orsinger, J. P. O’Donnell, J. V. O’Donnell, W. P. Pinkstaff, H. P. Porter, C. F. Porter, T. C. Ryan, S. Rosenheim, A. L. Richmond, C. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, J. C Ruppe, W. J. Ruprecht, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, H. C. Snee, C. D. Saviers, G. H. Schaefer, E. J. Schmitt, E. G. Tappan, D. G. Taylor, G. E. Tourtilotte, A. T. Taggart, D. Thomas, T. Williams, J. E. Warner, J. W. Whelan, M. J. Wilbur, P. J. Yrisarri, J. E. Zaehnle.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
—J. H. Dwenger, C. H. McGordon, W. Prindiville, R. V. Papin, M. McDevitt, A. J. Frain, P. P. Johnson, F. I. Otis, J. L. Rose, E. P. Nash, C. Metz, L. J. Young, B. P. Powell, F. P. Nester, W. T. Berthelet, W. P. Devine, J. S. Chaves, H. J. Ackerman, C. S. Milburn, P. E. Campau, E. S. Chirhart, O. P. Dillon, J. A. Kelly, A. J. Kelly J. T. Kelly, H. C. Dlrksmeyer, F. J. Coad, F. 8. Whitney, J. Norfolk, E. McGrath, J. Tong, M. T. Byrne, D. Prindiville, A. J. Otis, A. P. Roberts, E. Adams, M. Devereux.
Class Honors.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
M. Healy, F. Baker, W. Bolton, F. Dever, E. Taggart, A. Jackson, J. McIntyre, H. Gramling, 8. Huntsman, W. J. McCarthy, F. Kinsella, F. Paquette, W. O’Connor, W. Bailey, J. Walsh, H. Steis, G. Metz, W. Ruger, F. Wheatly, 0. Echlin, J. Courtney, L. Gibert, G. Castanedo, P. Yrisarri, A. Campau, F. Campau, H. Snee, W. Graham, T. Williams, F. Fenlon, T. Ryan, D. Taylor, A. Bailey, G. Kipper, G. Schaefer, F. Lund, J-Livingston, G. Deschamp, F. Fishel, E Fishel, H. Porter, D. Sa. viers, G. Tourtillotte, T. Hurley, S. Rosenheim, A. Coghlin, F. Grever, G. Haslam, H. Devitt, J. Murdock, C. Murdock, W. McCarthy, C. Messenger, M. Freyermuth, W. Cavanagh, C. Zeigler, E. Gerlach, B. Zekind, H. Kitz, C. Rose, J. H. Fendrick, G. Rhodius, F. Orsinger, F. Felix, J. Ruppe, W. Ruprecht, A. Gall, E. Gall, J. Friedman, W. Barron, S. Katy, E. Schmitt, N. Nelson, L. Florman, M. Wilbur, V. Rivand, L. Rivaud, J. Gallagher, J. O’Donnell, E. Eager, E. Yrisarri, L. Calligari, E. Otis, E. Orrick, E. Cripe, J. Concannon, W. Connor, J. Kindle, J. Marlett, W. W. Gray, F. Bell, A. Schiml, B. Noble, F. Grever, H. Morse, W. McEniry, J. M. Boose, B. Eaton, F. Kuhn, F. Ward, J. Zet-tler, J. Flynn, A. Schiml, J. Heffernan, J. Larkin, J. Lama, J. White, A. Chirhart.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Donn P. Piatt, D. A. O’Connor, J. F. Nester, J. J. McGrath, F. I. Otis, W. P. Devine, W. Welch, W. Prindiville, J. H. Dwenger, W. T. Berthelet, E. P. Nash, F. P. Nester, M. E. Devitt, C. H. McGordon, W. J. Miller, D. L. McCawley, L. J. Young, C. Metz, R. V. Papin, B. P. Powell, J. McGrath, J. S. Chaves, P. E. Campau, C. Campau, O. P. Dillon, A. J. Kelly, J. A. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, C. D. Brandon, H. J. Ackerman, J. A. Frain, P. P. Johnson, H. C. Dirkmeyer, F. J. Coad, F. 8.
Whitney, M. T. Byrne, J. Norfolk, F. Scott, V. A. Rebori, A. P. Roberts, G. V. Gibson, Y. Ellis, J. L. Rose, J. 3. Beall, L.P. Graham, H. Hynes, P. S. Gibson,D. Prindiville, J.Tong, C. Quinlan, A. J. Otis, E. McGrath, E. S. Chirhart,
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
German—W. Berthelet, W. Prindiville, J. Ruppe, F. Fischel, F. Murphy, J. Courtney, M. Healy; French—E. Orrick, J. O'Donnell; Instrumental Music----; Elocution—C. Tinley, E. Orrick, M. Healy, G. Tracy, W. Gray, E. McGorrisk, J. • O’Neil], G.Clarke, J. Solon. A. Zahm, F. Quinn, T. Healy; Telegraphy—A. Jackson, J. Guthrie, G. Metz, F. Wheatly, J. Schalk, J. Schindler, F. Wheatly, J. Drury, J. Barry.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
CT ZE WELR/Y.
All Kinds of Engraving’ Dono.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAIN TIA G and SCULPTURE.
(Notre Dame P. 0., I thana,) Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross,
Tn the Academy the course is thorough In the Preparatory, Academic, and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises alarge music-hall,jand twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, ana organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition.—A large musical library in French, German, English, and Italian. Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING-, AND SCULPTURE
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life’and the antique. A choice Library of the Flue Arts in English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish is connected -with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Miss De La Barre, from Fails, a sculptress and artist of acknowledged superiority, has been engaged for three years as an addition to the regular corps of teachers in the School of Fainting and Sculpture.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address	____
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
114
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
(Removed to Boston, j&Eass.)
SHORT-HAND
TAUGHT BY MAIL IN 12 LESSONS, FOR Si.50.
The growing interest in Phonography has created a de mand for a Periodical to teach the Art, in a series of Lessons comprehensive, detailed and thorough. The
AMERICAN SHORT-HAND WRITER, '
taking the initiative, is tire only Magazine in the World that teaches Phonography. A full course given every year, one complete Lesson each month, and the Exercises of all Learn-6IS
CORRECTED THROUGH THE MAH.
free of charge. Those who prefer to learn in a briefer time than one year, may join our Correspondence Class and go through an entire course in either 10 or 20 weeks.
Single copy, containing First Lesson, mailed to any address for 15 cents.
Anyone wishing to learn this fascinating and valuable science are solicited to write at once for Free Descriptive Circular.
ROWELL & HICKCOX, •
BOSTON, MASS.
409 Washington Street.
Please mention the paper in which you saw this advertisement. *
JJR. D- M. CALVERT, Dentist,
Office, 69 Washington St. (over Alf. Klingtl’s Shoe Store,)
South Bend, Ind.
O’Coimor & Go.,
CHEMISTS AND DRTJG-G-ISTS
Royal Pharmacy,
PRINCE ARTHUR’S LANDING,
LA34H SUPER50R, ONTARIO, CANADA
Dealers in
Amethysts, Agates, Chlorastrolites, Catseyes, Thompsonites, Native Silver, and Copper Specimens, Quartz, Bog-tooth Spar, Indian Bark Work, etc.
Persons ordering.any of the above from a distance will have their orders carefully attended to.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—§125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
■ PROSPECTUS
OF
Browne’s Phonographic Monthly
_	AND
REPORTER’S JOURNAL, .	New York,
FOR THE YEAR 1S81.
ORGAN OF THE REPORTING PROFESSION.
This publication is now in its sixth volume. A course of lessons is being given by the editor, which will embrace all the latest improvements of the art as adapted by reporters during the past twenty years’ reporting As all instruction books are years behind the practice of the art, and do not contain any of the new principles introduced, these lessons will be found invaluable to all students.
Fac-Simtle Reporting Nc.tfs of leading stenographers will show word-forms and phrase-signs not to be found elsewhere, that will be useful as showing how little attention practical reporters pay to the expedients, devices, and contractions put down in the old instruction books and recommended by authors.
Portraits and Sketches will be given, which will be useful as showing what have been the struggles, trials and success of men eminent in' the profession. In this way an acquaintance will be made with these gentlemen that will be of lasting interest to old stenographers as well as to young men about to take up the art.
Besides being the only shorthand publication in America published promptly on time (the 15th of each month) it contains news, notices of new books, personal doings of stenographers, and communications from reporters throughout the world.
A Premium Holiday Number considerably enlarged and beautifully illustrated, will be Issued in December This number will be sold separately for §1.00. but to regular yearlv subscribers, who pay thesubseription price of §2 00. this number will be included without extra charge. To get the benefit of this splendid offer, subscriptions should be sent in now for a year’s numbers, and $2.00 must be forwarded to pay for the same in advance. Specimen copies of a late number will be sent to those desiring to see the publication before subscribing, by simply forwarding address to the publisher with a request for the same.
D. L. SCOTT-BROWNE,
Conductor and Publisher.
23 Clinton Place, New York City.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Great Short Route South, Southwest aud West.
May 15,1881. Local and Through Time Table. No. 22.
Going’	North.	STATIONS.	Going	South.
1.4o p m.	4.20 p.m.	Arrive	Leave - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m.	8 .”5 p.m.
1.00 “	3 35 “	- - - - La Porte, - -	10.23 “	S.55 “
12 35 “	3.14 “	- - - Stillwell, - - -	10.41 “	9.20 “
12.14 a m.	2.53 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.00 “	9.42 “
11.42 “	2.23 “	- - - Plymouth, - - -	11.35 “	10.21 “
X0.49 “	1.30 «	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12.27 p.m.	11.20 p.m.
0.12 “	12.51 “	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.06 “	11.57 “
9.50 “	12.30 p.m.	- - -	- Peru, - - - -	1.45 “	12.25 a.m
9.23 “	11.50 “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.05 “	12.48 “
8.50 “	11.18 “	- - - Kokomo, - - - - -	2.40 “	1.30 “
8.09 «	10.41 “	- - - - Tipton, - -	3.16 “	2.07 “
7.25 “	9.57 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4.00 “	2.48 “
6.25 p.m.	8.50 a.m.	Lv. - Indianapolis, - An.	5.00 “	3.45 “
THE ONLY LINE Running a noon Train out of Indianapolis for CHICAGO, Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principa7 Points in the EAST.
Eleeant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANAPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l. Manager, Indianopolis.	Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.