* Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disoe quasi semper vlcturus; vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 12, 1880.
Number 40.
June.
With tardy feet as Spring recedes
In all her grace her days have brought her,
Lo, in her stead, across the meads,
Comes June, the summer’s fairest daughter:
With roses in her tresses caught,
Her lightsome tread the greensward presses, While balmy winds with odors fraught,
Infold her form in their caresses.
At sight of her Apollo mends	•
His courses through the blue expanses,
From closer range on earth descends
The ardor of his burning glances;
At earlier hour day’s portals ope
Beneath the pressure of his fingers;
And when he nears the western slope, Tn slower march his chariot lingers.
Now from the over-crowded streets.
Whose torrid heat the city parches,
The multitudes seek cool retreats
By breezy shores or woodland arches;
Winged vessels skim the foamy tide,
Strong steamers plough the briny billows,
And Venus walks the shore beside,
While Cupid lurks beneath the willows.
1 know a spot where seaward dips
A circling beach from fields of clover,
Where twice each day, with eager lips,
The ocean, like a giant lover,
Comes in to kiss the sands that pout
Beneath his stalwart, fierce embraces, And twine his amorous arms about
The beauties of their dimpled faces.
Thither, when summer days grow hot,
I fly the city’s close environs
And seek the quiet of that spot,
Where, sweet as sang the fabled syrens,
The echoes of the rolling surf
Float over clover-covered meadows
And in broad lines across the turf
The willows fling their grateful shadows.
Oh, sweet is it, no doubt, to sit
And view the rose’s crimson blushes
When bright-winged Insects come and flit
Among the blossoms of the bushes;
But when thermometers declare
That Mercury his wings discloses, The freshness of the seaside air
Discounts the odor of the roses.
—W. in The Pilot.
Food and Health.	‘
THE HROCESS OF DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION.
V.
Having treated in my last paper of the organs of digestion, it now remains for me to show the different changes the food undergoes in its passage down the alimentary canal, and its absorption by the blood-vessels and lacteals till it mixes with the circulation of the blood, by which it is brought in contact with the tissues of the body, to build up their structure and to repair the waste caused by the mechanical functions of the body.	'
The first step in the passage of the food through the alimentary canal is, of course, its reception into the cavity of the mouth. In the adult, the grasping of the food by the mouth is undoubtedly a voluntary act; but very frequently this takes place quite independently of the wilt In the lower animals all acts of the body are guided by instinct, as animals from their very nature have nd will, and therefore the grasping of food with them is not voluntary but instinctive. The child, too, takes its food more by instinct than by will. The food, then, having entered the mouth is first subjected to the process' of triturating or grinding by the teeth, which is called mastication. In herbivorous animals this process has, evidently, to be carried out to a very great extent, living as they do on the tough fibres of grass, roots, and hard grain. Indeed in the ruminants one ordeal is not sufficient; for the food, after being swallowed, is brought back to the mouth to undergo further reduction by the teeth. The carnivora, on the contrary, go to the other extreme; their animal food being of the kind most easily acted upon by the gastric juice is simply torn or cut through by their sharply-pointai teeth, and then mixed with saliva, and bolted down whole. Man, feeding on both animal and vegetable food, needs to steer a middle course; he does not need like the herbivora more than one stomach; neither can he bolt down his food as the carnivora.
To insure perfect and speedy digestion a considerable amount of mastication is necessary, and if this—whether from habit or bad teeth—is not obtained, indigestion and dyspepsia, with all their horrors, are sure to set in sooner or later. Mastication reduces the food to a soft pulpy consistency, and at the same time mixes the food thoroughly with the saliva and the mucus of the mouth.
Now as to the saliva; it is a transparent, viscid, watery fluid of an alkaline reaction, and contains about one per cent of solid matter. It only flows freely when the parts of the mouth are at work, or when stimulated by other causes, as very often in smoking; even by the mental impression produced by the sight or smell of food, or by the description or thought of food, the saliva begins to flow,
624
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and this gives rise to the common expression of “ making one's month water.” The salivary glands when thus acting will secrete, as computated by good authority, two to three pounds in twenty-four hours. Saliva has to perform two offices—one mechanical, the other chemical. The first is to moisten the food and to lubricate the passage, and thus prevent friction by the food, which would result in inflammation. The chemical properties of saliva have no effect upon either the albuminous nor fatty elements, but confine their action entirely to the starchy constituents of the food; these it changes into dextrine or glucose, and thus renders them soluble by the subsequent fluids.
After insalivation, the bolus or mass of food is conveyed by the tongue to the back part of the mouth, and by a voluntary contraction of the muscles that perform the act of swallowing the food is pressed into the pharynx. But to enter the pharynx the food has to avoid two openings, i. e., the posterior orifices of the nose and the larynx or windpipe. This is provided for in the following manner.- As soon as the food passes into the pharynx the curtain of the soft palate is raised, so as to shut off the posterior naves; the larynx is drawn up, and its cover—the epiglottis—is pressed tightly down over it. After the food has reached the pharynx it is beyond the control of our will; the involuntary muscles of the oesophagus take hold of it and carry it irresistably into the stomach by a peculiar motion, resulting from the alternate contraction of the ring muscles and longitudinal muscles of the oesophagus. The food enters the stomach by the cardiac opening, which is guarded by a swincter muscle to prevent regurgitation; here it comes under the effects of two sets of influences— the gastric juice and the movements of the walls of the stomach. By the latter the food becomes more and more mixed with the gastric juice, and therefore nearer to a fluid state.
Gastric juice, as usually obtained, is a pale, yellowish, transparent fluid, of a saltish acid taste, and no smell. It has a great power of coagulating albumen, and is remarkably antiseptic, retarding for a considerable time the putri-faction of meat, to which it is applied; these properties are owing to a substance called pepsine. Lately also it has been shown that it contains the two acids of hydrochloric and lactic acids; at least these are the most commonly present, when the gastric juice is examined. Gastric juice is only secreted when there is food present in the stomach, and the quantity secreted in twenty-four hours has been calculated to be from ten to twenty pints. To Dr. Beaumont we owe all positive knowledge with regard to the digestion in the stomach. His observations were made on one Mr. St. Martin, who had received a shot-wound, laying the stomach permanently open, so that a direct observation of that organ in its functions was possible. The result of these observations may be stated in a few words. It was found that though any mechanical irritation produced a flow of gastric juice it was not yet as effectual an excitant as the presence of food. Pepper, salt, and other soluble stimulants, increased the secretion, while acids checked it. With regard to the relative time it takes for the digestion of various foods, it was observed that rice and tripe took about an hour; eggs, salmon, trout, apples and vension took an hour and a half; barley, milk, liver, and fish required two hours; turkey, lamb, potatoes, pig, two hours and a half; beef and mutton, three hours; and veal required a still longer time. As a general rule, animal foods required less time than vegetable,
The effect produced upon the food by the gastric juice is confined almost entirely to the nitrogenized elements— albumen. This is reduced into a low albumen called al-buminose, and acquires the property of being readily absorbable by the surrounding tissues, a property entirely absent in ordinary albumen. The gastric juice has no effect on the starch and fat of the food, save in more minutely dividing them. The food, then, being properly reduced in the stomach is pressed against the pyloric orifice, and escapes into the duodenum, into which, as I have already remarked, the two glands, called the liver and pancreas, pour their secretions.
The pancreatic juice is almost entirely identical with the saliva. When pure it is transparent, colorless, slightly viscid, and contains the active principle of pancreatine. Like the saliva, its action is upon the starchy particles of food, but much more powerful; but in addition to this, the pancreatic juice has the power of breaking up fatty constituents, and mixing them up with the other ingredients of the food into a kind of emulsion.
Of the liver and its secretion—bile—much has been said, but very indefinite knowledge has been obtained. Bile is a somewhat viscid fluid, of a greenish-yellow color, strongly bitter taste, and peculiar nauseous smell. When secreted and fresh, it is a neutral fluid, but soon it acquires alkaline properties. Bile is secreted continuously, but more abundantly during the passage of food into the duodenum; some authorities maintain that from three to four pounds are secreted in twenty-four hours. Its action on the food is less important than was thought formerly; its chief quality being to emulsify it with the fatglobules; moreover, because of its alkaline properties it tends to neutralize the acidity of the gastric juice; possibly it may have also some uncertain influence upon the starchy elements.
The bile has to be regarded at present more as an excretion than a secretion; for according to all appearances, it serves more the purpose of carrying off from the system some of the effete material, than in helping the process of digestion. Its absolute necessity in this capacity is made manifest by the great derangement of health that is produced even by a temporary obstruction to its secretion. This is nearly all that can be said of the liver and the bile as it is the organ, the knowledge of which is in a most imperfect and unsatisfactory state.
The food in the stomach and duodenum bears the name of chyme; but as it passes down the intestines, mixed with the bile and pancreatic juice—thenceforward taking the name of chyle—it comes in contact with the secretions of the numerous smaller glands connected with digestion and called intestinal glands or follicles of Liberkuhn. The secretion of these small glands combines all the properties of saliva, gastric juice, and pancreatic juice, as it equally well attracts the starch, fat, and albumen.
When I described in my last paper the mucous membrane of the intestines attention was called to the little projecting points with which it was covered, and it was said that each of these processes, or villi, consisted of a fold of mucous membrane, enclosing a loop of blood-vessels, and of another series of vessels called lacteals. Of the latter it is my purpose to speak directly. They are the absorbing organs, properly so-called. By osmose, a physical force or power explained in works of natural philosophy, the food passes through the thin partitions into the canal of the lacteals; these canals coming from different villus unite more and more, and pass through certain structures, called
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	625
ganglia, where the albumen is transformed into a coagulable albumen, called fibrin; thence all the lacteals empty into a common canal, called the thoracic duct, which leads . the contents up to the left subclavian vein, and there discharges its contents into the general circulation of the blood.
But besides this way of absorption there is one more direct, it is by means of the blood-vessels themselves. Already in the stomach, some of the albumen and starch is directly absorbed into the blood, but along the intestines this > absorption is carried on to a much greater extent. The elements of food thus collected by the blood-vessels do not pass directly into the general circulation of the blood, but pass first, by means of the portal vein, into the liver where *'	certain noxious particles are removed and effecting also
changes in the elements, to approximate this fluid more to the composition of the blood. After leaving the liver the blood bearing the food elements collects in the hepatic * vein, and joins the general circulation by emptying into the inferior vena-cava.
Here I leave the food to do its work, in regard to the body, according as it is distributed to it by the circulation of the blood.	Sanitas.
*	Councils.
There is scarcely a more important subject to which man can direct his attention, and none, perhaps, from which a thinking mind can derive more benefit, both in a r temporal and spiritual point of view, than that which may be termed councils.
If we wish to find the time in which councils were commenced to be held, we will have to go back to the begin-i	ning of the Church—we will have, in a word, to go back to
the days of the Apostles.
In reading the fifteenth chapter of the “Acts of the Apostles,’’ we there find mention made of the first Council of the Church of Christ, which the world has ever seen, and which was held at Jerusalem. At this council a dispute arose as to" whether the Gentile converts were obliged > to undergo circumcision, or to observe the mere ceremonial part of the law. In order to arrive at a decision it was necessary that there should be some law established and a decision pronounced that would serve as a model to * all future generations; hence we see St. Peter, after some reflections on the object for which they came together, recognized by the other members of the council as Prince of the Apostles, as visible head of the Church, and mouth-* piece of the Holy Ghost, by the fact that to Peter was given to pronounce his infallible decree regarding the question at issue. Moreover, the very words used, “It seemed t-. good to the Holy Ghost and to us,” the Church still retains and uses as a formula on such occasions.
I come now to the definition of a council. It is “ a legitimate assemblage of prelates of the Catholic Church, * called together for the purpose of deciding questions regarding Faith, morals, and discipline.” There are four different kinds of councils. An (Ecumenical Council is that in which the whole Catholic Church is represented, and for the constitution of which it is sufficient to call all the bishops in the world, though they may not all be present, but only a sufficiently large number for the rep-« resenting of the Universal Church, and over whom the Pope himself, or his representative, must preside.
A General Council is that which is conspicuous for the number of prelates and doctors present, but either wants the authority of the Pope, or otherwise not numbered among the (Ecumenical Councils. Hence every (Ecumenical Council is a General Council, but not versa.
There is another kind of council called particular, and represents but a part of the Church; while others may be considered national or provincial, according as all the bishops of a nation or province are assembled, in conformity with the canons, to deliberate on questions of a national or provincial character.
The definitions of an (Ecumenical Council, in matters of Faith and morals, are infallible when approved of by the Pope. But under the head of definitions we do not include preambles, etc., but the canons containing the anathemas, and also the doctrinal expositions.
Regarding the acts of a General Council, they become binding on the whole Church only when confirmed by the Sovereign Pontiff, and promulgated.
The following is a brief list of the councils showing the year or years in or during which they were held, together with the reigning Pontiff, the emperor or king, and the reason for the calling of the same:
There have been held nineteen (Ecumenical or General Councils, together with that held at Jerusalem under St. Peter. The first (Ecumenical or General Council was held in 325, at Nice in Bithynia, under Pope Sylvester, Constantine the Great presiding. This council was convoked to settle the doctrine of the Catholic Church regarding the consubstantiability and Divinity of Christ against the Arian heresy, which was gaining ground at that time.
The second General Council of the Church was held in Constantinople, in the year 381, under Pope Damascus, the Emporer Theodosius reigning, and was directed against the Macedonians and Apollinarists, who brought into question the Divinity of the Holy Ghost, and denied that Christ took flesh and a rational soul like ours; while the third council took place at Ephesus, in 431, Celestine being Bishop of Rome, and Theodosius the then reigning emperor. In this council Nestorius was condemned as a heretic, and the doctrine of the Blessed Virgin being the Mother of God became a dogma of faith. At this council, too, Pelagius, an Englishman, was censured. He taught that physical death was not the result of Adam’s sin; that such would be the case anyway; that Adam’s sin extended only to himself; that children are born as Adam was be. fore his fall; and that the general resurrection did not follow from Christ’s Resurrection.
In 451, the fourth General Council was held at Chalce-don, and was directed against Eutychianism. Pope Leo was the then reigning Pontiff, and Marcian, emperor. Eu-tyches taught that there was but one nature in Christ, the human, having been absorbed in the divine. He was condemned by this council as a heretie.
In Constantinople, 553, the fifth General Council was held under Pope Vigilius, Justin being emperor. This council.condemned the “ Three Chapters,” which was in favor of the doctrine of Nestorius. It also condemned the teaching of Origen, who maintained that Christ was the Son of God only by adoption and grace; that souls were created before the bodies; that the planets and starshad souls; that the punishment of the damned was not eternal; and that the fallen angels would one day be restored. It is not certain, however, whether Origen ever did teach
626
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
such doctrines, and it is the belief of some theologians that those false doctrines were simply interpolations, and that he was in no way answerable for them. But however this may be, the heresy above referred to prevailed for some time, and did great annoyance to the Church.
The sixth was also held at Constantinople, in 680, Agatho being Bishop of Rome. The condemnation of the teaching of the Monothelites, who admitted but one will in Christ, was the result of this council; while the seventh and second Nicene Council was held in 787, under Pope Adrian. This council condemned the doctrine of the Iconoclasts, or image breakers, and thus settled the dispute, as to the lawfulness of having pictures in churches.
The eight, and last of the Eastern Councils was held at Constantinople, in 870, during the pontificate of Adrian II, in which Photius, the intruder of that See, was condemned, and peace made between the Greek and Latin Churches.
I now come to the Councils of the West. The first of which was the Council of Lateran, and held at Rome in 1123, under Callistus II. In this great council the right of investiture—which had been claimed both by Pope and emperor, and had been the subject of bitter wars—and also laws regarding discipline were regulated.
The tenth Council of the Church, and second of Latern, was held in 1139, Innocent II presiding. At this council a union between the Greek and Latin churches was tried to be reached, but without any lasting results.
The eleventh and third Lateran Council was held in 1179, under Innocent III, and the abuses of the Schismatics condemned.
I now come to an important Council—the fourth Lateran, held in 1215, under Innocent III, and regarding Faith, morals, and discipline. At this council a crusade was authorized against the Albigenses, and other points of Faith and morals, discussed. At Lyons, in 1245, under Innocent IV, another General Council was held, and the Emperor Frederick excommunicated. A temporary union was effected between the Greek and Latin churches, at the council held at Lyons, 1274; while at the one held at Vienne, in Dauphine, Clement V presiding, the Knight Templars were surpressed, and Beguards and Begaines— a sect of men and women of the most depraved character— condemned.
In Florence, 1439-45, under Eugene IV, the sixteenth General Council of the Church was held. In this council, the Greeks signed their profession of Faith regarding the procession of the Holy Ghost from the Son, as also from the Father, and thus agreed with Rome. Some new heresies and schisms springing up in the Church was the occasion of a council held at Lateran in 1512, presided over by Julius H and Leo X. The eighteenth was held at Trent in 1545-63, under Paul III and Pius IV, and condemned, among other things, the doctrine of Luther, Calvin, and Zwinglius; while the Vatican and last of the General Councils was held at Rome, in 1869-70, and presided over by the late Pius IX of glorious memory. From this council emanated the promulgation and dogma of “ Infallibility.”
Such is the brief history of the workings of the Church since the time of Christ, her Founder, which space permits us to give. Councils, as we have said, are as old as the Church herself; and though they are not necessary for the Church, nevertheless, they are extremely useful. Do we not find in the history of the Church’s councils one of the most remarkable signs of God’s protecting
hand? It always was a special study for the deepest intellects of her enemies to find some point wherein these councils clashed; but the task is before them yet, and fresh at that. They have not succeeded in making the r decrees of one council contradict those of another; neither will they, as long as truth is one, and the Church the Spouse of Christ in whom there is no inconsistency. The Church in promulgating her dogmas, does not promulgate - ' a new doctrine. These must be always the same; and it is only when a point of her doctrine is attacked by her en- ~ ernies does she come forward and proclaim the truth, and cut of those from her fold who do not wish to believe it.
The Church of Christ, then, in doing this acts but reasonable and in comformity to the will of heaven. She is the Church instituted by Christ for the guidance of souls unto • salvation; consequently, all are obliged to hear her word, to obey her laws, If they wish to be saved.	K.
Bells.
'	4
Among the material objects which surround us and administer to our comfort and happiness, there are none < perhaps that enter into so close a relation to our every being as bells. On the threshold of life they greet us; -«■ and on every joyous occasion, during its progress, their merry ringing seems to give utterance to the bliss our " feeble tongues are unable to express. When our journey is ended, and we have laid down the burden of life, in slow and solemn tones bells announce the fact to the listening world—to our relatives and friends.
The first faint beams of the rising sun have just scattered the shades of night; the birds are trilling their | morning hymn; and Nature, resplendent with millions ■«» of diamond dew-drops, continues her onward course;
the busy hum of toil is about to begin when the	j
stillness is broken by a silvery sound; ’tis the Angelus	J
bell, bidding us to prayer—warning us to offer our first	"*i
thoughts, our first deeds, and the first fruits of our labors	(
to God, our Creator. It tells us, moreover, to consecrate	, {
to the service of God the morning of life, .and thus secure	1
His protection when its evening approaches.	i|
Again at midday, when the sun at its zenith pours its	■
fierce rays upon the earth, and the brain-workers, as well as	1
the tillers of the soil, begin to wish for a respite from their labors, how welcome is the peal of the Angelus calling all to	11
refreshment and relaxation! while at the same time man 4 is reminded that in the strength of his arm as well as in meekness and docility he must do the duty imposed upon him by an All-wise Providence.	'
The shades of evening are gathering now; the imple- / ments of toil are laid aside with a sigh of relief; the workman turns homeward, when again the Angelus rings out ! on the quiet air, renewing its call to prayer—exhorting all to place their trust in Him who rules the day and night and holds the universe in the palm of His hand. Beauti- < fully indeed has Moore sung of
“Those evening bells, those evening bells, How many a tale their music tells Of hope, and joy, and that sweet time When first I heard their merry chime.”	;
When the labors of the week are ended, and the Lord’s ] day—the day of rest—has dawned, throughout the land from	r |
the steeples of magnificent cathedrals and the unpretend-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	627
ing belfry of the village church the many-voiced bells resound, calling the children of God to their Father’s house. “ Let bells call the faithful together,” says Chateau-» briand, “ for the voice of man is not sufficiently pure to summon innocence, penitence, and misfortune to the foot of the altar; and if bells were forbidden us, a child should be chosen to call us to the house of God.”
In the year 1067, on returning from a visit in Normandy, * William the Conqueror, finding England in a state of insurrection, determined to crush by severity a people whom * he had been unable to win by kindness. Among other rigorous measures, he ordered the curfew to be rung at .» eight o’clock every night, as a signal for all fires to be covered, lights to be extinguished, and every one to retire to rest. Thus, as each night the curfew rang out deep and loud, it seemed to say “Another day has passed. The knell of parting day has come.” It is said “ We take no * note of time but by its loss; to give it then a tongue is wise in man.”
“ Solemnly mournfully Dealing its dole, The curfew bell
*	Is beginning to toll.
Cover the embers,
.	And put out the light,
Toil comes with the morrow
And rest with the night.
J	Dark grow the windows
And quenched is the fire, Sounds fade into silence, All footsteps retire.”
Bells have frequently been used as a signal of danger. On the coast of Tife there was a small and very dangerous islet called Bell Rock, upon which a bell was so placed that it could be swung back and forth by the waves when the tide rose even with the rock, thus informing mariners of their close proximity, and not unfrequently causing the safety of life to many.
r	“ When the tides billowy swell
Had reached its height,
Then tolled the rock’s lone bell
Sternly by night.”
What a thrill of terror the clanging of the fire-alarm ’ sends to every heart. Its continuous ringing tells of fellowbeings losing their houses, and perhaps life itself, in this devouring element. Thus the bells, which but a short time ago rang out the hour like the “ All’s well ” of the >	sentry,—denoting peace and security—now shriek the sad
tale of destruction and ruin.
Bells tell of sorrow, but they also speak with eloquent tongues of happiness. “All goes merry as a marriage bell ” is an old saying, while the thought of the
“Bells of Shandon
That sound so grand on
• The pleasant waters Of the river Lee ”
v brings joy to the heart of many an Irish exile, who, far away from the land that bore him, struggles and toils with a cold and heartless world, and perhaps a still colder fate.
There is another bell that speaks, but of peace, of faith, > of hope, of charity; ’tis heard in the noisy city; it rings in the peaceful hamlet; its deep tones resound over valley, hill, and dale, and comes down in weird notes from the height of the mountain, cheerfully greeting the weary traveller or the pleasure-seeking tourist; ’tis the monastery bell, bidding a most cordial welcome to all who seek hospitality, to come thither and pass the night in peace.
How many a despairing traveller has not the ringing of a monastery bell filled with hope, as through the ice and snow of the towering Alps he makes his way, striving with all his might to reach the hospice before being overcome by the fatal sleep from which there is no awakening?
Shall I speak of the funeral bell, which in measured • tones tells that a weary wanderer has reached his home— tells that a creature has been united to his Creator ? No.
“ Toll then no more, ye bells, No, no, ring out and shout; The was, the is, the shall be, All men are in His hands, Ring out, ye bells, ring, ring.” E. D. P.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A gold medal has been struck in honor of Verdi by the Italian minister of instruction.
—Maybrick, the writer of the song “ Nancy Lee,” has received nearly $8,000 for his royalty.
—Prof. J. O’Neill, of the New England Conservatory of Music, will pass the summer in Europe.
—Verdi has conducted his new Pater fibster (words from Dante) at Milan. The success was gratifying.
—The London Musical World says that there are 479 musical and theatrical journals published in the United States. This speaks well for us.
—Mr. Ernest Daudet, brother of Alphonse, has recently published a volume of “ Souvenirs de la Presidence du MarSchal MacMahon,” covering the period 1874-’79.
—Mme. Clara Schumann is preparing a biography of her late husband, enriched by his literary remains, in shape of letters, criticisms, essays, etc., never before published.
—At the Sydney Exhibition, British paintings alone fill five galleries, and additional rooms have been built since its opening to accommodate other pictures sent from Europe.
—At a late sale in Paris a book by a modern binder, Trautz-Bauzonnet, a master of the art of inlaying, sold for §3,200, of which at least §200 was paid in respect of the binding.
—Prof. Longfellow is adapting his “Mask of Pandora” to operatic form, and Mr. Alfred Cellier will compose music for the libretto. It will be presented for the first time on any stage in Boston, next fall, by the “ Blanche Roosevelt English Opera Company.”
—In art there is a point of perfection, as of goodness or maturity in nature; he who is able to perceive it, and who loves it, has perfect taste; he who does not feel it, or loves on this side or that, has an imperfect taste. There is, then, a good and a bad taste, and it is not without just reason that men dispute respecting tastes.—La Bruyere.
—The Cincinnati Commercial remarks concerning a local orchestra gathered to furnish Wilhelmj’s accompaniments recently as follows: “To make such a man as August Wilhelmj play a concerto supported—or—no, weighed and hung down—by such a band, is like placing a perfect Greek statue, hewn out of Parian marble, upon a pedestal of brickbats.”
—The Corporation of the city of London advertises the loss from the Guildhall Library of the original manuscript score of Mendelssohn’s “ O Rest in the Lord,” from the oratorio of “ Elijah ” which is not exceedingly popular in England. The advertisement informs the public that in the event of the manuscripts being offered for sale, they are the property of the Corporation by whom they are claimed.
—The annual report of the trustees of the Astor Library shows that in the year 1879 §16,995.52 were spent for books, binding, catalogues, shelves and equipments, and that its income was §27,597.89 ; 5869 volumes were added, making the whole number now in the library 189,114,—1,100 of the accessions being works on Oriental history and literature. The total number of visitors was 59,042—a daily average of about 214.
—Mr. William Cushing has been at work for nearly two years upon a biographical dictionary, to be called “ The Century of Authors,” which will contain a list of the full names of all persons entitled to a place in a library catalogue during the past 100 years—1780-1880. It will be exhaustive so far as this country is concerned, less complete as regards the British Empire, and will notice only the most important authors of the rest of the world.
—The composer of “Rigoletto” and “Aida” was but recently at Milan, where he received a deputation from the projectors and promoters of the statue about to be erected in his honor at the Scala, the scene of so many of4 his greatest successes. His reply was characteristic of the man. “I do not,” he said, “merit the honor of a statue, which only belongs to the dead. 1 hope al all events, however, that this
628
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
statue will not be my immediate passport to another world." Verdi is at present in Genoa.
—h. manuscript supposed to have been written by St. Peter has lately been discovered among the property of a man name Bore, who died last year at Jerusalem, at the age of 109. The style of the work has led to the conclusion that it was authentic; and it is stated that the London Bible Society, which has despatched a committee to the spot, has offered Bore’s heirs the sum of $100,000 for its possession. The heirs, however, refuse to part with the manuscript, though it seems probable that they will allow the Society to reproduce and translate it.—Catholic Sentinel.
Scientific Notes.
—Gilbert Munger, W. J. Hennessy, and George Boughton are among the Americans who contribute steadily to the Royal Academy exhibitions.
—M. Daubree has examined a volcanic dust which fell on the 4th of January, 1880, at Dominica. It was remarkable as containing a considerable quantity of iron pyrites and sulphide of lead.
—The Russian Geographical Society will receive from the Government a subsidy of 14,000 rubies yearly to found and maintain meteorological stations at the mouth of the Lena and on the island of New Siberia.
—In his new work on metallurgy Dr. Percy, F. R. S., puts the value of silver produced annually ol late years as averaging somewhere about $80,000,000, and the gold at $140,000,000. The author was lecturer on metallurgy in the Royal School of Mines.
—The Portuguese Naturalist Anchietta has recently sent from Africa 2,000 specimens of birds and 1,000 reptiles, fishes, insects, and other animals, besides numerous specimens of plants and rare minerals, intended for the Polytechnic Museum of Lisbon.
—The experiment of sending up three connected balloons is about to be tried in Lille. The balloons are now fitting in the vestibule of the Palais de I’lndustrie of the Champ de Mars, Paris; there will at the same time be a descent in a parachute by M. Tavis.
—Gen. Kaufmann has just presented to the Zoological Garden at Moscow a hairless horse from Central Asia. The animal belongs to the hybrid species and is considered a great rarity; it is well formed, but its skin is red and without the slightest trace of hair, and in cold Moscow it has to be kept covered with blankets.
—To preserve the colors of flowers, after fastening a wire to each stem, dip the flowers separately in a clear weak solution of Gummi Arabicum, suspend on a line, and when dry they will be found to be covered with a glazing, interfering very slightly with their beauty, at the same time preventing the air from destroying the color.
—An extraordinary discovery of Roman coins has lately been made by some boys at Tilton, a lew miles from Bristol, England. On removing a primrose root from a bank, they unearthed a large urn, which was found to contain thousands of coins of the Emperors Domitian and Constantine, many of them being in excellent preservation.
—MM. P. Bert and d’Arsonville describe in the Comptes Rendus of the Academic des Sciences a new microphonic apparatus receiving words at a distance. The objects of their researches have been twc-fold: first, to strengthen the sound vibrations of speech, and, secondly, to collect these vibrations at the distance of several metres from the speaker.
—The exploration of the Sahara Desert with a view to the construction of a railway across it, has now fairly begun. Col. Flatter’s expedition left Wargla on the 5 th ult., on their southward march. In addition to the leader, the party comprises nine scientific officers and twelve French soldiers, besides numerous camel drivers, chiefly belonging to the Chambaas tribe.
—It would be interesting to know how much Windsor Castle has, from first to last, cost. In 1830, on the vote for $500,000 to defray the expenses incurred by the alterations
of Windsor, a member objected on the score that $4,500,000 had already been spent, and there was no knowing c when the expense would cease. The bill was withdrawn for the time. Enormous sums have since been expended. ?
—At Lagozza, in the vicinity of Milan, there have been discovered the remains of an ancient village, constructed < upon piles, and evidently standing on the borders of a lake now dried up. Some of the piles found at this place were pointed with bronze. All the findings are to be given to ' the Museum of Milan. In the same neighborhood the remains of an excellent bronze statue, that evidently dates from the best period of Roman art, have also been found. Remains of walls, sewers, and pavements have also been ■ unearthed.
Exchanges.
—One of our most welcome and valued exchanges, The Western Watchman, has, we are glad to learn, removed its " editorial rooms to new and more elegant headquarters.
Ths Watchman is a fearless and live paper. May it ever < prosper.	.
—It happens not unfrequently that some of our South . Bend exchanges do not reach our office until two days after the date of publication. Surely it does not take that 4 time for them to come from South Beud. We do not, how- ' ever, know for certain where the delay is occasioned;
but we hope it will shortly cease. Let us, by all means, 4 have them in time.
—The June number of the Harp is decidedly instruc- *' tive and interesting. We notice in this number two thoughtful articles—one on “ Thomas d’Arcy McGee, and the other on “ Nano Nagle.” Any one of these papers is more than worth the price of the whole magazine. We congratulate the editor, Mr. Gillies, on the fast strides his monthly is making towards perfection, and wish him every success. The remaining contents of the periodical, both '' selected and original, show discrimination.
—The following is a portion of the contents of Donahoe's	A
Magazine for June: I, Most Rev. Archbishop Henni (with portrait); II, Irish Emigration (T. O. Russell); III, Why < are Catholics persecuted in Catholic Countries? IV, How our Lord was fastened to the Cross; V, St. Thomas Aquinas, the Angelic Doctor; VI, The Seventeenth of June; VH, Lough Derg and its Pilgrimages; VIII, Irish and English Freemasons; IX, High Treason: A tale of the Jesuits of ' the 17th Century; X, Awful Disclosures about Apostate Priests; XI, The Wonderful Cures at Knock; XII, Death- * Knell of the Expiring Feudalism of Landlordism.
—We are sorry to hear that McGee's Illustrated Weeldy *■ has been compelled, from lack of capital, to discontinue	j
as a weekly publication, and hereafter to appear but	I
monthly. This sad state of affairs, in regard to a jour- -nal of which every American Catholic might well feel proud, speaks badly for the interest taken in the cause of pure and wholesome literature by those who should act otherwise. If any weekly in the country deserved a lib- ’ eral support from Catholics it was undoubtedly McGee’s; and this arose from its very nature, its end, and aim. McGee's Weeldy was what was wanted to check the evil influences of illustrated papers that are a disgrace to . humanity. Yet notwithstanding all this it was not supported, and the consequence is, in our estimation, very humiliating to the Catholic portion of the population of the United States. We learn that to McGee's Illustrated Weeldy is due no less than $10,000. Now, why is this 4 not paid? Why does not each subscriber come forward and pay what he owes, and thus help Mr. McGee < out of the difficulty in which he now finds himself?
—With the May number, Ths Princetonian enters upon its Fifth Volume, and a new editorial board begin to carve their names on the journalistic tree. The Princetonian has hitherto been one of the most sprightly and entertaining ” of our exchanges, and the new board will have to work hard to keep the paper up to the high standard attained by r their predecessors. Judging from the initial number, they are well fitted for the task. “ A Close Fit,” by “ J.,” calls »• for strong buttons, if the reader wears a close fit; it is a fit companion for the racy sketches we have been accustomed ,
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	62$
to see in The Princetonian of the old board, and seems to be cut from the same cloth. May “ J.” live long to flourish the editorial shears, if all his “ Close Fits ” are as well cut as the one before us. “A Warning” gives warning that “ D.” will aid in no small measure to make the paper a lively one for the coming year; the man that demolished the paper demons evidently possesses good grit, and as these paper demons are numerous and doughty he is just pie man that is wanted to cut and slash them. But “D." is a mean man. He had better return to the rescue of the poor Freshman. The latter reminds us of the unfortunate “cit.” who while taking a stroll into the country was inveigled by a wily countryman into holding a fierce billygoat by the beard while the countryman went for a rope. The countryman didn’t return with the rope and the poor “ cit.” was left in jeopardy. We hope “ D’s,” bravery is equal to his adroitness in getting out of a difficulty. Sad will be the fate of the poor Freshie if “ D.” returns not to his aid with a halter for the demon; paper demons are wicked things, as we know to our cost.
—The Brunonian for May the 8tb announces the retirement of the present board of editors, and publishes the names of their successors. The members of the retiring board may well congratulate one another on the success of their efforts during the past year in the presenting of an excellent college paper. It has been a pleasing task with us to call attention to some of the many racy and interesting articles that graced the pages of The Brunonian during their term, and the present high standard of the paper is the best testimony of the zeal and ability of the editors. May their successors do as well! We clip the following from one of the editorials in the last number: “ When it fell to the lot of the present editors to carry forward the enterprise, they endeavored to adhere to the standard of their predecessors. But they soon perceived that if they were to expect corresponding success, they must depart in some degree from the former methods. It is not necessary to mention the complete change which, through the influence of a few leading journals, has come over almost the entire college press; how it has become recognized that a college paper, to.deserve the name, must be representative of the college, and it must accomplish this first, by waking up, and then by bestirring itself and entering every sphere of college activity. To be worthy of its high calling, it must lead in every department; while it does not forget literature, it encourages athletic sports; while diffusing a spirit of intellectual culture, it lends a hand to physical culture as well. These are not empty words but facts which impress themselves on every thoughtful student who has any relations with college journalism.”
New Publications.
Stumbling-Blocks Made Stepping-Stones on the Road to the Catholic Faith. By Rev. James J. Moriarty, A. M. Third Edition. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St. 1880.
We are pleased to see that this publication, embodying as it does some important points of Catholic Faith, is meeting with the sale it so well deserves. The book is written in a pleasing style and presents its readers a concise and clear elucidation of the “Mass,” the “Confessional,” the “Intercession of Saints,” “Devotions to the Blessed Virgin,” “Purgatory,” and “Infallibility”; hence to non-Catholics, who wish to know what the Church of Borne does teach, it is invaluable. Indeed no one can read the work before us with an unbiased mind and doubt for a moment the truth of the aforesaid doctrines. Catholics do not believe blindly, as some of our separate brethren are inclined to think; and this the amount of reasoning, and the force of argument used in the study of Dogmatic Theology, amply substantiate; yet, as the author rightly remarks in his preface,, controversial discussions are seldom productive of good, and consequently “believes in the necessity of clear, simple, earnest explanations of Catholic dogmas, with the absence of every expression that could possibly wound or offend.” The points of Catholic faith above enumerated are carefully explained by the Rev. author, and we have no hesitation in saying that it will be
productive of much good. We earnestly recommend its perusal to both Catholics and Protestants, to young and old. Lives op the Catholic Heroes and Heroines op America:
By John O’Kane Murray, B. 8., Author of “The Popular History of the Catholic Church in the United States.” “Prose and Poetry of Ireland,” “Little Lives of the Great Saints,” “ Lessons in English Literature,” and Catholic Education in the United States.” New York: James Sheehy, Publisher, 33 Barclay St. 1880.
We are glad to see that Mr. John O’Kane Murray has again succeeded in placing before the public a book of rare merit, and one in which every American Catholic may well take pride. It is readable, and highly interesting from beginning to end; and, as regards the binding, typography etc., it reflects much credit upon the publisher, Mr-Sheehy. This publication deserves no doubt an extended sale, as in it nearly every profession and state of life has an heroic representation. “ The Great Columbus and the gallant Barry were seamen, Cortes stands without a peer as the most splendid military genius the New World has yet seen, Montcalm was a fearless and faithful soldier, while Balboa, Champlain, Marquette and La Salle are the princes of American discovery and exploration. The holiness and devotion of the nun are well represented by St. Rose of Lima, Ven. Mother Mary of the Incarnation, Ven. Margaret Bourgeois and good Mother Seton. De Brebeuf, Jouges and De Smet are among the brightest of America’s illustrious missionaries. The statesman, the patriot and the ecclesiastic—all, in short, are fitly represented in this galaxy of great names.” No Catholic family can, then, afford to be without this most excellent volume, as it contains just what all should know. For what do we live, if not to know the history of our country and the lives of the great men who have gone before us ? Let then John O’Kane Murray’s book be found in every Catholic household; let it be read carefully by the youth of our land; and let the maxims and examples which it inculcates be appreciated and imitated; then shall we have reason to compliment the learned author for the good which he has done in his day. The book is illustrated with 23 full-page engravings and printed from large clear type on fine paper, 884 pages, 8vo. Price $3,50; gilt edges, $4,00.
College Gossip.
—About one hundred and fifty students of Cornell Uni-* versity have signed a paper asking Col. Robert G. Ingersoll to lecture before them.
—The Vice-Rector of the English College, Lisbon, has taken his degree of Doctor in Theology in Rome and will soon return to the college.
—Dr. Willard, of Auburn, N. V., offers $10,000 to increase the professorship fund of the seminary, provided that $30,000 additional is raised within the year.
—The Vassar College girls having been accused of using small swear-words the New Haven Register gallantly comes to the rescue, and says that the utmost profanity in which they indulge is “Buy chewing gum.”
—The Lake Forest University Review maintains its rank among college publications. Professors and .students contribute to its pages, and it is a very interesting record of life and thought at the young University.
—The Right Rev. Monsignor Patterson, President of St. Edmund’s College, near Ware, has been named by the Pope Bishop of Emaus in partibus infidelium. He is succeeded in the presidential chair by the Rev. George Akers, M. A., of Oxford.
—The library of Cornell University has received from Mr. W. P. Garrison a valuable collection of autograph letters which were received during the anti-slavery agitation and the years of the Civil War by his father, the late William Lloyd Garrison.
—The House of Committee on Education has ordered a favorable report also on Senate bills to incorporate the “National Education Association,” and to amend the act donating lands to the several states and territories which may provide colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts.
630
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, June 12, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.	'
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81-^0 Per Annum, Postpaid,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If* subscriber falls to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In *U such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—Not unfrequently do we hear persons express their entire disapproval of the custom of giving amateur dramatic entertainments in colleges, alleging that there is much waste of time. Now, without any hesitation, with all due respect to the judgment of such persons, we say that weare of the opposite opinion. Whether their argument he founded on a notion of false economy, or that they entertain an erroneous idea of what really constitutes a good education, we know not. Indeed, it would seem at first sight that to commit to memory such familiar sayings, as are found in plays, is more or less useless.
The primary objects to he attained in anything claming to be a good education should tend towards the culture of the mind and heart, and no exercise do we find, when properly used, tending more towards this two-fold end than the taking part .in dramatic entertainments.
The vast amount of labor to be undergone by persons commencing a course of studies at an advanced stage of life, whose mind has not been formed or taxed in early youth, is sufficient to show that committing to memory is a beneficial exercise. Even the ancients knew that since
“In labor now we’re doomed to eat our bread, In labor, too, to store with wit the head,”
it was necessary to apply youthful minds to a serious course of studies; hence they established the curriculum, which they called dialectics. An early habit of forming and< constructing ideas is of the greatest advantage to anybody that would be a profound thinker, and in no way can a young person be easier led to apply himself seriously to Study than engaging him in those things that are most
likely to enlist his warmest sympathies. From the influence of the drama we can almost infallibly judge of the character and morality of a people, so well does it show a people as they are.	T
To hold the mirror up to nature, there to show the loveliness of good compared with the hatefulness of depravity, of evil, should have a marked influence over the formation of the moral character of a youthful, aspiring generation who would be good and honorable.
The selections produced from time to time in Washington Hall have always been directed towards showing vir- < tue more laudable, and vice more despicable, more abominable. The reward of patriotism and fidelity, and the punishment of treachery and cowardice, has been most vividly portrayed.	'
Who would sympathize with, or rather not despise the wretch Arnold, who would for a paltry gain place the glorious destiny of a valiant nation under the lash of , a cringing despot? Who, on the other hand, that would not do homage to the honor, the patriotism, and integrity of the poor peasants whom English gold was insufficient to purchase? And, again, would any young man be seen « ■ in the company of Hartwell of Hamford ? The last play which was produced here contained no less a moral; for 4 the conduct of the Mohammedan chief towards De Gomez shows to our aspiring youth how despicable is a * ’ traitor; for even in the eyes of those whose cause he espoused, and who seemed to applaud him, but when he claimed in reward of his services a kingdom, the Mussulman showed him that in the heart of a semi-barbarian was to be found a sense of honor not to be found in an apostate Christian. “ You,” he says, “ who have been a traitor to your God, could not become a loyal subject to < the prophet Mohammed.” A well deserved rebuke! To show virtue her own feature, scorn her own image, is then the object always aimed at in Notre Dame. We might add also that the rehearsals are, for the most part, made during recreation.	.
—If there is anything that unbecomes a child of Adam it is undoubtedly the spirit of pride or vain glory—a dis-	*
position to consider ourselves above our neighbor. Yet the world is full of pride—full of vanity—full of drum-like emptiness. Now, we may ask, what is the cause of all this ? Why is it that one man considers himself better than his fellow ? We must remember that the heart of man is prone to evil; and as pride is “ the never-failing vice of fools,”,it is, after all, what we must expect from those would-be < giants of society—those self-trumpet blowers, that would fain have us look upon them as somebody, when in reality they are nobody. .
Again, every vice has its charms, and thus pride becomes to little-minded mortals a source of the greatest consolation. By it they imagine that the world will one * day be led to acknowledge their accomplishments and marked superiority over their fellows; that it will be led to discern solid and true worth in their own person, thus feeding their minds with vain hopes, with empty expectations that shall never be realized. What dire fool- -ishness on the part of dust and ashes—on the part of those who totie'fdayi: shall have :for their portion the cold and y silent tomb—to be feeding their minds with vain thoughts —with presumptions ideas! Ah, well has it been said r “ that if the best man’s faults were written over his fore-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
631

head they would make him draw his hand over his eyes.” No man can rightly consider himself better than his fellow. No man can be a lawfully constituted judge to decide points at issue between himself and his neighbor. Well did Job say, “Never suffer pride to reign in thy mind, or in thy words, for from it all perdition works its beginning.” The first sin ever committed was very likely the sin of pride; and as to the second, namely, the sin of Adam, there remains no doubt but that it was one of pride. Adam aspired to become like unto God in his knowledge: “ You shall be as God knowing good and evil.” To pride, then, the world owes what it suffers from the Fall; and, consequently, pride should be ever regarded as a sin of a deep dye, as one that ensnares many a noble and generous soul, and makes of it an object of contempt, not only to its fellow-creatures, but also to the good God Himself. Let no one be deceived by this ever-watchful enemy that would fain destroy man’s happiness here below. The proud man, it must be remembered, has no true happiness. He is eaten up by himself. He cannot bear to see or to hear of any good act done by anybody; everything must come from him. What he says and thinks are infallible, ipso facto; and the more he says c.f himself the greater he imagines himself to become—the higher he imagines himself to be lifted up, until he becomes finally lost amid aerial nothingness, in the contemplation of his own preeminent manhood.
But pride must suffer a fall. Solomon has well said, “ pride goeth before destruction.” It is sure to come to an untimely end; and, in place of reaching to lofty heights, it falls down to the mud and mire of littleness, of derision and contempt. As liberality makes fast friends, so pride makes bitter enemies. There is no man so much hated as the proud man, nor is there any one that so well deserves it.
There is, however, what may be called an honest pride, and, in place of censure, is worthy of commendation. Is it not highly commendable to be compelled by honest pride not to do a mean or evil act ? Is it not praiseworthy in a man to shrink, through upright motives, from the commission of any deed that would be detrimental to his neighbor, his own good name, or opposed to the law of God ? Most certainly it is; and consequently it is not this kind of pride that can be censure!; but it is that pride that makes a little god of the n;au in whom it is found, raises him above every body, and causes him to look with contempt, disdain and derision on his fellow-man. Such pride is blamable; such pride is unworthy of Christian charity and opposed to every law, both human and divine.
—There is nothing so becoming a poor mortal as unbounded confidence in the goodness and mercy of God— his Creator, his All. Yet this great truth is sometimes forgotten by men. They forget that the will of God in their regard is to be conformed to; and if they do not exactly deny it, they at least act in a manner that gives sufficient evidence of their inward feeling on this point.
What is man when left to himself? What can he accomplish? What good can he perform ? He is astray in the world; his feet tread on strange land; he is entirely out of his element; at sea with himself, and a prey to the waves of life. Go where he will, he is not at home; he is a stranger in his own land, a pilgrim on [his own shores,
and an exile in his own home. Without God, life would be a burden, a meaningless something, for which there is no name.
The way, then, that man should act here below is the right way, although this may not always be the most advantageous in a worldly point of view, or always the shortest as regards distance. A few days might have brought the Israelites from Egypt into Palestine, had Moses so directed, yet they wandered forty years in the desert. Many there are who would no doubt be inclined to censure this way of acting on the part of the'great Law-giver. Yet for all this the delay spoken of was indispensable to the Israelites, and by no other way could they gain possession^of the promised land. God, of course, might have dispensed with it, but God for the most part desires that the laws of nature should be observed, and seldom it is that He causes a derogation thereto- Again, the path in which we should walk, if we wish to please God, is not always smooth, nor the easiest one to human nature. The hot sands of the desert, its burning sun, rocks, rivers, and the spear of the Amalekites met the old Hebrew emigrants, and caused them many a sore heart and bleeding form; yet all was necessary. The promised land was to be a land of rest, of happiness and peace, and without these trying ordeals it could have been neither. And so it is in regard to ourselves; we are on our way to the promised land—heaven,—and it is only by toiliug and battling with a cheerless world that it will become our portion for eternity. The path to heaven, as all should remember, is not the most beautiful that can be imagined. It has hills of difficulty and valleys of humiliation. Its crags and precipices we must surmount by patience and perseverance ; its thousand-and-one difficulties must be overcome ; its riv&s crossed, and its woods penetrated, ere we reach that bright shore, whose harbor is bliss, and whose quay is God’s right hand.
If we look at those who have gone before us—if we look at those heroic martyrs, holy saints and sages, who knew well how to act their part, what shall we see them struggling to get the mastery over? Sin and the pride of life; struggling to conquer the evil one himself, who goes about “like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour.”
Once in possession of the way, it should be kept at any cost. Its beaten path should be adhered to, and never for a moment lost sight of. This should especially be the aim of those young gentlemen who in a few days will go forth from these college walls to face the battle of life. These young gentlemen have but one course to pursue, if they wish to make life a success, and that is the right one. Honor, integrity, and truthfulness must be their guiding star,—must be the object of each and" every one of their actions, otherwise their learning will profit them nothing, but on the contrary, will prove to them a source of evil. “The best when corrupted become the worst,” and we may say with equal force, the best scholar when perverted and corrupted becomes the greatest scoundrel—the greatest ruffian. Nothing is too black and ugly for him; he would sell his country for a handful of gold. He would destroy AnA.demdriffize a whole race in order to accomplish his wicked design’s.'^ .
It is, then, the' honest; arid'Upright of heart that will always be a source of profit to Humanity, a blessing to the society in which they move; and, above all, they act well their part as men, and consequently please God, who will not be slow in rewarding them.
632	THE NOTES DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The following card from Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, explains itself:
On my return home, after an absence of seven months, I find our beloved New Notre Dame further advanced towards completion, and even more beautiful than I had expected.
I now begin to realize the comprehensiveness of its magnificent design, and congratulate the administration upon the intelligence and vigor with which the work has been conducted. It is now evident that the New Notre Dame will soon rank among the first buildings of the State.
But while I thank God and our many friends, with my whole heart, for having so promptly and marvelously raised Notre Dame from her bed of ashes, I cannot help saying that my joy is, and must ^remain, incomplete, until I behold what all seems to call forth, as I do myself, viz.: the crown at first spoken of, on our glorious Queen’s noble brow, 190 feet above the ground, reflecting through the day from her silver mantle the rays of the sun, and at night spreading around a new splendor from twelve stars of electric light. The monumental statue, 16 feet in height, is now ready, but its lofty pedestal is yet untouched.
For my part, I will not conceal that I share in the public sentiment, viz.: that the New Notre Dame will inspire less admiration than regrets until the dome, originally designed as the chief feature of the edifice, rises up to receive its precious crowning. Without its dome, St. Peter’s itself-would be but an unsightly structure; the same is true of Notre Dame.
I therefore readily yield to the universal demand; for, on all sides and from all parts I hear the same: “Let us have the dome and the statue and the crown with its electric light” More than many others, perhaps, I wish to see and contemplate that new glory in the sky.
Our friends in the immediate vicinity and in the city of South Bend will naturally feel more interested in the erection of this majestic dome than strangers at a distance; but our true friends, who sincerely love Notre Dame and wish to see it a monument in the land, will prove their good will, even at a distance, as one did a few days ago, donating one thousand dollars for the immediate erection of the dome, without which, he knows from the engraving, Notre Dame is but a common building. No time should be lost: the season will be none too long to complete the plan. It will take $25,000 more at least; but it has to be done, although the expenses since the 23d of April, 1879, exceed to-day the receipts from insurance companies and donations by $37,000-
Last year money was very scarce; many of our best friends regretted exceedingly their inability to help us as they wished. Chicago, for instance, did not sum up $4,-000. I know personally half a dozen of highly esteemed well-wishers whose names will soon show that they have only waited for better times in order to prove more efficiently their generous sentiments towards Notre Dame.
E. SORIN, C.S.C.
—Catholicism is essentially not a system of secular policy, but a religion: indifferent to forms of Government, as such; in no way committed by either its history or its doctrines to the cause of Absolutism: and demanding, whether of the one-headed tyrant called Csesar or the manyheaded tyrant called the mob, nothing but liberty to fulfil its divine mission to the souls of men.
Personal.
—Peter Hoeg, *59, is practising law st Gilroy, Cal.
—Gus. Cheiber, ’79, is farming at Huntington, Ind.
—Rev. F. FrSre is expected here from France every day.
—	T. F. Gallagher, ’77, is practising law at Lvnn, Massa-chusetts._
—	Denis J. O’Connell, ’75, is doing business in New
York City.
—	Thos. Monahan, ’76, is managing an extensive farm in	t
Kentucky.
—	J. Phelan, ’78, is in business with his father at Dubuque, Iowa.
—	J. C. Kelly (Commercial), ’67, is in business at Le Mans, Iowa.
—	Martin O’Brien (Commercial), ’65, is an extensive farmer at Tiffin, Ohio.	“
—J. Caren, ’77, is engaged in the County Surveyor’s Office, Columbus, Ohio.	*
—	W. Clark, ’74, is one of the most promising young lawyers in Columbus, Ohio.
—Charles F. Morgan (Commercial), ’75, is in the manu- --facturing business at Oakland, Cal.
—	Rev. Father Roche, of St. Vincent’s, near Fort Wayne, . passed a few days with us this week.
—	John Eisenhauer, ’79, is assisting his father in the real estate business at Huntington, Ind.
—	M. H. Bannon (Commercial), *79, is at present travelling for the benefit of his health in Colorado.
—	Rev. Father Foley, late of New Brunswick, has gone to the diocese of Chicago. We wish him every success.
—	Rev. John O’Keefe, C. S. C., accompanied Rt. Rev.
Bishop Dwenger, D. D., to Michigan City, Indiana, on Sat- * urday last
----------<
Local Items.
—A week and a half more!
—Examination next Tuesday.
—Solid study is now all the go.
—Let manuscripts be laid aside on Society Day.	t
—Competitions in the different courses end this week.
—Debates are of frequent occurrence in the Rhetoric < Class.
—Competitions this week are in the Collegiate Course.
—The theological examination took place on last Wed- ° nesday.	x.
—Father Zahm is receiving some nice collections for the Museum.	,
—	The examination of the Graduates takes place next Monday.	<
—	The Minims enjoyed a strawberry festival on Tuesday afternoon.
—	The grounds around the Portiuncula are being put in neat repair.
—	The Star of the East are the champion baseballists at Notre Dame.
—	The representatives for the various Societies have already been chosen.	<
—	Quite a number of carpenters and painters is still at work in the College.
—	The Minims take frequent little excursions after supper around the lakes.
—	Bro. Robert’s garden is nearly completed. It is a specimen in its kind.
—	The Sorins and Guardian Angels enjoyed a half-day’s “rec” on Monday last	r
—A large crowd witnessed the last game for the championship on Wednesday last. -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	683
f
. —The handball alley in the Junior yard is well patron* ized, even during those warm days.
—The Infirmary is rather a lonesome place these times. Who would be sick these fine days ?
—Baseball, boating, handball, drilling, etc., form the principal recreation of the students.
—With two more numbers the thirteenth volume of the Scholastic will be brought to a close.
—Masters N. Nelson and A. Rohrback will represent the St. Stanislaus Philopatrians on Society Day.
—Last Monday, Mr. T. Zeien read before the History Class a very interesting paper on “ Ancient China.”
—The Thespians have commenced rehearsing for the play they intend to give during Commencement week.
—The finest flowers around Notre Dame are those which now grace the windows of the Junior lavatories.
—Mr. Bonney, the photographer, is kept pretty busy those times taking the pictures of the different Societies.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger witnessed the game of baseball played between the two Senior nines on last Wednesday week.
—The Sorin Association return a vote of thanks to Prof. J. F. Edwards for the ice-cream festival given them on last Monday afternoon.
—We publish this week the “Boards of Examiners.” It is expected that all whose names appear on these boards will be punctual in attendance.
—On next Monday and Tuesday, Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger will confer the Sacrament of Holy Orders on some our young ecclesiastics.
—The plan of the College grounds is being faithfully followed by the person in charge of this work. Order is order, no matter what discord is.
—A. game of baseball was played last week between two picked nines of the Minim Department, resulting in a score of 6 to 9, at the end of the 9 th inning.
—It is expected that the answering of the students at the coming Examination will be equal to, if it does not surpass, that of any examination hitherto held at Notre Dame.
—The most exciting and interesting game of base-ball this year was played on last Wednesday between the two Senior nines, resulting in a grand victory for the Star of the East.
—The best bulletin for the month of May in the Junior Department was awarded to E. Orrick, M. J. Burns and R. E. Fleming. 2d best, to J. Gibbons; 3d best, to W. Weney and J. McCarthy.	■
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger will administer the Sacrament of Confirmation at St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, on to-morrow A number of the children of this parish will be confirmed there.
—Great preparations were made by the base-ballists of the Senior Department for their last championship game which took place on Wednesday last, resulting in a complete victory for the Star of the East.
—We were a little in advance of time in announcing that the programme of the Commencement exercises would appear in this issue of the Scholastic. We shall, however, strive and give it publication in our next number.
—The Star of the West and Excelsior Baseball Clubs played an interesting game of baseball on last Wednesday. The game was called on account of darkness. Score, 7 to 7. The Star of the West has a phenomenon in their left-hand pitcher, H. Guynn.
—Our friend John, after gazing sorrowfully at his last bulletin, remarked that he didn’t see the necessity of introducing a new note (fearfully bad) into the scale. He says that 6 (very bad) would have worked up “ The Old Folks at Home ” quite enough for all practical purposes.
—The rehearsals of the play to be brought out by the Thespians during Commencement week are conducted by Prof. Lyons. It is expected that “ Hartwell at Hamford ” Will be even a greater success in June than in February.
The ability of the young gentlemen taking the parts makes us ready to expect great things. »
—The storm of last week did considerable damage to the orchards around Notre Dame, in the way of breaking off some of the limbs of the trees, and blowing down a large number of young fruit. But, notwithstanding this, our horticulturist says that we shall have a fair fruit crop, unless we are again visited by some furious storm. .
—Two games of base-ball were played last Wednesday afternoon. The Mutuals and Actives witnessed the Star of the East and Juanita game, and afterwards retired to the Junior Campus and played themselves. Score, 5 to 3, in favor of the Mutuals. The next game will decide the Junior championship, both dubs being now equal, as regards the number of games.
—On last Sunday, Solemn High Mass was celebrated in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at 10 o’clock. Very Rev. A. Granger was the celebrant, assisted by Rev. T E. Walsh as deacon, and Rev. P. Kollopp as subdeacon. After the first Gospel, an excellent dogmatical discourse, on the Devotion to the Sacred Heart of our Divine Lord, was pronounced by Rev. J. A. O’Connell.
—Our friend John being asked what kept him from class answered that he had been collecting some rents. It was true; he had been gathering rents, and some pretty large ones, too, but he was not a dollar the richer for it Several large fissures in his pataloons—the result of over exertion at the gym. exercises had disappeared, and a tailor’s bill of about fifty cents saved.
—The Lemonnier Library Association return thanks to Mrs. Admiral Dalhgren for “ The Executive Power in the United States; A Study of Constitutional Law, by Adolphe De Chambrun.” Translated from the French by the distinguished donor. “Memoir of Ulric Dahlgren,” by his Father Rear Admiral Dahlgren. Ulric Dahlgren lost his life in an endeavor to liberate the Union prisoners at Richmond.
—On last Sunday, May 6th, Messrs. Thomas McNamara and Nicholas Irman, ecclesiastics, made their' religious profession in the Congregation of the Holy Cross. The ceremony took place in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, at two o’clock in the afternoon, the officiating priest being Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C. A large number of persons were present. The newly professed have our best wishes for their future happiness.
—The 28th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Sunday evening June, 6th. A vote of thanks was given to Very Rev. Fr. Corby, Rev. Fr. Condon, and Brother Simon for favors received in connection with their excursion to St. Joe. Declamations were delivered by Masters T. Van Mourick, F. Mattes, W. Hanavin, J. Dwenger and Joe Courtney. Master A. Schmhckle sung a comic song. Master D. Taylor was chosen to represent the Association on Society Day.
—The examinations, which will begin on June 15th, will be, it is announced, quite severe. A new departure for the better has been made by the decision recently reached by the Faculty, to grant premiums to all students of the Preparatory Course who have a general average of 85 per cent, and to all Commercials who secure 90. But still the Preps, and Commercials should not think that they are going to walk over the course. Those who aspire to carry off rewards must make up their minds to exert themselves seriously.
—A remarkable coincidence: The Chicago convention of president-makers and the Notre Dame convention of bulletin-makers were both assembled on Wednesday, June 2d, and both terminated their arduous labors on Tuesday June Sth. The Notre Dame delegates met a few hours before their Chicago brethren, but the news of Garfield’s nomination had been made public before they had completed their task. A superfluity of * dark horses ’ was what delayed the labors of both. It is feared that protracted political conventions are to be among the probabilities of the future. Well, the country can, perhaps, put up with them once in four years; but when it comes to having them once a month, we feel like asking whether some one can’t suggest an improvement
—The last game of baseball for the Senior championship
634
THE KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
took place on Wednesday last, and a most exciting game it was. The Star of the East have proved themselves men in every sense of the word, and have not gone behind the bush to show it, either. From the beginning, the sympathy was on their side, not of course from the fact that they appeared the weaker, but from the fact that they had their whole soul in the contest, and were determined to win, no matter at what cost. Again, when they did win, they'did not feel so big over it as to send their report to an outside paper and not to their own. This, in a most unprincipled manner, the Juanitas have done; and, to our mind, they have not gained much by it. The contest is now over, and all praise must be given to the winning Club. The Star of the East is champion. Success to you, boys!
—Books placed in the Lemonnier Library during the past week: Bancroft’s History of the United States; Centennial Edition, 6 vols.; United States Catholic Magazine, 1843-48, 7 vols.; Schmid’s Tales, Rose-Bush, Dumb Girl, Daisy, Anselm, Cherries, Melon, Angelica, Water-Pitcher, Canary-Bird, Carrier-Pigeon, Madonna, Cakes, Little Lamb, Red-Breast, Best Inheritance, Forget-Me-Not, Clara, 6 vols., Illustrated; Life of Washington, Cecil; Life of Lafayette, Cecil; Love of Country; Legends of Brittany; Popular Tales, Guizot; Butler’s Lives of the Saints, 12 vols.; Rev. A. Bresciani’s Works, 7 vols., viz.: Jew of Verona, 2 vols.; Ubalds, and Irene, 3 vols.; Lorenzo, Edmundo, Mathilda of Canossa; Spiritual Retreat, David; Preparation for Death, Ligouri.
—The final game for the championship of the University was played on last Wednesday, resulting in a victory for the Star of the East Baseball Club. The following is the score:
JUANITA.
H. O.
STAR. OF THE EAST- H. O.
A. Karins, 2d b.... B. Claggett, c. f.. F. Devoto, 1st b... R. Campbell, p..... W. McGorrisk, 1. f..... J. Kinney, s. s.... A. Lent, c......... J. Smith, r. f.....
J. McNamara, 3d b....
A
0
1
1 0
1
1 0
0
1
3
3
3
4
1
2
4
3
MUTUALS. IK. O.
J. A. Gibbons, r. f...
A. S. Rock, c.........
P. Nelson, c. f.......
F. Kleine, 1st b......
E.	G. Sugg, 2d b......
R. O’Connor, p........
J. Scanlan, s. s......
F.	Glade, 3d b........
F. Phillips, 1. f.....
G. Sugg, 1st b.......
G. Pike, 2d b........
F. Wall, 3d b........
F. Smith, c. f.......
C. Hagan, p..........
T. Conlan, r. f...... A. Burger, ........... H. Deehan, s. s.......
W. Arnold, 1. f......
Total..............
Total............... 6	24
—The second game for the championship of the Junior Department took place on Wednesday, June 9. The following is the score.- 
ACTIVES.
K. O.
A Hellebusche, 1st b.. J. Seeger, s. s...... A. A. Caren, 3d b.... F. Schied, c......... A. Burger, 1. f...... J. McCarthy, 2d b.... J. Browne, r. f...... F. Dever, p.......... F. Grever, c. f......
y
I Total..............
Total................ 5	27
SCORE BY INNINGS.
Umpire—A. Lent. Scorers—G. Castanado and A Tate. Time of Game—1^ hours.
Semi-Annual Examination, June 15-19,1880.
Committees of Examination, under the General Supervision of Very Rev. Wm. Corby, President.
Classical Board—Rev. T. E. Walsh, Rev. N. J. Stoffel, Secretary; Rev. ’J. A O’Connell, Rev. J. Scherer, Mr. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., Prof. Lyons, Mr. J. Coleman.
Scientific Board—Rev. J. A. Zahm, Rev. A. M. Kirsch, Prof. Stace, Secretary; Prof. Ivers, Mr. F. Devoto.
Commercial Board—Rev. C. Kelly, Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., Prof. Tong, Prof. Ivers, Secretary ; Prof. Lyons, Prof. Edwards, Bro. Marcillinus, Bro. Philip Neri.
Preparatory Board—Rev. J. O’Keefe, presiding; Mr. M. J. McCue, Secretary; Mr. D. Toomey, C. S. C., Mr. J. Crumley, C. S. C., Bro. Alexander, Bro. Leander, Bro. Theodore, Bro. Hugh.
Board of Modern Languages—Rev. N. Stoffel, presiding ; Rev. A. Kirsch, Secretary; Rev. P. J. Kollop, Rev. J. Scherer, Mr. N. Irman, C. S. C., Bro. Philip Neri, Bro. Marcellinus.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list, are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
senior department.
R. M. Anderson, W. Arnold. J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger, J. P. Brice, M. T. Burns, F. Bell, F. Brown, B. J. Casey, J. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, L. Clements, Geo. Clarke, F. T. Clarke, D. Donahoe,_J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, H. J. Delaney, J. A. Dobson, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, I. J. Gittings, G. Harris, J. Hunt, W. Hesse, J. Kinney, R. E. Keenan, C. H. Karins, J. Kurz, P. B. Larkin, F. Lynch, E. Lynch, R. Lanham, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. MeEniry, J. A McIntyre, W. McAtee, J. McNamara, E. Molitor, T. A. Mattingly, L. Mathers, J. R. Marlett, G. Nester, H. Noble, R. C. O’Brien, J. O’Reilly, J. Osher, G. Pike, L. M. Proctor, W. Ryan, T. W. Simms, H. C. Simms, G. Sugg, J. Solon, P. F. Shea, J. Smith, F. C. Smith, C. L. Smith, C. B. Van Dusen, H. Wathen, A Meyer, O. Randolph, W. B. Cooney, A Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR department.
J.F. Browne, C. J. Brinkman, A. A Burmeister, M. T. Bums, M. G. Butler, J. Carter, A Caren, A Coghlin, G. Castanedo, 8. Dering, J. E. Davis, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, G. H. Foote, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A Gibbons, F. Glade, E. J. Gallagher, L. J. Gibert, A. C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A Herrmann, A J. Hellebusche, F. R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, F. A Kleine, L. S. Keen, R. Le Bourgeois, S. Livingston, F. McPhillips, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, E. A Otis, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomey, F. B. Phillips, R. M. Parrett, J. A Quinn, C.< H. Roberts, J. J. Rettig, G. J. Rhodius, J. Ruppe, C. J. Rose, A N. Rohrback, J. K. Schobey, J. A Seeger, J. W. Start. J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, C. Schneider, C.H. Thiele, M. A. Vedder, J. B. WeitzeL
minim department.
C. C. Echlin, C. E. Droste, D. G. Taylor, H. Dunn, H. A Kitz, H. C. Snee, W. M. Olds, G.-Woodson, E. A Howard, J. L Smith, A Van Mourick, G. P. Van Mourick, J. A Campau, F. Mattes, G. C. Knight, G. E. Tourtilo»te, J. 8. Courtney, W. H. Hanivan, W. Ayres, A A Molander, J. A. Kelly, E. N. O’Donnell, H. Metz, L. J. Young, A. F. Schmiickle, F. B. Farrelly, W. V. O’Malley, W. Miller, C. Metz, H. J. Ackerman, C. E. Campau, J. H. Dwenger. - ‘
Class Honors.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
T. Kavanagh, W. Hamilton, L. Clements, W. Wilson, C.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	635
■Whalen, P. Shea, J. Solon, W. Ryan, J. Osher, G. Pike, R. Keenan, M. Falvey, J. Dempsey, F. Bell, F. Brennan, B. Casey, J. Casey, G. Donnelly, M. English, J. Smith, J. K. Schobey, J. Ruppe, J. McCarthy, R. Fleming, F. Dever, A. Bodine, R. Semmes, E Sugg, C. Kietz, J. Davis, A. Burger, C. Brinkman, F. Phillips, F. C. Scheid.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. C. Echlin, C. E. Droste, J. M. Courtney, G. C. Knight, F. Mattes, G. Tourtillotte, D. G. Taylor, J. 8. Courtney, E. A. Howard, W. H. Hanavin, A. Van Monrick, W. M. Olds, H. P. Dunn, G. Woodson, H. C. Snee, H. A. Kitz, J. J. Henry, J. A. Campau; A. A. Molander, J. 8. Smith, J. W. Bannister, W. Ayres, J. A. Kelly, F. B. Farrelly, A. F. Schmiickle, J. E. Johnson, J. H. Dwenger, C. Metz, H. Metz, J. R. Bender, E C. Campau, L. J. Young, H. J. Ackerman, W. Miller, E. N. O’Donnell.
I
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
I ►
T
—Examinations in music commenced at five o’clock p. m., on the 7th inst.
—The examination in Trigonometry, conducted by Rev. Father Condon and Professor Stace, proved very satisfactory.
—Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Father Shortis and Rev. Father Saulnier examined the Graduating Class in Mental Philosophy on Monday morning.
—On Sunday the Misses Walsh, Engel, McCormick and McCoy were received to full membership in the Society of the Children of Mary. The ceremony was performed by Rev. Father Shortis.
—At the regular Academic reunion the Rev. Chaplain took occasion to thank the young ladies for their valuable gift of the works of St. Thomas. “ The gift exhibited,” to use his words, “ the good taste of the donors, as well as their generosity.”
—The subject of instruction after the Mass celebrated by Very Rev. Father General for the Children of Mary, on Monday morning in the Chapel of Loretto, was the privilege enjoyed by them in possessing this facsimile of the Holy House of Nazareth.
—On the Feast of the Sacred Heart, Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, D. D., administered Confirmation to fifteen of the pupils. He also preached an excellent sermon on its nature and effects, and gave Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. On Saturday morning he offered the Community Mass, at which all the pupils of the Academy assisted. The Rt. Rev. Bishop also paid a very welcome visit to St. Edward’s Infirmary.
Boll of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 1st Class—Misses Buck, Gordon. 2d Div.—Misses Sullivan, Usselman, Neu. 2d Class—Misses Kirchner, Rosing, Farrell, Campbell, Killelea. 2d Drv.—Misses McMahon, Hackley. 3d Class —Misses M. E. McGrath, Semmes, Salomon, Gall, Reinhard, Bruser, Wells, Dallas, Cortright, Maloney. 2d Div.—Misses C. Hackett, Woodin, Julius, H. Hackett, Donnelly, Bischoff, English, Ewing Horner. 4th Class—Misses Crummey, Price, Palmer, Cavenor, C. Campbell. 2d Div.—Misses Otto, Garrity, French, Fox, Wurzburg, Van Namee, Leydon. 5th Class —Misses O’Connor, C. Wathen, Regensburg, Loeber, Keys, Brown, Danaher, Casey, A Dillon, Gavan. 2d Div.—Misses Dessaint, Simms, Paddock, Orr, Harrison, Gibbons, Hutchinson, 8. Wathen, Legnard, Cronin, Lancaster, Wells, Hammond, Feehan, Reutlinger, Wall, Lloyd, Populorum, K. Lancaster, Moxon, Thompson, E. Populorum, Fitzgerald. 6th Class— Misses Fishburne, Barlow, Rasche, Fleming, Duncan, Greene-baum, McFadden, Murphy,JDe Lapp, Ryan, Baroux, Knighton, Chirhart, E. Ryan, Carter. 2d Drv.—Misses Wright, Wilkins, Ginz, Moll, Clarke, Watson, G. Taylor, Ward, Edelen, Taylor,
Zimmerman, Lemontey, Cox. 7th Class—Misses Engel, Smith, Halloran, McCormick, Reynolds, McCoy, B. Hackett, McCloskey, Callinan. 8th Class—Misses Heeney, Cleghorn, A. Smith. B. Garrity, Butts, Fisk. 9th Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, M. Baroux. 10th Class—Misses P. Ewing, T. Ewing. Harp—1st Class—Miss Galen. L Semmes, Dillon, Bruser. Organ—5th Class—Misses C. and 8. Wathen.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorne, Kirchner, Gordon. 2d Class —Misses Usselman, Hackett. 3d Class—Misses Farrell, Bruser, Rosing, O’Connor, Reinhard, Sullivan, Buck, Saloman, Julius, A. Ewing. 4th Class—Misses Otto, Semmes, Hackett, Wells, Hackley, French. 5th Class—Misses McMahon, Moxon, English, Reutlinger, Simms, Edelen, Thompson, Halloran, S. Wathen, McCoy, Paddock, Brown, Greenebaum, Regensburg.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
2d Class—Misses Loeber, Wall, Horner. 3d Class—Misses Crummey, Feehan, Hammond, Baroux, Garrity, Barlow.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Butts, Thompson, Casey, Fox, J. Wells, Lancaster, C. Lancaster.
China Painting.
Misses L Semmes, Dessaint, A. Ewing, Zahm. oil-painting.
1st Class—Misses Neteler, Hambleton, Buck. 2d Glass— Misses L Semmes, Cortright, Dessaint, Killelea, C. Campbell, Gavan, Dillon, Zahm. 3d Class—Misses English, Sullivan, Winston, Otto, French.
GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Misses C. Hackett, Fitzgerald, A. Ryan, Halioran, M. Simms, Rasche, Donnelly, Tallman, Murphy, Edelen, Quinn, Bruser, Walsh.
Junior Department—Misses Carter, Duncan, E. Populorum, Knighton, Gibbons, Legnard, Paquette, Jaeger, Harrison, Claffey, Clarke, Reutlinger, Lemontey, McCloskey, A. Dillon, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Haney, Hutchinson, E. Ryan, C. Ryan.
Ornamental Needlework.—Misses S. Wathen, Danaher, Otto, Gavan, Mitchell, Smith, Donnelly, C. Wathen, Murphy, Orr, Populorum, Reynolds, McCormick, McCoy, Crummey, Davis, Simms, Regensburg, Wall, Legnard, Duncan, Ginz, Casey, Halloran, Reinhard, Salomon, Horner, Palmer, Wurzburg, Paddock, Hutcheson, Gibbons, Greenebaun, Hammond, E. Populorum, Ward, Chirhart, McCloskey, Krieg, Cox, Wilkins, Keys, Moll.
Plain Sewing and Dress-Making—Misses Gordon, Wall, Sullivan, Lancaster, Reinhard, Saloman, Regensburg, Kreig, English.
General Mending—1st Class—Misses Gordon, Killelea, Hackett, Silverthorne, Cavenor, Ward, Ryan, Rosing. Kirchner, Loeber, Danaher, Dillon, Neu, Bischoff, Wall, A. Smith, Taylor, Zahm, English, Winston, McMahon, Lloyd. 2d Class—Misses Hackley, Mitchell, Otto, Donnelly, Gall, Wells, Bruser. 3d Class—Misses C. Lancaster, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, O’Connor, Keena, Thompson, Cox, McFadden, Hammond, Reynolds, Moxon, A. Dillon, Julius, Baroux, De Lapp.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, Ewing, Neteler, Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, Gordon, L Semmes, Lloyd, Dillon, Neu, Usselman, Otto, Winston, 8. Smith, Walsh, Loeber, Fitzgerald, Donnelly, De Lapp, English, Julius, Dallas, Wells, Bischoff, Bruser, McMahon, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Palmer, Taylor, Zahm, Campbell, Keys, O’Connor, Murphy, Hackley, Lancaster, Simms, Dessaint, Baroux, Gavan, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Horner, Saloman, McFadden, Thompson, Rasche, Reinhard, Halloran, Engel, Wurzburg, Keena, Wall, A. Smith, Callinan, Edelen, Moxon, Reynolds, McCormick, Paddock, McCoy, par excellence. Misses McGrath, Keenan Woodson, Hambleton, Ma-loney, Buck, A. Ewing Kirchner, Cronin, Gall, Price, Orr, Hammond, Wright, Cleghorn, Leydon, Cox, Brown.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, Feehan, A. Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, Butts, French, L. Populorum, Van Namee, S. Semmes, Casey, Crummey, Fishburne, Watson, Joseph, G. Taylor, McCloskey, C. Ryan, C. Lancaster, Reutlinger, Chirhart, Legnard, E. Populorum, Ginz, Paquette, Clarke, Hutcheson, Harrison, Considine, Jaeger, Knighton, B. Garrity, M. F. Fitzgerald, M. Baroux, par excellence. Misses Lemontey, J. Wells, Ryan, Carter, Gibbons, Fleming, Fisk, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Hackett, Wilkins, Campau.
636
THE HOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Lemonmer Library, Established at Notre Dame in IWlifor the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. IL EDWA-RIMS.
Notre Daks, Indiana.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST!
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, Da Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Bock Island, Davenport. West Liberty, Iowa City.Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport. Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the 'only Bailroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars are also run between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Bockisland Short Line.”
The “Great Bock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You-get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the Immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Steeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
PULLMAN PALACE CABS are ran through to PEORIA. DEB MOINES. COUNCIL. BLUFFS. KANSAS CITY, ATCMIBOS, and LEAVENWORTH.
Tickets via this Line, known as the “ Great Rock Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address, A. KIMBALL,	K. ST. JOHN,
Gen’lSuperintendent.	Gen’lTkt. andPass’gr Apt.,
.	Chicago, Hl
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks,
CTE WELK/Y".
All Kinds of Engraving* Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.’
Pining Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where yon can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL B. B. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GBEAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with theL.S. AM. S., andP., Ft. W. &C. R-Rds.
At Washington Heights, with P., C. & St.
At LA SALLE, with HI. Cent. R.R. ’
AtPEORlA.with P. P. * J.; P. D. AE.; LB.4 W.; Ill. Mid.; andT. P. & W. Rds.
At Rock Island, with “Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d & Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C.M. ASt. P. R. R,
At West Liberty, with theB., C.R.& N.R.B.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. R.
At Des Moines, with D. M. * F. D. B. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. B.
At Omaha, with B. A Mo. R. B. B. in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with B.,C. R. A N. B.R.
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR.R.; W., St. L. A Pac., and C. B. A Q. B. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Tol., Peo. A War.: Wab., St. Louis A Pac., and St. L., Keo. A N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch., Topeka A Santa Fe; Atch. A Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pac., and Ran. Cent. R. Rds.
At Kansas City, with all lines for the West and Southwest.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	637
BUY THE
Class Day Book
OF ’80.
Published by the Class of '80.
Besides containing the Guide and Hand Book to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Academy, it embraces “CLASS SONG” POETRY, LITERARY
SELECTIONS, ETC.,
Together With
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS, VEHSITY EXCHANGE NEWS, LAUGHABLE ANECDOTES & HUMOBOUS EXTRACTS.
For Sale at Students’ Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SINGLE COPY, ...	50 CENTS.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota,' Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is- the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway, Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the Jtnest Beclining Chair Mace Can in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and, South, and, to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Minin^ districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and Information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
Jambs Charlton,	J. C. McMurxur,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager, 210 Dearborn at,, near cor. of Adams, Chicago,
UNIVERSITT OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
5
{MAIN BUILDINGS
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by th.e Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farm-ing region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the
United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend. -	4
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Uotvebsity affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notbe Dame gives a more complete business training than can be ob-	?
talned in any purely Commercial College.	’	!
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE	r j
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catamugbs, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBV, C. s. C., Notre Dame P. O. Indiana.
.9