The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE JnTET\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
Volume VI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 1, 1873.
Number 25.
Compulsory Education.
Amid the exciting events of the last decade, the subject of education, which is always of paramount importance, was overlooked. Now it appears to be the all-absorbing topic, and with an impulsiveness characteristic of the American people, the reaction bids fair to run to a hurtful extreme.
The first complaint was the inefficiency of our public school system. Parents, whose time was wholly engrossed in the acquisition of wealth, left the training of the children to the State, and when they thought them prepared to take positions of usefulness in life, or as ornaments to society, were surprised to find them sadly deficient in both mental and moral culture. Instead of polished, erudite, earnest-thinking men, and accomplished, gentle, lovable women, the adolescent generation were found to be “ fast” young people, with a certain slangy smartness and free-and-easy style of manners, but with a notable absence of those important qualities of head and heart which alone could make the men honorable and useful citizens and the women tutelary saints of happy homes, and in both sexes there was a growing irreverence for all that our fathers and mothers were wont to hold sacred, positively shocking to the thinking mind of the old school.
Badly managed as the public schools may be, they answered in a great measure the end for which they were instituted, viz.: to place within the reach of all classes the facilities for obtaining the rudiments of a common education. They were never intended to do more. The unwise parent whois deluded with the idea that the public schools, common or high, can confer all the education his children need, discovers his error only when it is too late.
Those placed in positions of power, instead of admitting the fact that the public school system as it now stands has not answered the end proposed, have attributed the failure to the depravity of the people in not availing themselves of the proffered blessing, and the remedy they propose is Compulsion.
Compulsory education is entirely at variance with the spirit of free institutions, and is repugnant to all republican feeling. Yet it is rapidly becoming familiar to the popular mind. It has been gravely discussed, and found respectable advocacy in the meetings of our teachers’ institutes, and many respectable and influential journals are at present giving it immense support.
That compulsory education is impracticable in this country, and incompatible in any country with free government, seems susceptible of easy demonstration. The greatest argument adduced in its favor by its advocates is the example of Prussia. But this should be the strongest
argument against it Only under the most despotic of European governments could the system be enforced, and the fruit it has home is as opposite to republicanism as anything that could well be imagined—no less than the consolidation of a number of petty monarchies into a powerful, imperial despotism, with the assertion of the “ divine right of kings” and the denial of the capacity of the people for self-government as its cardinal principles.
The mere acquisition of knowledge is not education— still less the smattering of knowledge acquired by the transient attendance, voluntary or compulsory, upon the best of public schools. A reference to the dictionary would evidently be of service to some of the flippant advocates of the compulsory system. Webster says: “ To give children agood education in manners arts, and sciences, is important; to give them a religious education is—indispensable; and immense responsibility rests on parents and guardians who neglect these duties.”
In the light of this definition—and it would be difficult to conceive a more concise and comprehensive one—it is apparent that a national and compulsory system is utterly impossible, without a radical change in our whole theory of government. It is the highest duty of the parent to correct the temper and form the manners and habits of his children. The government which by a compulsory system of education absolves him from this duty, and deprives him of this right, is the worst kind of despotism that ever degraded humanity.
When Catholics, Protestants, Jews, and Pagans can agree upon a universal religion, it will perhaps - be practicable for a government of which religious freedom is a fundamental principle to undertake a national compulsory system of education. The greatest obstacle to compulsory education, as society is now constructed, will continue to be, until the millenium, the poor classes. How can the government make the education of the poor compulsory without providing for their subsistence ?
If the head of a family, either through misfortune, disease, or the indulgence of vicious habits, is reduced to such poverty that the children must labor, from the very earliest age at which they are capable of labor, for their daily bread, how are such children to be embraced in the national scheme of education, except by setting aside the guardianship of the parent, and adopting them as the wards of the nation ? It is therefore plain that the compulsory system could be but partial in its operations. The very class it is desired to benefit is beyond its reach, while the classes that could be brought within its operations would only be injuriously affected by its interference with their natural and inalienable rights and most sacred duties.	Lionello.
194
THE SCHOLASTIC
Ezhibition.
Friday Evening, Feb. 21,1873.
At Notre Dame, Washington’s birthday isalways looked forward to as a day of rejoicing. We do not tire of hearing recounted time and again the deeds, sayings, and memorable incidents connected with the life of our great and glorious Washington. Imbued with this spirit, the inmates of Notre Dame always look forward to this day as the one on which is to be given the principal Exhibition of the year, and the people from the neighboring city of South Bend, and the surrounding country, flock to Washington Hall and fill it;to overflowing.
The crowd began to pour into the Hall before six o’clock in the evening; and before it was time for the entertainment . to begin, the Hall was filled beyond the sitting room. The Band opened the Entertainment and poured forth harmonious notes which won the admiration of every one, and prepared them to behold with a friendly eye what was to follow: music, when well executed, will soften even the hardest heart. After the Entertainment was over we heard many complimentary remarks made regarding the Band and its excellent leader, Mr. John H. Gillespie, and in our opinion they were well merited. The applause which greeted the Band having died away, the orator of the evening, Mr. E. McSweeney, stepped forward and addressed the assembly, in well turned sentences recounting the personal character and glorious deeds of Washington. Seldom have we heard or read a better characteristic account of the great ‘ champion of our liberty. Though he did well in his manner of treating the subject, still it \\ as in a manner rather trite, ■ and was no new departure from the old and “oft-times” trodden path; nor did he assume a manner of speaking sufficiently animated for the occasion. It is not our intention ' to make adverse criticism, but rather to chronicle without using too much soft-soap, and to speak of every one just as he appeared to us. If we should seem at times severe, we hope to be always sincere, for we believe that it is by having one’s faults in elocution pointed out that one is best able to improve.
The Orchestra did itself credit on this occasion, performing some classic music in excellent style. Mr. W. Breen, Editor-in-chief of the “Philomathean Standard,” then read an essay on Patriotism—a subject well suited for the occasion, but we thought it a rather hasty composition and not as good as the one he had read but a few weeks previous at the Literary Exhibition. Mr. W. Dexter brought the house down with his declamation, which completed the the first of the programme, and the curtain dropped. The drop-curtain has been painted again, the main feature being the portrait of Washington, by Prof, von Weller.
As the curtain rises, the interior of the hovel of old “ Gilbert Rawbold ” is discovered: the play has begun. But now that the play is over.it maybe more acceptable to the •readers of The Scholastic that we speak of the different individuals as their names occur on the programme.
Well, with regard to the programme of “The Iron Chest.” The first name that greets our eyes as we glance over the cast of characters for this play is that of “ Sir Edward Mortimer,” by Chas. J. Dodge. This character was admirably taken by Mr. Dodge, aud but few are the points that could be criticized in a manner otherwise than very creditable to himself He played his role with a clear conception of his part; his firing the pistol at Wilfred, his feinting, his revival, and acknowledgment, to say nothing of his death, caused an almost breathless silence on the part of the audience. Many merited compliments were paid this gentleman publicly in the refectory, before all, and at the Thespian banquet,—all of which we feel were deserved, except perhaps the comparison instituted with a professional. It would seem to us that this comparing amateurs to professionals is “ too thin ”—and as another cant phrase has it, is “ soft-soaping we do not make this remark as referring particularly to the present instance, but as applying to all such in general. We think that the character of “Sir Edward Mortimer” was never better rendered at Notre Dame.*
* Our reporter never heard a former student,’ 'Mr. 0. T. Chamberlain, in this part.—Ed.
“ Wilfred,” by MarkM. Foote, excited great sympathy on the part of the audience; his countenance told even more than his words his fidelity as secretary to Sir Edward; his fright when the pistol was fired at him did not seem to be a mere feint but a reality, and finally his magnanimity in forgiving his murderer at heart, and his constancy to Sir Edward in his death-struggle, were truly affecting. Mr. Foote seemed well suited to his part, and played it well; —but he always plays his part wrell. Yet if a critical word were demanded of us, we feel that we would be bound to say that to our notion he was too much frightened at times and was the least bit inclined to overdoing.
“ Fitzharding,” the brother of Sir Edward Mortimer, was well taken by Mr Chas. Berdel, though we must say that we think the parts of “ Gilbert Rawbold and Orson” better suited to him, (not that they were not well played however.) Mr. Berdel sustained the well-earned reputation which he has so long enjoyed at Notre Dame, but he has played Scapin and the Mimamoostia too often, and whenever we see him upon the stage we think he is personating one of these famous personages. He seems, to us at least (it may be from association on our part),that he is saturated (allow the expression, ye chemists?) with these characters, and that he brings them into every_play in which he appears; in our opinion he was not sufficiently dignified; yet, while we speak thus we are far from censuring—for his agony upon discovering the secret crime of his brother, and consequently the disgrace of his family, greatly moved him; in this Mr. Berdel is almost a star. His position in the closing scene, the tableau, was grand, and the red light reflected him magnificently.
“ Adam Winterton ” was well rendered by Mr. W. W. Dodge. His sameness of voice depicted very well the old man; it was, however, open to some improvement, and to us he did not seem to enter sufficiently into his part, wanting more nervousness than he manifested; still each of these points needed but a little improving to render them perfect. This, it must be observed, is a character of far more importance than at first might be supposed, for it was owing tothe bad playing of this character that the failure of ’the play upon a former representation is attributed. From this is seen the importance of the character, and in justice to the young gentleman who took it we must say that we doubt if there be any at Notre Dame at present who could take it better. Much praise is due to him for contributing so much towards the success of the play.
“ Gilbert Rawbold, and Orson.”—These, also, were characters of far more importance to the development of the plot than might at first appear, yet Mr. E. McLaughlin handled them in a masterly manner. At one time he was the stanch, hardy old man, driven almost to desperation by the wants of his family,—at another, the cruel, crafty, heartless On on,—of both of which characters he had a good conception. The Thespians may well feel proud of Mr. McLaughlin as a member; the only criticism that we would here offer is more attention to the modulation of his voice.
•“ Armstrong” was taken by Mr. D. E. Maloney in a manner quite creditable; but it would seem he was not well suited to his character and did not enter into his part so well as might have been expected. . Mr. Maloney was reserved to distinguish himself in the after-piece, as will be seen further on. Mr. O. Waterman (a St. Cecilian), as the Robber’s Boy, did excellently. Mr. P. J. O’Connell, as “Amos,” the robbers’ cook, was natural, as were all the others.
The after-piece was “ The Review,” in which Mr. D. E. Maloney as “Mr. Deputy Bull” astonished us by the excellence of his playing. He entered with gn at spirit into his part; he seemed greatly agitated wh°n figs were mentioned, and consents to the marriage of his ward to the Captain when Hopkins’ choice is presented to him. We have no critical remarks to make, albeit “ Looney” and “John Lump” did call him “mad bull! mad bull!” He played well his part.
“ Captain Beaugard ” was well handled by Mr. Charles Berdel. Mr. Berd> 1 was evidently at home in his part, and entered into it in earnest. “ Anything to beat Old Bull.”
“ Caleb Quotem,” by R. W. Staley, was admirably well presented. Mr. Staley plavs the “jack of all’trades” almost as naturally as life.' The more praise is due this gentleman from the fact that but little time, comparatively, was
<
THE SCHOLASTIC.
195
given him. Robert has a splendid voice and a good conception.
“Looney MacWolter ” and “John Lump” were—what all such characters are in the hands of Messrs P. J. O’Connell and H. W. Wa’ker—the life of the evening. The former, a.jiuUeman just from the “ould country,” kept the house in a roar ot laughter; his favorite songs excited rounds of applause. He was very indignant that Mr. Deputy Bull should “rob the mail.” . . . “Harry,” says some one. “ looked as simple as he could without really biing so;” indeed as to personation of character he was tiie star of the evening. Mr. Walker creati d much mirth, and every one admired his playing.
“ Dobbs” was him e f, as every character is when represented by “ little Markand Mr. 0. Waterman play eel his part as “Page” very well.
With these remaiks we conclude our report, hoping that in our endeavors we have been just, and have offended no one; and if we have in some instances seemed to criticise, we hope it will not be taken in any other sense than what was intended—viz., to note out points for improvement. The Thespians not only preserved their laurels, but we think reaped fresh ones, for never have we seen a play put upon our stage which went off so smootlily as the ones of which we speak. Thus did each render well his part and contribute to the entertainment of all present; and we feel that they met and even went beyond the expectations of their friends present.	•
We hope that the representation which the Society will present on the 17th inst. will be as successful, and with this we end our simple but sincere remarks.
The Librarythe late Rev. Father^Barker.
The librarian of the College of Notre Dame received the following note from the Mother Superior of the Sisters of Mercy at St. Mary’s Convent, Rochester, N. Y., dated February 18,1873 .-
“ Dear Rev. Father :—The drawing took place yesterday, and I am happy to inform you that Very Rev. Father Sorin is the winner of the Library. I enclose you the ticket drawn, and await orders as to how it is to be sent.
.	“ Sister M. Camillus.”
To the above we would add a few words by way of explanation. The Library in question was left by the late Rev. Peter Barker, D. D., of Rochester, as a legacy to the Sisters of Mercy. Not standing, in need of a theological libi ary themselves, those good ladies put it up at lottery. Accordingly they sent four tickets to Very Rev. Father Sorin, who at once transmitted the price of the tickets.
We regard it as quite a providential circumstance that those books should thus fall to our lot From what we understand, the collection is quite valuable and extensive, and will no doubt be of great assistance to the priests of the institution, both in preparing for the monthly theological conferences established here, and in their private studies.
We may be permitted here to say that the example of Rev. Father Barker is worthy of imitation as well as of praise. It is seldom that we hear of libraries being b'e; queathed thus where they will turn to the best advantage. On the contrary, from one cause or'another, collections of books, which it had taken perhaps a lifetime' to gather, often fall into the bands of persons who know not their value, and the books are consequently' scattered to the four quarters of the earth, doing comparatively but little benefit to any one. How can a man better show his appreciation of learning and encourage it more effectually than by leaving his books to some of our educational establishments ? Indeed, donations of this kind, whether by legacy
or otherwise, speak well both for the giver and recipient. Many of our purely secular institutions of learning are more fortunate than we are in having extensive libraries, donated and amassed through the kindness of their friends and p irons. Let the liberal-mind d friends of our Catholic institutions of learning take the hint.
Drops of Water.
Whence come these tiny drops, so full of life and animation, which in such mysterious ways come tapping at our window-panes? The gentle zephyrs say.- “They are messengers of love from the fountain above, who have come to make their home with us.”
-These tiny drops, so very small, would make one think that they are of no consequence at all, and yet what hidden charms and powers does not each little gem contain—for the wilted plants, whose fragile forms nearly touched the ground, are by them soon transformed into glowing flowers I
Behold the beautiful scene as drop after drop issues from the rock to supply the spring, which soon is filled to the brim, and the surplus hastens onward to meet the stream below. See the torrents of water rushing onward and carelessly tumbling over the rugged cliffs, then smoothly ' meandering on through groves and plains to add a charm to the surrounding scenery. Is there anything more grand ' in nature than the Niagara Falls—whose waters form a scene which delights the painter’s eye ?
Ami what is the mighty ocean, on whose broad bosom the stately vessels float, and in whose depths the merry fishes sport—whose wide expansive reservoir receives the streams of tribute which flow through our land? What of it? Is it not composed of little drops of water? Then, too, we must not forget the welcome dew-drops which in summer visit our beautiful land to allay the scorching heat of a summer’s sun, but which winter’s chilling blast transforms into glittering frost to bedeck our shrubs and trees with a beautiful silver network. And the magnificent glaciers of the mountain,—the tremendous icebergs afloat on the ocean, carrying destruction in their path,—these phenomena are nothing more than little drops of water.
Again, when viewing the glittering snow, whose purity . reminds us of spotless innocence—or the beautiful rainbow set in the for-distant sky, with its varied tints, emblematic of hope,—do we not admire them ? Yet these, too, are n thing more than little drops of water.
1 In contemplating the little water-drops, whiph shall we -most admire—the grandeur or the simplicity of God’s works? For the most magnificent of His works are composed of the minutest particles, and we may see His magnificence and benevolence mirrored even in the Little Drops of Water.
:w  M. L.
A young lady in Greenville, Tennessee, recently presented her lover with an elaborately constructed penwiper, and was astonished the following Sunday, to see him wearing it as a cravat.
Hydragyrum.—It appears that some days ago when Mr. Mercury departed from the lowlands below zero he forgot something, and had to return for it a few days since. We hope he will be more mindful in future.	-
156
SCHOLASTIC.
The $eholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TEMS:
One year......................................$2 00
One session (5 months)........................ 1 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Several articles, though in type, have been crowded ont this week.
On Wednesday, the beginning of Lent, the Very Rev. Father Provincial gave us one of his usual lucid practical discourses upon the custom of fasting, as held by the Church, and upon the impressive rite of the day, that of signing the foreheads of the faithful with ashes, and recalling to their minds the solemn truth contained in the words.- “ Remember man that thou art dust and into dust thou shalt return.” We always like to listen to Father Granger. Unpretentious, not caring for the adventitious helps of the elocutionary art, he preaches sound solid doctrine in a plain and simple style, giving power to his words by the example of his many years of usefulness at Notre Dame.
Thanks to our able contributors and wide awake reporters, The Scholastic has so far weathered the rough, rude, and rugged weeks of frost. Our ink was frozen, our fingers benumbed, and we ourselves were generally congealed. So torpid had we become that even the sight of our old sanctum with its easy chair, railroad stove and glorious confusion, failed to arouse us. Like a bear, we hibernated in peaceful repose, and thus it is clear that though the Editor was a bear, the paper for some time past was not of his brewing. We are in excellent humor over this, and we shall continue to hold our position with dignity as long as the students continue to take pride in contributing to the success of their Scholastic.
During our Rip Van Winklean repose, a number of contributors grew up, and if they continue to send in their contributions, we’ll seek repose again, and give them the whole of the space to which the Scholastic has been reduced. ’ And, moreover, if the contributors become so numerous that even despite of crowding ourself out of the paper we cannot find room for all, we will waken up and enlarge the space, in fact we’ll spread ourself.
Wherefore be not afraid, but keep on, you who have begun, and begin, you who have held back.
In the several criticisms, wise and otherwise, made upon The Scholastic by our exchanges, we noticed one evidently written by a friend who knows something of Notre Dame, in which the writer, after suggesting that it would be better to have a Monthly than a Weekly, says that “ there is enough of talent in Notre Dame to produce an excellent paper,”—-or words to that effect,—we have not the paper before us to quote verbatim.
It is a good idea to have a Monthly; the project was mooted-sometime ago, and we hope that erelong—now that our stereotyping-office is in good running order—the
Monthly will be published. But in the mean time the students should make The Scholastic an excellent paper. We have published some articles from students which, though they showed ability, were not excellent, and the reason they were not was because the students did not elaborate them. They were content with the first rough essay.
This will never do.
When such brilliant writers as Macaulay and others, whose style is so natural that it seems that they wrote cur-rente calamo without any correcting, wrote and re-wrote their articles, striking out some phrases and sentences with unsparing pen, adding judiciously toothers, modifying this expression, and choosing a better word to express that idea, undoubtedly beginners should study over their compositions—prune, compress, and polish—before giving them into the hands of the printer.
If this care be given to their compositions by those who have done themselves the honor, and us the pleasure, of contributing to the columns of The Scholastic, it will continue to be, if not an excellent paper, at least a good readable college paper.
Fly-Catches. —-
TinWhistles for sale almost anywhere.
Chit-Chat.—The Star of the East, Juanita, Excelsior B. B. C., an0 the Collegiate nine, are all prepared or preparing to take the field.
“ The Train ” which has been blockaded so long at Lyons as to become famous is now in hopes of being able to depart within a few days.
The ball was tossed one warm day last week, but the weather soon reversed the programme and sent us back to the halls. This is noteworthy as being the first appearance of base-ball this year in this quarter.
Agricultural.—The trees in the orchard have been undergoing a pruning, which will no doubt prove very beneficial, and may improve the fruit not a little; however, we don’t know much about farming.
The boat house is building; two holes have been cut through the ice and poles inserted. The outline of a forthcoming structure is there, the extent of which we are not prepared to expatiate upon at present, but may sometime in the future.
The Star of the East is again one of the brilliant constellations of base-balldom, and we rejoice at its approach, for it always brings a warm season with it when it comes; hence we look upon it as a favorable omen. May it attain its maximum brightness again.
St. Patrick’s Day is fast approaching, and these are busy times for the Thespians, who are already at work preparing. A couple of fine plays will be presented, and it is the wish of the Association that their friends will not fail to honor them with their presence on the occasion.
Scientific —It has been hinted around that a Scientific Exhibition is to be given in a few weeks by the Classes of Physics and Chemistry. We expect the United Scientific Association will soon be organized. Great enthusiasm is shown by the students of the natural and physical sciences.
Amusements.—Dancing continues to be indulged in quite extensively, and of course hand-ball is not entirely given up; but “billiards, on the parlor scale,” seem to attract the
THE SCHOLASTIC.
197
greatest number of admirers. Skating, when with us, has many friends, and the outdoor games are indulged in as far as the weather will permit.
A Suggestion.—We would suggest that at our Exhibitions in future more reseived seats be kept for the friends and patrons of the institution, and that more care be taken that persons who do not belong there do not crowd themselves into the reserved s.ats. We never saw occasion for such a remark as this except at the last Exhibition, and perhaps the immense crowd which came may have been the cause of this. We do not censure nor criticize, but simply call attention to a fact to which our attention was called.
Dies Natalis Patris Patric.—This national holiday was duly celebrated at Notre Dame on the evening of the 21st ult. The Thespians presented, as was expected, “ The Iron Chest ” and ** The Review,” both of which were a complete success. A large audience was in attendance, and we had but one thing to regret, viz., that the hall was not larger, so that all might find seats. Seldom have we had a more appreciative audience, and the new plan lately adopted by the Societies and sanctioned by the authorities of the institution seems to have hit its mark.
“To Arms.”—Do not think that we mean the march of the Argonauts, for they were more than four in number. Not long since, at about p. m., {lunch time), we happened to be in the sick room. On glancing out of the window we saw four of the vanguard of a party of knights in full retreat, with muskets on their shoulders, for, as we thought, their headquarters at Ccenaculum; but they passed that place, ascended the heights and laid down their arms. It appears that they were not robbers nor scouts, and hence we have no apprehension of danger from them.
Base-Ball.—The excitement in base-balldom is increas ing. The Juniors and Collegiates have organized, and are prepared for settled weather. But we have not heard from the Seniors; no doubt their attention- has been too much engrossed with billiards of late to think of the ballfield. The Apprentices, we understand, are also to furnish a strong nine; and of course the Minims will not be slow to retain their laurels. Exercise is something that should not be neglected by any one, and especially by the young, whose bodies are not yet grown; and base-ball, as plaj ed at Notre Dame, answers the purpose very well, bringing about a healthy and harmonious development of the body, in proof of which we have but to refer you to the base ball field. Where will you find a healthier lot of students than are there assembled ?
Thesplan Banquet.—On the evening-after the Thespians had so well distinguished themselves, they were given a supper by the Rev. President of the University, at which many of the Rev. Clergy and other members of the Faculty were present, each of whom on being called upon addressed the Association in well-turned phrases, complimenting them upon the success which had attended their efforts on the preceding evening. After the other members of the Faculty and the invited guests had done, Prof. T. F. O'Mahony, B.S., the worthy President of the Association was called upon, who, after thanking those who had so flatteringly complimented such as participated in the ’ Exhibition, admonished the Society that they should profit by these remarks of their friends and admirers
instead of considering themselves perfect. Thus happily and well did this convivial entertainment end.
Our Music Boz. —-■
So much has been said in praise of the Band and Orchestra already, that we forbear saying anything more at present. We believe in the old saying “ too much of a good thing,” etc.
Card, of Thanks from the Thespians.
We take this opportunity of returning sincere thanks to Mr. H. Beckman, of Cleveland, Ohio, for the kind manner in which he remembered the Society, by a donation. We are sorry that he was unable to be present at the Exhibition, but hope soon however to see him again a visitor at Notre D.ime. In this return, of thanks we must by no means forget our worthy Director, Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C., to whom we are grateful for the feast he gave the Society and their friends. Finally, our thanks are due to Messrs. Staley, Waterman and Rofinot, for the willing manner in which they assisted us at the last Exhibition.
D. E. Maloney, Secretary.
The St. Edward’s.—" '
The third regular meeting for the present session was held on the 18th ult., at which the subject '
“ Pesdlved, That Intoxicating Liquors have been more destructive to Mankind than the Implements of War,” was proposed for discussion. Mr. Finley arose in behalf of the affirmative in. an able and quite lengthy speech. He pictured in' brilliant colors the terrible scourges that the use of intoxicatiug liquors has inflicted upon mankind, and showed in a forcible manner it has been by far the more cruel and destructive enemy. Mr. Hogan, for the negative, chose to meet his opponent from a historical point of view, and brought to the attention of his audience the numerous and bloody wars of ancient times, and to what an extent they had decreased the population of the different nations in which they occurred. Mr. Walters failing, Mr. McCormick volunteered in his place for the affirmative, in a short and telling speech. Mr. McAlister was next in order f<.r the negative, and advanced some good arguments in favor of his side. Mr. Finley then closed the debate, and the President gave his decision in favor of the affirmative. After a few remarks by the President, the meeting adjourned.	M. M. Foote, Cor. Sec.
Junior Orchestra.
Mr. Editor: The first regular meeting of the Junior Orchestra was held Wednesday, the 26th ult., for the purpose of electing officers. Bro. Camillus was elected by acclamation to the office of Director. The election of the other officers then took place, and resulted as follows:
President—C. Burger.
Vice-President—J. McHugh.
Secretary—E. €r. Ohmeri
Censor—J. Hackett.	. ’ .
We have met and practiced several times, under the skilful management of Bro. Leopold. The Junior Orchestra
158
THE SCHOLASTIC.
promises to be a success. The following is a list of the
players:	-	X
First Violin—J. McHugh, F. Miller.
Second Vi lin—W. Kinzie, J. Ljnch.
Flute—E G. Ohnier.
Piccolo—W. Ohlen.
Clarionet—W. Rumely.	.	.
Cornet—C. Burger.	.
Trombone—L. Van’t Woud.	'
Bass—J. Hackett.	E. G. Ohmer, Secretary.
N. D.jj. C. B.
The reorganization of the Band for the second session took place February 8th, at which the following officers were elected:
Director—Bro. Camillus, C.S.C.
President—Rev. J. O’Connell, C.S.C.
Vice-President—Jas Noonan.
Secretary—AI. M. Foote.
Treasurer—C. J. Dodge.
First Censor—W. Wallace.
Second Censor—Jas. Murphy.
On taking the chair, the President addressed a few words to the members present, complimenting them upon their success so far, exhorting them to redouble their energy for the remainder of the year, that they may realize the high est expectations of their friends. Every word was an assurance of the deep interest that is felt for us by our worthy President. A committee was then appointed to ■wait upon the able and efficient leader of the Band, Mr. J. TT Gillespie, and address to him words of gratitude for bis zealous labors in behalf of the Society during the past session. The members all appreciate the services of their leader, and are determined, with his co-operation, to render the Band of ’“3 a grand success.
M. M. Foote, Secretary.
Base-Ball.
With the new session have returned the bright anticipations of spring time, that most pleasant portion of the whole year for the student, mt only because it blings to his mind more vivid visions of the 25th of June, but because it is then that he can engage in the outdoor sports and exercises that invigorate him and make him strong, healthy, and better fit to study during class hours. But our heading restricts us to one game, namely, base-ball ; and in that regard it is needless to say that this is one of the most popular games engaged in by the students of Notre Dame. But this session some very strange surmises and remarks have been made by sundry persons. Some have insinuated that base-ball, to use their expression, is played out, and should be allowed to remain as a game of me past. The students, however, rise up en masse to protest against any such arrangement, and indeed seem to expect the liveliest season of base-ball yet known at the University. Others say that it is too one-sided, and that t ie Juniors will sweep everything before them. We make no comments; time will tell. Others again, among whom we are numbered, believing that the more the merrier, and that in base-ball, as in everything else, each department should be represented, thought it proper for the Collegiate students to organize a nine and contest for the championship. Prompt to the suggestion, nine of the Collegians met on the 18th of February, and formed what is to be known as the “ Collegiate Nine,” of the University of Notre Dame. The following officers were elected :
Director—Bro. Norbert Joseph..
President—E. B. Gambee.
Secretary—M. M. Foote.	•.
Treasurer—H. W. Walker.
Fidd-Captain—C. J. Dodge.	S. S.
Boll of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week peceding the given date.]	-
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1873.
Senior Department.
H. Allen, B. Alford, F. Bitter, C. Berdel, J. Burnham, M. Bas-tarache, V. M. Baca, W. Bartlett, G. Brown, J. Brown, M. Brown, V. Baca, J. Begue, M. Bannon, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, W. Clarke, J. Comer, G. Crummey, J. Claffey, E. Chalfant, B. Dorsey, J. Devine, F. Donnelly, C. Dodge, P. Downey, W. Dodge, T. Dundon, C. Dulaney, H. Dulaney, T. Flannigan, T. Fitzpatrick, M. Foote, J. Flynn, J. Gillen, A. Greening, E. Graves, E. Halpin, J. Harrington, L. Hinkston, J. Hand, G. Hale, A. Hess, J. Hamilton, P. Jacobs, T. Keenan, A. Kreich-gauer, J. Kelly, P. Lilly, J. McGlynn, E. Morancy, D. Maloney, J. Murphy, T. Murphy, A. Mooney, J. McCormick, E. McSweeney, E Mullen, E. McLaughlin, J. Noonan, P. O’Meara,' P. O’Connell, J. O’Brien, P. O’Mahony, F. Phelan, C. Proctor, G. Ruger, E. Spitley, G. Stack, F. Scrafford, G. Summers, J. Scherei, M. Torbett, S. Valdez, C. Vinson, T. White, L. Watson, H. Walker, C. Walter, J. Wolfe; H. Zeitler.
’	Junior Department.-
B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, L. Busch, C. Black, C. Burger, J. Burke, H. Bennett, J. Carmody, J. Caren, J. Campbell, M. Casey, J. Callaghan; E. Dougherty, J. Dore, W. Dexter, Jas. J. Dunn, P. Daly, H. Enneking, J. Ewing, J. Friedman, C. Furer, W. Gross, J. Graham, H. Hunt, J. Hanley, E. Holt, W. Haney, H. Hoffman, M. Hilliard, L. Hibben, R. Hutchings, J. Jepson, A. Kleine, A. Kreiter, W. Kinzie, H. Kinley, R. Lewis, F. McOs-ker, T. McGee, J. Mullarky, E. McMahon; W. McMahon, S. Marks, W. Morgan, E. Milburn, F. Miller, H. Mathews, V. McKinnon, F. Mul’igan, N. Mooney, J. McNulty, D. McAndrews, H. Nirdlingcr, J. O'Connell, E. Ohmer, C. O'Connor, J .Quill, A. Ried, C. Ried, C. Ruger, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, A. Schmidt, F. Shephard, J. Skalla, F. Smyth, W. Schulthics, T. Sauvageot, P. Tansey, J. Tobin, N. Vannamec, S. Wise, J. Wanbaugh, O. Waterman, J. Wilson, J. Williams, F. Wittelspirger, A. Baker.
Minim Department.
T. Nelson, E Raymond, H. Faxon, C. Faxon,' J. Cooney, A. Koch, T. Hooley, K. Haley, F. Carlin, E. Cleary, C. McKiunon, J. Nelson, W. O’Hara.	J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
Class Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the.names of those students who have given satisfaction in dll studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course.; third week, those of the Preparatory ; fourth week, Music,'Fine Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director of Studies.]
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1873.
Commercial Departaient.
A. Mooney, J. Harrington, E. Mullen, W. McAlister, F. Phelan, F. Hamilton, J. Quill, M. Torbett, T. Fitzpatrick, W. Briant, S. Valdez, C. Dulaney, J. Wolfe, G. Stack, C. Butler, H. Cassidy, C. Vinson, E. Morancy, J. Schmidt, P. O’Mahony, J. Hoffman, T. Flanagan, J. Comer, A. Greening, P. O’Brien, H. Beekman, E. Spitley, C. Ruger, H. Hunt, W. Gross, J. O’Connell, L. Loser, J. Mullarky, E. Milburn, J. Stubbs, L. Hibben, G. Ruger, J. Devine, W. Meyers, S. Wise.	.
Victor Phelan, George Nester, John A. Trimble, Laurence Wilson, Charles V. Martin, J. P. Shanahan,
Arrivals.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Saginaw City, Michigan. Marshfield, Indiana. Madison, Indiana. Detroit, Michigan. Detroit, Michigan.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
199
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
'f
St. Mary’s Academy, February 25,1873.
For Politeness, Neatness, Older, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor, (Sr. Dep’t.), Feb. 23,1873.
Misses Katie Zell, Mary Cochrane, Mary Lassen, Alice Mast, Alice Shea, Katie Haymond, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Minnie Lange, Aline Todd, Lizzie Niel, Mary Kearney, Annie M. Clarke, Nellie Gross, Rose L. Devoto, Mary E. Brown, Rose Mary Spier, Rose Mary Green, Lillie West Mary Comer, Libbie Black, Nellie Langdon, Marietta Ward, Emily Haggarty, Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Ida Wilder, Julia Kearney,-Bay Reynolds, Mary Wicker, Loretto Ritchie, Bridget Grace, Lizzie Daley, Kittie Finley, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church, Josephine Locke, Esther Boyce, Sarah Shipley, Julia Fanning, Amelia Keeline, Annie T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, Mary Riley, Jennie Noonan, Agatha St. Clair, Addie Hambleton, Nellie Foote, Hanna McMahon, Annie O’Connor, Nellie Herdy, Mary A. Roberts, E. Wade, B. Wade, R. Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, C. Germain, Flora Rush, K.’Casey, Rose Rosesco, Emma Ives, Ella Quinlan, Nellie McEwen, Mary McGuire, Agnes Conahan, M. Pinney, Ella Howell, Mary White, Sarah Chenoweth, Anna Belle Stockton, Josie Connors. .Mamie Dillon, Dora Simonds, Livinia Forrester, R. Marr, Katie Wickham, Rose Klar, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, Lizzie Schieber, Fannie Snouffer, T. Heckman, K. Isman, Nora McMahon, A. Monroe, M. Lyons, H. Miller, Nellie Hinkston, M. Ernest Black, R. McKeaver, L. Lilly, M. Kane, B. Turnbull, Cora Lee.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Graduating Class—Misses K. Zell, Mary Lassen, Alice Mast, Alice Shea, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Aline Todd.
First Senior Class—Lizzie Niel, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Rose Mary Green, Mary Comer, Libbie Black'.
Second Senior Class — Misses Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Ida Wilder, Julia Kearney, Bay Reynolds, Mary .Wicker, Lettie Ritchie, Bridget Grace, Kittie Finley, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church, L. Dragoo, Esther Boyce.
Third Senior Class — Jennie Walton, Julia Fanning, Annie T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, Nellie Foote, Lou Beckman, Annie O’Connor, Nellie Heedy, Annie Reid.
First Preparatory Class—Bell Wade, R. Woolman, L. Pfeiffer, Flora Rush, Mary Quill, Lizzie Ritchie, M. E. Roberts, Addie Roberts, Ella Quinlan, N. McEwen, Mary McGuire, Agnes Conahan, Maria Pinney.
Second Preparatory Class — Sarah Chenoweth, Mary White, Dora Simonds, L. Forrester, Katie Wickham, Juanna- Valdez, R. Manzanares, Lizzie Scheiber, Fannie Snouffer, Tillie Heckmau.
Third Preparatory Class—Nora McMahon, A. Monroe, Henrietta Miller, Nellie Hinkston, Mary E Black, Rose . McKeaver, Mary Kane, Belle Turnbull, Cora Lee.
DRAWING.
First Class—Misses K. Young, R. Devoto.
Second Division—E. Wade, B. Wade, L. Weinreich, A. Keeline, L. Pfeiffer.
Second Class—Misses S. Chenoweth, D. Simonds, S. Shipley, R. Woolman, Mary Black, J. Voorhees.
Second Division—Misses S. Smith, L. Forrester, N. McAuliffe, N. McMahon, A. Gollhardt.
Third Class—M. Booth, C. Smith, E. Orton.
OIL PAINTING.
First Class—Misses L. Black, B. Reynolds.
Second Class—Misses E. Wade, B. Wade, E. Howell, E. Pfeiffer, L. Forrester, A. Keeline, S. Shipley.
VOCAL MUSIC.
First Class—Lillie West.
Second Division—Rose Devoto, Libbie Black, M. Prince, E. Haggarty.
Second Class—M. Wicker, A. Shea, J. Noonan, N. Langdon, A. Goldhart.
Second Division—Leila James, N. Foote, M. Letourneau, L. Beckman, S. Shipley, J. Locke, T. Heckmau.
Third Class—M. Kearney, J. Kearney, M. McGuire, A. Roberts, H. McMahon, R. Marr, A. Ried,' M. Faxon, S. Smith, L. Daley, Miss Penniman.
Second Division—K. Schmidt, M. Comer, N. McMahon, B. Grace, S. Chenoweth, Miss Kaeseberg.
General Class — A. Lynch, S. Lvnch, A. Walsh, M Walsh, L. Walsh, M. Carlin, M. Booth, N. O’Meara, M. Hildreth.
This Class deserves special mention for the rapid improvement shown by their correct rendition of beautiful duets, quartets and choruses, in presence of the visitors to the Class.
Tablet of Honor (Jr. Dep’t), Feb. 25,1873.
Ella Richardson, A. Smith, K. Joyce,' M. Faxon, L. McKinnon, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch, B. Quan, N. Vigil, E. Orton, T. Schulte, S. Lilly, M. Brown, A. Walsh, K. Schmidt, J. and M. Thomson, R. Hooley, C. Smith, L. Schuerle, B. Hassler, T. Cronin,. M. Reynolds, M. Booth, M. Carlin, K. Lloyd, M. Ewing, M. Hildreth, C. Walker, A. Koch, K. Follmer, A. Paulsen, K. Hector, E. Lappin, E. Lang, A Ewing, E. Hassler, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, M. Ware. E. Jackson, S. Lynch, G. Hooley, D. Allen, M. Kaeseberg, A. Green, J. Tallman, N. Lloyd, N. O’Meara.
Honorably Mentioned in the
Second Senior Class—E. Richardson, A. Smith.
Third Senior Class—K. Joyce.	K
First Preparatory Class—L Tinsley, M. Faxon.
Second Preparatory Class—A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch, B. Quan.
Third Preparatory Class—N. Vigil, T. Schulte, S. Lilly.
First Junior Class—N. O’Meara, M. Walsh, K Schmidt, J. and M. Thompson, R. Hooley, C. Smith, L. Schuerle, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, M. Reynolds, A. Burney, M. Booth.
Second Junior Class—M. Ewing, C. Walker, A. Koch, A. Paulsen, E. Lappin, E. Lang. A. Ewing, E. Hassler, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, M. Ware, E. Jackson, S. Lynch, M. Kaeseberg.
Third Junior Class—A. Green, J. Tallman, A. Green, N, Lloyd, M. Green.
“ I say, Pat; have you seen Mario yet ?”
“Mary O’who, Mike?
“ Mario, the tinner.”
“ Go ’long wid ye, ye spalpeen; if ye mane Mary O’Shaughnessy why don’t ye spake out, and not be tumblin’ aroun’ her wid yer Latin. Av koorse I know her, and a broth uv a girl she is too.”
They have morning concerts in England, commencing at three o’clock in the afternoon.
200
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Oc	■
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription, $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years $5, in advance.	'
For 1 year, $3, in advance.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Avb Ma bia for $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $45, in advance
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Makia for $50, in advance.
The postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paicfat the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THIRTST-TWO PAGES EVERT MONTH. $1.00 PER AJraJTJM.
'	Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
SoiHig flmsdw,
Which will he read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending One Dollar to the Editor, DEV. WILLIAM BYRNE, ‘	Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NILES I SO BTH BEND RR.
•	GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles,	-	6.50 a m.	Arrive South Bend,	-	7 30 a m
'	9 35 a.m “	“ '	1015 a.m
“	4.5'1 p.m. “	“	5.39	p.m
GOING NORTH. Leave South Bend, - 8.4n a.m. | Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
“ • “	11.45 a.m. “	12 25 p m
>	“	“	6.30 p.m. I “	7.iu p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m
“	“	5.30 p.m. I ,l “	b.3dpm
'	S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
UNI VEE SIT Y OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1812, and Chartered in 1844.
. This Institution, incorporated in 184 4. enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hun-
•dred Students.	•	'
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee. -	.	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition < Latin and Greek); Washing and Mending of Liueus, per Se.-sion of five months, -	- 1'0 00
French. German Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 In-trnmental Music, -	-	-	-	-	•	-	-	-	.12 50
Use of Piano, ----------- 10 00 U<e of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing. -	---------- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra -	-	35 00
.Payments to be made invariably in advance.	’
. Class. Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Sessiou begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on the 1st of February.	■	-
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. XaSmONNISR, C.S.C.,
. President.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
fTTRAINS now leave South Bend as follows:	
GOING	EAST.
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.	■ Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a. m
“	“	12.25 p. m.	“	“	4.05 a. m
“	“	9.15 p. m.	“	“	1.35 p. m
“	“	12 35 a. m.	“	“	5.30 p. m
“	“	8.2o p. m.	' Runs to Elkhart.
“	“	4.35 p. m.	
GOING	WEST.
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m.	Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m
“	“	2 55 a. m.	••	“	6.50 a. m
“	“	5 00 a. m.	“	“	8.20 a. m
“	“	6.05 pm. •	“	“	9.40 p. m
“	’•	6.37 a. m.	“	10 30 a. m
“	“	8.20 a. m.	“	“	12.30 p. m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
XQF" For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.	.
4®" Crains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
J. H. DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.	•
CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland, ’
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J W. Cari*, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio. .
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolcuaud, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
. To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights, 6.33 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a.m.; 9.25 p. m.
Freights. 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line fflWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-lip isou Street Bridge, as follows:	.	.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, 111., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Maili Line;
St. Louis aud Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
*9:15 a.m. *4:80 p.m.
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
+9-.00 p.m. J7-.15 a.m.
+9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. 1 Dail y. § Except. Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pultniun Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains. '
JAMES CHARLTON, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
J. C. McMULLIN.
Gen’l Superintendent," CHICAGO.
PEXSSYEVAN1A CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.	• -
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m 1 Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “ -	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	9.00 p. m |	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at. Crestline with trains North and South, and at Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad. -
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. .
F. R. MYE.iS. Geu'l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh	'
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.,
• Second day.	‘	■	•