Edited by the Students.
ii Etabor omnia vincit.”
Vol. I.
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY, JUNE 20, 1868.
No. XLH
Editors of the Present Number;
Denis A. Clarke,
Nathen S. Wood.
ri'MIE “SCHOLASTIC! YEAR” is devoted to the interests of A the Students, and will be’ issued weakly, at $2 50 per annum, payable in advance.
Students of the University of .Notre Dame, and the Pupils of St. Mary’s Academy, may obtain the Scholastic Year at the reduced rate of $100 per annum.	.	.
Contributions. must always be accompanied with name of author, otherwise no attention will bo gven to them.
All business letters should be addressed to	,
W. R. SPALDING, Cor. Secretary, ■	Notre Dame, Ind.
Rev. A. LEMONNTER, S. S. C., Director.
WELCOME AKD EASiEWEEE.
Welcome to our parents, our friends and our visitors: farewell to one another, to our classes, our teachers and our beloved Alma Mater! The mingled emotions of the ave atque vale press upon our minds and our hearts.
The festival of meeting and parting, of parting and meeting, is upon us. Dear friends and brothers, fellow-students of the past happy year, let us so conduct ourselves during this supreme time, that our friends who come may see in us young gentlemen, that our friends from whom we part may see in us young gentlemen even to the end. This is the exhibition in more senses than one; it is the exhibition of the progress and standing of our University; it is the exhibition of our proficiency in science, art and literature; and it is the exhibition of ourselves, in our manners and habits, as we mingle again in society which comes here to meet us. Let us see to it that we exhibit ourselves to our friends and the public to the best advantage.
But this is also the Commencement,—the day on . which we commence once more to takd our place among those who are engaged in the actual affairs of life: let us see to it that we commence well,
that this commencement may be for us the beginning of an honorable and useful life.
About i? part,—	. ’
.y be fo- - eks, and it may be forever,”
we shall s wdl to turn for a few moments and glance over the year that is past, to learn how well it has prepared us for those untried years which are to come. Are we wiser in mind, better in heart, stronger in body than on the first Tuesday in last September? Let us hope that it is so with us, for if it were not, we should look’ back upon our time as in greater or less part misspent. This is not a time for sad reflections, and we shall believe that there is no student who has attended Notre Dame during the past scholastic year that will not, in the far-off years which are, we trust,, in store for all of us, look back upon his stay at his Alma Mater as the most precious recollection of his youth, as the time when his heart became purer, his intellect brighter, and his manhood more ennobled. '
We ourselves, and those who have taught and guided us during the year, do not fully appreciate the changes which have taken place in us. These changes, like the trite wearing of the rocks by the dropping of the rain, have been so gradual as to be unnoticed by the constant observer; it is only they who saw us before we came here, and who are soon to see us again, that can notice the difference between what we were and what we are. Let us 'hope that when our friends look again upon us they will find in us more of manliness : that whenever they hear our names read in public, or read them in the Catalogue, they will be convinced that we have become disciplined in the ways of wisdom, and that when they observe our deportment both here and after we return home, they will be rejoiced in the reflection, that we have become better as well as. wiser.
To those who have cared so well for us, who

2	'	THE SCHOLASTIC. -YEAR. .
•	-	• f U A! * s 1 ’
have by precept and example impressed upon us those lessons of wisdom and virtue; to the Fathers, Brothers and Professors of the Institution, we return the warm thanks of youthful hearts. How well we have profited by what they have said and done for us, our future lives will show; but how well they have labored to do us good, is most deeply impressed upon our grateful souls. May they continue to do even so to generation after generation, until dear old Notre Dame is known to young and old through all the land, and loved as widely as she is known.
Once more we give welcome to our parents and friends, who come to meet us, to look upon the place, to witness the closing scene of the year, and to accompany us again to our happy homes. Besides ourselves, they will find many things changed at Notre Dame. Never before did the visitors on commencement-day see Our Lady’s University with such pleasant surroundings. Since the close of the winter the busy hands of her children have been adorning her for this gala day; and now she presents herself in all her loveliness, growing more beautiful and bright as the summer weather brings on the 'day when the multitude of her children are gathered into her loving presence. x	'
Farewell, dear companions ; no more shall we send out the weekly Scholastic Yeah, brimful of the pleasant chit-chat of college life, and sought by many an anxious eye whose owner hoped to find his name in honor on its pages ; for, be it? known to all, that in our day our printed page full oft was “ big with the fate of Cato and of Rome.” . '
Farewell, ye anxious and earnest companions of the class-room and the quiet study-room: may your vacation give needful rest to body and mind; and may many, very many, return reinvigorated ' when the new year comes around again. And may those who go to come no more, who enter the untried world for the first time, find that world as happy a place as they have found' old Notre Dame: we can wish them no better for. tune.	•
Farewell, good and kind Fathers, Brothers and . Professors; would that we had exerted ourselves more to lighten your labors, and to spare you many a trial, for which we shall be sorry years to come. But we trust that for you and for us there are so many pleasant memories that you will think with indulgence of all our shortcomings: and that it will give us all joy while we -live, whenever we call to'mind the past scholastic year.
- - - - - - - — . ..
Adieu.	.
• ■	• The last! no heart so cold .
That without sadness jt, can speak that word,— .
And yet from every lip how often heard
As, day by day, is told, Another page of life’s long history past Long in the telling, but how brief at last!
Triumph and pathos still, Mingle on every page;—no earthly gain, No joy is given without its shadowing pain;
Earth hath no power to fill Unto its uttermost the human heart With joy and hope—but grief still claims its part.
At last the hour hath come • Long looked for, yearned for, in impatient mood, . As holding all that heart could wish of good;—
Visions of friends and home, Of freedom, change, of plans and purpose dear, But half regretful now we see it near.
And once more on the past
We turn, with yearnings not less deep, to dwell;
Loath, now the time hath come, to say farewell, .
And look perhaps our last On kind familiar faces, and each scene Where so much pure and heartfelt joy hath been.
Friends, Fathers, Faithful Guides! Our hearts can never know a truer claim, Than ye have won to every grateful name
And whatsoe'er betides, Whate’er to each far-coming time may bring With kindly strength to you will memory cling.
Dear Alma Mater fair, . Dear Notre Dame, true mother thou hast been, Of knowledge deep and pure —holy—serone, Who sought, with tender care;
To teach each heart yet upward to aspire Above earth’s noblest hope—or best desire.
Upon thy wide domain, Lakes, river, woods and fields, we turn to gaze, And every well known favorite haunt retrace, With tender, loving pain;	•
Knowing, too well, that never round thy feet Again can all, as now, together meet. ■	■
• Even thy voice no more,—	'
Thy grand sweet voice—thy voice heard lar and near,— Shall ring for us its notes of warning clear;	’
Yet,—even as before,	•	’
In our own hearts, as in the ocean shell,	'
Will mournful cadence, or deep peaus swell.
We, who together dwelt, As brethren, walking in the pleasant ways ■ Of knowledge and of duty, prayer and praise ;
Whose boyish hearts have felt ' The purity of perfect friendship, known To ardent, true, unselfish youth alone;
We too must sunder now,	-	‘
And take in life each his appointed part, Lofty or lowly;—in the crowded mart
To toil.with beaded brow;
In senate hall—in camp—faithful and true
To take the task God giveth each to do.	•


m scholastic year.	- 3

One left ns ere the time
Had come for all to part,—his hest fulfilled, Even on life’s threshold,—his quick pulses stilted;—
Well for us, if our prime
Finds us, too, ready when our day is o’er, To meet our boyhood’s friend,—gone long before.
Oh! instinct good and true,
That links our partings with the thought of God,— ‘ That gives into His hands with parting word.— * (God be with thee—Adieu-
No Christian tongue but knoweth how to tell'
In some sweet word—“ God guard, and speed thee well.”)
—Oh! were it not for this, How could we bear these partings?—how endure Earth’s changefuklot, if faith did not ensure
Each well loved one we miss,
Is in God’s keeping?—Friends, companions true, Dear boyhood’s home—a heartfelt, fond Adieu.
LOCAL.
The Choir of Notre Dame.
AIEHBERS OF THE^ CHOIR.	I
Conductor—Prof. Max Girac.	t
Organist—Bro. Basil, J. S. C.	CfF'/
Sopranos.—V. Hackman, Solo Soprano; Benj.
Heffernan, C. Hutchings, R. Staley, John Dunne.
Altos.—T. Ward, Jerome Crevoisier, M. Foote, Frank Nicholas, Philip White.
Tenors.—Prof. M. T. Corby, Solo Tenor; Prof. W. J. Ivers, Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, Second Solo Tenors; Jas. McBride, Jas. Dickinson, Nat. S. Wood, Frank Heitman, W. Rhodes.
Bass.—P. J. Lauth, S. 8- C, Solo Bass; Prof. E. A. McNally, Baritone; Bro. Leopold, Second Solo Bass; James Watts, Frank Pape, Jos. Lafferty, Jos. Garhartstine, A. J. O'Reilly, M. 8. Ryan.
The Examination,
The Examination began last Thursday morning and was conducted under the supervision of four Boards which were as follows:
First Board.—Rev. Father Superior presiding; Rev. M. B. Brown, S. 8. C., Mr. P. Lauth, S. 8. 0., Prof. T. E. Howard, Prof. M. T. Corby, Prof. E. A. McNally, Prof. J. O’Hara, Prof J. Lundy, Bro. ' Philip, Bro. Celestine.
Second Board.—Rev. A. Lemonnier presiding; Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. 8. C., Rev. J. Frere, 8. S. C., Prof. J. A. Lyons,-Prof. M. Baasen, Mr. J. Dinnem Prof. C. VonWeller, Bro. Benjamin, Bro. Joseph Cal., Bro. Ambrose*.
Third Board.—Rev. M. M. Hallinan presiding; Rev. T. L. Vagnier, S. S. C., Rev. J. W. Ruthman, S. S. C., Rev. D. J. Spillard, S. 8. C., Prof. L. G. Tong, Prof. W. M. Ivers, Prof. A. J. Stace.
Fourth Board—For the Examination of the Book-keeping Classes.—Rev. Father Superior presiding; Prof. L. G. Tong, Prof. J. A. Lyons, Prof. W. M. Ivers, Prof. E. A. McNally, Prof. A. J. Stace, Prof. Lundy.
------w
Very Rev. Father E. Sorin, our beloved Provincial, has safely reached the shores of the Old World, and sends due notice of it to all his friends. We learn from the Very Rev. Father thht he had a pleasant trip on the Australasian, and, moreover, that the steamers going to. Europe are so crowded this year that no traveler needs look for much comfort on board; all the berths are secured a month in advance.
Now that the names of the members of the Choir come for the last time before our little Republic, the Director thinks it to be his duty to say something about the studies and labors of the Choir. In strict propriety, perhaps-, this task belonged to another hand; but since it cannot be found, we assume the work—not for the vain desire of speaking of ourself, which always has been repulsive to our feelings. On the other hand, what we will say will be more gratifying to the Choir, as coming from one better able to judge of their merits and give them the justice they deserve. . In the early part of the session, the Choir studied and produced Dedler’s Second Mass, an elegant work, to which the Conductor added- a little duet in order to suit it to grand festivals. Simply written, though ably composed, it was soon ready for the services. As soon as this was over, the Choir was engaged in reviving some of the Masses of the preceding year, such as Mo-' zart’s Second,- which the Choir was eager to reproduce on account of the high merits of this work, and also because, not having been heard very often previously, it .was almost a novelty; and such as Mr. Girac’s First and Second Masses, which had, the latter especially, enjoyed a great popularity. These Masses, though being revivals, were not an easier nor a less difficult study, most of the singers, the Juniors especially, being entirely new comers. As early as February, 1868, the Choir commenced to study a new Mass for Easter, Prof. Girac’s Mass in B^, which, though longer and more complicated than any ever produced at Notre Dame, was resolutely commenced
4
THE SaHOLASTTGWEAR.
and brought to an end with complete success■ even more, it is .one of the works, though the indst difficult, which the singers know best, per-' form best, and in which they have always manifested the most intense interest. We do' not mention many other works, more or less important, for Benediction; but there are two we shall, not pass over in silence: the beautiful Magnificat, adapted to the celebrated Gloria chorus of Mozart’s Twelfth Mass, and the graceful and effective 0 Gloriosa of Lambilotte—these are two bright jewels added to the crown which encircles •the head of the Choir of Notre Dame.
For these brilliant achievements the choir is much indebted to the hearty cooperation of Prof. M. T. Corby whose brilliant tenor voice has been .the principal ornament of our sacred performances ; also to Professors Wm. Ivers, one of our best musicians, and M. A. J. Baasen—always present and always zealous. P. Lauth and Professor E. A. McNally had this year the opportunity of displaying their excellent bass voices, and have shown great proficiency. One of the features of the choir, this year, has been the aptitude, and the efficiency of the Juniors, by far the best we ever had in the’ University both as to their voices and their training, and the most prominent among them was the young and talented V. Hackman, whose musical acquirements, vocal powers and solidity in performing would do honor to a quite grown man. We cannot give the name of every one in the choir, though all have done their duty to the utmost.
On the great and solemn feasts of the Catholic Church, the divine service. was not confined to the singing; a limited but efficient orchestra, combined with the excellent organ of our church contributed to give to the choir a power and effect not inferior to that of any church in this country, and superior to most of them. Such was, on many occasions, the excellence of our. church performances, that in a large city they would have filled with crowded audiences the largest cathedrals. This orchestra was composed of Brothers and students. Among the latter we cannot refrain from citing the name of Mr. James Watts, as distinguished by his talent as by his polite and always ready assistance; Mr. C. Hertich, and Master Rumley. ' Prof. Ivers, already mentioned in the choir, played the contrabasso, and managed the huge monster so as to make it as obedient as a lapdog.
■ ■ Such was the choir of 1868 at Notre Dame, the performances of which will, doubtless, be for
every member one'of -the bright remembrances 'of'the past/ r '/ V-'*	1	. >*' * •
farewell
, A few short days,—then;all is past,— bld friends'will part —new ties be formed, But yet, where’er oiir barque is cast, Our College stay will ne’er be mourned.
In distant climes—in far-off lands,— Where life’s dark sky is overcast,— We’ll think with joy of those dear bands, Then to be numbered with the past. ,
We’ll think of how we daily sought, ‘.J The hill of Science steep to climb, ‘	'
Of how, with earnest will, we' wroiight, To improve the short and fleeting time.
With fond remembrance we will dwell On those whose every action, deed, Tended to dreary thoughts dispel, Our mind with useful food to feed.
The time is close,—alas!. too near,— When, from those friends we’re forced to part, Who,-through the swiftly closing year, Wisdom and knowledge sought t’ impart.
To them we owe a lasting debt, Which never can be fully paid, One-which bur thanks will e’er beget,— . From memory’s tablet never fade.
Comrades must speak a lasb adieu . Ere yet another week willpass,; .
On life’s great sea we’ll form a crew, - Our aim,—o’er dll to safely pass. .
With help of Him we’ll gain the shore,— With life’s troubles,'cares o’ercame,— But ne’er, in life,.will we deplore, Our happy stay at Notre Dame.
Jos. D. Murphy.
Rev. A. Lemoknier,-S. S. C., takes the oppor-. tunity, afforded him by...the,Scholastic Yeah, to tell his friends and those who wish to send messages through him, or commission him to transact any business to which he may attend, that he will leave for France on the 24th inst., and will embark in New York on the 27th inst., on the City of Paris of the Inman Line, with two 1 young friends, Masters H. Benoist and E. Benoist ■ of St. Louis, who accompany him on a vacation tour. ;
THE; SGHOLASTIG YEAR.	”?	“	5
. x* .	i J 2- . ’	1 . , _ -	- -
. . .As we. close this week the. regular edition of The Scholastic Yeah, we feel it a sacred; duty to return thanks to all-.those-who have so kindly, and generously contributed to its welfare and-steady improvement?	;
To the Professors we owe, in a great part, the scholarly tone of the paper: to the Studentspf the Editorial Corps we owe itsgehius.’" .‘We,know whom we ought to thank most?but'we decline to give names, lest we might offend the, modesty of those who sought not fame' when they labored hard for the cause to whichtheyhad mot-barely lent their names. Others, we' hope; will come in future years, and improve the field which the Editors of 1868 first surveyed. We say improve, for we will not take to ourselves all the good that may be done, and although we also have a great amount of pride, yet we grant that the experience of the past will aid our successors, and that as the sons have generally advantages greater than those which their parents enjoyed in their days, so also will the Editors of 1869 have a fair start on their predecessors.	-
Be the future what it may, we think we have pleased our contemporaries, and that we have not spared any effort to render our paper interesting to the little boy as well as to the young man, and that The Scholastic Year did not fail to bring gla£ tidings to many homes, week after week, during the first year of its publication..
- We will say, moreover, for our own sake, that we always sought upright dealings, and made it ' a point to steer straight ahead the little craft on which all had a right to ship and forward their thoughts. '
But enough of these reflections. If there have been any shortcomings on our part, we humbly beg the forgiveness of ottr readers. We also return sincere thanks to those who have printed our paper, to the chief manager of the Ave Maria printing office, whose patience we taxed so often, and to all his able assistants, whom we have always found kind and gentlemanly.
.	■	The Director.
United Scientific Association.
The last Soiree Scientifique of the season • took . place on the evening of the 14th inst. The Head of the Department of Natural History delivered . a lecture on “ The Ant and its Habits,” in which he •. took occasion to show by a forcible series of illustrations, the advantages which the man of.
'science possesses over the non-scientific. The ant, heing. naturally diminutive, did not occupy ,mucll space in-the lecture. The audience were evidently; pleased and interested. On the Sun, day previous, the Head of the Mathematical Department had delivered a very interesting and instructive lecture on the “History of Mathematics;” The Secretary then read the following Farewell Ode:	’	.
FAREWELL ODE TO THE D. S. A.
BY OXE OF -’EM.
. ' ' Air.—“.Coming Through, the Rye.”
Dear friends and comrades, sad the hour
That strikes for us to part;,	, 1
E'en though affection's gentle power 1 ' Unites us still at heart. .	' '
Before you, see a bright career ’
Unfold to future story: ; ' - * ’ .
Seek not your safety in the rear,	■ !
But in the ran your glory.	.
For though we fight ’neath banners white - • We wound, yea! kill our foes ;	.
Impaled on pins, they mourn their sins, Done off in dismal rows.	•
The man who nature would explore A walker good must be;	" ,
•Both eyes and man are sharpened more . .
By their activity.	'	.
• Our pillars firm establishing
. So deep that frost can’t rot ’em, We boast, though founded in the Spring, •
A solid winter bottom. ’
The building still'may be too great— So high our aspirations,—	,
And tumbling meet a heeler's fate In spite of its foundations.
Each member, whether home he goes, Or stays to spend vacation;
Will often let his thoughts repose On our association.	■
As late, with intellectual air,
From hunting bugs we came, E’en Audbubon, had he been there, .
. Would “ qui nenalt la ?” exclaim.
O'Mahony against John Bull
May threaten Fenian ordeal, •	_
Yet still a heart with vengeance fhU To John's son may ba cordial.
And should we reach—my constant prayer— A bachelor’s degree,	- .
This to make brides of lasses fair ■ ‘ ’No obstacle would be.	.
The uninitiated think
These rhymes, no doubt, absurd, But Scientific men will link _ .
A thought to every word.	' ■
6
THE SCHOLASTIC0TEAR’.
And ■when—studentially,—■'we die,	/
And go to heaven—vacation!
■We’ll breathe one last united sigh-Entifio ’Sociation.
The Association then adjourned until the first Sunday in the coming month of September.
By order of the Director,	‘ -
H. M. D.
—   ———■ •
THE PAPAL BEHEDIOTIOH,
Tees Saint Pere: Humblement prosternes aux pieds de Votre Saintete et heureux d’avoir pu faire parvenir, au Saint SiSge, leur obole en faveur de 1’ArmGe Pontificate, le Reverend Pere Sorin et les cloves de 1’Universite de Notre Dame du Lac, Etat-d’Indiana, Etats Unis d’Amerique, sollicitent pour eux et leurs families la benediction Apostolique qu’ils considbreront coniine la plus grande recompense de leur denouement a la sainte cause de 1’Eglise.
Rome, ce 7 Alai, 1868.	’
Dominus vos Benedicat et Dirigat corda VESTRA ET INTELLIGENTIAS VESTRAS.	*
PIUS PP. IX.
.	[translation.] ’
Most Holy Father : Humbly prostrate at the feet of Your Holiness, and happy to have been able to bring to the Holy See their mite in favor of the Pontifical Army, the Reverend Father Sorin and his pupils of the University of Notre Dame du Lac, State of Indiana, United States of America, solicit for themselves and families the Apostolic Benediction which they consider as the greatest recompense of. their devotion to the holy cause of the Church.	‘
Rome, this 7th. of May, 1868.
May the Lord Bless you, and direct your HEARTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS.
'	. PIUS PP. IX.
It will be agreeable to our visitors from the West to learn that an extra train has been secured for the night of the 24th, and that they will have sufficient time to attend the Exhibition at the University and at the Academy. This extra train will leave South. Bend for Chicago at 8%P. M.	.
We hereby acknowledge the liberality* of the officers of M. S. & N. I. Railroad who have so kindly offered their generous assistance on the occasion of our Annual Commencement.
.	. Philodeinic,
The final meeting of the Philodemic Literary Association,was field,on ;Tuesday evening, June 9th. After the usual preliminary business, the President remarked that there would be no debate, as this was.tbe last meeting. Sir. John Grogan, the President of .the Two-Penny Club, then arose and made, an eloquent valedictory, in which he gave the origin, history, and object of the TwoPenny Club. His speech met with great applause • from all, the members. After short addresses from- many of the members, Sir. A. SI. Owen arose and made an enthusiastic speech. He returned his sincere and heartfelt thanks to the Publishers of the Gazette of Two-Penny Glub.	- .
’ The President, Rev. A. Lemonnier, then made a long and appropriate valedictory. He stated that he was very well pleased with the Society,-and thought that a marked improvement could be observed in all the members. He also remarked that although all of us should never meet again, we should always remember the pleasant time we had spent during our connection with the Philodemic Society. After bidding all an affectionate farewell, he closed his remarks. .
Time being limited, on motion the Society adjourned until the next scholastic year.
War. Walker, Recording Sdb.
“ Our friend, Amos K. Clay, was admitted to the bar a few days ago, and has commenced the practice of law. Years of patient study and practical application to the profession have prepared him for the course upon which he; has entered, and will doubtless insure a successful career.—Miamisburg Bulletin." ~
Mr. Clay was formerly a student at Notre Dame, and, although young at that time, gave ample evidence of that natural talent which is the sure pledge of success. We, who witnessed with pleasure the dawning vigor of his intellect, feel safe in predicting for him a useful and brilliant career in the legal profession. And while we offer him our congratulations in his successful mastery of the preliminary studies in. his important profession, we shall certainly rejoice at the fulfillment of our high expectations of his future success.
No man can suffer by bad fortune, but he who has been deceived by good. -
THE; SCHOLASTIC YEAK.
7
BISEBALL
Star of Use West vs. BSutaa!
“Where are you, Michael?” Johnny calls; -
“ I’m ‘ Short Stop’ don’t you see ?	'
I’ve got that Mutual ‘on the fly,’	'
This ball looks small to me I” '
The match game of baseball played between the Star of the West, Jr., and Mutual, Sr., was the’cause of considerable excitement at NotreDame." As the Mutuals played the Juanita Club the week before, it was thought that'the Star of the West should not aspire to play them after ■ their warmly contested game with the champions of Notre Dame. About half-past 12 o’clock, all were aroused by Prof. J. O’Neill’s Brass Band, on its march to the grounds.
’ The game commenced at one o’clock. Mr. W. B. Smith was called upon to act as umpire, which he kindly consented to do, and the game commenced immediately, the Star of the West Club taking the lead and keeping it throughout the game. The ball which was played for, was presented ‘to the club (S. W. B. B. C.) by Bro. Florentins, for which they thank him very much. The following is the score of the game :
STAB OF THE WEST.	o. 1 R.	MUTUAL.	Io.	R.
M. Brannack, s. s., —	-2 5	E. Teats, p., - - 			3	3
J. Wilson, lb.,-		4 5	A. O’Reilly, c. f., - - -	3	2
J. Flanigen, p.,		2 S	J. Garharstine, 3 b., - -	1	4
J. Ingersoll, 1. f.,		2 S	J. McBride, 2 b.,		4	0
			3	3
E. Hutchings, 2 b.,		1 S	J. Dickinson, 1. f., - - -	5	1
D. Bell, c .		3 5	0. Ogle, c.,		3	3
D. Burns, c. f.,		3 5	J. O’Reilly,lb.,		1	5,
H. Benoist, r. f.,		 j	6 3	J. Rogers, r. f.,			4	1
Total, -----	27 | 52	Total, - - - - |	27 |	22
Scorer of the Star of the West, J. Sutheeland.
Scorer of the Mutual, E. S. Piixaes.
The Star of the West has Gained the
To whip the little Star of the West The Mutuals wished to do;
And so on a pleasant Monday eve Came out our jolly crow.
“ Say, Captain! Who is that Mutual That looks so stout and bold?
Why he looks as if he’d knock that ball For some of us to hold.”
“ Johnny, the ball,” young Scotty cries;
No sooner said than past: That Mutual brave struck at it wild, But that stroke was his last.
“ Who struck that ball that’s high in air?” “ Why a Mutual, of course, Do you think that one of us little boys Could knock it with such force?”-
The scorer cries, “ Teats, to the hat” But, look, how he comes in;
I think you know the reason why, The “ whitewash” we will win.
The ball is passed, Teats knocks at it, It’s almost out of sigh;
But Jimmie’s always on his guard. Cries “ whitewash,” with his might.
.And now the little boys come in ■ Amid arousing noise.
Who is that crowd that shout so loud? “ The gay Juanita boys.”
And now we’ll pass near to the end;
Our small boys take the stand,— But whois that who looks so glad, Shaking the Captain’s hand?
Bro. Florentins, don’t you see?
How proud he looks, and kind! . , And well he may, for don’t you know
His nine are ne’er behind 1 ' '
There’s little Jim, the president, Who condescends to score;
See with what pleasure he counts wp The scores we’ve made before.
Now give three cheers for the jolly nine Of eighteen sixty eight:
And now three more for Captain Jack, The boy that ne’er was “ bate.”
13ic Uniform.
4.
n.
Neginaw.
It has been asked very often by the students whether the Uniform would be made obligatory next year, or whether it would be allowed to pass out of use. Now, we answer to all doubts or questions on the subject by saying that in the next Catalogue, which is • now being printed, there will be an article by which the parents of students will be invited to adopt for their sons the Uniform of the University. However, there shall be no compulsion in the matter. The reasons why we desire to have our students wearing a uniform are numerous. No fashion can compete with the tasty uniform now worn by the Seniors, Juniors and Minims of Notre Dame. In point of cleanliness it is all that can be desired.. It costs less than any other suit. It reminds one of preserving everywhere a certain military deco-rum, and it forces the body to take such an attitude or bearing, as is natural to a trained and well-disciplined soldier.
1 «
When we advocate the introduction and use of • • ' the Uniform, we do not mean that we wish to see it ill-used, or used out of time. The Uniform ought to be worn on Sundays, on such days as national or college festivals, and whenever the student leaves the College grounds. The Uniform is ill. used when it is not worn complete, as is some- . times the case; when, for example, pants or hats, a la mode or not, are annexed to a solemnly buttoned-up jacket or tunic. The effect is grotesque, we must confess, and although seldom witnessed now;' it will entirely disappear when the Uniform comes into more general use. ‘
THE SCHOLASIC YEAR.
Friendship
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
TABLES OF HONOR.
Senior Department.—Misses C. and L. Plimpton, ■ L. Murray, M. Forrester, K. Doran, T. Lafferty, Belle Gardner, Josephine and Esther Lonergan, ’ Louisa Leoni, Belle Aeker, Anna Tarrant.
Junior Department.—Misses Julia and Maggie Walker, M. Toberty, C. North, Mary Sissons,. •
Adelaide Metzger, Mary Clark, Anna Garrity,. Agnes Longley, A. Byrns, H. Hunt. •
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Class.—Misses Florence Alspaugh, Blanche Walton, H. Brooks, Mary Tripp.
First Senior Class.—Misses K. Livingston, L. and L. Tong, Agnes Ewing, K. Cunnea, Laura Lewis, Emma Longsdorf, Eunice Crouch, G. Arrington, C. Wolf, Augusta Poole.	'
Second Senior Class.—Misses Anna Adams, A. Mulhall, K. Graham, E Smith, Virginia Brown, Anastasia Darcy, L. McManman, Emma Conan, Christina Thompson, Sarah Gleeson, M. Barnett, Teresa Stapleton, Ophelia Brady, R. Millington, E. Howard, M.' Noel, L. Renton.
Third Senior -Class.—Misses N. Ogle, Amelia Sissons?- Josephine Greishop, K. Carpenter, L. Cumn^rford, L. Bicknell, J. Murray, N. Simms, IT Conor, Rose Joslin, Nora Shurburn, Deonena
Leoni, H. Niel, Amelia Boyles.
First intermediate Cla*s.—Misses Mary Cummerford, Mary Simms, Mary Rooney, A. Wiley, B. Moriarty, Harriet Thompson, Julia and Rosa Gittings, SI. ‘Hally, Mary Oechtering, Harriet Croul, Frances Morse.
Second Intermediate Class,—Miss H. Sprochnle.
First Junior Class.—M.* O’Meara, E. Sanders, Belle B a’ber. .	'	’
Second Junior Class.—Miss Rosa Conall.	.
St.
There is a tie, a holy tie, Affliction cannot sever, ’
Originating from on high, With strength to last forever:
That tie is friendship.
There is a fire, a holy -fire,
That burns in human hearts, Inciting love for something higher, , Than the mere mortal arts:
That fire is friendship.
There is a prize, a precious prize, That faithful souls receive,
A boon sent to us from the skies,
. To there return and live:
That prize is .friendship.
There is a tear, an angel’s-tear, That falls on sorrow’s child, •
It banishes all dread and fear, And makes life’s vision mild;
. That tear is friendship’s.
But there is love," pretended love That heavenly prize to dim;
-Beware! The tear that's from above, .Falls in affliction's time;
The tear of friendship.
'	E. M.
Mary’s Academy, June 10th, 1868.
S.
M5CH. SOCTH. & K. I. BAIJLROAB.
Depot—Corner Van Buren and Sherman Sts.— Ticket Office, 56 South Clark Street.
Mail...............
Day Express........ New York Express Night Express....
f Sundays excepted.
Leave Chicago, . 44:15 a. m. . .17:00 a., m. . 45:15 p. m. . 48:30 p. m.
Ar. at Chicago. 11:45 p. m. 19:00 p. m.
9:30. a. in. f6:30 a. m.
ON mid alter Sunday, May llth.. 1868, Passenger Trains will leave South Bend Station, daily, except Sundays, as follows:	'	.
. t GWG EAST
Leave South Bend, 8 20 a.-m.	'
1015 “
8 30 p m.
12.50 a m.
Arrive at	Toledo, 4.10	p. m.
“	“	4 15	“
11	■	“	210	a. m.
“	“	6.36'	“
All four trains make close connection at Toledo with trains for the East.
SOIL'S WEST:
Leave South Bend, 5 46 a. m.
■	“	“	5 42 o. m.
' “	“	7 30 “
“	'	“	2.46	a.m.
Arrive at Chicago, 9.30 a. m.
“	9 00 p. m
“	“	11.45 p. m.
“	“.	6.30 a.m.
Makin" connections with all trains West and Northwest.
For full details, see the Company’s Posters and Time Tables at the Depot, and other public places.
^“Trains are run by Chicago Time, which is 20 minutes slower than Toledo Time.
CHAS. F HATCH, Gen’l Snp’t, Toledo.
C. P. Leland, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Toledo.
H. Beown, Agent, South Bend.	.