k
^otre Dame Scholastic.
Disoe quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume X.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 24, 1877.
Number 25.
The Prodigal.________ ..
’Tis eve, and. the torrid, king of day,
Retiring down the west,
Inwraps his fire in cloudlet spray, And sinks on glory’s breast.
The leafy trees, in whispering glee,
Evolve the cheering news,
Nor long unblest the lawns shall be By cooling evening dews.
Ye wilted plants and drooping flowers Be noonday’s power to show,
But rustling leaves and balmy bowers More love this milder glow.
And now, their daily labor done,
Returning at their ease,
Regard the toiler and his son Enjoy the fanning breeze.
And soon to meet them at the grove, Behold the happy wife ;
In each her look of pride and love Renews the joy of life.
A youth is in the twilight gray, ’ And sees the goodly sight ;
And tears roll down, as well they may,— ’Tis love’s and sorrow’s right.
Years gone, he parted friends and home, For country fought and bled,—
Is maimed and worn, and home has come These love-wrought pearls to shed.
Nor heed they now, in friendly talk,
His wary tread draw near.
Till quick he slips along the waik,
Each step in trembling fear,
And stands before the wondering three ;
And then the mother’s joy
Flies fast o’er all the years,—’tis he,
Her child, her darling boy 1	,
x V *
0 gentle stranger, draw the veil, Nor seek that evening love :	; '
Not mortal tongue may tell the tale j, '<v /
That angels tell above.	i \ ’	E.
Gerald Griffin.
Among the many distinguished Irish writers of prose fiction, Gerald Griffin holds a high rank. He is particularly noticeable for many peculiar features, much rare endowment of mind, a sober, quiet and unassuming character, as well as a moral and Christian spirit. He was born at Limerick, in the south~of Ireland, in 1803, and reared in its
immediate vicinity—a beautiful and picturesque part of the country, where everything around him having received a fair share of Nature’s charms contributed to the development of the noble faculties with which his mind was endowed. No matter where he turned his eyes, he met with something well adapted by its nature for attracting the attention of the mind and exciting his youthful imagination. We read of him roving the fields and lawns of his native place, viewing nature decked in her richest apparel or listening to the sweet song of the thrush or to the attractive and pleasing note of the blackbird; he loved too to sit by the tiny brook that wended its way to the sea, and take in, as it were, all that is truly beautiful and grand in the nature of things—all that charm the heart.
At an early age, Gerald Griffin showed signs of talent and gave evidence of a brilliant career. His first pieces, however, were of no extraordinary merit, and seemingly attracted but little attention; but this may be attributed to the subjects treated, the journals in which they appeared, and other like circumstances. We will now consider his works, the prevailing element that distinguishes them, their character, and their general cast. These three features show the man as truly and as really as if we could see into his very interior and there read the conscience.
The idea of remodelling the drama, which to him seemed wanting in many respects, appears to have been one of the first ideas entertained by Gerald Griffin. This, however, was not so easy a task as he imagined. Having considered within himself the position he should take, he set about writing some plays with his characteristic ardor and firmness. At about the age of eighteen he produced a tragedy entitled “Aguire,” with which he repaired to London two years afterwards, hoping to rise to the full zenith of fame in that great metropolis. How much he was disappointed is evident from his own acknowledgment, as well as that of his brother and his parents. In fact his circumstances became so reduced as to cause him to turn his hand to anything at which he might earn an honest living. He therefore attached himself to some of the leading journals of the city, contributing articles both in prose and verse.
Becoming by degrees better acquainted with his own mental powers by reason of his connection with authors of a high standing whose works it was his business to examine, criticise, and not unfrequently to revise, he came to the safe conclusion that he could write prose fiction that would command the favorable approbation of society and produce an effect as meritorious as either poetry or the drama. He. clearly saw and well understood the nature of the work he was about to engage in, and, abandoning forever the drama, which had so occupied his mind a little before, he recalled to his memory the lovely scenes amid which he passed his boyhood days, and here he had an ample field'of subject
386
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
matter to display all the powers of his mind to the best advantage. The mind is never so effectually at home as when occupied in chronicling the recollections of bygone days, in describing the scenery and surroundings where our youth was passed and where we engaged in the sports common to children. Gerald Griffin also recalled to memory the national, or at least the partly national characteristics of his race, and by blending these in with other recollections, such as festivals, etc., he could produce in every sense of the expression something worthy of his talent. How far he succeeded is obvious. His works, taken on the whole, may be said to be in accordance with Irish character. They present in a general manner something of a melancholy nature, which is after all the prevailing element in the works of Irish authors, no matter what may be said to the contrary.
He at first wrote some short stories for certain literary journals, and, finding them answering his purpose, he commenced in a more extended form tales which were afterwards published under the name of “ Holland-Tide.” This work was favorably received, and almost immediately obtained popularity. It was followed by “ Tales of the Munster Festivals,” written after his return to Ireland, amid the shades of Pallas Kenry, the residence of his brother. Although much superior both in style and composition to “ Holland-Tide,” it was however branded on its first appearance by the critics as something untrue to nature and contrary to the general rules of society. This judgment, passed upon so finished a work, must naturally have its effect upon his mind; he seemed, however, to disregard to a certain extent the harsh treatment he received, and after as short a delay as possible in London, whither he had gone to superintend the publication of his work, he once more bade farewell to the famous city and crossed over the sea to his own dear and cherished Pallas Kenry. Here, under favorable auspices, he worked, and published in a comparatively short space of time his most famous work, “ The Collegians,” which at once gave him a high reputation as a novelist and a high standing among English writers. The work is evidently worthy of special consideration. It clearly indicates a highly cultivated mind. No one that once commences to read it can readily leave off till he finishes it. This is owing of course to the naturalness of the plot, the grand style in which it is written and the manner in which are portrayed the stronger passions, as ambition, love, hatred, etc. There is also another feature that goes fir to complete the work; it is this: the reader from the very moment the first character is introduced is steadily borne along the unbroken stream of thought,—step by step,—one event following another in regular succession —at one time wrapt in admiration, at another deeply affected at an overwhelming result, till he reaches the page on which is recorded the final catastrophe. Speaking of this work, the Edinburgh Review says: “ ‘ The Collegians ’ is a very interesting and well-constructed tale, full of incident and passion. It is a history of the clandestine union of a young man of noble birth and fortune with a girl of far inferior rank, and of the consequences which too naturally result. The gradual decay of an attachment which was scarcely based on anything better than a sensual love—the irksomeness of concealment—the goadings of wounded pride—the suggestions of self-interest, which had been hastily neglected for an object that proves inadequate when gained—all this combining to produce first neglect, and lastly aversion, are interestingly and vividly described. An
attachment to another, superior both in mind and station, springs up at the same time, and to effect a union with her, the unhappy wife is sacrificed. It is a terrible representation of the course of crime, and it is not only forcibly but naturally displayed. The characters sometimes express their feeling with unnecessary energy, strong emotions are too long dwelt upon, and incidents rather slowly developed, but there is no common skill evinced in the conduct of the tale.”
The next important novel is entitled “ The Invasion,” historical in character, and intended to describe the laws, customs, and manners of the ancient Irish. It is a spirited and well written work, and deserves the commendation of posterity. The task of writing such a novel as “ The Invasion ” must have been a difficult one, as, in order to produce a successful result, it was necessary to have recourse to the actual historical accounts of those days before Ireland’s valleys were desolated, her churches pillaged, and her towns plundered by the repeated incursions of the Normans. These historical accounts, etc., were in some measure involved in obscurity at the time in which Griffin wrote his work, and have only since been brought to a clearer light through the efforts and indefatigable zeal of the Archaeological Society established to revive the language and literature of the country. Although “ The Invasion ” possesses many good qualities it is not so generally read as might be expected: nor does it seem to be exactly the thing for the minds of the present day. It may be said also that in a historical point of view it is a little defective, which arises from the fact just stated, that it does not contain a sufficient account of the epoch proposed for illustration, and in this respect it falls short of what is due.
His other works are “ The Rivals,” “ Tracey’s Ambition,” “Tales of the Five Senses,” “Duke of Monmouth,” “ Barber of Bantry” and “Tales of my Neighborhood,” all of which appeared in the comparatively short space of time of eight years (from 1830 to 1838). “The Rivals” and “ Tracey’s Ambition ” are tales of a lively and interesting nature. They were well received, and in a short time became very popular, although, speaking from a literary point of view, incomplete in plot and “ ill-arranged in incident.” But the general reader will find them very interesting, and suitable to while away an evening at home. The “ Tales of the Five Senses ” abound in traits of Irish character, and present a fine description of rural scenery and an excellent rendering of social life. They are generally not considered equal to his “ Munster Festivals.” but they have their good qualities, as has already been intimated. The “ Duke of Monmouth ” is founded on historical incidents. It is intended to describe the situation of the peasantry of the west of England at the time of the rebellion raised by the Duke of Monmouth, who, being urged by Sutherland and the Prince of Orange, aimed at seizing the crown and mounting the thrcne, to which the Duke of York, the lawful heir, and brother of Charles H, had succeeded under the title of James H. This work is worthy of special commendation. As regards narrative it is almost faultless. It is also written in a pleasing and elegant style, and no one can help but recognize the soundness of judgment and clear perception displayed in portraying the manners, etc., of the middle class of English society during this period.
The only one of his dramas that remains to us is entitled “Grisippus.” It was performed at Drury Lane Theatre after the author’s death with marked success. It is certain

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
387
that had he pursued his course of writing for the stage he would in course of time elicit from all concerned in this department of literature not only their commendation but-also their acknowledgment as an accomplished dramatist, and if he would not have been a Shakspeare or a Sheridan it is most certain that he would have succeeded in achieving a brilliant reputation.
He has also written several poetical pieces abounding in passages remarkable for beauty of delineation; they are chaste, pleasing and agreeable in character, and indicative ofgreat power of imagery. These last qualities seem forthe most part to be common to all his works. There is something in them so simple and at the same time so difficult to analyze that the reader is sometimes really at a loss to find in his works nothing of what he expected. For even when it is difficult to avoid certain expressions on account of the nature of the incidents that are narrated, he seems as it were to glide gently by, and come out on the other side, like the moon from under a cloud, all radiant and beautiful as before. His famous ballad entitled ‘’Young Matt Hyland” is known throughout the length and breadth of Ireland, although the original has been destroyed and nothing except what may called a fragment remains; but enough has been preserved to show what the original was before it was consigned to the flames at the hands of its author. For it is a well known fact that before he took leave of his relatives and friends on going to enter the novitiate of the Christian Brothers he caused some manuscripts that he did not exactly approve of to be destroyed, and among these was the ballad just mentioned.
It is now acknowledged that Gerald Griffin lays claim to the recognition of posterity as a writer of many distinguished qualities, and as a man of eminent virtue and private worth, which is after all his highest commendation. Notwithstanding his success and reputation as a writer, he soon grew weary of the world and its enjoyments, and sought repose from its turmoils and difficulties by throwing aside his secular garb and putting on that of an humble Christian Brother. His soul sighed to be separated from the cares of the world in order to commune with God in solitude and silence, and longed to be at rest; that rest, that peace of mind, that perfect happiness can never be had in this world, and can only be looked for beyond the grave. Hence the desire of his soul to unite itself to God, its last End, with whom it hoped to live forever in heaven. Accordingly, having made all previous arrangements, he left those that were near and dear to him and wended his way to the great metropolis of Ireland to spend the remainder of his days in silence and retreat, in mortification and self-denial. What a change 1 The great novelist lays aside his worldly honors, and in religion gives his poetical soul entirely to the service of God, being then in the thirty-fifth year of his age. He died on the 12th of June, 1840, in the second year of his novitiate, with all the marks of a truly devout and Christian soul.	R.
• Opium.
Who has not read, or at least heard of, the “ Confessions of the English Opium-Eater” ? or of the evil effects wrought by opium on the mind of Coleridge? When hearing of these, and many other cases, one would naturally wish for a knowledge of a drug which could enslave and render so susceptible to its temptations such mighty minds. The white poppy, from which opium is procured, has been
known and used from the earliest periods as a soother of pain, and as a giver of sleep. The name of poppy comes from its first use, it being mixed with the food of young children to ease pain and secure sleep. Its principal use in European countries is as a medicine, while in the East it is used as a narcotic. In some Persian cities a decoction of poppies, called Tcohemaar, is sold, and its use is attended by the usual effects of opium-eating or smoking.
But the principal manner of using this narcotic is by the dried juice of the poppy-head. The juice is called by the Arabians, afioun, by the Persians, afioum, and by the English opium. It is procured by making incisions in the seed-pt>ns of the poppy, when nearly ripe; allowing the milky juice to flow, and remain on the pods for about twenty-four hours, and then scraping it off. The general characteristics of opium are a soft, unctuous feeling, reddish or blackish brown color, waxy lustre, strong disagreeable odor, and a bitter, nauseous taste, which reniains long in the mouth. The poppy is chiefly grown and the opium collected in Asiatic Turkey, in India, and in Persia. Opium -coming from Smyrna is most highly valued in the European markets, while the Indian opium is generally used in. Eastern countries.
As a narcotic, opium is used in three ways. It is swallowed, in the form of pills; or in that of fluid tinctures, sucli as laudanum; or it is smoked in small pipes. The first manner is the custom in Turkey and Persia; the second in Christian nations; and the third in China and the islands of the Indian archipelago. The Chinese form the opium into small pillets, one of which they place in a tiny pipe, generally made of silver, inhale a few pulls at a time, and return the smoke through the nostrils and ears, continuing this until the necessary dose is taken. In Borneo, Java, and Sumatra, the drug is mixed with tobacco and betel, and then used. No matter in which of the three above mentioned ways opium is used, the effects are the same. When taken in moderate doses, it exhilarates the mind, causes the ideas to flow more quickly, and creates a pleasurable and comfortable feeling throughout the whole body. It possesses a wonderful power of sustaining the strength, and of enabling men to undergo fatigue and continued exertion under which they would otherwise sink. The Theriakis or Turkish opium-eaters, take at one sitting as many as one hundred and twenty grains, and in their description of the feelings say that it produces the summit of happiness. The effects, while under the influence of the drug, are described by all as most exhilarating and pleasant, but the after effects are a source of misery. The exciting influence of the drug is followed by a corresponding depression. The general vigor and muscular energy are both lessened. A desire for repose ensues, and a tendency to sleep. The sufferer becomes parched, and his thirst is greatly increased. When large doses are taken, all the above noted effects are hastened and heightened, and if enough has been taken, death ensues. Though these effects are modified by the constitution of the individual, the length of time he has been used to it, and the circumstances in which he may be placed, yet the general and final effects on all persons and in all circumstances are most melancholy and degrading. And “ when the baneful habit has become once confirmed, it is almost impossible to break it off,” and it nearly always ends in bringing its victim to an early grave. Its seductive power is very great, and its influence extends not only over the naturally indolent and slothful Asiatic, but also over the sturdy and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
energetic European, of which we have two noted examples in the cases of Coleridge and De Quincey. Reading the experience of these two men, what lessons should we not draw from it of the frailty of even the strongest minds when exposed to temptation!
With regard to the quantity of opium used Sy the different nations, no approximate idea can be formed. The East India Company formerly gathered and sold about six and a half millions of pounds yearly. Three millions of pounds are yearly exported from India, and sold in China. The greatest part of the opium used is used in Eastern nations, but in European countries the sale is not small. In England it is used to a certain extent amongst the lower classes as a narcotic, but the principal manner of using it is to quiet and put to rest young children, and for this purpose it is sold and used under the shapes of various cordials.
The effects of opium are heightened or lessened by the influence of race and constitution. While its effects on the European eater is confined to the exhilaration of mind and body, it exercises a peculiarly exciting influence on the Javanese, the Malays, and the negro tribes. Lord Macartney says that “the Javanese under an extraordinary dose of opium become frantic as well as desperate. They acquire an artificial courage; and, when suffering from misfortune and disappointment, they not only stab the objects of their hate, but sally forth to attack in like manner every person they meet, till self-preservation renders it necessary to destroy them. They shout, as they run, ‘Amok, amok,’ which means ‘Kill, kill,’ and hence the phrase running a-muck.’’ As the effects of opium differ in different nations, so they differ in individuals, owing to their diverse constitutions.
When our knowledge of opium and its use is considered, we may sum it up in the following four points. That to those who have rendered themselves slaves to the use of opium, most melancholy and destroying effects are produced in their body and soul. That it is certainly true that some can use it in moderately small quantities for years without becoming addicted to it, or being sensibly affected by it. That of all indulgences it is the most seductive, and consequently the one most to be avoided. The infatuation for it sometimes reaches such a point that the certainty of death, and all the fearful infirmities which precede a death by it, are overlooked and have no influence on the victim. Lastly, that to give up the indulgence when once it is a delightproduces tortures of mind and body such as have made cowards of the most resolute and strong-minded men, and that if the strong fall into such a snare, we who are weak should never tempt it.	J. A. B.
Scientific Theories and the Catholic Church.
Since the time of the Reformation, and even at the present day, it has been and is the favorite argument of those fettered with the trammels of prejudice—the enemies of the Catholic Church—that the Church has always been hostile to science, and that it has been her all-engrossing care to keep the world in darkness and ignorance. But the Catholic Church has, on the contrary, ever been the most munificent patron of the Arts and Sciences, and to her is the world indebted for a great part of the discoveries of modern science. She has not only preserved the rare works of art and science, but her children in their antiqarian researches have brought forth, the ancient manuscripts from the obscurity in which time and neglect had buried them.
The Roman Pontiffs, on their part, have always been the most beneficent patrons of Science, and have ever evinced a most generous zeal for the promotion of knowledge. In face of these facts, these pretended friends of science in modern times will reiterate and endeavor to perpetuate their favorite falsehood. Chateaubriand, with that characteristic beauty of which his pages are so prolific, says: “ Christian Rome might be considered as a capacious harbor in which all the wrecks of the arts were collected and preserved. Constantinople falls under the Turkish yoke, and the Church immediately opens a thousand honorable retreats to the illustrious fugitives of Athens and Byzantium. Cardinals expend their fortunes in researches among the ruins of Greece and in the purchase of manuscripts. So glorious did the age of Leo X appear to the learned Barthelemi, that at first he preferred it to the age of Pericles for the subject of his great work.” They who say that the Catholic Church is an enemy of science forget that for the sublime writings of Homer and of many of the pagan writers they are indebted to the children of her whom they malign.
The most conservative spirit has ever manifested itself in all the orders of the Church. What nation, what people, what sect has constantly defended and preserved science for a space of eighteen hundred years with such a noble generosity as she has exhibited for the development of science and the advancement of learning ?
But to the question whether the Church is inimical to scientific theories or not, after a mature examination, conducted with all the scrutiny impartial critics can command, the inevitable and constant conclusion is that she is not only not hostile to the theories of true science, but, on the contrary, that she has always cherished them with a noble ardor. This is not a mere assertion, founded on imaginary premises. Search history, from the time her Divine Founder established her on an immovable rock, up to the present day: mark the innumerable repositories of science which she has formed in those great universities which illuminated with the blessed torch of Religion and Science the paths where barbarism and ignorance had held sway before, and you will have incontestible proofs of her fostering care of the sciences.
There is one case which has always been a subject upon which the prejudiced have wasted their efforts to show to the world that the Catholic Church was diametrically opposed to a theory which forms the basis of modern astronomy. The case in point is this, that the Church opposed the theory of Galileo through a spirit of (pretended) hostility to science. Galileo was arraigned before the tribunals of Rome not as an astronomer, but as a bad theologian. He was censured not for declaring that the earth revolved around the sun, but for obstinately declaring that his opinion was contained in the Bible, and pretending that the ecclesiastical authorities should publish a decision to this effect. Guiccardini and the Marquis of Nicoli, both disciples of Galileo, attest that such are the facts, and they are also so stated in the letters of the distinguished astronomer himself. Tycho Brahe at this time still denied the motion of the earth round the sun, and would not a higher degree of proficiency in the science of astronomy naturally be expected in Tycho Brahe than in an obscure Roman priest—Copernicus? In corroboration of the fact that the Church was not hostile to this theory when divested of the religious character which Galileo pretended belonged to it, it is well known that it was taught in the universities. Cardinal Cuza, who
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	389
was eminently distinguished for his learning and piety, and who died in 1454, taught without censure the same astronomical system which afterwards formed the pretended charge against Galileo,—a fact which corroborates the above mentioned assertion that the question in Galileo’s case was of a purely theological nature. It is entirely unnecessary to add more instances to show that the Catholic Church has been the faithful guardian of true science." It is useless to show the glaring falsity of the Darwinian theory, which is so repugnant to Catholicity and even to the spirit of Christianity in general. The Catholic Church has been the protector of true science; for her schools, her monasteries and universities have been the bulwarks of science,— where the votaries of science, despite their religious convictions, received a friendly welcome. She is the magnanimous patron of true science, and the effusions of her impassioned genius are the brightest gems in the cabinet of science.
L. M. P.
The Oddities of Musicians.
Lully labored like a feeble amateur. He sat down at the piano with his snuff-box; he sang and played till, by means of trying here and there, up and down, he fancied he discovered the most suitable melody. The discovery he then communicated to some subordinate, who took down the direction, and that was the end of it. Sarti required a large dark room, even at night but feebly lit up; his musical ideas came to him only in the stillness of the night. Of Spontini, too, we somewhere read that he was able to compose only in the dark. Climarosa wanted noise about him ; he liked best to work in merry company. Saleria, to excite his fancy, strolled about in the most frequented streets, eating bon-bous, with lead-pencil and paper in hand, to be ready when the occasion offered. Paer composed, chatted, scolded, disputed, all at once. Sacchini felt himself incapable of getting a melody unless he was with his lady-love and had his little kittens about him. Alexis Gesca, if one may lay faith to eye-witnesses, resorted to a similar means— the bottle served him instead of a lady-love and for kittens he tried to get a little dog. Pislello remained in bed when he intended composing—a cheap practical means, as trustworthy contemporaries have assured us; it saves fuel, clothing, etc. Zingarelli, before sitting down at the piano to compose, read a few pages of a Latin poet; then, however, he worked so easily that he was able to write in four hours—four hours we say—a whole act of “ Romeo and Juliet.” When Fattier Haydn couldn’t get on, he would take his rosary and say a few Aves, and, generally, inspiration returned. In another place we read—probably of later years—Haydn sat quietly down in a chair, but he must have upon his finger the ring that Frederick the Great had once given him. In London, however, this expedient seems to have proved unavailing, for we have a report that once the master had no inspiration left at all; for two weeks he vainly tortured himself to get an appropriate continuation to the first eight bars of an “ andante.” It is well known that it has been thought some connection existed between Mozart’s fondness for billiards and tenpins and his musical disposition. Beethoven went out into the open air, into the magnificence and solitude of nature. Mehal was a lover of flowers, and liked to sojourn in pretty gardens. Mendelssohn, it is said, always had bouquets at his desk. Halevey always required the sound of boiling water to become “ disposed.” Auber, a good rider, mounted
his horse, in order to gain the romantic country, where the artist finds everything he needs; in after years, when the celebrated composer was an old, very old gentleman, he probably composed his operas on ‘foot. Francois Hunten felt most inspired for composition in autumn. He walked' up and down his room catching flies—no very difficult task at that season of the year—and thus were produced more than two hundred compositions, the greater part of which may be found on every piano.—Exchange.
The Bridge of Sighs.
The Bridge of Sighs connects the palace with the public prison. The latter was erected in 1589, and the bridge in 1591. A single arch supports the structure, which connects the second story of the palace with the second story of the prison. It is simply a corridor divided by a partition into two narrow halls, through one of which political prisoners were conducted to imprisonment, while the common criminals passed through the other. Externally the Bridge of Sighs has no particular architectural merit. It has acquired a gloomy notoriety from its name, and from the prevailing impression that the man who traversed it from the palace to he dungeon never returned. This is in part romance, but or the significant reason that this palace, unrivalled in its elegance, contained gloomier dungeons within its glittering walls than the other prison could parallel. The dungeons for political and criminal prisoners awaiting execution— for this distinction is represented in the very architecture of the palace—were quite near the entrance to the Bridge of Sighs. There are two tiers of these dungeons, one above the other, consisting of ten each, with a floor between, constructed of heavy stone m isonry. Those for criminals were above, and those for political offenders were below. They are arranged in blocks, being end to end. A narrow, unlighted hall passesaround three sides, the dungeons being en.-tered through a low arched opening from the two halls opposite each other. After passing through this opening, with a torch to light the chamber, the visitor finds himself in a room enclosed by massive stone walls, twelve feet long, eight feet wide, and eight or nine feet high, with an arched ceiling. The floors are of cement, hardened into stone, and bare of all furniture save a stone pillow set in the floor. Every dungeon repeats the cool, inhuman mockery of a pretended regard for the necessities of the prisoners. A common paving-stone, two feet long, fifteen inches above the floor, was the pillow offered by the state, in the dark days of the Venetian aristocracy, to political as well as criminal offenders. Two Doges, at least—Marino Faliero, in his eightieth year, and Antonio Foscari—were brought to the bitter experience both of the dungeon and of the stone pillow. At the side of the door there is a small round opening through the wall for the introduction of food. The only light was through this opening, and from a small exterior window at the end of another short and narrow hall, which intersected those around the dungeons at one angle. The darkness was substantially total. In this short hall the prisoners were executed at midnight—the political by beheading, and the criminal by strangulation. On the left, and in front of the Bridge of Sighs, is the water portal of the palace. A double doorway, each barred with bronze doors, gives admission to a broad hall which passes through to the palace court. It was at this gate that the Doge embarked in the Bucentaur, when he went forth in state to the annual ceremony of wedding, with a ring, the Adriatic.
i

390
THE tfOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Art, Music and Literature.
—It is said that Mr. Charles Mathews, the comedian, is writing his autobiography.
—A piece of Gobelins tapestry has just been sold in Paris for the fabulous sum of §20,000.
—Mr. F. P. Dewees, a lawyer, of Pennsylvania, has written “ The History of the Molly Maguires.”
—Gotz’s unfinished opera is to be completed by Herr Frank, of Mannheim, and revised by Herr Brahms.
—A statue is to be erected at Lons-le-Saulnier, in France, to Rouget de Lisle, the author and composer of the “ Marseillaise.”
—Herr Strauss’ buffo-opera, “ Prince Methusalem,” has met with a cordial reception in Vienna, and will probably become popular.
—The Publishers' Circular, of London, gives the total number of uew books published in Great Britain in 1876 at 4,888 against 4,854 in 1875.
—In Rossi’s opera, “Biorn” (Macbeth), recently produced in London, a curious feature is the introduction of Scotch tunes, sung by Norwegians.
—“Eminent Jews of the Time” is the title of a forthcoming series of biographical sketches, bjr Mr. Adolphus Rosenburgh, confined to Anglo-Jewish characters.
—Thenew opera, “Cinq-Mars,” which M. Gounod is now writing, is in four acts and eight tableaux, the first being a ball scene at Blois, and the second a representation of the siege of Perpignan.
—The Sarsfield Memorial Committee of Dublin have resolved to erect a bronze statue in memory of the gallant Irish soldier. It will cost £1,200, and will be designed and erected entirely by Irishmen.
—Mr. Tupper’s two daughters are said to possess poetical talent. He offered a Boston publishing house the privilege of bringing out the poems of one of them, Margaret Ellinora, which in his opinion, it is asserted, rank above Tennyson’s. The offer was not accepted.
—The four hundredth anniversary of the introduction of printing into England by Caxton will be celebrated by an exhibition at Stationers’ Hall, London, under the patronage of Earls Spencer, Russell, Aberdeen, etc., who will loan for the occasion many precious and rare specimens of typography.
—A remarkable painting, “The Dying Saviour,” has been placed on exhibition in Leipsic by the artist, Prof. Emil Pischan. A peculiar feature of the work is that near by the eyes seem closed, as required by the conditions of the scene, but that at some distance they appear open and turned to heaven.
—The library of the Conservatoire de Musique in Paris has just made the important purchase of 200 full orchestral partitions of Italian composers. This is a most valuable acquisition, as in Italy only a limited number of copies are published. Among twenty-two of Rossini’s works are some written by the great master in his early youth. There are seventeen operas of Donizetti, and the other principal works are by Bellini, Farinelli, Pacini, Ricci, and one by Cherubini.
—A new and wonderful tenor, it is said, has just been discovered by a well-known professor of music in Paris in the person of a stone-carver employed by an eminent French sculptor. His voice is said to be a true and powerful tenor of extraordinary range and quality, and his fortunate discoverer intends to introduce him shortly to M. Halanzier. He will form a pendant to Manowry, the sweetvoiced baritone, who was originally a journeyman dyer and was heard singing over his vats by a professor of the Conservatoire.
—Herr von Suppe, the composer of “Fatinitza ’’and various similar works—extremely popular in Austria and Germany—is not, as people generally suppose, a native of Vienna. He was born at Cremona, in Italy. Before adopting the musical profession, he studied first philosphy, and then jurisprudence, at Bologna, in order to qualify himself for a post in the public civil service, but the love of music predominated, and brought him to the Austrian capi
tal, where he has for years officiated as conductor at the Karl theatre.
—The Catholic Society of Bergamo has, according to the Osservatore Cattolico, offered the Sovereign Pontiff a precious MS. of Saint Thomas Aquinas. This MS. was for a long time in St. Bartholemew’s Church, formerly the property of the Dominican Fathers. At the epoch of the suppression of the convents under the first Napoleon the MS. disappeared; but after several vicissitudes, having been miraculously preserved from the flames, dust and the gnawing teeth of rats, it came into the possession of the Fantoni family. Mr. Fantoni sold it for 10,000 francs (about §2,000) to the generous donors. '
—A very large painting, representing Pius IX, with all the Cardinals and chief officers of the Vatican, is about to be executed under the auspices of Mr. John Eastman, of Manchester, Eng., and his nephew, Mr. George Cooper These gentlemen are in Rome taking photographic likenesses of the Holy Father, the Cardinals, the Major-domo, and Master of the Chamber, Monsignors Howard and Stonor, and other ecclesiastics attached to the Vatican. They will visit Paris, Vienna, New York, Dublin, and other places to take the likenesses of living Cardinals, and from these photographs an immense picture is to be painted by Mr. Crozier Harrison. The expense will amount to many thousand pounds. While in Rome, Messrs. Eastman and Cooper have taken photographs of the paintings in San Clemente, and of seme of the portraits in the English College. They have also photographed the rector and students of the English College, and of the American and other colleges in Rome. They have obtained also the autographs of the Pope, the Cardinals, and many distinguished persons. They have photographed Sir A. Paget and the officials of the British Embassy in Rome.
—The public enthusiasm in Glasgow over the unveiling of a bronze statue of Robert Burns, on January 25th, was a sign that the poet’s songs are as popular north of the Tweed to-day as they ever were. The monument was erected principally by workmen in the west of Scotland, and subscriptions were limited to a shilling, so that 40,000 Scotchmen were enabled to honor the poet’s memory. There were 100 bands in the procession, and all of them played “There was a lad was born in Kyle.” The carters wore quaint and picturesque broad Kilmarnock bonnets, and eagle’s plumes and broad, bright sashes. A lorrie, embowered with evergreens and accommodating a band, preceded a second vehicle, which had been converted into a representation of a thatched roadside public house, evidently intended to represent the resort where Tam O’Shanter and Souter Johnny where wont to get “ unco’ fou’ and awfu’ happy.” Here the landlord in short hose and scarlet nightcap was personated by a boisterous blade, who, too truly exhibited to his admiring friends that “ aye the ale was growing better.” Tam O’Shanter and Souter Johnny were represented by a pair of ancient cronies, while the landlord was ever ready to “ laugh a ready chorus.” When the bust was unveiled there were 60,000 spectators in St. George Square. Lord Houghton presided over the ceremonies, and made an excellent speech.
—A correspondent of the Chicago Times says:—Cincinnati four years ago gave a great musical festival, which was the talk of the country at the time. Every newspaper of consequence had special reports, and all the rest were burdened with the unusual technicalities of the works of Beethoven, Wagner, and Liszt, by the agency of the Associated Press. Cincinnati read all these accounts and found herself famous. True, her portion of the entertainment was made up of the great chorus, for the leader, the greater portion of the orchestra, and all the soloists were imported from the East. But as the chorus was the great sine qua non of the festival, second only to the audience, and as the latter was also abundant, Cincinnati called herself the musical centre of the United States. Certain critics who attended the festival acknowledged the claim, and began to show why it was not possible for other American cities to have festivals. It was discovered by them that Cincinnati has a peculiarity in its population not found in other cities. That it is made up of many old families of wealth, culture, and taste, whose sons and daughters have time and inclination to cultivate the gift of song. Nowhere else is to be found such a per
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	391
manent basis for an intellectual chorus, and nowhere else could there be found a cultivated taste to appreciate classical music. Since that time the city has been put on its good behavior asa musical city. It has deserved much. An orchestra has been maintained which has been able to give worthy interpretation of some of the best music, and which has been of incalcuable benefit in the way of elevating the standard of music. A pianist of national fame has been given to the country, Miss Julia Rive. A vocalist who has been heard in several cities, Miss Emma Cranch, has also added to the fame of Cincinnati. Another Cincinnati vocalist, Miss Josie Jones (Miss Yorke), is winning golden opinions in England as the member of an opera troupe.
Books and Periodicals.
the first. “ Be Vere’s ‘ Mary Tudor ’ ” is an appreciative review of a noble and strangely neglected drama. “A Bird’s-Eye View of Toledo ’’ must have been written by a very wise as well as witty old bird. It is one of those brilliant semi-historical sketches of famous cities, as they were long ago and as they are to-day, of which the Catholic World has given us so many, and all excellent. “ Some Quaint Old Cities ” is another dip into the pleasant past, showing that the north no less than the south of Europe is indebted to Catholic days and Catholic minds for much of their beauty and historic memories. “ The Great Strike at Er-rickaale” is a strong though sad story, written with strange power. “ Modern Melodists ’’ discusses Schumann chiefly. Poetry is well represented in “ Longings ” and “A March Pilgrimage.” The present number ends the twelfth volume of this magazine, which seems to grow stronger and brighter with every year of its existence.
—We have received the third number of Our Young Folks' Magazins and find it an. elegantly printed and finely illustrated magazine for young people. Though edited by a priest, it is not a religious journal; indeed one finds nothing in it of a religious character. Whether it will accomplish more good in being non-sectarian is a question which we suppose the editors have carefully considered, and though for our part we think it would be better were it a distinctively Catholic magazine for young Catholics, yet we greet this new candidate for public patronage with good wishes inasmuch as in it there will be nothing offensive to Catholic ears. The stories, sketches, poems, etc., are all written with care, and there are indications on every page that a skilful hand is directing the enterprise. It is published by Thos. Scully, Box 3090, Boston, Mass. The subscription price is §1.60 per year.	’
—The February number of Brainards' Musical World contains an unusually fine selection of music, besides the usual large amount of interesting and instructive musical reading. With the exception of “ The Village Organist,” a very poor story, all the reading matter is good. In a musical Journal, no article should be admitted which gives of-fench to people of any denomination. However, the excellent letters of Carl Merz and the editorials atone for the story. Among the musical contents of this number is a beautiful quartet, entitled “He’s Gone.” We learn that Messrs. S. Brainard’s Sons have in press, and will shortly issue “ The Songs of P. P. Bliss," in book form, embracing all of the best songs, of this writer. Full particulars will be foundin the Musical World, which is furnished at only §1.50 per year, or 15 cents for single copies. Address S. Brainard’s Sons’ Publishers, Cleveland, Ohio.
—The Catholic World pursues its policy of giving prominence to some subject of immediate and general interest, and treating it in a manner that commands attention. Of all powers in the world to-day, Russia is one of the most interesting, one destined to affect in a large degree the future of the world, yet one of the least known. The article entitled “The Russian Chancellor’’ will help greatly to lift the veil that enshrouds this mighty Empire. With singular skill, clearness, and force, the writer has massed together the chief events which have made Russian history in the past and in the present. The present attitute and policy of Russia he ascribes chiefly to Prince Gortchakoff, the aged Chancellor, under whose guidance Russia has more than retrieved the losses she sustained in the Crimean war. Most interesting, too, is his view of the relations between Russia and Rome in the past, their probable relations in the future, and the political duel between the two Chancellors—Bismarck and Gortchakoff. Striking and bold, from the Catholic standpoint, is the manner in which the possible success of Russia in the East is regarded. The Catholic World takes a much more hopeful view of such an issue than is generally ascribed to Catholic writers. “ English Rule in Ireland ” is another powerful article, wherein history is splendidly condensed to elucidate principles. A future paper on the same subject is promised and will be looked for with attention, as giving the brighter dawn of one of the darkest nights in history. “The Similarities between Science and Religion” deals in a livelier manner than is customary with the literature of atoms. “ Up the Nile ” is a second paper, bright, pleasant, and chatty like
—Doctor Adam Clark, of Philadelphia, has worked out the following calculations: “ Even’ thistle bears on an average every year 80 heads, each of which in round numbers contains 300 grains of seed. It follows from this that a single thistle will furnish in the first year seed for 2,400; this first thistle-harvest would give the following year ' seed for 576,000.000 thistles; the second harvest would bring forth 13,824,000,000,000 thistles; the fourth, 331,776,000,000,000,000, etc.; so the whole posterity of one thistle would cover in five years not only the surface of our earth, but also that of the moon and all the planets. The learned gentleman adds the reflection that although all the seeds produced from thistles do not grow up, many being destroyed in various ways, eaten by birds, etc., it might happen in the course of time thistles would grow so exuberantly that the earth would become a terrestrial paradise for asses.
—Life is a collection of little things. Happiness is not a huge package of merchandise that can be purchased in bulk at wholesale; it is rather a mosaic formed of little	'
gems, each insignificant by itself alone; but grouped, com-	;
bined, it becomes attractive and satisfying. A pleasant smile, a kindly greeting, a considerate deed, an unselfish act, all trifles in themselves, yet aggregate a sum of human happiness and tranquillity that a united family circle would not exchange for a millionaire’s wealth and princes’ honors	>
where the warm heart and gentle hand are absent. Little	;
habits creep up apace, until from an occasional indulgence grows up a ruling power; little expenses scarcely noticed	. •
in the first instance, soon consume an alarming total;	“
little matters unnoticed, disregarded and uncared for,	’
finally confront us with impassible barriers of accumulated	,
and neglected duties and responsibilities. In these latter	J
days of enforced economy, when so many of the brightest visions have faded away into grim reality, it behooves us	\
to award to little things the earnest attention which their importance demands, remembering always that real hap-
piness is the aggregate of many little things.—Sdected.	]
—Relative to Cardinal Antoneli, there appears to be a	i
pleasure manife sted in stating from what a modest family	•
he sprang. What does this prove? Have not the majority of celebrated men risen from the most humble positions in	I
the social scale to reach the most elevated ? Demosthenes	;
was the son of a blacksmith; Virgil of a baker; Horace of a	I
freedman; Theophrastesof a salesman; Amyotof a currier;	1
La Moth of a hatter; J.B. Rousseau of a shoemaker; Moliere	;
of an upholsterer; Quinant of a working baker; Flechier of a	i
tallow-chandler; Rollin of a cutler; Massillon of a tanner;	,j
Dupont and Beaumarchais of watchmakers. Was not	j
Homer a mendicant? Francis Arago had a farmer for his	;
father; Canova was attached to the service of the house of Falieri; Columbus was the son of a wool-carder; Cook of a	i:
peasant; Copernicus of a baker. D'Alembert, a foundling,	1
was reared by a draper; and Franklin and Fulton started from much more miserable positions in life. Jacquaid was	:i
the offspring of a weaver; Herschel was a street musician ;	H
Monge was the son of a hay-dealer; Bernard Pallissy and	g
Laplace were the children of peasants; and Volta was	i
brought up on charity. Sixtus V. was a herder of pigs, and
Colbert was the son of a cloth-merchant.	[j
392
THE N'OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
jWotre Dame, February34, 1877.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum. Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana
The Thespians.
There is no day during the scholastic year to which students look forward with brighter anticipations of joy than the 22d of this month, the anniversary of the birth of Washington. This day is a red-letter day at Notre Dame. It is to us what the 4th of July is to the remaining portion of our fellow-citizens, and we believe that in no part of the United States is the memory of the sage of Mount Vernon honored with the sincere homage of more grateful hearts. It seems as though with the return of his natal day the fires of patriotism are rekindled in the hearts of all here, and bum with a brighter glow. We never tire of hearing recounted the memorable words and patriotic deeds of Washington; and though these may be related with much of the ornament of youthful rhetoric, yet we are willing to hear them so rehearsed. There is something in the earnest words of a young man when, inspired with feelings of patriotism, he recounts his country’s glory, that, though we feel much pruning might be done by a hand guided by mature thought, we pardon the words and think only of the thought which animates them.
This year Notre Dame was not backward in celebrating the day, though, because of an immemorial custom, the annual Entertainment was given on the evening of the 21st. The Thespians, as is their right, gave the Entertainment; and this fact, together with the knowledge that'Notre Dame never allows the day to pass without an excellent Entertainment, brought a large number of people from Niles, South Bend, Laporte, Mishawaka, Elkhart, and other cities in the neighborhood, to witness the exercises. And not only from these cities did the visitors comj; we saw many familiar faces from Chicago, while Cleveland and other cities were not without representation. The evening was a beautiful one; and, taking advantage of the moonlight, people came in such crowds that Washington Hall began to fill long before the hour announced for the Enter
tainment to begin; and by seven o’clock there was no longer sitting-room.
The Entertainment was begun by the Band, after which the Orchestra gave us the dashing “ Leichte CavaLerie" of Suppe in a manner that did them credit. We then were treated to a song by the Choral Union, upon the conclusion of which Mr. William T. Ball, of Chicago, the orator of the evening, stepped upon the stage and began his address, which was in all respects worthy of the young gentleman, the audience, and the day. His oration was entitled “ Washington and America.” Beginning with a eulogy of Washington, he touched upon the Revolutionary War and the state of the country a century ago, comparing it with its present condition. Speaking of the “Father of our Country,” he characterized his name as one of the few great ones which bear no stain. He was loyal to his king so long as the king was entitled to the loyalty of his subjects, but when a dearer and holier claim was made upon his affections he cast aside all other considerations and espoused his country’s cause. Of all his brilliant qualities we most admire his disinterested patriotism. His fame and that of his country will be handed down together to posterity; they are one and inseparable; and in after times people will speak, as it were of one, of Washington and America—Patriotism and Freedom.
The prologue to the second part of the Entertainment was given by Mr. John G. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, who delivered it in a neat and graceful manner. It was as follows:
“ When bad men are murdered, what shall be our thought ? When good men kill, what reasoning shall be sought ?
A great, good-natured despot meets his end, And the tyrant falls by the treacherous hand of a friend; In such a case, what shall the Christian do ?
Condemn the tyrant—condemn his murderer too.
Sevenfold vengeance unto Cain of old, To his murderer seventy times sevenfold. Caesar slays his country, himself is slain,— And his slayers suffer, as suffered the slayer of Cain. No wrong can right the wrong, for right is one;
And Freedom’s temple struck by some rude son, False stone can never mend the broken arch,— Philippi shall avenge the Ides of March I
This is the lesson that the poet tells, On this great truth his mighty genius dwells ;
Do not the smallest wrong to save the greatest right:
Thus will the poet teach, if we but hear to-night.”
The principal play of the evening was “Julius Caesar,” arranged so as to allow it to be played by males alone. “ Caesar” is a difficult play for professionals, and doubly so for amateurs. In it there is no exciting plot to rivet the attention of the audience. It is a chronicle of facts which occurred in Roman history, and requires good acting in all the parts to keep up interest in it. Those models of forensic eloquence put into the mouths of Brutus and An-tony, unless well rendered, unless entered into with the spirit in which we must suppose them to have been delivered, lose all the charm with which Shakespeare has invested them. Hence it is that the Thespians risked much in appearing on the boards to render this great drama. They staked an honorable reputation gained through many long years by their Society in running the risk of failure. But they did not fail. They did not personate the characters as professionals would have done; there was now and then during the play some rather tame acting; there was
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.'	393
an occasional blunder; and at times, some awkwardness displayed, but in the main the rendition was good, indeed very good—better than any one had reason to expect. The principal parts were well cast, and the actors in them, by their excellent acting, more than atoned for the awkwardness or unskilfulness shown occasionally by others. And after all it is not an uncommon sight to see great stars in the professional world much more poorly supported than were the amateur stars in Washington Hall on the night of the 21st.
The role of “ Julius Caesar” was taken by Mr. Eugene F. Arnold, of Washington, D. 0., with much truth and dignity. Mr. Carl Otto, of Havannah, Ill., assumed the role of “ Mark Antony” with great life and spirit, bringing out the fine points with a success which was deserving the painstaking care he bestowed upon the part. The character of “ Brutus ” was assumed by Mr. William T. Ball, of Chicago, who by his careful study of the part was enabled to personate “ the noblest Roman of them all ” with a truthfulness and expression worthy of all praise. The “ Cassius ” of Mr. Thos. C. Logan, of Leavenworth, Kansas, was a superb piece of acting, giving to the part, as he did, great energy and study. He almost persuaded us that we were witnessing the efforts, not of an amateur but rather those of an able professional. August K. Schmidt, of Chicago, took the part of “ Decius” in a lively and graceful style. Mr. Frank S. Hastings, of Leavenworth, Kansas, took the rolS of “ Octavius ” and played it to the satisfaction of all, as did Mr. Logan D. Murphy the role of “ Casca.” The other characters were as follows: “ Soothsayer, Ambrose J. Hertzog; “ Metellus,” William P. Breen; “ Pompillius Lenas,” George J. Gross; “Titinius,” Nathan J. Mooney; “Trebonius,” James J. Quinn; “Cinna,”Luke Evers; “Lucius,” Joseph P. McHugh; “ Pi udarus,” Henry C. Cassidy; “ Servius,” Frank Maas; “Clitus,” Patrick J. Cooney; “Cicero,” John G. Ewing; “ Artemidorus,” Henry McGuire; “Dardanius,” J. D- McIntyre; all of whom, with one or two exceptions, handled the parts assigned them with much credit to themselves and satisfaction to the audience.
The drama of “Julius Caesar” was followed by a declamation by Mr. T. C. Logan. This declamation was a recital of the death-bed scene in the life of Benedict Arnold, and was one of the best it has ever been our fortune to listen to in Washington Hall. ~
The afterpiece was “ The End of the Tether,” a comedy in two acts, and which was acted with much ability. Comedy, especially light comedy, is much more easily portrayed than tragedy, and the young men on this evening seemed to be completely at home. “Mr. Bland Smyle,” the Bubble Company Promoter and Finance Agent, was personated by Mr. William P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, while the part of “Stephenson Gearing” was taken by Mr. J. J. Quinn. Both of these characters were rendered in a style quite honorable to them, and they are entitled to much credit for their natural and unaffected manners. The roles of the twin brothers, “Lords Adolphus” and “Augustus Firstwater,” were taken by Messrs. W. T. Ball and H. C. Cassidy, and the frequent laughter told how well the young gentlemen performed. Mr. N. J. Mooney made an excellent “ John Gearing,” and the roles of “Drudge,” “Nibbs,” and “Fubbs” were well rendered by Messrs.'E. F. Arnold, A. J. Hertzog, and G. J. Gross. The role of “ Ephraim Cadge,” a Benevolent Society Agent, alias “ Bullford,” an escaped forger, alias “Jukes” a detective, was finely taken by Mr. Joseph P. McHugh, of Lafayette, who sustained his three
characters with ability and naturalness. The play ended withan excellent epilogue by Mr. WiUiam P- Breen, which he delivered in a clear and forcible manner, and on its close the audience gave hearty applause.
The Entertainment closed with a few remarks from Rev. President Golovin, who on behalf of the audience thanked the young gentlemen for the exceedingly entertaining Exhibition given.
Gregorian Chant.
We have so frequently in our pages published articles on Grgorian music, or Plain Chant, as it is called, that we have some hesitation in presenting our readers with another. Everyone knows the stand we have ever taken in regard to this venerable and religious Chant, but we are now led to repeat our admiration for it because of a circular lately received from the founders of the St. Gregory’s Society in New York city.
Recognizing the religious simplicity and beauty of Gregorian Chant, and beholding the neglect into which its study has fallen, a number of the clergy and laity of New York and elsewhere have organized an association known as “ The Society of St. Gregory,” for the purpose of fostering a love for the chant, of promoting its study, and of securing its readmission into those churches whence it has been wrongfully banished. As a revival of the study is fast taking place in many countries in Europe, we feel encouraged to believe that under the auspices of this Society, approved as it is by most of the members of the American hierarchy, our countrymen will not be backward in giving it their serious attention.
We are told in a circular sent us by the founders of the St. Gregory Society that the annual subscription for membership of regular members who are clergymen, choir-masters, organists, presidents of musical conservatories or societies, is one dollar. For men and boys, members of any church choir, conservatory, or musical society, and for associate members, the annual subscriptionis twenty-five cents The chief purpose for which the fund accruing from the subscription of members will be expended is the formation of a library. Works both theoretical and practical on the Gregorian Chant abound in Europe of which little is known here. It is desirable to have these books within reach of all regular members who desire to make such stiidies of the Chant as are necessary to secure its proper execution. Any one desiring to become a member may do so by sending his name to Rev. Alfred Young, C. S. P-, West Fifty-Ninth St., New York city, or to Rev. Ignatius Trueg, O. S. B., St. Vincent’s Abbey, Beatty, Pa.
We have no desire to enter into a discussion about the aesthetic merits of ecclesiastical music, although we believe that on this ground much can be said in favor of Gregorian. Still, even in its best day, churchmen were divided in their opinions on the subject. Some wished it in all its severe simplicity, others would do away with it entirely while others again, with the best of intentions probably, did their utmost to corrupt it with spurious ornaments.
However, as we before remarked, we do not wish to enter into a discussion on the aesthetic merits of the Chant. We would here ignore all side issues, and simply consider what is the duty of those who have anything to do with public worship in churches, no matter what their individual opinion be on the subject of the beauty of the music. From the fact that the Church commands Gregorian Chant
394
THE KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to be used, it is evidently the duty of all such to have the Gregorian Chant used in church services, and as soon as practicable to have it introduced to the exclusion of all other music.	'
Other music is tolerated. The Church is a good mother, not a stern stepmother; and when in matters like this she finds that her commands are not obeyed, because, as in many places in this country, the state of music is too backward, the musical taste not sufficiently cultivated, she tolerates the substitute until the obstacles be removed by time and culture; or, as in some churches in Europe and this country,too, the musical taste has become so vitiated by the sensual music of the time that both musicians and people consider the command a dead letter, she carefully avoids the greater evil of exciting open disobedience on the part of her naughty children, and does not absolutely forbid the modern style, but she renews by the voice of her Chief Pastor, and by the exhortation of her Bishops, her command to have the Gregorian used. Is it not evident, then, that the wish of the Church to have Gregorian Chant should be heeded ? Is it not equally evident that it is the duty of all who have anything to do with public worship to have the Gregorian used when they have the means ? and is it not also evident that everyone should use his utmost endeavors to acquire the means by which he can secure the use of the Chant? The answer is evident. Most certainly.
We hail, then, with pleasure the formation of the Society of St. Gregory, in the hope that it will be instrumental in introducing the sacred chant of the great Roman Pontiff into almost all, if not all, our churches, and we recommend our readers to become members of the association.
Personal.
—Rev. Wm. Murphy, of’60, is parish priest at Lockport, Hl.
—Mr. John Anderson, of Chicago, was among our visitors on the 22d.
—Rev. Michael Hogan, of ’67, is stationed at St. John’s Church, Chicago, Ill.
—Denis Gorman (Commercial, of ’74) is living and prospering at Arcola, Ind.
—Louis Loser, of174. (Commercial), is Cashier of the Bank of Nashua, Nashua, Iowa.
—Mrs. E- Carqueville, of Chicago, has been visiting her three sons at the College for a few days.	-
—Rev. John McGlynn, of ’74, is stationed at Joliet, DL, where he is Chaplain at the State Prison.
—Dr. J. Lavelle, of ’69, is engaged in the practice of medicine at Loogootee, Ind. He is doing well.	- "
—Carl Ortmayer (Commercial), of ’71, is with P. Hayden & Co., No. 45 and 47 Lake street, Chicago.
—Thomas Cantwell, of ’65, is in the lumber business, Chicago, Ill. His address is No. 511 Archer street.
—C. J. O’Connor (Commercial), of ’74, is living in St. Paul, Minn., where we understand he is prospering.
—Otto Ludwig (Commercial), of ’76, is in business with his father, on 5th Ave., near Madison St., Chicago, Ill.
—M. B. Collins, of ’65, is one of the most energetic employees of the United States Express Company at Cleveland, Ohio.
—Frank Rosa (Commercial), of ’76, is with his father in the dry-goods business on Madison St., near Franklin, Chicago, Ill.	'
—Oliver Fitch, of ’64, is in the dry-goods business with the firm of Fitch & Winslow, on Monroe St., near Franklin, Chicago, Ill.
—Among the guests at Notre Dame, this past week, was our old friend, Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of Laporte, Ind., whom we are always pleased to see here.
—We were pleased to see Rev. Fathers A. Oechtering, J Oechtering, J. Lauth, R. Sbortis, and L. Demers at the Entertainment on last Wednesday.	.
—George F. Berry (Commercial), of ’69, is in the office of the General Superintendent of the Rome, Watertown and Ogdensburgh Railway, Watertown, N. Y.
—Michael H. Keeley, of ’72, is practicing law at Faribault, Minnesota. He is one of the leading spirits in the Catholic Temperance Union of that State.
—We were pleased to see Mr. Thomas M. McSheehy, of Logansport, Ind., on the 21st. A truly courteous gentleman, we trust he may make it convenient to visit us often. ■
—Mr. Adams, reporter for the Chicago Times, attended the Entertainment of the Thespian Association on Wednesday evening. He expressed himself highly pleased with it.
—We are indebted to Rev. Father Roper, of Dowagiac, Mich., and to the zealous efforts of Mr. Anthony Clarke, of Walkerton, Ind., for some new subscribers to the Scholastic. Thanks, gentlemen.
—Rev. Fathers Cooney, P. Lauth, of ’64, and O’Mahony, are meeting with great success in their missions in Wisconsin. They preached missions at Cascade, Mitchell, and Lima, making eleven converts to the Faith. -
—Rev. A. Marine, C. S. C., well known at Notre Dame, is preaching the Lenten sermons at St. Anne’s Church, New Orleans, and his eloquent discourses are making him quite a favorite with the French-speaking portion of the citzens of that place.
—Messrs. E. S. Reynolds and E. W. Henricks, of the South Bend Paper Mill Company, paid us a short visit on the 15th. We were glad to hear that their paper mill was again in full operation, and we have no doubt that as soon as the fact becomes known they will regain the custom of the old patrons of the mill, which had established quite a reputation for itself under the control of Mr. Beach. Mr. Thoms, the old foreman, and said to be one of the best paper-makers in the country, is still in charge of the work.
—We were pleased to make the acquaintance, on the 21st, of Mr. Conn, ofElkbart, Ind. Mr. Conn is a dealer in musical instruments, sheet music, etc., and has, we learn, a good trade in Northern Indiana. The beautiful double bass recently manufactured by him for our band is a true specimen of his ability as a workman and speaks more in his praise than anything we can say of him. In connectiou with his business Mr. Conn publishes “ Trumpet Notes ” a journal devoted entirely to band music. This is the only journal of the kind known to us. It is well edited and of great interest to band-masters and musicians generally.
—Among the many hundreds of people at the Entertainment on the 21st we noticed Dr. Murray, of Louisville, Ky., Messrs. K. G. Schmidt, Seivers, and others, from Chicago; Mr. Meyer, of Cleveland; Mr. Coughlan and lady, of Toledo; Dr. Ham, Dr. Barbour; Messrs. W?R. McCracken of the Register; Charles Murray, of the Herald; T. A Daily, of the ald; Clem. Studebaker, Mr. and Mrs. Callaghan, Mr.and Mrs. Wells, Prof. Howard and lady. Prof. Tong and lady, Prof. Ivers and lady, Mrs. and Miss Shetland, Mr. Koehler, John N. Lederer. Mr. and Mrs. P. O’Brien, Mr. Abbott, Superintendent of the Water Works, Judge Hagerty and lady, Mrs -Taylor, Miss E. A. Starr, Mrs. Redmond, and many others whose names we did not learn.	.
Local Items.
—Bertrand was out in force on the night of the 21st.
—The ice on the lakes has already begun to break up.
—The “nimrods” fired a national salute on Washington’s Birthday.	.
—The old flag was waving gallantly from the top of the College on the 22d.
—There are a very large number of subscribers to the Circulating Library.
TMEJJOtSE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3$5
C.
I
—Of course there was extra rec. on the 22d, in honor of Washington’s Birthday.
—The Elocution Class this session is largely attended, and great progress is made.
—Tell it to the marines! It is thought navigation will open about the 1st of March.
—If you don’t patronize the Lemonnier Circulating Library you don’t belong to the ton.
—A fine new double-bass has been procured for the Band. It was purchased from Conn, of Elkhart.
—The tenor in the Senior department has a voice as sweet and tender as a golden bell, some say a cowbell.
—The weather on the night of the 21st was just the thing, and made a drive from South Bend a most agreeable one.
—The “ inimitable ” on rising the other morning was discovered with his arm out of the window feeling for daylight.
—The Seniors have had new benches made for the baseball fields. These will be a great accommodation for the lookers-on.
—The audience attending “Waiting for the Verdict” three years ago was completely thrown into the shade by that of last Wednesday.
—The Juniors have been practicing o’ evenings, several Latin and English hymns which they intend singing at the Low Masses during the week.
—There were a great many people from Chicago, South . Bend, Niles, and other places, at the Thespian Entertainment on the evening of the 21st.
—All the visitors at the Thespian Entertainment were enthusiastic in their praise of the manner in which all the young gentlemen acquitted themselves.
—A game of baseball took place last Thursday between the Excelsior and the Juanita Baseball Clubs resulting in favor of the former by a score of 8 to 10.
—Improvements have been made in the room allotted to those studying Telegraphy. The boys are now able to “sling lightning ” with considerable rapidity.
—The members of the Junior Department are about forming a military company. All the members of the department intend joining the company, so we hear.
—We wish that the Secretaries of the various societies would hand in their reports earlier in the week. They should attend to this duty the.day after the society meeting.
—The decorations in Washington Hall on the evening of the 21st were very tasty, and the young gentlemen having charge of them deserve all the compliments passed upon them.
—As the snow and ice of winter disappear, visions of delicate-footed Spring flit through the imagination only to be chilled by the cold wind that comes blowing around the corner.
—A prize, two large volumes, was lately offered to the Class of Ancient History, to be competed for by the members of the class. It was won by Mr. George J. Gross, of Reading, Pa.
—Vespers to-morrow are of the 2d Sunday of Lent, page 82 of the Vesperal, with a Commemoration of St. Margaret of Cortona, and the Suffrages, page 34 and 35. The Antiphons and Psalms are on page 32.
—The 21st regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Feb. 17th. J. W. Burke, J. Fitzgerald and. R. Calkins delivered declamations. T. H. Quinn and G. Lonstorf were elected members.
—So-called comic valentines were received by quite a number of people here on the 14th. The mental labor bestowed on the “ poetry ” as well as the pains bestowed on the sketches by the “ artist ” must have been immense.
—The 22d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held February 16th. Mast. Cavanaugh read the semi-annual report of the readers. Masts.
• Burger, Hagerty, Widdicombe and Lindberg delivered declamations.
—The Band continues to improve steadily under its able Leader. The execution of the difficult music which has been
arranged for it is highly creditable to the organization, and reflects great honor not only upon the individual members, but also on the master-mind which rules them.
—Most of the Juniors joined in the promenade last Sunday. While out, one of their number, who is somewhat acquainted with military tactics, had the others fall into line and then put them through several evolutions. Since then they have been talking of starting a company of cadets.
—Gov. Hayes believes in college literary societies. He says that one Western college owes to her societies the oratorical excellence of an unusual number of graduates. We agree with the Governor on that point, and would like to see all our students members of.some of the many societies at Notre Dame.
—The 21st regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on the 17th of February. Masters Rheinbojdt, Bell, Stewart, Taylor and Wagner were admitted to membership. Declamations were given by Masters R. Keenan, Congar, Nicholas, Pleins, Ingwerson, Peltier, Scanlan and Frazee.
—The canary in the Commercial study-hall, though not belonging like that in the Junior to the family of bell-ringers, is quite a fine singer. As the boys begin filinginto the hall in the morning he greets them with a glorious burst of song, and as the last squad leave it at nine o’clock he gives them a farewell warble.
—The largest crowd ever attending an Entertainment given during the scholastic year at Notre Dame greeted the Thespians on Wednesday evening last. The chairs and benches were all occupied, and for the accommodation of visitors the students were forced to occupy the galleries. It reminded one of Commencement-Day audiences.
—The fleet of foot and swift of limb of the Junior Department were to be seen on the Campus last Thursday. There were several foot-races; the 1st was one by Alex. Keenan, of Lindsay, Ontario; the 2nd by Jno. Felan, of Dubuque, Iowa; the 3d by Fred Lang, of Chicago, Ill.; the 4th by H. W. Rogers, of Chicago, Ill.; and the 5th by W. Jones, of Columbus, Ohio.
—In awarding praise for the success of the last Entertainment, let not the worthy Director of the Thespian Association be forgotten. No one will ever know the amount of labor and trouble attending an Exhibition until he has assumed the direction of it. Prof. Lyons has this winter, by his success, covered himself with glory. Long live the Thespians and their able Director!
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association and the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society belong to the Junior Department, presided over by Br. Leander as Prefect; the Columbian Seciety belongs to the Commercial Department, presided over by Br. Norbert as Prefect; and the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association and the Thespian Society belong to the Collegiate Department, presided over by Br. Alban as Prefect.
—On Washington’s Birthday the College Band, played a great number of airs in front of the College building. Among other airs played were the “ Star-Spangled Banner,” “Hail Columbia,” “Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean,” “ Yankee Doodle,” ‘America,” besides a number of other popular pieces. In the afternoon the boys enjoyed themselves in field-sports. Baseball, foot-ball, etc., etc., were indulged in to the full satisfaction of all.
—On the night of the Exhibition it was found necessary to bring in all the chairs from the study-halls, etc., for the accommodation of the visitors. It is estimated that there were fifteen hundred people in the hall. When it is remembered that the College is two miles from the city, we must regard this as immense. In point of respectability, the audience could compare favorably with any city one. None of the audience went away disappointed.
____We thankfully acknowledge the receipt of a card of invitation to the 20th Annual Reception of the Catholic Philopatrian Literary Institute, of Philadelphia, which took place in that city on Monday evening, February 12th, at the Academy of Music. The Philopatrians evidently get up their entertainments in first-class style, and we have no doubt that all who attend them are more than pleased. The card is handsomely printed in black and gold, and is a fine specimen of the art preservative.
>
396
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
e —The music at the Entertainment on last Wednesday vening was excellent in its kind, and was well played. The Leichte Cavalerie of Suppe was given by the Orchestra with a spirit worthy to be followed by the members of that organization on all occasions. The overture was well rendered, and shows plainly what the Orchestra can really do when good will and practice are united to a knowledge of music. May the Orchestra ever continue to furnish us with such music, and continue to advance in the science of sweet sounds.
—Last Tuesday, one of the Prefects entered the class-room of 2d Arithemetic, Jr., in the Preparatory department, and gave three lest problems to the members of the class, promising a prize to the one that would solve them. Master Jos. Lumley worked the three, and was awarded the prize. It is said that the prize given was once the property of John Steele, alias Coal-Oil Johnnie. We cannot, however, vouch for the truth of the assertion. The Prefect speaks well of the members of the class. He says the problems were difficult, and that nearly all the members of the class solved’lwo of them.
—We are in receipt of The Scholastic Almanac, with compliments of its compiler, Mr. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame, Ind. The Almanac is a model of taste and elegance in typography, and in addition to the usual useful and practical calendars, etc., it contains a variety of original prose and poetical extracts, taken from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic, the class paper at the College, which are interesting in the extreme. This is the second annual venture of Mr. Lyons, and reflects great credit upon his efforts. The price is 25 cents each, and they are in good demand.—Mishawaka Enterprise.
—We again call the attention of our readers to the advertisement of the Little Shamrock, which Mr. Thos. M. McSheehy, of Logansport, Ind., intends publishing on St. Patrick’s Day. A brilliant lady journalist of Chicago edits the paper, and we have no hesitation in saying that the literary merit of the paper will be of a high order. The edition published will be very large, 30,000; and it will be sold on all trains leaving Chicago, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and St. Louis on the morning of St. Patrick’s Day. Mr. McSheehy (who, by the way, is a most amiable and worthy young gentleman) visitedNotre Dame on Wednesday last in the interests of the Little Shamrock, and has made Messrs. W. P. Breen, H. C. Cassidy and Clarence Paxon his agents for the sale of the paper here.
—The Choral Union gave us only one selection on the evening of the 21st, and that, was rendered in a manner highly creditable to all who took part in it. New life has been infused into the organization, and the enthusiasm which has been created seems to be catching. As a consequence, the list of membership could easily be enlarged. We trust that the young gentlemen belonging to the organization will not suffer their enthusiasm to die out, but that on the contrary their interest may be still more excited, and their ambition aroused to greater efforts. If they continue rehearsals and show the proper good will, there can be no doubt whatever but that the vocal music at the end of the year will be fully up to that of former years, if indeed it does not surpass it. Good will and plenty of exercise are the things most essential on their part. With these and the instructions of the directors, there can be no such thing with them as failure.
—The special reporter of the Chicago Times, sent to Notre Dame to report the Exhibition on the 21st, telegraphed to that paper as follows: “ Washington’s Birthday is one of the festival days of Notre Dame University. The three hundred students of this Institution commenced its celebration last evening in Washington Hall, where the Thespian Association gave a dramatic entertainment to a crowded and enthusiastic audience. About one thousand people were present, including many of the prominent names among the Catholic clergy of the West and numerous relatives of the College boys. The Shakespearian drama of‘Julius Cassar,’ followed by a spirited farce, were the leading attractions. Orations, recitations, music, and an address by the Rev. Father Golovin, President of the College, were also included in the programme, which was three hours in performance. The Notre Dame boys never import talent in their exhibitions to which they in
vite the public. They supply everything, from tragedian to brass band and low comedian. This evening’s Exhibition was one of the most successful ever given at Notre Dame, and reflected great credit upon the members of the Thespian Society.”
—The following works have been added to the Lemon-nier Library during the week past, viz.: Thiers’ History of the French Revolution; Ecclesiastical History of Ireland, Rev. T. E. Walsh; History of Arabia, Ancient and Modern, 2 vols.; Tales from American History, 2 vols.; History of Massachusetts, W. H. Carpenter; Natural History of SeL borne, Rev. G. White; Life-History of Dr. Livingstone and a full account of the Herald-Stanley Expedition, Henry M. Stanley; Wonders of the Arctic World, A History of Discoveries in the North from the Earliest Times, Sargent and Cunnington; Life of Commodore Perry, Alex. Slidell Mackenzie, 2 vols.; Beauties and Sublimities of Nature, Chas. Buche; Sallust, Translated by Wm. Rose; Wonders . of Optics, Chas. W. Quinn; The Chemistry of Light and Photography, Dr. Hermann Vogel; The Science of Law, Sheldon Amos; The Forms of Water, John Tyndall; Foods, Edward Smith; Life and Growth of Language, Whitney; Theory of Sound in its Relation to Music, Prof. Pietro Blaserna; The Conservation of Energy, Balfour Stewart; Money and Mechanism of Exchange, W. Stanley Jevons; Animal Mechanism, E. J Marey; Descent and Darwinism, Oscar Schmidt. Rev. Father Zahm presented; The New Chemistry, Josiah P. Cooke; The Nature of Light, Dr. Eugene Lommel. W. J. Onahan, LL. D., of Chicago, gave Constitutional History of the United States, 1750-1832, Von Holst.
RoH of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Breen, P. Cooney, W. Chapoton, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, M. Caldwell, E. Davenport, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garso, A. Hertzog, J. Johnson, J. Krost, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, W. Keily, J. Lambin, J. Larkin, H. Maguire, P. J. Mattlmore, P. W. Mattimore, John Murphy, V. McKinnon, T. McGrath, J. MeEniry, Carl Otto, P. O’Leary, J. O’Rourke, C. O’Donald, J. Proudhomme, E. Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, F. Sehlink, J. Silverthorn, G. Saxir -;er, P. Tamble, F. Vandervannet, J. Vanderhoof, E. White. J. J. Murphy.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, A. Bergck, W. J. Brady, A. Burger, J. Bell, F. Carroll, G. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, A Congar, C. Colwell, F. Ewing, J. English, R. French, C. Faxon, J. Healy, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, J. Krost, Fred. W. Lang, J. Lumley, F. McGrath, J. Mosal, J. Mungoven, R. Mayer, Thos. Nelson, Chas. Orsinger, F. Pleins, E. Poor, C. Peltier, R. Price, F. Rheinboldt, S. D. Ryan, I. Rose, G. Sampson, J. Schobey, J. Sill, C. Taylor, Nathan Van-namee, C. Van Mourick, W. Vander Heyden, T. T. Wagner, L. Wolf.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Heron, J. Seeger, P. Nelson, G. Rhodius, G. Lowrey, E. Carqueville, W. Coolbaugh, W. McDevitt, J. Scanlan, W. Cash, C. Reif, M. Coughlin, G. Hadden, C. Kauffman, F. Carqueville, W. Carqueville, H. Riopelle, A. Sehnert, A. Rheinboldt, W. Coughlin, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, H. Kitz, F. Gaffney.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING THURSDAY, FEB. 22, 1877.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
G. Saylor, G. Laurans, F. Vandervannet, T. Garceau, J. Vanderhoof, P. Hamilton, J. Burke, J. Fitzgerald, J. Krost, J. Kenney, M. Smith, F. Sehlink, E. Pefferman, J. Patterson, J. Lambin, A. Baca, T. Fishel, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, J. Krost, J. Hagerty, W. Brady, G. Cassidy, J. Rothert, G. Sugg, J. O’Meara, D, Ryan, L. Wolf, J. Silverthorne, M. Hynds.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Heron, P. Nelson, R. Pleins, G. Lowrey, J. Seeger, G. Lambin, G. Rhodius, J. Scanlan, W. McDevitt, W. Coolbaugh, E.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	397
Carqueville, W. Cash, M. Coughlin, C. Reif, F. Carqueville, C. Kauffman, H. Riopelle, F. Gaffney, W. Carqueville, John Inder-rieden, Jos. Inderrieden, W. Coughiin,H. Kitz, C. Long.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Book-keeping—T. Garceau, M. Smith, J. Fitzgerald, J. Van-derhoof, J. Patterson, T. Garrity, J. Gray, G. Cassidy, C. O’Donnell, W. Brady, W. Turnbull, G. Saxinger, F. Keller, W. Dodge; Arithmetic—J. Johnson, G. Sugg; Geography—J. Fitzgerald, J. Vandervannet, J. Patterson, G. Cassidy; English—J. Fitzgerald, C. Faxon.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct-deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, L. Beall, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, A. Byrne, M. Walsh, L. Kelly, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, A. Reising, H. Russell, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, H. Hawkins, E. and M. Thompson, E. O’Connor, E. Rodinberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, L. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, M. Dunn, K. Gibbons, L. Tighe, L. Sehwass, A. Koch, M. Pomeroy, M. Smalley, M. Halligan, K. Martin, M. Usselman, L. Brownbridge, S. Rheinboldt, L. Weier, E. Wright, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Brady, H. Julius, P. Gaynor, R. Casey, E. O’Neill, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, M. Spier, A. Cullen, E. Lange, H. Dryfoos, B. Wilson, A. Woodin, A. Cavenor, B. Siler, E. Davenport, M. Coughlin, S. Cash, M. Hungerford, I. Cooke, J. Bergie, N. Johnson, E. Black, C. Thaler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Morgan, D. Gordon, A. Kirchner, M. Mulligan, L. Walsh, A. McGrath, C. Correll, J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, M. Cox, E Mulligan, L. Cox, L. Ellis, M. Hackett, L. Vannamee, A. Williams, J. Butts, E. Wootten, par excellence. Misses A. Ewing, M. Ewing, L. Chilton, F. Fitz, M. Robertson, I. Mann, L. Forrey, M. McFadden, M. Davis, A. Peak.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
1st Class—Miss L. Ritchie.
4th Class—Misses M. Smalley, C. Silverthorne, J. Cronin, L. Davenport, A. Williams and A. Getty.
5th Class—Miss M. Spier, K. Gibbons and J. Butts. PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses A. Cullen and L. Kirchner.
4th Class.—Misses M. and E. Thompson and S. Moran.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses C. Morgan and P. Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses E. Lange, A. Koch, M. O’Connor, D. Cavenor and M. Schultheis.
GERMAN.
. 1st Class—Misses J. Nunning, M. Faxon, M. Julius, A. O’Connor, L. Weber, L. and A. Kirchner, H. Dryfoos, L. Kelley, M. Schultheis.
2d Class—Misses D. Gordon, M. Usselman, L. Johnson, M. Spier, A. Koch, S. Hennebery, J. Cronin.
■ FRENCH CLASSES.
1st Class—Misses L. Beall, M. and E. Thompson, P. Gaynor, N. McGrath, B. Wilson, A. Harris.
2d Class—Misses H. Russell, L. Rodenburger, J. Burgert, A. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, M. O’Connor, A. Walsh, J. Bennett.
3d Class—Misses M. Brady, A. Byrnes, M. Walsh. _ 4th Class—Misses S. Moran, J. Cronin, M. and A. Ewing, L. Sehwass, E. and M. Mulligan, A. Williams, A. Getty, J. Butts.
PLAIN SEWING.
Misses M. Faxon, A. O’Connor, L. Beall, P. Gaynor, A. Harris, L. O’Niel, C. Morgan, M. Carroll, H. Dryfoos, E. Thompson, S. Moran, L. Weber, E. Forrey, A. Woodin, A. Cavenor, A. Rising, C. Boyce.
FANCY-WORK.
Misses M. Faxon, L. Sehwass, L. Kirchner, H. Hawkins, M. Schultheis, C. Silverthorne, L. Weir, N. McGrath, E. Dryfoos, A. Koch, A. Harris, M. Halligan, M. Spier, C. Morgan, C. Thay-lor, B. Siler, S. Cash, L. Johnson, L. Brownbridge, K. Gibbons, N. O’Meara, C. Correll, A. McGrath, A. Ewing, A. Morgan, L. Walsh, J. Kingsburry, L. Ellis, A. Williams, A. Getty, J. Butts D. Gordon, L. vannamee, R. Cox.	•
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses E. O’Connor, B. Spencer, H. Julius, J. Nunning.
1st Class—Misses B. Wilson. 2d Div.—Misses H. Hawkins, M. Cravens, C. Silverthorne.	-
2d Class—Misses A. Harris, M. Julius, A. Byrne, L. Kirchner, J. Cronin. 2d Div.—Misses A. Koch, L. O’Niel, M. Spier, C. Morgan.
3d Class—Misses D. Cavenor, G. Kelly, B. Siler, A. Hennebery, M. Usselman, M. Pleins. 2d Div.—Misses D. Gordon, J. Burgert, A. O’Connor.
4th Class—Misses A. Kirchner, A. McGrath, L. Walsh, E. and M. Thompson, E. Lange, J. Bennett, L. Johnson, K. Burgle, L. Forrey. 2d Div.—Misses N. McGrath, A. Walsh, A. Cullen, M. Schultheis.
5th Class—Misses M. O’Connor, A. Morgan, H. Dryfoos, P. Gaynor, E. Forrey, L. Weber, M. Walsh, J. Burgie, H. O’Meara; entered the Class—A. Reising. 2d Div.—Misses M. Robertson, G. Conklin, A. Woodin, L. Wier, I. Cook, M. Getty, A. Cavenor; classed—Miss Kate Martin.
6th Class—Misses M. Brady, C. Correll, L. Beall, L. Kelly, A. Ewing, N. Johnson, S. Cash, M. Ewing, M. Mulligan, L. Sehwass; classed—Miss Gibbons. 2d Div.—Misses N. Hackett, C. .Vannamee, L. Davenport, C. Boyce, M. Halligan, A. Peak, M. Coughlin, R. Casey.	’
7th Class—Misses L. Cox, L. Lambin, M. Davis, L. Tighe, E. Wright, N. Black.
8th Class—Misses-M. and K. Cox, E. Mulligan. .
9th Class—Misses L. Ellis, E. Wooten.
10th Class—Misses S. Rheinboldt, M. McFadden.
Harp—1st Class—Miss E. O’Connor. 2d Class—Misses D. Cavenor and B. Wilson.
Organ—Misses M. Usselmann and B. Spencer.
Guitar—A. Woodin.
Harmony—Misses O’Connor, Spencer, Julius and Nunning.
Since the Examination, we are pleased to note the practise of scales and exercises. The young ladies appear determined that the piano shall be managed and give out its best sounds. Now is the best season of the year for earnest work, and remembering from former experience how fast the second session flies, we hope all will profit by this little warning.
For Sale.
One set, unbound, in perfect order, of the Ave Maria—from May 1st, 1S65, to January 1st, 1877. Price §35.
One set, in same condition, of the Notre Dame Scholastic, from September 1867 to July 1876. Price S16.
Address
BOZ 525,
Notre Dame, .	.	. Indiana.
THE “WESTERN CITIZEN.”
The Western Citizen,	the only Journal	published	in Indiana in the interests of the	Irish	race, will	be furnished at
One Year -	-	- -	$1 50
Six'Months -	-	-	-	90
Three Months	-	- -	50
Sample Copies sent on application.	-
Address,
“WESTERN CITIZEN,”
INDIANAPOLIS, IND.
398	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
SPEER & MITCHELL [N. S Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIO’S Gr. TONG, [of’651 Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Beal Estate Agent, Boom No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.	'
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
I Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Pulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJNIVriVG- <fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Boom 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor.'Clark and Bandolph sts., Chicago, III.
JOHN E. McHUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE «st DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the D. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
TT7TLLIA M J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St, Columbus. O.
JAMES A. O’REILLY-of ’69—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOLTIN' T>. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. ST ACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Trice 35 cts., postpaid?
Orders should be sent to	.
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at. Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 10.
IO 07 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55 p m; < leveland 9 45.
X1 59 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10; Cleveland 9 45; Buffalo 4 00 am.
9 1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
4 40 p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3	45 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m, Chicago 6 30 a m. -
5 38am, Pacific E" press. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 82pm
4	05 pm, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50;
Chicago, 8 20	"	.	,
8	OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8	30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supti
Thomas M. McSheehy’s

W eekly Newspapers.
Little Shamrock,
The catholic Columbian.pub’ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	• D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AVE M/1.RIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price. §2.5".
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpHE BOND JCLOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich. _L igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House,
IT-	Agent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch, of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Hadison Street, Chicago.
FOR ST. PATRICE’S DAY.
Owing to the success attending the first issue of the Little Shamrock, I have determined to issue on St. Patrick's Day, ISTl, a second number. It will be a large six-column quarto paper (the size of the Chicago Times). The issue will be 25,000, and will be printed in green, the national color of Ireland.
It will be edited and its columns controlled by one of America’s most brilliant female journalists (a lady resident of Chicago, but whose name I reserve) and will contain contributions from the best journalistic talent of the country and the most distinguished Irish patriots, and will be Illustrated with
ENGRAVINGS
made especially for it.
It will contain such articles as will call to the memory of Erin’s eriled children their dear Emerald Isle, and cause them to love the country of their adoption with a deeper and more abiding love.
It will be sold in all the large cities of the United States, and on all trains leaving Chicago, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and St. Louis on the morning of St. Patrick’s Day.
As an advertising medium it will furnish unexampled facilities. It is not a money-making scheme, and the price of advertising has been put at the lowest figures simply to cover the actual cost.
This is the only enterprise of the kind ever undertaken in this country, and will be of peculiar interest to thousands of its citizens.
Arrangements will be made by which a sufficient number of these papers will be at the College and Academy on St. Patrick’s Day, affording students an opportunity to procure copies of this novel paper for themselves and friends.
THOMAS M. McSHEEHY,
P. O. Box 4=86, - - Logansport, Indiana,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
399
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
tLA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negau-* nee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior
Country. Its	,
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.
Close connections made at junction points with trains of all cross points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the United States and Canadas.
Bemember, you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & NorthWestern Railway, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, comer Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Sten-nett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depc^, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, II.. and Louisiana, Mo........4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.........................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex..........7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express......8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation......................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
, FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting ol three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, sh"-ubbery, eic., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
DEC. 10,1876.	'
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.	.
GOING WEST			•	
	No. 1,	No 7,	No .3,	No. 5,
	Fas-t Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Night Ex	Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.30 pm.	9.00 AM.	2.00 p.m.	6.00 AM.
Rochester,		12.40 A.M.	10.15 “	3.14 “	7.45 “
Alliance,..			305 “	1250 p.m.	5.55 “	11.00 “
Orrville,		447 “	2.32 “	7.42 “	12.55 pm.
Mansfield,		6.50 “	440 “	9.55 “	3.11 “
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	10.30 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5 40 p.m. 10.35 p.m.		
Forest......			9.25 “	7.40 “	11.53 “	
Lima.	-.	10.45 “	9.35 “	1.05 AM.	
Ft.Wayne,		120 pm.	12.10 am.	3.25 “	
Plymouth,		345 “	3 20 “	5.49 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.20 “	7.20 “	9.20 “	
GOING EAST.				
	bo. 4,	bo. 2,	No. 6,	No. 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Par. Ex.	Mail.
ChieAo*n _ . 			10 40 p.iw	8.20 am.	5.35 p.m.	
Plymouth				2.40 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
FL Wayne,		6.55 “	2.10 pm.	11.45 “	
Tiima 					8 55 “	4.05 “	1.39 AM.	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.20 “	2 50 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.20 “	• •••••
Crestline	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 pm.	4.30 a.m.	6.05 am.
Mansfield,	....	12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6 50 “
Orrville,		2.32 “	9.38 “	6.58 “	9.15 «
Alliance,		4.10 “	11.15 “	8.55 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 y	1.20 AM.	11.06 “	2.00 pm.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 f	2.30 “	12.15 pm.	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily.		Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh		
daily except Saturday.	Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except			
Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.				
THIS IS THE		ONLY LINE		
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to				
Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without				
change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at				
the lowest current rates.				
	F. B. MxEES, G-P, « T. A.			
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i
OUR COUNTRY!
What Will Become of It ?
Is a question now agitating the public mind. -
The grave issues before Congress; the final settlement of the late Presidential election; the incoming Congress; the new President; the Policy of the next Administration; and future welfare of the country and people, are matteis of great interest to each and every individual. Such a crisis has not been presented since the Declaration of Independence.
A Truthful History of events, and doings of Congress, will be given with impartiality and fairness in the
CINCINNATI ENQUIRER, a public-spirited paper echoing the wishes of the people, advocating submission to the Laws, good Government, and .the Rights of the People to be heard upon all matters that pertain to the country’s welfare.
The Tricky Politicians, always ready to organize trouble, but who never participate in danger, will be shown up in their true characters. By subscribing for the Enquirer, you will get a faithful record of events as they transpire, without Party Coloring and unbiased by Party feelings, as the true merit in a newspaper is its ability and willingness to give the
NEWS AS IT COMES
and not as it is prepared by party demagogues to mislead the people. Specimen copies free. ■
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
FOR WEEKLY.
Single Copy, one year...........................$2	00
Five Copies	“	.........$1 75 each.......... 8 75
Ten “	“	.........1 60 “ .............16 00
Twenty “	“	..........'150 “ .............30	00
FOR DAILY.
Without Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year....§12	00
Six Months............ 6	00
Three Months...........3	25
One Month.............125
With Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year..§14 00
Six Months.............. 7	00
Three Months........ 3 50
One Month............... 1	50
Most liberal terms to club agents, and agents’ outfit.
Agents wanted at every post-office. Address all letters to
Send for specimen copies
FARAN & McLEAN, Publishers, CINCINNATI, OHIO, dec 23-lOt	’
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21, 1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	*Kal. Accom.	It Atlantic Express.	t Nigh Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles ... “ Jackson. Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ t> 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express. 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles'	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 0 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30	10 05 a m 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p-m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 *■	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30 “•	9 50 p m 12 42 a.n 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 “
Niles and Sontli Bend Division. • .	GOING NORTH. Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15	p m.	§9 06 a.m.	§7 00	p.m “ Notre Dame—8 22 *•	7 23	“	9	07 “	7 07	“ Ar. Niles—	9	00	“	8 00	“	9	40 “	7 40	“ GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00	a.m.	§5 00	p.m “ Notre Dame—7 07	“	4	56 “	8	32	“	5 32	“ Ar. South Bend—7 15	“	5	05 “	8	40	5 40	“ ♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily.	^Saturday	and Sunday excepted §Sunday only.	, G. L. Elliott.	Wm. B. Strong, Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago. B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame. 1					
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STEEET,
CHICAGO, ILLTITOIS.
shickey, PROPRIETOR OF THE NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE I
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy's, I ’ refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
.	e. S HICKEY.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.	•
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.’’
My Mineralogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excel lent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, . specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.	'
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the stoie No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1,500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of Ino illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number or Specimens
25	50	100
inbox inbox inbox
100
200
300
Crystals and fragments.....
Students’ size, larger.....
§ 50 §1 §1 50 | § 1
1 50	3	6	5
Amateur’s size, 2J4 in. x VA.................. 10
High School or Acad, size, 214x3^4 in .shelf specimens	25
College size, 3%x6 in., shelf specimens...... 500
$ 2
10
25
50
100
$ 3
25
50
100
300
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy, Yellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science } Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York,