Yotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlcturus • vive quasi eras nioriturus.
Volume XIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 20, 1880.
Number 10.
Our Staff.
G. E. Clarke. '81.
G. F. Sugg, ’81.
T. F. Clarke, ’83.
W. B. McGorrlk ’82.
F. W. Bloom, ’81.
H. C. Simms, ’84.
J. P. Hagan, ’81.
R. E. Fleming, '83.
F. H. Grever, ’88.
Childhood.
A SONNET, BY W. J. K.
As murjnur gently through ihe balmy air, The breezy wiiids of sweet and fragrant May, They bear upon their willing wings a lay*
Which tells of joy, with neither grief nor care. ' Thus passes childhood, short, and sweet, and fair, t, With ne’er a care to mar life’s pleasant way}'	•
' And ne’er a hand its pleasures sweet to stay;
And thus with joy ’tis wont its course to bear To manhood ranks. Oh! would the joys of men Were all as fair as those of childhood’s days.!
For sweeter far are they than all the bliss. That’s treasured deep in an Elysian glen, Where birds in happy notes sing forth their lays, And brooklets give to mossy banks their kiss.
“Them ------- Jiswitz.”
Apropos to the present persecution of the Jesuits in France for their alleged hostile attitude towards the Republican Government of that country, a few remarks on Jesuitism in America may not be deemed as altogether out of place.
The influence of the Jesuits began to be felt in America very soon after the establishment of the Order by St. Ignatius Loyola;'and for an answer to the question whether their influence has been beneficial or otherwise, we must look to the fruits of their works. Our Divine Lord in His infinite wisdom has left a very simple but infallible rule whereby we may justly judge of institutions and men, and that is: “ By their fruits ye shall know them.”
Before the landing of the Pilgrim Fathers at Plymouth Rock, and before a human habitation had been erected within the historic limits of Jamestown;'the French settlers in Canada had built a comfortable and prosperous little town, which they named Quebec, and which, as nearly all
American historians unite in testifying, “was both tempor-dly and spiritually in the hands of the Jesuits.” They built chapels and churches, and erected schools for the instruc-lion of Indian youth; and, as Venable remarks in his “School History of the IJniled States,” one year before the founding of Harvard University they [the Jesuits] had opened a college for boys.” But the Canadian Jesuits did not confine tbeir labors to their settlement. Embarking in frail canoes, they coasted along the banks of the St. Lawrence to the Great Lakes, visiting the many tribes of savages who dwelt in those wild regions, instructing them in the truths ol the Gospel, and customs of civilizition. Pushing onward, these zealous men, inspired with the spirit of the first Apostles, whose successors they were, penetrated the Lake regions into the then wild lauds of the present States of Illinois, Wisconsin and Michigan. Every- ' where their labors were attended with success; very soon they enjoyed the satisfaction of seeing the wigwam of the savage giving place to the more comfortable log cabin; the chase forsaken for the arts of agriculture; and the’ scattered and hostile tribes gathered together into villages . and towns. It was then that the Jesuits redoubled their exertions; and as they became-better acquainted with the language of the natives, their labors were more than rewarded when they heard the Pater fibster and Ave Maria uttered with fervent hearts by their dusky converts, and that too in their own harsh guttural language. Bit to rhe ears of the devout missionaries those harsh sounds were as notes of unsurpassable melody.
The success of the Jesuit missionaries was not attained without almost incredible hardships and sufferings; yea, more, even death—death from fatigue, caused by self-denial, and death from the cruel tortures of the fierce savages who would not receive the word of eternal life.
Where is the American who would not glory in the name of Jacques Marquette? Andyet, I venture to assert that there are hundreds of persons, who, in speaking of the early pioneers of the great West, mention this revered' name, not knowing the character of the apostolic man who bore it. He was a Jesuit, a priest, an apostle. It was neither the spirit of adventure nor self-aggrandizement which prompted this heroic man to forsake the haunts of civilization, and seek the forests and rivers of the great West and South; it was the same flame of the love of God, and zeal for the conversion of the savage, which burned with exceeding ardor in the bosom of the great Christopher Columbus.
In the year 1673, Father Marquette and Louis Joliet embarked in a canoe on the Wisconsin River, and following its course downwards, discovered the Mississippi, on the 17th of June, of the same year. During the voyage down the Wisconsin the holy priest preached to the Indians
H6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and with such good results that he gained tbeir everlasting love and veneration. Upon reaching the Mississippi, our two heroes, together with a few Indian companions, embarked in their canoes and followed the course of the majestic river as far as the mouth of the Arkansas. Along the banks of the Mississippi, wherever an Indian village was to be found, the holy priest, never losing sight of his divine mission, always lingered among the nations for some time to deliver to them “ tidings of great joy.” What Father Marquette and Joliet had begun was completed by La Salle and De Tonty some years afterward; that is, the navigation of the Mississippi to its mouth. The first settlements of Europeans in the West and South Were under the “Jesuitical” influence,- they were Kaskaskia in Illinois, and Arkansas Post on the Arkansas River, three hundred miles above its mouth.
While a fierce war was raging between the whites and Indians in the New England colonies, a bond of perfect unity existed between the Western settlers and their dusky neighbors. The French, under the direction of the Jesuit Fathers, gained the good graces of the savages by kindness; and history has not recorded a single instance where the French were compelled to go to church under the protection of armed men. All this was the result of a little difference in “ Gospel ” administration. The Eastern colonists practised the “exterminating” plan, while those of the West, following the direction of the “wily” Jesuits, lived according to the precept of Him they served—“ Love ye one another even as I have loved you.” It did not require a vast amount of reasoning to discover that Gospel precepts, garnished with buck-shot, was not the kind of love referred to in the precept of our Saviour.
But history has already recorded the glories of the Jesuits in their mission and labors throughout the vast regions which they visited as the first representatives of civilization and religion. From the chilling blasts of the pine forests of Lake Michigan to the perfumed breezes of the orange groves of Louisiana, from the source of the rushing waters of the St. Lawrence to the outlet of the majestic Mississippi, these apostles plowed their weary way, leaving ' behind them monuments which time cannot destroy; they are monuments erected and enshrined in the hearts of everyone who boasts the possession of a true American heart. Another monument have they left: the Gross. They erected the symbol of man’s redemption in the forest, on the mountain top, on the river bank, in the “ spirit dells” of the Indians, and engraved the sacred sign upon the very trees; thus consecrating their spiritual conquest to the crucified Master who sent them forth upon their mission of love and mercy.
Emperors and kings have risen from obscurity and astonished the world by the glory of their reigns; they have left magnificent monuments which proclaim to posterity that they did really live; next, history copies the inscriptions from the monuments, and pronounces judgment upon the arts, and then we form our own ideas therefrom. And yet, a man of education, of birth, and of fine sentiment, who can voluntarily give up his youth and brilliant prospects for the gond of his fellow-man, does infinitely more th«n the most powerful potentate the world has ever seen. Such was the glory desired, and obtained, by the Jesuit missionaries. The Jesuits,- filled with the-spirit of their divine Master, thought only of the salvation of their fellowman ; and their incessant labors are ever directed for the acquisition of that object Like Him who sent them, the
Scribes and Pharisees of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries have rewarded them with calumnies and persecutions. .
Professor Morse, the alleged inventor of the Telegraph, remarked on the occasion of a public celebration that “the Republic of the United States would last forever. Nothing was to be feared from other nations; the only- evil which threatened it was an internal * malady,’ and that was the villainous Society of Jesuits.” On being questioned by a very liberal Protestant gentleman as to his authority for such a statement, he replied that the Marquis de Lafayette had said that the unhappy and turbulent state of the French Government was owing to the intrigues of the Jesuits, and that if they were allowed to obtain a foothold in the United Slates they would eventually destroy the Government.
Such a statement coming from such a source naturally excited no little talk, which resulted in tracing the rumor to its original source. The result of investigation proved that Lafayette did say that the Jesuits were calumniously accused of being the cause ol the unhappy state of affairs in France, and that they were unjustly persecuted throughout Europe. Professor Morse got hold of the words of Lafayette, and like the translators of King James’s Bible, “ things transfixed, and things misplaced ” to suit the tastes of the average devout Reformers. I think it was Archbishop Spalding who remarked in speaking of the above calumny: “Thus we see that the great Professor Morse has invented something other than the magnetic Telegraph.”
All glory and honor to Professor Morse for his indefati gable labors and inventions in connection with the Telegraph, say I; but everlasting anathema and opprobrium attend his malicious and senseless calumniation of the Jesuits.
In our own day, on the other hand, a fair-minded officer in the Union Army said that “no one of common sense would deny the fact that the Jesuit missionary Father De Smet had done more for the preservation of peace among the Sioux Indians, and the protection of the lives of Western settlers, than a whole army of troops.”
Wherever one finds a community of Jesuits in this great land he will also find solid piety, good example, education, and true zeal for the advancement of their neighbor. It is amusing to hear many ignorant persons express their crude ideas of “Jesuitism," particularly those who are regular attendants at camp-meetings and love feasts. I will quote one instance. At the close of the Republican Convention held at Chicago, last summer, professional duties . brought me to the grand “ Camp-meeting and Reunion of . the Sunday Schools of Northern Indiana,” held at Acton* . (I am not a preacher nor tract peddler.) I boarded the train at Indianapolis, and succeeded, in finding a seat.-After the train had started, an old farmer, over seventy yeais of age, edged his way over to my seat, and asked . what I thought of the nomination, the result of the Conven- .. tion having j ust been received iit Indianapolis. I was well pleased. What did he think of-it? “Oh!-:—r” (very . strong language for a patriarch on his way to a campmeeting). He wanted Grant. ’ “ But,” said he, “ I kinder ex-. pected it. Thar wa’nt' no Cathlick about Grant, and the , hull Cathlick crowd, -Republican and Democrat, pulled dead against him; besides, he had a putty slick secret crowd workin’ agin him; they wuz them-------- [adjective] Jis-iBita!"	.
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.	ay
“Doubtless,” said a prominent Eastern journalist, “there are many devout Methodists who are ready to believe that Bob Ingersoll is a Jesuit in disguise, going about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour.”
There are two elements existing in the United Slates which the Jesuits will certainly destroy, if they are eiven time, and they are: A'heism (so ca'led) and bigoted Ignorance. And for this purpose they will use their very adversaries as their tools.	Exlex.
Rural Happiness.
Of all the various changes which seem to be allotted to man in his journey through life, perhaps there is none which contrasts so widely as the transition from city to country life. For one raised in and accustomed to the rush, bustle, vim and helter-skelter which are necessary to the maintenance of the one, he fails to see how the rough-and-ready, even-tenor peasant can manage to get along in the other, and be so unencumbered by all the solicitudes and perplexities incident upon metropolitan life. Neither can he realize any of those spontaneous rural attractions, in which the rustic sees so many endearing attachments. After he is a resident of those once to him apparently dismal scenes of barren splendor—“ the bluffs and plains, the woods and valleys,” which constitute a country landscape—he becomes convinced of their having latent charms to furnish a tranquil home for the man of toil, and a tendency to infuse guileless habits of rural mirtn and manners into the minds of his youthful family. He soon discovers that from the base of those rugged rocks fountains of crystal water gush, which soon form into a purling brook, roving its way into the bosom of some sp icioiis meadow, or neighboring pasture, to supply the wants of the grazing herd, and increase the pleasures of the hopeful angler. He soon discovers also that those dismal-looking woods contribute no small share to the requirements of domestic comfort both.for man and beast.
It may be that the “ eye ” of the metropolitan finds momentary enjoyment in gazing upon the transitory and lavish luxury and gaudy decorations of a city; her towering spiresand pondrous domes, her mijastic public buildings and palatial residences, where haughty pomp and cumbrous wealth repose in the lap of luxury, and in which he can have no share; still those are enervating, and, like all other voluptuous attractions, soon lose their beauty in their familiarity. Not so with the varying scenery of country life in its periodical evolutions; for no sooner has the beautiful snow—the emblem of virginal purity—taken Its departure than its place is taken by a more fructifying guest—the lovely spring, the prolific source of pleuty» whose first care seems to be in clothing the nakedness of Mother Eirth with robes of green, decked with an embroidery of smiling and fragrant vegetation. No sooner does the wintry blast lull its murmurings through the dreary woods than they begin to bud and bloom in lavish foliage,'which invites the feathered songsters home to hold a meeting and send forth greetings to the welcome, warm sunshine.
How appropriate and expressive is that verse in Gray’s Elegy in describing rural life:
“The curfew tolls the knell of parting day, The lowing herd comes straggling o’er the lea,
The plowman homeward wends his cheery way, ■ And leaves the world to darkness, and to me.” -
Yes, indeed; he leaves the world—the crowded, treacherous, infectious metropolitan world—not only to the dark shades of night, but to the darker deeds committed and secreted under its dismal folds; deeds to which the rustic is happily a stranger. And what is there on earth so illustrative of a celestial paradise as the gorgeous display of a golden harvest; fields of waving grain, fields of blooming esculents, and fields of verdant corn, towering and tas* selling, all vieing in splendor as they bask in brilliancy under the dazzling rays of an evening’s sunset. While the grateful husbandman reclines in a cosy shade, admiring the bounties of nature, and renders the homage of gratitude to nature’s G >d, his young orchard is just in bearing, and he thinks he can see in the rosy tinge of the fruit the ruddy glow on the cheeks of his growing family as they bloom into miturity. Hts poultry are sauntering about the yard; and he sees here and there a matron hen scratching away at something to which she soon gathers her little brood, who partake of the treasure found, thereby giving us an instinctive definition of miternal care and parental obligations even among the lower grades of creation;-and worthy of imitation by a good many of the higher order of human beings. The piercing screams ot the railroad whistle, or the perpetual ding-dong of the warning bell break not the silence of the rustic’s peaceful slumbers; nor does the ominous dirge of the fire-alarm startle him up in terror, lest perchance it may be his own or some of his friends’ homes which are becoming a prey to the devouring flames—an everyday occurrence in city life.
The polished, plausible face, and the accomplished but deceitful smile of the hypocritical city sharper would sit but very clumsily on the weather-beaten countenance of the tiller of the soil. Neither could he be induced to falsify or contort his features into the corrugated shape which the face of the “rigidly righteous” assume in the walks of city life. He prelers to be just what he is, and what he might easily be taken for—a child of nature, an employee in nature’s granary, and an unassuming type of the noblest work of God.	T. D.‘
The Alpine Robbers.
During the wars of the first Napoleon a hideous-looking, jet-black Ethiopean minstrel, from New Orleans, deserted -from a U. S. ship of war at Havre, France, and joined a French regiment as a trumpeter. After a fiercely-contested battle near the Alps, he and a captain of dragoons found themselves cut off fiom their regiments and lost in the mountain fastnesses. After many hair-breadth escapes fn m wild beasts and yawning precipices, they at length discovered an old deserted pagan temple, in one end of which they laid down to rest their weary limbs on a large pile of straw—never once dreaming it to be the favorite haunt of a ferocious gang of robbers, who were the terror of all the peaceful denizens of the smiling valleys below. The bandits, laden with rich booty, arrived in due time, kindled a rousing fire at the-other end of the temple of the defunct gods, wherewith to cook a repast that kings might envy. Tne jolly son of sunny France whispered in Sambo’s ear that, as these wild sons of the forest never had the pleasure of beholding a col
148
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ored gentleman during the checkered course of their eventful lives, it he were boldly io advance towards them, blowing his terrible trumpet with all the force of his huge lengs. and favoring them at the same tune with a bird's-eye view of bis ihouiblul of ivory dentals, they would surely take him for the veritable king of the internal regions, and fly lor their lives.
While awaiting the result of the culinary manipulations, ihe bandits imbibed long and deep potations, the effects of which soon caused them to quirrel over the division of ihe immense booty accumulated during the past year. One of them, who seemed to have still retained a soft corner in his heart accessible to thi- fear of God and eternal punisnments hereafter, finding to his cost, after all that orators have said to the contrary, that there was no honor among thieves, exclaimed in a paroxysm of uncontrolled rage: “I hope the blackest demon from the bott< ml<-ss pit will come and carry y>u all off to the realms of Pluio, where you are sure to go sooner or later.” “Now is your time,” said the j>vial captain, nudging Sambo; “now or never.” The. negro, who was a very tall and athletic fellow, ru«hed towards them, grinning terribly, and blowing his trumpe’ long and loud enough to shake the everlasting Alps io their very foundation, he exclaimed: “Arise ye dead and come to judgment! ”
All the surrounding cliffs and crags re-echoed his stentorian blasts so faithfully, that the trembling r bbers imagined there were ten thousand legions from the infernal regions come to carry them off body and soul. Thinking the day of doom had at last arrived in good earnest, with one loud scream they fled in every diieclion. leaving our heroes the sole monarchs of all they surveyed, and at full liberty to rule the roast. .
“Winged wth their fears, on foot the robbers fly, Their sieeds too distant, and the foe too nigh.”
Taking as much of the vast treasure as they could carry in two lea'her bags, our heroes also fled and gained their camp in due lime. Napoleon laughed heartily at the recital of their romaniic adventure, and relaxing his warlike countenance, and striking the table with his clenched fist, exclaimed: “Truth is often stranger than fiction.” Napoleon gave the humorous captain an honorable dis « charge, and promoted Sambo to be his barber-in chief, with the rank and pay of a staff <ffijer. Afier the death of his royal master, on St. Helena's inhospitable shores, he returned to L 'usiana, where he purchasi d a valuable plantation, on which he lived in great splendor to the good old age nf 110 years. One of his lit eal ebony descendant now sits in Congress, and was heard to blow a pretty loua trumpet during our late Presidential election. J. M.
Art, Music and Literature.
—	C;
—Rubenstein, one of the world’s greatest pianists, is about to revisit America.
—Evening Mailt “Beaconsfield is now charged with plagiarizing fiom Buike. This is a proof of Buike’s excellence and of Beaconsfield’s good taste.”
—Some time ago Miss Hestor Parker, of Bangor, Me., pressed a number of very pretty autumn leaves and sent them to the Queen of Spain at Madrid. Recently Miss Parker got an autograph letter from the Queen, acknowl edging the receipt of the leaves.
—Before Fanny Fern married James Parton, she wrote in a description of Broadway: “Here comes James Par ton, who doesn’t believe in the devil.” George D. Pren ice of the Louisville Journal, copied it. and addtd: “Ah! Fanny, that was before he was married; are you sure thai he don’t believe in the devil now?”
—The Cincinnati College of Music publishes an official announcement of a week of opera to be given Frbi nary next under its auspices, at the Music-Hall, on a scale of magnificence not possible in any theatre in this count rv The Maph-son troupe, reinforced with a chorus of 300 from the May festival chorus of this city, and with an
orchestra of 100, are the forces. The operas chosen are “Moses in Egypt,” “Lohengrin.” “Fidelia.” “Mtfis-tofele,” and “The Magic Flute.” The Music Hall is to be filled with temporary proscenium and scenery.
—An interesting manuscript has recently been discovered in the library of the city of Treves, Rhenish Prussia. It is a fragment of an ancient French poem, the author whereof, judging from the notes at the foot of the t< x', was Richard Cosur de Lion, Kmg of E igland. This king, it is well known, being ca-t by a tempest-upon the shores of Dilmatia when returning from the Holy Land, was held a close prisoner by the Emperor Henry IV, at Mainz, at Worms, and finally in the Cistle of Trifels, where he was discovered by his favorite minstrel Blondel. During his captivity in Germany he composed this poem, which bears tbe title “Saint Nonna and her son, Saint Devy.”
—Cologne Cathedral, which has just been completed after centuries of labor, is one of the largest and loftiest buildings m the world. For the past sixty y<ars the woik has bten carried on with but little iniermission, tbe cost being met by both public and private contributions; and a German architectural journal has ascertained that the aggregate amount expend> d within this period Is eighteen millions of marks, or about $5 400,000. When to this is added the money contnbuttd during past centuries, and “notably what h-is been sunk in the colossal foundations and spent in purchasing various necessary parcels of ground,” it appears that the Cathedral, as it now stands, ■ epresents about forty millions of marks, or $12 000,000.
—After twenty-one centuries the remains of the 800 voung Thebans, formerly the “Sacred Battalion,” who fell at the terrible hattie of Chernnea. have been dug up. During the summer, excavations have been made around the gi gantic memorial lion which was placed in the centre of the fi-ld to commemorate the deeds of heroism of that dark day. A wall, 25 yards in length and 15 yards in breadth. was first found beneath the soil. Within thi* enclosure, at a deptli of four yards, lay the bones of 185 Thebans, resting side by side, ranged in forty rows, each in the altitude in which he had died. Seven such rows have been found. They are so placed that the heads of those . of the second rank repose at the feet of the fir-t. All bear the maiks of the blows which caused their death. One of them had bnth thighs pierced by thrusts of the spear; ■mother bad his jaw-bone broken and splintered; a third has his skull tetribly hacked ; a fourth, whose head is wonderfully well preserved, has his mouth still wide open, as if he br< athed. This last will be conveyed to the Museum of Antiquities at Athens. What is especially .noticeable about it is that the jaws possess every tooth in per-tect order. No weapons have been found.
—Petitions were last session sent up to Congress praying that the Congressional Record be published in newspaper form, and distributed to every family in tbe United States free of charge. Tbe ol j -cl of this, of course, is to . supplant ihe cheap, sensational literature ot the day. by luinisbing a solid and substantial literature at cheaper . rates. It is to substitute tbe Record 'for tbe Seaside and Fireside Libraries;. to put Buncombe in the stead of Beadle, and make legislation supersede literature. The real thing is, howevi r, to give Congressmen an opportu- : oity to air themselves before the nation. Of course it will be an expensive business to print and distribute daily <even or eight million copies of a quarto paper, averaging fitly pages, double column; but that does not matter so ihe dear people get their reading for nothing. The Record is, as a rule, about as pleasant reading as Webster’s Unabridged Die ion ary, ot which an old lady said that it was a very nice, bonk, only the stories were too short. But'the rouble is, that this cheap circulation of the Record is hkily to be cosily reading to the people after all. Be foie it can be made fimily reading and fit for tbe fireside and for children, it must be expui gated, or itscontents changed. To effect this, our Congressmen will have to be changed first, and it will cost the people less to buy as many Records as they may need at a fair price than to find, elect, and keep up to their work a class of Congtessmen capable of supplying the entire community with select family reading.—Baltimore Sun. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
149
Scientific Notes.
—The monster python which is kept alive in the Antwerp Museum having had infl imation of the jaw, a Belgian doctor volunteered to enter its cage in order to cure it: but the brute attempted to suffocate the poor doctor, who was glad to escape with his life.
—Prof. J. Trowbridge, in investigating with telephones connected to earth-plates the flow of return currents through “earth,” fouud that at a mile from the Harvard College Observatory the time signals of the observatory clock could be heard by merely tapping the earth at points fifty feet apart.
—An important discovery has just been made at Bath, England, in the shape cf a periect Roman bath, some eighty feet long and forty feet wide, the whole of the interior being lined with lead, three-quarters of an inch in thick ness; the bath is some thirty feet below the level of the present surface. "
—M. Bmtigny has called attention to the remarkable powers of resistance against chemical agents possessed by insects. Having put a common fly into the Ive of potaeh, he found it in the best condition on the next day. He also found that weevils, imprisoned for a considerable time in a flask containing caustic stone and coriander seed, prospered,- multiplied, and lived as long as the seed lasted.
—The genealogical tables of the reigning and other princely families of Europe have of late been examined to determine the mean duration of the life of a generation of the.human race. The life of princes does not appear to be anything, if at all, longer than that of the majority of other people, for the data which the tables presented gave a period of thirty years as the mean limit of a generation.
—At the meeting of the French Academy of Sciences on Oct. 4, M. Perrier gave an interesting summary of the determinations of longitudes, laiitud-'s, and azimuths in Africa during the years 1877 and 1878. In the exchange of signals he found it was possible to calculate the mean retardation of the transmission of a signal along an aerial conductor from chronograph to chronograph for distances between 414 and 1,236 kilometres. The mean velocity of propagation was found to be about 40 000 kilomS res. At this rate an electric signal would go around the earth in a second.
—A Portsmouth (N. H.) has an aquarium which contained an alligator, as well as a number of gold-fn-h, crawfish, and a trout weighing three-quarters of a pound: but of late all but the alltga’or have disappeared. List Friday evening the thief was dicovered, and found to be a large rat that bad worked his way into the house through the drainpipe. A loud rat-squealing and alligator-croaking was heard, and the rat was found a dozen feet from the aquarium, where he had succeeded in carrying the young alligator up and down shelves filled with flower pnts and plants. The rat was evidently surprised at the fighting and noisy qualities of this new kind of fish, but he wou:d probably have been the victor had he not been discovered and clubbed. The alligator still lives, and is apparently not much the worse for the loss of blood and a lew pieces of his tough hide.
Exchanges.
—The Niagara Index has a witty local editor and the local columns of that piper are the raciest—taken all in all—of any that we have seen.	-
—The editorial board of The Chronide got out a four-page extra on the 6ih, to give an early report of the football game betwten the Michigan University team and that of the University of Toronto.' Game won by Michigan University by one goal and a touch-down in two innings of 45 minutes each.
—The Waisenfreund, which comes to us weekly from Columbus, Onio, is an ably-ediled weekly of eight pages. It gives a resume of the political and ecclesiastical news of the week, articles on different topics containing useful knowledge, abort and interesting stories, and answers al
most anv question that may be put to it. Besides its .literal y merit, an additional recommendation is the tact that the profits accruing from the publica ion are giv< n by the editor to the support of an orphan asylum under his charge. The Waisenfreund has thus a double claim upon the patronage of every German-reading family.
—The Catholic Columbian, of Columbus, Ohio, is an excellent diocesan paprr. R< v. D. A. Clatke of (’70) is the iditor, and his pungent paragraphs mike the editorial pages very attractive. We renumber reading, some time ago, of an editor who apologized for the lengthy articles in his paper that weik, saji'g that he had been too much occupied with business affairs to write shorter ones. Taking this case as an example, Rev Father Clarke would take a long time to write up the matter for his piper, for there is nothing loose about it. His paragraphs are more generally copied than those of any other editor that we know of. When Rev. Fai her Clatke was a student here, he was one of the most zealous contributors to the SCHOLASTIC, and was for a while on the editorial corps of thia paper.
—The editors of th® Notre Dame Scholastic certainly deserve credit for industry. The anioimt of leading matter iheysend us weekly is simply marvellous. It i-n’t sprea i thin either, but just crowd>-d full and runnmg over; not even ihe average amount of auienisenients, so meedy are they of room. If you could connive io infuse a iritle more fro’liiness into jour coiunn.s, mends, yours would be a model college paper.—Amherst Student.
The last sentence awakens us to an acute sense of our surroundings—cut off, as we are, from all bases of supply; not a lager saloon within two miles of us, and the nearest beer brewery a mile and a half distant! Can’t raise froth with pies, sweet cider, apples, and such like, nohow! We may fume and fret, but it is useless to talk about it, so weill make a virtue of necessity. All the beautiful landscape around Noire Dame wants, to reach the climax, is a beer brewery, with it- tall chimney to guide the wayfarer, and its frothy stock to exchange for the students’ nickels; but we surmise that the day that will see it is far distant.
—The Harvard Daily Echo of the 10lh has some passing commems in a leading editorial that show the progressive spirit of the editors. O d-time usages at college, no matter how puerile or barbarous they may be, or how ill in keeping with their modern surroundings, have often, nevertheless, a deep hold on the mind of those who should be able to judge belter of them, and it bespeaks no little courage to move for their abolition. Referring to there-cenilv inaugurated electives al Harvaid, and voluntary recitations given by som-- of the lower classes, the editor of the Echo gives a caustic cut to those “humitous, rather childish practices” that have prevailed and still do prevail in many umversiues and colleges. He rejoices that at Harvard most of them have fallen into disuse. “The men of the higher classes have first given them up, and finally they have come to be considered beneath the dignity of the lower classmen.”
—The Crimson of Nov. 12th g;ves, together with some interesting particulars, the name- of the participants in the forthcoming Greek play, (Ed>pua Tyrannus. to be given by the students of Haivard University in Sanders’ Theatie next spring. The Crimson thinks the play cannot take place before May, but when it is given u will be repeated a sufficient number of times for a>I who care to see it to Have an opportunity of doing so. It is thought that from the interest which the announcement has excited, it will attract not a few strangers tn Cambridge. Preparations are already being made. Prof. While has Undertaken the general direction of the play, the details being attended to by an able c >rps of gentlemen—namely, Prof. Paine, for the music; Profs. Goodwin and N uton, the costumes; Prof. Allen, the dancing; Mr. John Wheeler, siage action; Mr. Riddle, ihe training of the acior-c Mr. Dyer has charge of the pronunciation, to which especial attention is to be given, and in accordance wuh his own prac-nceihe Greek tquivalent to ei will be pronounced as in eight; eu, as in the Spanish word dtuda (boih vowels sounded, but coalesced); u, as the French u; zeta, as da (soft).
—Tue Scientific American of last week contains two full page illustrations of Captain Eada’ proposed railway
150
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
for transporting ships with their cargo across continents. Captain Eads claims by his plan to be able to take loaded ships of the largest tonnage from one ocean to the other across the Isthmus of Panama, as readily as can be done by a canal after the Lesseps plan, and at a much less cost for engineering c-instruction. Tne project is certainly-bold and ingenious.and the projector anticipates no scrious-d flicul'ies in carrying forward his ent< rprise. The engrav-ihgs re erred to in the Scientific American show the proposed construction of not only the railroad, but the appliances fnr transferring the ships from the water to the railIn addition to the large number of engravings, illustrative of engineering works, inventions and new discoveries which appear weekly, the Scientific American h s, during the past year, devoted considerable space to illustrating and describing leading establishments devoted to different manufacturing industries. This feature has added very much to the attractiveness and usefulness of the piper. More than fifty of the most important industrial establishments of our country have been illustrated, and the processes of the diff rent manufactures described in its columns. The Scientific American has been published for mnr«* than thirty tour years by Munn & Co., 37 Park R >w, Nt., and has attained a larger weekly circula'inn than all similar papers published in the country. The puo-Jishera assure the public that they have not printed less than 60.000 copies a week for several months.
■—The exchange editor of The Cornell Era is still, we see, actively encaged in hunting up and dissecting foreign ronis, to make an English hash for his department of the paper. It seem« be has met with poor success of late. In the issue nt the Era for the 12 h inst., he publishes about twn columns and a half of matter, nearly all of which— eight lines only excepted—is the pn duct of his industrious little scissors or penknife. The eight lines are the editor’s own, and of course this is where the hash comes in. It is very poor hash, ton—only one “root” being chopped into it. It is at the edge of the dish—(being ihe first word in the first line)—and as we spoon it out and analyze it, we discover that it is a French “root”—“Aprop-.s"; but the preposition “of,” which follows it, is dpiopos de bottes. As in making a hash it i- necessary to know what roots will help tn please the palate, so in writing, one of the first qualifications is the ability to choose one’s preno sitinns, and until the exchange editor of The Cornell Era is able to dn this we would advise him io lay aside his little pen and betake himself to the exclusive use of the penknife and scissors. . He cannot stretch the hide of that little preposition far enough to cover the space intervening between it and the word apropos; and even if he could, they would not coalesce. And vet this man, who cannot write even fair English, threatens to write an obit for “the whole board of the Notre Dame Scholastic''! Well, if that isn’t “cheek.” or brazen impudence, we don’t know what to call it. He has been thus emboldened by a paragraph that some time ago appeared tn a new college paper, in Canada, The 'Varsity by name, which when three weeks old set itself up as a dictator to the college press, and, in schoolboy simplicity, aimed at bec-ming “the h-st university paper in America,” but which, as the Chronicle justly remarked, with quiet dignity, “will have to make some pretty long s’rides before it shall be able to gain that high position.” Tuts editor of The ’ Varsity, in his third number, attacked us for publishing the Rolls of H nor and Ciass Honors, but we conditioned him . in logic and have not beard from him since, although three weeks have elapsed. Now the exchange editor of The Cornell Era takes ,up the hatchet dropped by the 'Var sity's editor, and when he has finished an obit, to his liking he no doubt in'end* to chop off the heads of “the whole board of the Notre Dame Scholastic.” He is welcome to try it, but he will have to pnne Himself a much better man in athletics than at the pen it be does not fail, and have bis own head ch< pped off. In which esse we will give, him the gratuitous use of the cbituaiy he intended lor us.	.
—The exchange editor of The Princetonian thinks the Scholastic “ a strange admixture of solid sense and puerile nonsense,” and in this we believe he is not far wrong. Tois is only what might be expected of young people, most of whom have never seen their thoughts jo print
except in the Scholastic, and seldom there. “The literary articles,” continues the Princeton critic, “as a rule, are mature, and in cases where doctrinal points are discussed show a care, both as to logic and style, to which young writers seldom attain.” This leads to the doub.ful query as to “whether the good fathers who have the insolution in charge, also keep a watchful eye upon the journalistic attempts of its students.” We do not know to a certainty; but. we think not; at least, as a rule, contributions for the Scholastic are not revised by those in the faculty who are priest--. There may be exceptions, when a writer wishes to have his contribution revised, as a favor. “ The editorials,” continues the reviewer, “ are juvenile.” This, again, is but a natural consequence of youth in a writer; and as juvenility is not so great a fault after all—if it be a fault—we think our editorial writers get off cheap; many an editorial writer has had a much harder epithet pitched at his devoted head. The Princeton critic makes too much, however, of some remarks in our editorial columns in regard to “smoking on the sly,” and thinks the editor goes too far for manly dignity in saying that a boy of principle will not do such things. Surely an old boy can advise a younger one not to do things that will get him into trouble. Tnercmaiks in question were intended for the small boys in the preparatory school, where smoking is forbidden and punished, and not for the larger ones, wno are permitted to smoke. The editor also labors under a mistake when he thinks that violation of a college rule, “no matter of what nature it may be,” is looked upon as a sin here, and that implicit confidence in the words of an instructor is essential to one’s continuing a member of the College. This is not the case. Things here have not got to that pass, we are glad to say. As to the editorials, it is not a singular fact that opinions on the same sul ject often vary. Here, for instance, is what the «xchange editor of the College Journal; Milton, Wis., thinks of one of them:
“Whoever enters our sanctum and chances to pick up the Notre .Dame Scholastic invariably has a good woid for it. In the mam, we agree with the general verdict. However, its literary department is devoted too much to discussions upon subjects of religious differences. The editorial in the Scholastic of Oct. 16th upon discipline in c ollege, is admirable, botu in sentiment and diction.”
As to the religions sentiment permeating some of the articles in the Scholastic, it is a well known fact that Catholics, as a rule, are a buit for popular pr< judice, and for this very reason, perhaps, the better class of Catholic boys feel it incumbent, on them to put themselves in a position to defend themselves and give a good reason for the faith that is in them. If all non-Catholics were as mag-nanimons and liberal-minded as we believe ihe editors of The Princetonian to be, there would, very likely, appear less upon religious topics in our paper, as there would be no necessity lor it.
—We found the following editorial paragraph occupying a conspicuous place on the first page of The 'Varsity for October the 30 h, anJ laid it by until we would have the editor’s reply to ours of the 30>h arraigning the editor of that pip.-r for a false accusation against us, and tor u-ing bad logic in seeking to criminate us. Nearly three weeks have elapsed, and Ihe 'Varsity has not put in an appearance, although it purports to be a w ek'y. We defied the editor to pmve the point he had taken, and thus give at leas' the semblance of truth to the assertion he baa made against us. His prolonged delay, and the absence of this piper, is in our favor; we are naturally led to presume that ne louud himself bound by the chains of his own torging, and keeps his paper out of our way because he cannot confute our arguments. Here is the paragraph alluded to above; the 'Varsity printed it in Italics, but we spare the primer’s italic ca-e:	•
“ We again feel comnelled to C’ll attention to the prefectoria] attitude ui ibe '.No’.ie Dim: Scholastic’ The following is 'aken from the issue of October 21:— R-member the sound advice.given you on cuudev last by Rev. Fa her Walsh and you’ll (sici blush to even think --f doing what is p-ohibited by the dsciplinary regain- ' tions of th-; University.’ The circumstances under which Univer-ity and College papers are estaolished. p-oh bituf. of course, ea ab ished by SuKiente; theed.t irsfrom serniomz ng <.n infract: ns of discipline, a. o i-cipie is u re at stake, the glaring 'ioixtion of which demands lobe in-tint! v and aur-servedly condemned, and we eann-stly request the Un vers ty and < <>Uege. press m Canada and the United btates to jota with us in so,doing.”	’	’
Now, it looks very much as if the editor otThe'Vanity
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
UI
had, for the nonce, allowed a bilious or splenetic humor to cloud his judgment, for he talks at random and as if he know? not whereof he speaks. “We feel compelled,” etc As if what we said in regard to a matter of discipline in a college in the northern part of Indiana could have concerned our Canadian friend in the least. He loses sight of the fact that it is considered a virtue for people to mind their own business and avoid intermeddling in that of . others. “ The circum-tances under which University and
College papers are established,’’ he says, “prohibit (if, of course, established by s'udents) the editors from sermonizing on infractions of discipline.” Indeed! That is something new to us and as we are not in the habit of crediting vague rumois we would like the 'Varsity editor to tell us (1) when such prohibition was made or became a law; (2) by whom; and (3) to what i xtent we, as college editors, are bound to forego our judgment of circumstances, right or wrong, in obedience to it. If there be such a law (as we feel confident there is not) it is much more generallj’ honored in the breach than in the observance, f -r the editors of nearly all the best of our “University and College papers” have from time to time taken the liberty to admonish certain of their fellow-students when they thought that they deserved it, and when such admonition was called for by the general good of the college. The editor of The ’ Varsity would, therefore, at least show consistency by cmdemning in all what he so patrouizmaly condemns in us If he considers it “ prefectorial ” on our pait to urge attention to the advice given certain students by Vice-President Walsh on a certain occasion, w’e can only sav that he is at liberty to think of it just as lie pleases; we were right in doing so, and the weight of his mere opinion cannot make it wrong. It does noi in ike a particle of difference either way. We are old enough to judge for ourselves without going over to her majesty’s dominion of Canada for advice on a matter that concerns only ourselves and the College here. Furthermore, in regard to precedent, we are in excellent company, and as there is plenty of it we do not care whether our Canadian friend ‘if he be a friend) joins us or not. To c mfound the more his intermeddling in what he is pleased to consider our “ prefectorial altitude,” we need only cite a few quotations from some of the leading “ University and College papers” of the U S., which happen to beat hand. Beginning at random, what does the Canadian editor think oftbe following from the Harvard Crimson,of the 12th mst :
“It 1, to bi regretted that so foolish a habit as that of hurrying out of chapel was ever contrac’ed. It is irreverent, to say the least, not to w lit in perfect ord ir and decorum until the prayer is eat'r.ly .finished; such child sh lack of courtesy as is frequently displayed la chapet gives any sirmger wh > may happen to be present .n unfavorable impression o! the gi:d breeding of the studentWetriirt th it there will be no funh-T c Use of comp'aint on tti.s score; lor whatever bi our opinions as ti the advisability of ctmpilsory attendance at praters. every s-nsible person will seethe nece-tsi yof good order an i dignity in a hous > dedicated to religious uses "
Will the editor of Ihe 'Varsity make such a fool of himself as to assert that The Crimson did wrong in assuming a “ prefectorial alti'ude ” and publishing the foregoing? Or .the Amherst Student (Oct. 9) in publishing the following:
“Itought to c -m need itself to every student that the oroper w y to conduct himself at the morning devotional exercises is with the propriety due to the occasion. We hope that, the slight dimurbance .which occurred a few mornings sinci st the chapel will not ber_-peated ”	'
Or TAe Brunonian (Oclob'r the 16 h), the following:
“Nobody is inclined to defend the thoughtless and inexcusable action which a few students semi to have performed on the bad grounds, the other night. The prompt action of the college, as a body in cond mning the performance, ought to be sufficient to remo’. e any blame which might otherwise come upon us. The f iculty will doubtless look at the ma ter in this wiv. and be inclined to censure .only the known few who participated." etc.
Or The University (Dec. 12,1879) the following:
“ It seems as if a few members of the law department have mistaken the object of the lecture room, by endeavoring to turn it into a pantomime show. Every man must remember that the same 'rules <>f order and conduct should be observed Inihe lecture as in the .drawing-room ; since a man m making a disturbance, and thereby becoming a nuisance, not only cheats himself of the benefit of the lecture, but also deprives every other man of the privilege of enjoying the recitation. But on the other hand, however great may be the annoyance or cause of provocation, the lecture room is no place to avenge private wrongs and grievances, least of all to depart from those rules of action which characterize a gentleman under any circumstances. We must bear in mind that on entering .a lecture room we give up a part of that freedom of utterance and action which is allowed In a state of nature, for the privilege of attending the recitation. If a man cannot abstain from that free
dom of action and utterance which Is unbecoming a gentleman, through respect for himself, let him at least endeavor to do so out of respect for the professor lecturing, for his classmates, and the la ties who are present attending the 1-c’ure. We know this-is the expression of an nigh-mmded g-ntlemen in the department. .We trust it is also that of eveiy man in the Univer-ity.”
In a back number of the Ricine College Mercury we find the following:	' ”
“Too often does this become a point of sneclal study, as when the student thinks the most effectual mode of asserting his own importance is t > assume a “ don’t -care-tor-anvbody ” air at ah times, to continually make disturbances in the buildings, and in g-nenu to gratifv his dt-sire of fun (wntch with him generally means love of self-assertion and conceit,, by making all around him uncomfortable.”	•
And in The Amherst Student, for Sept. 25th:
“ Hereafter when the President addresses us as “young gentlemen of Amherst College.” we shall t-pl that it means som*-thing, that we have emerged from knee breeches and kilts, that the birch rod perio i is passed, and that we are men with the privileges and responsibilities of men. The old relation of t- acher and taught as one of master and slave, has cea-ed to place its titantic obstacles in tl:e wav of the pleasant relations which ought to e'ist between those who are associated m a common search for truth We trust that the good order and dignity of behavior on the part of the students during the coming year may be such as crown with wi-mistahable success a plan which is as yet but an experiment. (Italics ours E. S) The old system had its virtues no less than us faults. But it has passed into its dotage. ‘ Tae King is dead. Long live the King 1 ’ ”
We think these quotations should be enough to convince the 'Varsity man of the frame of mind in which he penned his italicized paragraph, if he is in any doubt about it. Meantime, assuring him that we think we are able to take care of ourselves and manage our own affairs without his assistance, and, furthermore, to help him to do away with some ridiculous features in his paper, which are prominent, but which we had discreetly and charitably passed without comment, we await his rejoinder to our reply of the 30th, on another subject, as we are anxious to see how he can make out that two and two make five.
College Gossip.
—Olivet College has 180 students.
—Virginia University has.fifteen secret societies.
—Columbia College has conferred the degree of LL. D. upon General Di Cesnola.
—The Harvard Echo is said to-have a circulat on of 3,200 a we k. Not bad for a college daily.
—The Jesuit College at Rome possesses the finest collection of numismatics in the world.—Catholic Universe.
—Tone student is walking with Distinguished Gent., whom he desires to impress with his own importance.
—The Yale Lit. offers a gold medal, valued at twenty-five dollars, for the best essay by an undergraduate subscriber.
—Men often jump at conclusions, so do dogs.. One jumped at the conclusion of a Senior recently, and scared him not a little.—Ex.
—The new incumbent of the chair of Latin at Yale college, Professor Tracy Peck wants the Roman system of pronouncing Latin adopted there, and it will probably be done, beginning with the next class.
—“ How do you pronounce s-t-i-n-g-y ?” Professor Stearns asked the young gentleman nearest the foot of the clas’. Ami a smart bad boy stood up and said it depended a good deal whether the word applied to a man or a bee. Go to the head, young fellow.
—The Philadelphia Standard, announces the death in that city, on the 22J ult., of Cnarles H. Budd, M. D., Professor of Natural History in Girard College, and previously Professor of Chemistry and the Natural Sciences at Franklin-Marshal College, Pa. The Professor was a man of high intellectual and moral qualities, a convert, and a devoted Catholic.
—Amid the political excitement manifested at other colleges, Notre Dame, to judge from her paper the Scholastic, is as much immersed m religious topics as ever.—College Mercury. We expect to get enough of politics after leaving’college, whether we wish it or not, therefore we don’t worry ourselves about politics now. But the election is over and the.country safe, all the same.
162
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
iinu
Notre Dame, November 20, 1SSO.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fouktbenth year ot its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate lor the favor and support oi the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a herning hand.
THE NOIRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence iu class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Ha sabscrner falls to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may bare missed a number, or numbers and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying tor them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the othce oi publication, as, usually, but tew copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—“Though dark the present hour may seem With sorrow, care and strife,
Though gladness may not shed a beam Upon our tky of life.
Yet fear not—for amid the gloom One hope is ever ours—
That faith may yet our life illume And bring us brighter hours.”
What noble sentiments are contained in these few lines! They lay down a golden rule of life, adapted to men of every nation and clime under Heaven’s beautiful firmament. For where is the man on the broad sea of life that does not meet with terrific storms on its changeful bosom ? Wnat man has ever lived who did not, at some stage or other ot his exigence, meet with reverses, misfortunes and embarrassments of some description or other, -which almost plunged him into despair, by causing him to lose courage and seif-confidence ? R.ad the lives ot the greatest heroes, in either the spiritual or temporal order, . at any period of the world’s existence, and you will . find that they all had their share of sorrow, care, and strife; hours, when “ gladness did not shed a beam upon • their sky of file”; days, when all was gloomy and darksome; months—yea, years—when their very souls were stirred with the remembrance of deep, burning wrongs; or With disappointed hopes; desires, unattainable; sorrows, unassuaged; anxiety, and afflictions of every description. Yes: ail of us have, and must of necessity have, our days of gloom. Man, created for something greater and nobler than a mere existence, cannot be satisfied with all the . honors and distinctions which the world may bestow upon him; .they are transitory, evanescent. Man, noblest of . God’s creatures, endowed with spiritual immortality, may - be surrounded by all the pomp, splendor and magnificence
which the world is potent to bestow upon Jhim, and yet he is not satisfied; he longs for something more. What more ? has he not everything which the world can give ? Yes: but there is yet a void; there is still an inexplicable longing after something else, something higher. Inexplicable? No: we retract the word. This unsatisfied desire is but that of the soul, which was not created for earth —Heaven is its destiny. ’Tis this longing of the spirit for the possession of its desire which makes man discontented with the world’s most flattering honors, and makes “dark the present hour." 'Tis in that dark hour that we must “fear not, for amid the gloom, one hope is ever ours.” What’ “hope” is ours? That brighest, holiest, purest of all hopes—that given us by Faith. In this hope is the balm for all our wounds. In it are found consolation, peace, happiness. ’Tis the hope, the only hope, we have that, no matter how fierce may be the winds that tempest-toss our fragile bark; no matter how loud the thunders crash from the lightning clouds, which send forth their forked messengers of death and destruction ; though our ship’s masts may be gone, and her timbers moan, there still remains that never-dying hope to cheer us on, to raise our drooping spirits, to calm our terrified and troubled souls,—that hope, that hope of faith, which “may yet our life illume and bring us brighter hours.’’
—There has recently been established a new association under the name of Society for Political Education, nonpartisan in its character, and, in the best sense, national in its scope. The Society is to be managed by an executive committee of twenty-five members, selected from dif-ferent sections of the United States, many of them being experts in different departments of the study of social and political science. A singular feature of its organization is that it has no president, and thus avoids the risk of having its aims confounded with the idiosyncrasies of any individual chosen for its head. The correspondence of the Society is to be divided among five secretaries, one each for the East, including the Middle States, the Northwest, the Southeast, the Southwest, and the Pacific slope. Its executive committee, which is not yet filled up, now comprises Prof. W. G. Sumner, of Yale College, New Haven; Hon. David A. Wells, of Norwich, Conn.; Charles Francis Adams, Jr., of Boston, Mass.; Geo. S. Coe, Horace White, Geo. Haven Putnam, R. R. Bowker, E. M. Shepard and R. L. Dugdale, of New York city; Franklin MacVeagh and M. L. Scudder, Jr., of Chicago, Ill.; Gen. Bradley-T. Janson, of R chmond, Va.; Hon. John H. Ames, of Lincoln, Nebraska; A. Sydney Biddle, of Philadephia, Pa.; A. Mitchell, of New Orleans, La.; Geo. Mason, of Galveston, Texas; and Peter Hamilton of Mobile, Ala.
The Society has selected as a course of reading for the first year Norhoff’s “Politics for Young Americans,” Prof. Perry’s “Introduction to Political Economy,” Johnson’s “ History of American Politics,” and McAdam’s “ Alphabet in Finance." These volumes will be issued in a cheap edition, costing only $3.00, specially published for the Society as a Library of Political Education, boxed in sets with uniform binding, and bearing the name of the Society on the cover. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, of New York, and Johnson, McClurg & Co., of Chicago, will be the publishing agents. Next year another set of books will be selected, and it is planned to extend the Library gradually according to the growth of the Society, until attention
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
158
shall have been given to'the whole range of subjects comprised under Social Science. In addition to the Library, a series of tracts are to be published on economic and political subjects including among the earlier ones “ What is a Bank?” by Edward Atkinson, of Boston,and Turgot’s celebrated essay “On the Creation and Distribution of Wealth.” This latter work, by the great finance minister of Louis XVI, although first published in 1766, and acknowledged to be one of the most valuable contributions ever made to economic literature, has never been published in the United States, and, so far as known, only once translated and published in the English language, and then most imperfectly, in a pamphlet, which appeared in London at the commencement of the present century.
The valuable pamphlets of the Honest Money League of the Northwest, which did such strong service for the country during.its activity, will be continued, including a revision of Mr. Thos. M. Nichol’s effective pamphlet on “ Honest Money.” It is proposed also to issue lists, recommending desirable courses ot reading on economic and political subjects. Two such are now ready: a list of books on political economy and political science, recommended by Prof. Sumner, of Yale, and another on the Constitution of the United States, prepared by W. E. Foster, Librarian of the Providence Public Library.
There are two classes of membership: Active and Cooperating. Active members are such persons as will pledge themselves to read the books recommended by the Society for the official year and included in its Library of Political Education, and will pay an annual fee of 50 cents (which may be forwarded in postage stamps). Any person may become a CoOperating Member on the annual payment of $5.00 cr more, which shall entitle such members to receive all the tracts published by the Society. There are no other conditions or obligation of membership. The number of tracts to be published annually will • depend chiefly on the amount of subscriptions received. It is also desired to establish a fund for furthering the general work of the Society, and for facilitating the placing of the above books and kindred literature in public and school libraries.
Members of the Society will, in addition to receiving without charge the tracts issued each year under the direction ot the executive committee and the above specified recommendations of courses of reading, have the advantage of coming into direct communication with a body ot experts who will aid them in selecting judiciously from the mass ot books which issue yearly from the press, and will enable them to obtain certain classes of books at lower rates than if bought singly of the booksellers. Those in terested, or who can interest others in the work, are invited to communicate with R. L. Dugdale, Secretary for the East and Acting Treasurer, 79 Fourth Avenue, New York, or M L. Scudder, Jr., Secretary for the Northwest, 40, Portland Block, Chicago, Ill.
’ . —That the Minim Department should have an oppor tunity of showing their perfect equality—moral, and social—with the Juniors and Seniors, their kind prefect, Bro. Amandus, C. S. C., deemed it necessary for the social reputation of his department—its moral and intellectual being unquestionable—to give a gala day to his young and interesting charges. For the Juniors, not long since, ex-cursionized to Bertrand; and the happy, merry time they
had on that occasion was duly recorded in these columns. The Seniors, too, visited Mishawaka last week—and, of course, enjoyed themselves immensely, as will be evident to anyone examining our local columns. The Minims believe that they who laugh last, laugh best; and by the same token they believe that they who excursionize last, excursionize best—have the best time. They, therefore, filled with this idea, waited until last Sunday, when they too had. their day. The objective point was no less a famously favorite spot than the St. Joe Farm. When the Minims go out for a day’s enjoyment, they go out in style—that is, they emploj-the best horseflesh for conveying purposes that can be had; differing, in this respect, from their larger confreres, who always walk, alleging in excuse that they are bene-fitted physically, at least, from the exercise afforded them in walking ten or fifteen miles.
While the Minims are as particular, and perhaps even more so than their “big brothers,” in taking the proper amount of physical training at the proper time, still they believe that there are exceptional occasions when this important affair may be overlooked, and ease and comfort taken as substitutes. Last Sunday morning was an occasion of this kind; and therefore was it that at eight o’clock on the same day five double teams drew up in front of the University, and in a few minutes were freighted with as merry, joyful, noisy, but orderly, a crowd of young boys as one would wish to see. In a short time the drivers cracked their whips and away sped the noble steeds with their youthful burdens, who could not take their departure from their Alma Mater, even for a day, without bidding her a cheering, but affectionate adieu. Accordingly cheer upon cheer rent the cool morning air; and ere the reverberating echoes had ceased the beautiful buildings of Notre Dame were lost to the Minims’ fond vision. Nothing w’orthy of note occurred on the way, except that now and then the occupants of one or more of the vehicles would start some old familiar song, to be joined a moment later by the rest of the party; and then, indeed, would the welkin ring with the sound of many voices joined in sweet choral strains.	-
The St. Joe was reached in just one hour and a half from the time the College grounds were left—not bad time when we mention the fact of the St Joe’s being nine miles distant from the University, and that each vehicle was pretty well crowded. The first glimpse of the St. Joe was the occasion for another outburst of cheers, which were maintained at intervals until the St. Joe was reached, and the pedal extremities of each excursionist had come in contact with terr& firma. The morning’s ride had been lather cool, and therefore the places first visited were those where the most warmth was obtainable. Some made for the Farm House sitting-room, in which a grand old fire, was blazing, while more directed their steps towards the steam-house, where they were most kindly received, and hospitably entertained by their old friend Brother Sebastian. Being made oblivious of the cold out-door air by the genial warmth of the steam-house and sitting-room, many were soon seen engaged in doing the Farm. There were a thousand-and-one things to be seen; the dairy to be visited, and the qualities of its contents to be subjected to the repeated tests of each individual;’ the horses, colts, etc., must receive their share of attention. And when these, with the many other things of interest around St. Joe, had claimed the attention of the observant little Minims for a couple of hours, the big farm bell gave
154	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
forth its loud peals, which had the {effect of causing all to suspend further investigation into and examination of the many things of interest met with at every step, and to hasten from all sides towards the large dining-hall. Here the mattre cThotel had made ample provision to meet the requirements of the large party, which, sat down to tables covered with everything which constitutes a first-class banquet. ’Twas evident from the rapidity with which roast and stewed chickens, roast beef, and pie, and cake of every kind, disappeared that the appetites of a>l present had been sharpened bv the ride in the cool, fresh morning air. Dinner over. Brothers John, Henry, and others, conducted the little gentlemen to all the principal places of interest which as yet remained unexplored. All the good Brothers at St Joe seemed to vie with each other in their endeavors to make their little visitors happy. That their efforts in this respect were successful is a fact to which each-and every Minim gives testimony. We must not forget mentioning the kindness of Rev. Father Shea, C- S. C., the Cnaplaih of S'. Joe, which was felt by all on this occasion, and contributed very materially to the joy of the day. As for ourselves, we have so often been under obligations to Father Shea that an acknowledgment of them on an occasion like this would be improper. We will but say that we met with nothing but kiudness on all sides.
A rich lunch was served at four o’clock; and forty-five minutes later all were again on their way to the University not, however, before giving three rousing cheers for St. Joe and bidding all thereat a kind adieu. The University was reached in time for supper; and here we tock our depar lure from our little friends, feeling tliat we had spent a day most pleasantly in their midst. "Rev. Father Kittel, Bro. Simon, and Mr. Regan, C. S. C., were of the parly, and speak in unmis’akable terms of the pleasure they experienced on this occasion. We are sure that all the Minims feel most grateful to their kind prefect for their excursion to the St. Joe Farm.
The only drawback to their happiness was the absence of Very Rev. Father General, who regretted not being able to accompany the Minims, on account of a previous engagement he had made to preach at South Bend, on behalf of a new church which St. Joseph’s congregation purpose building.
Personal.
—P. W. Tamble, ’77, is residing near Nashville, Tenn.
—F. X Claffey, '76, is teaching school at Niles, Mich.
—Ivo. Budeke, ’69, is practicing medicine at Nashville, Tenn.
—A. Caren (Prep.), ’79, is attending school at Columbus Ohio..
—Elias D. Riddle, ’69, is practicing law in Central, Texas.
—Virgil McKinnon, '77, is engaged in business at Chicago, Ill.
—Frank Wtisarl (Commercial, ’79) is keeping books at Vincennes.
—George Orr, ’79, is residing with his father near Nor-.walk, Ohio.
—Robert Keenan, '79, i* attending college at Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
—J. Baegio (Commercial, ’66,) has married and settled in Louisville, Ky.
—Rev. Jacob Lauth, C. S. C., (’68,) assistant priest at Austin, Texas, was here on a visit.
—Miss Gavin, the celebrated elocutionist, from Chicago, visited Noire Dame and St. Mary’s last week.
—Hon. jacob Wile, Mrs Wile and daughter, of Laporte, were the guests of the President on Sunday last.
—Park Perley (Prep ), ’79, has been unwell at his home in Missouri since his departure from Notre Dame.
—Roger Semmes (Prep.), ’79, is attending school near -Canton, Miss. He expects to return to Noire Dame next year.
—Eugene F. Arnold, ’77, is engaged in the study of Jaw, under the supervision of one of the best Washington city lawyers	_ . .
—E l Forrester (Commercial, ’72) Laporte, Ind., spent four or five days of last week in renewing his acquaintance at Noire Dame
—Mr. Ii men, C. S C., took his departure for Cincinnati last Wednesday morning. He will assume professorial du'ies in St. Joseph’s College.
—R. H. Russell, ’79, is following a literary course at Madison, Wis. Dick was on the Scholastic staff when he attended College here, and was a ready and graceful writer.
—Henry Cassidy, '77, is practising law at Youngstown, Ohio. We have recently been informed that he has entered the political arena, being a .delegate to the S’ate Convention.
—C. V. Larkin is employed by his brother Ed in the dry good business at Wheeling, West Va. We understand they intend removing to Chicago to prosecute the same business.
—Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., ’52, is now the oldest living regular graduate of Notre Dame. He is the worthy and effluent pastor of a large Euglish-speaking congregation at Stratford, Canada.
—Very Rev. President Corby lately received a letter from W. B. Moons of —, who is now residing at De Land, Florida, where he is engaged in improving and making an orange and lemon grove. He states that Mr. Shapply, of —, is also there, engaged in raising tropical fruits. He says in another part of his letter: “ We often speak of you, and of our college days at dear o’d Notre Dame, and only wish that we could visit you and the dear old grounds again.”
Local- Items.
—Cold.
—Eureka 1
—Sleighing.
—Very cold.
—Well, let it snow.
—And still it snows.
—Lo, the poor turkey!
—Snow six inches deep.
—“ Oh I winked at the wind.”
—Get your skates ready, boys.
—Locals are scarce these days.
—Hurrah for Thanksgiving Day!
—Next Thursday is Thanksgiving Dav.
—Listen to the merry-sounding sleigh-bells I
—Will the B md “ show up ” Thanksgiving ?
—The Columbians are in good working order.
—The Senior play-hall faculty can’t, be beaten.
—“Wait until I—hie!—kick that ‘yaller dog.’”
—Handball is the favorite pastime of the Seniors.
—The Minims had a grand old time at the St. Jie.
—Prof. Edwards has our (hanks for favors rec ived.
—Prof. Lyons is the owner of an immense mocking-bird.
—“I can’t sing without an orchestral accompaniment.” —Bro. Cornelius had out the first sleigh of this season. —The “ Corporal ” is preparing a novel for publication. —The Cannon was brought home from Mishawaka last Friday.
—We noticed the “Marshall” at the Pnilopatrians’.sociable.
—Turkeys are coming; therefore the “ Corporal” smil.eth a “ smole.”
—The members of the Law Class are digesting—“ Porson on Contracts.”
—There was but one hungry, looking duck on the lower lake yesterday.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ,	155
—Prof. Howard will soon deliver a lecture before the Columbian Club.
—Double windows now adorn the Scholastics* residence " at Ml St. Vincent.
.	—Thanksgiving next Thursday, anti then the dissection
s	of.the big fat Turk—eh?
—Master Scharer was caned on Wednesday evening. Wonder how he liked it?	"
—“Now is the winter of”—O pshaw! we were only trying to think of a local item
—Rev. Father Fallize, the parish priest of Lowell, was at the University on Tuesday.	.
i —The “ Baby ” Sophomore protests that it was not be | who was trotted around the Campus.
j	—The Academia, held its second regular meeting on
j ’ Wednesday evening. It was a lively one.
।	—Our Boston Medic deserves great praise for his prompt
I and skilful treatment of the Mishawaka sufferers.
! —Prof. Paul has in his possession a Cross of the Legion ] of Honor, given to his father by the great Napoleon.
j	—The Columbian Club of the Commercial department is
in a flourishing condition. Number of members, 28.
—Mr. Winter, a cold old friend of ours, is here. He ! will remain with us untill the latter part of March, *81.
—Five more weeks until Christmas. Now, boys, let us see who will have the best class record during that time.
—The music produced by violins in the bands of Messrs. Aveline and Bloom is heartily appreciated by the Seniors. I	—The ducks are quite numerous on the lake?, and, judg-
ing from the appearances of the hunters as they return, are very safe.
—To-morrow, the Feast of the Presentation. Sfiua de 1 Angelis. page 42 of the Kyriale, will be sung. Vespers, p.
36 oi the Vesperal.
—The large telescope presented to the University by Napoleon III, is now in the hands of Brother Isidore, undergoing a thorough cleaning.
-	—The Professor of Anatomy uses every week the same
razor he had sixty vears ago when a young surgeon with Bonaparte in the Waterloo campaign.
—Our friend John is happy in his comparisons. He re-r marked to us the other day that Gray takes to that monstrous bicycle like a duck to the water.
—Father Hudson, we are glad to say, has been benefited by his trip to the East. We wish him a long and prosperous career in his favorite field of literature.
—The inclemency of the weather has forced Prof. Unsworth to discontinue his constitutionals. He is anxiously looking for the advent of the Indian summer.
—Prof. Lyons desires us to say that a reward not exceeding fifty dollars will be given to the one finding and returning to him the “ Waiting for the Verdict.”
—Vice-President Walsh and the Rev. Prefect of Discip-■ line “do” the lakes daily in quest of feathered victims. They never find any—at least they bring none back.
;	—The Prof, of Botany has received from Miss Delia
Clarke, of Baltimore, a large collection of foreign ferns . and flowers scientifically mounted, for which he returns thanks.
—The Cornet Band had a rehearsal on Wednesday afternoon. A new, pretty, but difficult piece was practiced. It will most likely be played at the coming dramatic entertainment.
—The Philopatrians desire us to state that they will not -attempt to burn Bertrand this fall. This will undoubtedly be most welcome news for the inhabitants of that often perturbated city.
—Prof. Gregori is making studies for several large pic. tures to illustrate the life of Columbus. The scenes, twelve in number, are to be painted on the walls of the corridor leading into the rotunda.
—The influx of students to the Junior Department has >	been so great that a new dormitory had to be opened last
■	week. Notre Dame has more students this year than at
i any other time since the panic of *71.	'
—The following students of the Minim Department da-serve special mention for improvement in penmanship: Masters J. S. Courtney, D. G. Taylor, H. C. Snee, G. Tour-tillotte, C..C. Echlin, F- Fischel, H. Metz, M. Olds, C. E. Droste and W. F Hahavin; •	’
—“Paws and n fleet! ”as the mule said to our friend John, who stood- behind, lashing him—at the same lime assisting John to a seat on a snow-bank by a fling of his pedal extremities. Our friend John says that" since then .he keeps a respectful distance from the mule family.
—At a meeting of the Academia, , held Wednesday evening, Nov. 17th, Messrs. W.- B. McGirrisk and F. Grever were elected to membership.. After the meeting adjourned the Director handed around “Bro. Thomas’s Best,” and with music and social converse the staff enjoyed themselves to their bean’s content.
—Prof. Lyons, who has been P;esident of the St. Cecilia Society for the last fifteen years, says that this year’s members excel those of any former year, both in good conduct and gentlemanly behavior.. On an average, not more than one or two members have been omitted from the Roll of Honor since the beginning cf the session.
—The Seniors in the second dormitory, it seems, have no ear lor vocal music. For oft in the stilly night ghostlike forms, with ^pillows under their arms, may be. seen moving in hushed stillness towards the fat man’s bed; and with bang! bang! they remind him that although his dreams may be pleasant the harsh grating sounds produced by his nasal organs are not.
—The fourth regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Tuesday evening, Nov. 17th. Declamations were delivered by Masters Courtney and Van Mourick. Masters F. Farrelly and C. Echlin sung some good songs. Master E. Fischel was unanimously elected to membership. A.grand chorus was sung by the whole Society, after which the meeting adjourned.
—Masters Rohrback, Hake, Brinkman, Hintze, Homan, Fleming, Livingston, Truschel, Smith, Mahon. McPhil-lips, Grever, Gall, Tinley, and Jacobs resolved to prepare a surprise for .their little companion, Master—, who is somewhat lame; so they fought and presented him with a beautiful cane. The presentation took place after supper, in the juniors’ refectory, on Wednesday.
—Last Tuesday was the anniversary of the entrance into this mundane sphere of J. J. McGrath of the Minim Department. Needless to say thstheund his young cbm* panions celebrated the day in an approbate manner. Johnnie received a “ box ” from home, well stocked with good things. He generously divided the contents of hit box among his companions.' They ask us to return him their thanks.
—The two mural paintings just finished in the .Seniors’ refectory, by Professor Ackerman, represent the Church of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem, and the Cathedral of Vienna. The artist is now. engaged in drawing the outlines for a representation of St. Mark’s Cathedral at Venice. When this is finished, he will paint the Kremlin at Moscow, the Cologne Cathedral, Milan Cathedral, -Notre Dame, I Paris, and the ruins of Melrose Abbey.
ThePhilopatrians had a little jolliflcation on Saturday evening, in Washington Hall. All seemed to enjoy themselves hugely. Mahon and Maher furnished the music for the occasion. Ex-Vice-President Start .was present, and added much to the evening’s enjoyment by singing several comic songs; “ break downs ” were given by Rohrback, Herrick,Kelly, Woodson, andafew others. Lunch was partaken of by McPhillips, Boose, Wilder, and all the others.	;
—On Sunday, the Feast of the Patronage of the Blessed Virgin,—by transfer—the people of St. Joseph’s Church South Bend, had the honor of being addressed by Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. He preached in-French .and English; and in that eloquent and touching manner, so characteristic of himself; lot Very R-v. -Father General uses words with such energy and force ts-never fail -to impress his audience. '	'
—The sixth.regular meeting of. thkSt.rStani*laiis.Philo-patriaii Society1 tobk plscB Friday evening, ‘Nov. lUh.
156
5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	j
■Masters E. Munce and G. Haslam presented themselves for membership and were elected.. Masters Rohrback, Woodson and Herrick appeared to' advantage' in vocal .’music selections. L.'Gibert gave a declamation in French.
Masters Browne. G. Schaefer, F. Wheatley, H. Devitt, H. • Sells, H. Dunn, G. Woodson, A Schmil, J. Wilder, G. O’Kane, J. Whelan, and E. Smith delivered declamations.
—The 8’h regular meeting of the Columbian Association was held Tuesday, Nov. 16th. Messrs. Moran, Garrity and ■Thiel delivered declamations; and Mr. Jas. Cannon was elected. An extemporaneous debate—“ Rt solved. That Usurv is a Theft”—was next in order. Messrs. H. O’Donnell, E. .Taggart, and J. Cannon supported the affirmative side; and Messrs. J. M. Falvey, J. W. Quinn and G. S. Hagan that of the negative. The debate was well contested on both sides, but the decision was given in favor of the affirmative.
—The large room above the Columbian Hall is being fitted up as a repository for the collection of Indian curiosities and antiquities, presented to the College by a former •missionary among the tribes of Minnesota. The collec-• lion contains numerous articles of English manufacture, tomahawks, war-clubs, calumets, arrow-heads, cooking utensils made of horn, wicker-work, beads, necklaces composed of the claws of wild animals, several garments made from skins and cloth, besides a large number of photo-gaphs and lithographs illustrative of life among the aborigines. .
—The Commercials of the Columbian Club held their 6th regular meeting Tuesday, Nov. 2d. After the regular proceedings, the following debate took place:- ‘‘Resolved, That: a Commercial Career Offers a Better Opening to a Young Man than a Profession does.” Messrs. W. Young and W. J. Kelly supported tbeaffirmative side of the debate, •while Messrs. O'Donnell and Sieis defended the negative.
■ Decided in favor of the affirmative^ At the 7th regular meeting, held Nov. 9th, the subject of debate was: “Resolved, That Capital Punishment Should be Abolished. Affirmative, Messrs Falvey and J. Brown; negative, Messrs. J. Quinn and G. Hagan. Decided in favor of the affirmative. Mr. Brehmer read an essay on Philosophy.
—The 9th regular meeting of he St. Cecilia Philoma-thean .Association was held Sa'.today evening, Noy. 13 b. At thi< meeting, O. Brinkman read an essay on “ Wm. Cullen Brvant and His Works” ; N. Nelson spoke on John Philbot Curran; C. Tinley’s essay was on “Wm. ; Shakspeare and The Drama” ; W. D. Cannon read a composition on the works ot J. Fennimore Cooper; and R E. Fleming desciibed “ Robespierre and His Times.” Public readers f<>r ’his week are C. Tinley, J. O’Neill, H. Rose, ■J. Gordon, F.-. Grever, R Fleming, and W. Cleary. A unanim' u- vote of thanks was tendered Bros. Leander and Simon lor favors received; to the “Glee Club” and to the Orchestral Combination for music furnished at the So-'ciety’s sociable.
—Mice have been of late annoying the- “ Corporal ” to such an extent as to provike him to the composition of the following:
. O mice! if here yon come for food, you’d better go elsewhere; For in this cabin, small and rude, you’d find but slender fare. Go where you’ll meet with good fat cheese, and sweet dried figs - in plenty,
Where even the scraps will yield with ease a banquet rich and dainty;
If to devour my books you come, you’ll rue it, withoutquestion; And find them all, as 1 find some, of very hard digestion.”
The above lim s may be taken as a specimen of the rich litera’ure which will be found in that novel which the ‘.’Corporal ” is so busy in preparing for publication.
—Mister Henry Hake, of the Junior department, was called home last week to attend the wedding of his sister, which took place at Grand Rapids, Wednesday, the 10th inst. We clip the following short ex'ract from a long account .of the hanpy event.which appeared in the Grand Rap-•iQs-Sdturclay Evening Post of the 13ih inst.: “Tne remark-lably fine peisunal appea.rance and bearing Of the married •Couple anddheir-suite, all in full costume; the decorated *interidr- df St. Andrew’s ; the large'assembly; the three offi-
ciating priests in rich vestments, the acolytes ministering about the altar, all combined to make a spectacle elegant in itself,' and long to be remembered by those~who witnessed it, and whose sympathies fully followed the benediction, received by the young and happy couple, from the Church of their faith. In the evenii g a brilliant reception was given the young couple at Mr. Hake’s residence, which was attendid by some three hundred guests. Numerous elegant ar.d costly presents bore substantial testimony to the esteem in which the bride is held by her friends. Hosts of Iriends unite in the wish that the journey of the young couple through life, together, may be ever as bright and happy as its beginning.”
—About one o’clock, Friday afternoon, eighty-five of the Seniors started out for a trip to Mishawaka. The roads were in good condition, and the walking very agreeable, and enjoyed by all. Not many incidents of any account happened during the trip to town. “ Sol ” kept the company in good spirits by singing several songs. He was assisted by the “Glee Club,” as a matter of course. We met with a few wild rabbits, etc., but as the Nimrods were not with us, they escaped unharmed. After a walk of about two hours, we reached the outskirts of----, and in a short while after, crossed the bridge which leads into the town. When we arrived there, the “Cannon” went off gloriously, and everything seemed to predict a good day’s sport. We then separated into small groups, and began to view the sights. Our friend John started off in search <>f the Barber of Mishawaka, but after wand< ring around for some time, and making vain inquiries, he found out that this person was just about as mythical as the moustache, which he was to have dyed. The three “Graces” went to the photograph gallery, for the purpose ol having their pictures taken—they made a classical group. The . photographer told them that the effect would be more striking if they had the picture of the group painted. After a brief consultation, they decided to have the picture painted. The artist is now at work on it, and it will make a great work if justice be done it. I believe it is their intention to have it exhibited in the diff-r.-ntart galleries throughout the country. At the request of the Principal ot the High School, the “Corporal,” in company with several friends, visited that institution, and were kindly received and conducted through the building. In the course of conveisation, the Principal said to the “ Corporal”: “I suppose you will give a good perlormance this evening?” Of course the “Corporal ’’asked for an explanation, and the Principal told him that he thought that he'[the Corporal] was manager of a dramatic company whten was to perform that evening. The Principal kindly r< quested Mr. K-----to examine the 1st Latin Class. Of course Mr. K-----complied. The examination proved a very satisfactory one to all, except the “Corporal,” who objected to the pronunciation given some of the Latin words I suppose the “ Corporal ” is a judge in this respect, as he’s a finished Latin scholar. He finished in 8th Latin. ' After thanking the Principal for his kind attentions, we left the school, and after wandering around for a short time, we procei ded to the place of meeting. It was intended to take the train at five o’clock, but on account of the great number oi interesting affairs which riveted our attention, ail did not assemble at the appointed place till half-past five. The train, of Course, didn’t wait for us, so we bad- to walk home. As we were walking qu'n tly along, and talking of the events of the day, (lie “Corporal ’’suddenly y. said to Harry: “It seems to me that I see a phantom be-	T
lore me.” Harry looked in the direction indicated, and ( said: “ It seems to me that the phantom is the skeleton ' the ‘ Medics ’ have been seeking.” The “ Corporal ’’said he	I
did not know whether it was or not, but said he’d soon	j
find out. So, approaching the supposed ghost, he adminis-	I
tered a Number 9 to it; or, in other words, introduced	'
his “shoemaker’’to the supposed ghost's “tailor.” The ghost turned upon the “ Corporal ” and would have pulver-ized him, had not the “ Corporal ” said that he only i wanted to be a little friendly. After walking briskly for about one hour and a half we reached the University, pretty । well tired out. The next thing in order was to extend a vote of thanks to Bros. Ireneus and Albert for their kindness. I This done, and supper over, all retired well' satisfied with the day’s sport.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	157
.	• • -	. Roll of Honor.
i;	''	----
i L [The following: are the names of those students who during ? y the past week have, by their exemplary conduct, given satisfac-[t % tion to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	,
T. Kavanaugh, J L. Noonan, Geo. Clarke, W. B. McGorrisk, J. Rolon. W. H. Arnold, E. J. Taggart. J. J. Casey, B. Casey, L E. Clements, E Otis J. N O-her. F. Sm’tb, W. I. Brown, • J. F Brown, J. C. Newmin, F. E. Knhn, J. De'anev, A. Zahm. C. Brehmer, W. J. McUarthv. W. J. Kelly, W. R. Ymng. G. L. I	Hagan, H. A. Steiz. J. M. Falvey, C. H. Thiele, J. McNamara,
•	R. Le Bourgeois, T. F. Clarke. L. Mathers, E. G. Sugg. J. P.
I	Hagan, W. Rott erm an. J. A. Melntvre, J. O’Reilly, F. J Gar-
j	rity. G. E. Sugg, F. W. Ward, E. Piper, B. F. Smith. W. E
i	Hoffman, L. W S itze!. A. A. B >dine, D. R. Pbillios, D. A.
Harrin it m. J. J. McEdain, G. L. Trace, J. Malone. E. McGor.
I	risk. F. Godfrey, A. Weisheart, W. P. Fishhurn, C. H. Van
|	Dusen, L. M. Proctor, F. M. Bell, F. M. Morrison, J. Avaline,
!	W. R. Johnson, E. Troxel, B. Eaton, J. Redmond, W. Jones,
<; R. M. Anderson, D. Ryan, G. Metz.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
‘ A. A. Brown. F. A. Boone, C. J. Brinkman, M. G. Butler, V. G. Butler, J. H Burns, A. Bodine, W. H. Barron. J. A. Casey, J. Courtney, E. Cnllmene, W J. Cavanaugh. W. Cieary, H. P. Dunn. J. W. D -vitt, A. J. Dennis. N H. Ewing. T. F. Fiynn, J. M. Flynn, J. H. Fendrick, R. E. Fleming. Ed Fische’, i J. J. Gord >n. E. F. Ga'l. F. H. Grever, W. Gray, H. P. Hake, A. J. Hintze. J. T. Homan. F. R. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. A. Joyce, F. A. K erne, C. C. Ko lars, Frank McPniliips, J. L Morgan, C. J. MeD rmott, S. T. Murdock, J. F. Martin, J. S McGrath, A. 8. Mnnnin-r. H W. Morse,, N.-J. Nelson. E. C. Orrick. J. P. O Neill, L. O’Donnell, C. F. Perrv, F. A. Quinn, A.
N. Rohrback, C. F. Rose, H. L. Rose, J. Ruppe, W. E. Smith, E. E. Smith, G. G. Schafer, J. M. Scanlan. G. A. Trusehel, C. A. Tin'ey, J. Wommer, F. J. "Woeher, F. W. Wheatley, G. Woodson, T. Williams, W. Weney, J. H. Bennett. -I	MTNJM DEPARTMENT.
। D. G. Taylor, C. E. Droste, H. E. Ki' z, J. A. Kelley. G. E I Tnurtillotte. F. McGra’h, F. Fishel, H. A. Snee, A. Molander, W. Taylor, D. O’Conner, C. C. Eehlin, F. Maroney. W. B-rth-elet, W. F. Hsnavin. J J. M-Gra'h, J. Fra'n, A. H. Chirhart, J. C. Haslam. E. A. Howard, J. Ruppe, J. H Dwenger, M. E. Devi’t, L. .1. Young, F. Farrelly, B. A. Bender. C. Metz, W. J. Miller. J. E Chaves, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, C. Young, E B. Bagard, H. Ackerman, E. S. Chirhart, A. B. Van Mounck.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
R. Adams, J. Cannon, F. Dever, J. Delaney, T. Kavanaugh, J. McNamara, H. O’Donnell, E. Sugg, A. Coghlin, P. Joyce, C. Rtetz. J. Scanlan. G. Si vermann, J. Falvev, W. Fishburn, G. L. Hagan. W. E Hoffman. W. Johnson, F. E. Kuhn, W J. Kel'y, R. Le Bourgeois. J. A. McIntyre J. C. Newman, J. W. Quinn, H. St-is, C Thiele, F. Ward, W. R. Young, D. R. Pnillips, T. Flynn. E Gall. J. Guthrie, H. Hake, F. Kleine, J. W. Start, E. Fishel, A. Bodine.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly—Director or Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.	-
Reading and Orthography—J. Martin, A. Bodine.G. Trusehel, A. Korty, 8. Henoch, W. Johnson, C. Brehmer, W. P. Mahon, G. Hagan, W. J. Kelly, J. New-min; Grammai—F. Kleine, J. Scanlm, J. Falvey, W. R. Young, I. E Kuhn; Geography and History—F. K eine. C. Murdock, J. Heffernan, E Croarkin, G. Silverman, Jas. Heffernan, J. Morgan, F. McPhill'ns, W. Cogh-lin. C. Murdock, IT. O’Donnell, J. Kelly, T. Kavanagh. J. Falvev, J. Cannon, F. Dever; Arithmetic—J. Falvey, H O'Donnell. G. Siiverman. C. Breumer, P. Joyce, J. Scanlan; Book keeping—R. C. Adams, G. Silverman, H. O’Donnell, C. Rose, ,	J. H.‘Burns. E. FLchel, H. Steis, J. Melntvre, J. Guthrie, H.
,	Hake, F K ein», J. Heffernan, G. Trusehel, W. Johnson, J. W.
: Quinn, W. R. Young, J. C. Newman. Jas. Caunon, F. E. Knhn, R. Le Bourgeois, G. L. Hagan, F. Ward, J. Falvey, W. J. Kelly;
’ Penmanship, A. T. Moran, N. W. Morse.
TO $20 PER WEEK. Ladies and Gentlemen wanted tn canvass for McGae’a Illustrated Weekly. Box 2120, New York.	■ ■ -
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY. . All Kinds ot Engraving Doi SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. .
Matthews & Holt,
PLUMBERS & GASFITTERS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
GAS MACHINES,
AND DEALERS IN GASOLINE,
75 Dearborn St., Unity Block,	’ ’ "
CHICAGO, ILL.
Refer by Permission l<> University of Notre Dame, Ind.
THE BEST PAPER! TRY IT!
BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED. ; .
3OtIl YEAR.
Blu
Tre scientific American is a large First Class Weekly Newspaper m Sixteen Pages, printed in the m st beautiful style, ptofuselfb illustrated with splendid engravings, repre- . sen tingthene west Inventionsand the most recent Advances in the Artsand Sciences; including New and Interes’ing Facts in Agriculture, Horticulture, the Home, Heal'h, Medical Progress, Social Science, Natural History, Geology, Astronomy. The most valuable practical papers, by eminent writers in all departments of Science, will be found in the Scientific American.	*
Terms, $3 20 per year, $160 half year, which includes postage Discount to Agents. Single copies, ten cents. Sold hv all Newsdealers Remit by postal nrfier to MUNN & CO , Publishers, 37 Park Row, New Y<>rk. . PATPMTQ 1° connec,’nn witl1 the. .17 A L 1LLN So’entiflo American, Messrs. Munn &Co are Solicitors of American and Foreign Patents, have had 35. years experience, and now have the largest establishment in therworld. Patents are obtained on the ■ best of terms, A special notice is made in the S'iellt’fl} G Amtrioan of all Inventions patented through this Agency, with the dame and residence • of the Patentee. By the -immense circulation thus given, public attention is directed ” to the merits of the’new patent, and sales or introduction often easily effected.	_
Any person who has made a new discovery or invention, can ascertain./res of charge, whether a patent can probably •: be obtained, by writing to Munn & Co. We‘ also send ’ free onr Hind B >ok about the Pa'ent Laws, Patent Ca-veals, Trade-Marks, their cost, and how procured; with " bin’s for procuring advances on inventions. Addfess for ■ ' the Paper,*or concerning P'.tents, -	.	•
MUNN & CO., 37 Dark Bow, Naw 7ork.
Branch Office, cor. F & 7th Sts., Washington, D. C.'.
158
THE NOTRE PAME SCHOLASTIC.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
Robert King,
TEACHER OF
Elocution and Dramatic Art,
(Since 1855,) •
73 TWENTY-SIXTH STREET, CHICAGO.
Liberal arrangements made with Colleges and Universities for Dramatic R citals and Humorous Readings.
Terms sent on application.
oct23 3m
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov 7 1880, trains will l»»ve South Bend a»
3 35 a. m. Caicaeo and St. Et:>ror«. over Mtv i.v-e. at rives at To.edo 9 50 a tn. Cleveiatd 230 p. tn; Buffalo 8 <-5 p ru.
1 L OS a.ra. Mail, ..ver Hain Line, arr’ves ai Toieao. 5 <0 Claveland ID 10 p.m; Buffalo, 1 a.m.
0 13 p.m, A ’antic Express, over Air Line. Arives at To.'t-d.
2 40 a.m: Cleve and, 7 05 a tn; Buffalo. 110 u m.
13 16 o. m. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrive* at Toledo 5 40 p.m. Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 am.
6 21 p m Limited Express. Arrive’ at Toledo 10 35 p m; Cleveland, 145 a m; Buffalo, 7 25 a tn.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte S 35 a.m, Chicago 6a.m.
S OS a-m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 890 a.m.
8 03 a m, Ac-ommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chesterton. 9 47 a m; Ch cago, 1130 a.m.
1 Iff p m. Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2 12 p m; Chesterton, 2 52 p m; Chicago 4'4’ p m.
4 SO p.m, Special Chicago Kxpr.:0. Arrives at Laporte 538; Chee'erton. 615 pm; Chicago, 8 pm.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE,GenTpt.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 1«, 1870. ‘
	•Man	‘Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNIght Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich City-•• Niks	 “ Kalamazoo -•• Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a. m 1118 “ 19 15 p.m 1 40 - 4 05 •« 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 85 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p th. 740 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 1950 a.m 335	9 id pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 •• 8 00 “
	‘Mail	•Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	lEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo-. “ Niles 		 •• Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 CO a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35a m 12 15 p.m 2 37 *• 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55p.m 4 50 a.m 6 50 - 8 08 “ 10 35 “	950 pm. 1245 a.m. 943 415" 5 30 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 138 a.m 330 “ 4 55 “ 780 “
Niles and Soutli Bend IM-vlslon.
•GOING NORTH. Lv. Bo. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m “ N. Dame-8 52 “ ’638 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. - . Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—740 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 ■*	4 55 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaity. tBaturday and Sunday excepted Hixbt C.W®crwo®ru, _ HBLimvanp,
G. P. S T. A, CMcagfr BL	a ^GyU Maagm^ Dgtoolt, Mich.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
Ab extra charge for eeate tn thejlneet Seclining Chair Palace Can in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Care of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and 8T. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne* braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the Jiorth and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Min-inf districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply st any coupon Ticket Offlce in the United States and Canada, or to
Jamm Chablton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent.	. . Gen’l Manager
$10 Dearborn st, near cor. of Adams, Chicago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
159
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls ybnr attention to the following: REASONS WHY-if about to make a Journey to . the G-ItE-AT WEST-you should Travel over it:' sr - ’ .
■ Ai nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union Depots, at all important points. No change of cars between Chicago, Kansas Citv, Lea vuxwihith. Atchison or Council Bluffs. Quicfcjourneys. because carried on Fast Express-Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats^that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest tn home-llke beds. Dining cars that are used only for eatlng’pur-poses, and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. Ar journey that -furnishes the finest views of the fertile farms and prettv cities of Illinois. Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered -as one of .the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive nt destination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty; calm, not angry. ’ In -5: brief, vou get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of co<t.	‘
QBE HALF INTERIOR VIEW W CAR
That the unremitting care of the Chicago. Rock Island & Pacific Railway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the Seat assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the great citiesof e United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while en route to behold the wonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health, pleasnreor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October, the Company every year puts on sale, May 1st, at all coupon ticket offices in the United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver. Colorado Springs and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October 31st. Also to San Francisco, forparties of ten I or more, good for ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.
' ' KEMEMBER, this is the most direct route for *11 points WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further information. Uma . tables, maps or folders, call upon or address
! R. R. CALBLE,	S. ST. JOHAf, *
•	Vice Pres’t and Gen’l Manager, Chicago.	Gm’l Ticket and Pass'r Agent.
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872 for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWA-RIJS.
.	Notbb Dame, Indiana.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
July 18,1880. Local and Through Time Table. No. 19.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems, BY MAUBICE IF. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame
University. *
Price, $1, postpaid.
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
BUY THE
CLASS DAY BOOK OF 80.
Going*	North.	STATIONS.	Going*	South.
1.25* m.		Leave	arrive - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m.	8.05 p.m. 8 51 “
2 88 “	1 55 p.m.	• - - - La Porte, - -	10.23 “	
3.13 «	136 "	- - - Stillwell, - - -	tn 41 “	9.2« “
11.55 p.m.	116 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	non “	9 47 “
11.34 “	13.46 “	- - - Plymouth, - - -	11 85 “	ln.33 “
10 84 “	11.53 a.m.	- ... Rochester, - - -	12.27 p.m.	fi.25 a.m.
19.58 *•	1114 “	- - - - Denver, - • -	1.05 “	711 ‘
|	1985 “	10.53 “	- - •	- Peru, . - - -	130 “	7 25 “
1	9.08 «	10.24 “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	1.59 •*	1.OI “
8.38 “	9.55 “	- • Kokomo Junction, - -	2.32 “	1.3 i “
i	7.54 *•	914 “	- - - - Tipton, - -	316 “	2.23 “
7.13 «	8.80 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4 00 “	S.^ “
6.10 “	7 30 “	- - Indianapolis. - - -	5.00 “	4J0 “
THE ONLY LINE Rnnuinsr a noon Train out of Indianapolis for NORTHERN INDIANA and MICHIGAN, and for Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST.
1 Elegant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANOPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDP’S and MICHIGAN CITY.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H Rockwell,
Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
Published by the Class of ’80.
Besides containing the Guide and Hand Book to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Academy, it embraces
“CLASS SONG,” POETBY, LTEBAEY
SELECTIONS, ETC.,
Together With
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS, WERSITY EXCHANGE NEWS,
LAUGHABLE ANECDOTES & HUMOROUS EXTRACTS.
For Sale at Students’ Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SINGLE COPY,
SO CENTS.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
mAIN BUILDING.)
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 184-2, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niies with the railway-between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Univebsitt affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,	’ LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to 'Commercial pursuits, Nothb Dame gives a more complete business traiuing than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
hi all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, ancT the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance,
CATAEoroEP, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very Bev. W. < OFBT, C. S W<**re Bswe P, O.t Indians.