The Scholastic.
5 ■	"	.
.	. ___	. .	_ i,. n
pEVOTED TO THE
of the Students.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus
Volume VEIL NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 5, 1874.	Number 11.
JNO.HAGERTY, City Judge.
L. G. TONG, Notary Public.
gAGERTY & TONG,
ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW, REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
No. 9 Odd Fellows’ Block, - ‘ - South Bend, Indiana.
oSLly
Before going elsewhere, go to
J] S. PECKS,
Dealer in
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
;	£) J- HOLLAND, & Co., . .
Wholesale Manufacturers of
. . HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—	«
WirOTBISA r,E JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS , IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES. ’
1OO MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND IND., oS4-tf.
p E.- CUMMINS,
’	. DENTIST? .
I No. 96 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
|	(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-lm
' -	Do you want a drive ? Go to
jgEN COQUILLARD’S .
j	LIVERY STABLES,
[	Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets,
I •	South Bend, Indiana.
;	o24-2m
^“UTHE STUDENTS' OFFICE!!^
~p|~ENRY BLUM,
•	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
i	CIGARS, TOBACCOS, PIPES, JEtc.,
No. 54= WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. \cSAM
•g NICAR & Co.,
* HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	- - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
HEADQUARTERS FOR	’
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boyes, etc., - o24-tf
•y NICAR, DEALER IN HARDWARE, -91 MICHIGAN St., -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO—	.
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. ____________________________• ■______o24-tf jy£RS. C. S. STOVER, MILLINER, 129 Michigan, Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
Millinery Goods, Hats, Bonnets, Laces, Etc. £3?” The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy ■will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	o24-Jan 1
JJIGHT & FAIRFIELD,	4
JEWELLERS
, ' South Bend, - - - Indiana. .
Solicit the Patronage of the Students of Noire Dame and St. Mary's -	CONFIDENT IN
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK, _ None Can Fail to be Suited. CS7” Particular attention given to repairing fine Jewelry and Watches.	o24-3m
QEORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEALER IN	.
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. ,	(Up Stans.)	J£o2Ltf
M. A. SMITH.	E. P- D ALLOW AT, '
SMITH & HOLLOWAY,	' ‘	’
.	' Dealers in
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, Chromos, Picttiresj Notions, Toys, and Ntusical Instruments. No. 77, Washington St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, IND.
■	'	' decu-Jg 3m.
130
THE SCHOLASTIC.
►almer & Vanwinkle,
Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES, Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellaneous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
S3?- Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services. _	o24-tf
pR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
J^DWARD BUYSEE,
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Kepairing promptly done, and all work warranted. J^-tf
A HANAUER,
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, .	South Bend, Indiana.
--	Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
- GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS, STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
Students wishing well made Clothing should go to T^UZBY & GALLAGHER, CLOTHIERS, MERCHANT TAILORS, AND DEALERS IN
Gents’ Furnishing Goods, HATS, CAPS, &c.
Mo. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SO UTH BEND, IND. o24-2m f
E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
-Special attention given to.FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old English, on Watches, Kings and Badges.	'
-	'	decl-^tf.
- JRELAND & SON,	..I,
'	PROPRIETORS OF	:
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,	“
No. 54 MICHIGAN St., ■ SOUTH BEND, IND., (.Opposite the Dwight House).
---o--
HACK JL.INJE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	J^o24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
•--0--
DROP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
and
See the Curiosities.
•No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay,
JERRY KNtGHT, 1 captain mills, j-Proprietors.
A KLINGEL & SONS, 69 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of .
Mens’ and Boys’ Fine Boots and Shoes "
of the
Celebrated BURT, ■HkKiL	LILLY YOUNG PRATT
and
Brackett & Boyden’s
Hand and Machine sewed Goods, the
Largest Stock
In The City.
Give us a Call and see the Nobby Styles!
LADIES
We would call your attention to our immense Stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard makes.	o24-3m
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
99 MAIN STBEET, - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fresh Candies Made Daily.
-	-	Jfo24-tf
1 The Scholastic
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE
pTUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper ’victurxis; vive quasi eras morituiuis
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 5, 1874.
Number IL
Innocent III asd his Times.
BY ».
While Pius IX is a prisoner in his palace in the Vatican, and all the Governments of disrupted Christendom, with the exception of‘the brave and glorious South American Republic of Ecuador, not only utterly refuse obedience to the Holy See in matters politic, but in most cases vie with each other in mocking him as a temporal prince, and by unjust laws endeavor to render null his power as Head of the Church, it is a lesson fraught with much instruction to recall the reign of Innocent III.
There are many things that are common to Pius IX and his great predecessor Innocent III, who in so many things resemble that other grand historical figure, Gregory VII— the great Hildebrande; but the chief resemblance is that characteristic which St. Peter has transmitted to all, even the weakest, of his successors in the Apostolic Chair of Rome,—undaunted and invincible zeal for the true glory of our Blessed Lord, manifested by his successors in their divinely directed courage in defending the rights of the Church. And thus we see the same apostolic zeal for the rights of the Church which Innocent IH showed when the Papal See had reached the maximum of its political power still manifested, and even brought out in brighter light, by Pius IX, deprived feloniously of his temporal domains, a prisoner, and pained every day by the accounts that are brought him, as the messengers brought bad news to good Job, of old, the persecutions against the Church in all the countries of the world.	. ■
But, without further preamble, let us speak of Innocent HI and his times. The two epochs of Gregory VH and Innocent III mark the visible rule of the Papacy over the world, and show how intimately connected are the history of the Catholic Church and the history of modern civilization. All the interests of European nations, the claims of rival princes, the elections of emperors, the hopes of political parties, the prayers of the whole world, were centred in the Sovereign Pontiff— “ the supreme arbiter of all dis. putes, the distributor of crowns, and the universal mediator.” (Darras.)	.
We have neither space nor time to show the utter fal. lacy of the opinion (that, after all, is now held only by those who are utterly ignorant of history,) which presents Innocent HI and the other Popes as ambitious minds profiting by the credulity of the times to enslave the world and bind it to the footstool of the Apostolic Chair. The more modern and impartial and more prevalent opinion now among the learned enemies of the Church, and the one that has been put forward by the best Protestant historians, as Voigt, Hurter and Ranke, is, that the Popes, es
pecially those who had been so much decried, in bestowing and withdrawing crowns acted in virtue of a sovereign • authority with which they had been clothed by the public law and opinion of the Middle Ages. They did not seek control; it was bestowed upon them. The Church could . then, as now, get along very well without the aid of the • state: but the state would have never arisen from barbarism, or would have relapsed into it, without the aid of the Church—that is, without the helping hand of the Pope* And as it then was, so is it now. Pius the IX is the only sovereign who keeps intact the laws of God, the source of < all civilization; and were it not for him the present world would be utterly overwhelmed with Paganism as corrupt as in the worst days of the Roman Emperors. On the death of Celestine HI, Lothaire, of the illustrious house of Conti, aged thirty-seven years, was chosen his successor, and he took the name of Innocent HI. Darras says: “ He was evidently the man destined by God to rule His Church. He was endowed with all those qualities which go to make up a great man; a vast and lofty intellect, un. wonted skill and prudence, keen perception, mature experience, unflagging energy, and unruffled mildness.”
It was in spite of his protestations that he was elevated . to the Apostolic Chair; he urged his youthfulness—but the, energy of that youthfulness was exactly what was required Having been enthroned, his indefatigable energy was equal to the most numerous and varied occupations. He held a consistory every morning, giving his attention to everything that came up, examining all matters with strictest care, requiring reports, proofs, and entering for the time into the minutest details. His keen perception unfolded the most intricate affairs, and showed him the issue, as if by a kind, of divination. In the evening he received all who had petitions to present, gave audience to ambassadors and strangers, heard all complaints, investigated wrongs, and did justice to all. “His love of justice,” says Hurter, “was a resolution, interwoven, so to speak, with every act of his life.” Amid all those laborious occupations he found time to write. “Among his works now extant,” says Darras> “ full of tender feeling and moving pathos is one entitled <InnocentiiIII, de Sacra Altans Hysteria' Libri VI* The liturgy of the Church is indebted to him for the in. sertion of the sublime plaint “ Stabat Hater" and the pious petition “ Veni Creator.”
“ The state of the world,” says Darras, “ at the period of his accession opened a vast field of apostolic zeal to.Innocent IH. The Romans, still blinded by the memory of their classic heroes, could not understand the high destiny marked out by Providence for Papal Rome. Political revolutions deluged Sicily with blood; its Norman dynasty was reduced to a queen, widowed and captive, with her royal child deprived of sight; its” German dynasty was also represented by a
232
THE SCHOLASTIC.
■widowed queen and a king five years of age. In Lombardy the free Republics and the Germans were contending for an ephemeral sovereignty; anarchy reigned supreme, unity was utterly lost. In Germany the imperial sceptre of Henry VI became an object of strife between three rival claimants: Philip Duke of Suabia, Otho Duke of Aquitaine, and the King of Sicily, Frederick II, son of the late Emperor. In France, Philip Augustus, blinded by a criminal passion, forgot his glory to shock the world by an incestuous alliance. In England, Richard Coeur de Lion was doomed to fall by an arrow from an ignoble hand, at the siege of Chaluz, leaving his crown to John, his brother, who possessed the qualities neither of a soldier, a king, nor of an honest man. In Spain, the bloody victory of Alarcos, won by the-Emir Almanzor or Alphonso IX, king of Castile (1195), placed the Moors in full possession of all the southern provinces of the Peninsula. The Christian kings of that country, utterly abandoned to the most shameful passions, outraged the sanctity of marriage, and, in domestic strife, turned against each other the weapons they should have borne against the enemy. In the East, the fate of the whole was to be decided by bloody struggles between Christian civilization and Mussulman barbarism; while in the West a set more dangerous than Islamism, the Albigensian heresy, strove to sap the foundations of all religion, morality and social order. Such was the herculean task set before the new Pontiff Innocent III was equal to the work. He first secured the good will of the Roman people by his liberality, and soon had restored to the pontifical domain Ancona, Fermo, Osimo, Fano, Sinigaglia, Spoleto, Rieti, Assisi, Foligno, Nocera, Todi, Perugia, Sabinam and the county of Beneventum, that had been unjustly usurped and held by ambitious kings and princes.
In Southern Italy, which gave him a still wider field of action, he soon restored order. Constance, a queen of Sicily, and widow of Henry VI, beset by many powerful factions, placed her hopes in the Holy See, recognized him as suzerain of the kingdom of Sicily, and sent a request to the Pope to confirm the claim of Frederick II to the throne, by bestowing upon him the solemn investiture. Before recognizing the German dynasty, Innocent III obliged the queen, to release from imprisonment the unhappy queen Sibylla, her son William and her two daughters (of the Norman dynasty). Their restoration to freedom is but another of the many proofs that the Holy See is the natural defender of the widow and the orphan. Nor did he forget the rights of the Church. The grants known as the Four Chapters were annulled. They had been granted by Adrian IV to William I, and constitute extensive ecclesiastical privileges for the Sicilian provinces, in regard to legations, ecclesiastical nominations, appeals to the Holy Sec and Councils. On the annulment of the Four Chapters, Innocent HI granted the bull of investiture (1198). On the death of the queen the Pope took the kingdom of young Frederick under his protection, and on the king’s coming of age gave him counsel and defended his interest, for which he received from Frederick only ingratitude.
The momentous question of the divorce of Philip Augustus and Ingelberga had been presented at Rome during the reign of Celestine III, and was unsettled at the time of that Pontiff’s death. The French king had seen his first wife, Isabella of Hainaut, daughter of Count Baldwin IV, consigned to the grave in the flower of her age. On his return from Palestine he wished to contract an alliance which might help his struggle with Richard Coeur de Lion.
He chose Ingelberga, daughter of Vlademar, king of Denmark. The union had hardly been solemnized when Philip,	i
began to show an uncontrolled aversion to Ingelberga, whom all contemporary writers agree in describing as a most virtuous and accomplished princess. A false pretence fl of kindred was got up, and some renal Bishops assembled at Compiegne and pronounced the divorce. When the poor queen was brought before their tribunal, whose language she did not understand, and when she was made aware of ‘ the sentence, she exclaimed: “Rome! Rome!”—the cry of outraged innocence appealing to the supreme tribunal, to the champion of right, to the refuge of the wronged.
(to be continued.)	j
—'	I
BY J. M. J. G.	|
. I.
In the ancient city of Candahar,
Near the flowery realms of the morning star
And. the court of the god. of Day,
Long ages since,
There lived a prince, Zymbl, the son of Hyder Shah. He was fair as a lily of Cashmere vale Or a rose of Paradise;
And as brave—but many an Eastern tale
Is fall of his vast emprise : •
Suffice to say
That Bajazet, nay,
Great Timur himself, in his battle array, Never did such daring, doughty deeds As princely Zymbl.
But we must die, all!
So weeping filled the pleasant groves, And women prayed and men grew pale, When they buried the priuce where turtle doves Linger to hear the nightingale.
ii.
. The musky breath of purple morn Breathed joyfully o’er hill and dale, And mortals died and babes were born, And so went on the old, old tale;
Yet women wept,
And sad men crept
Unto the grave where Zymbl slept, And crowned his tomb with flowers :
But, or remembered or forgot, The princely sleeper heeded not.
For, rags or purple, well ye wot,	I
Must undergo the common lot,	I
In hut or regal towers.	I
Now, when the days were full of gloom	■
And clouds crept down the mountains’ sides,	-J
Both near and far
Through Candahar
Went forth a tale of doom ;
In whispers first, then out it burst,
A tale of all dread tales accurst, That, in night’s ghastly, ghostly gloom
A thing was walking in the land, A festering, foul and loathsome ghoul, A livid form without a soul:
’Twas It, the clay Qf Prince Zymbl!
nr.
And who first saw the awful thing ?
A poor Pariah. Straightway he Ran to the Prince’s sire, the king, *
J
THE SCHOLASTIC.
133
Big with portentous mystery.
Then uprose Hyder from his throne, Flashed forth his cimeter—	.	"
An instant, and the head had flown
From the luckless messenger.
(’Twixt me and you,
’Tis always so,—
Truth makes kings look exceeding blue.)
** Cast forth that carrion to the birds,”
The furious monarch cried ;
“ Son of the slavish, thieving Kurds, The coward dog has lied ! ” Stepped forth six chamberlains in haste
To bear the,body out,
When lo ! they huddled there aghast^
For, thrilling loud, a shout
Went up before the royal gate
Witihn the monarch’s balls;— See ! there !—Beside the dead—a Fate I Each heart with horror thralls 1 ’Tis It, the fearful, festering thing, That stands before the quaking king, A hideous ghoul, Without a soul, A shape that once was Prince Zymol.
iv.
In word a’nd deed the king was great—
His fame was blown afar, And poets sang the happy fate
Of sunny Candahar ;
And where the sacred river rolled
Into the Indian Sea
Its freight of death and sands of gold
■Men praised his majesty. .
But kingly birth
Belongs to earth, .
And monarchs are of mortal girth,
Though some forget
That little debt
Which ends their pride and royal mirth. The trembling despot shuts his eyes .
And opens them again;
Affrighted nature speech denies— His heart grows still with pain ;
The haughty sense of power is gone, He finds himself—a man;
The foolish godship farce is done— Now, save himself who can.
Gut rushed the chamberlains and guards, Fear lent each foot a wing,J
Rushed forth the pipers and the bards, And, after them, the king:
And silence fell upon the throne ’ And in the gilded halls;
No sound was there, not e’en a groan, Save the measured footfalls
Of It, the foul and livid form.
Whose iced, glassy eye
Already bore the fated worm Which lives when mortals die.
v.
Fling to the echoing night the sounds Of revelry and glee,
For the blood grows warm and hearts beat high ’Mid pleasure’s ecstasy;
No thought to-night
To gall Time’s flight, -Let wisdom wait to morrow’s light P’ So spake the Vizier Mirza Khan, Of Hyder’s realm the second man;
And smiling here, And bowing there,	■
He looked so pleasant all began To cheer the chief of the Divan.
His turban bore a Princess’ dower
Of gold and gems beside,—
For every diamond some poor Giaour,
Some weary slave, had died-;
Their rays, on earth, were sparkling white,— Before the Lord, all red,
And they cried before His Throne of Light
For vengeance on his head—
A curse on Mirza’s head.	.
Away reflection! Virtue, hence!
We’ll none of you I on with the dance I
Then, with a dulcet harmony
’ Of harp, guitar and lute,
Sotf sways the body melody
Till wonder’s self grows mute>	'
And diamonds flash on beauty’s brow,
And white plumes flout the air ,
And ladies smile, and great men bow, .
In the sensuous midnight glare,—
“Hark! Hush I” Khan Mirza, said
Grew still the night’s uproar,	,
Each eye a face of terror read,
As all gazed at the door;
Uprose a shriek as from the land of woo,
When, slowly up the hall,
With measured footfall,
Moved stony on, in cerements of death,
Thecursed, ghastly thing
Without a soul;
The pallid, damp-browed thing, .
Worse than a ghoul,	.	„
The fetid clay that once was Prince Zymol— Then from the marble halls the revellers fled, But Mirza’s diamonds flashed upon him—Dead?
,	vi.	. .
Sweet are the orange groves, the moonlit vales Of lovely Candahar,
Alive with tender notes of nightingales
Beneath the midnight star;
Fair are the golden mountain tops at mOm ’ When silvery cloudlets break,
And, in soft melodies, the hunter’s horn
Echoes o’er stream and lake
“ ’Tis beautiful! ’tis beautiful!”
The Princess Zara cries,
To watch, reflected in the lake, The blush of fairy skies—
To watch the solemn twilight creep, Across the smilng eve—
The sombre shadows grow more deep, And gentle fancies weave.
0 sinking sun I thy bright uprise "
Shall light my bridal morn
And ”—Here she stops and sudden criesi,
Her hopes all dead unborn,
For moving slowly, surely on
Across the green parterre
A figure, festering livid, wan,
With fixed, lifeless stare,
Darkens the beauty of the scene
A moment,—then is gone,
And Zara dies among her flowers, alone I
O form accurst! what crime— .
What dreadful deed of wrong
Hath drawn thee back to time
And earthly scenes among ?
But, creeping on,.	.	. ;
134	•	THE S
CHOLASTIC.
The horror fades away
From the pale face of day
To some far goal
Where, mayhap, fires more dread than Ghebir loves Fret the lost soul
Of this dark midnight ghoul, This hideous It that erst was Prince ZymoL
vir.
Near Candahar a dome of Boudha stood Upon the mountain side,
Where, sacred legends say, great Sakya wooed Fair Wisdom as a bride
Five thousand bonzes bowed
Before the shrine
And ugly gods endowed
With power divine;
Each holy fellow was robed in yellow And his song was deftly soft and mellow;
The prayer-wheel creaked on its pious round And the portly bonzds smiled at the sound
Of the tinkling bell That seemed to tell How their prayers with Boudha mercy found. Of flageolets there was no lack Made from the bones of mountain yak, And the sacred hill Grew sharp and shrill
As the pipers piped by that prayer mill;
They beat tam-tams, Blew horns of rams, And bawled anathemas uncivil
That unbelievers
And such deceivers
Might, could or would go to the devil.
Uprose the bonzd chief to speak:— »• My brethren--” here he gave a shriek,
Then, with a face pale as the dead He sprang six feet, and, howling, fled, As when a herd of swine
At sound of horn
Bush down a hill to dine On luscious corn, So rushed the bonzes from their holy place Each with a horrid cast upon his face, In through the city gates they gasping pour Frighting th’ amazed welkin with uproar, Some fell and stayed, And some few prayed, While many dropped their holy mask and swore, But from the mountain knoll A bell began to toll, Swung by the ghoul, The form without a soul, The livid portent of the Prince ZymoL
VIII.
Then Hyder anxious grew
When through his palace gate The yelling bonzes flew, Pursued by Zymbl’s Fate.
Uprose he with stern visage from his throne, And thus he spake >—
“ Sword-bearer, get thee to the street, Enroll each doughty man that thou shall meet; ' Seize on this monster; tear It into shreds, And cast the members into our lime-beds! ”
The warrior salaamed to the very floor, Strode from the presence, martial to the eye, But when the lackey closed the brazen door, Swashbuckler wept and cursed his destiny “ May Shetan grip the bonzds all
And burn their temple down, • ’Twas they that brought this dog Zym&l To fright our honest town.”
(Whate’er the task, great kings must be obeyed, Or good or bad ’tis little heed to them;
Obedience quick and ready—or you’re flayed,—
Such is the rule of monarchs, sons of Shem.)— Well, to be brief, The troubled chief
Found, to his very great relief
Some honest, gentlemanly Thugs And they agreed, If duly feed, To slice th’ importunate monster’s lugs,—
The deed was done,
The fee was won, Of lime, lay o’er each limb, a ton;
And, then, the much relieved king
Sent forth swift heralds far and wide
To tell the publie everything, And roundly swear that Rumor lied If aught were said that touched his pride, (Some rogues had said that, trembling as a mouse, The king had lain perdu in his ash-house.) The happy Hyder called his subjects forth
Unto a mighty feast;
Delighted crowds came from the south, the north, The west, the golden east, From regions far To Candahar.
A wondrous multitude,—
A rushing mountain flood,
Whitened the plains with tents,
Eager for bhang, hasheesh and tournaments.
Amid the scene, the monarch’s throne was raised^ And on the throne sat Hyder’s majesty ;
Disinterested bards his glory praised And pseans piped to his prosperity ;
But silence grew
Among that crew
And all, even Hyder, looked most awful blue,
When, coming towards them, lo! the thins With solemn step and slow,
Moved silent on,—but here, the king Leaped to the crowd below.
Roaring with fright, blows right and left be deals, Then, with the mob behind, takes to his heels
And never stops till, quiet as a mouse, He buries royalty in that ash-house.— Stood there in mocking scorn, The hideous form alone, The festering ghoul, The clay without a soul,
IX.
The putrid It, that once was Prince ZymoL That night upon th’ horizon’s edge
Hung pale the watery moon : Grey mists rose from the river sedge, While, like some wild cartoon. The clouds took shapes grotesque and strange
As fever’s phantom broods,—
’Twas one of Nature’s fantasies— One of her weirdest moods;
A night when deep, mysterious fear Casts o’er the soul a spell,—
That warns man of ill presence near— Of spirit forth from hell;
When timid arid belated eyes
People the mystic gloom
That frowns between the nether skies
THE SCHOLASTIC.
185
And. lonely churchyard, tomb.
Now, far away, among the shadowy hills The storm its thundering legions gathered, And night’s dark solitude quick thrills
With fires from troubled heavens scattered.— At that hour came
A poor Feringhee,—Thomas was his name,' His brow was peaceful as a little child’s, And peace went forth in wilds Where erst confusion dwelt When he, in words of love, Spake a sweet history, Of One—a gentle Dove, Whose Life was mystery, And how, amid a Universe in woe, He brought redemption for the lost below,— Out from the Eastern gate, Stole forth the awful Fate-
Out from the City now all desolate, For, beggar, lord and king Had fled before that thing— That grim and ghastly portent of the tomb;
And Candahar’s high domes
Looked down on silent homes, Their inmates gone, as from a threatened doom.
The stranger saw the sight In the dim and ghostly night, Without fear:
He saw It’s outline darken the moon’s dise, ’ Then fade into the grey beyond: He made a sign, when lo I the solitude—
As though ’twere touched by some enchanter’s hand— Poured forth an army of the hapless damned: They seize the soulless thing, The awful, festering form, And round about It fling
Hell’s furious, fiery storm, And then adown vast cataracts of flame The moaning myriads pour, crushed by a Name.
But, from that fearful goal
That fruitless, hopeless shore, The thing without a soul—	’
The accursed, livid ghoul—
The form of lost Zymol, Came back to earth no more.
All ye who may this legend read—
This tale of Prince Zymol—
Pause, for a little while: take heed
Of your immortal soul: For, if a body hideous be, Like his, in mortals’ sight, What must the soul in sin appear , Before the realms of Light?
—One of Barry Cornwall’s Last Letters.—Barry Cornwall, whose recent death severs almost the last link between the past and and the present generation of literary men, will long be remembered and beloved, even by those unacquainted with his own literary merits, as the father of Adelaide Anne Proctor, who ranks, as a modern poetess, second only to Mrs. Barrett Browning, and whose life was, in itself, so noble and exquisite a poem. Receiving the inestimable grace of the Faith towards the close of a sweet life, which was surely and deliberately worn away in the service of the poor of London, she died the death of the pure and the just, on the 2nd February, 1864 The following touching letter was addressed by Barry Cornwall to one who, the day after receiving it, was baptized into the Holy Catholic Church, a happiness which is
always associated by him with the pure and gentle influence which Miss Proctor’s poetry exercised over bis heart and mind:—“32, Weymouth street, 14: h November, 1870 Dear Sir,—I have this morning received your book and your letter accompanying it. Although I can scarcely write ([ ahi 82), I will try to thank you for it, and to read -the book hereafter. I should have thought, from the character of the lines, you must have been more than IB. But sense and wit come early when connected with sensibility. I observe that names are connected with one or two poems which are familiar to me. There is, for instance, the name of my poof daughter, who died three or four years ago. There is the name of Tennyson, whom I have long known, and of Lord Byron, whom I remember in my youth. I was, in fact, at Harrow School with him and with Sir Robert Peel, about the year 1801. You see I speak of everything in the past tense; so I shall be amongst the past very shortly. That I shall die and be forgotteu is one of the consequences of living at all. You will excuse all this vapid nonsense from a man who has lived into his second childhood. I used to know Newcastle-on-Tyne— now I forget everything.
The rare phenomenon of the transit of Venus across the disc of the sun, which will attract all scientific eyes on the 4th of December next, was observed for the first time in history, says the Echo, under rather touching circumstances two centuries ago. According to a memoir recently issued ■, a young student named Horrocks had devoted himself, with true scientific ardor, but without any instruction, to the study of astronomy., and had calculated for himself that a transit of Venus ought to occur on a certain 24th of November, when the extant authorities had announced that none would take place during :hat century. Poor young Horrocks was curate of a little village named H<>ole, near Preston. The 24th of November proved to be a Sunday, and the hour when he expected the transit, that of his evening service, for the performance of which it was impossible for him to find a substitute. As he wrote to his only friend and fellow-student, a young man named Crabtree,he watched the sun—now clear, now clouded—from dawn till the afternoon, and then, as he could not forsake his solemn duty for such an “ornamental pursuit” as astronomy he sorrowfully went to his little church and got through his duties. When he returned, lo! the clouds had all cleared away, and the image of the sun, reflected on the paper he had prepared, showed the small round black spot of the planet impinging on its disc. In the midst of his ecstasy, Horrocks had sufficient command over himself to make acute observations, which have since been the base of much useful astronomical calculation. But the career thus brightly opened, and which promised such scientific triumphs, was very shortly arrested. Horrocks died suddenly at the age of twenty-eight.
Orign of Tom Collins.—Many years ago—about 1849 or ’50, we think—Mike Walsh, member of the Legislature of New York, publisher of the Subterranean, a weekly newspaper, a wit and companion of Brady, Graham, and others of the brilliant young lawyers of New York, in the bar-room of the Broadway Theatre—then new-made a bet with one of his companions (we think Brady.) that he would make one Pat O'Brien the most-eagerly-sought-f<>r man in the city of New York in less than two weeks. Said Pat was one of the ordinary saloon loafers about the place. The wager—suppers a d champagne—was, of course, taken. Walsh immediately posted many of the prominent hotels and saloons that Pat w ould be inquired for, and to send the inquirer to some other place. It took, and in less than one,week all Manhattan was anxious about Pat.
By the way, Walsh was the originator of the ten-hour law in the New York Legislature, and pressed it to a successful issue. We t bink old New-Yorkers of about ’48 and 49 will recollect him, and how often he was imprisoned for libels in the Subterranean.—Ex.
136
THE SCHOLASTIC,
Th® Scholastic, Published every Week during Term Time at NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TBBM8: Oneyear........................>1 00
Single copies (Bets.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
—The subject of Higher Education is now the great question of the day with Catholics. The Church never was the enemy of science; on the contrary, to the Church science owes more than’ scientists will admit for the progress whieh it has made. It matters not which branch of science you examine, you will find that among its great leaders Catholics hold a high place, and .not only Catholic laymen, but priests and religious. We might even show that in the Catholic Church are to be found more real scientific men than in any other religious body. But it is not our intention to boast of what the Church has done. We wish in this short article to call the attention of all the students to the necessity of higher education for the people generally.
This is an age of false science. Scholars having rejected the Authority of the Church, having discarded the principles of true philosophy, have propounded theories of the most extravagant and pernicious nature. The mass of the people have been captivated by modern sophists and have given full assent to their teachings. They do not recognize the falsity of the theories of the modern scientists, because they are unable, from want of a higher education, to detect the fallacies on which these theories have been built. This being the case, it is the duty of all Catholic young men to give themselves to those studies which will enable them in after-life to detect the false reasonings of the great leaders of modern and unphilosophical thought. Were men destined for this world alone.aknoweledge of the rule of three, and book-keeping, would be sufficient for their wants. Were all men docile to the teachings of the Church, it would not be necessary for young men to devote themselves to scientific and philosophical studies. But as it happens that nearly all persons, when they enter upon the great field of life, come in contact with men holding all kinds of opinions and theories, it is necessary for them to obtain such an education as will enable them to successfully hold their own against all comers. This is accomplished only by a thorough course of philosophical and scientific studies. Now these studies are not to be mastered in a few years.
Now, in order that a young man receive a good education, it is necessary, in addition to his common-school course, that he go through seven or eight years course of studies as marked down in the curriculum. There are very few persons who can make two years of the course in one. Yet how many young men are there not who feel as though they are able to make even three years of their course in ten months ? It would be far better were some of these young men to take two years to make the studies marked in the curriculum for one, than to endeavor to make in one year the studies marked down for two. In the times of St. Thomas, a ten years’ course of philosophy
was studied. Nowadays young men make their philosophic course in one; yet when in after days they discover how little of philosophy they really know, they feel that a two years’ course would not have been more than they required to become well informed in thia branch of learning
We have here at Notre Dame many promising young men. Most of them in the Classical and Scientific Courses recognize the truth when we tell them that they should not attempt to finish their course in less time than is marked on the catalogue. They believe that no author marked in the course should be omitted. But there are some students here, as there are in all colleges in America, who are anxious to finish their school-days as soon as possible; who would attempt to “do” a two-years’ course of studies, in ten months were they allowed; who bother and annoy the Director of Studies with their demands -that they be promoted out of their proper year. All these we would advise to keep up to their class; they may find it quite difficult to do so. But if they would receive & thorough education we would beg them most earnestly not to endeavor to leave their class for a higher until those in charge of their studies see fit to promote them.
—One of the most commendable practices of devotion which is perpetuated by the piety of the students is the custom of attending the daily Mass in the College Chapel. It is the duty of all those who understand what is meant by the Sacrifice of the Mass to consecrate the first moments of the day to this devotion. There is no human act so deserving of merits or so fruitful in blessings as the devout attendance to this great Mystery; and it matters not what may be the pressure of study, and scarcity of time in which to learn a difficult lesson, he who first discharges to his God his tribute of Christian love and gratitude chooses the better part and will be rewarded for it. No consideration will divert him who knows the efficacy of the Holy Sacrifice, from the pleasing duty of attendance at it; for he knows well that the time spent with God is not a loss, but areal gain; for while he' gives his little time to the Master of all knowledge, he will in return receive from Him a goodly share of wisdom. If we might view spiritual things in a business point of view, the honor we give to God in the first half hour of the morning is good policy. The interest which we receive on our investment must needs be high. What matters it that the lessons are long and difficult, that the “duties" to be done for class are hard, and that the time at our disposal isshort—is not God all-powerful, and can He not render all things easy to comprehend, quicken the understanding, aid the memory and . make things clear to us which would otherwise demand -hours upon hours of reflection and research,
St. Thomas’ great school was at the foot of the Crucifix. There he gained from God his great fund of knowledge. Let the students make the chapel their great study-room, where they will receive the teachings of God; not that they are to neglect study—but, consecrating the first moments of the day to God, and devoting the remainder of their time to hard study, God will assist them and enable them to learn more than they would otherwise be able to do.
Those who through fear of a little exertion or of a loss of time do not attend the daily Mass lose the best of means for securing not only their spiritual but their temporal I good. The want of faith is the cause of the lukewarmness 4 i
THE SCHOLASTIC.
137
which God condemns, and is the real obstacle to a better policy. He who attends the daily Mass will necessarily be filled with the spirit of faith, and will receive the gift of appreciating the advantages which are offered to students in their college days—advantages for which in after-life they will look in vain.
Eersoa&l.
—Father Cooney is expected daily.
“•Bro. Peter is flourishing in Watertown, Wis.
“P. J. O’Connell is thriving in New York city.
' “-Lew Hayes, of ’74, was here on a visit last week. “Rev. John Ford is getting along finely at St. Joe. “Mr. Dill, of Pana, Ill., was with us on the 28th ult. “Father Spillard is in good health in Austin, Texas.
' “M. B. Torbett, of ’73, is clerking in Nashville, Tenn. —W. C. StillWigen is practising law in Pittsburg, Pa. “Jno. O’Rourke, of ’72, is doing well in Pittsburg, Pa. “Fred. Williams, of ’64, is doing well in Lafayette, Ind. “P. Dechant, of '67, is practicing law in Franklin, Ohio. “John Coppinger, of ’68, is practicing law in Alton, Ill. —H. B. Keeler, of’69, was also here on a visit last week. —Carpenter, the halter, called at the effice the other day.
—Jno. F. Wolfe, of’73, is with H. J. Gillen in Ottawa, in. .	-	.
—Henry Wisner, Esq , of Chicago, was at the college on the 2nd.	’
—G. F. B. Collins, of ’59, is in the law business in Chi* cago.	'	.
—C. N. Riopelle, of ’61, is practicing law in Detroit, Mich.	•
—John Fleming, of ’68, is practicing law in Burlington Iowa.	’
J
—T. Naughton, of ’OS, is practicing law in New York city.	’	'
—Rev. J. A. O’Connell is to teach the new Class of Dogma.
—W. B. Smith, of ’67, is in the real estate business in Chicago.
—Andrew Corrigan, of ’50, is Assessor of the South Side, Chicago.
—Thos. Oldshue, of ’67, is practicing medicine in Pittsburgh, Pa.
—Rev. P. Glennen, of ’52, is at St. Athony’s, near St. Paul, Minn.
—W. J. Fletcher is in the grain business with his father, in St. Lou is.
—Anthony O’Reilly is in business with his father, in Reading, Pa.
—E. Von Donhoff, of ’69, is practicing medicine in Louisville, Ky.
—Hugh Gillen, of ’65, keeps the largest dry goods store in Ottawa, Ills. ’	.
—Jno. Joyce, of ’61, is in business with his father in Washington, D. C.
—John Boyle, of last year, is keeping books for his father in Cincinnati, Ohio.
—J. D. Murphy, of ’68, is now Proof-reader in the Age Office, Philadelphia, Pa.
—W. R. Spalding, of ’68, an old editor of the Scholastic, is studying in Rome.
—Samual Wetzler, of ’52, is now Editor of the Ohio Eagle published in Lancaster, Ohio.
—C. Villeneuve and J. Van Dusen, of ’74, are attending the Medical College in Chicago, Ill.
—We again ask our friends to send us as many personals of the old students as they are able.	.
“Cornelius O'Leary, M. D., of ’52, is Pofessor of Classic9 in Manhattan College, near New York city.	‘
—-Bro. Gabriel is not to go to La Salle, as we announced in our last number, but will remain in Watertown, Wis.
—Our old friend, L. Hayes, spent a few days with us last week. He told us that he intended coming back in a few weeks to remain the rest of the year. We are glad of it.
—Will J. Clarke, A. B., son of J. C. Clarke, has commenced his legal studies under Hon. M. A. Dougherty. Will is a graduate of Notre Dame University, and no doubt Will make a brilliant lawyer.—Ohio State Journal.
—Father O’Mahony had a narrow escape in South Bend; while they were digging for the bodies buried under the bricks of the wall which fell at the Studebakers’ works, he was bit on the head by a large board which fell from an adjacent wall, and was knocked to the ground. . .
Local Items.
—Slush!	.
—Muddy!	.	.
—It’s coming.	-
—Will you trade ?
—Good sleighing.
—Christmas is coming.
—Don’t spit on the floor.
—“And still they come!”
' —Say now, give us a rest I
—How do you like “ It”?	.
—“He can hit him if he wants to."
—He who laughs last, laughs best.
—Everything is quiet at Bro. J.-.mes.
—Rumor has it—a new recreation-hall.
—The Circulars were sent off last week,
—See Smith & Holloway’s advertisement.
—“ Grand right and left ”—“ take it easy.”	.
—Prof. Ivers’ sleigh is quite a nobby affair.
—But few promonaders on the Senior walk.
—Bulletin meeting last Wednesday morning.	■
—Prof. Tong had the first sleigh of-the season.
—Snow-balling is all the “go” with the Minims,
—The Class of Dogma will commence next week.
—The Minims have fine skating.on their sidewalk.
—The Bulletins were all sent off on Thursd ly last.
—The roads were lively with sleighs this last week.
—The 2nd Grammar (Senior) are preparing a debate.
—Don’t waste your time, and don’t waste anybody else’a
—The barber does a thriving trade here on Wednesdays.
—Two heads are better than one—especially in a flourbarrel.
—They are taking down the scaffolding in the new church.	■
—“New caps” on all. Broad-faced persons should not wear them.
—Additions on a small scale are made to the Museum every week.
A black bird with red wings was seen here on the 8th of November.
—Will E. J. McP., in Memramcook' fulfil his promise and seud letter ?
—The “Ave ATaria” editorial room is being brushed up. It will be nobby.
—Prof. Lyons has the best selection of works on Elocution in the country.
—The Laboratory under the care of Mr. Zahm is increasing every month.
—On Tuesday last was the Month’s Mind of Rev. Father Lemounier.
—Rev. Father Golovin will lecture in Chicago to-morrow, at St. James’ Church.	.
138
THE SCHOLASTIC.
—“Fox and Geese” is the only out-door sport indulged in by the Senior Department.
—The Exhibition will take place on the 10th. It is expected to be one of the very best.	'
—The Scholastic is worked off on South Bend paper. Beach & Keedy are the makers.
—Father Golovin delivered an interesting lecture in the Collegiate study-hall on Tuesday last.
—For the benefit of all, the stone steps in front' of the College have been covered with boards.
—The Excelsiors, the champian base ball players of Notre Dame, had their photograph taken.
—The Infirmary is now visited twice a day by the College authorities, to see that no “ loafing ” is done.
—Before purchasing your Clothing try the Star Clothing House, 113 Michigan street, sign of the big star!	dec5-lm
—A snake was killed here on the loth of November. A snake has never been seen here at this time of the year.
—Autograph-books are going the rounds. There are some excellent specimens of handwriting in most of them.
—Arrangements have been made for the publication of the grand lithograph of the college grounds, in January next.	•
—As Winter is now fully upon us we have done away with our item of out-door sports. Next Spring it may appear again.
—“A play upon words,” as he who had charge of the “Extinguisher” said when he deluged the manuscript play in the Hall.
—The second Conference of the year was held in the Presbytery Library-room on Wednesday last. It was well attended.
—G. Silberberg, of the Star Clothing House, is determined to close out his entire stock in the next 30 days. Give him a call.	deco-lm.
—The articles on “ The Days of Old” will be commenced in our next number. They will begin with the recollections of the year 1844.
—There was a crust of ice on the lower lake this last week. It was suggestive of coming sport. The sun, however, dissolved it all.	’
—If you wish to buy Hats, Caps or Furnishing Goods, go to the Star Clothing House, 113 Michigan street, G. Silberberg, Proprietor.	dec5-lm.
—We were shown a California pear ten inches long and weighing fully a pound and a half It was presented by Max Katzauer to Mr. Edwards.
—Subscriptions continue to come in every day. The old students are sending in their names, and we expect a circulation of 1500 copies before the end of the year.
—The Star Clothing House, 113 Michigan street, is closing out the entire stock of Ciothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods at slaughtering prices.	deco Im.
—The Reading-room under the charge of Af r. Edwards will be opened in a short while. All should take advantage of this institution and keep themselves posted on the news of the day.
—The Lemonnier Circulating Library Association return their thanks to the publishers of the “Ace Maria” for handsomely printing two thousand labels for books.
J. F. Edwards, Librarian.
____All persons should remember that unless they are asked by the Director of the Society to attend the rehearsal, they should not attend it. They are simply in the way of those having parts, and are a bother to the Director.
____The rumor has reached us that the upper part of Washington Hall is to be used as a recreation-room. We understand that at first it was intended to build small wings in the rear of the building, the upper stories of which were to be used as dressing-rooms and the lower as recreation-halls.
—We understand that a lamp is to be placed in the front of the old church. This will be well, as both prefects and students find it quite difficult to make their way in the
dark while returning from Vespers. It would not be anything amiss if the rubbish in front of the old church were removed, as it causes considerable disorder in the ranks, tripping many a luckless fellow over.
—How often must we notify writers to'sign their names towhat they write? The persons who write even squibs must be responsible for what they write. Unless the name is signed, the writer need not expect to see his piece in The Scholastic. Initials won’t do; there are too many persons here for us to hunt up whose initials are signed to a paper. “ T. E. H.” are the only initials we recognize.	*
—The Librarian of the Lemonnier Circulating Library was kept very busy last Wednesday pasting in the new labels for his books. We again urge all to subscribe to the Library and make use of the many books on the shelves. The old Society libraries were, to a certain extent, failures. It was impossible to keep the books from being lost. Each year the libraries became smaller. Under the present arrangement the books are preserved, the library increases, and all are satisfied with the manner of conducting it. Subscribe and read, is what we say to all the students.
Subscribsrs to the Lemonnier Memorial Chapel-	.
Miss Marie Lemonnier, France,...................... §500	00
A Friend, Notre Dame, Ind.,......................... 500	00
Rev. F. O’Mahony, South Bend, Ind.,................ 20 00
Prof. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.,................. 50	00
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Notre Dame, Ind.,.............. 100	00
Prof. W. J. Ivers, Notre Dame, Ind.,............... 10 00
Mrs. W. J. Ivers, Notre Dame, Ind.,...............;	10 00
Miss Masrgie Ivers, Notre Dame, Ind,,................ 10	00
Prof. L. G. Tong, South Bend, Ind.,.................. 25	00
Prof. O. M. Schnurrer, Notre Dame, Ind.,............. 20	00
D. J. Wile, Esq., Laporte, Ind.,..................... 25	00
Master V. Baca,...........;........................... 5	00
“	G. Rouihae................................... 2 50
“	P. Shaul,.................................... 2 00
“	W. Meyer,......................................   100
“ H. McGuire,..................."...................  75
“	J. Haffey,........................................ 50
“	J. French,................................... 1	00
“	G.Thornton,............................... 100
“	W. Darst,................................... 5	00
“	J. Larkins,.................................. 2	00
“	J. Handly,................................... 2 00
“	J. Girard,................................... 2 00
“	J. Schlink,.................................. 1 00
“	A. O’Brien,.................................. 2 00
“	T. O’Leary,.................................. 5 00
“	J. H. Retz,.................................. 2 00
“	F. Kleiner,...................................... 100
“	H. Weber,........................................ 100
Literature.
—Lord Houghton is engaged on a new edition of Keats.
—Mrs. Arthur Arnold is translating Castelar’s “ Life of Byron.” .
—The writer of the article on “ English Fugitive Songs and Lyrics,” in the current number of the Edinburgh Review, is Mr. George Barnett Smith.
—The Christmas story of “ Once a "Week ” is from the pen of Mr. G. M. Fenn, author of “Ship Ahoy!” and is entitled, “ Sixty per Cent.: a Domestic Ditty.”
—M. Guillaume Guizot, son of the illustrious statesman, has been lately in London, engaged in making researches with respect to early English literature, especially that of the Chaucer period, on which he is about to deliver a course of lectures at the College de France.
—Barry Cornwall’s library is to be sold by Messrs. Puttick and Simpson.	•
—Sister Mary Frances Cusack, of Kenmare, has in the press “The Unabridged Speeches and Public Letters of O’Connell,” being a companion-volume to her “Life of the Liberator.”	.
—A nephew of Barry Cornwall, Mr. Bryan 0. Waller,
THESCHOLASTIC.	13^
has in the press a volume of verse, entitled “The Twilight Land,” which will be published by Messrs. Bell and Sons.
—We have received from the Messrs. Benziger Brothers, New York and Cincinnati, a copy of “Daniel O’Connell, A Lecture Delivered in St. Xavier’s Church, Cincinnati, Ohio,” by the Rev P. H. Cusack. The lecture is very well written, and we commend it to all admirers of the great Liberator. It has been published in aid of the poor, and all persons purchasing will in addition to procuring an excellent lecture give material aid to those in want'
—From the Van Beuthuysen Printing House, Albany, N. Y., we have received a lecture by Rev. Jas. J. Moriarty, entitiled “ The Catholic Church in its Relations to Human Progress.” The style of the lecture is pleasing and elegant, and the matter is of such a nature as to interest all.
Art Notes.
—The painting in the church goes on as usual.
—Prof. Gregori has received a number of beautiful pictures from Rome.
—The altar-piece, stained-glass windows, etc., will soon arrive.
—The members of the Drawing Class are making great progress.
. —Very Rev. Father General has many beautiful statues, paintings, etc.
—Prof. Lyons will soon have his photograph gallery of old Cecilians filled.
. —The remaining figures for the mound back of the Professed House will soon arrive from France.
—The Lemonnier Memorial Chapel will be adorned with many beautiful works of art.
—What has become of the large photograph album which was formerly kept in the parlor ?
—The portrait of the late Father Lemonnier, by Prof. Gregori, will be placed in the College parlor sometime during the coming week.
—We were shown some beautiful medals by Mr. Edwards : some were medals presented by the British Government to soldiers who served in the Crimean war. The most beautiful one, however, is a medal presented to Col. Edwards, of Toledo, by his fellow-officers.
Society Notes.
—Prof. Lyons is busy with the St. Cecilians. We learn that their Exhibition will be a grand affair. All are anxiously waiting for the 10th.
—We learn that the Scientific Association will reorganize the 1st week of January.
—The time of the 11th meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was taken up in rehearsal for the Exhibition of the 10th.
_ —We understand that the St. Cecilians intend publishing a little volume containing the lives of all the deceased Cecilians.
—The Ancient Order of Merry Andrews held their first meeting on Wednesday last.
—The 10th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on Sunday, Nov. 29th. At this meeting Master E. Raymond presented himself for membership and was elected by a large majority. A German Declamation was delivered by Master. L. Guetig. After this there was a rehearsal of the play entitled “ Gentleman of the Jury.”
Musical Notes.	'
—The 4th floor of the College is quite musical.
—During Advent, Plain Chant is sung on Sundays. On festivals, such as the Immaculate Conception, the Cecilian music will be sung.
—The Vocal Class will sing at the Exhibition bn the 10th of December—so we learn.	.
—The French song sung at the meeting of the‘Mendelssohn Club on Monday night is destined to become very popular. The pianist of the Club executed an excellent accompaniment.	-
—A glee club will be organized to-morrow. Prof. Paul will be leader.
—The Orchestra will play the overture to Fiddio by Beethoven, and the overture to Fra Diavolo by Auber, at the Exhibition on the 10th. We may expect good.music
—The “ Heavens. are Telling,”—grand Chorus from Haydn’s Creation,- is progressing finely.
—Missa “ Jesu Bedemptor"—by Kaim,—one of the most distinguished among the justly celebrated Catalogue of the Cecilia Society, will be sung by the Choir on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Every member of the Choir should do his best to give a successful rendition of this, the first new Mass of the year; its intrinsic merits have made it a favorite wherever it has been properly sung, and if it does not become such here the fault will rest with ourselves or with attending circumstances.
—Last Saturday morning a new “ Ave Maria," composed by Prof. C. L. Mayr, of the University, was sung at the Mass in the Students’ Chapel. Although sung a little timidly, owing to a want of rehearsal, the composition showed a depth of feeling and a degree of merit which we hope will yet win more than ordinary fame for our talented young composer.
—Outside of the Music Hall, music has been very rare-this session. No concerts or soirees—not even an exhibition to relieve the dull routine of college.life. The favored few who had the opportunity, have heard some very good music during recreation time, among which we must mention especially the Overture from uDer Frenshutz" and selections from “ William Tell," played by Prof. Paul, and Messrs. Carl Otto and C. Walter. Also, Overture to Magic Flute, played by Prof. C. L. Mayr and Mr. G. Roulhac.
Soil of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, R. Barrett, O. Corcoran, L. Chamberlain, J. Caren, J. Crummey, G. Crnmmey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, E. Chalfant, W. Dechant, F. Dovoto, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, T. Flannagan, W. Fullerton, P. Guilloz, E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, J. Handley, T. Hansard, A. Horne, J. Hogan, H. Hoffman, F. Hebard, J. Ingram, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Koph, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, J. .Marks, E. McPbarlin, R. Maas, F. Montgomery, T. Murphy, N. • Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, E. McLaughlin, F. Miller, J. McManus, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Matlimore, E. Maas, J. Nej’, A. O’Brien, T. O’Leary, T. OrManony, C. Otto, C. Proctor, F. Pugh, G. Roulhac. C. Robertson, W. Ryan, E. Ratigan,. J.-Rudge, G. Rudge, P. Skahil,! F. Schlink, P. Shaul, G. Summers, F. Scrafford, F. Wilhelm, C. Walters, R. White, L. Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	’
J. Beegan, A. Byrne, A. Bergek, F. Buckman, G. Budd, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, J. Crummey, E. Courtney, J. Colton, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, R. Downey, W. Davis, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxen, J. French, J. T. Foley, L. Goetig, J. M. Green, J. Griffith, E. Gramling, C. Greenleaf, J. S. Hayes, C. Hake, C. Hitchcock, H. Korty, F. Kleiner, C. E. Leonhardt, P. McBride, J. McIntyre, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, W. S. Meyer, A. Mosser, M. J. Murphy, D. Nelson, J. Nelson, D. J. O’Connell, J. D. O’Hara, C. R. Post, H. W. Quan, W. J. Roelie, F. Raymond, L. Smith, J. A. Smith, W. S. Stout, J. F. Soule, T. J. Solon, C. W. Welty, C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood, N. Vanamee, E. Washburn.
MINIM DEPARTMNT.
Michael McAuliffe, Colly Clarke, Joseph Carrer, R. Golsen, Francis Carlin, Lee J. Frazee, Francis McGrath, Samual Goldsberry, John O Meara, Charlie Campau, Robert Haley, Francis Campau, Charlie Bushey, Sylvester Bushey, Alexis Campau, Eddie Raymond.
140
THE SCHOLASTIC,
Class Honors.
for the week ending Thursday, December b.
COLLEGIATfc COURSE.	’
Senior Class—Tv H. Grier, T. J. Murphy, E. J. McLaughlin J. Hogan, C. Walters.
Junior Class—E. Graves, F. Devoto, Tv Gallagher, J. Caren, J. Gillen, G. Kelly.
Sophomore Class—H. Cassidy, B.L. Euans, J. Brown, Tv Hansard.	'
Freshman Clasp—J. G. Ewing. E. J. McPharlin, M. L. Keeler, M. Foley, J. F. Rudge. J. Kopf, J. Handley, T. McNav Inara, W. Dechant, A. Horne”, Jerome Mathews, J. Ney.
Minim Department—Eddie Riymond, Colly Clarke, Francis McGrath, Oscar Bell, Francis Campau, Tommie Hooley, Louis Goldsmith, Willie Van Pelt, Willie Lindsey, Michael McAuliffe, Clement S. Moody, John Duffield.
List of Excellence
[The Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during five consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—DiRetor of Studies.]
1st-Grammar Class—E. Maas. 3rd Grammar Class—E-. Maas. 2nd Arithmetic Class—E. Maas, C. Favey. Brd Algebra Class—R. Maas. 2nd Grammar Class—J-. W. Connelly. 2nd French Class—K. Walker. 5th German Class—G. W. Hoyt.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
—Prudence Periwinkle has been heard from lately.
—The welcome address to Rl Rev. Bishop Rosecrans from the Seniors was read by Miss L. Bradford.
—The reading in the Refectory at present, is on General Literature. Father Faber’s Bethlehem will be commenced.
—The second No. of Rosa Mystica was read on Sunday, the 29th ult. It was called a “ beautiful paper,” by one whose judgment is most highly esteemed.
—The farewell address to the Rt. Rev. Bishop Gilmour was given from the Seniors by Miss M. Walker, from the Juniors by little Bridget Wilson. The welcome to Bishop Rosecrans from the Minims was pronounced by “little Editha.”
—Wednesday evening the young ladies devoted to a dress-ball. The characters assumed were interesting. Lulu Henrotin as “Lady Washington,” pleased the spectators, and so did Maggie Walker, as “Marie Theresa.” Anna Duncan was the sweetest little “ old lady ” in the room.
—We join with our worthy cotemporary of the Catholic Universe of Cleveland, in sympathy with Mother Mary Angela, Superior of St Mary’s Academy, at Notre Dame, Indiana, in the loss of her only brother, the distinguished Father N. H. Gillespie. With the Universe, ^;e respectfully tender to that afflicted lady our most sincere sympathies. Whom God loves He chastens, and the sundering of earthly ties He ordains as a means of more closely uniting His children to Himself. Maj' the venerable Mother General of the Sisters of the Holy Cross find comfort in these considerations!”—3F. Y. Freeman's Journal.
art notes. ‘
—Among the finished works of the last week is a painting in water colors, seven inches by ten. On this space has been represented, with a delicacy of execution truly admirable, a group of flowers, berries and nuts. The small closed-gentian and pale purple aster of late October, represent the flowers of our American autumn, and give the high light of the picture. This high light is carried out by a spray of pale maple leaves and bunches of the white wax-berry of the woods with their carmine stems. Just below these, cluster the dry. Linden berries that fell so thick on the walk south of Lbreto; close beside these, nestle a bunch of acorns and oak leaves, then branches of the dark green and bluish purple berries of the varieties of
Solomon’s seal; again rising from these, a spike Jof Sumach-berries, so true to the life that we feel like plucking the acid fruit with its velvety covering. The group is crowned by rose-barries and their leaves touched crimson . by the first frosts, and slenderstems of the speckled Alder with its scarlet fruit. This beautiful collection of autumnal treasures, stands relieved against a delicate distance, in which we recognized the spire and dome of Notre Dame, with Lake St. Mary, and the Professed Brothers’ House on t he right, and the Novitiate at the extreme left. We are assured that every part of this has been studied directly from nature, and we can easily believe it, even the atmosphere over the distant dome and the retreating hills is that of out last Indian Summer. This will sometime be a memento beyond price of Notre Dame and St. Marys. The picture has been beautifully framed by one who appreciated its merits.
—The white Cornet flower of the 31th of May, bears a cluster of exquisite red berries, which are ripe by the 13th of October. Both flowers and berries have entered largely into the decorations for both of these festivals at St. Mary’s. A design for a cushion, has just been made, which puts the berries into the hands of the embroiderors. There is no lack of original designs at present. Our young friends must see to it that their skilful fingers do justice to them.
—Some of the costumes on the evening of the 28th were worthy of mention in our Art column. Such costumes, give more thaa, a transient pleasure. They are, really, works qf art; and show not only taste but historic fidelity heightened by a sense of what is beautiful in history.
The Literary Societies, organized in September, stand as follows:
sT. Teresa’s literary society.
Directress—Mother Annunciata.
President—Miss L. Ritchie.
Vice President—L. Bradford.	.
Secretary—A. Smith.	-	'
Corresponding Sec'y.—M. Riley.	,
Treasurer—M. Walker.
Librarian—G. Walton.
The Society is at present engaged in historical reading. st. eusebia’s literary society.
Directress—Sister M. Purificazione,	.
President—Miss Lizzie Ritchie.
Vice President—Miss E. Yorke.
Secretary—M. Faxon.	.
Treasurer—L. Wyman.
Agnes Strickland’s Lives of the Queens of England now engages their attention as reading-matter.
ST. ANGELA’S LITERARY SOCIETY.
Directress—Sister M. Presentazione.
President—Miss L. Hole.
Vice-President—C. Morgan.	'
Secretary—A. Sweeney, Treasurer—M. Quill.
This society is also reading Sketches from Modern History.
TABLET OF HONOR,
FOB THE WEEK ENDING NOVEMBER 29, 1874.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled :
Gbaduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.	.
1st Sb. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, L. Bradford, J. Stimson, E. Sweeney, A. St. Cl air, M Johnson.
2nd Sb. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Daley, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, F. DeLong, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, B. Wade, M. Julius, i

SCHOLASTC
111'
3rd. Sr Class—Misses L. Kelly, M. Dunbar, S. Harris. C. Woodward, M. Walsh, L. Johnson, K. Hutchinson, IM. Quill, M. Brady, P. Gaynor, R. Canoil, L. Henroten, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, R. Klarr, A. Byrnes, M. Roberts, E. Taylor, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, N. Myhan.	.
1st Prep. Class—Misses M. Thompson, E. Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, R. Gieen-leaf, E. Mann, M. Quill, S. Hole, H. Russell, E. Bowman, A. Sweeney, S. Moran.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses H. Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, S. Cunningham, L. Mead, E. Cody, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, B. Turnbull, L. Moran, A. Smith, S.Reisiug, C. West, M. Anthony.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, F. Reppetan, L. Brownbridge, G. Hills, A. Lehman, M. Railton.
ROLL OF HONOR.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Carlin, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Prichard, A. Cnllen, M. Siler, B. Siler, M. Reynolds, D. Allen, M. Jackson, M. Summers, J. Brown, 8. Cash, C. Yates, L. Kirchner, M. Ewing, A. Goewey, F. Middleton, M. Hagan, L. Walsh, L. Hutchinson, J. McDougall, M. Hoffman, A. Koch, E. Lappin, C. Orr, M. Bell, K. Hudson and J. Corrigan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, N. McGrath, N. Mann, I. Mann, M. and C. Hughes, A. McGrath, J. Keedy, R. Golesbury, Y. Mier and L. Schnurrer.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
:	HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses N. Foote, E. O'Connor, L. Henroten, E. Haggerty.
2nd Class—J. Riopelle, J. Kearney. ’
2nd Div.—B. Speucer, J. Locke, M. Riley, A. Smith, E. Dougherty, L. Bradford.
3rd Class—L. Arnold, C. West, M. Jackson, C. Orr, M. Johnson, C. Morgan, A. Curtin, H. Peak.
2nd Div.—J. Bennett, C. Bowman, M. Walsh, L. Walsh, A. Walsh, D. Allen,--Cash, A. Koch.
SCHOOL OF DESIGN.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRAWING.
4th Glass—Misses G. Walton, R. Neteler, A. Cullen.
. 5th Class—M. R. Klarr, A. Koch, M. O’Connor, M. A. Schultheis, M. Ewing, L. Arnold, M. and E. Thompson,’ P. Gaynor, E. Lange, A. Sweeney, J. Stimson, L. Vinson, F. Taylor and E. Lappin.
WATER COLORS.
5th Class—Misses L. Ritchie, L. Henroten, B. Wade, E. Sweeney, C. Morgan and N. McAuliffe.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN LANGUAGES.
1st French Class—Misses J. Kearney, M. Walker.
2nd Div.—Misses M. Poquette, J. Kreigh, L. Tinsley, F. Dilger, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, S. Harris, N. McGrath, B. Wilson, J. Stimpson, K. Joyce.
1st Div., 2nd Class—Misses L. Bradford, A. Clarke, M. Riley, H. Russell, A. Dilger, K. Hutchinson, C. Morgan, A. Lloyd, A. McGrath. ’	'
2nd Div.--Misses E. Haggerty, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, P. Gaynor.
3rd Class—Misses B. Spencer, R. Spencer, L. Wyman, L. Arnold, A. Walsh, J. Bennett, J. Fanning, M. Johnson, M. Daily, C. Woodward, J. Walton, M. Carlin, B. Golsen, A. St. Clair.
■ Latin—Mis«es F. Delong, N. Foote, E. Yoik, A. Byrnes, K. Joyce, E. Quinlan, J. McGuire, E. Sweeney.
1st German Class—Misses E. Dennehey, J. Nunning, S. Harris, A. Lehman, L Kirchner.
2nd Gr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, S. Reising, R. Klarr, L. Kelly.
3rd Gr. Class—Misses B. Wade, H. Peak, F. Middleton, J. McDougall, E. McDougall. -	,
Fancy Work—Misses L. West, A.-Smith, A. Duncan, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, R. Neteler, J. Stough.
Plain Sewing—Misses L. West, A. Lloyd, A. Curtin, D. Green, E. Haggerty, L. Ritchie, A. T. Clarke, J. Fan- • ning, M. Reily, S. Harris, E. Mann, C. Morgan, B. Turnbull, N. Myhan, M. Railton, H. Parks, F. Reppetan.
The Dahlia Review oa Higher Elacitioa.
■The October number of the Dublin, Review has an excellent article on “Higher E location,” a synops.s' of which we clip from the Weekly Register.
The present number of the Dublin Review contains a most interesting and able article on “ The New Scheme of Catholic -Higher Education,” viewed chiefly in regard to the influence which it may be expected to exercise on the infidelity of the day.
The warfare between light and darkness, between good and evil, is ever assuming uew aspects. The Church of God is ever ready to meet the foe.
The battle that has now to be fought is between infidelity and the Catholic Faith. Thoughtful minds on both sides see that these two extremes are the only logical resting-places for the human intellect.
Atheiam is advancing; it is spreading throughout all classes in England. A philosophy which makes doubt the first principle of its existence is gaining ground.
The evil is seen and deplored by those of our Protestant fellow-countrymen who have still preserved some portions of the Faith, but it is little that they can do to stem the advancing tide of evil, for error must be met by truth. Nothing short of the whole Truth of God can counteract error so radical as that which we have to encounter.
In answer to the universal doubt of all things, the Church asserts the claims of implicit reason and of that knowledge of God which is infused into every man ; she completes her work by bringing the certainty of faith before the mind, which, by its very nature, craves for truth, and cannot rest upon doubt.
But there are difficulties. The progress of science is attended with dangers. Truth indeed, is ever one, because it is from God ; but at certain stagts of scientific progress there may be an apparent contradiction between the results of the labor of the human intellect and the doctrines of Revelation. There are difficulties, indeed, on the very face of things. It is necessary that, as far as pcssible, questions which seem to touch the Faith should be explained. The Catholic knows that where an objection is made against his Faith, it is his bounden duty to reject all doubt regarding that Faith. He holds his Faith on the authority of God ; and where the conclusions of fallible human reason seem to contradict it, it is evident that they’ must give way. Yet an objection, plausibly put, may distress and harrass his mind. He has a right to claim from the Church, which has ever been the guardian of science, the best possible explanation of bis difficulty.
While it is the duty of a Catholic to reject all wilful doubt regarding any article of Faith, the Protestant is in a very different position. There is no definite authority to which he is bound to submit. In cherishing a doubt he is probably in no way acting against his conscience. That very right of private judgment, which he is taught to value as his dearest privilege, naturally leads him to question everything. The claims of God upon the intellect of man, and the duty of the intellect towaids God, are, we fear, almost ignored by those who are outside the pale of the Catholic Church.
Now the Catholic University College comes before the world as the clear expression of the homage of the intellect to God. It is no mere place of preparation for the duties of life. Its object is not simply to send forth young men fitted to adorn the different professions they may select.. It will, indeed, do all this, and it promises to do it effectually; but, beyond.this, it
U2
THE SCHOLASTIC.
■will give a scope to the highest exercise of the intellect. It will be a school where science may be pursued for its own sake, but where the intellect will be sanctified by faith and by the constant practice of piety, where it will always be maintained in its true relation to its God and Creator.
In the true relation of the intellect to God it must necessarily find its highest perfection, and in its highest perfection, its most powerful influence. It is, therefore, that we may look forward so hopefully to the action of the Catholic University College on the Rationalism and Infidelity of the age. And not only may we look to the general and necessary effect of higher, scientific, and intellectual culture united with faith, but also the special preparation which it will afford to those who are called upon, as any educated man may be now-a-days, to answer objections and difficulties.
The writer in the Dublin Review has treated the relations of intellect and faith in a manner so clear and so interesting, that we cannot do better than commend his article to the special attention of our readers.
The connection which he points out between a holy life and a firm faith is one which cannot be too much insisted on.
He speaks of the Catholic University College in a spirit of true loyalty to the Holy Father and the Bishops, and in tones of appreciation and encouragement -which must be welcome to all who have this great work at heart.
a journal devoted to
THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Published Weekly, During Term-Time,
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DARE, INDIANA.
Sl.OO PER YEAR.
FOR SALE.
The Magnificent ORGAN now Used in the Church at Notre Dame,
So much admired for its sweetness and power, containing 36 Stops and 1,700 Pipes. PRICE $3,500— to be paid: $1000 cash, and the rest in 6, 12 and 18 months, with interest.
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for $5,000. The reason why it is offered for sale is solely because the place for the organ in the New Church does not admit of its depth, which is 12x18 feet.
Address, Very Rev. E. Sorin, nov 7-tf.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
THE “Scholastic” is the title of a neat little paper published every week, except in vacation, at the University of Notre Dame. The chief object of this paper is to keep the parents and friends of our Students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline at this University and at St. Mary’s Academy, and of the progress of their sons and daughters in these two institutions. For this purr ose, regular weekly reports are given, consisting of the names ol those who deserve, by their excellent conduct, to be recorded on the Roll of Honor, and who by their perseverance andindustry deserve special commendation from their various professors ana teachers. Other reports, relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately informed on all that concerns their children.
The paper also opens a field for aspiring young writers, who might otherwise, through timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactive; while many articles of an instructive and literary-character, from writers of mature mind and ability, render “The Scholastic” a valuable publication for all who desire variety and utility in their .reading. “The Scholastic" consists of sixteen wide two-cornmn pages, ten of which will be occupied -with reading matter and the remainder with advertisements.
Notice to A.cLvertisers :
The Publishers will receive a limited number of Advertisements or “The Scholastic,” and have arranged upon the following list o prices:
One Page,	{per month,) -	$10 00
One Column	“	-	....	6 00
Half Column,	“	....	4 00
One-Third Column, “	-	-	.	-	2 50
One-Eighth Column, “	....	1 50
Address,	Editor of THE SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
J. STAGE,
COUNTY SURVEYOR
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
Orders expeditiously attended to._^
Address (for the present,) Box 32, Notre Dame Post-Office.
nov
CAREENTER HATTER!
105 MICHIGAN St. -	-	- SOUTH BEND,
dec 5-%tf.
THE
BOND HOUSE,
Niles, -	Michigan.
A. McKAY, Proprietor. Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house nov aS-Jstf.
POUNDED IN 1842.
CHARTERED IN 1844.
THIS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred students.
Situated near the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
Terms:
Matriculation Fee. -	-	-	-	-	-$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek inclu-
ded), Washing and Mending of Linens, per session of five-months, --...... 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each -	- 10 00
Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-12 50
Use of Piano, -	...	-	.	.	.	- 10 00
Use of Violin,	-.	-	----2 50
Vocal Lessons J General Class Principles, -	-	- 10 00
'ocal ^essons -j vocal Culture,	-	-	-	-	15 00
Elocution—Special Course, -	-	-	-	-	-5 00
Uss of Library, (per session) -	-	-	-	-	1 00
Drawing, -------	-	15 00
Telegraphy	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	10 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus -	-	2 00
(Classical Course,	-	-	-	-	16 00
Graduation Fee, •< Scientific Course, -	-	-	- 10 00
(Commercial Course, -	-	-	5 00
Doctors' Fees and Medicines at Physician’s Charges.
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the University are charged extra, -	-	-	-	-	35 00
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.	’
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.-
The first Session begins on the 1st Tuesday of September; the second on the 1st of February.
For farther particulars, addres s
Rev. A. LEMONNIER, C. S, O
THE scholastic;
US
THE
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
Particularly Devoted to the Holy Mother of God.
Published Weekly at
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
ENCOURAGED AND APPROVED BY
HIS HOLINESS POPE PHIS IX,
And Many Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the interests ot the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians, but solely to such as love the Mother of Jesus and wish to see her honored throughout the land; commending itself not only to the various pious Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady—such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— but tothe whole community.
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of Mass once a month.	.
a Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four installments within the space of one year.
Terms :
One Year, -	- - -	-	-	-	-	-	$ 3 00
Two Years, ------	-	-	5 00
Five Years, -	-	-	• -	-	-.-	10 00
Life Subscription, -	-	■ -	-	-	-	-2J00
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc, should be addressed to	•
■ Editor of “AYE NARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
JIOTF^E pAME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy I ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing city of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary's is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the reipiirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address	•
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana
NATIONAL HOTEL,
S^outli Bend, Indiana.
At the Lake Shore ’& Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
THOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7 8m
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L GARRITY’S
FACTORY
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy _	_	-	- I5e.
Fine Mixed Candy -	_	-	- 25e.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	-	35e.
Caramels ------ 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c.
Proportionately X>ow Prices to Wliole-. sale Cash Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
-	o24-tf
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
---o--
M. LIVINGSTON & CO",
9-A Micliigan St., South Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURNISHING GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything yon want in our Line will always be found on our .shelves.
Onr Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready--lade or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH* LESS than ihe same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but dotliing is Clicap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Otii’ Yrei’cliiint Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths. Cassi* ■ meres and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o21-tf.
HORTON & PALMER,
DEALERS IN
Pianos, Organs, Guitars, Stools, Covers, Strings,
SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS,
AND ALL KINDS OF
MUSICAL MERCHANDISE.
Instruments tuned and repaired in the best manner and at the lowest prices.
Ho. 72 Washington street, - South Bend, Indiana.
&o24-tf
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., (her Coonley's Drug Store, South /Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which, he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
o24-tf
144
THE SCHOLASTIC
BOOTS & SHOES.
--o-
TO THE STUDENTS!
Before Buying Your Boots and Shoes,
—WE INVITE—
YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION
—TO—
OUR LARGE and COMPLETE STOCK,
SELECTED WITH GREAT CARE
—AND—
Superior to any ever offered in this City.
—o— WE FEEL WARRANTED IN SAYING — THAT—
FROM OUR FACILITIES
—AND—
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE
—IN THE—
Boot and Shoe Business in South Bend,
We can offer greater inducements to buyers than other dealers
We keep Honest Work, Clean Stock, Latest Styles, which we will sell at Low Prices.
> We pledge ourselves to please all who may favor us with a call.	Respectfully,
B. H. BAKER, A Bro.,
1OO Michigan. Street,	.
o24-2m .	South Bend, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend’ as follows:
GOING EAST.
235 a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 33; <’leveland, 2.35 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.38 a. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMa—.n Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p. m. ; Cleveland, 1<> 20
12.27 a m. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 P. m.; Buffalo 4 05 a m.
9.11 p. m. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1 10 p. m.
7.54 p. m. (No. 10) Toledo Express. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a. m., Cleveland 7.05 a m., Bufialo 1'10 P. st.
3.55 p m. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.20 A. M. (No.3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. m.
4.50 a. m (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago, 8 Ou a. si.
5.33 p. st. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives a1 Laporte, 6 55: Chicago, 9.10 p. it.
4.51 p. m. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 5.45; Chicago, 8 00.	.	•
8.00 a. st. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 A m , Chicago 11.10.
7~O a. sr. [No. 71j Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CAllY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MOUSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PERSONS, Siip't Western Division, Chicago.
• W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t
LOtTXSVIZiXiB N. ALBANY & CHICAGO B.B.
On and after bunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albanyana Salem Crossing, as follows:	•
GOING NORTH.	GOINGSOUTH.
Pass..................7 29 p ir. I Pass ......................8	23 p.ic
Freight................2.48	a. st. | Freight ....;.........10	47 a st.
Freight...............8.57 p. 31. i Freight........'...-....4.45 a.sl
Pass..................9.24 a. m. | Pass...................11.23	a.m.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Michigan Central Railroad
Time Tal>le.
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central Railroad leave Niles as follows:
TRAINS EASTWARD.	'
Night Express, --------- 12.45 a Mail. ----------- u.io a
Day Express..........-	-	-	-	-	.	12.12 a
Accommodation, -	-	-- -	-	-	-	-	-	7.35 p
Atlantic Express -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	8.55 p.i
Way Freight, ---------	8.0J a
TRAINS .WESTWARD.
Evening Express, -	-	-	2.35 a
Pacific Express, ---------	4.40	a
Accommodation, --------- g.25 a
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	-	3.57	p
Day Express ---------- 4.35 p ■ Way Freight ----------	1.45	p
AIR LINE DIVISION.
'	EASTWARD.
Mail—Arrives in Niles ------	9.15 p
Three Rivers Accommodation -	-	-	-	-	-	- 7.40 p
Atlantic Express --------- 9.0u p, Way Freight -	10.30 a.
WESTWARD.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles	- - -	- • 6.05 a.
Mail	3.45 p.
Pacific Express -	-	--------- 5.05 a.
Way Freight- ---------- 5.05 p.
.	SOUTH BEND DIVISION. "
Trains lease South Bend—815 a m, 1110 a m, 3.00 p m, 6.30 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8.42 a m, 1140 a m, 3,30 p m, 7.0u p m Leave Niles—6.30 a in, 9.20 a m, 12.45 p in, 4.35 p m.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 a m, 9.o5 a m, 1.20 p m, 5.10 p m.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.00 a m, 7.<iu_p m. “	“	Arrive at Niles—9.30 a m, 7.30 p m.	’
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive—7.00 am’, 9.50 a in, 1.15 p m, 5.05 p m.
Leave—8.20 am. 11.15 am, 3.05 p m. 6.35 p m.
Sunday Trains.
Arrive—8.3) a m, 5.30 p m	Leave —9.05 a m, 7.05 p m.
H. E. SARGENT, Gen’l Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, AgentNotreDame	•

Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
® RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
EEAVE.
ARRIVE.’
♦9:30 a.m.
♦8:00 p.m
♦9:45 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast .Express, via Jacksonville, Hl.,.and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St.Louis and Spri ngfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
♦9:30 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
$6:30 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 .m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:45 p.m.
17:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m
Kansas City Express, via Jackso'n-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.	.	.	„	____
* Except Sunday, t Ou Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex-' cept Saturday. | Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on dll day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	' Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO
PEXUSILVAXIA ClXTRAL DOUBLE TEA0K EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with. Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
fork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. t Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m. I	“	“	6.41 a m.*
3rd train “	'•	9.00. p. m. |	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and.
Maunsfield with trains on Atlantic aud Great Western Railroad. . J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Pbielphia.
F. R. MYEHs. Gen’l Pass and picket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day.