Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 21, 1880. Number 24.
Man’s Mission.
BY SPERANZA.
Human lives are silent teaching— Be they earnest, mild, and true—
Noble deeds are noblest preaching From the consecrated few.
Poet-Priests their anthems singing, Hero sword on corselet ringing,
When Truth’s banner is unfurled; Youthful preachers, genius-gifted, Pouring forth their souls uplifted,
Till their preaching stirs the world.
Each must work as God has given Hero hand or poet soul—
Work is duty while we live in This weird world of sin and dole.
• Gentle spirits, lowly kneeling, Lift their white hands up, appealing
To the throne of Heaven’s King— Stronger natures, culminating, In great actions incarnating,
What another can but sing.
Pure and meek-eyed as an angel, We must strive—must agonize ;
We must preach the saint’s evangel— Ere we claim the saintly prize—
Work for all—for work is holy—
We fulfil our mission solely
When, like Heaven’s arch above, Blend our souls in one emblazon, And the social diapason
Sounds the perfect chord of love.
Life is combat, life is striving, Such our destiny below—
Like a scythed chariot driving Through an onward pressing foe.
Peepest sorrow, scorn, and trial Will but teach us self-denial;
Like the Alchemists of old, Pass the ore through cleansing fire If our spirits would aspire
To be God’s refined gold.
We are struggling in the morning With the spirit of the night,
But we trample on its scorning— Lo ! the eastern sky is bright.
We must watch. The day is breaking; Soon, like Memnon’s statue waking . With the sunrise into sound, We shall raise our voice to Heaven, Chant a hymn for conquest given,
Seize the palm, nor heed the wound.
We must bend our thoughts to earnest, Would we strike the Idols down;
With a purpose of the sternest
Take the Cross, and wait the crown. Sufferings human life can hallow, Sufferings lead to God’s Valhalla—
Meekly bear, but nobly try, Like a man with soft tears flowing, Like a God with conquest glowing, So to love, and work, and die!
The Cause of Ireland’s Distress.
That the majority of the people in Ireland are now in a state of starvation is something that is unfortunately too true. That this sad state of things is to be mainly attributed to bad legislation on the part of England, is another indisputable fact. And from these two facts arises a proposition whose truth [ shall endeavor to demonstrate to the satisfaction, I hope, of every candid and sensible man. The proposition is this:
The Government whose legislation has been instrumental in bringing the people over whom it rules into a state of starvation, and which, having it in its power, fails to use efficient means to remedy the evil—is a tyrannical Government, and as such cannot legitimately enforce obedience on the part of the people.
St. Thomas Aquinas, and all theologians and jurists of undisputed authority, say that a law to be reasonable and obligatory must be for the public good. It must be in harmony with nature, consonant with reason, in keeping with the circumstances of time and place, and never formed for the exclusive benefit of private individuals, but for the common good of all citizens. Such conditions are necessary to render a law binding in conscience, whether the form of Government be monarchical or democratic.
Whenever a Government becomes tyrannical; when it employs the power entrusted to it, not for the protection, but for the oppression of the people—not to further the public good, but lo gratify private interests; when it becomes dangerous to the lives, or ruinous to the liberties and happiness of the people—in every such instance revolution is legitimate. Then, all friendly redress through ordinary legal means being impossible, resistance is lawful, revolution is holy; aye, sanctified by the will of God, who wishes a man to sustain and preserve, not merely for individual interests, but for the common welfare, those benefits for the conferring of which society was originally established. It is true, that he who promotes a rebellion likely to be unsuccessful is the worst enemy of his country, not because rebellion is bad in itself, but because unsuccessful rebellion produces, as all history and common
868
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sense prove, greater calamity than is found in the patient endurance of illegal dominion. But he who rebels where there is some hope for success, performs the strict duty of a citizen bound to prevent the triumph of iniquity.
With such a standard before us, we can very easily bring England into the court of honest Christian public opinion; and, in the face of the desecrated altars, the plundered monasteries, the mouldering castles, the demolished homes, the wholesale evictions, and the starving thousands, ask her whether all this is evidence of a government paternally legislating for the prosperity and interests of the people.
England entered Ireland, not at the call of the nation, but under the impulse of passions most revolting to humanity and religion. There she lived and lives, not by the consent of the people, but solely in pursuit of criminal purposes, and she unblushingly avows that her whole end and purpose is to be the torturer and exterminator of those whom she has unceasingly named aliens in blood and language and religion.
In former times the lands in Ireland were held by tan-istry. The chief or tanist of a clan was regarded as the custodian of the land and the father of his people, to whom by right the soil belonged upon the payment of a certain stipend called “ Lord’s money.” A wise and rigorous code of laws, binding on the chief as well as the peasant, and administered by fearless, learned, and disinterested men, protected each in the full possession of his rights.
During the glorious reign of the so-called “Virgin Queen ” the extermination of the Catholics, the colonization by Protestants, the fines and the forfeitures and the evictions in Ireland commenced. The zealous Elizabeth, having a regard for the spiritual welfare of the Irish papists, sent some Protestant reformers over to convert them; but, strange to say, the Irish papists failed to recognize Saint Peter in the well-meaning soupers, and, as a consequence, stubbornly refused to be converted. Whole regions were depopulated and given to Scotch Presbyterians during this and the subsequent reigns, of James and Charles. One-third of the island was generously divided by Henry II between ten of his barons. James I confiscated 450,000 acres. Upon the defection of the Earl of Desmond 600,000 acres were divided among the British camp-followers, and generous Cromwell bestowed 7,708,237 acres of the best land in Ireland upon his worthy colleagues. In fact, so very generous was this Mr. Cromwell that he gave the stricken inhabitants the pleasing alternatives of going “ to hell or to Connaught”—and they went to Connaught, rather than be an encumbrance to him in the region of woe.
During this period the law! said that no Catholic could hold land without renouncing his religion. A son denouncing his Catholic father and embracing the new religion was, in recompense for his filial piety, placed in possession of his father’s estate. And as the poor, persecuted, faithful Irish clung to the faith of their fathers, and suffered starvation rather than abandon the religion of St. Patrick, they soon found themselves “ beggars in the halls of their ancestors,” and saw the green fields of the Island of Saints and of Our Lady of Knock pass into the polluted and blood-stained hands of the framers of the newly-invented religion.
To the American reader the simple word “ eviction ” has so mild and harmless a meaning that he may not find it easy to realize its terrors for the Irish tenant. To the latter, it means the loss of the home, in which he and his children and his ancestors, for generations, were born.
It means beggary and starvation, or the work-house. The following incident, related by the Most Rev. Dr. McNulty, occurred some time ago in the County Meath: “ Seven hundred human beings,” says Dr. McNulty, “ were driven from their homes on this one day. The sheriff’s assistants employed on this occasion to extinguish the hearths and demolish the homes of these honest, industrious men worked away with a will at their awful calling until evening fell. At length an incident occurred that varied the monotony of the grim and ghastly ruin which they were spreading around. They stopped suddenly and recoiled, panic-stricken with terror, from two dwellings which they were to destroy with the rest. They had just learned that typhus fever held these houses in its grasp, and had already brought death to some of their inmates. They therefore supplicated the agent to spare these houses a little longer; but he was inexorable, and insisted that they should be torn down. He ordered a large winnow-ing-sheet to be spread over the beds in which the fevervictims lay, and then directed the house to be unroofed cautiously and slowly........The wailing of women, the screams, the terror, the consternation of children, the speechless agony of men, wrung tears of grief from all who saw them. I saw the officers and men of a large police force who were obliged to be present on the occasion cry like children. The heavy rains that usually attend the autumnal equinoxes descended in cold, copious torrents throughout the awful night, and at once revealed to the houseless sufferers the awful realities of their condition. I visited them next moaning, and rode from place to place, administering to them all the comfort and consolation I could. The landed proprietors in a circle all around, and for many miles in every direction, warned their tenants against admitting them to even a single night’s shelter. Many of these poor people were too poor to emigrate. After battling in vain with privation and pestilence, they at last graduated from the work-house to the tomb, and in little more than three years nearly a fourth of them lay quietly in their graves.”
In Ireland there is no incentive to improve holdings or reclaim lands, for the omnipresent agent always stands ready to pry out improvements, and, as a consequence, increase the rents. No matter how many improvements a tenant makes upon his holding, he receives no remuneration therefor, and if, by chance, he should displease his landlord by voting an opposite ticket at election, or otherwise ruffle his temper, there are ninety-nine chances out of a hundred he will find himself evicted and thrown upon the road-side next day. And all this is, of course, done in the name of British law.
To say that the present agitation is destructive of the right of property is not true. The original o'wners of the soil are the people who are now tenants upon it; they never got a shilling for it. It was taken from them by force, on one pretext or another. Ireland never was conquered; it was, as I have already shown by statistics, merely confiscated. Some persons tell us that those landlords who now grind down the poor tenants hold the land by right of prescription, and I tell them they do no such thing.' The right of prescription supposes peaceable possession, and peaceable possession the present rack-renting landlords never had.
The leaders of the present agitation in Ireland do not want to take any advantage of the present landed proprietors; all they ask is that the tenants become proprietors by purchas
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
369
ing the land at a fair price, say the Government valuation, and paying for it in installments. In all this, as the Chicago Times truly says, there is nothing communistic or revolutionary. It is strictly within the lines of conservative economy. It is only humanity appealing to humanity, and justice appealing to law.
And now, in the face of what has been said, and in the face of the thousands crying for bread and fuel, I ask every candid reader whether England, unconcerned and looking on with folded arms, is acting the part of a Government legislating for the interests and for the good, of the people ?
A chronic state of famine appears to be the peculiar and exclusive misfortune of Ireland. Whence does It come? From a curse of Heaven? No: she is canonized by christendom as the Island of Saints. From her soil ? No: it is the emerald gem of the world. From want of industry? No: her sons have changed forests and prairies into fertile farms and blooming gardens. From mental incapacity ? No: professors of history in every university in the world are forced to admit that she, more than any other nation, has contributed to civilization. From want of courage? No: her sons have never quailed in any battlefield from the days of Conn of the Hundred Battles or Niall of the Nine Hostages to the time when her warlike sons distinguished themselves in the service of France, Spain, Austria, Engfand,—in the American Revolution, both by land and sea, in the war of 1812 and in the late civil war. But it is not for courage on the field of battle alone they have distinguished themselves, for, as is well known, their toils in this New World of ours in levelling forests, and building railroads and churches are fully as remarkable.
In vain will we seek for the cause of the fell misfortune that makes Ireland the Niobe of nations until we look upon the unscrupulous, disgraceful, and bloody English usurpation.	Veritas.
Kindness.
The poet says, and well:
“ The proper study of mankind is man.”
But we do not presume to treat of a subject which has occupied the attention of the learned of ages, and which to ’ minds not yet illuminated by the light of divine Faith is of all others the most obscure. It would be presumption on the part of a tyro to accept the challenge of a certain Christian philosopher, who says, “ Man is a problem, solve it best who can.” Suffice it to say:	.
“ Man is a being of superior mould,
Whose body’s formed a spirit bright to hold,
‘ Whose soul is after God’s own image made, Which sin has dimmed and darkened by its shade.”
It would indeed be presumption for one merely reading his “humanities” to attempt to fully treat a subject whose subtleties have led the greatest minds of ancient and modern times into error on either side, whether of defect or excess.	*
Let us leave that man to argue the point who says, “ Thy intellect,is weak, thou hast need of a guide in many things.” And let that one prove his thesis who says to man, “ Thou art surrounded by light, walk as thou wilt.”
Man is a social being. His lot, while on earth, is to associate with his fellow-man, and on the proper performance of this depend his happiness and fortune here below, and his eternal bliss hereafter. Deeply engraven on the heart of man is that principle, that truth, “ Do unto others as you
would they should do unto you.” Nor is that law less indelibly written on our hearts that says, “ Cease to do evil, learn to do well.” To do good to others, is not after all so difficult, since a person may sometimes do so from policy; to speak kindly of one’s neighbor is not much more difficult, as a person may simulate or act the hypocrite; but to think kindly of everybody is something more than human. lu this consists the real happiness of not only the individual, but of all with whom he comes in contact; for his words, his conversations and his judgments are only the outpourings of his heart It is only the “ clean of heart ” who shall see God; it is only the upright of heart that are called upon to glorify God. It is only those whose hands are innocent—innocens manibus—and clean of heart, not those whose minds are occupied with vain thoughts, nor those that lay snares for their neighbors, who shall stand in the holy place and ascend to the mountain of the Lord.
There has been a rule given by some who were truly wise, that we should always judge well of an action, and when we cannot excuse the act, at least to excuse the intention. Fraternal correction, of cours3, must be practised, and sometimes this becomes an obligation; yet, if this duty is not performed kindly, and without a spirit of rancor, it does not attain its end.
Kind thoughts are a great boon to the possessor, and such is the opinion not only of modern Christians in general, but also of the ancient philosophers and sages. • Quintilian says in that inimitable work, De Institutions Oratoris, that a man whose mind is not free from vain, frivolous, and distracting thoughts can never become an orator. He must be a good man—bonus vir; in order to be full of his subject he must keep his imagination in continual check, lest his attention be diverted from the subject of his discourse. But see what an influence kindness-kind thoughts, kind words, and kind actions—has in a social point of view.
There are many circumstances that lead man to choose the company of one more than another, but friendship arising from a good motive is, as a rule, founded on some kind disposition which the object of our affection possesses. Similarity of calling, of employment, etc., are in themselves indifferent, and may or may not have for their end the felicity of our neighbor; but kindness in any, or in each and every one of its three stages—in thought, in word, in deed, or act—is a power contributing considerably towards miking the world happy. Kindness is an overflowing of self upon others. It adds sweetness to everything. We put others in our own place, and treat them as we would wish to be treated. The state of the world would be almost reversed, if we were all actuated by kindness. In what does this charity consist which “ envieth not, dealeth not perversely, is not puffed up, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth with the truth, beareth all things, be-lieveth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things”? Does it not tell us that it is patient, and kini? This kindness, this charity, is the fulfilment of the law.
Take a student who is placed among hundreds of young men to whom he has no personal attachment, and ask him, after a short space of time, why he chooses such a one for his companion ? He will surely answer, “ he is a good fellow: I like him; he envies nobody; he speaks well of everybody, and never loses an opportunity of doing one a good turn.”
Kindness on which friendship is founded should be mutual. The definition, as well as I can now remember,'given
370
THE'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of friendship by the prince of Roman orators and philosophers is in substance what we have already said. Such also were the sentiments of two noble Christian youths, who formed in a pagan school that bond of friendship cemented by kindness, which was inseparable even by death, and was rather to be perfected beyond the grave, where there is the eternal fruition of Him of whose kindness there is no end.	P. J. M.
Winter.
There is a beauty, a charm about the winter season, that is more easily felt than described. The great snow-storms, the heavy frosts, the boisterous and sweeping winds—all seem to present a feature of their own, at once charming, pleasing, and grand. One day, we see Nature decked in a snow-white mantle; another, in one of rich olive color; and yet a third, in a combination of olive, white, and green. If we go forth on a clear winter’s day, what a splendid landscape meets our view—it is distinguished by a depth of coloring such as no other season of the year affords. The earth seems to have resting on its bosom an indescribably soft and tender atmosphere, through which glows the deep purple and blue of the distant hills. The scene is enhanced still further by the whiteness of the snow, which impresses upon it the characteristic mark of heavenly loveliness. What is more charming, too, more delicate and exquisite, than the tracery of the bare tree-tops relieved against the sky. Every snow-storm impresses upon the branches myriads of architectural forms of beauty. The bare trunk of the black spruce is clothed with a feathery plumage that might be envied by the bird of paradise. The most unsightly object that could present itself before our eyes is enwrapped in a soft, white mantle, and looks as pleasing, as meek and mild as a dove.
Under Nature’s touch the whole earth becomes in winter transformed, and masqueraded in every variety of beauty and shape. Then comes a sudden change—a thaw sets in; the snow in part disappears, frost comes, and the world is more beautiful than ever—clothed in a mantle studded with brilliant diamonds.
But winter’s beauty is manifold in its nature; and its deepest charms are those which night brings forth. When we go abroad on a winter’s night, what grand and solemn thoughts spring up in our mind! thoughts of the power of God, of His omnipresence, of His goodness to frail and mortal man—since He provides for all his wants and assists him in all his necessities. Nature in all her varied forms is but the expression of the will of God—the manifestation of a supreme power to man.
We may notice that the earth is not more unlike in summer and in winter than are the heavens. To prove this, we need but compare the mellow glory with which the harvest moon floods the earth, with the cold, bright light of the distant moon of winter. What a beauty is there not visible in a winter’s starlight night! what other sight given to man so stirs his inner feelings, awakens in his soul that sense of awe, grandeur, and majesty, which moves him to rejoice, love, reverence, and adore!
It may be observed that in the severity and sternness of winter the moods which Nature suggests are higher and more heroic than those which the milder seasons inspire. When the earth abounds with all the fruitful things; when the warm air breathes on us its benign influence; when
the gentle and whispering wind fans us and lulls us to repose, the feeling which we experience is simply delightful; but when the blood quickens to resist the cold— when our very heart beats quicker and stronger, in order, as it were, to contend with, and keep at bay a mighty power, and when the earth, bound in frost and snow, seems under the sway of something of a greater in- t fluence than those which minister to the physical man, then it is that we seem to come nearer unto the presence
of the Mighty One, the Lord of all creation.	!
Winter, therefore, is a season of loveliness and grandeur;
but this loveliness and grandeur are peculiar to itself. The forests, the mountains, and the hillsides present a scene of a most striking character. The stillness of the woods at ■< night—contrasted with the blazing stars that bespangle the canopy of heaven, and the soft, white and delicate appear- r ance of the earth beneath, rendered still more attractive by v the mysterious voices of the wind—makes us feel as if we stood face to face with some mighty power—nay, even in
the courts of God.	C. J.
Privileges of an Austrian Regiment.
The eighth regiment of dragoons, until 1867 a regiment of cuirassiers in the Austrian Service, is entitled to quite a number of privileges. Among others, these troopers alone of all the Austrian army, have a right to pass on horseback through the imperial court-yard, with sounding bugles and flying colors. Secondly, no soldier of the regiment, convicted of a capital offence, suffers the extreme penalty of martial law, within its own ranks, but only after being transferred to another regiment. Thirdly, the colonel of these famous horsemen is allowed to take up his quarters in the “Hofburg” (imperial castle), and may visit his sovereign in full dress, without even so much as giving his name to the guards and courtiers in the ante chamber.
The origin of all these favors is quite romantic. It was on the 5th of June, 1619, just after the beginning of the thirty years war, when the emperor Ferdinand II, a model monarch and Christian hero, was besieged in Vienna by his Protestant subjects of Bohemia, and when treason within -his own city rendered his cause still more desperate, that towards evening, sixteen Protestant noblemen forcibly entered the emperor’s chamber, with the avowed purpose of compelling their noble sovereign to accede to their infamous proposals. Ferdinand, realizing his situation, raised his eyes to the crucifix on the mantel-piece and remained some time in deep thought. But hark! in this moment of greatest peril, when the welfare not only of the.house of Hapsburg, but also that of all Austria and the safety of the Catholic religion in the German empire was at stake, Divine Providence came to the rescue. Heaven interfered in behalf of the worthy scion of the pious Rudolf of Hapsburg. The martial strain of trumpets sounded in the court yard, and a splendid array of troopers in full armor greeted the eyes of the delighted monarch. It was the cuirassier regiment Dampierre, that had just arrived in boats on the Danube, and having been apprised by two loyal citizens of their sovereign’s distress, lost no time in hastening to his relief.
The glorious record of this event was inscribed in the annals of the regiment, and as a reward of their gallantry the above named privileges were granted them by Ferdinand II, and are to be extended as long as Austria holds her place among the powers of Europe.	H. S.
i
THE NOTKE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
371
Art, Music and Literature.
—Tennyson is worth $1,000,000.
—A monument to Albertus Magnus is to be erected at Laningen, his birth-place.
—Five editions of the memoirs of Madame de Remusat have already been published in Paris.
—A stray copy of the first edition of Shelley’s “ Adonais,” which was published at his own expense, in Pisa, recently sold for $50.
—Mme. Guizot de Witt has just completed her history of France from 1789 to 1848, the sequel to her father’s (M. Guizot) history. .
—The late Dr. Cogswell had the reputation of being the closest book-buyer in America. He bought a library of 60,000, at an average of $1.05 a volume.
—Father Mullooly, the Prior of S. Clemente, Rome, we grieve to announce, hss been seriously ill, but is now slowly recovering under the care of Dr. Aitken.
—Verdi has composed a “Pater Noster" and an “Are Maria ” to words of Dante’s, which are to be performed in the Scala Theatre, Milan, at the close of the Carnival, on behalf of needy musicians.	.
—The competition that was held lately in Paris for an allegorical bust of the republic produced such unsatisfactory results that no prize was awarded. The municipal Council will probably open a fresh competition.
—Mr. T. O. Barlow has finished an engraving from Mr. Millais’s “ Effie Deans.” The same engraver has made considerable progress with a plate after Mr. Millais’s portrait of Mr. Gladstone; and he is about to reproduce this painter’s portrait of Mrs. Langtry.
—In regard to the proposed “ restoration” of St. Mark’s at Venice, a correspondent of the Portfolio says that the Italian Government is not to blame, but that the fault really lies at the door of the aachitects and mosaists, who try to caeate jobs for themselves by restorations.
—It is said that Eugene Schuyler will receive $8,000 for the right of serial publication in Scribner's Monthly of his Life of Peter the Great, reserving all rights to publish in book-form on its completion in tne magazine. The illustrations of this serial will cost not less than $25,000.
—The Aurora, remarking upon Leo XIII’s love of science, letters, and the arts, says that notwithstanding the straitened circumstances of the Holy See his Holiness has recently expended several thousand francs in the purchase of a series of important documents to be placed in the Vatican archives.
—The Encyclopaedia Britannica's ninth edition, edited by Prof. T. Spencer Baynes, L.L. D., is now nearly half completed, ten volumes having already appeared. These ten volumes include (1) A—Ana, (2) Ana—Ath, (3) Ath—Boi (4) Bok—Can, (5)—Can—Cie, (6) Cli—Day, (7) Dea—Eld, (8) Ele—Fak, (9) Fai—Fyz, (10) G—Got.
—We understand, says the Athenaeum, that the Kilkenny Association is to publish very shortly the difficult and interesting tale of “Bruiden da Derga,” contained among others still inedited in the “ Bo«k of the Dun Cow.” The editor and translator is Mr. Hennessy, so that the work will be thoroughly well done, both as regards the original text and the English.
—The art treasures of Prince Paul Demidoff, heretofore deposited in his villa of San Donato, are about to be sold at auction in Florence. The most famous art collectors of Europe have already gathered there to attend the sale. An illustrated catalogue has been published, which is a rare work of art in itself, the price being $10. It is sold for the benefit of the poor.
—A somewhat curious sale is announced to take place in Paris this month. It consists of about 4,000 paintings, drawings, etc., of various descriptions, that have been executed by pupils under Government instruction. Among these are, doubtless, many works by well-known painters of the day; but, as none of them are signed, it is difficult to identify them. The Government sells the whole in different lots, so that here is a fine opportunity for those who
like to speculate in the probability of being able to acquire, at a small cost, some early work by a distinguished master.
—A remarkable collection of autographs was recently sold at Lepke, in Germany. It comprised a number of letters by the heroes of the Thirty Years’ War and the great poets and actors of Germany. A letter of Anselm Rothschild fetched the enormous sum of $1,200. It had reference to a loan which one of the petty sovereigns of Germany had effected with the founder of the great bankinghouse, and which he did not want to return. His serene highness is handled without gloves, and receives some wholesome advice on the principles of commercial integrity.
—The chief artistic treasures of Studley Royal, Lord Ripon’s seat, are its numerous portraits, among which is one of Lady Jane Grey by an unknown hand, and one of Dr. Johnson by Reynolds; and its most interesting architectural feature is the beautiful ruin of Fontaine Abbey. The magnificent church is yet almost entire, little but the roof being wanting to it. The chapter-house andrefectory arehardly less perfect. It requires little effort of the imagination to people it once more with its former denizens, the monks of St. Bernard, so many generations of whom passed their lives there. The well from whose waters the abbey takes its name—Santa Maria de Fontibus—still flows through the Abbey.
—Countess Ida von Hahn-Hahn, the distinguished German novelist and poetess, who recently died, was a convert to Catholicity. This event, which occurred thirty years ago, caused great sensation in literary circles at the time, and inspired a work which she published the following year, entitled “From Babylon to Jerusalem.” Poor Heinrich Heine, who, though he sang sweetly, could talk bitterly, said of her: “ All lady novelists, when they write, have one eye on some man and the other on their work— all except Countess Hahn-Hahn.” The Countess had but one eye. She expired peacefully after a life of sadness and trouble, in the Convent of the Good Shepherd at Angers, in the odor of sanctity, and fortified with all the consoling rites of holy Church.	.
—Public Opinion gives a warm welcome in its last number to Father Gallwey’s treatise on “ The Anglican Clergy in the Confessional.” “In this pamphlet,” it says, “the most abstruse mediaeval theology, the most thorough combination of thought with that of the old masters of divinity of the sixteenth century is mixed with a style of modern wit which reminds us of the most elegant French satirist. The author is often grimly pleasant, and cuts very deep in controversy. The nervous English used throughout is a character of the author, as he manages to express his ideas in shorter language than that employed in the Latin and Spanish originals, which were most familiar to him. This book will go beside Macaulay, Newman, and Carlyle, as a model of English composition.” As the most opposite of frank, manly criticism like this, see the Rock's notice of Father Bagshawe’s “ Credentials of the Catholic Church,” published the same day. The editor, in this case, we suspect, sent the volume to his reviewer accompanied by the old message of “No case; abuse plaintiff’s attorney.”
Scientific Notes.
—During the year 1879 twenty minor planets were discovered, and their number now is 211.
—A paragraph in the Kolnische Zietung warns the public of the inflammability of celluloid. People who wear bracelets, combs and other articles made of it are cautioned not to expose them to a temperature of more than 150 to 160 degrees Centigrade.
—The production of beet-root sugar in Europe, according to the statistics furnished by Herr Licht of Magdeburg, was 1,380,000 tons for 1879, against 1,574,154 tons, for 1878. This amount is divided as follows among the various states of Europe: Germany, 410,000 tons; France, 300,000; Austro-Hungary, 365,000; Russia, 225,000; Belgium, Holland, Italy, etc., 80,000. In France the diminution in the production of this article was 132,000 tons.
—At a recent meeting of the Botanical Society of Edin
372
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
burgh Sir Robert Christison read a paper on the relative growth of trees in 1879 as compared with 1878. In the course of his remarks he said that of eleven deciduous trees, exclusive of oaks, the deficiency ot growth during 1879 as compared with 1878 was 41 per cent.; of seventeen evergreens of the pine tribe the deficiency was 20 per cent., and of seven oaks oi diflerent species the deficiency was 10 per cent. The mean temperature ot 1879 was nearly 10° less than that oi 1878.	.
—Figaro states that during the excavations for a gasholder al Monaco, a valuable treasure of antique goldsmith’s work has been found. The relics consist of three large golden bracelets oi the form called porte-bonheur ; three gold bracelets engraved with figures m relief; two more bracelets of gold; a bracelet of an oval form; a diadem of gold, with figures in relief; an inedited medal of Gallienus; eight very rare Roman medals of gold; a bust oi Gallienus in gold repousse five centimeties high. The writer believes that ail these objects are Roman, of the third century, and that they were probably the decorations and honary distinctions of a tribune of a legion of the time of Probus.
—Mr. Proctor, the astronomer, recently expressed the opinion that Mars was the only planet beside the earth old enough to be inhabited. The others, he thinks, are still glowing with heat. He also uttered the following opinion: “The stars are rapidly ceasing to be regarded as objects of beauty simply, and the time is approaching when intelligent people will be ashamed to gaze in indifferent admiration upon the fiimament and acknowledge their ignoiance in a field wbicn the vast strides of modern science have made accessible to all. Draper’s discovery of oxygen in the sun is the most im-poitant fact in modern astronomical research, because it shows that the sun is in part composed of elements like the earth’s. Saturn’s rings will eventually resolve themselves into moons, and the dark places on the moon are not mountains or seas, but simply indentations, and therefore less luminous. The black spots visible upon the surface of the sun are but the holes through the surrounding envelope, through which only the parent mass can be seen.
—News comes from the Cardoba Observatory in South America that Dr. Gould, director of the observatory there, has discovered a great comet, which, in the somewhat obscure language oi the despatch, “is passing the sun in a northward direction.” The only comet of short period expected this year is Wmnecke’s, and that, according to the accepted calculations of its orbit, should not be visible before the latter part of December next. Probably if Dr. Gould has really seen a great comet, it is a new visitor, from the depths of space. If we are to be treated to such a celestial spectacle as those of us remember who saw the great comet oi 1858, this generation may be peculiarly considered fortunate m that respect; for it is the lot of very few men to behold more than one such a sight in a lifetime. Oue of the most impressive things about these wandering visitors, which in former ages struck whole nations with terror, is the tact, which seems unquestionable, that they voyage from sun to sun and system to system, occupying, probably, millions of years in the journey from one star to another.—N. F. Sun.
Exchanges.
—Anyone interested in keeping a correct current report of the weather from various places will find The Meteorologist a handy medium. Published monthly by J. M. L. Stump, Greensburg, Pa., at 50 cents a year; to Canadian subscribers, 65 cents.
—The Catholic World for March opens with an able and thoughtful article on “ The Religious Struggle in Ireland within the Century.” This timely and scholarly paper will be read with interest by all who wish to know something—and something that is true—of the state of religious affairs in that land which is now suffering from a famine to all appearances no less destructive than that of ’47-’8. The second paper of this excellent magazine is a poetical piece, entitled “Sechnall’s Praise of St. Patrick.” It is
well-written, and equally sustained throughout The other articles of the Catholic World are: III, Bernardo Tasso; IV, Follette; V, Christian Art; VI, Peter the Net Maker; VII, “Cain Patraic”; VIII, The Court of Napoleon I; IX, The Foundation of Morality; X, Learning the Type-Writer; XI, The Fall and its Transmission; XII, An Exhibition of Mr. Dexter A. Hawkins; XIII, The Avezzana Affair; XIV, New Publications, all of which are up to the usual standard of the magazine.
—The American Art Journal is always a welcome visitor to our sanctum, but when we get a number like this of the 15th of February everything else has to wait till its pages are perused. We do not want to be accused of flattery, but we must say that The American Art Journal is our favorite representative of that species oi literature. We only call attention to a few of its interesting articles: “Madame Clara Schumann” is a very good biographical sketch of that interesting piariiste. Clara Schumann has never been equalled by any female artist as a pianist and composer, and few, if any, surpass her. Her name stands on an equality with the names of Liszt, Rubenstein and Hans von Bhlow. “A Visit to Gounod” is attractively written. We do not know why, but it is a fact that we have a peculiar liking for articles of this kind; they describe so truly the character of the men of whom they treat “Classical Music—A Medley ” is good reading for those in a melancholy mood. A few spontaneous explosions of laughter are a sure sign that it is a good antidote to melancholy. We again recommend the Art Journal, and we will not tire of recommending it, because we know and appreciate its worth. Subscriptions should be addressed to the office, No 10 Union Square, New York.
—The Musical Record for February 7th, published in Boston, by Oliver Ditson & Co., comes to us with its usual interesting list of contents. The Musical Record is the best itemizing musical paper published, and, were it not for anything else, this circumstance alone would be sufficient to recommend it to all who wish to be posted on the changes in the musical world. “ Choral Associations ” is well written, and highly suggestive of improvement in that branch of musical cultivation. We endorse everything the writer of “Mozart’s Sonatas” says. It is but too true that our people want, nowadays, noise instead of music. This, we think, is the fault of the composers. Their melody, as a general rule, is thin and scattered, and its deficiencies must be made up with the noise of the accompaniment. “Urso, The Fiddleiste,” is a just tribute to the distinguished violinist, who is now in Australia. Madame Camilla Urso is undoubtedly one of the greatest violinists of the time. It is less than a year since we last heard her, and never did we enjoy music better. We heartily recommend all earnest lovers of music to subscribe for The Musical Record. The music alone accompanying each number is worth the subscription price. Oliver Ditson & Co., Boston, Mass., are the publishers.
—Donahoe's Magazine for March is one of the best numbers we have seen, and, if anything, surpasses its usual high standard. Its contents are: I, Count Taatfe, the Irish-Austrian Nobleman, with Portrait; II, The Decay of Public Spirit among Modern Catholics; III, Missionaries in Search of the Cholera; IV, The Art oi the Italian Renaissance; V, A Shamrock from the Irish Shore; VI, The Effect a Good Religious Education has on Families; VH, Corner-Stone laying of the House for Homeless Boys; VIII, Parnell in America; IX, Impressions in the South. T. O. Russell; X, Increase of Catholicism in the United States; XI, Irish and English Freemasons and their Foreign Brothers; XII, The Population of Ireland; XIII, High Treason: A Tale ot the Jesuits of the 17th Century; XIV, The Bar Life of O’Connell; XV, Lough Derg and its Pilgrimages; XVI, My Irish Shamrocks; XVII, Old Irish Organizations; XVIII, Discourse on the Institute of the Sisters of Loretto; .XIX, Columbia: Gilmore’s National Anthem; XX, The Founder of Methodism; XXI, Address to the People of America; XXII, What a Protestant Minister says; XXIH, Cardinal Newman and Dr. Brownson; XXIV, The Religion and Nationality of Ireland; XXV, The Church in the United States; XXVI, Useful Knowledge ; XXVH, The Humorist; XXVIII, Our Young Folks: Lambkin, Little Lambkin. About Nest Building; XXIX, Gaelic Department; XXX, a Talk with our Readers;

I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
373

I*

XXXI, Obituary of Priests, Laywonien, and Laymen. XXXII, Events of the Month; XXXIII, Notices of Recent Publications.
—The Princetonian for January 30 is quite an interesting number. Unlike the one preceding, it is not taken up almost exclusively with athletics, but contains a variety of crisply written, interesting articles and communications bearing on college matters in general. A lengthy and stirring editorial deprecates the Princeton trustee system and suggests the formation of alumni branches at the principal centres with representatives from each in the board of trustees. The great falling off of students from Philadelphia at Princeton, alluded to in a communication from an alumnus in that city, forms the motu propria of the article, and there is evidently reason for it. Formerly, it is staled, the students from Philadelphia outnumbered, by far, those • from any other city, while now they “ would hardly constitute a corporal’s guard ” The “Here and There” department of The Princetonian, nearly corresponding to our “ College Gossip,” is well-edited, and the exchange department or “Editor’s Table” is as lively as could be wished for. The editor of the latter department brandishes his new hatchet (borrowed, not bought, as he informs us) with considerable effect, and eyes and noses disappear from various members of the college press with wonderful celerity beneath the blows of the Princeton barbarian. Of course, as he says, his intentions are good; when he lops off a nose it is meant to improve one’s good looks, and when an eye is punched out it is the mote he is in search of. He is a lively and humorous savage, this exchange editor of The Princetonian, and the editorial corps of the Trinity Tablet, the Pennsylvania University Magazine, and the Yale and Columbia papers will undoubtedly have to lie up in hospital for a while. When they do come out some of them will be minus arms, others legs, and one or two will have one eye or both punched out. The Yale men will probably have to go through a course of penmanship with their big toes if they wish to take up their pens again against The Princetonian.
New Publications.
—We acknowledge most cordially the receipt of “ Short Instructions in The Art of Singing Plain Chant,” by Prof. J. Singenberger and published by F. Pustet, Rafis-bon, New York, and Cincinnati. This little work of 77 pages supplies a want long felt in this country, in order to the properly carrying out of the liturgy both according to the spirit and example of the Church, as the author justly says. It takes in all that the Church requires to be sung for the different times and feasts in her divine service. The reason why Plain Chant is so little appreciated is because it is not known; nor are there sufficient efforts made by musicians to make it known, and command the esteem and respect it so well deserves. Another reason why this grand music of St. Ambrose and St. Gregory is not more popular is because it is sometimes, and lor the most part, badly executed. But the main reason is, because the world and the things of the world are in greater favor with men than God and the things of God. Modern music is sensational, but Gregorian Chant is prayerful. In Plain Chant the performer takes a position which commands admiration; in the latter, he assumes the attitude of a petition.
We hope Prof. Singenberger’s little book will be introduced in every Catholic church choir throughout the country; if this be done, the pastor will have more satisfaction in his liturgical functions at the altar, and less trouble and difficulty with his choir. We ourselves know of two parishes where a pastor has successfully introduced this mode of singing, and according to his own statement he has less difficulty with the singers, and less difficulty in the carrying out all the details of the liturgy in the various ceremonies of the Church. Let it be understood that we do not condemn modern singing. It may be used on various occasions. But let the Mass and Vespers at least be sung in Plain Chant. Once more, we recommend most earnestly Prof. Singenberger’s little work. Of course the book does 'not furnish any one with the full exposition of Plain Chant, such as the director of a choir ought to pos
sess. This is not its object; its principal aim is to furnish, a short and comprehensive manual to the children of onr schools, who, should be the regular choristers in the church, and this mission it fulfils perfectly.
College Gossip.
—The College of the Propaganda, in Rome, sent 7,000 lire to the starving poor in Ireland.—0 Jornal de Noticias.
—The cause of education has received another set-back. J. W. Keller, the best man in the Yale College boat crew, has gone into business.
—The 14th annual dinner of the Williams Alumni Association of Boston was held at the Parker House, Boston, on the 19th ult.,—forty members present.
—Among the names of the Christmas ordinati at the celebrated Seminary of St. Sulpuce, Paris, we see quite a number from America, and also some from Ireland and England.
—The Mayor of Princeton has prohibited the use of bycicles by the students. No danger of Mayor Tong prohibiting their use by Notre Dame students. Plenty of room. Will the Juniors and Seniors organize clubs?
—Sweden has two universities; Norway but one. There are no “ Corps ” or “ Burschenschaften,’”’ as in Germany. All students from the same province form an association, choosing some professor ordinarius as president. Membership is obligatory.— Williams Athenceum.
—The co-educational female is rampart again. She has obtained a foothold in Fair Harvard, for she now recites to the college professors, though not with the college students. But Yale is safe. There is no danger of any well-behaved young woman venturing near that locality.— Nassau Literary Magazine.
—Two Freshmen were scanning every alternate line in an ode of Horace, when one suddenly stopped and knit his brow as if in deep meditation. “ What’s the matter,” asked the other; “ why don’t you go on ? ” “ Why, I’m trying to think what kind of feet mine are.” “ They are spondees; too long, of course; hurry up.”—Williams Athenaeum.
—We learn from our excellent Portugese exchange, the Jornal de Noticias, that the University of Coimbra, Portugal, of ancient name and fame, has 581 students matriculated in the different departments. Of these, 25 are from the Azores, 8 from Madeira, 3 from the Cape de Verde Islands, 1 from India, 7 from Brazil, 1 from France, and 1 from England. All the rest are from Portugal.
—The Board of regents’ of the Intercollegiate Literary Association are trying to raise an endowment fund and do away with the annual tax. A resolution to the effect that all the contests, except that in oratory, should be discontinued, was defeated. There is to be a first and second prize in oratory of $75 and $25. The workings of the Association have, so far, seemed to prove troublesome and unsatisfactory.
—Rev. Father Robert Fulton, 8. J., late President of Boston College, and Founder and President of the Young Men’s.Catholic Association, was tendered a farewell oration on Thursday evening, Feb. 5th, by the young gentlemen of the Association. Among the guests were His Excellency Gov. Long, Hon. Mayor Prince, Aiderman O’Brien and Flynn, with their ladies; Mr. John Boyle O’Reilly, editor of the Pilot; Rev. Edward Everett Hale, and many of the principal citizens of Boston, with a large company of ladies. An address to Father Fulton was delivered by Mr. James R. Murphy, Vice-President of the Young Men’s Catholic Association; and the poet-editor, Mr. John Boyle O’Reilly, read a beautiful and appropriate ode entitled “The Empty Niche.” An address was also delivered by Rev. Father O’Connor, President of the College and suc-cesssor to Father Fulton, and some feeling and appreciative remarks were made by Gov. Long and Mayor Prince. An excellent collation and music were subsequent features of the entertainment. It was a sad leave-taking for those present, who had become affectionately attached to Rev. Father Fulton during the seventeen years he had spent among them.—The Am Maria.
374
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, February 31, 1880
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME 8CH0LATTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a soscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
On Tuesday evening last, Hon. L. Hubbard, of South Bend, delivered before the Law and Commercial classes an interesting and instructive lecture on the “ Law of Contracts.” This is a subject of such importance, and fraught with so many intricacies—it including, we may say, nearly all the regulations of human society—that it could only be touched upon briefly in the course of a single lecture.
The lecturer began by an explanation of the general nature of contracts, how they entered into and influenced all procedures of life, showing that the real basis of Civil Society depended upon their fulfilment. The general division of Special and Simple Contracts was then given, with their several subordinate divisions, of Express, Implied Executed, and Executory Contracts. Each was illustrated with examples, showing in a very lucid manner its application in practice, and explained in such clear and simple language as to be readily understood by every one present.
The lecturer next entered upon what we might term the stern realities of everyday life, and the responsibilities resting upon every individual who enters into contracts with another. He made further classifications of those incapable to enter into any kind of solemn agreement, of the personal privileges allowed to some, and of the general principles relating to infants, persons of unsound mind, and aliens.
The foregoing embraces the general topics treated by the lecturer, yet while each heading suggests to us the consequence of a clear understanding of them, they cannot at all portray the value of the Lecture. Having practiced with success at the bar for many years, and filled positions of public trust, Mr. Hubbard is thoroughly capable of de
veloping any legal subject in a most pleasing manner; and all concur that his mode of approaching the minds of beginners is admirable.
We regret that the short space allowed us will not permit the insertion of some few of the examples cited in illustrating the various rules and complications of the Law of Contracts. Everyone who listened to the lecture will acknowledge that he profited much by it, and all unite in tendering Mr. Hubbard their thanks for his kind favor, and hope to have the pleasure of listening to him again.
As we are but as yet entered on the second session of the scholastic year, it appears to us quite appropriate to urge our numerous friends all over the country to do what they can in helping us, by way of getting for us new subscribers, etc. We know that much more could be done by the old students of Notre Dame in regard to helping along the Scholastic than what they actually do. All or nearly all of them, might subscribe, and get others to do the same. There is really something strange in the way that many act towards their Alma, Maier. From the moment they go into.business, or enter upon some profession, they seem to forget that home of their boyhood—that place where they spent their happiest days. Now, it may be that we exaggerate a little; in fact, we know from the number of kind letters daily received from former students that Notre Dame has every reason to feel proud of the feeling that exists towards her by those who have spent any time within her walls. But yet weare inclined to think that in their goodness and kindness they might do more by way of supporting the Scholastic, which, being a weekly paper, entails considerable expense. We do not wish to beg, or, in fact, allude to the matter of subscription, but we would simply ask all our friends to do what they can for us, and those who are now in arrears to the Scholastic to clear up their accounts as soon as possible.
It is but reasonable, after all, that those who receive a paper should pay for it, and as the subscription to our paper is so small, all can afford to comply with the demand hereby made. If we are assisted, we can improve our paper—we can make of it what we would wish it to be, entertaining, newsy, and spicy. Once more, we ask all our friends to assist us, and if each old student of our University would send in but one new subscriber, it would in the aggregate amount to a great deal and help us to keep our way clear.
—The last number of the Niagara Index has some trite remarks in an editorial on college journalism. The truths embodied in it would do an incalculable amount of good if students would take them home, and ponder them. But they will not. We, and our predecessors on the Scholastic, have often called attention to the facts alluded to, but with little effect—little, in comparison to what they should have had. It is true our remarks stirred up some of the let-well-enough-alone laggards for a time, and caused some entirely to reform, but these were few, very few. The majority fell back into the old indolent way, without an effort worthy of the name. We see it is the same at all, or nearly all, the other colleges, judging from the rebukes and appeals made by the editors of college journals. As a rule, college papers are not contributed to and supported by the higher class of students, those from whom help would naturally be expected. It is certainly so
THjE NOTRE DAME SC’HO;LASTIC.	375
in our case, and the consequence is that our college paper is not by any means an index of our upper-class college talent. The Index editor says: “ We may have queer notions, still we imagine that, besides advertising his Alma Mater and establishing a pleasant link of communication between the past and present generation of students, the college journalist may further extend the realms of his usefulness by judiciously affording to ambitious scribes opportunity and encouragement to ventilate their talents. The literary department of a paper answers admirably this purpose, and though its existence may impart an air of dryness and detract from the general newsy character of a sheet, the good effected overbalances the shortcomings. This is our apology for preserving this feature of the Index in spite of the kindly criticisms and protests of over-solicitous cotemporaries. Experience has taught us that publication stimulates literary efforts, and until we are convinced of the contrary, our idea of the sphere of our labors must embrace a feature so evidently beneficial to our student contributors.” Students may now think they write well enough,—that their essays in class and the society-halls are all that could be wished tor,—but let them appear in print, published verbatim, et literatim, et punctuatim, and they will see blunders or weakness that they had never dreamed of. By writing for their college paper they can see these in time to correct their mistakes and to acquire a correct, easy, and even elegant style of writing. This is a matter worthy of serious attention on the part of every student— not of this or that one particularly, but of each individually.
—The inmates of many of the colleges continue to be stirred up by the fire fiend. A few weeks ago the University of Michigan narrowly escaped a blaze, from carelessness in smoking, it is said, in the janitor’s room. The libraries were in danger. Now, the Atkenaum brings intelligence of a fire in Goodrich Hall, at Williams, and says that if it had escaped notice ten minutes longer the building would have become a prey to the flames. Strangely enough, at neither of the above institutions do there seem to be any adequate means for putting out a fire. At Williams, says the Athenaeum, “so far as we know, there is neither fire engine, nor hose, nor even a hand extinguisher in possession of the town or college, which could be made available in case of fire. There is not the slightest doubt that if a fire gets beyond the control of a few water pails, which, of course, in skilful hands, are worth a good deal, the building, and those near it, are bound to burn to the ground, so far as any interference on the part of the students or townspeople is concerned.” So also at the University of Michigan. We dare say many other institutions are similarly circumstanced, and when one considers the risk of life and property in colleges it seems strange that proper appliances are not ready beforehand, to forestall the flames.
We are glad the authorities at Notre Dame have profited by the severe lesson taught by the late terrible conflagration, and that the College and adjacent buildings are provided with water-pipes and hose; but too great precautions cannot be used. We hope our local fire brigade will allow nothing to pass unnoticed which might impair the working of the apparatus. We are glad also to be able to compliment the South Bend fire brigade on its efficiency, but they are too far away to be relied upon in a sudden emergency. Forewarned, forearmed. Since the fire here,
several colleges have been partially destroyed, some entirely destroyed, and we hope the fire brigade folks at Notre Dame will not be lulled into a false security by the measures already taken, stringent though they be.
We have often wondered at, and deplored, that m ost outrageous and atrocious of all crimes—suicide. To think how a man can voluntarily take away his own life, and hurl himself into the presence of his Creator and Judge, baffles all description. Yet, notwithstanding the fact that this crime is directly opposed to the law of God—for no man is master of his own life—we learn from authentic sources that it is sadly on the increase. There is scarcely a paper that we take up that does not give a case of suicide as , having taken place either in our own country or in Europe. It is remarkable, too, that in those places and countries where infidelity has gained the greatest sway—obtained a footing, as we may say—it is there that cases of suicide are more frequent, and that this most daring outrage against God and man annually reaches an enormous figure. It has been reported on official authority at Copenhagen that during the past thirty years no less than 16,111 suicides have taken place out of a population of about 2,0(10,000 souls. This is surely a sad state of affairs; and it is all the the more revolting, when we consider the various means employed for the perpetration of this awful deed. Some will have recourse to drowning, others to blowing out their brains by fire-arms, others again to hanging themselves, and still others to cutting their own throats with some sharp-edged instrument.
But we may ask ourselves the question, is there no way of remedying this evil ? Cannot men be made to learn that they have no dominion over their own lives; that in laying violent hands on themselves they act contrary to every principle both human and divine, and concur directly in the eternal ruin of their souls? It is true that the question is more easily put than answered. Yet, we do not hesitate to say, that there are many ways of remedying the evil, and not the least among the many, is the careful religious training of our youth.
Faith and hope must be dead in him who interferes with his own life. Charity and every Christian virtue must have abandoned his soul, and left him a prey to the thousand and one temptations that beset him at every moment. He really understands nothing of what life is, of its Author, or of the care which an All-wise God expects him to bestow on his soul, which is of infinite value. Hence, the consequence—the terrible accounts which every day meet our eye.
But while religious education is neglected—while youth are brought up without being taught what they are, who God is, what they must do in order to do right, etc., we may expect no better result. Religious education is the foundation of civil society, the hope of a nation’s progress, advancement and well-being, and consequently should not be neglected.
—To learn to bear and forbear, to prefer to lose the argument rather than the temper, to be willing to suffer a great wrong rather than do the least wrong, to give way to the unfortunate temper of others rather than to gain a point at the cost of a war of words,—a few such plain habits would prevent a world of trouble, and spread joy and happiness tnrough scenes where every blessing .may be poisoned by the corrosion of embittered feeling.—A. A. Livermore.
3?6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—J. Hayes (Commercial), ’76, is in business at Leadville, Coi.
—S. P. McDonald (Commercial), ’75, is in the dry-goods business at Bay City, Mich.
—J. Devine (Commercial), ’74, was married to a most estimable young lady, a short time ago, at Dexter, where he is residing and doing well.
—Many of the old boys will be pained to learn of the death of J. McCall (Commercial), ’74, who died quite suddenly at Detroit in October last.	.
—Rt. Rev. Jos. Dwenger, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, has been for the past few days at Notre Dame, where he ever is a most welcome visitor. During his Lordship’s slay here he ordained some of our young ecclesiastics.
—Our old and esteemed friend August Schnull, ’79, is in business with his father at Indianapolis. August was a favorite with all when at college, as we have no doubt he is now, and will continue to be, in the business world.
—Oliver Tong, brother of Mayor Tong of South Bend, and C.Campau, students of ’75, were at Noire Dame on last Sunday. Tney are both looking well, and express themselves well pleased with the appearance of the new University.
—J. R. Lambin (Commercial), ’77, has been visiting his Alma Mater for the past three or four days. “Jack” is looking hale and hearty, and is just as good-natured as ever. He has a very lucrative position in the Southside Collector’s Office in Chicago. He sees many of the “ old boys ” every day, and says “ they are all doing well.”
Iiocal Items. *
—The best thing out is a bad cigar.
—Prof. Lyons’s room is the “ boss ” room of the College.
—Our reporter says “Things are all quiet on the Potomac.”
—A large audience is expected at Washington Hall tonight.
—That’s right, boys; send in your items. The more, the merrier..
—Some more' tutors will shortly take up quarters in the college extension.
—The Bulletins for the month of February were written by John Lambin, of ’78.
—“Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by the sun----”
—Boys that are always cracking jokes ought to be able to take a joke now and then.	*
—He didn’t go to town last Wednesday as was his wont. He says it won’t happen again.
—Remember that so long as the southeast wind is the ruling wind we may expect frosty nights.
—It is reported that all the classes are doing admirably well. Scarcely one Prof, has reason to complain.
—The Minims feel jubilant over the defeat they gave the Juniors at the game of football on Wednesday afternoon.
—A full report of the 18th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society will appear in next week’s Scholastic.
-r-The work on Prof. Lyons’s room is now finished, and all are un inimous in pronouncing it most artistic in design and execution.
—Last Wednesday, being a most beautiful day, the boys enjoyed themselves to their heart’s content. All kinds of games were in season.
—Vespers to-morrow are of the Common of a Confessor Bishop, page 48 of the Vesperal, with a commemoration of the 2d Sunday of Lent.
—“Havana!” said our friend John, as he presented a
roll of the weed. “Oh, yes, thank you, we will partake; no objection whatever.” ..
—A tale of misery—when a favorite pussy escapes to her mistress after leaving her tail in the jaws of the steel trap set for a big poaching rat.
—The members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association tender their thanks to Proi. Ackerman for artistic work executed in their new Hall.	.
—“The proper study of mankind is man,” said our friend John a few days ago, as he stood gazing at the angle of his facial anatomy in a ten-fool mirror.
—Washington’s Birthday will be duly celebrated tonight. Indeed, Notre Dame always takes pride in paying all honor to the Father of our country.
—We hope all Preps, Juniors and Seniors who can furnish local or personal items will do so, and help to make the paper interesting. “ Mony a mickle makes a muckle.”
—The ground hog has not yet made his appearance since the 2d inst. The poor fellow had to go back to his little bed. He came out too soon, and very likely caught a cold.
—One of our friends from the sunny South wishes to know “if ice grows stale up North here in summer?” Will some of our friends please inform him on this point?
—Our friend John got a valentine on last Saturday which ruffled his brow not a little. The fact is, he doesn’t believe in having his “ photo ” going through the mails as second-class matter.
—The absence of Mr. J. Norfleet on home business of importance has necessitated a little change in the Band. J. B. Berteling now plays E Flat; F. X. Wall, 1st B Flat; and G. Donnelly, 1st Alto.
—It wculd be desirable if the Secretaries of the different Societies of the University would hand in the reports of the meetings as soon as possible after they are held, and not wait two or three daj s before doing so.
—President Corby has kindly consented to procure a set of Band instruments from Cincinnati, which are expected in a few days. With these, and the best of the instruments left by the fire, the Band will be well furnished.
—List of letters remaining in the post-office at Notre Dame, Ind., Feb. 21st, 1880: Walter Cannon, Peter Henry, W. A. Galion, E. Logart, John Brady, Sami. Townsend, Thos. Carroll, Jeremiah O’Brien, John Dean, Jas. Malone, John M. Carroll.	'
—Some of those who put items in the Scholastic box this week can hardly have read last week’s paper, judging from the repetition of some remarks previously published. A boy that doesn’t read the Scholastic is behind the times,—he isn’t posted.
■ —We have often seen a cow part with her milk in a most gracious manner, and then turn round and upset the pail; but we have yet to see anything to equal the late generous and gracelessly performed action of a certain individual who lives not a thousand miles away.
—Since the birth of the Christian world, as nearly as one of the Preps can calculate, 988,133,475 minutes had passed al 12 o’clock (noon) to-day, February the 21st, 1880; and at twenty-five minutes past 12 o’clock a. m., on the 21st day of May, 1882, one billion minutes will have passed.
—All the students are at present imbued with the thought that ’tis
“Better to hunt in fields for health unbought, Than fee the doctor for a nauseous draught.”
And are mindful of the fact that
“The wise for cure on exercise depend;
God never made His work for man to mend.”
—The rehearsal of the Orchestra on Wednesday last was well attended. Lately, an important addition has been made by the introduction of a clarionette. It is needless to state that this is a most effective instrument in an Orchestra,—as effective as it is difficult to handle. The overture of “ Flotte Burshe,” by Suppe, is being rehearsed, and with some polishing off will be one of the finest ever rendered at Notre Dame.
—The Juniors brought over twelve of their best foot-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	3?7
ball players to the Minims’ yard on Wednesday afternoon, with the avowed intention of defeating the Minim Department at said game. But “ they were left,” for of the three | < games played the Minims came out victorious in two. The Minims wish to meet their Junior friends again in a similar contest; but they advise them not to be so presumptuous next tin e.
t	—The 6lh regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of
the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary '	was held Sunday evening, Feb. 8ch. The re-election of
officers took place, with the following result: 1st Vice-President, J. A. Gibbons; 2J Vice-President, M. T. Burns ;
' Recording Secretary, T. H. Grever; Corresponding Secretary, N. Weny; 1st Censor, A. Caren; 2d Censor, T. Brown; Sergeant-at-arms, R. Fleming; Standard-Bearer, A. Hellebusch.
A .	—The Thespian Entertainment on the 22d, although
primarily intended to commemorate the birthday of our glorious Pater Patrice, combines also the additional feature that it is intended as a testimonial in honor of Very Rev. President Corby’s feast-day, which comes too late in June to allow the students to give expression to their sentiments. Hence the audience will not be surprised at the addresses, dictated by filial affection, delivered anil presented on the occasion.
~	—It has been reported by the director of the tailor-shop
that they are now prepared at this establishment to offer to the students of the University, and others, spring ana summer goods at a remarkably low price—the goods, too, being ol the best material—all wool. Full suits are now being offered at all prices, ranging from $12 to $42 j	The single articles, such as coats, pants and vests are
1	offered at a correspondingly low price, so that they may
<	be had proportionately cheap. All, then, wishing to
f	purchase anything in the clothing line would do well to
i	give the director of the tailor-shop at Notre Dame a call
before going elsewhere.
—A very neat little volume, entitled Preludes, has found its way to our table. It is written by Maurice F. Egan of tire University of Notre Dame, to which place we were recently introduced by its college paper, The Scholastic. It r is published by Peter F. Cunningham & Son, Philadelphia. The work is gotten up in pleasing style, and contains about one hundred pages of poems, few of them longer than a single page,—just a stanza or so, and then another t	subject,—keeping the attention running from one piece to
the next, until one, taking it up for a hasty glance, is led almost insensibly to read it all. It certainly has a worthy object, and deserves the support of all friends of the Uni-versity.—The Hawfordian, Haw-ford College, Pa.
C^~—K meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Tuesday evening, at which an election of officers for the second session took place, with the following result: Directors, Very Rev. Fathers General and Corby; r	Assistant Director, Rev. Father Walsh; President, Mr. T.
McNamara, C. S. C.; 1st Vice-President, D. Taylor; 2d Vice-President, G. Woodson; Secretary, C. Droste; Monitors, G. Knight and Jas. Courtney; 1st Censor, G. Van Mourick; 2d Censor, H. Snee; 3d Censor, H. Kitz; 8er-geant-at-arms, H. Dunn; Librarian, A. Campau; Marshall, E. Howard; Prompter, Joe Courtney; Treasurer, M. Olds; Promoter, Rev. C. Kelly. Declamations were delivered by Masters Schmuckle, T. Van Mourick, and J. •	Courtney. Masters Dunn and Echlin were elected members.
—Jt is really astonishing how smart some folks are and the genius they display m inventing means to insult their neignbors. We read in the South-Bend Register of the 16th *	inst. a very interesting account of a masquerade surprise
party which took place in the above named city on St. Valentine’s day; the most notable feature ot the atiair being the originality of design that those children ot nature had recourse to in order to conceal their heavenly physiognomies [	and their well-formed anatomies from each other. Among
those original costumers was conspicuous our triend----, whom we think it would suit better to be out West—on the prairies, fighting the red Indians, as by all accounts his career as a skirmisher is quite notable. No: not one of the (---) family ever did lay down his gun or run away!
God bless us! How far we are advancing in civilization!
—During the Ember days it is customary in all our
seminaries to have ordinations, and for this purpose Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, D. D., visited Notre Dame this week. On Wednesday morning last he said the eighto’clock Mass, in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, at which all the students were present, and during which he conferred orders on several of our young /ecclesiastics. Messrs. Patrick J. Moran and Peter W. Rosen received tonsure, and Revs. A. M. Kirsch, D. J. Hagerty, James Rodgers, P. J. Kollop and Joseph Scherer were ordained Subdeacons; and on the following morning, Revs. A. M. Kirsch and D. J. Hagerty were raised to the order of deaconship. We wish the newly-ordained success and prosperity, and look forward with pleasure to the day when we shall see them at the altar of the living God, offering for the first time the Most Holy Sacrifice. Ad multos annos.
—Our sanctum has been lately visited by two—we cannot say college papers—but two publications which have, perhaps, received their inspiration from college life. Both of them are from our western sister, Notre Dame. Prof. Lyons’ Scholastic Annual is of the nature of an almanac, though it contains quite a large amount of outside information. The other work is poetical, and is entitled Prd-udes. Its author is Maurice F. Egan, one of the lesser songsters of our country, whose sonnets have appeared in many of our magazines. It is published to aid in the rebuilding of the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Egan’s poems are inspired by high and pure feelings, and his power over words and metre is well displayed. The book is gotten up very handsomely. It is published by Cunningham & Son, Philadelphia. Notre Dame shows her training and influence to good advantage in these her two graduates. If good wishes could be converted into money, her worldly prosperity would be assured.—The Brunonian.
The 22d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held in their beautiful new Hall, Saturday evening, Feb. 14th. At this meeting the semi. annual election of officers took place, resulting as follows: Very Rev. Father Corby, C. S. C., Director; Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. 8. C., General Critic; J. A. Lyons, A M., President; J. F. Edwards, LL. B. Honorary President; Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter; J. A. Gibbons, 1st Vice-President; W. J. McCarthy, 2d Vice-President; M. J. Burns, Historian; A. Rieiz, Treasurer; A. Caren, Recording Secretary; C. A. Tinley, Corresponding Secretary; F. Phillips, Librarian; E. Orrick, 1st Censor; E. Otis, 2d Censor; F. Grever, 1st Monitor; F. Quinn, 2d Monitor; G. Foster, E. Sugg, and J. Homan, Property Managers; R. E. Fleming, Prompter; J. Morgan, Sergeant-at-arms; A. Burger, Marshall; W. Thompson, Clerk of Moot Court; R. Weny, Orpheonic Representative. Master A. Rock was elected to membership. The society is the largest at Notre Dame, numbering forty members. Prof. Ackerman, of ’54, was elected an honorary member. A vote of thanks was tendered Bros. Simon and Leander for favors received. Several subjects for debate were given out to be discussed at future meetings. The following young gentlemen were then appointed public readers for the coming week: Master J. Gibbons, M. J. Burns, H. L. Rose, A. Caren, C. A. Tinley, J. Weitzel and E. Orrick. Prot. Howard, A. M., has kindly consented to lecture before the members on “ Political Economy ” at an early day. Prof. Stace, A. M., will also lecture and give several dramatic readings; and Prof. King, late of New York, is expected to give a Shakespearian reading some time in April. Several other prominent speakers will address the Association on important topics during the session.
—The following is the programme of the Washington’s Birthday Entertainment to be given this evening in Washington Hall, by the Thespians:
Opening March........................N.	D. U. C. Band
Address................................J. B. McGrath
Oration................................J. B.Berteling
Overture.................................Orchestra
HEARTWELL AT HAMFORD,
OB, Firm Friends and “Fast Friends.”
Dramatis Persona.
Mr. Kyndwin, President.................Thomas	Simms
378
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Mr. Sharp, Vice-President.................Ben.	Pollock
Mr. Wells, Professor...................Patrick Larkin
Larry O’ Toole, servant, (“ A clane swape ”)... Dan’l Donahue Ernest Heartwell, an Undergraduate (true to the core,). ...............................................JohnB.	McGorrisk
Willie Lovejoy, a Freshman, (Rather young yet). ...........................................Frank	Bloom
Johnny Winkles, Willie’s chum (fondof fun)...Wm. Arnold Merriman, an Undergraduate (“Let’s us have a lark,”) ....................................Bernard	Claggett.
Rufus, an Undergraduate (“Always on hand,”) George Sugg Loftus Swellington, an Undergraduate (“Awli.”) .......................................John	B. McGrath
Simon de Verd, a Freshman (Sold again)... .Walter Reardon McGrubber, an Undergraduate, (“ Lend us a cigarette ”)
Reinhardt, an Undergraduate..............Francis	X. Wall
Doubleday,an Undergraduate (“Satan preaching against
Sin,”)................................John	B. Berteling
Raymond, (“A soft spot yet?')............Robert Keenan
Sordie Levi, Pawnbroker (“ Yes, ma tear—yes,”) .........................................John	B. McGrath
Hon. W. Lovejoy, “Willie’s father........George Clarke
Mr. Heartwell, “ Ernest’s father........Dan’l	Denahey
Redderville, Detective...................Michael Burns
List of Excellence.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.] COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—J. B McGrath, F. W. Bloom, J. P. Kinney, A. J. Burger, H. Wathen, E. Orrick, R. O’Brien; Moral Philosophy —T. Simms, A. J. Burger, J. B. McGrath ; English Composition ------; Rhetoric—F. Quinn, F. Grever, F. Clarke, E. Orrick, C. Hagan, W. J. McCarthy ; Greek—J. B. McGrath, F. W. Bloom, E. Murphy, B. Claggett; English Literature---; Algebra— C. McDermott, W. J. McCarthy; Geometry—F. Grever, T. Quinn, G. Clarke, R. M. Anderson, W. Thompson, C. B. Van Deusen, J. Kurz, M. English, P. Larkin, A. Rock; Trigonometry —A. Rock ; Surveying—E. Orrick, R. Stewart, M. MeEniry, A. Zahm, W. McGorrisk, W. Arnold; Calculus—G. Sugg; Mechanics —G. Sugg; Dese. Geometry—A. J. Burger; Linear Drawing— R. Anderson, L. M. Proctor; Astronomy—G. Sugg; Physiology —F. Reeve, R. Anderson, J. O’Neill; Botany—R. Anderson, W. J. McCarthy; Zoology—M. J. Burns, R. Stewart; Geology—J. Berteling; Physics—F. Bloom, M. J. Burns; Chemistry—M. J. Burns; History-------------------------------.
BoH of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, W. H. Arnold, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, A J. Burger, J. P. Brice, F. M. Bell, F. Brennon, J. Casey, B. Casey, W. Connolly, G. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donahoe, D. Danahey, G. Donnelly, A Dobson, H. Deehan, J. H. Delaney, M. English, E. Fogarty, E. Gooley, I. J. Gittings, G. Harns, D. Harrington, W. Hamilton, R. C Johnson, C. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, R. A Keenan, J. Keena, F. Kinsella, C. Karins, J. Kurz, P. B. Larkin, A. A. Lent, R. Lanham, E. Lyncn, F. Lynch, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, E. Molitor, P. McCormick, C. Moore, M. Maloney, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, J. McNamara, J. A. McIntyre, L. Mathers, J. F. Mugg, J. Noonan, G. Nester, I. A Newton, R. C. O’Brien, J. Osher, J. O’Reilly, G. Pike, L. M. Proctor, W. Ryan, T. W. Simms, H. Simms, J. Solon, G. Sugg, P. F Shea, L. Slitzel, R. D. Stewart, J. Smith, L. Smith, C. B. Van Dusen, F. Wall, H. Wathan, C. Whalen, A. Zahm, T. Zeien,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Brown, A. J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, J. M. Boose, T. B. Byrne, A A. Bodine, F. Becker, N. J. Burns, M. G. Butler, V. G. Butler, F. L. Carter, A A. Caren, E. H. Croarkin, L. Cole, W. S. Cleary, J. Coleman, H. F. Devitt, T. F. Devitt, S. T. Deering, J. A Davis, F. T. Dever, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Flemming, G. C. Foster, H. G. Foote, P. J. Fletcher, J. J. Gordon, J. A Gibbons, F. Glade, H. G. Guynn, E. H. Gaines, M. E. Herrick, A C. Hierb, J. A Hermann, A. F. Hellebusch, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, J. M. Kelly, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, L. S. Keen, R. L. Le Bourgeois, S. Livingston, J. A Larkin, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, J. H. Meister, P. P. Nelson, A J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, E. A Otis, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, A P. Perley, R. M. Parrett, F. A Quinn, G. J. Quinn, A. Rietz, C. F. Kietz, F. J* Rettig, G. J. Ruodius, P. H. Kasche, J. Rappe, H. L. Rose, A S. Rock, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Start, J. M. Scanlan, R. C. Simms, C. Schneider, U. A Tinley, C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, M. A Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, W. T. Weny.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. E. Johnson, J. R. Bender, J. H. Dwenger, J. A Kelly, A. A. Molauder, J. S. Chaves, A. F. Sehmuckle, W. V. O’Malley, W. M. Olds, L. J. Young, H. J. Ackerman, F. B. Farrelly, E. N. O’Donnell, C. Youug, E. H. Bourdon, D. S. Taylor, G. Woodson, W. H. Hanaviu, J. J. Henry, G. C. Knight, G. J. Smith, A J. Campeau, F. Mattes, A Van Mourick, H. A Kitz, C. E. Droste, C. C. Echlin, H. P. Dunn.
Class Honors.
.	COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. B. McGrath, A. J. Burger, J. P. Kenny, J. B. Berteling, F. W. Bloom, R. Anderson, H. Wathan, M. MeEniry, D. Harrington, B. J. Claggett, M. T. Bums, G. Sugg, W. B. McGorrisk, A Zahm, W. J. McCarthy, W. Arnold, E. Murphy, T. Simms, A S. Rock, F. Grever, E. Orrick.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—At the regular meeting of St. Angela’s Literary Society the reading was from the Ave Maria.
—Reading in the refectory: “Religion in Society,” Translated from tne French of the Abbe Martinet.
—At the regular meeting of St, Clotilde’s French Literary Society the i eading was “ La Vie, de La Bruydre."
—Thanks are returned to Mr. Mendenhall, of Chicago, for a rare collection of neatly-labeled minerals sent to the museum.
—At the regular meeting of St. Gertrude’s German Literary Society the reading was “Der gelehrige Kanarienvogeiy by Father Jacobs. Readers: Misses Galen and Salomon.
—At the regular meeting of St. Teresa’s Literary Society the reading was from a “Lecture ou Shakespeare,” by Cardinal Wiseman. Readers: Misses Keenan and Killelea.
—At the regular Academic reunion the reading was “The Two Kings,” by A. D., Miss Dallas; “Das Winterrosehen," by Korner, Miss Reinhard; “0 Happy Flowers,” by Father Faber, Miss Killelea; “ Le Fantasque,” by Fenelon, Miss Keenan.
—At the regular meeting of St. Angela's Literary Society the reading was from “ Literature,”-by Hart; “ Goody Blake and Harry Gill,” Wordsworth; “ A Singing Lesson,” by Jean Ingelow; “ Keeping His Word,” by Mrs. Preston; etc. Readers: Misses Simms and Reinhard.
—Visitors: Mrs. Killelea, Master M. and J. Killelea, Ottawa, Ill.; Mr. Jacob Wile, Laporte, lud.; Mr. Fisher, South Bend; Mrs. Chirhart, Notre Dame; Mr.Berolzheim, Mrs. Salomon, Mrs..Horner, and Miss Horner, Chicago; Mrs. Boyer, Cassopolis, Mich.; Mr. Engel, Mrs. Engel, Miss Engel, Mr. and Mrs. Zimmerman, Goshen, Ind.;-Mrs. Smith, Harris Prairie; Miss Ball, Lafayette, Ind.; Mr. Miller, Green, Iowa.
—At the regular meeting of St. Catherine’s Literary Society the reading was “ The Hospital Anfredi,” an historical narrative of the thirteenth century; “A Story of Exile,” taken from the times of Pope Pius V, from “ Holiday Conversations,” by the author of “ Tyborne ”; “ My Life is like a Summer Rose,” by Wilde; Readers: Misses Dallas and Claffey. Misses Lloyd and Dillon answered historical questions connected with the reading with great accuracy.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
honorably mentioned in the
Graduating Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 1st Class —Misses Gordon, Buck. 2d Div.—Misses Neu, Usselman, Sulli


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC'.'!	379
van. 2d Class—Kirchner, Rosing, Killelea, Farrell, Campbell. 2d Div.— Misses Hackley, McMahon. 3d Class—Misses McGrath, I. Semmes, Callinan, Salomon, Gall, Reinhard, Bruser, Welle, Piersol, Dallas, Cortright. Mattingly, Maloney. 2d Div. —Misses C. Hackett. Julius, Woodin, Donnelly, H. Hackett. Bischoff, English, A. Ewing, Horner. 4th Class—Misses Davis, Crummey, Price, Palmer, Cavenor, C. Campbell. 2d Div.— Misses Garrity. Otto, Hamilton, French, Fox, Leydon, Mitchel), Van Namee. 5th Class—Misses O’Connor, C. Wathen, Purdy, Regensburg, Wuetzburg, Claffey. Loeber, Keys, Danaher, Casey, O’Neill, A. Dillon, Gavan, Paddock. 2d Div.—Misses Orr, Dessaint, Harrison, Gibbons, Lancaster, Hutchinson, Legnard, J. Wells. Hammond, Feeban, S. Wathen, Simms, Reutlinger, Wall, Populorum, C. Lancaster, Moxon, Lloyd, Tallman, Thompson, E. Populorum, M. Fitzgerald. 6th Class—Misses Rasche. Walsh, Fleming. Barlow, Duncan, Carter, McFadden, Greensbaum, Neteler, Murphy, De Lapp, Baroux. C. Ryan, Papin, E. Rvan, Chirhart. 2d Div.—Misses Fishburne, Ginz, Watson, G Taylor, Zimmerman, Clarke, Ward. Edelen, A. Taylor, Cox, Lemontey, Moll, Wright, Wilkins. 7th Class— Misses Engel, E. Lloyd, Halloran, Smith, McCormick, Reynolds, McCloskey, McCoy, I. Hackett. 8th Class—Misses—B. Garrity, Butts, Fisk, Cleghorn, Heeney. 9th Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, M. Baroux, Chaves. 10th Class—Misses P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Strong.
Harp 1st Class—Miss Galen. 2d Div.—Misses I. Semmes, Dillon. 3d Class—Miss Bruser,
Organ—Misses C. and S. Wathen.
Theoretical Classes.
Private Harmony.—1st Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 2o Class—Misses Gordon and Buck. 3d Class—Misses Usselman, Neu.
Elements of Thorough Bass—Misses Sullivan, Kirchner, McMahon, Rosing, Farrell, Gall, A. Ewing, Campbell, Semmes, Cortright.
General Theoretical.—Misses, Dallas, C. Hackett, E. Hackett, Hackley, Cavenor, Wells, English, Julius, Bischoff, Salomon, Rheinhard, Danaher, Purdy. Mattingly, Donnelly, Campbell, Rasche, Murphy. Garrity, Moxon, S. Wathen. A. Dillon, Casey, Hamilton, Claffey, Price, Fox, J. Wells, Orr, Taylor, C. Ryan, E. Ryan, Populorum, Thompson, E. Populorum, Moll. Flemming, Lancaster, C. Lancaster, McCloskey, Ginz, Chirhart, Papin, Carter, Barlow, Keys, Leydon, Gavan, French. These are particularly mentioned for regular attendance and strict attention.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Kirchner, Gordon. 2d Class —Misses Usselman, Hackett. 3d Class—Misses Farrell, Bruser, Rosing, Mattingly, O’Connor, Rheinhard, Sullivan, Callinan, Buck, Salomon, Julius, McGiath, A. Ewing. 4th Class— Misses O'Neill, Otto, I. Semmes, E. Hackett, French, Mitchell, Purdy. 5th Class—Misses Moxon, Rasche, 8. Wathen, English.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
1st Class—Misses Neteler, Hambleton, Buck. 2d Class— Misses Lancaster, L. Lancaster, Fox, J. Wells, Thompson, Wall, Winston. 3d Class—Misses Callinan, Feehan, Baroux, Hammond.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Sullivan, Papin. 3d Class—Misses Otto, Butts, Loeber, Casey.
China Painting—Miss Dallas.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses I. Semmes, Killela, Dillon, A. Ewing, Mattingly. 3d Class—C. Campbell, Dessaint, Gavan, English, French, Zahm.
GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Misses A. Ryan, Fitzgerald, Donnelly, C. Hackett, Tailman, Murphy, M. Simms, Gall, Quinn Halloran, Edelen, Rasche, McMahon.
Junior Department—Misses Gibbons, Hutchison, Clarke, Carter, Legnard, Reuthlinger, Duncan, Claffey, Harrison, Lemontey, E. Populorum, Gibbons, Paquette, C. Ryan, E. Ryan, McCloskey.
Ornamental Needlework.—Misses Quinn, Danaher, Otto, Gavan, Mitchell, Smith. Donnelly, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Murphy, Callinan, Orr, Populorum, Piersol, Wall, Hammond, Rasche, Thompson, Reinhard, Halloran, Saloman, Horner, Cox, McCloskey, E. Populorum, S. Papin, Carter, Gibbons, Wilkins, E. Papin.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Woodin, Hambleton, Ewing, Neteler, Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Cortright, Rosing, Buck, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Dannaher, Kirchner, Gordon, I. Semmes, Dillon, Neu, Usselman, Smith, Walsh,
Mattingly, Cronin, O’Neill, Loeber, Gall. Fitzgerald, Donnelly, Dallas, Wells, Bruser, Bischoff, McMahon, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Palmer, Taylor, Zahm, Campbell, Keys, Murphy, Lancaster, Simms, Price, Baroux, Gavan, Horner, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Salomon, Thompson, Rheinhard, Rasche, Halloran, Wright, Engel, Wurzburg, Keena, Wall, Edelen, Tallman, j McCormick, Paddock, Brown, Krieg, par excellence. Misses ; Keenan, Maloney, Hackett, A. Ewin?, L'oyd, Otto, Mitchell, Winston, DeLapp, English, Julius, Dessaint, Davis, Orr, Ham mond, McFadden, Purdy, Cleghorn, Leydon, Moxon, Cox.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon. Fox, C. Campbell, French, Van Namee, S. Semmes, Casey, Crummey. G. Taylor, Mc-Closkey, C. Ryan, C. Lancaster, Reutlineer, Chirhart, Leonard, Ginz, Paquette, Hutchison, Jaeger, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Strawn, I. Hickett, M. F. Fitzgerald, Robinson. M. Baroux, Campeau, 'par excellence. Misses Feehan, Bnrts, Populorum, Papin, Wells, Carter, Gibbons, Duncan, E. Populorum, Clarke, Hale, Harrison, E. Papin.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
OM. PROCTOR [of ’75J, Civ 1 ingineer of City and County of Bikhirt. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention give” to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTIIUR J. !ST ACE [of’64], County Surveyor for 21. St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Attorneys at Law\
JAMES FI. WA RD, (of ’73.) Attorney and Counsellor at L-iw, Rooms 61 and 65 Metropolitan Block, N. W. Cor.
La Stile and Randolph Sts., Chicago, Ih.
SPEER <fc MITC1IRLL (N. S. Mitchell, of’72) A.t to-ne.s at Law, No. 225 Bra^y St., Davenport, Iowa.
mUOMAS B. CEIFFORD lof ’62). Atto’-ney at
1 Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 B oadway .cot. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
JOHN F. McIIUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, No ary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Mam St., Elkhart, Ind.
WILLIAM J. CLARKE (<>f’74), Attorney at Law.
Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building. No 67 S Hich St, Columbus, O.
JAMES A. O’REILLY-of ’69— Atto-ney at Law, t27 Court St., Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
DA1NIEL I?. IHRBARO, Jr ; (of ’70), Attorney
at Law. Specii attention given to Collecdons. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Mile West of Notre Dame).
■ Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
980
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 16, 1879.
| L. S. & M. S. Railway.
j On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as
	•Mail	♦Day Express.		•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Nil- s	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson 	 Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m q 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 90 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 •* 6 30 “		4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p m. 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 10 pm 11 30 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	•Mail	♦Day Express.		♦Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	* tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ tackson	 “ Kalamazoo - • “ Niles - - - -“ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago	1	7 CiO a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p. m 3 05 “ 4 3r> “ 6 50 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		5 55p.m 4 50 a, m 6 50 *• 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 pm. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 *• 5 30 “ 8 00 “ 1	810 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 3 30 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
IN lies and South Bend Division.						
♦GOING NORTH Lv So. Bind—8 45 a.m. 6 31 p.m “ N. Dame-8 52 “ 638 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “			♦GOING 8> »UTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. °o. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “			
t Saturday and Sunday excepted. H B. Ledyard,
♦Sunday excepted. tDany.
Henry C. Wentworth, • G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill.
__ „ .	Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Mich.
G. L. Elliott. Agent, South Bend. Ind.
2 25 a.m., Chicago and St. bonis Express, over Main Une, arrives at Toledo 950; Cleveland 230 p.m; Buffalo 805p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13 16 p.m. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 13 p.m, A'lantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.	.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6a.m.	-
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a in, Acrommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raw, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
Condensed Time Table, Nov. IO, 1878.
The Chicago & North-Western Hailawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LIN is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northe Wisconsin and Minn sota, and for Madison. St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in ihe Great Northwest Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona. Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and ah points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine. Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are. run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
			No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
	Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive		1145 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9 00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 535 “ 713 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
	Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima	 Ft. Wavne				7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5 40 p.m. 7.35 “ 900 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 1225 a.m. 240 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	• • • • • • • • •
						• •••• • • • •
	Plymouth,. Chicago,..					
						
						
	G(		EAST.			
			No. 4, Night Ex	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
	Chicago	Leave Plymouth,			9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 655 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30 a m 2.33 “ 4.05 “	• •••••••••
	Ft. Wayne,						
	Lima,						
	Forest,						
	Crestline,	Arrive					
						
	Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh	Arrive		1205 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4 00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 am. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 P.M. 3.30
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train Nd. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line thaf runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale al all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEES, GF. E & I. A
THE NOTKE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	381
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Name in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. IL EDWARDS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, ANTI JEWELRY. All Kinds of Engraving Dole. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
0 Hi Ph
*4 di
V) o
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R
ix
'A
£
O
।
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING MNK
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo. Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City. Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton. Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport. Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; DesMoines to Indianolaand Winterset; Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars arealsorun between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “MUwaukee and Rock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST I Dining Cars for eating purposes cnly. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At ENGLEWOOD, with theLS. & M.S., andP., Ft. W. AC. R. Rds.
At WASHINGTON HEIGHTS, with P-, C. & St. L. R. R.
At LA Salle, with III. Cent. R. R.
At PEORIA, with P. P. & J-; P.D. &E.; L B. 4 W.; Ill. Mid.: and T. P. & W. Rds. '
At ROCK ISLAND, with “Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d & Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C.M.ASt. P.R.R.
At West Liberty, with the B., C.R. A N.R.R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. R.
At DES Moines, with D. M. A F. D. R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R. At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. in Neb.) At Columbus J unction, with B..C. R. & N. R.R. At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR-R.;W., St. L. & Pao, and C. B. A Q. R. Rds.
At KEOKUK, with Tol., Peo. A War.; Wab., St. Louis A Pac., and St. L., Keo. A N.-W. R- Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch.. Topeka A Santa Fe; Atch. A Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pac., and Kan. Cent. R. Rds.
At Kansas CITY, with all Unes for the West and Southwest.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS are ran through to PEORIA, RES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS. KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVENWORTH.
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Rock Island Route,’* are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address, A. KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN.
Gen’l Superintendent.
Gen’l Tkt. and Paaa’gr Agu Chicago, HL
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commc dious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected ; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects wnich the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C^ Notre Dame P. 0^ Indiana.