I) c
PUBLISHED AVEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME.
jBmted ta flu |ttteKSts at the Jiudentis.
“ LABOR OM3XIA. VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UMVEESITY OF NOTES DAME, IND,, JANUAEY 2, 1869. Ho. 17;
Our Law Department. _______________ »
We publish to-day the prospectus and programme of studies of the Law Course,, which will begin on the-lst of February next. Such a course has long been felt to be a desideratum at Notre Dame; and in now establishing a Law faculty the authorities feel that they are supplying a want which has been long experienced, as well as meeting the wishes of a large number of persons who have learned to appreciate their system and success in the other departments of the university.
In drawing up a plan of Law studies, regard has been had, in the first place, to the wants and requirements of the country. Young men are desirous of getting through their studies as rapidly as possible in order to begin their career in life. The zeal thus displayed is highly commendable, but, unless their studies are thorough and complete, many are the difficulties and drawbacks to which they are exposed. Heretofore when these great Western States were less developed than they are at present, the aspirants for legal honors were, from want of means and opportunity, obliged to-content themselves with the smallest modicum of legal training. But, in these latter days the country has increased beyond all parallel. The progress of advancement has been unabated. Nothing has been stationary. And while material prosperity has been so great, why should the department of education be alone deficient in vigor. This great national development calls imperiously for a higher educational tone. In the future those who seek wealth and preferment in the ranks of the legal profession will have to contend against more varied intellectual resources than was the case in times past.
Guided by these considerations and others kindred to the subject, the authorities sought to pre
sent a programme of studies comprehensive in its scope, and which could be completed in the shortest space of time consistent with the magnitude and importance of the studies. The course, consisting of five classes, will extend through a period of two years during which time students will have an opportunity of studying all the branches of the legal profession, from the first principles of Law to the trial of an action in court. At the end of the course, successful students will receive the degree of LL B, which in most, if not in all the States, will be sufficient to insure admission to the bar.
The faculty will commence its duties on the 1st of February next, and in taking its place among the Law schools of the country rests its hope of success on the soundness of its teaching, and its endeavors to advance the interests of the students by a liberal and enlightened course of legal training, o	o
Prospectus of the Law Faculty.
The aim of this faculty is to prepare young gentlemen for the practice of the legal profession by a full and comprehensive course of instruction in the principles of the science of Law. With this view the plan of studies has been carefully prepared so as to embrace all the departments of public and private Law, together with the principles of practice and the law of evidence.
The degrees granted by the faculty are those of Bachelor, Master, and Doctor of Laws; LL. B., LL M. and LL. D.-
The complete course will be made in two years, the terms, of which there are four, corresponding with those of the other faculties of the university. At the end of the course students who have passed a^uccessful examination, and who have in other re-
1
130
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
spects satisfied the requirements of the university will he entitled to receive the degree of LL. B.
Students presenting themselves for matriculation in this faculty will be expected to have a good liberal education. Those, however, who may not have completed their studies in the faculty of arts, will have an opportunity of doing so, without extra charge, while prosecuting their legal studies.
The proficiency of students will be tested, from time to time, by examinations and theses. And at the end of each term, there will be a general examination on all the subjects treated during the term.
Besides the course of general instruction, students will receive every assistance in studying the Laws peculiar to their respective States. Students intending to practice where the civil laws of France obtain, can, if necessary, have the benefit of instruction in the French language.
And, as it is a matter of the highest importance to a young lawyer, that on being admitted to the practice of his profession, he should be able to express himself clearly, fluently and in a methodical manner, ample opportunities will be afforded to cultivate the art of public speaking. For this end, and in order to enable students to acquire those habits of self-command and quickness of decision so characteristic of the learned and accomplished lawyer, a Moot Court will be held from time to time, under the direction of a professor, at which questions of Law
may be discussed and mock trials held. For the cultivation of other species of eloquence still further facilities will be afforded in the literary associations of the university.
Besides the ordinary prizes, granted in the different classes, at the end of each collegiate year, there will also be two grand prizes of $50.00 and $40.00 each, awarded respectively (subject to the rules and regulations of the university), to the best and second best treatise or discourse, as the case may be, written by students of the graduating class, on some subject chosen by the faculty, and which will be submitted in due time and form.	-
Diplomas, granting degrees, will be delivered only at the annual commencement held after the expiration of each collegiate year.	•
, Gentlemen intending to follow the course of Law in this faculty are advised to present themselves at the beginning of a term, and, if possible, at the beginning of the first term of the collegiate year. The propriety of this recommendation will be fully appreciated when it is understood that at those times preliminary lectures will be delivered for the purpose of making the student’s way more clear and rendering his subsequent labors more easy and profitable. Students arriving late in a term will be deprived of the benefit of these preliminary lectures.
Further information may be obtained by addressing Rev. W. Corby, S. S. C., President of the University.
FIRST CLASS.* SECOND CLASS*	THIRD CLASS.	FOURTH CLASS.	FIFTH CLASS.
First Tear.	First Tear.	First Tear.	First Tear.	First Tear.
Political Economy. Or- Introduction to thestudy igin, nature and divisions of Roman Law. Insti-of Laws. Principles of tutes of Justinian. Legislation.	'	Common Law of England. Public and Private Law.	Obligations, Principles of. How contracted, modified, interpreted and extinguished.	Criminal Law and Procedure. Medical Jurisprudence.
Second Tear.	Second Tear. Constitutional Law of	Principles of Civil Ju- the United States.	risprudence as contained in the Pandects, Code and Novels.	'	Second Tear. Jurisprudence of the United States.	Second Tear. The Law of Contracts, Civil and Commercial.	Second Tear. Practice at Law and Equity. The Law of Evidence.
classes.
pass an
m
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	131
German.
Of the earliest history of Germany no records remain. The Romans, before the time of Julius Caesar, knew little or nothing of the people living east of the Rhine and north of the Danube. At the time of the conquest of Gaul (France), the Romans learned that the country beyond the Rhine contained numerous people, who, although barbarians according to the standard of civilization at that time, had fixed settlements and were agriculturists. They were called Germani, either, as Strabo asserts, because they were nearly related—brothers german—to the inhabitants of Gallia, or, which is more probable, from the weapons they carried (ger a spear, or wehr arms). If the latter theory be correct Germans would mean spearmen, or warriors. -
Modern inquiries, however, have traced the descent of the Germanic race from the inhabitants of Asia; since it is now indisputably established that the Teutonic dialects belong to one great family with the Latin, Greek, the Sanscrit, and the other languages of the Indo-Germanic chain. .
Von Hammer calls the Germans a Bactriano-Median nation. He makes the name Germani, in its primitive import, to have meant those who followed the worship of Buddha, and hence the Germans, according to him, are that ancient and primitive race who came down from the mountains of Upper Asia, the cradle of the human species, and, spreading themselves over the low country more to the south, gave origin to the Persian and other early nations. Hence the name Dschermania applied in early times to all that tract of country which lay to the north of the Oxus. The land of Erman, therefore which was situated beyond this river, and which corresponds to the modern Chorassan, is made by Von Hammer, the native home of the Germanic race; and the Germans themselves are, as he informs us, called Eschermani, their .primitive name, by the Oriental writers down to the four, teenth century. This latter theory of the derivation of the name Germani is the one generally adopted at the present time by every scholar who has given the question a critical examination.
It remains certain, then, that the true origin of the word must be sought in the remote East.
Caesar and the generals of Augustus nominally subjected Germany; but when the Romans attempted to convert their nominal dominion into
real possession of the country, they were igno- " miniously defeated, and Germany was liberated by the chief of the Cheruscan tribe, Arminius, or Hermann, A. D. 9.
From that time the history of Germany is in part lost in vague traditions, and in part connected with the history of the Roman Empire for several centuries, until the country over which the whole torrent of the great migration of na- • tions had swept, became gradually united .with the great Frankish Empire of Clovis (481—511) and his* successors. From this date history is faithful in recording the various vicissitudes and changes of fortune, through which Germany passed until it has reached its present state of prosperity and power.
It is not my object to give a sketch of the general progress of the German Empire from this its first period of development, as this would include a historical survey of the greater part of Europe, which at this time had become the theatre of the subsequent progress of society, of the great transactions of the world down to our times.
I wish simply to draw attention to the German language and literature, its ancient state, its gradual advancement, its final development—a subject in a variety of respects peculiarly interesting.
The language is a branch of the old Teutonic ' tongue, which the German tribes carried with them over the greatest part of Europe. In France it was lost in the mixture of Roman and Gallic languages, from which sprung the modem French. In Spain it left but few traces. In England it united with the Latin and French to form the present English language. Its modifications, not more dissimilar to each other than different dialects, have remained written and spoken languages in Sweden, Norway, Belgium, Holland, Germany proper, and in the greater part of Switzerland. In the Middle Ages, the similarity between the idioms derived from the German was so great, that the German and English missionaries that went to Sweden, Denmark and Norway, had no difficulty in making themselves understood in those countries.
The changes of the language can be historically traced no further back than the middle of the fourth century, when Bishop Ulphilas introduced the art of writing it, and made a translation of the Bible. The language of this version is a mixture of High German amd Low German, with some foreign, perhaps Thracian, words, and
132	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
does not essentially differ from most of the present German dialects in its grammatical forms.
Charlemagne began a German grammar and made great efforts for improving the language, and promoting the progresss of poetry and letters. He established several monastic schools, formed a kind of learned society at his court, collected the monuments of the German language, in particular the ancient laws and songs, ordered the preaching to be in German, and caused several translations to be made from the Latin. His successors did not preserve the same spirit, but the separation of Germany from the Frankish Empire was favorable to the independent development of the German language and character. The greatest progress was made under the Saxon Emperors, particularly the three Othos. In the twelfth century Germany began to be settled and cultivated in its interior, and cities were founded. The monastic schools, the expeditions to Italy, the crusades, the commerce which took its way from the East through Germany, had diffused knowledge. Acquaintance with foreign countries, with science and refinement had contributed much to the cultivation of the nation. In the fourteenth century, the establishment of universities, and in the fifteenth, the invention of the art of printing, made new epochs in literature. In the beginning of the sixteenth century the Reformation of the Church was begun by Luther (1517), who, during his sharp polemical discussions began to improve his.style, and gave the literary language, the High German, which had been formed amidst the different spoken dialects, authority and grammatical consistency.
The thirty years’ war (1618-1648) threatened to stop all the civilization in Germany. That period of havoc, in which the noblest energies of Germany were destroyed, forms in history the great wall of separation between the ancient Germany, which in the Middle Ages was the most powerful, flourishing and wealthy country of Europe, and the new Germany of recent and happier times, which is now gradually recovering from her long exhaustion and general desolation, and rising again into life and light and power from the sepulchral darkness—the night of death—to which her ancient domestic disputes had consigned her.
[to be continued.]
He who is right, and is doing right, need not : 'stop to inquire who or what stands with him
[From onr Correspondent.]
Mauritius Isle, Indian Ocean.
At daylight on the morning of June 12th, the land of the Isle of France was sighted off our starboard bow, and at noon we were snug at anchor in the harbor. All the manners, habits, customs and interests of this little island were once identified in connexion with the Bourbon Islands with its mother country France, but the avaricious hand of England came in and wrenched possession of it, and now Port Louis, the only settlement of any importance, is under the flag of the Queen of England. The environs of this place are extremely hilly and undulating and rock-bound like the coast of Africa.
If there is nothing else that attaches ■ interest to Port Louis, it is rendered historical by the fact of being the habitation of the two model lovers Paul and Virginia; which romance of real life is quite as familiar as household words. Aged people here remember their ancestors to have mourned the loss of Paul, who was better known to them than Virginia on account of the absence of the latter some years previous to her death. They speak of the procession of the inhabitants from the beach to their graves. _
A passage of seventeen days of mingled mild and tempestuous weather from the Cape of Good Hope was not calculated to inspire any of us with the desire to visit shore, accordingly we reluctantly refrained from calling a bateaux alongside until the next day. The second day thereafter our first visit was to the Consulate, thence to see the graves of Paul and his dead bride. We were trudged (by a guide) along a muddy road for a considerable distance until we reached the gate of the grave-yard where sat a superannuated native begging for alms and allowing us to approach the grave after giving him a few pennies. We asked him if the graves were held sacred, and in French he replied, amounting to “Yes, to us purity personified is in that grave” and “ we take tol], ^9 keep it in repair.” It is a mistake that both were buried together in one grave. They are side by side in two mounds and a stream of water of the purest crystal flows noiselessly by at their feet. Two head stones of exceeding rough * workmanship stand at the forward part of their graves with not even a letter to vouch for who rests under them. It was sarcastically remarked by one of us, “If you' take toll to keep it in repair, I’il give double toll if you don’t,”—thereby meaning and intending it was an outrageously

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
138
miserable sepulchre for two whose lives were from childhood so intertwined that death came to one as soon as he heard life had deserted the tenement of his betrothed.
As a governmental courtesy we saluted the English colors with twenty-one guns which was answered by a fort at the entrance of the harbor with the same number, the flashes of which could be seen for thirty seconds before the reports were heard. Several detachments of red-coat’ infantry boarded us for inspection. Their sergeants ' have three stripes with a bullion crown of England in the smallest angle. It is a curious sight to see the different specimens of the genus homo.
The natives commenced coaling with small baskets not holding more than a quarter of a peck which necessarily makes the operation long and tedious. These people have rings of heavy silver in their ears and others again have immense bracelets around their wrists and ankles. The men take the place of the women as far as regards the wearing of jewelry. But be they one or the other, the inevitable cast-away coffee sack constitutes their only bureau of clothing. These coolies each have an oblong tin box, spheroid shaped, in which are their respective photographs. The masters of these coolies (sometimes called Madras-men) have the pictures taken in order that they may claim all work performed by them in case they desert their old employers—a curious law but nevertheless implicitly obeyed. These also act as passports; w’ithout one the delinquent is liable to be cast into prison, with one he may hire himself out provided he has first obtained the permission of his master.
The people of Paris, that place of refinement, would blush at the massacre of their tongue by these mongrel French. The land surrounding this town is the least picturesque of any we have seen since leaving home. It is low and miasmatic in some places, when suddenly not a mile from this “ Pandora’s Box” the land runs high, from the top of which a splendid sea breeze can be obtained to relieve one from the horrid stench of the low lands.	G. F. B. C.
Three hundred and twenty-four newspapers in Europe are printed in the German language.
Most of the St. Petersburg journals are printed in the French language. All the educated Russians speak French.
OLLEGE BtTLJLETITV. ;
Arrival of Students at IV. Dame.
December 18th.	.
Richard Power, Bally Clough, Iowa.
December 30th. .
James P. Kane, . Ypsilanti, Mich.
Monthly Certificates.
The certificates, this month, we are glad to say it, are far more numerous than they were the the preceding month, showing thereby a real progress and a marked improvement in every class.
Those who keep steadfast at the head of their classes have, as expected from them, the largest share in the number of certificates. We praise them for it, and we trust that they will never lose any. We sincerely congratulate the many who have nearly doubled the number of certificates they formerly received.	’
We regret that some did not deserve a sufficient number to be allowed the privilege of a mention; but hope that they, too, will make an effort and bravely shake off their distrust of their own abilities. In order that it may be known by the readers of the Scholastic Year who are those whose conduct, during the past month, has been • exemplary, and who have thereby deserved a certificate of Good, Conduct, we have signified it by the letter c placed after their names.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. W. Arrington, 5 c; G. Atkinson, 4; H. C. Allen, 3c; R. L. Aikin, 5-; H. Bird, 4 c; I. Bud-deke, 6; J. Cunnea, 5; S. Corby, 4c; D. A. Clarke, 7 c; F. Crapser, 6 c; M. Carney, 3 c; J. Curran, 5c; R. B. Coddington, 3; D. W. Coonce, 4; L. G. Dupler, 7 c; T. E. Downing 4; J. Eisenman, 6c; H. Eisenman, 7 c; J. Edwards, 5 c; J. Dickinson, 6 c; L. G. Dunnavan,. 5 c; D. J. Diemer, 3c; J. Duffy, 3; E. Fitzharris, 7 c; P. Fizpatrick, 4 c; J. Gavitt, 3; B. F. Granger, 3; J. M. Grier,’6 c;' E. B. Gambee, 4; J. Garharstihe, 7 c; J..Garrity,- 5 c; H; Hoynes, 4c; J; Harrison, M. Hite, 4 c; P. Heery, 5 c; C. Ilgenfritz,c; J. Korb, 5 ; H. B. Keeler,: 7 c; T. Kinsella, 5 c;
134	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
J. Kloetzle, 3c; J. EL Lecompte, 7c; W. Lence, 5 c; C. McCarthy, 6; P. McKeon, 3 c; B. Mathers, 3; J. Montgomery, 6 c; F. Metzger, 4 c; W. McClain, 4 c; H. P. Morancy, 4 c; A. Maierhoffer, 7 c; J. McGlynn, 3 c; O. Mosely, 4 c; EE. Nunne-maker, 3; J. Mader, 5c; A. EE. Menard, 5 c; -T O’Mahoney, 7 c; T. O’Neil, 4 c; J. O’Reilly, 4 c; W. Orr, 3; G. Price, 3; C. Parker, 3; W. P. Rhodes, 5c; M. S. Ryan, 5c: P. Rhodes, 5 c; L. Reswick, 3; J. P. Rogers, 7c; A. Reilly, 7 c;
J. Roby, 4c; W. H. Sangster, 4; C. Sage, 6c;' C. Stuart, 3; J. Shanahan, 3 c; L. Schmeider, 5 c; BE. Schelker, 4 c; EE. Schnelker, 3; D. Tighe,4c; J. Vocke, 7 c; B. Vocke, 8 c; T. Watson, 3; E Watson, 3; W. Walker, 8 c; A. B. White, 7 c; H. Wrape, 5 c; S. Wright, 4; G. Webb, 3 c; C. M. Wenger, 8 c; W.^Waldo, 6 c; F. P. Wood, 5 c. J. Zahm, 6 c.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Alber, 5 c; T. Arrington, 5 ; E. J. O’Bryan, 6; M. Brannock, 5 c; L. Billings, 3; R. Broughton, 6 c; R. Beggah, 3c; C. Berdell, 7; J. Broderick, 6 c; E. Bahm, 3 c; D. Bland, 6 c; F. Bulger, 4; EL Beakey 7c; D. S. Bell, 5 c; A. Cabel, 3 c;. J. Grevoisier, 6; P. Cochrane, 7 c; F. Curtis, 5; W. Carson, 2; W. Clarke, 4; D. Cooney, 5 c; J. Coppinger, 5 c; J. Campbell, 3 ; S. Dum, 4 c; J. Dooley, 7 c; C. Duffy, 4; F. P. Dwyer, 5 c; J. Deehan, 4; R. Delahay, 5 ; W. Dugdale, 3 c; D. Egan, 5 c; J. Falley, 5 c; M. Foote, 8; J. Gillespie, 3; J. Goodhue, 5; H. Hayes, 3; A. Hemste-ger, 5 c; H. Hug, 6 c; G. Hug, 4c; B. Heffernan, 7; V. Hackmann, 9 c;. C. Hutchings, 4c; F. Ingersoll, 7 c; J. Johnson, 4ih~-C. Jevne, 3 c; J. Kelly, 4 c; J. Krautz, 3 c; J. Kline, 5 c; G. Kah-man, 6 c; D. Lauferty, 4 c; E. Lafferty, 4 c; C. Morgan, 5 c; F. Miers, 3; H. Morgan, 6 c; J. Mulhall, 4 c; G. McCartney, 9c; J. McGuire, 9 c; N. Mitchell, 6 c; M. McGinley, 5 c. J. Murphy,* 4 c; J. McHugh, 5; C. Marantette, 4c; R. McCarthy, 9 c; M. Mahony, 6; F. 'Nicholas, 8; J-Nash, 6 c; M. Ody, 5 ; J. Orb, 4 c; H. Odendahl, 3; EL O’Neil, 4 c; C. O’Neill, 5 c; E. Odendahl, 3 c; J. Pfeiffer, 3 ; J. Parnell, 4 c; H. Potter, 3 c;
. J. Rhem, 3; J. Rumley, 6 c; E. Ryan, 3 c; J. Ryan, 9c; J. Roberts, 4 c; R. Staley, 9; F. Spencer, 7 c; W. B. Small, 5; G. Redfield, 4; J Staley, 4; G. T'errell, 3; A. Trentman, 5 c; W. Taylor, 4; N. Terrell, 5 c; J. Thompson, 4 c; P. Tinan, 7 c; D. Wile, 6 c; A. Wile, 5 c; A. Wetherbee, 5 ; J. Ward, 4 c; Z. Vandeveer, 3 c; E. Wile, 4; W. Wallace, 5; L. Wilson, 6; C. Walter, 4; W. Wilstach, 3 c; J. Wilson, 9 c.
St. Edward’s Literary Association.
Its Seal.
We present this week to our friends and to all the readers of the Scholastic Year, a copy of our Literary Seal. The design is by Professor C. A. B. Von Weller, and its interpretation as follows: The Books, Scroll and Pen, represent the various departments of Literature. The Torch indicates Science. The Cup (the container for the contained) represents the pleasure to be derived from Literature and Science. The Serpent symbolizes Prudence, and rising as it does from the Cup of Pleasure, shows that in all our pursuits, pleasure and enjoyment must be always tempered with prudence. The Buckle in the band denotes the tie of Friendship which unites all our members in one. The character at the base of the seal is composed of the letters N. D., forming the monogram of the University—Notre Dame.
Some may wish to know why we got up this seal. Well, the reason is very simple: We wished to have some token by which all our members may be constantly reminded, in after life, of the Literary Association, of which, during their college days, they justly deemed it an honor and a benefit to be members. We did not think proper to adopt a badge, for the simple reason that had we done so we would not be satisfied with an inferior quality, and this would necessitate an unwarrantable expense, especially as this*would be entailing an expense upon our successors without their consent. For this reason, we concluded to have certificates of membership got up in a neat style for framing, and authenticated by our literary seal, so That each member may carry onew ith him on his departure from college, to serve as a perpetual remembrance c f an Association we all love so well. From letters which we occasionally receive from members of past years, who are now doing their duty as men and active members of society, we feel satisfied that such a memento will be highly appreciated,
A copy of this certificate .will be published in the Scholastic Yzab as soon as the design is completed.
H* B. Keelek, Sec’y.
Guilt is that which quells the courage of the bold, ties the tongue of the eloquent, and makes greatness itself sneak and lurk, and behave itself poorly.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
135
Chess.
White.
1.	K on K. B. 6
2.	Q “ K 5
3.	C “ K C 5
4.	B “ Q. G. 5
5,	P “ Q 4
6.	P “ K Kt 7
Problem I. *
Our chess club sends us the following problem for the amusement of those who delight in the game:
Black.
1.	K on Q 2
2.	Q “ K 5
3.	C “ Q B sq
4.	C “ Q B 4
5.	Kt “ Q B 3
6.	Kt “ K. B sq
7.	B “ K sq
8	B “ Q 3
9.	P “ Q Kt 2
White to play and check-mate in three moves.
Read ! Read !—All lovers of historical truths, read ;—all thoughtful readers of the Scholastic Year, perseuse—the admirable articles entitled “ Galileo-Galilei, the Florentine Astronomer,” and “ Hypnotics” in the Catholic World for December ; also, the very liberal and learned article on “ Copernicus,” in the last number of the National Quarterly Review.
Prof. Lyons, that sterling friend of the universal genus humanum, will be most happy, we assure you, to afford you a perusal of the abovementioned valuable aiticles.	J. C. C.
^AINT ^ARY’S JUaDEMY.
Saint Marv’s, Dec. 29th, 1868.
Arrivals.
Dec. 24th, Miss Rosie Leoni, St. Jose, Illinois.
Honorable jMEentlon.
Graduating Class.—Misses Lizzie and-Laura Tong, A. Ewing, K. Cunnea, M. Twoomy.
First Senior.—Misses A. Carmody, A. Cunnea, N. Taber, E. Kirwin, M. Morrill, J. Dobson, M. Claffey, E. Ewing, M. Carraher, A. Darcy, M. Alexander, M. Chouteau, L. Lewis, L. McMan-aman.
Second Senior.—Misses R. Rettig, C. Foote, E. Lindsay, A. Bryson, L. Leoni, N. Leoni, A. Car
penter, A. Sherburn, L. Chouteau, K. Carpenter, W. Corby, T. Vanhorn, M. Ogles, E. Smith, K. Young.
Third Senior.—Misses M. Toberty, F. Butters, H.‘ Neil, A. Boyles, EL, Higgins, M. Kirwin, A. Fulwilder, A. Wiley, K. Joslin, M. Dillon.
First Preparatory.—Misses K. Robinson, A. Maste, S. O’Brien, J. Gittings, M. Foote, E. Cooney, E. Darst, M. Lassin, J. Lonergan, S. Coffee, L. Barnett, E. Henry.
Second Preparatory.—Misses C. Edwards, S. Boss, K. M. O’Toole, P. Smith, E. Simmes, M. Vanhorn, M. Minor.
Third Preparatorp.—Misses J. Denny, M. Clune, M. Coffey, A. Matthews, J. Davis, Emma Leiber.
Christmas at St. 31ary’s, 1868.
During the four days preceding Christmas a pleasant excitement pervaded all classes. Those who were expecting parents and friends were listeners with eager curiosity whenever the tinkling of sleigh-bells announced an arrival.
A number of young ladies devoted every moment of their recreations to the pleasurable task of completing various fancy articles intended as Christmas gifts for the dear ones at home. Others gave cheerful assistance in preparing the decorations for the Christmas Tree, while many were engaged in decorating (according to ancient usage) the chapels with evergreens.
Christmas Eve at length arrived; just such a Christmas Eve, too, as the most poetic Christian could desire; the night calm, the ground covered with unbroken snow, and bright stars twinkling overhead. All nature seemed in unison with the peace, purity, and sublimity of that sacred mystery, the Nativity of the “Incarnate Word.”
After the proper preparations for the religious observance of the feast, the pupils retired at an early hour to enjoy a refreshing sleep previous to the midnight Mass.
At 11 p. m’ the rouser’s bell was heard, and all arose with promptitude. The little Minims peeped into their tiny stockings to see if “Santa Claus” had been around; and, having satisfied their curiosity, started to the Chapel with the Seniors and Juniors, to pay their homage to the “Dear Infant Jesus.”
The Chapel, tastefully decorated, and brilliantly illuminated, presented a cheerful appearance.
136	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	
The Holy Sacrifice was> celebrated amid strains of touching sweetness—and. that time-honored hymn, the Adeste Fi teles again greeted the ear, joyfully telling of the glad mystery being celebrated throughout the Christian world. After Mass the Juniors and Minims gathered around the miniature representation of the crib at Bethlehem, and in their own simple way sang a hymn, of greeting to their “Infant Kang.” Then all retired to rest. On Christmas morning the catholic children assisted with the community at the second Mass, at which time all received Holy Communion. . At the . breakfast-table,, teachers and pupils met with cordial. Christmas greeting. Recreation was lively, and all seemed imbued with the joyous spirit of the day. After the late Mass, Mother Provincial was invited to receive the Christmas congratulations of the pupils. She greeted them affectionately, presenting to each a little souvenir in the name of the dear Infant Jesus. The interval before dinner was passed in opening Christmas boxes, examining and discussing the merits of gifts and edibles sent by kind parents and friends to cheer the hearts of their absent darlings. Dinner of turkey and mince-pie, (could there be a Christmas dinner without turkey and mincepie?) was served amid lively recreation, and then all enjoyed themselves according to their own taste and devotion, till supper time. After supper the guests and pupils assembled in the study hall to await the arrival of old “ Santa Claus,” whose annual visit is most eagerly expected by the juveniles. It seems that he had sent messengers ahead, for the Christmas tree was groaning under the weight of toys and confectionaries. At length the sound of tinkling sleigh-bells was heard, and immediately a live reindeer, full of metal and tricks, pranced into the hall. Old “Santa Claus” "was obliged to leap out of the sleigh to check the pacer and restrain, the pranks of his restive reindeer. Young America was in ecstacies over the fast animal—but the sedate part bf the audience trembled lest' the unmanageable creature should dislocate some of its members. The song and-gifte of old “Santa Claus” were highly appreciated. Two visitors from Iceland next appeared and entertained the audience with songs and recitations. Then followed the distribution of gifts [	from the Christmas- Tree and letters from the Crib at Bethlehem. Every one seemed satisfied with their share, and then commenced a pleasant. social conversation which lasted during the evening, the young ladies never being at fault as to what to say, still less on such-a merry, happy time as the present. At an.early hour all retired, refreshed with the innocent joy of a ,Christmas celebration at Saint Mary’s Academy.
	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. St. Joseph Co., Ind. npais Institution,, incorporated in 1844, en-JL larged in 1866, and fitted .up. with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the M. S. & K. 1R R, it is of easy access from all parts'of the United States.. TBBM8: Matriculation Fee		 $	5 00 .Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek included); Washing and Mending.of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and-'attendance in -sickness, per Session of five months	 150	00 French, German, Italian, Spanish, and. Hebrew, each			  10	00 Instrumental Music..	  12	50 Use of Piano.		      10	00 Use of Violin 		   2	00 Drawing.					       10	00 Uto of Philosophical and Chemical Ap- paratus			 5 00 Graduation Fee........'	   10	00 Students who spend their Summer vaca- tion at the College are charged, extra, 35 00 Payments to be made invariably, in advance. Class Books, Stationery, etc., furnished at current prices. The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September, the second on the 1st of February. For further particulars, address _ Rev. W. Corbt, C. S. C., President. SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY. Notre. Dame, Ind. St; Mart’s Academy, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty miles east . of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing tbwn of South end. ' The Scholastic'Year is divided into two sessions of five months each. The first session commencing the'first Monday of September, and ending the last day of January. At Christmas the regular classes are not interrupted, except the day before and the day.aftef. The second session commencing the first day of February, and ending the last Thursday of June. Mother M. Angela, Superior, St Mary’s Academy, . - ■ au 1-68 '	Notre Dame P. o., Indiana,
