Notre Dame Scholastic.
I>isce qxiasl semper vletUTUs; vlve quasi eras morlturns.
Volume XIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 25, 1880. Number 2.
Cui Bono?
From thy whole life take all the sweetest days
Of earthly joy; take all the lucent jewels
Of words far-brought by all the learned schools
Since man first thought, then take the brightest rays Which poets limned with their rose-flushed tools;
Take heart-wrung music chastened with strict rules
Of greatest masters; and in all thy ways
Find things that make men only pleasure’s fools.
Take these; beside them lay one soul-felt prayer;
Take these; beside them lay one little deed—
One simple act done for Christ’s Sacred Heart—
And all earth’s fairest toys, like graspless air
To it will be; this being, then what need
To strive for things that will, with time, depart?
Talk Between Studies.
Language as a channel for the communication of instruction and pleasure may be looked at in two aspects, as spoken or written. In spoken language, or speech, as it is called, there resides a marvellous power. Is it not surprising to think that a speech-gifted man, placed amongst a crowd of learned or ignorant, thoughtful or reckless hearers—all the elements of reason and passion tossed tumultuously together in their breasts—can knock at the heart and intellect of each; not merely knock but gain an entrance, wander through the bosoms of his hearers, thread the gloomy labyrinths of feeling, and from their lone places of concealment rouse the fiercest passions. Often in man’s history has this wonder been wrought. At one time it is Demosthenes, on the sunny hillside, waving the stormy democracy into a calm: reasoning with them, pointing out their difficulties, their dangers, their enemy, till at last, under the spell of his peerless eloquence, the whole Athenian populace started up as one man with one cry to be led immediately against Philip. Or again it is Cicero, clad in his consular robes, addressing the noblest republican senate the world has seen—a senate of gods,—showing them the hazards, the dangers, the destruction to which the commonweal was exposed, making their hearts throb as they were one with indignation and execration against Catiline. Or again it is Pitt, in the British House of Commons, whose fiery and persuasive tongue compelled ministers to dissolve Parliament for a few hours that it might recover from the spell cast over it by the enchanter.
And yet, great as may be the power in speech, it is in the second manifestation of language that the most marvellous faculty dwells—the written outshines and outlives the spoken word. The life^of eloquencejof oratory, per
ishes with the rhetorician and the speaker, darkens with their eye, stiffens with their hand, freezes with their tongue. The arms of eloquence are buried with the warriors. Where now is the glowing imagery, the splendid declamation of St. John? Gone,—vanished—like his own statue from the grassplots of Pope’s villa at Twickenham.
A spirit unquenchable inhabits that intellect to which the printing-press gives a body. Literature is the immortality of speech. For all the generations and for all the ages it embalms the departed princes of learning, and in the eternal pyramids of Fame it watches over and guards their repose. The sumptuous and splendid cities, the gorgeous palaces that since the beginning of time have dazzled and illuminated the world, are now beheld only in the pictures of the historian and poet. Homer rebuilds Troy for us; in the pages of Herodotus live the superb palace of Sals, its lighted hall of odors, Babylon, in fine, as it rose before the prophet’s gaze, “ the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees’ excellency”; with Thucydides we take part in the battles and sieges of the Peloponnesian war; with Livy, among the myriad warriors of the victorius Carthaginian, we wind in marshal array down the craggy Alps to devastate the fairest provinces of Italy and undermine the power of imperial Rome. The darts that pierced the Persian breastplates are mouldering in the dust at Thermopylae and Marathon, but the arrow of Pindar quivers at this moment, and will forever quiver with the life of his bow.
We needs must look with grateful eyes upon this wonderful preservative power of literature. When the long, dark night of Gothic ignorance and barbarism descended upon Europe, Homer and Sophocles, Virgil and Livy were almost forgotten and unknown; but far away, in lone corners of the earth, amid the silence and quiet of monastic retreats, the rites of learning continued to be solemnized: without, were barbarism, storm, violence, and blood; within, light, fragrance, music and rest. And when the night had passed away, from their sombre shelters came forth the children of genius to shine with undiminished lustre over the minds of men.
There is a fable in Spanish romance of a beautiful woman, contemplating herself in a glass, and of Venus by her power making the reflection permanent. This story was a new and pleasant reading in the history of literature. A book becomes a mirror, with the author’s face and features shining in it. Talent gives but an imperfect shadow; genius, a clear and well-defined image: beauty, the intellectual Venus,—whose children are the Shakespeares, the Dantes, the Homers—breathes the magic of her love and power, and fixes the face forever.
These mirrors of poesy, wisdom and eloquence, possess
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
an even stranger and more wondrous power. Illuminated by the sun of fame, they throw bright rays on the countenances of reverent and watchful admirers. The beholder carries away some of the dazzling lustre. Thus it happens that the light of genius never sets, but sheds itself on other faces in manifold hues of varying splendor. Homer lives again in the softened beauty of Virgil, and the learned imagery of Gray revivifies the glory of Spenser.
Nor is it pretended that literature escapes from all the casualties that befall speech, or the sister arts—sculpture and painting. It has its threne as well as its ptean. The splendid libraries of Rome and Alexandria have been consumed by fire, and the priceless treasures of Greece have perished in the sack of Constantinople. A mob shatters into dust the statue of Jupiter, whose limbs, almost instinct with life, whose lips seemed to move, but the fierceness of the Goth, the ignorance of the Crusader have alike failed in destroying or mutilating Helen or Antigone. • Zeuxis dies; Sophocles lives. And if we have lost the Jupiter of Phidias, Homer has preserved for us a Jupiter in gold.	.
Backbiting.
Of all the vices to which the human race is addicted the vice, or rather the crime, of backbiting is, I believe, the most prevalent. It pervades all classes of society. Even among those who have renounced the world and devoted their lives to the service of God, may be found many implicated in that base habit of backbiting. The evil occasioned by this vice is beyond all description; it is a demon that is as fatal to one’s reputation as poison is to life.
Noone escapes the backbiter: the religious, the noble, the rich, the poor, all,—aS indiscriminately, become a prey to the venom that falls from his tongue. Many a one has been goaded on to the commission of the most atrocious crimes by the malicious shafts aimed at him by persons of this class; many a young man has yielded to the wine-cup, his hopes forever blighted, and gone down to a drunkard’s grave, through the malice of the backbiter.
If there is one person in the social circle to be dreaded, it is the backbiter. We may guard against a robber or murderer, but against a backbiter or slanderer there is do protection. Like the'psalmist we can only cry out: “0 Lord, deliver my soul from wicked lips, and from a deceitful tongue.”
Everyone seems to have a special hatred for backbiting, and yet how very few there are entirely free from this great vice; in fact, there are none. We all often say things of our neighbor in his absence which we would not in his presence; even those we love are often made the subject of our ridicule. Is this charitable? Is this doing unto others as we would others should do to us ?
If persons addicted to this vice would for a moment imagine themselves in the position of those whose character they are about to vilify, they would no doubt find it a powerful remedy against this evil propensity; they would not be so likely to pride themselves upon their powers of criticising, and their skill in holding up to ridicule the defects they see in others. Everybody has defects; every stage of existence has its imperfections; every hour of life shows us something in our character that could be improved or perfected. Granting, then, that there is much room for griticising and censuring the actions of even the best of us,
it is certain that a habit of this kind once contracted will find plenty of food upon which to grow and flourish. It is all very fine to be sociable and witty, provided it be not at the cost of our neighbor’s good name or character. Why can we not possess an upright, generous mind, and speak as kindly of those absent as we do of them when present? If we cannot say a good word of a person, why say a bad one ? Is it not as easy to speak kindly of one, even though not deserving, as to speak ill of him? A kind word costs no more than a slanderous one; but oh, what a difference there is in their effects!
It is almost impossible to estimate the good produced by kind words, or the evil occasioned by slanderous ones. Kind words are the music of angels, the brightest and most beautiful flowers of earth, making a very paradise of the lowliest home in the world; they are jewels beyond price, and more efficient to heal the wounded heart and soothe the drooping spirit than all other blessings the world can give. Slanderous words are the fuel, the fire-bssnds of contention, the basest and most pernicious seeds of iniquity ; they are dangerous, poisonous weeds, and h'-ore to be dreaded than ravenous wolves. We should therefore weigh well those little messengers, so powerful for good or evil; trying them in the balance of kindness, truth, and charity before sending them forth on their mission; they may leave us lightly laden with smiles and mirth, and return to us loaded with hatred, self-reproach and shame. Let us. then, drop them carefully as we would seed for the harvest, letting none fall that would grow to foul weeds. If people were to foresee the mischief they frequently occasion, even by one word, they would, I am sure, more carefully study the virtue of silence and restraint. It is better to be considered dull and tedious than to indulge in talk that will sooner or later bring us shame and regret.
Backbiting is degrading to the listener as well as to the speaker, when he in any way approves or sanctions the evil spoken of his neighbor. Circumstances, duty, politeness, etc., frequently oblige us to listen to persons slandering their neighbors; but when we cannot prevent it, we can at least keep ourselves from being implicated, by showing in some way that we do not approve of such talk. It is an unpleasant position to be placed in, to be obliged to unite in slandering oiir neighbor, or to displease a friend, especially if it be one who is in any way our superior, or one to whom we are under obligations; but of two evils we should choose the less: it is better to offend man than God.
How much more pleasantly we can spend our leisure hours with a person whose conversation is upon literature, art or science; we can at least spend them more profitably than to listen to one giving the whole history of a neighbor, dragging into light things that through charity ought to sleep in oblivion. Can there be anything more disgusting than to hear a person constantly trumpetting the faults or family secrets of his neighbor. A person given to such a habit is ho better than a bird of prey; and they are little better who are continually trying to find out the failings or secrets of others, in order that they may have something to cast up to them as a reproach, and that they may lower them as much as possible in the eyes of others.
The habit of backbiting is one very easy acquired, but very hard to shake off. Many parents are to blame for. their children’s growing up backbiters and slanderers; teachers’ too, are often to blame; for by praising one pupil
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	19
more than another, they cause jealous feelings to spring up in the hearts of the pupils; and the parents, instead of correcting, encourage them, by sympathizing with them.
Woman’s tongue is generally deeper steeped in this vice than man’s; yet they, the lords of creation, are not free from its taint.
There would be one grand reformation in the social world if this vice were rooted out and thrown aside. Then the blossoms of harmony, love and truth, which are now choked up by the foul weeds—backbiting and slander— would bloom and flourish. But this is a blessing we cannot expect in this life. To live in the world, or even in a monastery, and not experience more or less of this evil, would be a foretaste of heaven not granted to mortals.
There seems to be something very deceiving in backbiting, more so than in any other vice; I believe it is the devil’s favorite artifice for ensnaring pious people. There are hundreds, yes thousands of people, especially old women, who are scrupulously just in everything else that concerns their conscience, but in this they seem to let their propensity have a loose rein; they would no more think of cheating their neighbor out of a cent than they would of cutting their head off; but they have not the slightest scruple in robbing him of his good name. Now this is simply ridiculous. It cannot be that they do thia with a clear knowledge of its wickedness; they must be deluded some way or other, and I believe it is in their not properly understanding the Eighth Commandment. If they were called upon to give testimony under oath, they would undoubtedly know how to do so to the very letter; but if they take the pains to read the explanation of the Eighth Commandment, as given in Father Gleason’s Catechism of Dogmatic and Moral Theology, they will find that to observe the Eighth Commandment there is more than that required.	A. L. M.
A Week’s Visit to Nebraska.
Although the short space of a week does not afford time enough to see much of the beautiful country in Nebraska, perhaps a brief account of a visit to the three principal cities of the State would not be uninteresting. Leaving B----at six o’clock in the close of the evening of a most delightful day in April, after getting fairly out of the city, I had time to view a most lovely sunset. When the sun had entirely sunk beneath the horizon, and everything was wrapt in darkness, I retired to rest in one of those elegant Pullman sleeping-coaches, with which the Missouri River R.R. is equipped. In the morning I awoke, between the little towns of Coming and Red Oak, in time to get a good view of the Mishuabotomy valley, which is celebrated for being the most beautiful country in Iowa. Arriving at Villisca, one of those superb Pullmann Palace dining-cars was taken on, and I had the pleasure of partaking of an elegant breakfast. Instead of going by Council Bluffs and crossing over to Omaha, I proceeded directly to Plattsmouth. As we were approaching the Missouri River on the east side, I kept enquiring where the river was; for although we had been running within a hundred yards of it for a mile, I could not see it: the sandbars are so immense that, unless you get a full and unobstructed view, they will almost entirely hide the waters; Still tfie river was partly navigable at that point. I no
ticed some days after a very large steamer go down stream, although it was eight or nine hours in passing Platts-mouth. We then took a ferry-boat about two miles above the city, and it was really amusing to see the way in which, it ran across the river: first down stream about half a mile, then a Itttle up stream, and then down in a zig-zag manner, until we reached the Nebraska shore. I noticed the sands-bars were completely covered with vast flocks of wild geese, which flew so close to the boat that one could easily have killed them with a shot-gun. The wind during this time was blowing almost a gale, and the sand rose up from the streets of Plattsmouth in clouds, so that you could not see ten feet before you. Here I met my friend Mr. H-----, who had gone out a few days before me. We proceeded to the Brooks House, where, after getting washed up, we had a very nice dinner. The day being Sunday, we of course did nothing, except enjoy a very pleasant walk through P-----towards evening, after the wind had lulled. Looking at the town from the river, you would judge it to be one of four or five hundred inhabitants; whereas it contains about 2,000. It is built upon and between three hills, so that you can in no one place get a view of the whole town.
The next morning at ten o’clock we took the cars for Lincoln. On leaving Pa., we follow the banks of the Missouri, with the river on our right, and on our left an immense rocky bluff, bedecked with the most magnificent ferns; and thus we run for several miles, until suddenly we turn to the left and behold the beautiful river Platte, which is truly one of the most lovely streams I ever saw. The waters are as smooth and clear as crystal, and its banks are covered with beautiful plants. The country on both sides of the river, called the Platte Valley, is considered to be among the best farming districts in the West. At length we leave the river and turn south, passing several small towns to which no importance is attached, and finally reach Lincoln, the capitol of the State. Looking around us, we see one of the most thriving and prosperous -little towns in the West. Scarcely can we realize that here, a town of 2,500 inhabitants, with three large hotels, two banks, salt works, and other business in proportion; a town containing the four handsomest buildings in the State, one of which is considered the finest west of Chicago and north of St. Louis, four years ago consisted of a few mud huts built upon the wild prairies; nevertheless it is true, and is but a good example of what lies within the power of energetic and industrious man to accomplish. The four principal buildings of which I have spoken are as follows: the State Capitol, the Insane Asylum, the State University, and the Tichenor Hotel, at which we stopped. After dinner at the hotel, we learned that the Senate was in session, and furthermore that they were sitting as an impeachment court, trying the case of Geo. Butler, impeached for misappropriating state funds, and also that that afternoon’s proceedings would probably decide the case, so we concluded that we might spend the afternoon very pleasantly by a visit to the trial. Arriving at the Senate, we fpund that a petition had been filed for a continuance of sixty days, and after some exciting discussion between the lawyers and managing members, the Senate as a jury retired for about half an hour. Meanwhile we appropriated this time to examining the capitol. It is a very handsome stone building, constructed on something of the same plan as the college. The jury returned by the time we had finished examining the building, grant-
2Q
THE NO.TEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing the governor a continuance of sixty days to procure more evidence. We returned to the hotel, where, by the way, most of the members of the legislature stopped, and of course after supper there was a great deal of excitement among them; it was interesting to listen to their discussions.
The next morning we visited the insane asylum, which is built of the same material as the capitol, though much larger. It has since been destroyed by fire. We were conducted through the building by the superintendent, to whom we had letters of introduction; and, contrary to the usual custom, he showed us some patients in the worst stages of insanity, and indeed it was pitiful to see the sufferings of those poor creatures: I at least felt easier when I was out of the room. In the afternoon we visited the State University, which is indeed a very handsome building. This is built of a purplish sandstone, which is peculiar to that part of the country, and makes a splendid external appearance. In the interior of the building I noticed that everything was of the highest finish. The next day we visited the salt works. The salt here is made from a lake, the borders of which are covered with salt in the rough state, and also from the salt well that is there. The works were not in operation at that time, and we found no one there but a boy employed to herd cattle; for in Nebraska, every one owning cattle is obliged to keep some one to watch, as there are very few fences; indeed, I saw not one outside of the city. He showed us and explained where the salt was boiled, and the vats in which it was evaporated, as best he could; I sincerely regretted that we did not find some one there who could give us a clearer explanation of the way in which the salt is made. Before leaving L------, I must not forget to mention the Tichenor, which constitutes one of the four handsome buildings I spoke of. It is built of the same rock as the State University, with a mansard roof. Everything inside was finished up and furnished in splendid style.
After leaving Lincoln, I proceeded to Omaha; but to relate the particulars of my visit there would be uninteresting. I remained there but a day, which afforded sufficient time to see all that I cared to see of Omaha. It can, in one sense, be rightly called Chicago on a small scale. It is the home and starting point of all the burglars, pickpockets and confidence men west of Chicago; and furnishes every city in that part of the country, of its own size, and even larger, with representatives of every branch of wickedness that exists. Still Omaha is a place doing a considerably large business, and being the starting point of the U. P. R. R. is a place through which there is a great deal of travel. That eve I took leave of H----, and arrived in B— next morning, exceedingly well pleased with my trip to Nebraska.	M. M. F.
—“ Sambo, did you ever see the Catskill Mountains ? ” “No, sah; but I’ve seed ’em kill mice.”
—The regents of California University require freshmen to pledge themselves not to join any secret societies. We think such'pledges wrong: secret societies should be allowed to die a natural death. They are the legacies of sectarean colleges, the atmosphere of public universities is not congenial to them.—University Press. We think the facts of the case will not bear out the opinion of our contemporary.
The Mind.
The mind, according to Webster, is the intellectual or rational faculty of man, and is sometimes used indifferently for the understanding, or the power that conceives, judges or reasons. The word is also used in reference to -the soul, that noblest part, which bears the image of the Creator.
As there are no two persons exactly alike, so there can be no two minds that resemble each other in every particular. We can scarcely look around us without remarking the different kinds of minds and their various workings.
It is often said, and with truth, that the face is “ the index of the soul ” ; it seems to me that it might be said with equal 'truthfulness that the mind leaves its. impressions on the face. The frivolous mind is constantly changing its opinions, and like a butterfly flutters from one object to another. This change is not apt to be found in a person of a serious demeanor. In the uncultivated and tender mind of the child, the latent powers of a great and good soul lie sleeping. Slowly they unfold, increase in beauty day by day, like the tiny buds of the myriad flowers that deck the plain; each different in color, form and perfume, as the beauteous blossoms opening in the golden sunshine of a midsummer’s day. But as flowers when deprived of light and sunshine are often pale and imperfect, so the mind, reared without the sunshine of religion and virtue, is often but a pale deformity of what God wills it to be.
Deep-minded persons verify the proverb, “ Still waters run deep ” ; for we never see them very talkative, or expressing their opinions in a noisy declamatory manner, but like the deep waters of a large river, they pursue their course silently, and seldom fail to accomplish their object.
There are minds influenced by every breath of the world’s opinion, just as the fragile reed is shaken by the wind; hence it is needless to say that the works they achieve are generally not stupendous. There are minds grand and majestic whose lofty conceptions have given to the world all those wonders which outlive all time, and after the lapse of ages remain as fresh as if the work of yesterday. Among such may be mentioned St. Thomas Aquinas, who was in his youth called by his fellow students “The dull ox of Sicily.” His masters also i thought him very stupid, until one of them questioned	|
him on some difficult points, which he readily answered,	j
and on which occasion his master said of him: “We	;
call Brother Thomas a great dumb ox, but the world will	|
one day re-echo to the bellowing of his doctrine.” St.	I
Thomas was a most wonderful man; he composed many	I
works, the greatest of which is his “Summa” of theology.
He also corrected the works of Aristotle, and drew from I them much information. The world re-echoes at this day the doctrines of this great Saint; and he who was called dull in his youth is now one of the Doctors of the Church.
We may then look upon the mind as the noblest gift of God, and our every effort should be put forth to render it puye and upright, a faithful copy of the Divine original.
M. A. H.
■>i
THE N0T3RE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Dr. Lingard.
Dr. John Lingard, England’s greatest historian, was horn at Winchester on the 5th of February, 1771. At an early age, he gave so many evidences of the possession of talent of a high order that Bishop Challorier resolved to bear the expenses of his education. After the good Bishop’s death, his design was carried out by his successor, who sent young Lingard to Doway College in 1781. Here his great mind readily mastered every branch of science that presented itself; and he entered the school of theology in 1701. The disturbed condition of France at this period, and the declaration of war against England, forced him to return to his native country. Several companions escaped with him; and, after being driven about for some time, the party finally settled at Crook Hall, which was transformed into a seminary, with Rev. Thos. Eyre as President. Here Lingard completed his theology; and in May, 1795, was ordained priest. Shortly after this event, he was appointed Vice-President of the seminary, and for many years filled the chair of Natural and Moral Philosophy.
Lingard’s first work was “ The Antiquities of the Anglo-Saxon Church.” Its publication was brought about in this way: The professors and students of Crook Hall were accustomed to assemble and read original essays, and Lingard, who had made exhaustive studies on the antiquities of his Church, embodied his thoughts in a series of detached papers, which, at the solicitations of his friends, were published in 1806. They were quite popular, and ran through several editions.
In 1811, Lingard withdrew to the secluded mission of Hornby, where he entered upon the great work on which rests his fame, viz.: “ The History of England from the Invasion of the Romans to the Accession of William and Mary.” No research, however difficult or tedious, could exhaust his patience. “ Day after day,” says a friend of his, “he might be seen in the British Museum or the archives of state, examining and making such extracts as he deemed necessary for his history.
In 1817, he was commissioned to go to Rome to negotiate important affairs. Here he was afforded free access to all the libraries, but was unable to find much of the information for which he sought, on account of the confusion into which it had been thrown by the French revolution. On his return home, he prepared to publish part of his history; and in 1820 were given to the public the first three volumes of that great work, extending to the reign of Henry the VII. At home and abroad it was hailed with approbation and delight by scholars of every class; and when the 4th vol., which was published the year following, reached Rome, Pius VIII conferred on him the titles of Doctor of Divinity and of Doctor of Canon and Civil Law. On his visit to that city in 1825, Leo XII tried to induce him to stay, and gave him the medal generally given to Cardinals and Princes. With the completion of his history, his literary reputation became firmly established. Letters from scholars all over the world poured in upon him to such an extent that to answer these alone was no inconsiderable task.
In the spring of 1851, Dr. Lingard was taken ill. He had for some years been laboring under various infirmities, which had gradually grown worse, when at length on Easter Monday, 1851, he was obliged to take to his bed, where he lingered until the 17th of July. He died with calmness and resignation in the eighty-first year of his age.
As to his merits as an historian, little need be said, as his reputation is universally established. For very nearly half a century his work has withstood the ordeal of hostile criticism, but it remains with not a page defaced nor a line erased. The ease and classic purity of style which characterize it, have ever been admitted; but in all the higher and more essential qualifications of history, in full and impartial details, in clear and methodical arrangement, in deep and patient research, it stands without a rival. Hume may pleasg, Macauley fascinate; but if we seek to gain a correct view of those events which lie far back in the vista of English History; if we desire to be fully instructed in the rise, progress and development of those institutions which form the bases of the British Empire, or seek to gather reliable information in regard to the religious institutions of that country, we must turn to the truthful pages of Lingard.
An Allegory.
While wandering o’er the land of mortals, I came upon a small tract richly covered with verdure, giving’ evidence of a fertile soil. As I stopped to gaze upon its beauty and freshness, I noticed how tenderly the owner fostered his little possessions; here smoothing down a disproportioned ridge, there plucking up or destroying a noxious weed. I addressed the owner, and was soon interested in his recital of its brief history.
“I call my place Infancy,” said he; “as yet its area is small, and its productions limited. At first it was a tangled thicket, requiring two years of cutting and delving to make a tolerable clearing. Being, therefore, as it were, newly cleared, it is yet difficult to manage: as sometimes, after most persevering efforts in toiling over its surface, I find spots of rank and noxious weeds, which heretofore escaped my unwearied attention. But now it hardly every fails to give a grateful return for the seed which I have so carefully sown. But, as infancy advances towards youth, it becomes more tractable, and in proportion to its trac-. tability, the greater is the fertility, and the more valuable are the productions: so that .in a few years I may reasonably expect those products to be doubled in value. But you, my friend, who I know have not the experience, can not have any conception of the unceasing vigilance that is required to promote a healthy condition of the crops, and prevent their being choked by chickweed and cockle. I labor, and the successful results of my efforts are my desired reward, forming the cup of sweetness from which 1 imbibe refreshment. Here, in the society of the Great Harvester, I enjoy life in giving shape to, and trimming my-farm-hold into usefullness. Its promising nature delights me; it is the centre round which my thoughts and plans are continually revolving. Gratification arises at each new accession, as'its prosterity increases, never retrogrades.”
The master paused, and I said: “ My time is engaged abroad; I must bid you good day. I am a wanderer on the earth; and should I ever pass this way again, it will be my pleasure to stay here for some time.” I turned, awoke, and behold it was but a dream.
Again, I fell asleep, and a vision of fleeting years was before me. Again I seemed to stand before what I knew by a few ineffaceable characters, to be the Infancy of my former dream. But what changes had well nigh shrouded it in obscurity. Infancy had enlarged its fields; itspos-

22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sessions were more magnificent; the revolution was complete, save the domicile of the old homestead. I saw again the master, in whose beard and locks the frosts of sixteen winters had interwoven silver threads. I approached, and greeted him with a kindly greeting: “Friend, how has it fared with you and yours these many years ? ”
The master gently raised his head, and quietly surveyed me. Satisfying himself, a smile flitted over his countenance, and he said: “Your seeming solicitude astonishes me; for this is a selfish world, and its njost thoroughly accepted maxim is, ‘Each one for himself.’ He whom you now -W’
see can no longer be called Infancy; yet I love to think of it, as it was memory transports me to the wasted domains of the past; to the time when contentment filled my soul, and anxiety for the future was unknown. Then all was under my own scrutiny, and I was not alarmed that it would grow beyond my control; but, as the number of my years have increased, so have my fears. The outstretching fields, which are in their prime and youth, are more intermixed with poisonous weeds than they were in their confined space of infancy. Then they were carefully guarded against all noxious plants and briars, being well cultivated, as long as I could personally oversee them. But my possessions (which I now call youth) grow so rapidly that I am no longer able to keep my eyes upon the whole; still, when I discover weeds or brambles, I burn them, and, as far as possible, purge the land of their baneful influence. Some, however, escape, though I grub and strike at their roots, and continue their pernicious effects. So difficult is it, my friend, to get rid of these miserable excrescences that, though I employ extra help to assist in their eradication, yet the soil rapidly bears another crop of noxious weeds. It appears to be natural for the soil to wage continual war against my efforts. Already I feel the weight of my burden; and, as I advance in years, the labor becomes still more onerous.”	'
“But,” I ventured to interpose, “could you not obtain one to superintend the work as you would do yourself?”
He shook his head, and gravely smiled, saying: “Your youth excuses the levity of your enquiry. No: my possessions are best under me; for, as each one of a brood of chickens finds itself safest under the shelter of its own mother’s wings, so my possessions are best directed under my own guidance. I have partially tried what you ask, but I never placed the reins of absolute authority in any other hands than my own. In my experience, I have noticed the gradual decrease of power, which arises from the delegation of one’s own special prerogative.”
“But,” reasoned I, “you cannot expect to live always. Already the stream of your life has nearly ran its course, and will soon be received in the engulfing waters of Death. You cannot fail to see before you its threatening waters.”
“Your words,” answered he, “are true; they bring to mind the thought of my future existence. The thought which gives me most uneasiness is the uncertainty whether after my death that which I leave behind me will continue to remain as it now is. This is the fear, this the thought which renders me most uneasy.”
I spoke soothingly, and reminded him that an eternal crown would be the reward of faithful labor. He answered not; his reflections were evidently of a melancholy kind, and I rose to depart.
“Stay, my friend,” cried the master, tremblingly; “I have resolved to confide in you. I feel that the vigor of my
former years is rapidly declining: if in your wanderings you happen to pass this way, and it I have gone to the bosom of my mother earth, you will act as my representative. Should youth heedlessly squander the riches which I have with so much labor acquired, administer, in my stead, the needed admonition, as it may be of incalculable advantage in destroying the noxious growth of more mature years. Promise me this, and you will bestow a favor on me, for which you may hope to reap, in due time, an ample reward.”
I turned to depart, and moving away, I heard sobs behind me, which came from the decrepit master; these sobs greatly affected me, and I also began to weep. I awoke, and the vision passed sway.
After some time I again slept, and a new dream passed before my mindl I saw, riding in a dull-colored chariotTime, with his hair all silvered over with age, driving be, fore him seven years. After the cortege had passed, I seemed to stand before the scenes of my former dreams; the possessions of my old friend appeared to have acquired an immense extent, but were badly laid out, and overgrown with rank and noxious weeds. This sight convinced me that the master hand, that had so carefully cultivated the estate, lay cold in death; yet it was evident from some half-cultivated spots of the immense tract, that some attempt at cultivation was still made, in order to keep up former appearances. But it was evident that the labor was very irksome; for, some parts of the fields being weedless, gave evidence of better cultivation than other portions of the immense tract, which were completely overgrown with a poisonous vegetation that destroyed every plant in its neighborhood. Farther on, I noticed that what had at one time been luxuriant meadows were now almost obliterated by stagnant pools, whose surface was covered with filthy slime. The crystal stream that once fertilized these meadows was now stagnant in its bed, save where here and there a sluggish eddy, formed by an accumulation of brambles, carried its green and filthy burden along, rendering the atmosphere poisonous from the decay of its filthy effluvium. How impossible, I said to myself, to bring order out of this chaos formed by such neglect I moved onward, meditating on the sad effects brought on by negligence and wasted opportunities.
Farther on, I passed over some lands which had been reclaimed, and were now carefully cultivated, and which to me seemed a most favored spot; no irregularity, no poisonous weed marred its beauty. Going forward, I arrived at the foot of a small table-land overlooking the whole farm. I ascended, and carefully surveyed the scene presented to my view. I saw a sight sufficient to bring both joy and sorrow to the owner’s heart. The whole was a varied panorama of good and evil, which caused me to meditate deeply. For a time I stood in deep thought, during which the promise I had made to the late owner came back to my mind with great distinctness. Having found the new owner, I related to him the prosperous condition in which I once beheld his now declining property, and urged him to make more strenuous exertions. My remonstrance was badly received. The idea that he knew what was best for his own advantage, was as deeply rooted in him as in others whom I had met. I had now, though in vain, performed a promised duty, and saying farewell, departed. I awoke, and it was morning; the sun appeared resplendently bright, and all nature was rejoicing at its appearance. I aroused my dreaming en
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
23
ergies, and arose. My dream was so strongly outlined be-before me, that I began to moralize. Thus is it in the diversified occupations of the human mind: the good and evil thoughts lie near together; they spring up and are nourished in the same soil; the bad often overcomes the good, and the whole is more or less perverted. Sometimes the good predominates, and its blessed influence overrules all our actions. In the lives of every human being the sweet and the bitter are commingled. Death will ultimately gather in the good and the wicked, both of whom will be weighed in the scales of justice, and the approval or condemnation of each one will be pronounced by an Omnipotent Judge.
J. Norfleet.
■ Ctt »--------
Art, Music and Literature.
—Liszt has gone to Rome.
—Herr Joseffy is reported to be quite sick at his Connecticut summer residence,—the result of the recent severe hot weather.
—Max Goldstein, who is well known in New York musical circles, is engaged as editor-in-chief of a new Musik Zeitung to be brought out in Berlin in October.
—It is reported from London that Clara Louise Kellogg and Carl Rosa are seriously discussion the feasibility of a grand English opera combination for an American tour, to begin October, 1881.
—Sir Jules Benedict is writing, and has by this time nearly completed, the “Life of Carl Maria V. Weber,” whose favorite pupil he was; and he has added a most valuable condensed catalogue of Weber’s works.
—Miss Rose Hersee will not be a member of the Stra-kosch and Hess Company-. Mr. Strakosch declined to deposit a guarantee for her salary unless she would deposit a guarantee to fulfil all the terms of the contract on her side.
—The spoliator of the Schumann monument has been discovered. He is a young man of Erfurth, studying at the Leipsic University. He excuses himself on the grounds that, being an intense admirer of the maestro’s works, he wished to have his image constantly before him.
—The health of Mr. Francis Parkman has been so much impaired by the return of his old malady, that he has been obliged to lay down his pen and go to Europe. This will not delay the re-issue of his “French Conquests in North America,” but it will postpone indefinitely the publication of his final volume on Montcalm.
—Among the new music just issued, or about to be issued, are the following: A new opera by J. Strauss, words by Genee, in three acts, entitled “Das Spitzentuch; ” “ Nisida,” in three acts, music by Genee, words by F. Zell; “ Donna Juanita,’’ music by Suppe, words by Genee, and “Der Portraitdame,” music by Wolf. Schuberth & Co., of Union Square, have just published Verdi’s latest composition—an Ave Maria for soprano, with Latin and Italian words.
—A report has been started by a weekly paper that Theodore Thomas has returned from his European trip in extreme ill health, and that he will be obliged to withdraw from professional activity for at least two months. This is not true; and it is equally untrue that, as the same paper informs its readers, Thomas was coldly received by Wagner, who, “ in almost a literal sense, shut his door in the face of his visitor.” Wagner has been spending the summer at a villa near Naples, and Thomas has not been within 700 or 800 miles of him.—New York Tribune.
—John Habberton’s new play, “ Deacon Crankett,” has has been produced at Albaugh’s Theatre, Baltimore, by the Mead and McGinly combination. The play is said to be clean and healthful. The plot turns on the pursuit of the heiress by a scoundrel who seeks her fortune, and the true love of a sailor who leaves her in pique with the notion that she prefers his rival. During the lover’s absence the chief action takes place at the New England home of Deacon Crankett, who is the means of exposing the mercenary city fellow, and bringing things around to a happy issue.
Exchanges.
—We have also received the Illustrated Catholic American, Niagara Index, Catholic World, Cornell Sun, and several others, which we cannot notice in this issue.
—We have received the Musical Record for the week ending Sept. 18lh. As usual, it is replete with everything in which a music-loving people can take interest It is always a most welcome visitor.
—It is with pleasure that we hail the appearance of McQee's Illustrated Weekly, which was compelled to suspend publication about tour montlis^ago, owing to the failure of subscribers to pay their subscription fees. The amount due Mr. McGee was §13,000; he has, we believe, collected a portion of this amount, and will therefore continue to publish his excellent Illustrated Weekly once more.
Books and Periodicals.
—“ Song Bells ” is the title of a beautiful song book, compiled by L. O. Emerson, the mere mention of whose name is a sufficient guarantee that the work is a good one. It is replete with choice songs, and will prove an invaluable acquisition to our public schools.
—We have received from D. & J.Sadlier, of New York, the ''Landis Corona"—a beautiful name, by the way—a hymn book, containing about 150 Catholic hymns. These hymns have been carefully selected and beautifully arranged. We recommend it to all Catholic schools and colleges.
—We have received from Notre Dame, Indiana, a copy of the magnificent discourse pronounced by the Honorable Judge Dunue in that University, on the day of the conferring of degrees and distribution of premiums. It is a production which should be in every institution of learning, as a brief, elegant and pratical compendium of the principles which should regulate the life and aspirations of youth, when, having finished their studies, they have to bid adieu to the most pleasant and poetical period of their existence, to enter upon the difficult Realities of Life,—the title of the discourse. We are sincerely grateful to the University for the copy sent us.—Rensta Catolica (Las Vegas, New Mexico.)
CoHege Gossip.
—Another Sun now shineth at Cornell University.
—Because nature furnishes her cat a nip, a man need not expect others to furnish him with his.
—Over nine-tenths of all the colleges and universities in the States are under Christian supervision.
—It is said that Dr. Tanner has often fasted from thirty to forty days. No doubt, provided he has depended upon his profession for a living. Ordinary doctors and lawyers, with country editors thrown in, are veterans in fasting.—Mx.
—Miss Annie (who is showing her aunt Jerusha, from Skowhegan, the beauties of art)—“This is Titan’s Venus. Isn’t she beautiful? See the grace of her pose,” etc. Aunt Jerusha—“Wall, naow, she is a pretty fair-lookin’ gal; but its dreadful unhealthy to sleep with your arm under your head.”
—When you see a man sit down in a barber’s chair, pin the newspaper around his neck, and begin to read the towel, you may put him down as absent-minded.—College Message. Yes: and when the barber begins to apply the lather to your face with a paint-brush, trys to shave you with a jack-knife, oils your hair with bay rum, and powders your face with cigar ashes, you begin to think that he's a little absent-minded,—a little under the influence of the spirits—of alcohol.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, September 35, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Foubtebnth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the means of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1*50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
—We trust that this year the musical talent of Notre Dame will be displayed to its greatest advantage. Heretofore the University has enjoyed no unenviable popularity on account of the proficiency displayed by her students in this most important branch. A Corps of skilful and capable instructors have been employed by the University for imparting the necessary instruction in this branch. Vocal and instrumental music has always received, and will still receive, the greatest possible attention. This year, no doubt, will add another gem to Notre Dame’s already brilliant musical crown. And why not? She has students of already acknowledged musical talent, and teachers capable and willing to draw out this talent and expand it to its utmost. It is chiefly for this purpose that the Band, Orchestra, Choir, Glee Clubs, monthly musical soirees, and other associations of a like nature have been established. Congregational singing during divine service has been in vogue here for several years, and for a similar object. Soon, all the musical organizations will be in full blast. We hope that all our students will connect themselves with one or more of the above-mentioned organizations. They will benefit them in many respects, some of which we will mention when we again have occasion speak on the subject.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber falls to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice Immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—We hope that during the scholastic year, so auspiciously begun, everything will pass off in a manner which may prove satisfactory, not only to the students and Faculty of the University, but also to the parents of all within our College walls, many of whom, no doubt, have made great sacrifices to give their children that which will stand by them when everything else fails—an education. We trust that our students will understand, and by their conduct show their appreciation of the great benefits that have been bestowed upon them by their parents in sending them to an institution where they can, by persevering efforts, succeed in obtaining an education that will enable them to successfully and creditably fill those positions in society to which an all-wise Providence may call them. Great attention should be paid to that sterling advice given to the students on Friday morning by Senator Voorhees, of Indiana. In the course of his remarks, he said that he had no doubt but that many of the young gentlemen before him would one day be called upon to occupy some of the most prominent positions in Hfe. To do this, however, he inculcated the necessity of using to the best advantage every moment of their time while at college. No man can acquire fame or shine conspicuously before his fellow-men without an education; and this education must, if ever, be acquired during the students stay at college. We trust that our students will never forget the advice given them on that occasion by one of the most eloquent and distinguished men in the United States Senate.
—The prediction made in the vacation number of the Scholastic that the editorial “ mantle ” would fall upon our shoulders, has—alas, for us!—been verified. Knowing, as we do, from observation, the unenviable position which the editor-in-chief of a college paper must occupy, it is with reluctance that we take our seat, and only wish that the “mantle” had fallen on shoulders more capable of sustaining it than ours. But now that the die is cast, we shall endeavor to do our utmost to give our readers matter both solid and recreative; for by doing this we shall be able to forever tranquilize the murmurs of those who would prefer seeing nothing but solid reading matter in those pages, and of others who would prefer that of a more humerous and recreative nature. The Literary, Editorial, Exchange, Local, and other departments of the Scholastic, will be conducted with a view to the attainment of this end. A word more, and our “bow” to the college world will have been made. It shall be our most earnest endeavor to keep the most amicable relations with all engaged in college journalism. In saying this, we do not wish to be misunderstood, or wrongly interpreted. While doing our utmost to be on friendly terms with all, we shall not, on that account, refrain from giving a fearless and candid expression of opinion upon any point which may from time to time present itself to the notice of the college world. This we shall ever be ready to do. At the same time, we do not wish to be considered charlitanical, —nothing can be more foreign to our intention.
In conclusion, we would..say that these columns are open to all; and contributions to the same will bo thankfully received. To those who may find fault at the literary character, or otherwise, of any article appearing, in them, we simply say: Give us a better one for the succeeding issue, and receive our thanks.
—Men think of happiness as something without rather than within; hence they seek for it in revel, society, and occupation rather than within themselves.
ME NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
25
—If our Catholic youth would only reflect for a few moments on the sanctity of our churches, in which our Divine Lord is really present on the altar, and try to exercise their faith in His holy presence in the Blessed Eucharist, they would most assuredly permit no distracting thought to occupy their minds; neither would they he guilty of any unbecoming levity hi the presence of their Lord, who has said: “ My delights are to be with the children of men.” It is deeply to be regretted that quite a large number of our Catholic youth are, perhaps, unconsciously guilty of grave faults in Church, particularly during the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass. They seem to forget that this Sacrifice is the same as that of Mount Calvary, offered in a mystic manner, without the shedding of blood; and thus they frequently scandalize our non-Catholic brethren, who sometimes assist at our august ceremonies, and thus by their actions appear to deny their faith; or with the scribes and pharisees cry out: “ We will not have this Man to reign over us: away with Him! crucify Him!” We read that the Buddists when entering their temples, prostrate themselves in the most lowly adoration, and would permit themselves to be severely scourged, nay, even killed, before they would move a limb until their blind adoration was completed; and that over, they would retire with the greatest modesty and recollection. The Mahom-edans also are said to be most careful to act reverently in their mosques. Let, then, our youth, before entering the church to assist at the august Sacrifice of the Mass, dismiss all distracting thoughts from their minds and most carefully guard their senses, keeping their attention fixed on the priest and uniting their intention with his, and thus they will not only give edification but will draw down
. upon themselves many graces and blessings.
—This scholastic year, now that everything about the college is completed and in first-class running order, may be considered as the first one in the era of the new Notre Dame. The old Notre Dame, grand though it was,—the remembrance of which can never be eliminated from the minds of all, who were in any way connected with it— would hardly be called grand, when placed in juxtaposition with that magnificent and imposing structure—the new University. The superiority of the new building over the old is in every respect made evident by taking a walk through the beautiful corridors and spacious rooms devoted to every college necessity; all modern college improvements in ventilation, light, heat, etc., have been adopted; in a word, everything calculated to promote the intellectual, moral, and physical welfare of the student is employed. Everything thus far seems to portend the success which the new N otre Dame will no doubt meet with in this, the first year of her existence. The number of students up to date is far in excess of the number at the same period last year; and anyone who will take the trouble to consult last year’s catalogue, will see that this is saying a great deal, as regards the present number of students. ‘Tis true that we have met with a great loss in the absence of Profs. Ivers and Stace, who were obliged to leave; the one on account of the imperative necessity of a change of climate for his family, and the other for a very lucrative and honorable position in the political sphere of action. But though both students and faculty regret their departure from our college halls, still we are again made happy
in the acquisition of others, both competent and, in every respect, qualified to occupy the vacated chair. Our faculty was never stronger, nor more devoted to the interests of our students than they are to-day. It is a great pleasure for us to make this announcement to all, who are, and have been in any way connected with Notre Dame. We predict that the scholastic year of ’80 and 81, now so auspiciously begun, will be one of the most memorable and prosperous in the history of Notre Dame.
—It is but reasonable to suppose that, did boys, or even full-grown persons, only know the amount of injury done to fruit trees at this time of year, either by climbing amongst the limbs, or throwing stones or other missiles against the branches, they would not be guilty of such acts unless indeed they would wish to show an indifference to the commission of a crime, for which vandalism is but a very polite name.
It is awell-known fact of common occurrence that at this season of the year, when the branches of trees are as soft and sappy as corn-stalks, a severe hail-storm often destroys hundreds of valuable orchards beyond recovery, from the bruises received by the tender young growth. What then may be expected as the effect of rocks, or other things, being thrown against them with full force of arm? Even this is not the worst that a tree suffers by such abuse. It may not be generally known that the apple is not an annual product; “it is biennial.” Unlike the smaller fruit which buds, blooms and bears the same season, the fruitbuds, or fruit-spurs as they are promologically termed, of apples are always set the fall preceding the ensuing crop: so that the bearing branches of this year had their fruitbuds set since last fall, and upon last year’s new growth of wood, and on the bearing branches of nextyear, the fruitbuds are germinating this season, and upon this year’s young wood. Now, as a great many varieties of apple trees bear a large proportion of their crop on small shoots, or fruit spurs, growing down along the sides of the limbs in the inside of the head, almost to the trunk, it may easily be imagined the amount of detriment done in the act of crawling through or treading on those tender shoots; so that in the effort of obtaining a few unripe apples on the top branches there are often young fruit-buds enough destroyed to bear a bushel of fine fruit the ensuing season. Hence it is that a full crop can never be had of trees so misused.
It is a fact, that of the cords upon cords of damaged and decayed limbs, which were pruned from the orchards of this College for some time past, the greater portion of them received their first wounds by having their bark torn away, either by being trampled upon when green, in the act of crawling through the branches, or by being struck by some hard substance thrown from the ground; this was visible from the wounds where the decay first appeared.
It is therefore to be hoped that after this explanation of cause and effect is made, and that as the trees are now making a new growth in the place of what has been cut away, there will be no one seen inclined to show such disregard to the good or evil of the property about the College, as to mutilate the orchard in the manner and with the recklessness, with which it has previously been done.
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
This precaution is by no means intended to prevent the boys from having what fruit they want, and can procure, without injury to the trees; on the contrary, it is with a view of making it more abundant for them, by saving the young germs in their incipient stage of growth for next year’s maturity.
—Nearly all the Societies—religious, musical, scientific, and literary—have already completed their reorganization; and we are pleased to note the energy with which they seem disposed to enter upon the duties of their special sphere of action. The Cecilians were, as usual, the first in the field; and the unusually large number of talented and hard-working students that are to be found among the Juniors, gives us assurance that the fllag of this favorite Association is, this year, not destined to be lowered. Both Confraternities have begun operations; and • we hope that the good work, which they have been the the means of accomplishing in the past, will be continued and extended. The Philodemics are already in good order; the Columbians are fast completing their reorganization; the Philopatnans and Sorins are developing the usual amount of enthusiasm amoug the younger students; the Thespians have traced out tor themselves a programme of useful work, which they intend to accomplish during the session; the Orchestra is making ready to swell the general volume of harmony; and before the month is over, we hope to see the Band lending its efforts to enliven matters around the College.
The societies have been the life and soul of Notre Dame for years past. Long arguments are unnecessary to convince our students of the importance of securing the privilege of membership in some or other of them. We have but to look about us in the world, to see that great results are almost invariably due to organized efforts. Where individual efforts is powerless, that of organization is irresistible. In the moral world, religious organizations achieve results which individuals—however ardent their zeal—would never dream of bringing about. Political organizations make and multiply laws, establish and overthrow governments; while the financial world seems to be under the exclusive control of business organizations. Now our societies are seemingly organizations, whose only aim is the improvement of their members; when properly conducted, therefore, may not students expect from fhem results which, individually, they would never be able to obtain ?
There is at Notre Dame an abundance of good material for the societies to operate upon, and appearances indicate an expansion of their sphere of usefulness before the year is very far advanced. We do not wish by any means to curtail any of the privileges of the dramatic societies; but still, we trust that this year, while they contribute as much as in former years to the amusement of students, they will not be allowed to enjoy a monopoly of the public entertainments.
The literary and debating associations would do well to persuade themselves that they have not accomplished their whole duty, if they expend their whole “sweetness on the desert air ” of the society-room. Let us have a few public debates on live questions during the year. We know ol no exercise that would be more advantageous to those taking part, or more appreciated by those before whom they are delivered. In past years, we have had the
pleasure of assisting at a few purely literary seances, the programme of which comprised essays, original poems, and orations on subjects not necessarily argumentative; and we always looked upon them as sources of considerable pleasure and profit to the majority of the students.
The Philodemics, Columbians, and Cecilians, of ’80-81 would do well, therefore, not to neglec^ those pleasant little entertainments. There is an old maxim which says: “ Be sure you are right and then go ahead,” one which we always like to apply to our societies. We know they are on the right path, and we can only exhort them to keep on.
In conclusion, we would once again advise all the serious students, who have as yet become members of no or ganization, to attach themselves immediately to one or more of the above-mentioned organizations.
Personal.
—G. Knight, ’80, is residing at Chicago, Ill.
—J. Rice, ’76, is practicing law in Chicago, Hl.
—The Ittenbacks are doing well at Indianapolis.
—Jno. McGrath, sailed for Europe yesterday (16th).
—J. D. McIntyre, ’76, is residing in Detroit, Michigan.
—Ad. Widdecombe, ’78, is travelling agent for his father’s firm.
—M. Kauffman is in business at Cincinnati, where he is doing well.
—	M. D. Falvey, ’80, is keeping books for his father at Winamac, Ind.
—	E. Riopelle, ’77, is studying medicine at the Michigan University.
—	J. Broghan, ’75, has a large furniture establishment at Pinckney, Mich.
—	Rev. Father Condon, C. S. C., is the esteemed Direc-of the Professed House.
—	N. Kramer, J. Schultheis, F. Wittlesberger, .and W. Chapton are residing at Detroit, Mich.
—	Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne, Ind., was at the University lor a lew days last week.
—	L. J. Evers, ’79, is at St. Joseph’s Seminary, Troy, N. Y. He desires to be remembered to all his friends.
—	J. W. Bell, ’78, is head book-keeper in a wholesale and i etail establishment at Terre Haute, Ind.
—W. Murphy, ’79, is practicing law at Grand Forks; D. T. and J. H. Lyons, ’72, are doing well in the same place.
—Eugene F. Arnold, ’78, has just returned from Europe, whither he went last May, and is residing at Washington,
, —W. Hake, ’76, accompanied by his brother Henry, whom he placed in the Junior Department, spent a lew days here last week. Will is a “medic” at the University of Michigan.
—Rev. D. A. Clarke, ’70, editor of the Catholic Columbian accompanied by Miss M. Clarke, and his brother Frank, whom he placed in the Senior department, was with us a few hours on Monday last.
—Among our visitors last week were: Mrs. B. Coquil-lard, Misses E. and A. Myers, of South Bend; Mr. D. Sheehan, lady,.and Robert P. Sheehan, of Niles; Mrs. P. Hackett, and Misses N. and B. Hackett, of Ionia; Mrs. P. B. Ewing, Philip Ewing and Mtss Angela Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. F. T. Nichols, La.; Mrs. M. B. Start and son, Chicago, Ill.
—We had the pleasure of grasping the hand of W. S. Meyers ’74, the friend of our college days, who,—married on the loth, inst, to Miss Kelly, a most estimable young

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
27.
lady of Portsmouth, Ohio—with his young bride, paid a visit to his Alma Mater on Monday last. Will (“Jersey ”) is the very picture of health and happiness. The young couple have our best wishes for their happiness and prosperity through life.
—Among our visitors last week were: Messrs. S. Price, Agent of the P. W. & B. R. R., Middletown, Del.; W. F. Fowler, Chicago, Ill.; A. H. Dana, Brooklyn, N. Y.; 8. 8. Williamson, Kansas City, Mo.; T. D. Trumbull, Jr., Chicago, Ill.; J. Murdock and lady, Michigan City, Ind., H. Pitcher, and lady, Waupaca, Wis.; W. E. Vrooman and lady, Dowagiac, Mich.; J. Jewell, M. D., lady and family, and Clem. Studebaker, South Bend, Ind.
—We clip the following from one of the Rockwell papers, in regard to P. J. Dougherty, of the Law Class of ’79. It will be remembered that he was quite severely injured in endeavoring to save books from the burning college, April 23d, ’79: “ Our esteemed friend, of Rockwell, P. J. Dougherty, was last week examined by Judge Ruddick for admission to the bar, and having passed a most creditable examination, was comissioued 1 Barrister at Law.’ We are glad to note this. Pat is a mighty good boy and has uncommon talent. We predict a successful practice for him."
—Hon. W. H. Calkins paid the University a visit on Monday last, in company with Postmaster Pfleger, of South Bend. Major Calkins is one of the five or six men whose eloquence and sound sense could at any time command attention in such a vast and learned body as the United States House of Representatives, and we must therefore regret that the boys did not call him out for a speech. In fact, his visit was such a quiet one, that many were not aware of it until after his departure. We hope the next lime Major Calkins visits us—and we hope it will not be long hence—that he will favor the boys with a speech.	'
—On last Thursday forenoon a rumor ran around that Hon. D. W. Voorhees, the Promethean orator of the United States Senate, would visit the University and take dinner here. The boys were in greet glee, and counted on a half holiday through the favor of the distinguished visitor, but they were doomed to disappointment. It was not until ten o’clock on Friday that Senator Voorhees came out. He was received with an enthusiastic cheer by the boys, who were on the look-out for him. When Mr. Duer, of South Bend, introduced him, the Senator responded to the enthusiastic reception by a1 nice little speech containing some good advice referred to elsewhere.
Local Items.
—Welcome 1
—“ Happy to see you again.”
—“Did you have a good time?”
—“ I’m very near it—all the same.”
—“ Hold Orrick! ’’ “ Hold Orrick 1 ”
—Weather very cool. Where’s the prophet?
—Football seems to be the Juniors’ favorite game.
—“ Hurrah for this grand and glorious republic!”
—One hundred Juniors the first week. Immense!
—The “ Corporal ” has returned. His rotundity remains undiminished.
—Twenty-five members of the Cecilians of last year' have returned.	,
—The Minims’ Campus has been enlarged, and otherwise much improved.
—The students enjoyed a half-day’s “rec,” on Friday last—Senator Vorhees was here.	.
—The Minims are as noisy and as happy as ever. Bro. Amandus is their gentlemanly Prefect.
—Wednesday was an excellent day for indulging in such games as football, baseball, and handball.
—The old Mutual baseball grounds are undoubtedly the best gt Notre Dame. Bro. Lawrence did the work.
—The Philopatrians have organized. A full report of the election of officers will appear in our next issue.
—The Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary were reorganized last night, a full report of which will appear in our next issue.	.
—Masters C. J. Brinkman and E. C. Orrick are the young gentlemen who constitute ihe Junior study-hall “ Faculty ” for this year.
—The Seniors boast of a two hundred and fifty pounder. We’ll bet two hundred and fifty dollars that he’ll not be the coxswain of either boat’s crew.
—The Minims are filling up the ranks very fast. Thirtyeight on hand, and not a shadow of “ homesickness ” on any of their bright, happy laces.
—Tanner has undoubtedly made many proselytes; but one who knows says that those around Notre Dame are of a melan choly dispostion. Ask Bro. Thomas.
—The Chapel of the Portiuncida, near Mt. St. Vincent’s, is undergoing extensive and much needed repairs. When finished, it will be one of the finest chapels at Notre Dame.
—A new store is being built for the Juniors. They could not bear the idea of the Seniors monopolizing the whole trade, hence their resolution to have one of their own.
—“ Sancho,” “ Nep,” and “ Pluto,” are as lively and as noisy as of yore. They do not seem to be well pleased with “Teaser ” or “Fearless,” the pugnacious curs of Mt. St. Vincent.
—To-morrow being the Octave of the Feast ol the Seven Dolors, Missa ParouLorum, p. 37 of the Kyriale, will be sung. The hymns for Vespers will be found on p. 194 of the Vesperal.
—All should join in the singing during divine service. Don’t be afraid to sing too loud. Books containing the Masses, hymns, etc., to be sung, can be procured at the Students’ Office.
—The Rev. Director of Studies visited the Minim Department last Friday. He examined some classes, and expressed his satisfaction at seeing all so orderly and attentive to their studies.
—The secretaries of the different Associations will confer a favor on us, by being prompt in sending in their Society reports. A box has been placed near the Students’ Office into which these reports can be dropped.	'
—And now he’s in the Seniors’ yard, No more his kite shall fly;
For now he feels himself a man, Of toys and boys quite shy.
—The oration delivered by Judge Dunne, at the Commencement Exercises of last J une, has been published in beautiful pamphlet form; a copy of which can be procured at the Students’ Office for 10 cents. Get one.
—Parents having sons at the University, should subscribe for the. Scholastic. The Class Honors, Rolls of Honor, etc., herein published weekly, will keep them well informed of their sons’ standing in class, conduct, etc.
—We hope that our friends in both the Senior, Junior and Minim Departments will send us plenty of “locals,” and thereby help us to make these columns what they ought to be—the most interesting portion of the Scholastic. .
—Solemn High Mass was celebrated last Sunday by Rev. Father Kirsch, with Rev. Fathers O’Keefe and Litte as deacon and subdeacon, respectively. Masters Guthrie and Gordon were head-servers, and Master Tinley censerbearer.	-
—We shall be very happy to receive communications from everybody. But bear in mind that they must be local news. Do not forget to sign your name" to-each communication you send us; if you fail to do this, no attention will be given it.	_
—When shall we again have the pleasure of hearing the harmonious strains of the N. D. U. C. Band ? We hope it will be soon. Several of the old members are now here, and we can see no reason why reorganization should not take place^immediately.
e-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—Very Rev. Father General’s frequent visits to the Minims are like the genial warm sunshine to his young friends. A smile of recognition from him makes a Minim feel as big as a Senior, and a word of praise is sufficient reward for diligence in studies and good conduct.
—In the “Circulars of Information of the Bureau of Education,” published at Washington, D. C., Notre Dame University is mentioned as being among the few, out of the hundreds of colleges in this country, which gives any art-training, or possesses any art-collections.
—A Junior states that three “ hedge-hogs ” are to be seen every day at the northeastern part of the Campus. These hedge-hogs may be seen there, according to our informant, every day at half-past nine, a. m., at one, and half-past three o’clock, p. m. Where are the Nimrods?
—Brother Charles did some good work in the Minim Department during vacation. The stands for the new lavatory, which he planned, are the most convenient in the University. There is the greatest satisfaction in whatever Brother Charles directs; his work invariably bears the stamp of his judgment and good taste.
—Very Rev. President Corby has the best thanks of the Minims for the many improvements he has made in their Department. With him, there is no regard paid to expense, when it is question of the happiness and comfort of the small boys, who are even more the object of his care than the larger students of the University.
—Our friend John is under the impression that his cheek and chin need shaving, and has therefore provided himself with the necessary tools. He will start business sometime this week. We coincide with him, as far as the shaving of his “ cheek ” is concerned, but cannot at present give our opinion as regards the other parts of his physiognomy.
/ —“Bob” Ingersoll, who spoke in South Bend last Thursday night, is thus eulogized by an eastern paper: “ 1880 years before Christ, a fool said in his heart: ‘There is no God.’ 1880 years after Christ, a bigger fool said it right out loud. More fools paid a dollar ahead to hear him say it. God kept on living, and loving the fools all the time. But don’t you be a fool.”
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne, Ind., arrived here on Tuesday evening, bringing with him his nephew, Master J. Dwenger, whom he placed in the Minim Department. His lordship preached a most eloquent and instructive sermon at the opening Mass on Wednesday, after which he blessed the new College Chapel. A full account of the ceremonies of the occasion appeared in the Chicago Times.
—The first regular meeting of the Philodemics took place on Tuesday, 14th inst., and was held for the purposeof- reorganization. The following officers were elected: Director, Very Rev. Father Corby; President, Rev. T. E. Walsh; Vice-President, W. B. McGorrisk; Recording Secretary, Geo. Clarke; Corresponding Secretary,Geo. Sugg; Treasurer, J. P. Hagan. After a few remarks from the President, the meeting adjourned.
—The Lemonnier Boat Club held a meeting for the purpose of reorganizing onjWednesday, 15th inst., at which the following officers were elected: Very Rev. Father Corby, Director; Rev. Father Walsh, Referee; Rev. Father O’Keefe, President; John P. Hagan, Commodore; Chas. L. Hagan, Secretary; Frank W. Bloom, Treasurer; Geo. F. Sugg, Captain of the Hiawatha boat; and W. B. McGorrisk, Captain of the Minnehaha.
—We clip the following from the South-Bend Register of Saturday last, in regard to the re-opening of the University: “This famed educational institution has not had so auspicious an opening in ten years, as its present one. The number of students on opening day was far in excess of previous openings, and every day brings accessions. The indications are, that the collegiate year will be the most successful of any in the history of Notre Dame.”
—The Minims, judging from their merry laughter and ringing shouts, enjoy their after-supper recreations immensely. We happened to be with them on Monday evening, and were delighted to hear one of their number, Master -O’Connor, sing some really beautiful songs. He
has a most pleasing and well-cultivated voice. We hope to hear him again at some of the coming entertainments.
—The first regular meeting of the Thespian Association was held on Tuesday last for the purpose of reorganization. At this meeting the following officers were elected: Hon. Director, Very Rev. Father Corby; Director, Rev. Father Walsh; President, Prof. J. A. Lyons; Vice-President, C. Hagan; 'Recording Secretary, F. Bloom; Corresponding Secretary, G. F. Sugg; Treasurer, W. Arnold. After a few remarks by the Director, the meeting adjourned.	.
—The first regular meeting of the-Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held Sunday evening, Sept. 12th. At this meeting the following were the officers elected for the ensuing year: The President and Directors are the same as last year; 1st Vice-President, J. P. O’Neill; 2nd Vice-President, F. H. Grever; Recording Secretary, R. Fleming; Corresponding Secretary, C. J. Brinkman; Treasurer, C. A. Tinley; Sergeant-at-arms, E. C. Orrick; 1st Censor, C. J. McDermot; 2nd Censor, J. L. Morgan; Organist, F. Klein; Standard-Bearer, T. Flynn.
—Our attention was attracted towards the Minims’ yard on yesterday afternoon by an unusually loud cheer from the little fellows, accompanied by the sound of rushing feet. Upon looking out of our sanctum, the cause of this commotion was made apparent by seeing a large wagonload of apples, or rather boys and apples—for the Minims had by this time “scaled the heights”—pass by. The wagon box may have been well filled with apples before the Minims visit, but after their rather uncermonious visit was over, a few bushels were all that was left. O ye that pass by the Minims’ yard with wagon-loads of apples, take heed!
—The 1st regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and and Dramatic Association was held in their new Societyroom Wednesday evening, Sept. 15th. An election of officers for the ensuing session took place, with the following result: Directors, Very Rev. Fathers General and Corby; Assistant Directors, Rev. Fathers Walsh and O’Keefe; President, Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C.; 1st VicePresident, Jos. Courtney; 2nd Vice-President, D. Taylor; Promoter, Bro. Amandus; Cor. Secretary, H. Snee; Rec. Secretary, C. Echlin; 1st Censor, T. Van Mourick; 2nd Censor. H. Kitz; 3rd Censor, J. Dwenger; Sergeant-at-arms, E. Howard; Librarian, G. Tourtillotte; Treasurer, W. Hanavin; Monitor, C. Droste; Marshal, W. Ayers.
—An equine came uninvited into the Seniors’ Campus on Friday last: the “ Corporal ” soon espied him, and “ tumbled.” In less time than it takes to write it, there was seen a “ mounted Corporal ” riding as gracefully as a “ plumed knight,” while cheer upon cheer was given by the interested spectators. The “ Corporal ” felt the dignity of his position; the equine, the weight of the “ Corporal.” Struck by a sudden idea of performing some unprecedented equestrian feat, the “ Corporal” “tumbled ”again— striking his head on the hard gravel walk. On becoming conscious, and in blissful oblivion of what had occurred, he exclaimed: “Bind up. my wounds! give me a piece of pie! ” “ Deadwood Dick,” who was one of the most interested spectators, asked him if he wouldn’t have another horse ? What followed can be easily imagined.
The following letter, sent to Very Rev. Father Sorin five years ago, but which was not received by him until last week, explains itself.
Rome, Dec. 11th. 1875.
Rev. and Dear Father:—I have received your kind letter, dated the 11th of August, and I thank you very much for the kind expressions with which, on this occasion, you have been pleased to honor me.
I shall never forget my stay at the University of Notre Dame, nor the splendid reception in your beautiful Church, nor the great kindness which you then heaped upon me. Of all this I have given a most faithful account to the Holy Father, and he has granted to you, to all the good Fathers, and to all the scholars of the University of Notre Dame, a special Apostolic Benediction. Afterwards, through the mediation of His Eminence, Cardinal Franchi, I obtained for the University of Notre Dame, from the goodness of His Holiness, a handsome chalice, and this I have handed over to your Procurator, Father Ferdinando.	•
Renewing the sentiment of my gratitude, and presenting my

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	29
respects to all the Faculty, I have the honor to be your devoted and affectionate brother in Christ.	Cab. Roncetti.
—The first regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association waa held Saturday evening, Sept. 11th, sixteen old members being present. An election of officers took place, with the following result: Di-rector, Very Rev. W. Corby; General Critic, Rev. T. E. Walsh; Assistant Director, Rev. J. O’Keefe; President, J. A. Lyons; Honorary President, J. F. Edwards; Promoter, Bro. Leander; Lecturer on Political Economy, T. E. Howard; 1st Vice-President, E. C. Orrick; 2d Vice-President, C. A. Tinley; Historian, F. H. Grever; Recording Secretary, R. E. Fleming; Corresponding Secretary, J.L. Morgan ; Librarian, C. J. Brinkman; Treasurer, F. A. Quinn; Or-pheonic Branch, N. Weny; 1st Monitor, C. J. McDermott, 2d Monitor, A. J. Hintze; Promoter, Jos. Homan; 1st Censor, P. O’Neill; 2d Censor, J.W. Guthrie; Sergeant-at-arms, F. A. Kleine; Property Managers, T. Flynn, H. L. Rose; Marshall, C. F. Rietz. Mr/T. McNamara, C. S. C., has kindly consented to conduct the Musical Department of the Association. Prof. A. J. Stace, Judge Turner, Lawyers Anderson, Hubbard and Tong will deliver lectures before the Association during the year. A unanimous vote of thanks is tendered by the members to Rev. Fathers Freire and Francoion for favors to the Association.
—Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., most gratefully acknowledges favors shown him and the students who accompanied him from Columbus and vicinity, by Col. W. L. O’Brien, General Passenger and Ticket Agent, and Mr. Henry Monett, Assistant-General Passenger and Ticket Agent of the “ Pan Handle ” Railroad. These gentlemen are as liberal as they are obliging, and always make it a point to see that all passengers over their road have every attention and comfort. For those who wish to travel with the minimum of fatigue, all who have tried the “ Pan Handle ” pronounce it the best road from Central Ohio to Chicago; and for this reason parents and students coming to Notre Dame are recommended to take it in preference to any other. By leaving Columbus in the evening, they can take a sleeper to Chicago, where they arrive the next morning in time for breakfast, after which they can take the L. S. & M. S. R. R. for Notre Dame, where they will arrive in time for dinner. The “Pan Handle” boasts of having utilized every modern appliance that conduces to safety and comfort in railroad travel. Hence its great popularity, as is evinced by its large and numerous trains and crowded coaches. Further information may be had by applying to Col. W. L. O’Brien, or. Mr. H. Monett,—the gentlemenly agents of the road—219 North High St., Columbns, Ohio; to Rev. D. A. Clarke, Columbus, O.; and to Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
—The first game of football was played last Wednesday on the Junior Campus. It was one of the old-fashioned games, ninety-eight Juniors taking part in it. At p. m., “Marshal” O’Neill made his appearance on the Campus, followed by forty-eight boys with blue ribbons. The spectators, composed of Minims and students of the Senior Department, also several members of-the Faculty, applauded. Captain O’Neill acknowledged the compliment by raising his hat. Captain Fleming immediately followed, and received a like greeting. Capt. O’Neill soon won the toss, and chose the western goal. It was not an advantage, however, as the day was all that could be wished for—quite calm. The men were assigned their respective positions by their captains, and the ball tossed in the air at 1.45; after a struggle of 55 minutes, a goal was won by the blues. Both sides changed positions, and the game was again commenced, the blues winning second goal in fifty minutes. The reds, nothing daunted, started on the third bout, and won in twenty minutes; they also won the fourth, within 35 minutes, tieing the game. The deciding bout was commenced as the clock struck 4, and was won by the reds in 23 minutes. We noticed many good players on both sides. Those deserving special mention among the blues were: the Capt.. Messrs. Truschel, Cannon, Cul-linene, Orrick, Tinley, Tate, McDermott, M. Butler, Rietz, Will Smith, Bodine, Rhodius and Brinkman; among the reds: Captain Fleming, Messrs. Wheately, Maher, H. Rose, Gordon, T. Flynn, Woodson, W. Coghlin, Grever, Hake and Hetz.
Roll of Honor. '
. For the week endiny September 18f A
SENIOR* DEPARTMENT.
W. B. McGorrisk, G. Clarke, J. Solon, R. Anderson, J. Casey, B. Casey. J. A. McIntyre, J. C. Newman, F. J. Baker, F. Kuhn, H. S. O’Donnell, R. Le Bourgeois, J. Reilly, J. W. Quinn, J. Brown, A. Korty, C. Theile, J. D. Delaney, W. Jones, A. Moran, J. Killian, J. Cannon, H. A. Sters, M. A. Vedder, J. Malone, W. Johnson, E. G. Taggart, W. Kelly, T. Byrne, C. Vandusen, L. Mathers, A. F. Spangler, L. M. Proctor, C. Hasan, J. P. Hagan, J. Ryan, C. Brehmer, E. Sugg, F. Ward, C. W. Bennett, G. 8. Hagan, J. J. Malloy, B. F. Smith, W. E. Hoffman, D. English, D. Ryan, A. Thornton, R. Parrett, W. R. Young.
JUNIOR DEPABTMENT.
A.-A. Brown, J. H. Bennett, J. A. Boom, C. J. Brinkman, M. G. Butler, V. G. Butler, J. H. Burns, J. M. Boose, G. C. Cas-tenado, W. L. Coghlin, J. A. Casey, W. D. Cannon, T. H. Cul-linene, E. H. Croarkin, W. J. Cavanagh, H. P. Dunn, A. C. Dick, G. W. De Haven, F, H. Dorsel, N. H. Ewing, T. F. Flynn, J. H. Fendrick, R. E. Fleming, J. J. Gordon, L. G. Gibert, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, J. W. Guthrie, A. F. Gorman, F. H. Grever, F. W. Groenwald, H. P. Hake, T. J. Hurley, A. J. Hintze, F. R. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. A. Joyce, J. A. Kron, J. A. Kleine, J. M. Kelly, J. T. Maher, W. P. Mahon, J. McPhillips, J. Me-Elvogue, J. P. McClarnon, J. L. Morgan, E. A. Munce, C. J. McDermott, C. Murdock, S. Murdock, N. Nelson, J. Nelson, E. Orrick, G. F. O’Kane, J. P. O’Neill, C. F. Perry, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Rhodius, A. W. Rohrback, C. F. Rose, H. S. Rose, C. F.Rietz, Jos. Ruppe, H. G. Sells, W. E. Smith, C. Schneider, R. C. Simms, Geo. Schaefer, G. A. Truschel, C. A.Tinley, J. C. Wom-mer, T. J. Woeber, G. Woodson, T. Williams, N. T. Weney, A M. Coghlin, J. M. Flynn, P. G. Hoffman, J. W. Start.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, H. C. Snee, J. S. Courtney, C. J. Echlin, C. Metz, J. A. Kelly, L. Young, J. Frain, C. Young, F. B. Farrelly, E. Kearney, H. E. Kitz, W. Miller, H. Ackerman, E. A. Howard, J. H. Dwenger, A. A. Molander, C. E. Droste, J. Ruppe, D. O’Conner, M. Devitt, Jas. McGrath, L McGrath, A. Van Mourick, M. Olds, W. Hanavin, J. E. Chaves, B. Bender, John McGrath, E. McGrath, J. McGrath, W. Berthelet.
For the week ending September 25th. .
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. B. McGorrisk, Geo. Clarke, J. Solon, J. Casey, R Casey, J. A. McIntyre, L. E. Clements, J. C. Newman, W. Brown, F. J. Baker, F. Kuhn, R. Le Bourgeois, R. C. Adams, J. Reilly, J. Brown, A. Korty, C. Thiele, J. Killian, J. D. Delaney, G. Tracey, J. Cannon, H. A. Steis, J. Malone, W. Johnson, E. G. Taggart, W. Kelly, F. Godfroy, A. Thornton, L. Mathers, A. F. Spangler, L. M. Proctor, J. Osher, J. Ryan, C. Brehmer, F. J. Rettig, F. Ward, G. L. Hagan, J. J. Malloy, B. F. Smith, W. E. Hoffman, D. English, D. Ryan, A. A. Bodine, P. McGuire, W. Arnold, W. McCarthy, R. Leiberger, J. Falvey.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. A. Bodine, C. J. Brinkman, M. G. Butler, V. G. Butler, J. H. Bums, G. 0. Castanedo, A. M. Coghlin, J. A. Casey, W. D. Cannon, T. H. Cullinene, J. M. Courtney, Ed. Cullinane, E. H. Croarkin, W. J. Cavanaugh, W. S. Cleary, H. P. Dunn, A. C. Dick, G. W. De Haven, F. H. Dorsel, H. F. Deyitt, N. H. Ewing, A. J. Flynn, T. F. Flynn, J. M. Flynn, J. M. Farrell, J. H. Fendrick, R. E. Fleming, J. J. Gordon, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, W. W. Gray, F. W. Groenwald, P. G. Hoffman, H. P. Hake, T. J. Hurley, A. J. Hintze, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. Al Joyce, F. H. Kengel, F. A. Kron, F. A. Kleine, J. M. Kelly, F. X Mattes, A. Mendel, J. P. Morrison, J. T. Maher, W. P. Mahan, Frank McPhilips, J. McElvogue, J. P. McClarnon, J. L. Morgan, C. J. McDermott, C. M. Murdock, S. T. Murdock, N. J. Nelson. 8. Livingston, J. T. Neilson, E. C. Orrick, G. F. O’Kane, J. P. O’Neill, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Rhodius, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, J. Ruppe, G. W. Silverman, H. G. Sells, W. E. Smith, A. C. Schmidt, C. Schneider, R. C. Simms, G. Schafer, G. A. Truschel, C. A. Tinley, T. J. Woeber, F. W. Wheatly, Guy Woodson, W. T. Weney, J. W. Whelan, T. Williams, A. Bodine, J. W. Start, E. Fishel, F. Fishel, J. B. Wilder, F. E. Wilder, J. M. Hefferman, J. L. Hefferman, W. Ryan, J. F. Martin, E. Garlach, A. Rohrback.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, C. G. Echlin, J. S. Courtney, A. A. Molander, C. E. Droste, A. Van Mourick, H. C. Snee, M. S. Olds, W. F Hanavin, James McGrath, W. Berthelet, John J. McGrath, E. McGrath, J. E. Chaves, M. Devitt, J. Ruppe, H L. Ackerman, J. Frain, J. A. Kelly, L. Young, H. E. Kitz, B. Bender, W- J. Miller, John McGrath, T. McGrath, D. O’Connor, J. F. Bender, C. Metz.
30
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Matthews & Holt,
PLUMBERS & GASFITTERS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
GAS MACHINES,
AND DEALERS IN GASOLINE, *75 Dearborn St,, Unity Block, CHICAGO, ILL.
Refer by Permission to University ol Notre Dame, Ind.
CHEAP READING FOR THE MILLION.
Sadliek’s Household Library.
Comprising nearly 200 Volumes,
AT
IS AND 2S CENTS PER VOLUME, A Complete List sent free upon application.	■
It is the Intention of the publishers to continne this series of Cheap and Popular Works without limit should the undertaking continue to receive the encouragement and approval which has so far been bestowed upon it.
Nothing of the kind has yet been offered to the Catholic public that gives so much value for the money. The low price at which these books are sold, in quantities, enables their distribution in parishes to that extent as will, it is hoped, counteract the evil ii fluences which result from a class of literature circulated to such an alarming extent under the title of “Dime” and “chgap” novels.
%*Any volume sent, postage prepaid, to any address, on receipt of the advertised price, by the publishers.
THE NEW FORK TABLET FOR 1880.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
July 18,1880. Local and Through Time Table. No. 19.
Going North.		STATIONS.	Going South.	
1.25 am. 1238 “ 12.13 " 11.55 p.m. 11.24 “ 10.34 “ 9.58 “ 9 35 “ 9.08 “ 8.38 “ 7.51 “ 7.12 “ 6.10 “		Leave	Abbivb - - Michigan City, - -- - - - La Porte, - - - - - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - - -	- - Plymouth, - - -- - - - Rochester, - - - -	- - - Denver, - - -- - -	- Peru, - - - - -	- Bunker Hill, - - - - - Kokomo Junction, - - - - - - Tipton, - -- - - Noblesville, - - - - - Indianapolis, - - -	9.35 a.m. 10.23 “ 10.41 “ 11.00 “ 1135 “ 12.27 p.m. 1.05 “ 130 “ 1.59 “ 2.32 “ 3.16 “ 4.00 “ 5.00 “	8.05 p.m. 8 50 “ 9.2o “ 9 47 “ 10.33 “ 6.25 a.m. 7.01 “ 7.25 “ 1.01 “ 1.35 “ 2.23 “ 3.04 “ 4.00 “
	1.55 p.m. 1.36 “ 1.16 “ 12.46 “ 11.53 a.m. 11.14 “ 10.53 “ 10.24 “ 9.65 “ 914 “ 8.30 * 7 30 “			
THE ONLY LINE Rnnning a noon Train out of Indianopolis for NORTHERN INDIANA and MICHIGAN, and for Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST.
Elegant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANOPOLIS and CHICAGO, and IND’P’S and MICHIGAN CITY.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H Rockwell,
Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis. Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE IL EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, $1, postpaid.
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa.
The Largest and Cheapest Catholic Paper in theU. S.
EXTRAORDINARY INDUCEMENTS
To Subscribers remitting the amount of their subscriptions in advance. LOOK AT OUR
PREMIUMS!
The proprietors of the New York Tablet are pleased to announce that they have had engraved at great expense a fine portrait of Ireland’s Great Liberator,
DANIEL O’CONNELL,
which they are able to state is the only correct and life-like portrait of O’Connell that has yet been produced. The grandson of this illustrious patriot, now residing in this country, expresses his opinion of this work as the most authentic likeness of “ O'Connell ” extant, and highly compliments the artist on his great success in producing snch a magnificent work of art. The size of the portrait is 19x24 inches. Or any of the following pictures: A fine steel engraving of DR. CAHILL, engraved expressly for presentation; “AGONY IN THE GARDEN,” one fine steel engraving; portrait of LEO XIII, Father Burke, the Sacred Heart of Jesus or Mary, Henry Gratian, or Father Mathew, all of which were prepared expressly for presentation to those who remit the amount of their subscription in advance.
AU letters should be addressed to the publishers, and remit-iances should be by post office order or by draft on New York, drawn to the order of the undersigned. Sample copies sent free.
Address
D. & J. SADLIEB & CO.,
31 Barclay St., New York.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Tabie-Nov. 16, 1879.
	♦Man	♦Day Express.'	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Nih s	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 60 a. m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo - -“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - ■ Ar. Chicago - - -	7 CO a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55p.m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 pm. 1245 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 830 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Wiles and Soxxtlx Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “ 6 38 “ ' Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.	+ Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Hbnby C. Wentworth, H. B. Ledyard,	.
G. P, £ T, A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich, G. L, Elliott, -Agept, South Bend, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
31
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872 for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. IP. EBAVARDS.
Notbe Damb, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
All Kinds ot Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST I
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo. Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton. Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars are also run between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its traok is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Dlinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany ail Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
Dining Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the L-S.&M-S^ andP., Ft W. &C. R.Rds.
At Washington Heights, with P, C.SSL L. R. R.
At LA Salle, with III. Cent. R. R.
At Peoria, with P. P. & J.; P. D.&E.;LB.i W-; UI. Mid.; and T.P. & W. Rds.
At Rock Island, with “Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d & Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C. M. & St. P. R. R.	„
At West Liberty, with the B., C.R.& N.R.R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. R.
At Des Moines, with D. M. & F. D. R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R.R.
At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R. B. R. in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction,with B.,C. R. & N. R.R.
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR.R.;W^ St. L. & Paa. and C. B. & Q. R. Rds.
At KEOKUK, with Tol., Peo. & War.: Wab., St. Louis & Pac., and St L., Keo. & N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St J- R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch.. Topeka & Santa Fe; Atch. & Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pao, and Kan. Cent R. Rds.
At Kansas CITY, with all lines for the West and Southwest
PULLMAN' PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA, DES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS. KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVENWORTH.
Tickets via this Line, known as the “ Great Rock Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the "United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
A.. KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN,
Gen’l Superintendent,	Gen’l Tkt. and Pass’gr Agt,
Chicago, Ill.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING BAST.
2	25 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p.m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11	05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 525 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13	16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 240 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4. 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago. 8 p.m.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight
F. C. Raw, Ticket Agt, South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE,Gen’lpt.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago 8s North-Western Railawy,
embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all* points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	.
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass.tAg’L, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Three Great Cities of the West
RY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for eeate in thejlneet Reclining Chair Palace Cart in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VTA ST. LOUIS.
Tlie Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Minims districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CABS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any eoupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Chablton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager.
210 Dearborn st., near cor. of Adams, Chicago.