The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS. ' •	.
,	“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.” .	.
Volume VI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 22, 1873.	Nuinber 28.
Music.
How delightful is music! how charming its strains! How pleasing to the senses! how soothing to the soul! It is a balm for a lonely heart, changing melancholy into a sweet, gladsome sorrow—yet it is not sorrow. It banishes life’s cares and troubles, and allays life’s afflictions and woes. It strikes the chord of harmony within one, sending his soul fleeting away on its vibrations. It calls up the pleasant hours gone by, whose remembrance gives joy to the heart, and makes pensive pleasure for the moment. Still it is too delicious to be described, too enchanting to be conceived.
Music is nature’s voice, and is ever blended in nature’s language. What solemn harmony in the roll of the deep blue ocean! what majestic strains arise from the coursing river! what tender murmurings come from the purling brook! See the great forest swaying to and fro, as it were—the wind whistling through the branches of its members: see the comely flowers of Summer nodding and smiling to the kissing breeze fleeting by, whispering in mellow tones; If we could comprehend their many tongues, if we could unravel their many mysteries, what a lesson we would be taught.!
Animal creation is also profusely supplied with musical organs. Listen to the wailing of the dumb brutes! do we not pity them? Ah! it is the music in their cries that touches the heart. Is there’not melody in the ass’s bray as well as in the lion’s roar? in the owl’s hoot as well as in the nightingale’s chant ? No one can fail to comprehend. Listen to the first sound man utters: though indistinct it is melodious. Still, how many are unable to perceive the melody! But this only proves that all are not endowed with a relish for the beautiful in sound.
Every one should cultivate a taste for music; if they do not they lose one of life’s greatest charms.
•	L. S.
Modesty.
Modesty does not consist, as many may suppose, in’the entire ignorance of or too great a. distrust in our own merits, but in a fair and moderate estimate of our character, qualifications and merits. Every age, every sex and every condition of life has its peculiar virtues, but modesty is a virtue that isnot restricted to any one; it may be said to be necessary to all. A person possessing this virtue is the owner of a treasure that is esteemed by all, and a modest estimate of one’s acquirements will conduce materially to success in life. It shields the possessor from many of the mortifications and disappointments which on every side assail the self-conceited man, for it will 'cause him to consider
beforehand, and be careful about many things which he that thinks himself infallible readily takes hold of only to meet with discomfiture.	- . A
Modesty is thus a safeguard in our actions, to our property, and to ourselves. It obtains for its possesser the good will and esteem of everyone, even of an enemy or a rival. It makes all pleased with him, and makes them at ease with him and themselves.	■
We all know the advantages of having every one our friend, and being at enmity with no one. Besides giving us many advantages for the acquirement of honorable station or lucrative imployment, it brings us the happiness and pleasure of true friendship, and the satisfaction of knowing that our friends act thus towards us not on account of the expectation of gain, but through love for us and our peculiar traits of character.	°
There is a great difference between modesty and humility. A humble man is always filled with a sense of his own unworthiness, and places every one above himself from a sense of their superior merits. He sees only the good traits of others, and his own demerits. The humble man freely allows all advantages to others, while the modest man claims nothing for himself. Modesty would be'par-ticularly desirable in young persons, since it is peculiarly characteristic of virtuous youth. It endears youth to every one. It begets no jealousy, for it seeks no distinctive prferments, and when these are accorded it indulges in nd vain or pompous show. Modesty opens the avenues oif the human heart, and renders both mind and heart suscep-ble to the instructions and good counsels of those who are older and more experienced, thus enabling its possesor to guide himself safely though life’s vicissitudes. " This amiable virtue should therefore be cultivated, and considered one of the most precious adornments of youth. The example of great and good men should be an inducement for us to follow in their footsteps. We should also bear in mind that its opposite is never justifiable, and one of the poets says that, “ Want of modesty is want of sense.” -'
.• ~ Nomius. '
A Belgian physician has discovered that bronchitis and other throat affections rise as the cravat falls. He finds that in 1830, when the cravat went twice br three times round the neck, there was little bronchitis. From 1840, when the cravat went only once round, colds had a great increase. After 1850 the height of the cravat was diminished, and throat affections increased still more. In 1870 a great increase of bronchitis: -the cravat hardly went once round the neck. In 1873 the cravat is reduced to a simple knot attached to the shirt button; affections of the throat and chest now form a twentieth part in the bills of mortality.	,	.	. •
218
THE SCHOLASTIC
Promotions.
Aside from the caprice of individuals, merit has always teen the means by which those in the humbler walks of life have succeeded in raising themselves to dignities and honor. This is peculiarly exemplified in our country, where the farmer or the mechanic may aspire to the highest office, not as in Europe, where money can buy an office. What would you think if you heard of an American buying an office? No American would ever think of the like! Nor would an American accept an office from his fellow-citizens did he think himself incapable of fulfilling its duties.
Look at the incumbents of the various offices in the gift of the people: think you would they accept the high offices they hold, did it once enter their mind that they were incompetent? Not at all.
And what caused the Americans to choose them ? Because they saw they were just the men they wanted: men of burning and persuasive eloquence, who could sway the masses and unite in harmonious unison conflicting parties. Excuse me, gentle reader, my patriotic feelings carried me away and forced me to pay my respects to our noble men, the nation’s pride.	.
Numerous instances are recorded in history, wherein the great showed the extravagance and capriciousness of their ideas. I will here enumerate a few remarkable instances:
Cheveron informs us that the Sultan Osman having observed a gardener planting cabbage with some dexterity, raised him to an office near his person.
Marc Antony gave the house of a Roman citizen to a cook who made for him a good supper. J .
Henry VII being told that all Ireland could not rule the Earl of Kildare, “ Then,” said he, “ this Earl shall rule all Ireland.” .
Henry VIII raised a steward to a considerable dignity because he had a roasted boar prepared for him when his majesty happened to be in the humor of eating one.
James I raised George Villiers from a private station, and loaded him with wealth and honors because he was beautiful
. M. de Chamelot, Minister of France, owed his promotion to the fact that he was the only man in France who could beat Louis XIV at billiards.
Would not Americans laugh were they to hear that the President made a Secretary of State of such a one because he was an expert cabbage planter, or appointed me General of the Armies because I was handsome? (and undoubtedly I am.) No, my friends, we live in a land of happiness and honesty, where merit alone carries the day,— where there is no buying office, no placing persons in office because they are rich or influential. We are a prosperous and happy people. We have honorable and devoted Representatives and Senators, and none but honest men holding office.	Lionello.
Devotion to Music.—It is said that singers under the Papal authority at Rome used to devote one hour each day to the practice of difficult passages in music, one hour to trills, one hour to the study of intonation, two hours to expression, half an hour to the theory of sound, half an hour to the study of counterpoint, one hour to literature, and one hour to some other study connected with music, generally to the composition of a psalm, and then in addition devote the evening to study.
' The Indebtedness of Man to Inferior . Creatures. - - -	- ■
As we pass up and down in this wonderful world of ours, at first thought we may boast ourselves as quite independent, but upon a moment’s reflection we are brought to the irresistible conclusion that we are constant debtors to the inferior creation surrounding us.
Without the support afforded by the vegetable and animal world, where would be the strength of which we are so proud, where the beauty of which we are so vain ? where our fine clothes, our rich viands, our grand edifices, and other works of art ? Ask whence came the granite of yonder stately structure? the marble of the white House? the carved monuments and statues, the pride and boast of our large cities? It was the architect who planned the fine houses, the sculptor who designed the exquisite statues. True enongh, but were not the granite and the marble, the sand for the mortar, and the steel of which the chisel was formed, were they not all dug from the bosom of the earth ? Ah, man! thou art indeed a debtor to the very dust beneath thy feet.
Yonder is an extravagantly-attired lady. Whence come the luxuriant folds of her silken velvet robe ? whence the rich ribbon of her sash ? From what fountain sprang the beauty of her delicate satin slippers ? Come one side with me a moment. Do you behold that poor little worm? How like to those disgusting apple-worms you sometimes see in an ill-attended orchard I Permit me to whisper in your ear: that brilliant ribbon, that glossy velvet, that rich satin was woven from a minute web furnished from the throats of poor little worms like this one before you. Un-poetical silk-worm! the very coffin in which you buried yourself has become the boast and the chief glory of our richest ladies. Poor, poor lady! did you ever imagine how much you owe to little worms, to the disgusting little creature which would frighten you into spasms were it to crawl upon your beautiful dress, to which it certainly has a better right than you have ?
It is now winter time. Yonder is another fine lady, with an Astracan cloak and muff. How aristocratically she bears her pretty head! Ah, my dear madam, I trust you will not turn out to be one of the goats on the last day, but there is no disputing the fact that at present your chief attraction is the shining goatskin which has been imported from the snowy land of Russia or Siberia. The glove on your hand is the gift of a kid. The feather on your hat you owe to a clumsy bird—very graceful as it now appears, I admit, but remember its source, and don’t look so proud if you please. Were the animal creation to leave you without a single donation, your wardrobe would not be so rich, I assure you. Thibets and merinos, with your feathers and your velvets, your hangings and your carpets, would suddenly disappear. Ah, and your table, madam! Where would be your porksteak and your beef-steak, your wild-fowl and your chicken, your butter, eggs and milk? Are you not more nearly allied to the animal than you had supposed ?
If the vegetable world, also, were less bountiful to you, where would .be the snowy linen that covers your table and composes your luxurious couch? where the fairylike fabric which forms the meshes of your dainty pocket-handkerchief? where the cotton so useful in the household? Ah! and where would be the very timbers of which your house is made ?	.
Remember we do not mention the fruits so essential to
I
THE SCHOLASTIC.
219
your pleasure, and the flowers you so much admire. Do you not feel as though you were a shrub, or rosebush, you owe so much to the vegetable world ?
Stop a moment, though! I have just espied your jewels. Your pearls, my dear lady, once belonged to a poor sick oyster; your diamonds, gold and rubies—your turquois, your opal and your amethyst—ah, all your lovely jewels— were exhumed from the dark, filthy ground, and so was the money with which you purchased them. Dust indeed has covered your greatest wealth, as it will at no distant day cover your own poor little body.	M. H.
St. Mary's, Alexandria, Ya.
Anniversary Celebration of St. Patrick’s Day at Notre Dame,
Tuesday Evening, March 18, 1872.
Exhibitions are always a source of amusement, pleasure and instruction at Notre Dame. Indeed it would be strange if they were otherwise. They are so to those who take part in them, as well as to the audience; for everyone feels a pleasure in endeavoring to please his neighbor. Many indeed are they who take part, each one contributing his little to the common stock, and in the collection of these littles we have an Exhibition. The mighty edifice itself is made up of little bricks or stones—little and almost insignificant in themselves, yet each forms an important part of the whole; remove one, and the beauty and it may be the stability of the edifice is impaired. Yet when we look upon it we sel-’ dom think of the littles of which it is composed. Veiy similar is the Exhibition. It is composed of littles, and often when the Exhibition is over and the impression it made upon the mind, we forget those who played the various parts and are inclined to look at it as a whole, and pronounce it good or bad according as taste dictates. Sometimes, also, one or more of the Dramatic or Literary Societies of the University volunteer their services, and we of course in return feel grateful to them and appreciate their endeavors to afford us an evening’s entertainment. But things were arranged somewhat differently for the celebration of St. Patrick’s Day this year.
Great is the respect and veneration entertained at Notre Dame towards the great Saint of the “Insula Sanctorum el Doctorum"—so much so, indeed, that it would seem that two days instead of one were given to his memory—the 17th, of which another pen has spoken, and the evening of the 18th, of which it is for us to speak. The Exhibition was given by the students as students, and not by any of the Societies of the College in particular.
“The oration of the day,” by Mr. T. F. O’Mahony, B. S., in behalf of the literary portion of the Entertainment, was one of the finest we have ever heard in Washington Hall on the Anniversary of St. Patrick’s Day. It was indeed whathll expected it would be—a production worthy of the occasion and of the author. It was rich with thought, and full of sentiments which should be borne in the bosom of every son of Erin; though rather long it was not tiresome—and, what was best of all, the orator’s countenance told that he felt what he said,—in keeping with the saying that “ he who would make his audience cry must cry first himself.” In the musical part Mr. P. J. O’Connell certainly holds an undisputed claim, and in the dramatic we feel that we may safely put forward Mr. E. McLaughlin, who in his personation of the charac
ter of “ Shylock ” wanted but the costume. However, it may be more acceptable to the readers of The Scholastic to have us follow the programme.
The Band has been the subject of so much praise of late that we fear it would be taken as flattery to attempt to add any further; suffice it to say that we endorse all that has been said. Having already spoken of the oration, and feeling obliged to omit our appreciation of the orchestra, we will “over" with the programme. The first thing that greets our eyes on this side of the sheet is the “ Scene from the Merchant of Venice.” This, it will be remembered, was read by Mr. Murdock, the celebrated elocutionist, some evenings since; but we are far from thinking of instituting a comparison; it would be absurd. In this, as mentioned above, the character of “Shylock” was .very well taken; the others, though they did well, did not appear to understand their characters sufficiently. At times however they seemed to have faint glimmerings of the role they had assumed for the occasion, showing that had they had more time to study their parts they would certainly render them in a manner still more praiseworthy. We will not take up the names of those who took part in this scene, or give our appreciation of their respective parts, for we fear that our remarks are already much extended. Mr. P. J. O’Connell is always one of the principal sources of mirth at our Entertainments, and instead of giving us one song he gave ua several—“The Jaunting Car,” “Maggie Noral,” “Paddie’s Land,” “ Biddie O’Toole,” and wound up with “ The Wearing of the Green”—all of which he sang well.
Speaking of songs, we must not omit to notice the fact that Mr. P. O’Sullivan gave us a treat by singing a song in Irish. This of course met with prolonged applause, designed to bring the gentleman out again, which proved successful. Mr. O’Sullivan came out, and gave the final “ shuffle.”
In the Junior portion of the Entertainment, the dialogue “Rival Orators,” between Messrs. A. Schmidt and W. Dexter, was good. “ The Battle of Fontenoy ” was well rendered by Mr. 0. Waterman, and the Letter from the Chinese Correspondent of the “Philomathian Standard” was well read by F. Egan. Of course no one could help laughing at Mr. F. McOscar’s piece. We come now to the scene from the play of “ Catiline ” by Crowley, and here we must interpolate by adding the names of Messrs. Breen, Stubbs, Quill, Campbell, Morgan, Hunt, Egan, and Reuben Hutchings to those given in the programme. The part of “ Catiline” was well taken by Mr. O. Waterman, who seemed to have a clear conception of the part he was playing. Mr. L. Hibben, in the character of “ Cicero,” is deserving of much praise; he too had a good idea of his part; and the “ Consul,” Mr. Fletcher, sat in his seat as if he were really vested with consular power. After the stage performance was over, the Rev. President of the University arose and in a few words complimented those who had taken part in the Entertainment. He summed up the sentiments of all when he said that he expressed the mind of every one present in saying that all were well pleased. The Entertainment was “short and sweet,” for before the clock had sounded 9.15 the Exhibition Hall was empty, and soon the inmates of Notre Dame were in quiet repose.	Eb.
The new boat-house is finished, and is a great improvement upon the old one. The outer end of it is covered with a platform .which is to be shaded with - canvas. This will be a cozy resort in the Summer time.
220
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Sshnlastw.
Published every Weele during Tenn Time, at
MOTHE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: One year......................$2 00
One session (5 months)........ 1 25
Single copier (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
X<otre Dame Umversity Sill.
The Notre Dame University Bill passed the Indiana Legislature March the 7th, inst. It was an amendment to the Charter of Notre Dame University, granted January 15,1844, hy which amendment the said University is empowered to hold in its name $300,000 worth of real estate, exclusive of improvements, instead of $30,000 as granted in the old charter.
This Bill does not in any way or shape affect the University, as regards taxation. It stands now precisely as it stood before, and is liable to pay taxes for all its property except oh that which is exempt from taxation according to paragraph 5th of Section 7th of an Act to provide for a uniform assessment of property and for the collection and return of taxes thereon, and which reads as follows:
“ Section 7. The following property shall be exempt from taxation:
“ Fifth. Every building erected for the use 'of any literary, benevolent, charitable, or scientific institution, or by any individual or individuals, association ‘ or corporation, erected for the same purpose by any town, township or county, and the tract of land on which such building is situated, not exceeding twenty acres, also the personal property belonging to any institution, town, township, city or county, and connected with or set apart for any of the purposes aforesaid.”
The above explains sufficiently what is taxable and un-taxable property at Notre Dame.
The thanks of Notre Dame University are due to Hons. L. Hubbard, W. W. Butterworth, and Joseph Henderson, our worthy and efficient Senator and Representatives, who by their personal influence and untiring efforts put the Bill through the Legislature.
In regard to taxation, it must not be forgotten that the taxable property at Notre Dame, as well as the untaxable property, is owned by two distinct corporations, viz.: the University of Notre Dame du Lac, and the Brothers of St. Joseph. These latter were recognized as a corporation by an act of the Indiana Legislature dated January 15,1844, and have always existed since as a distinct corporation, whose object is to instruct youth in the science of Letters, the arts of Mechanism, and that of Agriculture, for which purpose the building known as the Notre Dame Manual Labor School was erected many years ago.
Now clause 7th of Section 7 of the Act referred to above, and entitled An Act to provideforauniform assessment of property and for the collection and return of taxes thereon, reads as follows:
“Section 7. The following property shall be exempt from taxation:
“ Seventh. The personal property and real estate of every Manual Labor School or College incorporated within this State, when used or occupied for the purpose for which it was incorporated, such real estate not to exceed three hundred and twenty acres.”
In virtue of which the Brothers of St. Joseph have always claimed exemption from taxation on the said number of acres. Upon which said acres the County of St. Joseph has as perseveringly claimed to levy taxes, the provision above referred to notwithstanding.
The number of boys taught various trades, such as Printing, Tailoring, Shoemaking, Carpentering, Masonry, Joinery, Blacksmithing, and Agriculture, has always been from 40 to 60, most of whom are orphan boys, paying a nominal fee at their entrance into the school.
This school was never self-supporting, owing "no doubt to the kind of trades taught in it, which required a long apprenticeship and the unavoidable waste of materials and tools, and owing also to the fact that the welfare of the young apprentices has always been looked to more than the financial prosperity of the school. In fact the discipline of the Manual Labor School, often mistaken by misinformed people for a House of Correction, is not different from that of the University itself, the greatest care and kindest treatment being always bestowed on its inmates.
Financially, the Manual Labor School wTould have been a failure had it not received a necessary support, not from the Township or the County, but from the Brothers of St. Joseph themselves. Of course the Township as well as the County have never failed to manifesto generous disposition towards Notre Dame and the Manual Labor School, and we do not mean to attach blame to either, but simply state that even as it is, and as it stands now, the Manual Labor School, or rather the Brothers of St. Joseph, try to fulfil the requirements of their charter at a disadvantage to themselves, pecuniarily speaking, and that all unnecessary burdens are not calculated to encourage them in fulfil-ing a duty which every one knows is arduous enough, and quite unrewarding from a certain point of view.
T
St. Patrick’s Day was celebrated in SouthBend. Rev. Father Spillard, Pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, sang High Mass, and Rev. Father O’Rourke preached.
In the evening there was a very pleasant reunion of about a thousand citizens, who partook of the banquet, listened to the songs and made speeches. Fathers Spillard and Condon, Messrs. Haggerty, Egbert and Murphy responded to the toasts. Miss Shirland, Miss Spillard and Miss Boyne, who sang and played several patriotic songs, contributed much to render the evening pleasant. Too much praise cannot begiven to the energy, good will and thorough tact of the committee of arrangements, both in regard to getting up the banquet and to the attendance upon the guests.
We learn from the Philadelphia Inquirer of March 13th that M. J. Skilling, formerly a compositor in this office, had the degree of Doctor of Medicine conferred upon him by the faculty of Jefferson Medical College, on the 12th inst. Mr. Skilling’s associates of former years tender him their hearty congratulations. “ Where there’s a will there’s a way.”
T. F. Heery, of Commercial Class, ’69, is now settled and doing prosperous business at Clarksville, Iowa.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
221
St. Patrick’s Day at STctrs Dame.
Occasionally in the course of revolving time St. Patrick’s pay and fine weather fall upon the same day. When such is the case, Notre Dame presents a singular spectacle. Shamrocks are to be seen on the breast of everyone; some indeed of native growth, which, of course, are genuine, but the great majority from the silk-worm’s nest or such as grow on American soil—yet all showing the good will of those who wear them; we sec them of every allowable tint, size and shape. Such is the external manifestation of what the heart feels.
St. Patrick’s Day, 1873, was one of those days we call beautiful; indeed they are the more beautiful at this season of the year. The sun rose beautifully in the morning aud shed forth its golden light as if it too took part in the feelings of love, gratitude and joy that were being manifested in every part of the civilized globe. The mud which but a few days previous had greatly intimidated those about to take a walk had dried up, and the atmosphere had softened apace, though during the forenoon we were greeted to occasional gusts of chilly winds, so much so that we may say the forenoon had the chills. The afternoon, however, was far from inheriting the malady. We have spoken of the appearance of the day itself, and may now speak of the circumstances which occurred to make it even more interesting.
At eight o’clock the Band came forth and played in front of the College, and then led the way to the church, where they played “St. Patrick’s Day in the Morning” in a manner truly praiseworthy. Solemn High Mass was celebrated, after which nothing remarkable happened until twelve o’clock, when the bell poured forth notes as harmonious as ever, and one and all proceeded to give ear to its call as natural as life. Thus did the inmates of Notre Dame pay first of all their tribute of respect and veneration to the great Saint of Ireland, and when this was done, then for a gala day. We deem it superfluous to make any remarks right here, for everyone knows what we would say, and hence we leave this to the imagination of the reader.
One o’clock at length came round, and the Juanitas and Collegiate Nine were in readiness. Many of the old students remember St. Patrick’s Day two years ago, when Bro. Norbert Joseph was as now Prefect in the Senior Department, how he put up a barrel of apples as a prize for the winning nine, and how nobly the old Star of the East contended for and won the prize. Well, that is among the things and acts of the past, as indeed is this, yet this is so lately past as almost to be called present; but th s resembles that in this, that the prize was from the same source, and the vanquished nine was of the same club as then. But the victory in this instance was won by the Collegiate Nine instead of the Star of the East. The latter, though up and in a prosperous condition, did not take part.
Hugh Gillen, of Commercial Class, ’65, is one of the leading merchants of Aurora, Illinois. A thorough business man, as every one knows. .
Recreation pays are now employed in the most satisfactory manner, and are enjoyed; no one now looks upon the recreation day with dread on account of the weather. Spring is indeed, a happy season for the students of Notre Dame.
Fly-Catches.
The little birds have commenced to return and cheer us with their merry voices.	'
Laboratory.—The second lecture has been delivered ' before the Class of Physics and Chemistry. The subject was: “ Physics in General.”
“ Kan-u-Gess.—Why is the little house in the Botanical Garden like the dance called Tucker ? Because there is one (room) in the centre and the rest all around.
Visitors.—Bro. Augustus has been called upon of late to show a great many strangers about the College. He is kept almost constantly engaged, and hence is always in good humor, for nothing pleases him more than to be attending to his duties as cicerone; and we feel pleased, too, to be visited.
A thunder shower greeted us on the morning of the 15th inst. We say greeted, because it, they say, indicates settled weather, but the heavy winds which disturbed our slumbers not many nights since do not seem to have been very well settled. A gentle zephyr is needed to float the flag unfurled from “ the top-mast ” at the boat-house.
The initiatory game of base-ball was played on Wednesday of last week by the Juniors, and the Seniors imitated their example on the following day. Warm weather brought out the base-ballists in a hurry. The Collegiate nine were the first to commence regular practice, playing with the Star of the East at the half past three recreation. No doubt the matches will soon begin.
Exercise.—Now that nice weather is coming, everyone should be prepared to avail himself of the swings, the parallel bars, the ball-alley, the ball-field, and the walk about the field. “ A sound mind in a sound body ” said one who lived nearly two thousand years ago, and the saying is admired even at the present time. Therefore be alive to the exercise of the body, that it may be kept strong, aud thus lend a helping hand to the mind itself. “ The mind,” said a certain Saint, “ is like a bow; it should not be kept constantly bent lest it lose its strength.”
The Band.—One fine afternoon of last week the Band came forth and cheered us with a serenade; they were on -their way to Mr. McMahon’s, that gentleman having invited them to partake of his hospitality; there .they spent a pleasant afternoon, as all testify. The Band speak of this occasion as the most pleasing they have enjoyed for some time, and we rejoice to see it appreciated. It has been truly said that too much praise cannot be given the Band, and we have every reason to conclude that the Band of the present year will remind us of the Band in years gone by, by coming forth and making things harmonious about the College. We, with the Band, regret that Mr. McMahon with his excellent family is about to remove from our neighborhood.
Foul-Tips.—The ice is gradually evacuating the lake, which begins to assume its usual tint; navigation is opening, and we will no doubt soon see the boats glide about on its surface; in fact a general change is taking place almost everywhere. The ice is leaving the lake, yet the play-hall is no longer the great centre of all amusements, but is becoming isolated. Many of the students have taken down the bat and ball, yet the fly-catching which was indulged in so extensively in the Seniors’ front yard has been sent to the field by the fact that a slice has
222
THE SCHOLASTIC
been taken from this yard and given to the Juniors, a tasty fence separating the two recreation grounds. But this does not deter the Minims and some of the Juniors from indulging in our favorite game of “ mibs,” an excellent game for the simple reason that one always has to get dozen to business.
Elocution.—It was lately the pleasure of the inmates of Notre Dame to hear in Washington Hall a reading by Mr. James Murdock, the celebrated elocutionist, which was a splendid, I may say a first-class Entertainment in itself, and never have we heard anything of the kind that could be compared to it. What he gave were either entire productions or long extracts, and such as showed the real merit of the one rendering them. When reading the scenes from “ The Merchant of Venice ” and from “ Macbeth,” we really imagined there were several persons on the stage playing their respective roles. “ The Wonderful One Horse Shay,” “ The Barber,” and “ Mr. Pickwick ” were among the humorous pieces read. We must not omit the “ red-haired man,” ■who seemed to be a particular favorite among a certain number of students. “MacLean’s Child” was well-rendered; so was “ Drifting.” In fact Mr. Murdock gave us as much pleasure as he did to the students years ago, before the eventful years of the war had aged him more rapidly than twice that number of years in ordinary times would have done. He is always a welcome visitor to Notre Dame.
Roll of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week peceding the given date.]	'
FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1873.
Senior Department.
A. Allen, F. Buter, W. Briant, C. Berdel, M. Bastarache, W. Bartlett, G. Brown, J. Brown, J. Begue, M. Bannon, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, W. Clarke, W. Campbell, J. Claffey, E. Chalfant, B. Dorsey, J. Devine, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, T. Dundon, C. Dulaney, P. Downey, T. Flanigan, T. Fitzpatrick, M. Foote, J. Ferry, M. Foley, J. Gillen, E. Gambee, A. Greening, E. Graves, J. Hogan, T. Hansard, E. Halpin, J. Harrington, J. Hamilton, J. Hoffman, J. Hand, A. Hess, H.ilug, P. Jaeobs, J. Kelly, T. Keenan, J. McGlynn, E. Morancy, J. McDermott, J. McAlister, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin, E. McSweeney, J. McCormick, T. Murphy, J. Murphy, E. Monahan, A. Mooney, T. Noel, P. O’Meara, P. O’Mahony, P. O’Connell, J. O’Brien, T. Phelan, C. Proctor, E. Spitley, G. Stack, F. Scrafford, G. Summers, J. Scherei, P. Sullivan, M. Torbett, W. Van’t Woud, C. Vinson, C. Walter, H. Walker, J. Wolfe, H. Zeitler.
Junior Department.
F. Austin, G. Amann, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, C. Black, C. Burger, P. Brosseau, J. Caren, A. Crunkilton, E. Dougherty, J. Devine, J. Dore, W. Dexter, F. Egan, H. Enneking, J. Ewing, W. Fletcher, C. Furer, W. Gross. J. Graham, J. Golsen, H. Hunt, E. Holt, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, L. Hibben, R. Hutchings, A. Kleine, A. Kreiter, W. Kinzie, R. Lewis, W. Meyer, F. McOsker, J. Mullarky, E. McMahon, S. McMahon, W. McMahon. S. Marks, J. McGrath, W. Morgan, E. Milburn, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, N. Mooney, J. McGinnis, J. McNulty, D. O’Connell, E. G. Ohmer, C. O’Connor, W. Pollard, J. Quill, A. Reid, C. Reid, W. Rumely, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, A. Schmidt, F. Swe-ger, W. Schulthies, J. Tobin, S. Wise, J. Wanbaugh, O. Waterman, J. Williams, H. Zuber, J. Shannahan.
Minim Department.
H. Faxon, C. Walsh, A. Koch, F. Carlin, E. Raymond, C. Faxon, J. O’Meara, E. Cleary, J. Cooney, W. O’Hara, T. Hooley.	J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
Class Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory; fourth week, Music, Fine Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director or Studies.]
FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1873.
Collegiate Department—Senior Class.
E. B. Gambee, D. J. Hogan, P. J. O’Connell, T. J. Dundon, M. M. Foote, J. D. McCormick.
Junior Class.
T. P. White.
Sophomore Class.
W. J. Clarke, D. E. Maloney, R. Staley, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, E. J. McLaughlin.
Freshman Class.
E. G. Graves, C. Walter, T. J. Murphy, J. E. Hogan, H. W. Walker, C. Berdel, E. S. Monahan, T._Noel, M. Bastarache, P. O’Meara, C. M. Proctor, F. Devoto, J. E. Kelly, J. J. Gillen, B. L. Dorsey, J. Caren.
Law Class.
E. McSweeney, J. Ney, P. J. O’Connell. J. H. Trimble.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, March 18, 1873.
The “ General View of Mathematics ” given by Professor Stace in his lecture last Wednesday presented that science in a highly attractive light.
On the 14th Mr. Murdock gave the young ladies the benefit of listening for two hours to his inimitable readings. The selections were very fine.
Ou Sunday last “ The Merry Chimes” gave forth a stirring peal. Both the original and selected articles were good.
The sprightly Entertainment gotten up by the Graduates and First Seniors in honor of St. Patrick’s Day afforded much pleasure to the young folks, for during this season they are eager to find something to break the quiet routine.
ARRIVALS.
Miss Anna Crane,
“ Maggie Walker, “ Julia Walker,
Chicago, Illinois.
Helena, Montana Territozy.
Helena, Montana Territory.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor, (Sr. Dep’t.), March 16,1873.
Misses Katie Zell, Mary Cochrane, Alice Shea, Katie Haymond, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Minnie Lange, Aline Todd, Mary Kearney, Annie M. Clarke, Nellie Gross, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Rosemary Green, Lillie West, Mary Comer, Libbie Black, Millie Ward, Bay Reynolds, Mary Wicker, Bridget Grace, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church, Julia Voorhees, Josephine Locke, Lodina Dragoo, Esther Boyce, 8. Shipley, Amelia Keeline, Annie T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, Jennie Noonan, Agatha St. Clair, Addie Hambleton, Nellie Foote, Hanna McMahon, Louisa Beckman, Annie Ried, Mary A. Roberts, Emma Wade, Rebecca Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, Flora Rush,

4
THESCHOLASTIC.	223
Mary Quill, Emma Ives, Addie -Roberts, Mary McGuire, Maria Pinney, S. Chenoweth, Mary White, L. Forrester, Rose Klar, Juanna Valdez, Romualda Manzanares, Lizzie Scheiber, Fannie Snouffer, Tillie Heckman, Kittie Isman, Nora McMahon, Henrietta Miller, Nellie Hinkston, Mary E. Black, Rose McKeever, Mary Kane, Bell Turnbull, Cora Lee.
HONORABLYaMENTIONED IN STUDIES.
DRAWING.
Crayon Work.—Misses K. Young, R. Devoto, S. Shipley.
Second Division, First Class Drawing—Miss L. Wein-reich.
Second Class—Misses D. Simonds, J. Voorhees, Mary Black, N. McEwen, L. Penniman.
Second Division—Misses N. McAuliffe, S. Smith, C. Smith, E. Orton, M. Booth.
OIL PAINTING.
Misses L. Black, B. Reynolds, E. Wade, B. Wade, A. Keeline, L. Pfeiffer, R. Woolman, L. Forrester, N. McMahon.
WATER-COLOR PAINTING.
Misses S. Chenoweth, A. Gollhardt.
FRENCH.
First Class—Misses J. Kearney, A. Clarke, N. Gross, M. Cochrane, R. Spiers, L. West, L. Dent.
Second Class — Misses M. Comer, A. Church, M. E. Roberts, A. Roberts, A. Reid, L. Tinsley.
GERMAN.
First Class—Misses K. Zell, M. Comer, L. Pfeiffer.
Second Class—L. Scheiber, L. Weinreich, A. Gollhardt, N. Finley, K. Schmidt.
Third Class—Misses R. Marr, E. Richardson, A. Shea, B. Crowley, L. Daly, M. Martin, E. Hassler.
Latin—L. King.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
First Class—E. Plamondon, K. Young.
Second Division—L. Black, R. Spiers.
Second Class—A. Gollhardt, E. Quinlan, A. Todd.
Second Division—M. Lassen, J. Noonan, N. McEwen.
’ Third Class—M. Ward, L. Beckman, A. Clarke, H. McMahon, N. Foote, A. Roberts, N. Gross, I. Wilder, S. Shipley, A. Smith, N. Heedy.
Second Division—M. Comer, A. Reid, M. Koch, K. Zell, M. Letourneau, A. St. Clair, M. Lange, R. Devoto.
Fourth Class—M. Kearney, D. Simonds, L. King, M. McGuire, L. Daly, A. Shea, E. Ives, A. Keeline, J. Kearney.
Second Division—G. Kelly, M. Cochrane.
Fifth Class—K. Schmidt, M. Hepp, L. Tinsley, R. Rosesco, L. McKinnon, L. James, E. Haggarty, A. Stockton, E. Boyce, K. Finley, F. Snouffer, M. Pinney, B. Johnson, K. Haymond, A. Mast, M. Brown.
Second Division—B. Turnbull, T. Schulte, M. Faxon, A. Walker, M. Booth.
Sixth Class—M. Brown, R. Hooley, A. Allen, M. Black, M. Hildreth, K. Wickham, A. Lloyd, A. Conahan, L. Lilly, J. Locke, M. Carlin.
Second Division—N. McAuliffe, C. Germain, J. Voorhees, R. Marr, M. E. Roberts.	-
Seventh Class—C. Smith, S. Smith, K. Casey, M. Dillon, L. Niel, Miss Crane, K. Hector, R. Klar, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, N. Vigil, E. Jackson, E. Drake.
Eighth Class—E. Lange, L. Walsh, B. Quan, K. Follmer, E. Hassler, N. O’Meara.
Ninth Class—T. Cronin, E. Lappin, K. Bolton.
Tenth Class—J. Tallman, M. DeLong, A. Green, K. Lloyd.
Harp—E. Plamondon, M. Wicker.
Guitar—S. Shipley, L. Dragoo. exercises.
M. Heckman, N. McEwen, J. Kearney, R. Spiers, F. Snouffer, B. Grace, J. Locke, A. Gollhardt, S. Chenoweth, L. Walsh. B. Quan, L. Pfeiffer, M. Hepp.
VOCAL MUSIC.
First Class—L. West.	■
Second Division—M. Ward, R. Devoto, M. Prince, L. Black, E. Haggarty.
Second Class—M. Wicker, A. Shea, J. Noonan, N. Langdon, A. Gollhardt.
Second Division—N. Foote, T. Heckman, M. Letourneau, L. James, L. Beckman, S. Shipley, J. Locke.
Third Class—M. Kearney, J. Kearney, E. Quinlan, M. McGuire, L. Daly, H. McMahon, R. Marr, A. Reid, M. Faxon, 8. and C. Smith.
Second Division—B. Grace, G Kaeseburg, M. Comer, K. Schmidt, A. Lloyd, N. McMahon, S. Chenoweth.
General Class—Alice Lynch, S. Lynch, A. Walsh, M. Walsh, M. Walsh, M. Carlin, M. Booth, E. Jackson. N. O’Meara, M. Hildreth.
Tablet of Honor (Jr. Dep’t), March 18,1873.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, K. Joyce, M. Faxon, L. Tinsley, B. Quan, T. Schulte, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch, N. Vigil, E. Orton, S. Lilly, M. Carlin, M. Brown, M. Reynolds, M. Ewing, M. Hildreth, M. Walsh, J. and M. Thompson, K. Schmidt, L. Schuerle, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, A. Noel, E. Lang, K. Lloyd, E Lappin, M. DeLong, R. Hooley, C. Walker, A. Koch, K. Follmer, C. Smith, A. Paulsen, E. Jackson, K. Hector, A. Ewing, D. Allen, E. Hassler, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, M. Kaeseberg, K. Bolton, J. Tailman.
Honorably Mentioned in the
Second Senior Class—E. Richardson, A. Smith.
Third Senior Class—K. Joyce.
. First Preparatory Class — L. Tinsley, M. Faxon, A. Walsh.
Second Preparatory Class—B. Quan, T. Schulte, M. Hepp, M. Martin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch, N. Vigil.
Third Preparatory Class—E. Orton, S. Lilly.
Junior Preparatory Class—M. Carlin, M. Brown, M.
Ewing, M. Reynolds.	•
First Junior Class—N. O’Meara, M. Hildreth, M. Walsh, J. and M. Thompson, K. Schmidt, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, A. Burney, E. Lang, K. Lloyd, E. Lappin, M. DeLong, R. Hooley, 0. Walker, K. Follmer, 0. Smith.
Second Junior Class—E. Jackson, K. Hector, A. Ewing, D. Allen, E. Hassler, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, M. Ware, M. Kaeseberg.
Third Junior Class—A. Green, J. Tailman, N. Lloyd.
SEEDS, PLANTS, TREES, PREPAID BY MAIL.
MY new-priced descriptive Catalogue of Choice Flower and Garden’ Seeds, 25 sorts of either for §1; new and choice varieties of Fruit and Ornamental Trees, Shrubs, Evergreens, Koses, Grapes, Lilies, Small Fruits, House and Border Plants and Bulbs; one-year Grafted Fruit Trees for mailing; Fruit Stocks of all kinds; Hedge Plants, etc.; the most complete assortment in the country, will be sent gratis to any plain address, with P. O. Box. True Cape Cod Cranberry for upland or lowland, §6 per 1,000; SI per 100; prepaid by mail. Trade List to dealers. Seeds on Commission. Agents wanted.	.
B. M. WATSON, Old Colony Nurseries and Seed Warehouse, Plymouth, Massachusetts. Established 1842.
•	n27t6

r
224
THE SCHOLASTIC.
®fce "Ave Stoma,”
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.	,
L. 8. & M. S. RAILWAY.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.

TERMS:
Life subscription, $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
Per 5 years, $10, in advance.
for 2 years $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.
Single copies, 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $25, in advance.	•
To dabs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Ma-ria for $45, in advance.	'
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria for $50, in advance.
The postage of the Ave Mahia is but five cents, a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame, Indiana,
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
WRIT-TWO PAGES EVERY MONTH. $1,00	AJCNUM.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
SIU Llnuttg
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar to the Editor,
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NILES I SOUTH BEND RR.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles,	-	6.50	a.m.	Arrive	South Bend,	-	7 30 a.m
“	9.35	a.m.	“	“	10.15	a.m
“	4.50	p.m.	“	“	5.30	p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.40 a.m. | Arrive Niles, - -	- 9.20 a.m
“	. “	11.45 a.m. I “	12 25 p.m
“	“	6.30 p.m. I	“	• 7.10 p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. | Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m “	“	5.30 p.m. I	“	6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
DNIVEESITY OF N0TEE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States. -
TERMS:
_ Matriculation Feo, -	--	--	--	-	$5 00
‘ Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition f Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, ‘ -	- 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	---	-	-	12	50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	--	10	00
Use ofViolin, -------	---	-	2	00
Drawing, -	-	-	--	--	--	--	- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus,	-	-	-	-	5	00
Graduation Fee—Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra, ----------	35 00
.Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices:
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on the 1st of February.	■
For farther particulars, address
Bev. A. LEMONNIBH, C.S.C.,
President.
rpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.	.
M	»	12.25 p.	m.
“	“	9.15 p.	m.
“	“	12 35 a. m.
“	“	8.20 p.	m.
“	“	4.35 p.	m.
EAST.	"
Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a. m “	“	4.05 a. m
“	■ “	1.35 p. m
“	5.30 p. m
Runs to Elkhart.
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m.
“	“	2 55 a. m.
“	“	5.00 a. m.
“	“	[605 p	m.
“	“	6.37 a.	in.
“	“	8.20 a.	m.
WEST.	-
Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m
*•	- “	6.50 a. m
“	“	8.20 a.	m
“	“	9.40 p.	in
“	“	10.30 a.	m
[“	“	12.30 p.	m
i
Making connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.	’	’
X®* Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes aster than South Bond time.	' • '
J. H. DEVEREUX, General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE, Genera] Superintendent, Cleveland,	’
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
3 W. Cary, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.	-
J, M. Tolchabd, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING. To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going Nobth—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.;.8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
Going South—Express passenger,8.58a.m.; 10.46a.ml; 9.25p.m.
Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a.m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
1
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line
(SWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Biidge, as follows:	.

St. Louis and. Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via
Jacksonville, Hl., and Louisi-
"• ana, Mo. '	■ '	■
Wenona. Lacon and Washington
Express (Western Division) Joliet Accommodation,	.
St. Louis and Springfield Night
Express, via Main Line, St. Louis and Springfield Lightning .
Express, via Main Line, and ’ ' also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, BL, and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE. -
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
♦	9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*	9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*	4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
+9:00 p.m. S7:15 a.m’.
±9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
♦ Except. Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. + Except Saturday. I Dail y. § Except. Monday.	‘
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Gars on all day Trains. .
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLEN, "
Gen‘1 Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TBA0K EAILB0AD.

PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New .	York without Change.	’
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m 1 Arrives.at New York. 11 30 a; m*
2d train . “	“	5.15 p. m I	“	“	' 6.41 a. m*
3rd train • “	-l	9.00 p. m |	“	“	11.30 p. m* "
Connections at Crestline with trains North and- South, and at Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J'. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh. '
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. _
_F. R. MYERS. Gen’l Pass.and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.	. .	2
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass't Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago. ;
* Second day. *	‘	r