PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I. Notre Dame University, Nov. 33, 1867. No. 12.
'Additional List of Students of Kotre Dame,
NOVEMBER 19.
Frank Heitman, Cincinnati, Ohio.
NOVEMBER 21.
R. Callaghan,	Huntington, Indiana.
John Roberton Duvall, Chicago, Illinois.
Frederick M. Duvall,	“	“
Wm. P. Duvall,	“	“
Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Ivo Ruddeke, W. Hayden, J. Harrison, J. Mader, D. Maley, W. McWhirt, T. O’Mahoney, W. Rhodes, J. Vocke and J. W. Watts.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Dooley, C. Dodge, E. Lafferty, H. Moody, E. Morancy, C. Sage, W. Trout, O. Walker, E. Walker and P. Whyte.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Daniel Cooney, Eddie De Groot, Charles P. Toll, George D. Tobin, Willie Trussell, and Edwin Wile.
HONORABLE MENTION
Second Greek.— James O’Reilly.
Third Greek.—For diligence and improvement and also for gentlemanly deportment, William Walker and William McClane.
Fourth Greek.—John Fitzharris and Charles Hibben.
Fifth Greek.—William Waldo, J. Campbell and G. Dixon.
Fourth Greek, Second Division.—John McHugh, (Junior.)
First Latin.—R. Clark, J. B. Hill, J. Dickenson and H. Eisenman.
First Latin Class, 2d Division.—J. Fitzharris, J. Kevenev and J. Grogan.
Third Latin.—Charles Hibben.
Fourth Latin.—For diligence and improvement, George Dixon, John Rogers,.Frank Guth
rie, William Waldo and M. Mahony. For gentlemanly deportment, James Edwards, John. Rogers, Frank Guthrie, William Waldo,-Arthur Murphy, George Dixon, John Skelly and M. Mahony.
Fifth Latin.—William Spalding, Mark Will, Jerome Campbell and Denis Clarke.
Sixth Latin.—J. B. Gaunt, W. B. Clarke. B. Heffernan and Joseph Hull.
Third French Class.—R. G. Heffernan, H. P. Morancy, F. Nicholas, R. Clark, J. Rogers, Otis Walker and Iff. Dupuis.
For Progress and Good Conduct.—F. Guthrie, T. Dupuis and E. Donhoff.
The following students of the Second German Class, deserve honorable mention:
Messrs. Asa Wetherbee, Robert Staley, Frank Ingersoll, Rufus McCarthy, Charles Hildebrand, John Broderick and Edward Callahan.
First English Grammar, Senior.—Messrs R. A. Brown, H. D. Rodman, C. Gibbons, James Monroe, J. B. Hill, J. D. McCormack, T. O’Mahony,- Otis Walker, D. Wile, D. Egan and Jam°s Sutherland.
First English Grammar, Junior.—F. Ingersoll, E. Walker, M. Dupuis, J. Alber, W. Reynolds and J. Broderick.
Fourth Grammar, Junior—Week ending Nov. Sth —The following students missed no questions this week: Thomas Arrington, Charles Hutchings, John Hurly, Alvin Mitchell, John O’Neill, John Shannon, Charles Dixon, Vincent Hackman, and Jerome Crevoisier. Several others, and among them some of the best- in the class, missed only once; but the strictness of the rule will not allow them to be mentioned, though they well deserve ‘ that honor, and will no doubt have it next week.
Weekending Nov. 15th.—The following students are deserving of honorable mention for progress and good conduct:
Thomas Arrington, Austin Cabel, J. Hutchings, John Hurley, Alvin Mitchell, E. Lafferty, John O’Neill, John Shannon, James Wilson and Charles Dixon.
Second Algebra.—Benton H. Thomas.
Third Arithmetic.—Robert A Pinkerton.
H
I- 1
I
2	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
First Arithmetic.—James Sutherland, C. Hildebrand, Louis Botto, E. Callahan, F. Nicholas, P. "White, D. Egan and H. P. Morancy.
The Second Arithmetic, Junior.—The competition in this class resulted in . favor of the Newtonians, under their new and able leader, W. Small. We give the result of the competition :
In Theory, the Newtonians seven points, the Euclids but two; in Practice, the Euclids eleven, the Newtonians eight. Among those who distinguished themselves in theory, may be mentioned: F. P. Dwyer, Frank Clerget and H. Moody, of the Newtonians; R. Staley and L. Willson, of the Euclids. In Practice: Capt. F. Ingersoll, L. Gar-cin, A. Wetherbee, B. Heffernan, T. Watson, of the Euclids. Capt. Wm. Small, J. Crowley, J. Page and Philip Cochrane, of the Newtonians. Medard Dupuis of the same division deserves honorable mention in both Theory and Practice.
Secundus.
.	No. 13 Broad Avenue, )
Commercial Row. f
Mr. Editor.—Business in the commercial line during the past ten days, has been unusually brisk. The week opened by the organizing of fifty-one substantial firms, investing respectively something less than a million capital. Large dry-goods purchases were made from well-known houses in New York, Philadelphia and Baltimore. Later in the week, over one thousand shares of the St. Joseph Railroad Company were bought, which stock is now in great demand. Gold stands 138^, with prospects of decline. University Bank notes @ par. Honorable, among the various firms, as being worthy special commendation, may be mentioned, the following:
D. J. Wile & Co.; Hoffman, Reswick & Sanders ; Sage & Moody; Winterbotham & Nohe; Brown, O’Reilly, & Clark; Watts, Wood & Co.; Denis Maley & Co.; Morancy & Co.; -Rhodes & Bro.; Kelly, Crapser & Akin; Stace & Jennings; Spellman, O’Donnell, Keeler & Alber; Ivo Bud-deke & Co.	X.
First Penmanship, Senior.—Among those who deserve mention for their close application and consequent progress in this class, are: A. Hoffmann, H. C. Boardman, W. C. Nelson, F. Crapser, J. Vocke, ,J Downing, J. H. Le Compte, M. S. Ryan, D. A. Clarke, W. McWhirt, Thomas O’Mahoney, W. P. Weaver, L. Reswick, J. Edwards, and B. A. Granger.
Second Penmanship, Senior.—For Improvement,
H. Bird, Jno. Duffy, Jno. C. Dolan, F. W. Pape, John Gibbons, Jos. Harrison, S. R. Anson, Porter Rhodes and James B. Roberts.
Second Penmanship, Senior.—For Proficiency, Jno. Flanigan, R. W. Short, Charles Fuhrer, A. B. White, Wm. Rhodes, J. J. Metzger, R. S. Akin, Jno. Alber, Jno. Moon, Robert Pinkerton, M. 0. Rees, Francis Jennings and H. B. Keeler. .
Pertmanship, Junior Department.—In the judgment which we are requested to pass upon the specimens just received from this department, we cannot refrain from bestowing that praise and encouragement which the Juniors truly merit. After a deliberate and impartial examination of these examples, with those formerly written, we have selected those which evince marked improvement, and deserve honorable mention.
Proficiency.—Arthur Murphy, William Trout, W. B. Clarke, L. Wilson, J. J. Raggio, C. Maran-tette, H. Benoist. G. W. Arbuthnot, J. W. Coppinger, W. Reynolds, F. Kaiser, Jr., D. Egan, M. Brannock, J. Dodge, J. Ryan, C. Hildebrand, G. W. Fletcher, E. Benoist and W. Smith.
Neatness.—J. A. Nohe, C. Tierney, B. Heffernan, W. Dodge, Roscoe Broughton, J. J. Willson, H. Falkenbach, James Dooley; J. Smeltz, G. W. Morgan, H. Morgan, J. Shannon, D. S. Bell,' E. Lafferty, James McGuire, F. Nichols, J. W. Link, C. J. Duffy and James Dinnen.
First Orthography.—Mark Will, D. Maley, J. Vocke, W. B. Wallace, j. Mader and Peter Barrett.
In the Minim Department the most worthy of notice for improvement are as follows:
First Glass.—George W. Trussell, George Lyons and Ernest Lyons.
Second Glass.—John Bracken, E. Haydel and Frank "Hunt.
Third Glass.—F. Mier and E. Knight.
Fourth Class.—W. Byrnes, JohnChandonai, and W. Stewart.
------
To Correspondents.
The Committee that examine the communications sent to The Scholastic Year, will hereafter pay no attention to articles written with pencil, nor to articles not signed by the real name of the writer.
The observations of A. have been read attentively and acted upon as far as in our judgment we have thought proper to do.
Observer: as no real name is given, we decline publishing your article.	’
T. B. Do not be so obstreperous.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	3
CORRESPONDENCE.
Saint JIary’s Academy, ) Nov. 18, 18G7. J arrivals.
Nod. 1277l—Aliss Sarah Gleeson, Chicago, Hl.
Nov. 13z7i.—Miss Mary E. Wade, New Carlisle, Indiana.
Nov. ^th.—Misses M. and L. Cumerford, Chicago, Illinois.
TABLES OF HONOR.
Senior Department.—Misses Florence Alspaugb, K. Doran, BL Livingstone, Anna Machin, Mary Carraher, Ida Runnals, M. & N. Simms, Susan Evans, K. Jarvis, Rose Joslin, Julia Gittings.
Junior Department.—Misses M. Toberty, Laura Shultz, M. Shirland, Julia & Margaret Walker, Margaret O’Meara, Frances- Saunders, Amelia & Anna Boyles, C. North.
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Class.—Misses C. & L. Plimpton. Mary Tripp, Mary Toomey, Imogene Schutt, H. Brooks, Lula Murray.
First Senior Class.—Misses L. & L. Tong, Nora Maher, Emma Longsdorf, Catharine Cunnea, Laura Lewis, Mary Van Patten, Agnes Ewing, M. Ball, Eunice Crouch.
Second Senior Class.—Misses S. Rooney, Alice Cormody, C. Bernard, Anna Cunnea, L. Lyons Alice Radin, K. Young, Ellen Camp, Agnes Mulhall, Mary & Lilly Chanteau, Anna Adams, Rosana Mukautz, F. North, Ellen Ewing, Virginia Brown, Mary Morrill, Mary Miller, Minerva Ryan, Frances Gittings, Anastasia Darcy, Emma Pickett, Mary Drulimer, H. Lill, Josephine Service.
Third Senior Class.—Misses Georgiana & Sarah Blakeslee, N. Ogle, R. Rettig, Amanda Sissons, EEmma Ranstead, L. Ryan, Sarah Shipley, N. Thompson, E. Miller, Josephine Grieshop, K. Carpenter, Matilda Lafferty, Sarah Miller, Christina Thompson, Winifred Corby, Mary Claffey, Emma Conan, Frances Grant, Arvada Bragg, Ida Reshbre, Margaret Keenan, Clara Foote, Emma Ruger, L. McKenney, H. Niel.
First Intermediate Class.—Misses Clara Ward, Teresa Stapleton, Anna Tarrant, E. Cooney, Augusta Sturgis,- S. Bicknell, Rose Gittings, Anna Belle Acker, Mary Rooney, Harriet Thompson.
Second Intermediate Class.—Miss L. Niel.
First Junior Class.—Misses M. Sissons, A. Metzger.
Second Junior Class.—Miss A. Byrnes.
GENIUS. AN ALLEGORY.
I was transported in my dream to an extended plain, for what purpose I knew not. I gazed eagerly to the right and left, but saw nothing, save trees covered with snow and ice. Suddenly the earth before me rose, and soon became a lofty mountain, covered with verdure, except a few spots of uncultivated ground, overgrown with briers and thistles.
This mountain was called “Education.” I looked towards the foot of the mountain, and beheld a little winged boy laboring to reach the summit. His name was Genius, and he was accompanied by a grey-headed man, whose name was Time, and whb seemed bent upon a chase with the little fellow. Genius would some times forget himself, and old Time, with his steady pace, would get before him; but whe^ Genius once caught sight of him, he would “ take wing,” and several times I thought he would actually out-step old Time himself, who was very swiftfooted.
He had not'proceeded far when a young Prince, named Ambition, with a drawn sword in his hand, approached and presented it as a weapon to overcome all obstacles. Ambition passed on his way, but before he was out of sight Genius was assailed by a ruffian whose name was Disappointment. The hideous frown and rude manner of this foe brought a tear to the child’s snowy lid, for he feared he could never reach the mountain top; but Courage, a handsome youth, approached him, and, laughing, brushed away the tear and bade him use the weapon presented by Ambition. Genius laughed and obeyed, and was never troubled by this foe again.
On one side of his path was a marble temple dedicated to Originality, and though it was difficult to gain access to its richly decorated halls, on account of the many pretenders and impostors who had tried to gain admission, Genius found not the slightest impediment, as all the inmates of the grand temple recognized him at once as worthy of their confidence. Here Nature was his chief study, and it was a beautiful sight to see how the heart of the child expanded as he drank in the grateful nectar of truth; but Ambition again appeared and told him not to pause here, for he must battle with the rage of the elements before he could gain his distinction. --
Genius, with his heart true to Nature, again set out, but had hardly left the temple before Fear, a bitter enemy of Originality, attacked him, while Contempt and Ridicule were hastening
■
4	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
with, their keenest weapons to the assistance of their ever faithful servant. Genius raised the sword of Ambition, and instantly conquered them.
But a short distance from the scene of this exploit, Genius beheld a long, low building. Curiosity appeared and prompted him to enter. Immediately the door was opened by a tall, ghostly figure, with sunken eyes and parched lips, who called himself Melancholy. Genius was suddenly drawn in, and the door closely bolted. He swooned and let the sword of Ambition drop, and when he became conscious, he beheld the hideous form of Despair bending over him, and his case seemed hopeless indeed, but soon he saw Ambition, Health and Courage coming swiftly towards the building. They broke in at the window, raised Genius from the floor and destroyed the buildirij and all its malicious inmates.
Genius had now gone half his destined journey, and instead of growing fatigued, he became stronger, more healthy and beautiful. When he had nearly arrived at the summit of the mountain where he was to be rewarded for his perseverance, he was met by Honor, Prosperity, Affec-- tion and Admiration, bearing a golden litter and inviting Genius to be carried upon it to the summit. He complied, and soon found himself seated in the Temple of Fame, surrounded by those who had preceded him. Time invited him to a grove called Holy Solitude, where Gratitude and Affection crowned him with an everlasting wreath of remembrance. Genius found the grove of Holy Solitude so beautiful that he decided to remain . there till Time should give place to Eternity.
That grove was a fit place for him. There he was visited by Celestial Graces, who roamed at large with his angelic companion, Contemplation; then Hope,—spiritual Hope,—bowed and breathed around him an atmosphere of sublime beauty, while Charity and Virtue blessed him as a good and faithful servant; then Fame pro' ’ nounced the name of Genius immortal. .
St. Mary’s, Nov. 18th.
St. Joseph’s Academy, )
South Bend, Ind., Nov. 21,1867. (
The following are the pupils of the several classes who deserve mention:
Second Senior.—Misses L. Defrees and J. Dice.
Third Senior.—Misses M. Hooper and C. Rock-stroh.
German Class, First Division.—J. Duey and - A. Massey.
Second Division.—M. Kownsman and M. Bower.
First Intermediate Class.—M. Foster and M.
Deming.	'
Second Intermediate Class.—B. Boloney and M. Knoblock.
First Junior Class.—M. Byer and A. Defrees.
Second ' Junior Class.—M. Vanninkle and E.
Kiingle.
o
Third Junior Class.—M. Myers and M. Measel.
Idinim Department.—E. Gillen and C. Marsh.
------
Academy of the Assumption, £ ’ Nov. 17, 1867. J
Enclosed are the names of our pupils deserving honorable mention, for excellence of conduct and competition in classes.
Conduct, Senior Class.—Misses R. Flannigan and J. Coquillard.
Junior Class.—Louisa Perry and Clara Weston.
Competition in Gammar, Division A.—J. Coquil-lafd and M. Higgins.
Divisioti D.—L. Tumock, K. Flannigan and
Mary J. Deity. ,
Junior, Arithmetic Class, Division A.—Barbara Karl, M. Donohoe and Kate Tomlinson.
Division B.—Louisa Perry, C. Kingel and Clara Weston. *
Saint Angela’s Academy, Morris, Illinois.
On Friday Nov. 15th, the following young ladies received testimonials of merit from the Rev. Pastors: ’
Graduating Class.—Misses Lizzie Maguire, Lois Willard, Carrie Millar, Kate Murrin, Mary Nowlan and Jennie Hynde.
First and Second Classes.—Misses Sophronia Cook, Mary Philvin, Mary Murrin, Emma Wineman, Alice Murphy, Helen Kelly, Charlotte Irving, Annie Cannon, Mary Egan, Alice Williams, Katie Laughlin, Florence Berney, Jennie Lynch, Emma Sargeant, Mary Canavan and Mary Mo-lowney.
Fearing to trespass too far on the columns of The Scholastic Year, we defer sending the names in the Third and Fourth Primary Classes.
A. C.
Philodemic. _
Mu. Editor : The Philodemic had their tenth regular debate last Tuesday evening, the subject for discussion being:	‘
Resolved, That the farmer is more beneficial to society than the mechanic. '
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
5
The affirmative was sustained by Messrs. E. S. Pillars and H. D. Rodman, the negative was supported by Messrs. B. H. Thomas and S. L. Moore.
The Rev. President after passing a few remarks on the relative merits and demerits of the arguments, decided in favor of the affirmative.
At the close of the debate, Messrs. S. L. Moore and B H. Thomas entertained the society with declamations, which were well received ; Mr. M. Horgan read an interesting story of Irish character, which produced considerable amusement.
The prospectus of the Two-Penny Gazette was read. This is the name of a paper lately established by the Two-Penny Club, intended for circulation among the members of the society.
St. Edward’s Literary.
On last Tuesday evening, the question: Ue-solved, That the Irish are justified in rebelling against England; was discussed on the affirmative by Messrs. Fitzharris and Gibbon, and on the negative by Messrs. Keeler-and Peterson.
On Wednesday morning the usual business meeting -was held, the rules for the reading-room were read by the President, and adopted.
J.M.
------------------ ■
Editor Scholastic Year: The Saint Cecilia Philomathean Association is now thoroughly organized, and has been holding its meetings for some time, but its members, owing to the preparations for the play which they intend to put on the stage soon, have not been able to carry out all the purposes for which the Society "was organized. However, at their last regular meeting, held November 17, several pieces were declaimed by Masters John Flanigan, James Page, David Wile and Otis Walker. The first debate of the Society will be held after the play. It is understood that the Society are to have debates and essays ugu-larly ; also a mock court. We will let you know, from time to time, of any events which occur in the Society, that may be of interest to our friends.
John Broderick, - -	Cor. Sec’y.
-------
The Skating Club have built a very comfortable looking house for themselves on the side of the lower lake, in anticipation of the cutting winds that will sweep over the lakes in a short time; at present, there is no sign of a freeze.
■	The Apple.
There exists in the Philodemic society, a generous and liberal body, known as the Two Penny Club ; now, once upon a time, there belonged to the same Philodemic society a sapient and selfsatisfied silver-voiced Person, who happened upon the club during one of its meetings, and after bothering the members of this select organization, by importuning the honorable gentlemen with trivial questions, to show his scorn and contempt for the club he elevated the pliable end of his nose eight degrees above its usual hight, and asked a non-member if he belonged to this insignificant and contemptible club. Now, the gentleman questioned answered in the negative, and this vilifying and insulting Person gave him, for his prudence and good sense, a mellow apple, produced from one of his enormous coat-tail pockets; thereby showing disrespect and irreverence, (which cannot be tolerated by its spirited members,) to the most beneficial society in college.
Two-Penny Club.
-----
The first meeting of the Notre Dame Skating Club -was held Wednesday evening, at 7 P. M. After the meeting was called to order, Mr. Dunlap was elected Chairman and Mr. Keveney Secretary Pro tern.
The following officers were unanimously elected.
Director—Brother Urban.
President—M. C. Peterson.
Vice-President—W.’B. Smith. Recording Secretary—W. Knights. Corresponding Secretary—N. S. Wood. Treasurer—C. K. Hibben.
R. Pinkerton,'
M. S. Ryan, S. R. Anson,’ W. Knights,
- ITanagers.
Notre Dame, Nov. 30,1867.
Mr. Editor : The other day, as I was strolling along the river bank, down in the bottoms, I noticed that a fire had been recently lighted in the forking of two fine trees, which will probably never recover from the scorching. The Juniors had a picnic there on last Wednesday—and likely—although the season is far advanced— some of them who are batrachophagously inclined, having captured their croaking prey, made the fire and feasted after their own fashion. That’s right enough—but they should not be allowed
r
6	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
to destroy the already scarce trees that give beauty and shade to the favorite haunts of summer days. One venerable tree at the same place, a large sycamore, has already succumbed to the wanton treatment it has received at the hands of previous pic nickers, and it now lies a wreck on the shore where it has fallen. A hint through the “ Scholastic’’ will perhaps put an end to this insidious “Vandalism” and a word from the prefects would ensure safety of life and limb to the members of the groves.	Viator.
Fourth. Arithmetic (Junior.)
Mr. Editor: Another interesting battle was fought between the Archimedian and Copernican forces of this class, which proved to be of more moment and greater interest than the former, from the fact that they had prepared for it with more diligence and application. The result this time proved in favor of the Copernicans, who were the conquered party in the last struggle. The victory must be attributed to their new and able leader, Master Vincent Hackman, who, it appears, was that “ unpretending Copernican” mentioned in our last report as bping in the back ground only waiting for a fit opportunity to strike a fearful blow against the Archimedians. This great blow was ut last struck, under which the brave hearts of the Archimedians gave way, and victory decided in favor of Captain Hackman’s bold warriors. Some of the Archimedians fought well, especially Captain James McGinnis, who several times tried to rally his desponding comrades by showing them the example in the thickest part of the fight; but they had been too vigorously attacked even to take advantage of any chance afforded them; they were taken unawares, and all, more or less, wounded and unable to return to the conflict. Hereafter let them be on their guard still more, for fear another “ unpretending Copernican” appear even more powerful than the present one. Vincent Hackman. James McGinnis, Joseph Rumley, Eugene Benoist, James Ryan, Spencer McCurdy, Alvin Mitchell, Henry Morgan, J. H. O'Neill, and C. Hutchings, maybe noticed for good discipline and close attention to the rules of warfare during the engagement. .
Presentation.—The students had an extra half holiday last Friday. The occasion, or, as an old acquaintance of ours used to say whenever he could get a chance, the “ primary cause” of this breaking in suddenly, abruptly, and without premeditation on the regular course of classes, was the good spirits every body’was in over the presentation of a testimonial of regard and respect to Brother Urban, by the students of the Senior Department.	’
The Committee of Presentation was composed of Messrs. Peterson, of Chicago, and Edwards, of Toledo.
Mr. Peterson read the address, to which Brother Urban replied in a few words. The President of the college made a few remarks, expressing the pleasure he felt, not precisely at seeing the Brother the recipient of a gift from the students, but at the. good spirit and gentlemanly conduct
that the gift manifested; he was opposed to presentations, but in this case it would have been going altogether contrary to the well known wishes of the students to have objected to the presentation. He hoped, in conclusion,—after complimenting the Seniors,—that the same spirit of friendliness and good feeling would continue to subsist between Students, Prefects and Professors, until the end of the year; to be continued on in a warm, personal friendship through life, after the students had gone out into the wide world. [Cheers.]
J 0 U EIA L S .
Mr. Editor : I suppose there has never been a boy that could hold a pen in his baud and spell well—I don’t mean he should necessarily hold the pen in his hand to spell-well, but that he could do both, either simultaneously-or one-after-the-otherly—nor for that matter a girl either, though for them I frankly admit that I do not know; for it may .be that they do talk too much to---but I find I’m getting ahead of my proposition ; or rather that I’ve not stated it fairly and squarely; that before being well started lam “ mixed up,” though that need not surprise you, for I do not- pretend to be very clear whenever I get into compound sentences; they do branch out so luxuriantly that for the life of me I cannot, with comfort to myself and thorough satisfaction to my numerous intelligent readers, marshal the relatives and participles and other combining words in their proper places and order. “ Why do you write, then ?” I think I hear you say. My Journalistic friend, I would reply, if you were to propound such a preposterous query—my Journalistic friend, the literature of our beloved Land, would be lessened by ninety-nine hundredths, if nobody would write until he knew how to manage his own language correctly. So, pray, do not make any such insane objection, but allow me to make another attempt. To begin, then, where I left off, or rather to take a. fresh start; there never yet has been a boy able to write and spell that didn’t keep, or attempt to keep, a Journal during some part of his uneventful life. The great majority of boys have kept half a dozen, not at once, but successively, with intervals of several months or years between their spasmodic attempts of recording events to them important.
It is useless to recommend this custom of writing Journals; equally useless to say anything against it; all boys have the attack of it, just as


\
-/!\
, I
' \
z \
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	7
I
they do the measles and whooping-cough, and the sooner they get over it the better. But they should have it young, for if they escape it in their young days, they are sure to catch it when they grow older, and then the attack is always more dangerous.
College boys keep Journals—many of them do; we happened on one of them not long ago, and for the edification of our readers, we give some extracts therefrom, assuring the scrupulous, that they need have no fear of breach of confidence on our part in giving to the public eye what the writer probably meant for his own particular edi-catiqn.
Aug. 4th. Left heme by the 10 o’clock train; pa came to the Depo with me, gave me 50 cts. pkt.-mo—have now 6.35. Arrived at College at 4 P. 31. No boys except Bill and Tom and Ike, and some twenty new fellers.
5. Slept till breakfast time.
(We skip over vacation and come to)
Sept. 5. Classes commenced—have a lot of ’em.
“	8. Reported by prof, of gram.—no duty; thunder!
“	9. Got permission to go to Infirmary—because I was to
be reported from Arithmetic. Said I had toothache—had my mouth burnt with kreosote—bah !
“	10 Was put in detention for yesterday’s report: goin’to
infirmary don’t pay yet.
“	9. Got permisilon to go around the Lake—went to a
’	farm house for cider and apples—bully for me!
“ 10. Reported for detention—went to Infirmary—stomach out of order—had to take castor-oil—
“	11. Ilad to go to detention for yesterday, 250 lines—didn’t
finish,—sausage for breakfast—turkey for dinner. That mean feller Ike took the piece I had my eye on—Prof should serve each one—pudding—
The above is a matter-ot-fact Journal, and the writer seldom indulges in sentiment; he occasionally gives vent to his feeling by an exclamation.
At the end of the month, after having been 8 times to the Infirmary in 24 days, he makes this entry.
Sept. 27. Sworn off the Infirmary—don’t pay except in the morning: castor-oil for breakfast and Salts for dinner—and both for supper—stuff!
“	2S. Ilad a letter from pa—too full of morals.
Wherever mention of class is made after 1st of October, there are signs of marked improvement, and on the 29th of .October—the last entry is: “ beefsteak for breakfast; have too much to do to keep a Journal, too tough.”
And this brings me to the moral; people write Journals when they have nothing to do, or when they don’t do well what they have to do: when they do a great deal and do it well, they never have time to put it on paper in form of Journal. They may, once a week, or once a month, take a “ retrospective view” and throw off an account in a letter: and that is a sensible way of doing business, but letters will be spoken of next week.
The Trip to Niles.	,
On Wednesday, November 6th, the Notre Dame Cornet Band made an excursion, and visited the neighboring sovereignty of Michigan, making the flourishing city of Niles their culminating point. Three immense vehicles scarcely sufficed for the conveyance of their increased numbers, and the guests whom their politeness had prompted them to invite as participants in the excursion. The day was beautiful, for November in America seems laudably desirous of redeeming the bad name it has earned for itself in Europe. They made an early start, giving the College a parting salute with an hilarious burst of harmony, and followed by the cheers and good wishes of their fellow-students, who all assembled to witness their triumphant sortie. As they passed Prof. Howard’s residence on the Niles road, they honored him with a serenade, which he and his amiable family evidently appreciated as it deserved. The progress through Indiana and Michigan was enlivened by continual rousing strains, terpsichorean and martial, to the surprise and delight of the natives of that quiet, agricultural region, who were mostly engaged in the concluding labors of the year—(husking corn, &c.) Many were observed to pause, with their industrial implements suspended in the air, while they listened in rapt admiration to the soul-stirring sounds.
Civilization, in this district, is making rapid strides. Patent inventions are everywhere visible. The inhabitants are no longer addicted to the practice of pulling stumps with their teeth, and the chignon has begun to take a prominent position in feminine costume. A deviation was made in the usual route to Niles. The excursionists did not pass through Bertrand. The days of that unfortunate hamlet are unquestionably numbered. It is not like Shakspeare’s Hamlet—immortal.
On arrival at Niles one of the excursionists was so frantic with delight that he absolutely danced to a waltzing air that the band were then engaged in playing. The citizens appeared at the windows and doors, during the progress towards the Bond House; and afterwards, when the Band, having dismounted, paraded their streets in military array, they thronged the sidewalks. In the course of the day, the Band serenaded several of the principal citizens, and particularly the Mayor, who gave them in return a substantial proof of his appreciation of their merits. The dinner at the Bond House was quite a success, and a number of interesting speeches followed. Rev.'Father

8	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Lemonnier was called .upon first, but merely rose to say that he left the task of speech-making to others. Hr. Shakspeare, the editor of the Democratic organ of Berrien County, addressed the young .gentlemen in a strain of morality worthy of his distinguished namesake. But the speech of the day was that of Prof. McNally, which for sterling eloquence, happy illustration, true pathos, and magnificent polysyllabication, surpassed any thing of its size and age in this section, or thereabouts. Professor O’Neill’s instrumental music was subject to no stoppage in transitu, and the clear-toned echoes filled the dining room with melody. Prof. Lyons at length reminded the hilarious assembly that the sands of time were fast running out, and they arose from table. The appearance and gentlemanly deportment of the members of the Band were very much admired by the discriminating citizens of Niles, as several of them did not hesitate to express openly. On their homeward journey, the Band serenaded the Rev. Pastor of N.les, crossing the river in their wagons, by the new bridge. A pleasant journey home was the crowning pleasure of this happy occasion. ----------------------
The Musical Soiree. '
Yesterday evening w’e had the pleasure of attending a musical entertainment given in the large parlor, by the Philharmonic Society, under the direction of Prof. Corby, before a large and distinguished audience, consisting of the President and Vice-President of the University, the Rev. Clergymen and gentlemen of the Faculty, and the Thespian and St. Cecilia Philomathean Societies, all of whom seemed delighted with the exercises. The soiree commenced with what we were disposed at first to imagine was an ode to the Sun, in the Horatian style, or a so/emn commemoration of SoZomon in all his glory, but it turned out afterwards to be the £oZdier’s Dream. Whereupon we thought if soldiers have such dreams as that we are almost sorry we were n’t drafted. Other dulcet strains succeeded, whose names we cannot tell. One, in which the solo was taken by Master O’Neill, of the Minims, and of which the “ burden” (not a very oppressive one, apparently) was a certain “ Daisy Dean,” (probably a relative of Dean Swift’s,) elicited irrepressible applause. A cry of “ Fire!” then alarmed the nervous portion of the audience, but on its being ascertained to be a portion of -the performance, alarm gave way to the more noble sentiment
of admiration. Master D. J. Wile obligingly consented to gratify the audience with a little instrumental music, while the Philharmonics -were recovering breath after their exertions at the fire. The “ White Squall” was the finest piece of the evening. We have heard many squalls—white and otherwise, during the period of our short but eventful life, but we never heard any thing of the kind that gave us so much pleasure. Father Superior’s concluding remark? were expressive of the satisfaction felt by all in the evening’s entertainment, and the gratifying sensations we all have in possessing an association amongst- us which can, at any time, contribute to the most refined species of enjoyment. Before leaving, Prof. Coi by was unanimously called upon for u Finnegan’s Wake,” which he executed in his best and most expressive style. The audience at length, though reluctantly, separated, in the hope of enjoying many such pleasures in the course of the winter.	’	.
We have been given to understand that the Philharmonics will take a prominent part in the coming Exhibition, on Wednesday, when a larger audience will have an opportunity of forming an estimate of their merits. We forbear, therefore, all further notice for the present.	.
Our Rt. Rev. Bishop honored us with a short visit to-day, and would have remained longer had he not been called, by telegraph, to the neighboring city of Chicago, where he is to adminster Confirmation to-morrow. We regret to be obliged to state that the Right Rev. Prelate was suffering from a severe cold. We hope that in a short time he may enjoy his usual excellent and robust health.
—
Some days ago the Eagle escaped. Some think he merely stepped out with the intention of coming back in five minutes. Others, after waiting some days to make up their mind, have come to the conclusion that he didn’t intend coming back so soon. Others, again, admit that the conjecture of the first may be true, and think that the Eagle did not live up to his first intentions. At the present moment the apartments of the noble bird are to let, as the proprietors think the Eagle has chosen other quarters for the winter.
We understand.that the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society have generously extended an invitation to Mr.' Weston, the celebrated pedestrian, to attend their Exhibition on Wednesday evening.