I Notre Dame Scholastic.
r? -
Dlsce quasi semper vlcturusj vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 4, 1879.	Number 18.
Chansons Physiologiqu.es,
No. II.
THE STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL.
[This is La Fete aux Praises, of the Abbe Tirebouchon. Its peculiar charm lies in the fact that it not only describes the function of alimentation with a charming simplicity, but it serves also as a warning to the superfluously enthusiastic student not to display his newly acquired erudition at an unseasonable time. Observe that the paronomasia in the 7th stanza is one of those rare examples of this kind of wit which happen to be translatable.]
•	i.
A physiological student one day
Of strawberries went to partake, And finding himself in a company gay, He took the occasion a little display
Of his favorite science to make.
ii.
“How few do we find,” he began, “ that will pause, When luxuries luscious surround,
To reflect on the great alimentative laws, Which determine the course of what passes the jaws;
But let us, at least, be profound I
ni.
“ These berries, conveyed to the mouth, are designed By the teeth triturated to be,
And then they will pass, with saliva combined, Through the pharynx and down the oesophagus, mind!
To the stomach, as all will agree.
TV.
“ Now, let us examine what passes below, When the juices called gastric secreted
Therein ”—(Here the ladies all got up to go;
But he didn’t observe it, because he was so
Absorbed, till his task was completed.)
v.
“ These juices convert it to chyme, and it goes Through an aperture called the pylorus, Excepting the peptone, which soaks out and flows Bight into the veins, we are led to suppose,
For the walls of the vessels are porous.
VI.
“Now, the chyme passing through the pylorus, to wind Through the long duodenum begins,
Where the bile and the juice pancreatic we find, Make chyle of the chyme to their workings consigned,
And this chyle through the lacteals spins. ,
vn. •
“ Though a pun is offensive in many respects— An offence at which no one should smile—
Yet we scarcely can censure a mind that reflects That a change in the liquids is that which effects . The conversion of chyme into chyZe.” .
vm.
But here looking up for the laugh, with surprise He found himself left quite alone,
And he sighed as he added: “Alas! how unwise Are the multitude! Gossip, and fashions, and lies They relish; but if to instruct them one tries,
He might as well talk to a stone.”
John Paul Richter.
'That grand literary age which gave to Germany Lessing, Wieland, Goethe, Schiller, Herder, possessed also one who had not indeed the popularity of these illustrious writers, but yet who held a high place amongst the thinkers of the time. That man is Richter. He alone, it might be said, represents German genius in its fulness, in his mystical reveries and profound conceptions. It is not easy to read him, and to appreciate him as he deserves requires several readings and serious study. When a person takes up for the first time any of his writings, he seems to enter into one of those virgin forests where centurial trees block up his path, where the pendant liane, branches interlocked, and plants of all kinds, impede at every step the progress of the traveller. Such an aspect strikes the beholder with surprise. He hesitates to venture into the midst of such obstacles. But if this first difficulty is surmounted, if an advance is made into the irregular defiles of this profound solitude, soon astonishing beauties captivate at once the senses and the mind. Beyond the dense mass of trees are seen brilliant stars and waves of light that illumine the foliage. Amid the briars and brambles, beautiful flowers raise their heads, and the breeze that moves the slight branches of the arbutus, the insects that people the grass, the birds that fly beneath the shade, fill the air with their gentle murmurs, their cries and their concerts. There is a motion, a life of which no other place can give an idea,— a strange nature, which freely develops itself in its wonderful power without the conventional embellishments or the artificial finery of man. Such does Richter appear to us, and those who have learned to know his works will find this comparison by no means exaggerated. No writer has more spontaneity of movement, a bolder manner, a more singular fecundity. No poet has allied to such profound sentiment such capricious fantasy. •
John Paul Richter was born at Wiensidel, in 1763. His father died young, without property. His mother employed her little all in gaining him admission into the Gymnasium. When he finished his studies, he returned to her. There, in the single chamber of his home, whilst the good old lady turned the wheel or busied herself in household cares, the future author of “Titan,” seated before his desk, would read and study works of antiquity, and amass with indefati
278
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
gable ardor notes on all human sciences. In order to aid his mother in providing for the wants of life, he gathered around him some children to whom he gave, with his lofty spirit and tender imagination, instruction truly paternal. This occupation, conscientiously performed, brought him but a moderate salary. Money was scarce in the home of the philosopher, and could he by some lucky chance save a half-crown to buy a goose for Martinmas, there was a grand feast.
As a means of distraction from his duties of instruction and from his patient labors, Richter used to walk alone through the country, observing and studying everything that presented itself to his sight, from the insect that buzzed at his feet to the cloud that floated over his head. To him nature was a grand book, with which he gave no rest to his eyes and his thought; it inspired him with great veneration. “Enter,’’ he would say, “with a pure soul this vast temple. Bring no evil passion into this place where the flowers bloom and the birds sing. Hast thou the calm of the brook wherein the works of creation are reflected as in a mirror? Ah! would that my heart were as virgin pure as nature when it proceeds from the hands of its God! ”
Often during the summer he would carry his books and desk to a hill, and there labor in the midst of that nature whose image wrought upon him so lively a fascination, whose harmonies resounded so forcibly in his ears. He contemplated nature as a poet; he observed it as a savant. A blade of grass, a butterfly’s wing was to him a subject of scientific analysis and tender reveries. Whilst seriously studyingall that surrounded him, he studied himself even in the deepest secrets of bis conscience. He kept an exact record of his impressions, of the faults which he discerned and desired to correct, and the virtues which he endeavored to acquire. Once he wrot e in his diarjr: “ I rejoice to have overcome two faults—my inclination to be carried away in conversation, and to lose my temper when troubled by dust and gnats. Nothing renders us so indifferent to the little trials of life as the sentiment of moral amelioration.”
If his existence was passed almost in silent retreat, it was not the effect of gloomy misanthropy. On the contrary, his heart burned with charity and universal benevolence. The sight of a suffering old man, or of a poor laborer wandering through the highways, excited in him a tender sympathy; the sight of a child touched him sometimes to tears; even animals occupied a portion of his time and care. He had in his room several canary birds whom he had trained to descend from’their cage by means of a ladder to his table, and there hop around on his paper. In 1798 he espoused a young girl, Caroline Meyer, daughter of a Privy Councillor, at Berlin. This marriage, by which he had one son and two daughters, turned out happily in every respect. At this time he had aroused the attention of literary Germany by several of his works, among others, “ Greenland Lawsuits,” published in 1783; “ Selections from the Papers of the Devil,” and the “Invisible Lodge.” His writings and his marriage brought him better fortune. But he ever remained simple and modest—the mind devoted to. the seductions of study, the heart open to all the innocent joys of life. Once only he quit his retreat to see at Berlin and Weimar the men whose writings had so often aroused his enthusiasm; then he returned with love to the little enchanted world of his poetic dreams.
Towards the end of his life, the poor philosopher was attacked with a severe infirmity—he became blind. But he supported this misfortune with religious resignation; even
his gaiety appeared in nowise altered. The.beauties of nature revived in his soul; he contemplated them with the eyes of thought. He still instructed himself by having read to him his favorite authors, and he meditated with more calmness than ever.
On the 14th of November, 1823, he reclined upon his death bed. His wife brought him a garland of flowers, which had been sent him. He moved his fingers over those flowers, the memory of which still rejoiced his mind. “Ah! my beautiful flowers,” said he, “my dear flowers! ” Then he fell into a peaceful slumber. His wife and friends regarded, him with mute immobility. His countenance had a calm, serene expression; but the tears of his wife fell upon him without causing any movement. Little by little his respiration became less regular; a slight convulsion passed over his face. “It is death,” said the doctor.
Thus sweetly passed away from this world the man of genius, who knew so well how to harmonize his actions and his thoughts. His life and his works are a pure and deep instruction.
Ancient Irish. Bards. ,
It is indeed evident to every right-thinking mind that we, poor humanity, are never so much pleased as when speaking in some way or other of the achievements and glories of our ancestors. There seems to be a peculiar pride in each and every one of us,—natural, so to speak,— which springs up within us when anything is said, by no matter whom, regarding the honor, the fame, and the glory of our respective races. Now, if this be true, it ought to follow as a natural consequence that we be prone to exaggerate a little when speaking or writing in regard to the land that bore us; and if some of us say too much in praise of this land,—if we sometimes go a little beyond the mark by which prudent men are guided, there should, by all means, be some allowance made, particularly since with no bad intention or by no evil motive we say what is, however, true in itself, but a little exaggerated as to the circumstances. For if we but examine our constitution—that constitution which is common to all—we cannot help seeing how easy it is for each and everyone of us to say more than we really conceive; and, again, if we but reflect that everyone, no matter of what color or race, loves his owe country in proportion as he is a man, we will readily conclude that much allowance should be made in regard to those who without any evil intent say what maybe considered too much by the narrow-minded few in reference to the merits of their countries. Man was born to love: he must love something; he must love himself; he must love God, his Creator, above all things; he must love his parents, his family, etc. Now, how can he do all this on the supposition that there is no love in his heart for that land on which he first trod as a child, as a boy, as a man ? Its natural beauties stirred up his soul. He looked with loving eyes upon its mountains, its valleys, its streams, and its lakes; and the first conclusion—absolute, we may say—that perhaps he ever came to was that his home, his native soil, was the most beautiful, the most lovely, and the most charming on the face of the earth. This idea, however false or true it may be, takes deep root in his soul; it is there stamped in an indelible manner, and can only be effaced by death itself.
Now, notwithstanding this peculiar love which all men naturally bear towards their country, ^11 of its should bear
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	27$
in mind that we are never allowed to say anything in praise or dispraise of any race or people but what history clearly shows and proves. It will not do for us to get our own petty notions concerning anything: we must be liberal in our views, and assert nothing but what is held for truth by the sounder part of society. What history clearly shows, and what has come down to us incontested, should be accepted as truth, particularly if it is in reference to something of much moment. For this reason, then, and also for the sole cause of truth, we have had faithful historians in every age of the world,—men who wrote conscien • tiously, and gave the bare facts as far as they knew them, went to great trouble to search out the truth, spent much time and labor in comparing and contrasting documents and the statements of different individuals who previously had written something on what they were about to narrate. And although for the past three hundred years there have been men who wrote without any love or regard for truth, and most unscrupulously disregarded each and every law that goes to bind human society, there have been many who, leaving all personal considerations aside, fearlessly, and with no common share of genius, have given to the world a good example in faithfully adhering to the known truth, and in not deviating in any way from their proposed course, either to follow their own individual notions, or those which they had reason to believe would please some or perhaps most of their fellow-countrymen. They proposed to themselves to narrate things as they really happened, or at least as near as it was possible to come to the reality by the means within their reach; and this they did.
But here we have to desist from further remark, and strive to pursue our subject proper. It may be said, and with truth, that the ancient bards of Ireland sang the achievements, the glories and the triumphs of as warlike and noble a people as ever trod the earth. We know from history that Ireland, like her sis'er kingdoms, was originally peopled by the Celts, who migrated from Asia in the first ages of the world. This people brought with them a language; they brought laws, customs, and manners; and for years, nay even centuries, they inhabited undisturbed their beautiful isle, lerne. With the mind’s eye we can look back upon those people, and behold them making just and righteous laws, administering justice and promoting the welfare of themselves and country. Those who were at the head of affairs, and who promoted the country’s welfare in an especial manner, always regarded and looked upon the praise bestowed upon them by the under class of persons as something of essential importance to their own well-being and to the holding of their c flice. The same may be said of the kings or chieftains, who looked upon praise as the highest and greatest achievement. They looked upon it as something merited, as something of a reward. Hence it was that the bards became so popular. Those knew how to chronicle events in poetic language, the sole object of which is to please. They knew how to sing of the great virtues, of the gallant deeds and doings of their chiefs, and for this they were amply rewarded. They soon became, as it were, the soul of the nation: the men, above all others, who swayed the minds of the people, and who were held in the highest regard by the very fact that they made the nation resound with the voice of song and the enchanting notes of the ancient harp.
If we but look back into bygone ages,—look back to that time when Ireland was a nation, beautiful and free; when
plenty smiled on the face of the country, and loveliness and beauty walked side by side from the Giant’s Causeway to the Lakes of Killarney, and from the mountains of Wicklow to the sea-beaten shore of the West, we find a people differing not a little from the majority of mankind; a people who had a regularly established form of government, and rulers whose influence was felt throughout the length and breadth of the land. Here, too, were the bards—a class of men of a high rank, independent—and exercising no ordinary influence on the mind of the people. To the chiefs themselves they were everything: their advice was asked on all matters of importance; their lives were supposed to be as models to the other subjects; and their great wisdom and prudence were admired by all. Ancient Ireland, like all other nations of antiquity, had her troublesome and peaceful days. As early as 1300 B. C., the country suffered much from the invasion of the Milesians, who heroically over-ran the nation and conquered the proud Danaans, who then, according to history, held possession of the land; and so much were the bards thought of even at this early date that an almost fatal quarrel took place between two sons of Milesius regarding the possession of one of those favorite personages. This serious difference that arose between the two brothers was, however, settled by another brother who held the position of Arch-Druid, and to whom the case was transferred for adjustment. From this one instance, then, we can easily learn how much was thought of those children of nature, and how important they were considered both in regard to the welfare of the government and the happiness and prosperity of the people. A bard, in fact, was looked upon as one of authority, as one holding the triple office of judge, historian, and poet. They compiled and wrote in order the laws of their country, sang its praises on the harp, and contributed much to the order and harmony of social life. In the nine hundred years before Christ, certain law were established by the kings of Ireland respecting the colors in the dress of the people. According to this laws the common people were only entitled to one color in the dress; military officers and private gentlemen were allowed to have two different colors in their attire; the next higher in the land were permitted to have three, and the bardic order, strange to say, could have four, almost as much as the kings themselves. From this we can learn that even in those remote times the kings of Ireland were not absolute monarchs; for, had they that despotical notion in their head, they would never have allowed the bards to be so near on a level with them, at least as regards the number and difference of colors in their dress. It is, then, beyond all doubt that the ancient Irish bards were much regarded, that they held an im-important position, which goes far to show that the country must have been in a comparatively high degree of civilization ; for, the moment we find a nation encouraging art or science, that moment we can safely conclude the minds of the people begin to see what is right, and consequently will conform themselves to just and equitable laws. Here, then, we have cultivation, and a cultivated nation surely cannot be said to be barbarous. The Irish, then, twelve hundred years and more before Christ, were not barbarous, in the strict sense of the term. They had good laws; they were governed by the code of morals that was unknown to many nations of antiquity; they respected the rights of their fellow-men, and the consequence was the absence of that extreme cruelty and inhuman way of acting practised so much by other tribes and races long after the time
280
^HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of which we speak. In literary attainments the Irish were surpassed by no other nation. The hards were the sole life of the people. They not only composed and sang songs of a soul-stirring nature, but they also gave counsel and instruction to whomsoever applied for it; they exercised their influence with the government in behalf of the poor people and those who stood in need of special aid; in a word, they could do everything that is now generally done by ministers, lords, etc.
But perhaps it may be well to say that Ireland was not the only country that recognized the worth of bards. We have authority for a similar respect be paid to them by the Phojnicians, the Egyptians, and the Greeks. As there were no books in those days, it was the duty of the Irish bards to turn into rhyme the history of the country, its laws, etc.; hence they necessarily became, as it were, not only the advisers, etc., but the very books to which all might refer, on all matters, whether of a public or private character. These men, too, were graded according to other degrees of excellence: the highest order was that of the Druids, to which only those could be admitted who were highly distinguished for learning, uprightness of character, etc. This order was so high, and looked upon with so much reverence, that the person of the Druid was considered sacred, and to injure him bodily or otherwise was regarded as a great sacrilege. Although those, men on account of their office, were exempt from bearing arms, they were, however, when a war took place, always on the field of battle. They were, indeed, there for a special purpose: for, by the singing of patriotic songs, the playing of martial music, etc., they easily excited the noble warriors to deeds of heroism and valor. It was their duty, too, to record the events of the war, and especially the noble actions of their chiefs. They, too, had the authority to correct whatever they saw wrong either in regard to the actions of the leaders, or in respect to something that concerned the army or a portion of it. The bards stood on the field of battle, clad in white flowing garments and surrounded by a staff of musicians, who played, as they were directed, those airs and pieces best calculated to stir on the soldiers and officers to great and noble actions. It would seem from the very nature of things in those days that the services of the bardic order were of primary importance for the successful termination of a war, or some other affair of great moment; for history tells us that as soon as these war-songs or martial music ceased on the battle-field there was immediately a panic among the soldiers, and it became apparent to all that a crisis was at hand; consequently the fighting soon ceased, and the chiefs had recourse to negotiation. These men, then, were looked upon as the directors, so to speak, of all important affairs: their word was law; their direction was considered almost infallible; so much so, that whatever was considered by them detrimental to the prosperity of their chief or country was immediately abandoned. In regard to religious affairs, the same may be said of these bards; hence they were in reality the grand advisers on all questions, of whatsoever nature.
After the introduction of Christianity into Ireland, some of the bardic order held the double office of poet and clergyman. This was the case with Douchad O’Daly, Abbot of Boyle. But after some time the bards became haughty and arrogant, on account, we suppose, of their influence and the number of their order; hence it was that the great monarch Hugh held a meeting in order to make
arrangements for their general expulsion from the king dom. Then it was that St. Columkille, who was banished from Ireland on account of the noise he made for the sake of a book, came back to Ireland blindfolded in order to plead the cause of the bards before the royal prince. Through the intercession of this great and holy man of God the bardic order was saved from the fate that was awaiting it, but its number was reduced, and only one registered ollamh was allowed each provincial prince. This action of King Hugh was of material benefit to the nation, as so many of the people of the country were given	j
up to the profession of bard that agriculture, manufactures,	"
etc., were beginning to be neglected. From this it by	I
no means follows that the government of Ireland at the time we speak was in any way opposed to the cultivation of literature; on the contrary, they encouraged it in every	]
possible manner, but as the bardic order became the cause	j
of some disturbance in the land on account of the great	1
influence it was wielding, it was deemed prudent by the king and his council to put a stop to its increasing num-
ber, and have only so many recognized by authority. And,	1
moreover, how could the government of Ireland be op-	(
posed to the education of the masses? how could a land	i
which for centuries enjoyed the fair reputation, the fair p name of “Island of Scholars ” be opposed to the one great n feature for which it was so distinguished ?	|
But why, it may be urged, do we insist on showing that Ireland, from the earliest ages, was a land addicted to song, when at the present day scarcely a trace of all this remains ? i We might answer by asking, Why do we speak so often	gj
of the glories of ancient Greece and Rome when scarcely a x , vestige of them remains? And yet this cannot be said of Ireland; for, although she is not a nation as to having her own Government, she is distinctly national in her character, an element of which she can never be robbed. She is	i
distinct in her poetry, in her song, in her mind-endow- •	>
ments—in a word, in all but her language, and for the de-	!■
spoiling of this it took many a long day, many a cruel and	I)
inhuman attack from her oppressive neighbors, the Saxons,	I
who strove to rob her of her Faith, her language, and	|
everything that goes to make a nation distinct and inde-	Ll
pendent. Her language and independence, it is true,	|
they took, but the rest they were obliged to leave; for, do	I'
what they would, they could not rob the Irish of their	I
Faith and those other distinguishing marks that go to make	B
a people.
We may say now that for several hundred years before '• Christ, and also for several hundred years after Christianity dawned upon the world, the Irish enjoyed a world-wide reputation both as soldiers, as musicians, and as poets. The Romans, although they boasted at one time that they were masters of the whole world, never could unfurl their banner on Irish soil. These great warriors passed her shores, fought and conquered the English, but never attempted to conquer the fair isle. Tacitus says in his life of Agricola that Ireland could be conquered with one or two legions, but it is easy to see that this is mere bombast, as all know that it is one thing to assert a fact and quite another thing to prove it. But what Tacitus says has never been proven, as the actual proof of his saying would consist in the conquering of Ireland with the number of troops spoken of; consequently the assertion of the R >man historian is cox et praterea nihil, and nothing more. The glories of this first “ Gem of the Sea ” are something incontestable.
Her bardic orders made the hills, the valleys and the wood-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	281
sides resound for centuries with the sweet strains of the harp, which to this day adorns the national banner of Ireland. They swayed the minds of the people by the recital of their beautiful compositijons in lyric verse, and by their sweet songs recording the gallant deeds of their heroes, and the judgment and prudence of their sages. By their advice and counsel, the kings and other nobles of the land were assisted and directed. In war, as we have already intimated, they were the soul of the whole army; the martial strains did more than the sharp sword or battle-axe, and their melodious voices rang through the camp and cheered the sometimes sinking hearts of the hard-fought soldiers. In peace, they gladdened the hearts and minds of all, both
by the morality of their lives and by the soul-stirring power of music and of song. Diwn from the hillsides came the chiefs, and from the lordly halls came forth kings and princes to listen to the song of a favorite bard, to praise his voice, and witness his skilful performances on the harp, —in a word, all flacked around these sons of song to gladden their hearts by the sweet and natural effusion of soul, and drink in with all the fervor and eagerness of youthful scholars their words and deeds.
From the foregoing we may safely conclude that the Celtic race were from time immemorial much devoted to music and song. The common people, as also the nobility, loved to participate in exercises or entertainments of a musical nature, and listen to the excellent mush or sweet song of a favorite bard. They loved, too, to hear their deeds and achievements recorded and sung in the assembly halls,— they loved to hear the sweet notes of their favorite instrument, the harp, and fill their souls with its heavenly sounds, and finally, they loved to mingle with their more serious occupations of life the joys and pleasures that might be reaped from innocent amusement and social enjoyment. By the action ofting Hugh in regard to the bards, the number of the order of the b irds became lessened, and finally registered bards were done away with altogether. This did not, however, affect in the least the poetry of the country; but when the times of oppression and of slavery came the harp of Erin became enchained, and consequently remained silent for over eight hundred years. It was, however, at last unbound, but so much changed that it sounds no more with its former sweetness and simplicity. J. C-
Daedalus.
AFTER THE GERMAN BY A. S. G.
Daedalus of Athens was the oldest and also the most skilful artist in all things which required acute understanding, a lively imagination, and a skilful hand. He was the first to give eyes to statuary, to give to the arms an easy and graceful attitude and gesture, and the same to the feet. For this reason, the people held that he made moving statues. His standing in the fine arts brought him into the best society. He came to the courts of many kings, and everywhere acquired additional fame and riches.
On the island of Crete, he built for King Minos the celebrated Labyrinth, a subterranean vault of great extent, which had so many paths crossing and recrossing each other, that a person led deep into the recesses of the vault could not find his way out again, and was obliged to remain there and to perish miserably by starvation.
As be had been using at the court of the king his extensive knowledge for such things as were contrary to the
wishes of Minos, he drew upon himself the distrust of this severe ruler and fell into disgrace at his court. He was sharply watched, and was never afterwards allowed to leave the island. This was to the artist a severe blow, as he had a great desire to travel. Often he walked sorrowfully, with his son, Icarus, up and down the sea-shore, thinking of the cities and countries he was never to behold again, separated from them by a wide waste of water.
His eyes loved to turn with an affectionate, yearning look in the direction of his native city, Athens, and the whole strength of his former love of travel grew into an unconquerable desire to visit again the home of his boyhood. His heart went out to every incoming wave as if it was a
messenger from that loved home, a connecting link between him and it.
The deeper the feelings of Daedalus were moved by pain and unrest, the higher was fixed in his strong mind a determination to find by some artifice a way to get a passage from that hateful island. One day he said to himself: “ Minos may forbid me to pass by the aid of these waters to my native land, but the heavens are open to me still; there I must seek my way. This tyrannical ruler possesses himself of everything below, but he cannot become master of the air.”
Before uttering these apparently idle and rash words, he had already formed a plan by which he could, with the aid of his scientific skill, obtain his liberty. This wonderful man had formed the idea of making wings for himself, by the aid of which he could fly like a bird across the waters of the sea. To carry out his purpose he collected a great number of large quills, arranged them side by side, in the form of wings, and tied them with strong twine; a large quantity of downy feathers were then fastened to the larger ones by means of wax.
Little Icarus stood by the side of his father during the whole work, laughing heartily at the thought that he would soon be able to fly like a bird. He helped his father as much as possible in this great undertaking, replaced the feathers blown from their places by the wind, and kept the wax melted for his father.
Soon two wings were completed, and Daedalus curved them to give them as nearly as possible the shape of real bird’s wings. He then went to a secluded spot near the village in which he lived, fastened the wings to his shoulders, took hold of them with outstretched arms, and, husbanding all his strength, gave a high leap into the air. Lo and behold, he arose gradually from the earth. “The undertaking is successful!” he joyfully cried; and Icarus, clapping his hands together, laughed loudly. In a much shorter time than it took to complete the first pair of wings, a second was finished, and Icarus, after receiving some instructions from his father, soon learned to perfection how to make use of this new mode of conveyance.
Daily, at a secluded spot near the sea-shore, the father and son exercised themselves in flying, and at last the day arrived on which the perilous journey was to be made. Early in the morning, they both stood on the highest bluff, near the sea-shore, and the wings glistened in the beams of the rising sun. “Be very careful,” said the father to his son, “that you do not fly too low, near the rocking billows; the splashing water might dash against you, and make your downy dress too heavy. But be still more careful that you do not fly too high: there would be danger, in that the heat of the sun might melt the wax and cause your wings to fall to pieces. Always follow me closely, swerving
282
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
neither to the right nor to the left.” “I will obey you, father,”responded Icarus; and in his delight and eagerness the boy flapped his wings. Daedalus, glancing at his son with paternal feeling, thought of the perilous journey he was about to make, and was so moved by fatherly love that he tremoled, while great tears ran slowly down his cheeks and upon his beard. “ It must be done! ” he said, with firm but trembling voice; he again kissed his beloved Icarus, and swung himself from the shore over the waters, high into the air, like an eagle when for the first time, he takes his young brood from the security of their nest into the air. The father often glanced backward over his shoulder, and reminded |	his son always to follow him, and taught him new move-
ments, to make the long journey easier. Speedily they left cities and states behind them. Icarus smiled at the wild waves, which were in commotion beneath him, and pressed his father to fly still faster. Flying past an island, a fisherman stood on the bank, and seeing them he immediately fell upon the ground and stretched out his arms, as if asking ;	forgiveness; for he thought they were gods. People assem-
i	bled on the shore, awaiting the descent of the heavenly
i	messengers, and some were afraid of their anger. But
Daedalus paused not; he still continued his course towards his beloved home, Icarus following.
They had nearly reached the end of their long journey, and Daedalus looked less anxiously towards his now experienced son. Elated by his success and spurred on by youthful impetuosity, a desire now arose in the bosom of the latter to fly still higher, in order to see further ahead, and to dispute with the king of birds, the eagle, in loftiness of flight. He left the course of his paternal guide, and went higher and higher. His pride tempted him to see the wonders of the heavens and to ascend the blue firmament. But too late he felt the heat of the sun. He wished to turn back; but the melting wax was already dropping off. His wings parted; he struck with his naked arm into the air, but it could find no hold. “ Father! father! ” he cried; and “ Icarus! Icarus! ” he heard answered; he would again cry to his father, but the words were drowned as he fell into the sea.
“Icarus, where are you? ” the father cried unceasingly. But instead of the answer, he saw the feathers floating about on the water, and soon discovered the body of his son. The sorrowing father buried him near the shore of an island, and wished no longer to return to his home.
Scientific Notes.
—A cargo of Carrara marble, lost eight years ago at sea, and recently recovered, was found to be completely honeycombed by some marine boring animal.
—Sir Joseph Hooker, late President of the Royal Society, has received a communication from the Astronomer-Royal stating that the range of observations of the laie transit of Venus indicates a distance from the sun of 92,-044,000 to 92,770,000 miles.
—One hundred years ago not a pound of coal, not a cubic foot of illuminating gas had been burned in this country. No iron stoves were used, and no contrivance for economizing heat employed until Dr. Franklin invented the iron framed fire-place which still bears his name.
—It is announced that there will be an infernational exhibition of sea and river fishing material at Berlin in 1880. This exhibition will contain not less than nine departments. A programme will be .*-ent abroad soon, giving all necessary particulars to those who may desire to foiward exhibits.
—In considering geological climate and geological time, Mr. William Davies suggests that the heat which the earth once received from the moon ought to be taken into account by physicists. He thinks that, at one time, the moon must have exerted an influence on the earth like that of a second or additional sun.
—M. Liais, the Director of the Rio de Janeiro Observatory, has begun the great work of determining by electric telegraph the longitude of Rio in comparison with Green-wicn. When the operation shall have been completed the geographical position of every city in Southern America will be known with exactitude.—Nature.
—Professor Gould has found that the velocity of the electric waves through the Atlantic cables is from 7,000 to 8,000 miles per second, and depends somewhat upon wnether the circuit is formed by the two cables or by one cable and the earth. Telegraph wires upon poles in the air conduct the electric waves with a velocity a little more than double this; and it is remaiked, as a curious fact, that the rapidity of the transmLsion increases with the distance between the wire and the earth, or the height of the support. Wires buried in the earth likewise transmit slowly, like submarine cables. Wires placed upon poles but slightly elevated transmit signals with a velocity of 12,000 miles per second, while those at a considerable height give a velocity of 16,000 or 20,000 miles.
—Two French chemists have quite recently succeeded in artificially producing iridescent glass, like that found in the buried cities of Herculaneum and Pompeii and Roman tombs. The received theory is that this ancient glass, originally plain, became iridescent from long exposure to the action of air and moisture at a high temperature, these conditions being admirably fulfilled in the old Roman tombs, where most of this glass is iound. The modern glass is aitificially made by submitting the glass under a considerable pressure and at an elevated temperature to the action of water containing fifteen per centum of hydrochloric acid. Only certain kinds of glass are suitable for this operation. The modern glass stands any amount of rubbing or cleaning without losing its curious property, but if the exposed surface be cut or ground off the iridescent effect is instantly lost, showing that its cause is merely superficial and not structural, as is the case with mother-of-pearl. The Bohemian glass, so iar, seems to be the favorite for embellishing with the new iridescence. A good deal of this iridescent glassware is principally for the European market, as the American public is hardly, as yet, acquainted with this novel and beautiful glassware. One ot the charms of this new glass is its infinite variety and freshness. No two pieces are alike in color, and no piece remains the same when placed in a new position or regarded from a different point of view.— Crockery and Glass Journal.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The authorities of Kieff University have just discovered that the Vladimir collection of ancient Slavonic works, which are of priceless value, has been robbed to the extent of seven hundred volumes.
—At Leipsic has been published in separate form Prof. Thausing’s study of Michael Angelo’s “Cartoon oLPisa,” together with a fac-simile of Michael Angelo’s sketch for this subject now in Vienna, and other illustrations.
—William H. Beard, the artist, is preparing a volume of drawings designed to suit the peculiar vein of each celebrated American poet, to be accompanied by original poems written expressly by the several authors represented.
—The new bronze statue of Sumner in Boston, by Thomas Ball, was cast in Paris, is nine feet and a half high, and stands on a granite pedestal eleven feet high. The entire cost was $15,000. The Senator is represented as delivering a speech.
—Lord Chelmsford, it seems, at the time of his death, was engaged in writing a work containing many amusing reminiscences and anecdotes of the English Bar. He had invited several of his colleagues to assist him with their recollections.—Athenceum.	„ >
THE KOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5
v r’
—The large picture by Meissonier, “Cuirassiers—1805,” which was in the French display at the late Exhibition, and which is about the same size as A. T. Stewart’s “ 1807,” has been sold to a Belgian eentleman for 275,000f. The price originally asked was 500,000f., and an offer of 250,000f. by the French Government, who wished it for the great lottery, was refused.
—The dictionary of the Abneki Indian language, which is now to be seen in the Harvard College, was written 200 years ago by the distinguished Jesuit missionary, Father Sebastian Rall, who brought Christianity to the Indians of Maine. He was murdered by an English force in 1724, and fifty years ago Bishop Fenwick, of Boston, erected a monument on the spot where he fell near Madison, on the Kennebec River.
—The Art Committee of the New York Union League Club propose to ask for an appropriation of from $5,000 to 10,009 a year from the Club funds to be applied to the purchase of pictures from our native artists to form a Club collection of American paintings. This Club has already done much for art by its monthly art receptions and exhibitions, and this new move should meet the hearty approval of all as looking toward the much-needed encouragement of home art.
—That old Christmas standby, “The Messiah,” was given in Cincinnati on the 25th, under Mr. Thomas’ direction, with a chorus of 570 voices, with Miss Mary Van, Miss Emma Cranch, Mr. E. Hartlev Thompson, and Mr. M. W. Whitney in the solos; in St. Louis on the 26ih by the Harmonic Society, under Mr. Goldbeck’s direction, with Miss Ellen Ames, Miss Minnie Curtis, Mr. Charles Allen, and Mr. A. D. Cunningham in the solos; at New York on the 27th, by the Oratorio Society, under Dr. Damroch’s direction, with Miss Minnie Hauk, Miss Drasdil, Mr. George Simpson, and Mr. M. W. Whitney in the solos; and at Boston on the 21st, by the Handel and Haydn Society, with Mrs. Emma R. Dexter, Miss Ila Welch, Mr. William Courtney, and Mr. M. W. Whitney in the solos.
—Lorenzo Da Ponte, author of the librettos of Mozart’s two most famous operas, passed the last thirty-three years of his life in this city, where he died in 1838 in his 90th year. He was noted for his eccentricities and his love of literary composition, and made it a rule, which was observed almost to the day of his death, to compose a sonnet in Italian every morning before dressing or eating. 8<>me mornings inspiration came readily, and the venerable librettist would find himself a prompt attendant at the breakfast table. At other times his muse was less accommodating, and it would be almost midday before the fourteen lines were painfully wrought into proper metrical shape; and he has ever been known to toss about his bed, unshaven and unkempt, a ludicrous figure, until 4 or 5 o’clock in the afternoon, to complete his task, when he would rush to the breakfast table and devour his well earned meal with a choleric voracity, which those present on such occasions could not readily forget.—New York Sun.
—One of the most striking and, so to say, dramatic works at the Paris Salon of the present year was by M. Schenck, an artist heretofore little heard of, and probably still young. It was styled L'Agonie, and it represented, with extraordinary fidelity and force, a wild place, snow-covered, after a heavy fall of snow. The principal figures were a sheep and a lamb,—the lamb lying thin, stiff, and dead on the down-fallen snow, and the moi her-sheep standing over it, herself breathing with difficulty her last breath in the frigid air, but standing passionately, with a little fierceness still left in the eye and a little force in the limb, to protect the dead lamb from the black company of birds now crowding round, in full vigor and alertness, to taste and share their prey. Behind the desolate scene rose a sky, soft, and thick, and shrouded, as betokening length of winter and evil days for delicate things. We hear that M. Schenck’s picture is going to Manchester,—may, indeed, in all possibility, make the tour of the large English towns,—when it is intended that the admirable etching by M. Demare shall also be placed within the reach of the English public. Of pictures of animal and bird life hardly ever has one been more successful.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from the Catholic Publication Society The Little Treatise on Little Sufferings, a fine little work translated from the French.
—The Catholic Publication Society has sent us a little volume entitled Sayingsand Insti actions of the Foundress of the Sisters of Mercy, an elegant little present to give children.
—We have received the following pamphlets from the author, Judge Horace P. Biddle, viz.: “The Definition of Poetry,” “Russian Literature,” “A Discourse on Art,” “A Review of Prof. Tyndall’s Work on Sound,” “The Tetrachord,” and “The Analysis of Rhyme.” Judge Biddle has earned an enviable name on the bench, and his contributions to literature are marked with the same serious and profound research that characterizes his decisions in the courts of law. He wields a facile pen, and the essays in the above-named pamphlets display erudition and ripe scholarship.
—We have received the first number of Donahoe's Magazine, a new eclectic magazine published by the veteran journalist and publisher, Mr. Patrick D.mahoe, of Boston, Mass. Mr. Donahoe was one of the pioneers in Catholic journalism in the United States. He was the founder of the Pilot, one of the oldest, as it is among the ablest weekly journals in the country. For years he conducted that paper, though now, for causes unnecessary to relate, it passed from his hands. In his new venture in journalism Mr. Donahoe has the best wishes of the whole press of the country. The Magazine is, as we said, an eclectic, the selections being made with care from the leadingjournals of Ireland and the United States. It is devoted to the interests of the Irish race at home and abroad. The first number contains very near one hundred pages of excellent reading-matter, and we feel assured that Mr. Donahoe will, with his indomitable energy, make his Magazine one to be welcomed in every Irish-American household in the land. Tne terms are §2 a year; single copies, 20 cts. Address Patrick Donahoe, Boston, Mass.
—Parallel with Vai d’Ossau runs a valley—that of Argelez, commonly called the Paradise of the Pyrenees. It is of surpassing loveliness, truly; bright in due season with varied crops, the maize predominating; gay with grass pasture-lands of a vivid dazzling green; owning luxuriant woods; the roadway festooned with vines, rich with wild cherry trees, in spring-time a mass of snowy blossoms; the whole valley watered with innumerable rills. It is cursed, nevertheless, w'ith the same fell disease which affl cts the most beautiful valleys in Switzerland; cretinism is extremely prevalent, and the goitre makes mau hideous where sature seems sublime. As if to bar admission to this enchanting region, the old fortress town of Lourdes is perched at the mouth of the defile; defiant still, but not of supreme importance now, as in ancnnt times. After the fatal battle of Tours, when 300,000 Moslems fell, the Saracens flying before Charles Martel, “ the Hammer,” rallied beneath the walls of Lourdes. It was again and again a bone of contention, most of all when the English owned it, in the reign of Edward III. The Duke of Anjou vainly besieged it, and having failed at the citadel, burnt down the town in his rage. More insidious methods succeeded open attack, and at the Duke’s instance, Gaston Phoebus of Foix, having summoned Peter Ernault, its governor, to visit him at Orthez, plied him with persuasion, threats, and bribes in turn, but failing in all, suddenly stabbed him in five places. '■'■Ha, monseigneur! ” cried the poor knight, “ nous nefaites pas gentillesse, nous m'anez mandez et nous m’occiez.” He died thus for his duty; but treachery; prospered not. for his brother, whom he had left in command, continued to hold Lourdes. More recently this castle was the prison of Lord Elgin, whom, in 1804, Napoleon seized and incarcerated for no reason but to affront England and stir up a war. Now crowds of devotees annually make pilgrimages thither; the halt and the maimed come to be cured, and leave behind their crutches and other offerings in the pretty white church which has been built above the Grotte de la Vierge.— Picturesque Europe.
284
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a nit
Notre Dame, January 4, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the. day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the "week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,	P	’
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
A Costly Education.
There is in this country quite a number of what are called educational journals that strongly advocate the establishing of a National University, to be maintained by the general Government. This idea is sometimes taken up by the State superintendents of education, and by them endorsed. Among its advocates may be reckoned nearly all those who favor high schools, State colleges, agricultural colleges, normal schools, etc. What a burden such an institution would be to the tax-payers of the United States may be imagined when we consider the cost for a year’s tuition in one of the State colleges now in running order in the State of Indiana, and we believe that in institutions similar to the one we refer to the cost of educating pupils is the same, if not more.
There is a college or university at Lafayette, Ind., known as the Purdue University. This institution had its inception, according to a correspondent of the South Bend Daily Register, in an act of Congress passed July 2d, 1862, dedicating certain public lands or the avails of the same for the endowment of colleges for the benefit of agricultural and the mechanical arts. In 1874, the principal of this fund secured by this State, together with the accretions, amounted to $365,000. John Purdue also donated $150,000, in ten equal annual instalments, towards the accomplishment of the scheme; while the city of Lafayette contributed for the same purpose $50,000 in cash, and 100 acres of land, adjacent to the city, for the site of the institution. Besides these several amounts, the Legislature, since 1867, in answer to the demands of the concern, has appropriated a sum now aggregating more than one hundred thousand dollars. One would suppose that the institution would be satisfied with what it received. But not so, for we learn that the President has stated that for the consummation of the plan adopted there
would be required a draft of ten thousand dollars annually for ten years to come from the State Treasury. Such being the cost of this college, we would take it that the number of students attending class therein is large. “But this is not the case,” says the correspondent referred to. “The institution was formally opened for the reception of students September 16th, 1874. Although it purports to be an agricultural college, yet but barely one application had been made at the date of the last report for instruction in that branch. There has been but one student graduated; and for the first year the whole number of students enrolled was 45; for the second year, 66; and for the third year, 98. The expense for the education of the 66 students in 1875-6, the only year for which I have computed, was as follows: For instructors, $12,275; for heat, light, and other incidentals, $9,25443; for farm labor, etc., $3,391.82, making in all, $25,12125, or over $380 per student. Besides these expenditures, the student himself must pay out of his own pocket, entrance fee in academy, per term, $2; entrance fee in college, per year, $5; matriculation fee in special schools, $10; incidental expenses, per term, $3; chemicals and "gas, for special students in laboratory, per term, $10; table board, per week, $3; room rent, heat and light, per week, 50 cents; washing, per dozen, 75 cents.”
But this is not a full showing of the cost of education at Purdue University. The editor of the Register, commenting on the statements of its correspondent, says: “The cost for the year mentioned, in which the number of pupils in attendance was 66, was for each pupil $380. But of course this sum does not include the item of interest on the investment of money in the buildings and the appurtenances, which belong, by right, to any estimate of that kind. The University and grounds, for instance, represent at least half a million of dollars, which at eight per cent, brings the yearly interest up to the sum of $40,000. Divide this amount by the number of pupils in attendance and add to the outlay for teachers, etc., and we learn that the schooling of each for the year named was $986! In round numoers, sixty-six out of the million or so of children of school age in the State of Indiana, receive tuition at an expense of a thousand dollars.apiece.”
If the tax-payers of Indiana, or of any other State, will foolishly tax .themselves to educate a few students when the cost is so great, they must suffer for their folly. Would it not be far better for the State to support primary schools only, and leave to the parents the cost necessary for anything above that? Let reading, writing, arithmetic, and similar branches, be taught at the Slate’s expense, but nothing more. As to higher education, let those who desire it pay for it. And this should more especially be the case since, as the correspondent of the Register remarks, our State University at Bloomington, our Normal School at Terre Haute and our High Schools can present but a little better showing than the Purdue University.
The Entertainment on the 31st.
The New Year’s Club is of recent origin. Indeed it was founded on the 23d of December, just after a large number of students left for home to spend the holidays. Its membership did not include any of those who left Notre Dame to spend the Christmas vacation elsewhere; on the contrary, membership was confined to those who remaim d here. It did not, however, outlive its usefulness,
c l’.r
TSE NOTRE dame scholastic.

but expired in a blaze of glory. Last Tuesday evening the members gave an Entertainment, at which they produced two plays in a manner that redounded greatly to the honor of those who took part in them, as well as to the energetic Director of the Club, and on Wednesday, the 1st of January, held a grand levee in the Hall, after which the Club was dissolved.
At the time appointed for the raising of the curtain, a large audience assembled in Washington Hall. The promptness with which the Entertainment began, prevented most of the large assembly from reading all the opinions of the press which decorated the fourth page of the programme, but most of the audience found time to read a few of them, by which their expectations were raised to a high degree. The performers, we are happy to state, did not fail to fulfil the bill. It may not be out of place to give some of the opinions of the press, for the benefit of those who had not the pleasure of attending the Entertainment. We, however, suppress the names of the journals.
“Punctuality,” says one paper, “perspicuity, prosperity and precision are the characteristics of the performances of the New-Year’s Club.”
“Having viewed the subject successively with the spectacles of intellect, the opera-glass of morality, and the microscope of aesthetic culture, we feel amply justified in saying that there is nothing in the performances of the New-Year’s Club to raise a spittoon to the cheek of the most unsophisticated.”
“The New-Year’s Club is a body founded on the Darwinian principle of Natural Selection, and as such must ever be an interesting study to the truly earnest student of scientific analysis.’’
“ This is the most broadly metaphysical consolidation that has ever appeared in the world of intellect since the epoch f of the second triumvirate. The impetuosity of ‘Mark j	Antony ’ is outdone by that of ‘ Handy Andy ’; the sagacity
;	of ‘Octavius’ is surpassed by that of ‘Lord Aubrey,’ and
the equilibrium of ‘ Lepidus’ is, at least, rivalled by that of I Mr. Arnold in the part of ‘Mys'icus.’ ”
5	But in addition to the favorable notices given the Club by
the press, the programme also gave the opinion of a distinguished lady, whose name it is unnecessary for us to mention:
“Rutherford, my dear, are you asleep?” “No.” “Then get up and get me a free pass to South Bend by the lightning express. I want to see the performance of the New-Year’s Club at Notre Dame. Berteling, as ‘ Melancardios,’ is sublime. My new black velvet will just do to go in. This consoles me for my ejection from the Temperance Society.”
But let the opinions of the papers go, and hear ours. The Entertainment was a success in every respect. It was of a nice length, and at the conclusion no one seemed tired, but, on the contrary, wished there was more.
The music on the occasion was furnished by the String Quartette, and was in quality after the usual standard of these performers. Of the playing of the individual members nothing need be said, since all at Notre Dame are familiar with their playing.
The New-Year’s Address, given by Mr. Jas. Quinn, was warmly applauded. It was well worded, and delivered with grace and ease.
The first play on the programme was the spectacular melodrama entitled “The Enchanted Hostelry; or, the Seven Travellers.” As we printed this play entire a month \ or so ago, we need not give an outline of it. It was well
performed, the audience enjoying thoroughly the many good things brought out so frequently in the course of the story. The umbrella dance especially captivated all.
Mr. J. J. Quinn made a capital “ Lord Aubrey,” and Mr. Thompson acted the part of “ Aloysius” well. The Seven Travellers, viz., J. P. Quinn (Peter, the Poor Scholar), Robt Price (Bill, the Blacksmith), John P. Kinney (Tom, the Drover), A. Keenan (Jack, the Butcher), Frank Williams (Joe, the Gardener), W. Cox (Jem, the Forester), and Robert Keenan (Teddy, the Tinker), all acquitted themselves with great credit. As they joined in the umbrella dance they received great applasue. Mr. J. B. Berteling’s “Melancardios” was extremely well rendered, and Mr. W. Arnold’s “ Mysticus ” all that could be desired. It is needless to say that Mr. J. M. Byrne made a first-class landlord.
“The Enchanted Hostelry” was followed by “Handy-Andy,” arranged for the occasion. This drama was as well received as the first, all those having parts doing exceedingly well. Mr. P. Hagan took the part of “ Andy ” in real good style, affording much amusement to the audience. Mr. S. T. Spalding was a fine “Squire Egan,” a gentleman of the old school. Mr. P. J. Dougherty was an irascible old “ Squire O’Grady,” while “Dick Dawson ” was well personated by Mr. J. Shugrue. W. J. Murphy, as “ Mr. Murphy,” acted well, and Messrs. J. B. McGrath (Ed. O’Connor), J. J. Coleman (Mr. Furlong), F. W. Cavanaugh (Mad Nick), G. P. Cassidy (Simon), E. Dempsey (Carroll), W. Hickerson (Farrell), and T. Simms (McQuade), all acted their parts faithfully and conscientiously.
The Entertainment was very enjoyable and gave a great deal of pleasure to all who attended. With very few rehearsals, it was really wonderful how well all the actors personated the various characters. The closing remarks were made by the Very Rev. President of the College, who in behalf of the audience thanked the young men for the treat they had afforded during the evening. The New-Year’s Club are to be congratulated on their success.
The Scholastic Annual.
In the winter of 1875-76, Prof. J. A. Lyons compiled an Almanac which on account of most of the reading matter being taken from this paper he entitled The Scholastic Almanac. Having had a reasonable amount of success in this first venture, the two following years he issued the Almanac in much handsomer style, and met with that reception from the general public and that praise from the press which his efforts so well deserved. He has now placed his Annual on such a secure fooling that each year he will present it to the public favor.
In this yearly venture the editor and publishers of the Scholastic have no pecuniary interest, nor are they responsible for anything which may appear in its pages. All that they have done is to allow the compiler to make use of any articles which may have appeared in the columns of this paper. The introduction, the astrological articles, the tables of feasts and fasts, the rates of postage, the calendars, both astrological and ecclesiastical, the advertisements, etc., do not come from them, but are the work of the compiler, or were written for him by parties not connected with the Scholastic. The reading articles which follow the calendars alone are from our columns, and in making these selections the compiler was left to his own taste and judgment.
286
THE NOME DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Of course it is not for us to speak of the merit of the articles transferred from our pages to the Scholastic Annual and Almanac for 1879, but we might be allowed to state that were the matter left to our judgment, we do not believe that from all that has been written for the Scholastic we could have made a better selection.
Of the part of the Annual which was not taken from this paper we can say with truth that it is of a useful nature. The astrological predictions for 1879 are rather bold, and we fear that the worthy compiler will be forced to exercise his ingenuity at the end of the year in showing them to have come true. However, the manner in which ' he has verified the predictions for 1878 gives us every reason to believe that he will successfully accomplish the ' task at the end of the following twelve months. We hope^ that none of the thousands of readers of the Scholastic Annual and Almanac for 1879 will be led into extraordinary expense in seeking to avoid auy calamities threatened by the astrologer.
The mechanical part of the Almanac is worthy of high praise. The book is beautifully printed on tinted paper and presents an appearance equal to that of any similar publication issued this year. We trust that it will meet with a large sale, since we believe it a deserving venture on the part of Prof. Lyons.
We would especially call the attention of all old students to it, as among them the compiler looks for his largest ' sales. It may be procured of Prof. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind., or of the Western News Company, Chicago, Ill. The price of the Almanac is twenty-five cents.
Personal.
—Frank Carroll (Commercial), of’78, is living in Boston, Mass.
—Virgil McKinnon (Commercial), of 78, is clerking in Chicago. .
' —John Lefevre (Commercial), of’74, is reading law in Chicago.
—John McSorley (Commercial), of’72, is in business in St. Louis, Mo.	.
—T. F. Heery (Commercial), of ’65, is in business in Greene, Iowa.
—Marmaduke Weldon (Commercial), of ’73, is living at Covington, Ind.
—James Caren, of ’76, is in the County Surveyor’s Office, Columbus, Ohio.
—Win. Ohlman (Commercial), of’78, is attending college in St. Louis, Mo.
—Paris Mulhall (Commercial), of ’72, is in business in San Francisco, Cal.
—John Moffat, of’61, is in the office of the City Waterworks, St. Louis, Mo.
—A. Buecher (Commercial), of ’76, is studying pharmacy in Philadelphia.
—W. Vanderhayden (Commercial), of’77, is clerking for his father at Iona, Mich.
—W. Canavan (Conmercial), of’74, is with J. J. McGrath, on State Street, Chicago.
—Lee Frazee (Commercial), of ’76 is clerking for his uncle at Portsmouth, Ohio.
—Frank Phelan (Commercial), of ’77, may be found at the St. James’ Hotel, St. Louis, Mo.	’
• —W. Campbell (Commercial), of ’75, is clerking for J. J. McGrath, 174 and 176 State Street, Chicago.
—Rev. P. Johannes left last Wednesday for New Orleans, L»., where he goes to assist the Rev. F. Marine.
—Rev. F. Marine, C. S. C., of New Orleans, spent'several days at Notre Dame at the beginning of the week.
—J. H. McConlogue (Commercial), of ’78, is doing well at Rrckwell, Pa. No wonder: he takes the Scholastic.
—Rev. Richard Maher arrived home on New-Year’s evening. He had been visiting friends in Monroe, Bay City and Marshall, Mich.
—Among the callers of New-Year’s Day were Rev. P. Lauth, Rev. C. Demers, Rev. A. Saulnier, Rev. F’. Veniard, and Rev. V. Czyzewski.
—P. O’Sullivan (Commercial), of ’74, was at Notre Dame on New-Year’s. Mr. O’Sullivan is engaged in leaching at Valparaiso for Rev. M. O Reilly, of ’59.
—Hon. John Gibbons, of ’69, of Keokuk, Iowa, with his brother, Hon. P. Gibbons, of South Bend, was among the
I callers at Notre Dame on New-Year’s Day.
John P. Lauth, of ’67, spent the Christmas holidays •with his brother, Rev. P. Lauth, of ’63, at South Bend. Mr. J. P. Lauth is principal of a large school in Chicago.
—Mr. James Russell and wife, of Fond-du Lac, Wisconsin, were at Notre Dame the past week, visiting their nephew. Mr. Russell is editor and proprietor of the Fond-du-Lac Journal.	'
/ —James H. Ward, of ’74, and wife entertained the members of the Mignon Club at their residence, 91 Loomis St, Chicago, on the 18th of December Among the old students present were Messrs. M. T. Corby, Flaherty, Hogan and Cochrane.
—It was rumored that J. Cassard and E. Anderson, who attended class here last year, had died of yellow fever this , last summer. We are happy to state there was no truth in uhe rumor. Mr. Jas. Lemarie, who was here at the same time, did have the fever, but happily recovered. ■ /—It seems that out in Oil Citv, Pa., they wish to tax the schools of Rev. T. Carroll, of ’56. A reporter of the Derrick, of that city, in quest of news, called on Father Carroll last week and learned that the reverend gentleman had been pastor of St. Joseph’s Church in Oil City.for more than seven years. Father Carrod received the reporter in his usual genial manner, and, ushering him into his study in the parsonage adjoining the church, wailed patiently for the torture about lobe inflicted. “We have a congregation,” said he in answer to a question, “of more than 2,000. Three hundred children attend school in St. Joseph's Catholic school, conducted by six Benedictine Sisters, or rather Sisters of Charity. The congregation owns the church property, Sisi ers’ house and school house, and Catholic cemetery, adjoining the public cemetery. There is no debt, and some dry money in the treasury,” added Father Carroll, with a smile. “ We have a large Sunday-school of three hundred scholars, and the following societies: Temperance Society, of seventy-five men; Young Ladies’ Sodality, with seventy-five members; the Rosary Society, wiihone hundred members; the Young Boys’ Temperance Society, with one hundred members; and the Insurance Society, with forty members.” This news satisfied the re; porter, and he “dusted.”
fl
3
\ /	Obituary.	.
J Died at Notre Dame, January 2d, 1879, Brother Raphael (Richard Murphy), aged 26 years. Bro. Raphael was for many years pressman in the Notre Dame Scholastic and the Ave itaria printing office, where he earned the esteem of all with whom he came in contact by his faithfulness and devotion. The deceased was taken with consumption, and during the summer was compelled to relinquish his work. Perfectly resigned to die, he awaited his end with resignation to the will of God, and, fortified with the last Sacraments of the Church, he calmly breathed forth his soul at 10 o’clock on the morning of the 2d. His death, a great loss to the establishment, is his great gain. May his soul rest in peace!	*
—Melancholy falls upon a contented mind like a drop of ink on white paper,—which is none the less a stain because it carries no meaning.
1
THE N0TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Mt
Local Items.

£


J
f<
—Monday is the Feast of the Epiphany.
—The St. Cecilians are refitting their room.
—Ice in large quantities is now being cut on St. Joseph’s Lake.
—Classes have recommenced, and are now going along smoothly.	-
—The second of January was colder than any day since the winter set in.
—The Minims took a jaunt to St. Mary’s on the 29th, and were nicely entertained.	"
—The Philopatrians expect to do more than well at their coming Entertainment.
—Mr. Ignatius Seeger, of Dubuque, Iowa, has given $5 for the Chapel of the Sacred Heart.	•
—There was a fine audience on the 31st to witness the Entertainment of the New-Year’s Club.
. —The cold weather, bringing with it heavy falls of snow, has sadly interfered with our Eastern mails.
—There was much amusement in the Junior study-hall when the prizes were drawn for last Wednesday evening.
—The Semi-Annual Examination will take place the , last week of this month. Every one should prepare him’ self for it.
—There was great amusement on New-Year’s Day in 1 the Junior Department when the Christmas tree was despoiled of its fruit.
■	—There was scarcely a priest or Brother at Notre Dame
vasked to contribute to the Junior Christmas tree that did not give something.
—The young gentleman who drew the barrel of apples last Wednesday evening shared them with ail the students . in the Juuior Department.
—The ice on St. Mary’s Lake has been well used during the past week by the skaters. It is smooth and clear,— just the thing tor the boys.
—The Juniors removed their tables, etc., to their study-i hall during Christmas week, and took their recreations \ there when not on the lake, skating.
\ —The pupils of the Manual Labor School made a trip to the St. Joseph Farm on the 29th. The sleighing was ex-\ cellent and the excursion was much enjoyed.
—Donated by Very Rev. Father Sorin towards the new Chapel ot the Sacred Heart $103, just received as a New-Year’s present from 103 ot his poorest friends.
—The Entertainment last Tuesday evening proved the fact that for amateur Entertainments an audience is better pleased with that which amuses them than the serious plays often given.
—The young members of the Junior Department, in getting up their Christmas tree, received assistance from everyone whom they asked. Some of the articles given were quite valuable.
—Solemn High Mass was celebrated on New-Year’s Day, ; Rev. A. Louage being celebrant, Rev. C. Kelly deacon, "Rev. N. Stoffel subdeacon, and Mr. A. Morrissy, C. S. C., master of ceremonies.
—The Sketch of the Life of Lacordaire, now appearing in the Ave Maria, was written by Miss Kathleen O’Meara, better known under her ncm de plume of Grace Ramsay. It is a most interesting sketch—one well worth reading.
i —Of course kind and good-natured old Santa Claus \ couldn’t pass Notre Dame Christmas Night without paying those bright little fellows, the Minims, a visit. And of course the jolly old gentleman didn’t come empty-handed.
—Vespers to-morrow are the First Vespers of the Epiphany, page 75 of the Vesperal. On Monday afternoon the 2d Vespers of the Feast will be sung. Tomorrow the Mass is the Missa Parvulorum ; on Monday, •.Missa de Angelis.
A —The Minims had a grand sleighride to the St. Joseph Farm on Tuesday last. A fine table was set for them by those at the larm, and a good time was enjoyed by all who
took the ride. The Minims are thankful for the self-sacrificing exertions made for their entertainment.	>
—New-Year’s Day was agreeably spent at Notre Dame. / In the morning the usual calls were made on Very Rev^/ Father General, Very Rev. Father Provincial, and the Very Rev. President of the College. The annual faculty banquet having been abolished a few years ago, was not given.
—The Minims spent the holiday evenings very pleasantly in their study-hall. They had a piano there, and as some of the Minims are able to manipulate the keys pretty well, and also to sing a nice song, the time passed cheerfully. The Minims seem to appreciate music, especially vocal music.
—Mr. J. E. McDonald, U. S. Senator, has our thanks for the following donations to the College Library: "Public Documents, Memorial Addresses, Life and Character of Oliver P. Morton,” January 17th and 18th, 1878; “Lifeand Character of Michael C. Kerr,’’ December 16th, 1876, and February 27th, 1877; “Lite and Character of Henry Wilson, Vice-President.”
—The students who went home to Chicago during the holidays are under obligations lor favors received to Mr. Frank Parmelee, proprietor of the Omnibus Line and Baggage Express, No. 156 Dearborn Si., Chicago. Mr. Michael McGarry, ot this establishment, who has been employed as agent for twenty-three years, showed them every attention. Mike is one of the best men living.
—On account of peculiar circumstances, we are obliged to go to press earlier now than in former years; hence we request all correspondents to do us the f.ivor of sending in their items as early in the week as possible. Hereafter, except under extraordinary circumstanci s, we will accept no items after Thursday morning. We hope that everyone will remember this, and act accordingly.
—We are happy to be able to state that there was no foundation for the rumor circulating at Noire Dame during the past week that Prof. Stace’s personal property and real estate had been entirely destroyed in the recent fire at South Bend. The Professor’s numerous friends will be delighted to learn that the historic “ Corduroys ” have not been seriously damaged, and are likely to do good service for many years to come. Long may they wave!
—The young fellows in the Junior Department got up a grand Christmas tree, the fruit of which was distributed last New-Year’s Day. Among the many things received that evening from the tree were oranges, gold pens, apples, fine books, slippers, a silver watch, anu any number of other things. A barrel of apples was also given away. Nearly all the priests, professors and prefects at Notre were present at the distribution of the gifts. .
—Very Rev. Father General instead of sending Santa Claus, visited the Minims himself at Christmas. He sent beiore^him a large box of candy which he distributed among his little friends with his own hand. The Minims z' have received mauy such favors from Very Rev. Father General during the year, for which he has their heartfelt thanks and their fervent and affectionate wishes that he may live to see twenty-five other happy returns of the New-Year.
—At early Mass on Christmas morning, Missa Parcu-lorum was sung for the first time by the newly.established choir ot St. Patrick’s Chui ch, South Bend. The gentlemen acquitted themselves well, aud gave promise of forming, in future time, a well-organized official choir. In the evening solemn baptism was conferred on Mrs. J. Tieanor. Besides the congregation, there was quite a number of strangers assembled to witness this beautiful ceremony. An eloquent sermon on “Baptism” was preached by the pastor, Rev. P. Lauth, C. S. C.
—The merry little Minims had a sleighride to town on Christmas Day. They visited the grand new depot, lately built and just opened by the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Company. Mr. Giddings, the gentlemanly Agent of the L. S. & M. S. Company was very kind to his young visitors, and they wish their tnanks conveyed through the columns of the Scholastic. The Minims also visited the ruins at the scene ot the late fire, which, being covered with ice, presented a novel, picturesque and rather Icelandic spectacle,—so much so that Mr. Bonny took some photographic views.

288)	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Two young gentlemen of the Senior Department have had a great desire to visit a certain room ou the 4th landing in the College, in fact the room just to the west of that occupied by the genial Prof, of Elocution. Found in the room, they got grand bounce; but, nothing daunted, they succeeded in climbing over the transom. Found out, the transom was nailed. The next day the ever-vigilant guardian of the landing found the young gentlemen, with the transom broken in, crawling over the door. As the g. b. was again administered, it is said that they have declared that they wouldn’t go to the room now even if they could.
A. McDevitt, C. M. Crowe, A Hartrath, F. Omer, O. J. Farrelly, P. Fitzgerald, J. MeGrath, F. X. Campau, C. Garrick, C. McGrath, N. Nelson, H. C. Snee, C. J. Welty, L. Young, A Schmiickle, T. McGrath, J. Crowe, J. Chaves, W. V. O’Malley, F. B. Farrelly, A. J. Campau, P. Campau.
Uranine.
This is the most recently discovered, and perhaps the most remarkable, of all the coal, tar or aniline group of coloring substances, now so extensively used for the adornment ot the finest fabrics. Uranine is said, by chemists, to be the most highly fluorescent body known to science. Its coloring power is astonishing; a single grain will impart a marked color to nearly five hundred gallons of water. A most interesting experiment, which any body may try, consists in sprinkling a few atoms of uranine upon the surtace of water in a glass tumbler. Each atom immediately sends down through the water what appears to be a bright green rootlet; and the tumbler soon looks as if it were crowded full of beautilul plants. The rootlets now begin to enlarge, spread and combine, until we have a mass of soft green-colored liquid. Viewed by transmitted light, the color changes to a bright golden or amber hue; while a combination ot green and gold will be realized according to the position in which the glass is held. For day or evening experiment, nothing can be piettier than these trials ot uranine, which aie especially entertaining for the young folks. We are indt bled for examples of the color to the editors of the Scientific American, who are sending ont specimens, free of cuarge, to all their readers. The subscription to the paper is $3 20 for a year, or $1.60 half year; and a better investment lor the money could hardly be named.
Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, James P. Brice, J. M. Byrne, J. J. Coleman, G. P. Cassidy, Thos. F. Conlan, Win. Connolly, F. W. Cavanaugh, Ed. Calkins, W.E. Carpenter, E. Dempsey, M. Doty. P. J. Dougherty, L. J. Evers, M. English, M. J. Hogan, J. C. Herrmann, J. T. Harrison. J. P. K’nney, J. M. Carroll, J. R. Kelly, R. E. Keenan, M. Laughlin, P. B. Larkin, F. Keller, W. J. Murphy, J. B. McGrath, C. W. Hickerson, M. J. McCue, M. J. McEniiy, Thos. Mackey. R. C. O’Brien, Wm. O Brien, Wm. Ryan, R. D. Stewart, T. 8. Summers, J. J. Shugrue, T. W. Simms, John Simms, A. Scheiber, P. Shea, P. H. Vogle, F. Williams, F. X Wal), J. Q. Johnson, S. P. Terry, John Thompson, S. T. Spalding, J. B. Berteling, Thos. Barrett.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. P. Adams, J. G. Brady, J. M. Boose, J. C. Casey, B. A. Casey, P. C. Crowley, G. C. Castanedo, A. A. Caren, O. C. Eigholz, R. L. French, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever,* J. Kurz, E. Murphy, T. F. McGrath. J. L. Morgan, J. L. Nelson. J. A. O’Donnell, G. A Orr, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, D. R. Reidy, A. S. Rock, J. A. Seeder,* J. K. Schoby, R. P. Williams, A. F. Zahm, R. E. McCarthy, G. H. Donnelly, A B. Mergemheim, A. Manning, A. S. Manning, A Piekenbrock, A. Rietz, C. Rietz, W. Rietz. .
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
December 26th, 1878.t
W. A McDevitt, C. McGrath, F. P. Brady, C. L. Garrick, A. Hartrath, F. Orner, C. Crowe, T. Williams, J. S. McGrath, P. 8. Fi’zgerald, J. S. Courtney, J M. Courtney, F. Farrelly, W. V. O’Malley, A. Schmiickle, G. Woodson, L. Young, J. Chaves, C. Long, J. Crowe, N. Nelson, P. Campau, F. X Campau, J. Gordon, C. Welty, A. Rheinboldt, H. Snee, T. McGrath.
January 2d, 1879.
J. Gordon, G. Woodson, J. S. Courtney, J. M. Courtney, W.
• The names of F. H. Grever and J. A Seeger were omitted by mistake in last week’s Roll of Honor.
f This Roll of Honor was handed in too late for insertion last week.	-
—Sunday afternoon the Minims from Notre Dame, with their Prefect, walked over to see the Crib, and stayed for Vespers.
—On Christmas Day, Mother Superior received the pupils in the Academy parlor. An address was read by Miss S. Papin, gracefully supported by Misses E. Papin and M. Chaves, whose bright little eyes shone with merriment at the bare idea that they were the representatives of the whole Academy. Mother, in her own sweet manner, received the heartfelt greetings of each, and “Merry, merry Christmas” became a reality.
—Among the. visitors during the week were Mr. Foote, of Evanston, Wyoming; Miss Eva Foote, South Bend; Miss Annie Lloyd and Miss F. Lloyd, of Muskegon, Mich.; Miss E. S. Hake, of Grand Rapids, Mich.; Miss M. A. O’Brien, of Vicksburg, Mich.; Miss M. Holland, of Waukesha, Wis.; Mrs. Papin, of St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. Cyrus J. Pagin, of Decorah, Iowa; and Mr. and Mrs. Russell, of Fond-du-Lac, Wisconsin.
—In the evening of Christmas Day two large trees were discovered in the recreation-room. Of old it was said a “ tree is known by its fruit,” but the various products of these two trees would pizzle any but a Sc. Mary’s botanist. After a long look of admiration, the Juniors began to classify the heterogeneous fruit into four divisions—the eatable, the wearable, the useful, and the ornamental; at this point St. Nicholas arrived with his prancing reindeer, and, greeting Mother Superior and the guests in his accustomed manner, ordered a distribution instanter,—an order so promptly obeyed that in a short lime every person was rich in the possession of flocks of sheep, and geese; apples, potatoes, and pickles of sascharine taste—but it is useless to try' to enumeiate ibis or either of the other divisions,— suffice to say all were satisfied. Mother Superior then inquired what particular favors she should grant during the recreation-days, and long sleeps, sleigh rides, candypulling, etc., etc., came in quick response. So the week has passed in morning classes, music, drawing, etc., and the afternoons free to the pupils’ own choice.
—Christmas was spent very pleasantly; but amid all the festivities the spirit of Bethlehem reigned supreme. All hearts felt the presence of the Infant Jesus, and re-j >iced with a religious joy. Midiight Mass was sung by Rev. Father Shortis, at which Holy Communion was given,—the gift of Christ Himself, the “Emmanuel.” The Chapel was decorated as usual; the Crib was a blaze of light; an angel, bending over the large picture (painted by one of the Sisters in charge of the Art Department) representing the mystery of the day, held in his hand a scroll with the words “ Gloria in excdsis Deo.” The choir caught the spirit, and cheerily responded. Among the fl >ral offerings was an elegant basket of natural flowers, presented by Miss Gordon; the fragrance of the roses filled the sanctuary. In front, extending about twelve feet, and in eh-ven rows, burned colored lamps, which reflected the brilliant hues of the Confraternity banners hanging around, and thus appeared to be multiplied to hundreds. Rev. Father Saulnier celebrated two low Masses—all so well-timed that everyone could satisfy her devotion without omitting a duty. He also sang the High Mass at 8 o’clock. Rev. Father Shortis preached on “The profit Christians should make by the Festivals of the year.” Vespers and Benediction closed the day. Owing to the extreme cold, our venerated Father General was absent, which was the only regret of this happy Christmas Day. The little children’s Christmas carol is always the most touching incident: their simple strain, so quaint in its numbers, coming after the Mass, is so suggestive of prayer that all hearts pour forth a spontaneous act of thanksgiving.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	289
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Miss Sarah Moran.
1st Sr. Class—Misses Ciara Silverthorn, Mary Danaher, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Sarah Hambleton, Zod Papin.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Mary Brown, Catharine Lloyd, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Angela Ewing.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Lucie Chilton, Alicia Donelan, Annie McGrath, El'a Mulligan, Margaret Carroll, Mary Mulligan.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Marv Mullen, Kathleen , Wells, Mary Fitzgerald, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Minna Loeber, Adelaide Bisby, Caroline Hopkins.	•
2d Prep. Class—Misses Anna Herman, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Laura French, Annie Orr, Ollie Williams, Della Mc-Kerlie, Caroline Gall, Margaret Cleghorn, Mary Hake, Mary ^.Ludwig, Johanna Baroux.
Junior Prep.—Misses EUse Dallas, Mary McFadden, Julia Wells, Maud Casey. Sophie Papin, Ellen Lloyd.
1st Jr.—Misses Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel, Elise Lavoie, Elizabeth Consadme, Elise Papin, Mary Paquette.
2d Jr.—Misses Jane McGrath, Martha Zimmerman.
3d Jr.—Miss Manuelita Chaves.	•
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Genevieve Welsh.
2d Div., 3d. Class—Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner Mary Campbell, Annie McGrath, Mary McGrath, E. Lange.
4th Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Catharine Hackett, Mary Mullen, Jessie Grover.
2d Div.—Misses Kathleen Wells, Caroline Gall, Genevieve Winston, Kathleen Campbell.
5th Class—Misses Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, Della McKe.rlie, Emma Gerrlsh.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, C. Danaher, Mary Mulligan, Minna Loeber.
6th Class—Misses Mary Hake, Julia Wells, Martha Pampel.
2d Div.—Misses Johanna Baroux. Lucie Chilton, Julia Kingsbury, Catharine Lloyd, Annie Orr, Maud Casey, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas.
7th Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary McFadden, Margaret Ryan, Catharine Ward, Caroline Hopkins, Julia Barnes.
8th Class—Miss Elise Papin.
9th Class—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Martha Zimmerman, Manuelita Chaves. Ada Clarke.
Harp—2d Class—Miss E. Galen.
3d Class—Misses Mary Brown, Mary Campbell.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Silverthorn.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Genevieve Winston, Clara Silverthorn, Catharine Hackett.
5th Class—Misses Mary McGrath, Zoe Papin, Annie McGrath, Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Mary Brown, Catharine Lloyd, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Jessie Grover, Elizabeth Kirchner, Lucie Chilton, Emma Gerrish, Alicia Donelan, Margaret Carroll, Mary Mullen, Minna Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Mary Fitzgerald, Adelaide Bisby, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, M»ry Ludwig, Mary Hake, Della McKerlie, Mary Campbell, Annie Herrman, Teresa Zihm, par excellence. Misses E len McGrath, Emma Lange, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Genevieve Winston, Genevieve Welch, Caroline Hopkins, Martha Pampel.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Marie Dallas, Ellen Mulligan, Mary Feehan, Annie Orr, Johanna Baroux. Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Ada Clarke, Jessie Pamnel, Jane McGrath, Edse Lavoie, EPza-beth Cousadine, Elise Papin, Mary Paquette, Martha Zimmerman, Manuelita Chaves, par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan, Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn. Mary McFadden, Catharine Campbell, Elise Dallas, Sophie Papin,"Ellen Lloyd.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical a^d Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
jsy The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditab'y through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music cr in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gi'mour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal lor French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented, by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
NOW READY.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1879
CTS.
Table of Contents:
Introduction,
Our Predictions for 1878, Astrological Predictions for
1879,
Names and Titles, Days of Obligation, Days of Abstinence, Eclipses for 1879, Movable Feasts, Rates of Postage, An Astronomical Myth, Calendars,Astronomical and
Ecclesiastical,
Wild Flowers,
The Court of Charlemagne, At Our Wit’s End, Our Alma Mater, Indirect Egotism,
To Signor Gregori, Good Books, Some Curious Words, The Catechism, Purple Days,
Napoleon on the Divinity of Christ,
Mutability, An Evening Picture, " The Papacy, The Things of God, Grasshoppers, Shall it Ever be Thus? , Wolves in the Street, • Hens^ and Their Poetical
Lays,
Berenice’s Hair.
Address
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Ind.
290
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN FOR 1879.
The Sun will be printed every day during: the year to come Its purpose and method will be the same as in the past: To present all the news in a readable shape, and to tellj.he truth though the heavens fall.
The Sun has been, is, and will continue to be indenendent of evervboly and everything save the Truth ard its own convictions of duty. That is the only kind of nolicy which an honest newsnaper need have. That is the. nolicy wh'ch has won for this newspaper the confidence and friendship of a wider constituency than was ever enjoyed by any other American Journal'
The Sun i« the newspap-r for the people. It is not. for the rich wan,against the poor man, or for the poor man against the rich man but it seeks to do equal justice to all interests in the communi’y. It is not the organ of any person, class, sect or party. There need be no mystery about its loves and hates. It is for the firmest man against the rogues everytime. It is for the honest Democrat as against the dishonest Republican, and for the honest Republican as against the dishonest Democrat. It does nnt take its cue from ihe utterances of any politiciah o political organization. It gives its support unreservedly w en men or measures are in agreement with the Constitution and with the principles upon which this Republic was founded for the. people. Whenever the Constitution and constitutional principles are violated—as in the outrageous conspirscv of 1876. by which a man not elected was placed in the President’s office, where he still remains—it speaks out for the right. That is The Sun’s idea of independence. Tn this respect there will be no change in its programme for 1879.
The Sun has fairly earned the hearty hatred of rascals, frauds and humbugs of all sorts and sizes. It hopes to deserve tha' hatred not less in the year 1879. than in 1878, 1877, or anv year gone bv. The Sun will continue to shine on the wicked with unmi’igated brightness.
While the lessons of Ihe past should be constantly kept before the people. The Sun does not propose to make itself in 1879 a magazme of ancient history. It is printed for the men and wo men of to-day, whose concern isch'efly with the affairs of to dav. It has both the disposition and the ability to afford its readers the promptest, fullest, and most accurate intelligence of whatever in the wide world is worth attention. To this end the resources belonging to well-established prosperity will be liberally emploved.
The present disjointed condition of parties in this country, and the uncertainty of the future, lend an extraordinary significance tn the events of the coming year. The discussions of the press, the debates and acts of Congress, and the movements ol the lepders in every section of the Repub'ic. will have a direct bearing on the Presidential election of 1880—an event which must he regarded with the most anxious interest by every patriotic Americin, whatever his political ideas or allegiance. To these elements of interest may be added the probability that the Democrats will control both houses of Congress, ihe increasing feebleness of the fraudn'ent Administration, and the spread and strengthening everywhere of a healthy abhorrence of fraud in any form. To present wi’h accuracy and clearness the exact situation in each of its varying phases, and to expound, according to its well-known methods, the principles that should guide us through the labyrinth, will be an important part of The Bun’s work for 1879.
We have the means of making The Sun, as a political, a literary and a general newspaper, more entertaining and more useful than ever before; and we mean to apply them freely.
Our rates of subscription remain unchanged. For the Daily Sun, a four page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, (postpaid) is 55 cents a month, or $6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eight page sheet of fifty six columns, the price is 65 cents a month, or §770 a year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished separately at $1.20 a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is $1 a year, postage paid. For clubs of ten sending $10 we will send an extra copy free. Address
I.	W. ENGLAND,
Publisher of The Sun, New York City
PATRICK SHICKEY
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. SHICKBY.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo", West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express... ..8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation..................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J.	C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Chaklton, Gen. Pass. Agt
University of Notre Dame,

Founded 1842.
Chartered 1844
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds, fn the organization of the bouse everything is provided to secure the health and promotethe intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary tranches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C.S.C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All’Kinds'; of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA,
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	291
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR lof’75]. Civil Engineer of City and
. County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.	;
ARTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for !
St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
THE C ATHOLIC COLUMBIAN. pub’ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame's students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, or '70.
THE A.VE MikRIA, a Catholic Journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, pub’ished every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
THE BONO HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop.,Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and trom all Trains for Guests of the House.
THEMATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EO>V A_Tt O E*. IPLYjVDC, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CikLLING C ARDS-no two alike, with name ZitJ neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BnONVIN Zte HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MLTCFT'ETEC IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
TITOV!AS T5. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FATNiNTiNGl & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOH1V I71- Vic ITU & IT I of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of’741, Attornevs at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.	•
0TLVTT/L13 T. CHAMBER LATW (of ’61) Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, % Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE & NZTI^Tu ATtT> (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68k Att’y" at Law, Solicitor* in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WTZJTJT A M J. CL 4 TtK.E (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES a. O’TL’ETIuTL Y-of ’69 —Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOLTIN’ T>. NTcCOrtATICK—of ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
D aniel b. hib bard, jr., (of ’79), circuit Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold Detroit, Michigan.	sep 14-ly
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo!! 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 10 10 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12 16 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Une; arrives at Toledo 540 p m. Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4 am.
O 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am: Cleveland, 7 65 am; Buffalo,! 10 pm.
4 50and4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 am, Chicago 6 a m.
8^5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago
4 50 pm. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend-
J. W. CARY, Genu Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div.. Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.				
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9.-3 u 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3.20 p.m. 2.31 “ 2.08 *• 1.44 “ L7 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 1P.47 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 9.13 “ 8.3i “ 7.25 “	Arrive	Leave. - .- Michigan City, - -- - - - La Porte, - - -- - - SiU'well, ---- - - - V a’ker on, - - -- - - P ymou h, - -- - - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - - - - - - Peru, ■ - - -- - Bunker Hill. - - -- - Kokomo Junction, - -- - - - Tipton,- - - -- - - Noblesv'lle, - - -•- - Indianapolis, - - - - - - - Cinc nnat-, - - -- - - Louirville, - - - - -	Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10 45 “ 11.10 “ 1'.47 “ 12 40 p.m 1.17 “ 2 00 “ 2.22 “ 3(4) “ 3.38 “ a.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 p.m. 8 55 “ 9.29 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 1132 “ 1212 a.m. 1240 “ 1.01 “ 135 “ 216 “ 3 62 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 «.m-“	*• 9.U0 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Pern 3.50 p. m.
“	‘‘	1119 “	. - -	“	«• 3 55 a.m.
WOODRUFF S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
{^"Berths §1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according1 to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis. Gen’l. Manager, ludianapolia
C. POLACK,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DEALER IN
Cigars and Tobaccos,
and a full line of smoker’s articles. Sole Agents for the Columbus 5 ct. Cigars, warranted Handmade and Long Havanna filled. Give them a trial.
Sign of the Big Indian.
101 Main St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
292
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE. .
TimeTable-Nov 11, 1877.
	♦Mall	•Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t-xisht Express. 19 no p m 1 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson. . Ar. Detroit		7 no a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.w 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05:“ f. 30 “	4 no p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jac < son Express. 5 40 a.m R 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 3'1 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a m 3 35 “	
	•Mail	•uay Express.		+ 1*80160 Express.	JEven’ng Fxpres®.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago.	7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.n 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.r 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 On “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and South Bend Division.	
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8f2 •	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. bv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Rend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.
^Saturday and °nnday excepted.
Henkt C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard.
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen'l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side).
On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail. ■
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 P.M.	900 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6 00 A.M.
Rochester,		12.53 a.m.	10.12 “	2.55 “	7.45 “
Alliance,		3 10 “	1250 p.m.	535 “	1100 “
Orrville,		450 «	2.26 “	7.13 “	12 55 P.M.
Mansfield,		7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	515 “	945 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7 50 a.m.	5 40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,		925 “	7 35 “	11.25 “	
Lima..'.		10 40 “	9.00 “	12 25 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,		120 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,		350 “	246 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago, .1	Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	758 “	
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan. Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
la the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAT AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac. Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country.' Its
. FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its	.
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine. Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM.CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office. No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office. 245 Farnham Street: San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlees-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, comer Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	.	'
W- H. Stknnett,	Marvin Hughitt,
' Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, A tian. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,		9 10 p.m. 2.46 am. 6 55 “ 8 55 “ 1010 “ 11.45 “	8 30 a.m. 11.48 “ 225 p.m. 4.20 “ 527 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 855 “ 11.30 “ 1 30 a.m.	•-»
Ft. Wayne,					
Lima,					
Forest,				233 “ 4.05 “	
Crestline,	Arrive				
				
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,...		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4 15 A.M. 455 “ 7 00 “ 9.00 “ 1106 “ 12 15 P.m.	6 05 A.M. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 1120 “ 2.00 P.M. 3.30 “
Orrville,....,						
Alliance,					
Rochester,’					
Pittsburgh,	Arrive				
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex- -cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. HYEBS, G- P & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YOEK to QUEENSTOWN ani LIVEEPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
-9»'
Tons.	Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 54911 CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITYOF RICHMOND,4607 I CITY OF NEW YORK. 3500 '
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 I CITY OF PARIS. 3080
CITYOF MONTREAL, 4490 | CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Pateage Agent, oct5-tf LaPorte, Indiana;