‘ The Scholastic.
'	pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE JStUDENTS.
;	“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”	-
I Volume VI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 1, 1873.	Number 21.
Cramming in College.
BY 0. S.
The Lafayette Mfmthly of October, 1872, contains an article, written by S. 0. B., in which the so-called cratn-mir g process is criticized. We propose to take up the discussion of this interesting subject, and to prove from the nature of the human mind, as well as from the nature of the various branches of science, that cramming, properly understood, is necessary for every student, in as much as it furnishes the mind with the material upon which it is to exercise its higher functions, the functions of comparing, judging, combining, and reasoning. If by cramming you mean the stuffing of the mind with incongruous matter—or if you mean by it a hasty, unmethodical, and disorderly process of studying—or an overstraining of the mental faculties by excessive tasks—we should never undertake to plead for it. But stripping this term of all notions of disorder and excess, and retaining those of labor and effort on the part of both pupils and teachers, we take it simply in the sense in which Sbakspeare used it, when he wrote:
“ Storehouses crammed, with grain;” that is, filled to their utmost capacity. This agrees with the common definition given by Webster, to wit: “ qualifying for public examination by special preparation;” in wh’ch the words “ special preparation ” imply the compelling “a student toprepare and recitea great amount of text, not indeed to the exclusion of thought on the subject, but, it may be, to the prevention or limitation of much untimely outside w< rk, such as pertains to literary societies, contributions to college periodicals, and, we might add, theatrical p.erforn ; nces, etc.”
The te.m “Education,” as applied to the intellect only (leaving out its relation to the heart and will), means, 1st, The process of imparting or receiving knowledge; 2d, The result of this process: Knowledge acquired. The etymological signification of the word education is not to draw knowledge ft om the mind (for there is none, unless it be firs: put ii ), bi t to arouse, draw out, and guide the dormant faculties of the mind, by presenting to it the subject matter of the varicus branches of science for consideration, appropriation, digestion and reproduction.
The not on prevailing among some students entering college, that they have “ an empty space somewhere in the head, which they intend to fill in the four years, to draw from hereafter,” is a perfectly correct one; let them follow it up faithfully, by cramming, not to the exclusion of thought on the subjec*, if you please, and they shall win the coveted prize, the r suit of mental education,—to wit knowledge, and abundance of thought; while, on the other hand, the stu
dent who imagines that all the riches of wisdom lie already bundled up at the bottom of his mind, awaiting only a gentle development and drawing forth at the hands of his Professors, will be sadly mistaken.	.
We will now proceed to show, from the nature of the human mind, that cramming furnishes the mind with the material upon which it has to exercise its higher functions.
Sound psychology teaches, and experience proves it, that the human mind, although endowed with certain faculties to appropriate knowledge, and capable of performing certain functions to reproduce and combine it, is at the beginning nothing but a blank—carteblanche—from which nothing can: be drawn, unless something be first placed therein. In this respect it may be likened to a field, which must forever remain sterile unless it receive the seed necessary to bring forth fruit; or to an empty storehouse, which is of no use unless filled with grain; or to the sensitive plate of the pho-, tographer’s camera obscura, which will show no image until struck by the rays of light from without. Comparisons might be multiplied, but let these suffice. Indeed, knowledge does not originate in the mind: it comes from without, through the medium of the senses. There is no such thing as innate ideas, or original thought, properly so called. There would be no knowledge of God, unless He had manifested Himself to man, in various ways, but always through the senses; no knowledge of good and evil, and of course, no knowledge of the material world around us, but through the medium of our senses. Lit a human being, from the day of his birth to the full age of manhood, be confined to a dark, solitary place, shut off from all communication with the outside world; the range of his ideas will not go beyond the walls of his cell and the few objects placed therein; and. if rescued, he will show the body of a m in, and the mind, voice, and manners of a babe, as was the case with the .unfortunate Caspar Hauser, a descendant of the Dukes of Baden. 'Examples of this kind might be multiplied indefinitely : we could point to the Hottentot, whose compass of ideas cannot go beyond the few roots on which he feeds; or to the Feejee Islander, whose .principal notion is the taste for human blood and flesh, etc.; but, cui bono ? we have only to point to the many persons, here as elsewhere, whose ignorance prove that the wonderful, sensitive, and elastic blank with which the Creator has endowed their minds has been filled up only imperfectly, and often with the wrong kind-of material. The human mind is a blank, which, generally, after the first year of life, fills up wonderfully fast, and almost spontaneously, with the impressions received from the world around us. These impressions, conveyed through, and from the senses, in a mysterious way, to the mind, produce perception and apprehension; the mind takes hold of them, distinguishes them from one another, and what was
162	THE SCHOLASTIC.
an image before, thrown into the mind from the outside world, has now become a notion, an idea; and remains the property of the mind by its retentive faculty, the memory. Now these ideas are the raw material upon which the mind performs its higher functions; comparing idea with idea, we judge; comparing many ideas, we are led to generalization and abstraction; and c .nbining judgment with judgment, we perform the highest function of our intellectual faculties, that of reasoning and inventing. These are but the outlines of the operations of the human mind, and by them we must be guided in our system of education. Ideas are frequently incomplete or faulty, and need to be corrected, improved, refined; consequently, also, judgments and reasoning. The proper time for gathering up a rich harvest of ideas, and storing them away in that wonderfully elastic house of memory, is the spring of life, up to the twentieth year, although it will continue in a diminishing degree for many years longer; and if seemingly the youthful powers of apprehension and memory fade away with old age, we know that they will be wonderfully revived; and not one idea, either for good or for evil, shall be lost.
The time at which the power of judgment commences to be fully developed, will hardly ever come before the twentieth year; and a man is said to be of age when he arrives at that period: although many do not reach it before the fortieth, and some never. Judgments, of course, are formed also in younger years,—but they pass for what they are worth, childish, puerile, juvenile, unripe judgments. Exceptions there are, but few, and far between. If sound judgment comes in slowly, still more slowly comes sound reasoning, which is the domain of fully developed manhood; hence the German proverb:
“Die Alten zum Rath, die Jungen zur That.”
And, perhaps, some of our young readers will scratch their ears to find out what that means. And now returning to ideas, which are the proper domain of youth, we inquire where do we get them? First of all, at home, sweet home, —from dear mother and father, and brothers, sisters and friends, and from all the little and big things about the house and garden, about village and town, about the rivers and mountains, the fields and the forests; next from church and school, from good and evil company, in fact everywhere. The more you see and hear, the more ideas will you get; hence travelling, visiting foreign countries, mingling with different nationalities, has always been looked upon as conducive to a finished education. New ideas are thereby created, old ones modified, improved, refined. But among the chief means of gathering and refining ideas, accessible to everybody, are schools and colleges; and now, after all, we are drawing near the cramming process, which is nothing else than the filling of the human mind, to its utmost capacity, with correct, clear, and well-defined ideas, systematically arranged, and laid up for further use; the sowing of the seed of knowledge, not sparingly, but broadcast over the blank fields of the mind; the laying up of rich supplies of grain, wherewith to make flour and bread in the time of need; “ the filling up of an empty space somewhere in the head, to draw from it hereafter."
And who could afford to be without ideas; or to have only a scanty supply thereof; or be provided with a collection of crude, confused and erroneous notions? And who, being thus poorly and scantily supplied, would venture out into the deeper waters of judgment, or plunge into the vast ocean of reasoning, but men of the stamp of
A.A.B., talking about 1517 and 1789, calling the infallibility of the Church and its Head “ a stagnation in the Dead Sea,” and praising the good people of the Commune. (See Lafayette hfonthly, Vol. IH, No 2, pp. 33,34.) It may be very plasant, at times, to make a little Buncombe speech in a Literary Society, borrowing, perhaps, body and dress from some good or evil friend of the library; or to compile some cant phrases and let off a little thunder and lightning against Papal infallibility; but it would be more useful to acquire, first, correct ideas about such matters and wait a little, until these ideas have by time and digestion become our own property, before we launch forth hasty judgments and swell up with irrelevant arguments. .
The foundation of all sound judgment and solid reasoning, then, being a rich supply of correct, clear, and well-defined ideas, together with adequate language to express them, we must work in our schools and colleges to that effect, lest we “ put the cart before the horse?’ A well-regulated energy, and a methodical perseverance in appropriating such ideas, by studying our lessons regularly and well; by listening attentively to the Professor’s discourses, lectures, or explanations; by making written memorandums of what we may have seen, heard or read; by going over as much text as we may be able; by reading books to the purpose; and last, but not least, by a systematic drill of our memory, which must be strengthened and enriched through that dreadful process called “ learning by heart”—to the limitation—and, if necessary, prevention—of much untimely outside work, such as pertains to literary societies, periodicals, etc.,—is what we call “ cramming ” ; and no student can afford to do without it. We cannot, with Alex, von Humboldt, behold the wonders of the Amazon, or ascend the lofty peaks of the Cordilleras ; neither can we, with Dr. Livingstone, explore the sandy deserts of Africa, or with Prof. Agassiz sound the depths of California’s Gulf; but we may, without leaving our quiet study-halls, by means of books and charts, maps and pictures, museums and apparatuses, and sundry other things pertaining to colleges, particularly cramming—appropriate to ourselves the results of their investigations (without blindly following all their theoretical conclusions), and thus we may acquire tolerably fair and correct ideas of objects which otherwise would be beyond our reach. Nor can we hold personal intercourse with Moses and Pythagoras, the gigantic minds of past ages, the philosophers and orators of Greece, the statesmen and.warriors of Rome; but led by the hand of History we may march back through thousands of years, even to the gates of Paradise ; and, on the way thither, cram our minds with a rich harvest of ideas either for good or for evil, according to our desires. Standing before the gates of Paradise, however, Histoiy will also tell us that she cannot open them, the keys having been lost some five or six thousand years ago near some tree, and that not quite two thousand years ago they were restored to St. Peter, who has kept them ever since, much to the disgust of those who do not like to cram their minds with the useful and solid information with which history can furnish them.
But to sum up and come to the conclusion of the first part of our argument: The human mind is a blank, receiving its ideas (thinking material) from without, through the senses (mainly through the eye and ear), either by observation directly from the objects, or indirectly by instruc
THE SCHOLASTIC.	-	1M
tion and testimony; hence “ cramming,” which is essentially a filling-in process, must precede the drawing-out process, and therefore is necessary to education also all profound thinking and reasoning must be postponed until there be a sufficient stock of clear ideas and coirect information ; all of which may be shown equally well from the nature of the sciences themselves; and this we propose to do in our next article.	’
Sind Words.
There are chords in each heart That respond to each sigh, .	Each kind, loving word
And bright smile of joy,—
1 -	As shade or as sunshine
Upon the world may fall ,	To sadden, to brighten,
To shroud, or to pall.
Oh, the voice of past kindness!
How sweetly ’twill start In loving remembrance Again to the heart, Bringing back sunshine
From days that are fled, And kindling the embers
Of love that seemed dead.
Oh there are words
We may never forget, That fell from fond lips
Now faded in death : Sweet words of comfort, Of courage and cheer, Which e’er round the heart '	As a garland we’ll wear.
How sweet were this world, As onward we rove, -	Were hearts that we met
Full of kindness and love;
No longer we’d call it
•	- Lonely and drear,
Were there smiles for the eyes . , And kind words for the ear.
Then speak a kind word
•	And bestow a sweet smile
As onward you journey,
■	- ,'For small is the toil;
’Twill cheer the lone pilgrim, And forgetting all care
He’ll think of, with blessing, Your sweet tribute there.
■	St. Mary’s, St. Joseph Co., Indiana.
Sydney Smith could appreciate a good pun when he heard it. In Mrs. Hamilton’s “ Lectures on Education,” a story is told of a school girlwho, during her examination, persisted in miscalling the word patriarchs “ partridges.” “ Oh,” was the comment of an auditor, she makes “ game of the patriarchs!” The witty canon characterized this as the most perfect pun he knew.
A New York Minister, preaching a funeral sermon of a famous skater, the other day, said he had “ gone where there is no ice.” That was capable of very serious interpretation.
“ Ezcelsior.”	.
If there is a single word which simultaneously exhibits the inclinations, destiny, and ultimate end of man, and which points out his duty, aspirations and promptings, it is certainly the simple but sublime word “Excelsior."
There is something in the mere sound of the word which strikes us as at once grand and imposing—something which makes us feel as though we would wish to be always repeating it, and in the simple imagination of the word, strive for the glorious frutis of the reality. -
Once under its influence, no satisfaction is known until the highest point which it implies is reached, for the attainment of its lesser objects seems to be the fuel by which it is fed, and from which spring the fire and energy with which it endows us.
In it the scholar sees the end of all his labors; and when he sets out in life it is always before him, fluttering and impatient, ever enticing him to soar from those unlimited bounds, up, up through the dense expanse of adversity, until he takes his stand upon the highest and brightest peaks of glory; as he stretches forth his hand to grasp it, he sees it mount higher and higher and beckon him to follow. Who could resist its power if he would, and who would if he could ? None. Thus it is he struggles after it, having only to cast his eyes upon its golden letters to be filled with that perseverance which is so necessary to surmount all obstacles. He follows, and step by step he mounts the ladder of fame; and though he may often lose his foothold and be cast down, yet it does not forsake him, but descending again to his assistance, it animates him by its cheerful presence to new and greater exertions. As he ascends, his whole mind is occupied by this one object, while his ear is delighted as if by the music of light zephyrs—seeming to whisper in their sweetest accents this one word, “ Excelsior."
In the field of blood as well as in the field of politics, it has served to animate the drooping heart of man. Napoleon and Alexander, in their wild career of glory, made it their secret motto. It was their only thought and their greatest stimulant. Their hearts pronounced the word, and their deeds reverberated with its echoes.
“ Excdsior ! ” exclaims the minister of God, as he points out to his flock their sovereign good and their ultimate end. “Excelsior !” sang the martyrs of old, and they were filled with hope and courage to pass through the ordeal of death, to glory beyond. “Excelsior I” murmurs the patriot, as he bids farewell to all he loves, and departs, a venturer on the sea of life. “ Excelsior ! ” shouts forth the statesman, as he bears aloft the destinies of his nation, the fete of millions in the hands of a few. “Excelsior !” burst forth the voice of ancient Greece, and the world still wonders at her achievements. “ Excdsior!" exclaimed Columbus, and a giant nation sprung up on the shores of the western world.
It is a word full of meaning, comprising everything that is grand and noble; it is a word which has been used, with signal success, where hope and courage were wanting,—a word which causes the soul to burst from its prison-house of clay, and soar through the stormy portals of the world, until it occupies in anticipation its preordained felicity.
Oh, let us inscribe it as a motto on our hearts, and hope that in the end we may find a resting place where it is sung in joyful chorus by the “ blessed.” Myself.
St. Joseph’s College, Memramcook, N. B.
164
THE SCHOI/ASTIc.
Th®
Published every Weelc during Tenn Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should, he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: One year...........................$2 00
One session (5 months)............. 1 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.	-
We call attention to the advertisement of the Cincinnati Enquirer, as one of the best Democratic dailies, if not the best, in the West. Subscribers in the College and South Bend receive the daily one day after its publication. The delay in getting the telegraphic news is more than counterbalanced by the excellent correspondence from Washington, and the Editorials, which in tone as well as ability are not to be equalled by the dailies printed nearer to us.
Soil of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week peceding the given date.}
FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 1873.
Senior Department.
F. Buter, W. Briant, A. Blong, C. Berdel, M. Bastaraehe, R. Boyle, V. M. Baca, Jl Brown, M. Brown, Valerio Baca, J. Begue, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, W. Clarke, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, J. Claffey, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, T. Dundon, J. Eisenman, M. Foote, J. Gillen, E. Gambee, J. E. Hogan, T. Hansard, E. Halpin, F. Hamilton, J. Ireland, P. Jacobs, T. Keenan, F. Leffingwell, J. Lee, J. McGlynn, E. Morancy, D. Maloney, E. Monahan, J. Murphy, J.McAllister, T. Murphy, A. Mooney, J. McCormick, E. McSweeney, J. Noonan, P. O’Meara, P. O’Connell, F. Phelan, C. Proctor, G. Buger, B. Roberts, E. Spitley, G. Stack, F. Scrafford, J. Scherei, A. Taggart, S. Valdez, C. Vinson, T. White, C. Walter, H. Walker, E. Graves, J. Kelly, E. Kimm, T. Watson, H. Zeitler.
Junior Department.
B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, C. Black, P. Brosseau, M. Blake, J. Caren, M. Casey, B. Casey, J. Callaghan, A. Crunkil-ton, J. Dowe, J. Devine, W. Dexter, H. Enneking, J. Ewing, W. Fletcher, G. Fliehmann, C. Furer, G. Gross, J. Grace, W. Green, E. Holt, W. Hake, W. Haney, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, L. Hibben, R. Hutchings, A. Kleine, A. Kreiter, W. Kinzie, W. Meyer, F. McOsker, J. Mullarky, S. McMahon, W. McMahon, S. Marks, W. Morgan, E. Milburn, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, J. McHugh, N. Mooney, J. McGinniss, L. Munn, J. McNulty, J. O’Connell, E. Ohmer, W. Pollard, J. Quill, H. Quan, A. Ried, C. Ried, C. Ruger, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, A. Schmidt, H. Shephard, W. Schulthies, P. Tansey, L. Whitaker, S. Wise, J. Wan-baugh, O. Waterman.
Class Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial . Course; third week, those of the Preparatory ;%tfrth week, Music, Fine.
Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director op Studies.] '	-
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1873.
Senior Department.
A. Kreichgauer, T. Hansard, F. Buter, J. Devine, T. Keenan, F. C. St. Aubin, C. Karst, B. Gorman, E. Spitley, J. McDermott, F. J. St. Aubin, A. Blong, J. McSorley, P. O’Meara, S. Strayer, F. Devoto, C. Donnelly, J. Rourke, J. Kelly, L. Sanders, J. Burnham, F. Scrafford, W. Wallace, F. Miller, J. Murphy, G. Ruger, T. Fitzpatrick, B. Roberts, C. Spears, J. Hoffman, W. Van’t Woud, L. Campeau, J. Brown, M. Brown, P. Lilly, J. Brennan, J. Robins, P. McNaughton, J. Terry, J. Kinney, E. Kimm, J. Flynn, A. Voorhees, J. Begue, J. Lee, L. Hinkston.
Junior Department.
F.	Smyth, A. Kleine, J. Dunn, W. Breen, J. Hackett, T. McGee, J. Carmody, W. Ohlen, C. Hake, W. Hake, J. Marks, L. Whitaker, C. Black, J. Lynch, F. Sweger, H. Mathews, V. Hansen, A. Schmidt, R. Lewis, H. Engledrum, J. Hilliard, W. Schulthies, J. Nelson, E. Holt, G. Fliehman, W. Dexter, W. Morgan, M. Davidson, L. Best, D. Salazar, C. Ried, F. Miller, A. Ried, P. Brosseau, J. Graham, J. McHugh, W. Haney, F. Wcisenber-ger, W. Pollard, W. Kinzie, H. Hoffman, L. Van’t Woud, A. Mitchell, M. Hilliard, D. Claffey, W. McMahon, J. McNally, J. —• Casey, R. Beaudoin, B. Casey, T. McNamara, N. J. Mooney, L. Munn, C. Burger, A. Kreiter, P. Corbett, F. Claffey, J. Nelson, J. Ewing, A. Mulmiller, H. Kinley, C. Casey, H. Shephard, J. O’Connor, B. Baca, J. Tobin, R. Hutchings, J. Daly, J. Callaghan, P. Daly, J. Lavelle.
■ FRIDAY, JANUARY 24.
german.
W. Ball, L. Best, P. Brosseau, H. Beckman, J. Crummey, P. Cooney, T. Culleton, J. Devine, H. Enneking, H. Faxon, Geo. Fliehman, J. Golsen, R. Golsen, J. Hoeveler, J. Hanley, V. Hansen, C. Hake, A. Kleine, W. Kinzie, E. Knowles, C. Karst, J. Langenderfer, F. Miller, J. McHugh, J. McNally, S. Marks, A. Mooney, C. Nirdlinger, P. O’Meara, W. Pollard, C. Ried, W. Rumely, H. Randolph, A. Ried, H. Rinderer, G. Ruger, C. Ruger, E. Schmidt, A. Schmidt, W. Schulthies, F. Scrafford, M. Torbett, L. Van’t Woud, W. Van’t Woud, 0. Waterman, J. Wanbaugh, C. Walsh, S. Wise, H. Walker, W. Hake, H. Nirdlinger, H. Zuber.
FRENCH.
G.	Gross, J. Rofinot, A. Schiffer, F. J. St. Aubin, L. C. Watson.
DRAWING.
V. Culleton, J. Daly, W. Gaar, D. Glickauf, L. Hinkston, C. Hodgson, C. Hake, J. Lynch, R. Kelly, W. Kelly, E. Monahan, J. McIntyre, L. Munn, H. Nirdlinger, J. Porter, W. Rumely, B. Roberts, A. Schmidt, W. Schulthies, A. Schiffer, J. Schmidt, L. Van’t Woud, W. Van’t Woud, O. Waterman, H. Hirsch, A. Horne.
VIOLIN.
F. Miller, J. O’Connell, W. Rumely, J. Noonan, H. Beckman, E. Kimm, J. Brennan, L. Van’t Woud, B. Roberts, J. Lynch, J. McGrath, J. McHugh, L. Loser, W. Kinzie, J. Rourke, R. Lewis, J. McCormick, W. Chapoton, T. Keenan, J. Lambin, C. Burger, J. Hackett.
N. B. We are compelled to omit this week the names of the Piano pupils and those of the class of Oil Painting, for the rea-• son that the teachers of these branches were not present at the meeting of the Faculty when the lists for Class Honors were presented for correction, and we have been.too much occupied with still weightier matters to call upon these gentlemen personally.	Director of Studies.
Jerrold went to a party at which a Mr. Pepper had assembled all his friends. Jerrold said to his host, on entering the room, “ My dear Mr. Pepper, how glad you must be to see all your friends mustered!”	'	*
THE SCHOLASTIC.
’ Fly-Catches. •
Base-ball we think has died out. Though this is a queer time to mention it, yet in former years the clubs would begin to think of organizing about this time; but we have not heard a word about it since last fall. Its health, though good last spring, began rapidly to decline, and thus continued until the time in the fall when the games closed, at which time it was very low and, no doubt this former life of the play-ground has kicked the bucket; if so, let it rip.
Moustaches.—Since the holidays, several new moustaches have been started, of all shades and colors, of every different kind; some are visible a few rods off, others are not; some have a base-ball nine on either side, and an umpire in the centre; some have not a nine altogether; of course we count hairs and fuz alike. However, we feel that we are touching upon a poetical subject, and as our poetic vein gave out last week we will leave the rest to be imagined. It’s a very classic subject.
Improvements.—We are called upon almost daily to chronicle changes and improvements that have been and are now being made about the college and the adjacent buildings. Shutters have been put on the windows in the dormitories; this is a comfortable as well as an ornamental improvement, for owing to some cause or another many of the windows in the building are not tightly fitted, and the cold air is given a means of ready access. And a new study-hall is prepared for the collegiate students.
The hunters still continue their depredations in the neighboring forests, yet we have not heard of any great injury done by them since late last fall, when they killed a woodchuck, which, we understand, is the last enemy that suffered death at their hands. The snow is deep, still they continue. It is thought by some that they will soon begin to “ shoot ” at the tracks which appear upon the snow. However, no doubt, it is not for the game but for the sport of the thing that they will consent to plod through the snow for half a day at a time.
Examination has raged, and is still the subject of conversation. Everyone is anxiously awaiting the announcement of the notes taken of it. Indeed the session has turned “ quickly ’round,” and we now find ourselves at the beginning of a new one. Of course now that Examination is over every body feels much better than he did before; for though there may be nothing bad about it, still most persons take it like medicine—with a gag. One thing is to be remarked, viz., that those who were in the Infirmary during Examination time were mostly sick; there were no backsliders.
Murule.—Great slaughter is being made of the rats; their ranks are already quite thinned, and they cannot bring forth the extensive armies they could some months ago, before Bros. Wilfred and Augustus undertook the command of their enemies and commenced planning ambuscades. Report says that no less than fourteen prisoners, besides a large dog, was captured in one of these; the dog, however, was not executed, but pardoned on swearing fidelity to man and death to ‘rats. The rats were, of course, led forth to slaughter, where they were killed, and that too in the very sight of their friends and kindred; the latter, however, did not as much as ask the bodies of their unfortunate friends. - We think the gentleman who was accus
tomed to visit the study-hall must have been among the “ slewed,” for we have not seen him lately.
Critical.—We don’t like to be critical or satirical, for it is almost always taken as arising not from a good nature, and we would not have you judge us “ thusly” Itis a custom on certain occasions in a certain locality when the inmates of that place see anyone walking through their midst carrying a chair or anything that pertains to the stage, to shout out “ Soup,” and the like unbecoming and it may be uncharitable expressions. Or, perhaps, a neighbor happens to come in: he must immediately be “ hooped up”—as they say. Now we will not criticize, but simply ask the question : Is this gentlemanly f
The Second Session.—Examination is over, and no one feels like seeking relief in the Infirmary. Every one is ready for earnest work. To-day begins the session and the month, and a Literary Entertainment is prepared for the evening. Thus do we usher in the new session in an appropriate manner by giving proof of the intellectual advancement during the past session. The past session has indeed been a prosperous one, and we feel ihat we are not exaggerating in the least when we call it the most prosperous session Notre Dame ever beheld. So far as we can learn, the work accomplished by every class has been highly satisfactory, and the discipline of the students, it seems to us, is much to be commended. That good will which students owe towards the Professors and the officers of the College has been admirable; so well have the affairs of the session just closed been conducted. May the present prove as far superior to the last as did that to the one which preceded it.	•	'
Winter is indeed a monotonous season. The programme is, to the recreation-hall and back, and scarcely ever is there “ anything new ” to attract our attention. The stove with its admirers is a familiar scene. We are always anxious to hail the first snow, but it soon becomes an old story, and indeed it is an old story this winter. For more than three months has the ground been hidden from our sight. We occasionally take a walk down by the boathouse and the Botanical Garden, but not a boat is to be seen upon the blue surface of the lake, which no longer has the “blues,” but is ghastly pale. The vegetation of the garden is withered beneath the snow, and scarcely anything reminds us of the departed beauty which but a few months since was a subject of comment. But some one says spring is coming. Yes, those are cheering words; yet while we anxiously await its coming we cannot but consider the season which is with us a golden season for reaping an intellectual harvest; there is nothing to distract the mind from earnest study.
Chit-Chat—The new boiler has lately sustained a pressure of four atmospheres, so we reckon there need be no apprehension of an explosion under forty or fifty pounds’ pressure; some days it is not needed, while perhaps the very next day will be blustery and cold. Some one has remarked that now the boiler is- refined, the “ drop curtain” in the Exhibition Hall may soon be finished. Indeed it is a splendid affair; yet everybody is watching-it, for say they “we will have ‘rec.’ on the head of that curtain when finished.”. But this has nothing to . do with the “ steam-pipes ” that have lately been added to those in the top dormitory, on the Juniors’ side, which, by the way has been the subject of much conversation. Some, in fine,
166
THE SCHOLASTIC.
have had the “ collegiate students ” quartered up there, no doubt some of them are high in their courses; but we don’t think they are aloft. We do not thinkthat the new boat-house which is projected will affect this materially, still we are not very well instructedas to this forthcoming structure, nor have we seen the architectural drawing of it. No doubt they will have to undergo a trigonometrical examination first.
A Course of Literature.—This is a course that is more popular than one might at first think, for the number of .young persons who follow it is at all times great. Where are not “ Beadle’s Histories” and the like literary productions to be found? Story-books form also another important branch of this course. Its students are, as a rule, more devoted to it than those of any other course. But it often happens that a person who is professedly following one of the other courses is devoting a great part of his time to literature. But the course is now generally recognized, and a person who is reading novels, etc., will, when asked what course he is following, reply that he is taking “ a course of literature.” Another noteworthy characteristic of this course is that you can begin anywhere, and with any of the authors which the nature of the course will allow, and hence it does not require a regular curriculum, of studies. And furthermore, there is no need of admonishing the students to be thorough, for they always are. It has not produced any great men as yet. However, countless suicides, murders, and instances of insanity claim it as a parent.
Going Home.—At the expiration of the session a number of the students departed for home. Some are already gone, and there are some to go yet.
Time from us friends doth sever, It may be for a week, and it may be forever.
But while so many are bidding us a good by, and we in return wishing them a safe passage home, a prosperous and successful life, others are, no doubt, receiving the embraces of their families and are setting out to join us now in the second session. Such is college life; at one time we are all acquainted, and know each other well; at another, we are all strangers to one another.
Strange faces greet us on every side, New knots of friendship are daily tied.
And thus it is that we go on from year to year until our college course is completed. College life is ever fluctuating; always something new; yet when old friends with whom we have spent a pleasant and happy five months are about to leave us, it always causes a cloud to rise which seems for a time to darken the light of day. At this time of the year many go, and as many come. Still, though we love to welcome the stranger to the halls of Alma Mater, and see in him a future friend, we cannot restrain that natural impulse to sadness on the departure of those who are already our friends, and whom we have proved by so many trials. So we say to each one of those who have gone or are about to depart: Farewell, dear fellow-student! may yours be a life of success!
Scandal-mongers are like geese—the more you try to silence them the more they will cackle.
It is said to be a sure sign of an early spring to see a cat watching a small hole in the wall.
The Saint Cecihans.
The 20th and 21st regular meetings were held on the 16th and 20th of January. The time at those meetings was taken up by the debate: “ Resolved, That the Statesman is more beneficial to the Commonwealth than the Warrior.” Those that took part in the debate were L. O. Hibben, W. Ball, W. Breen, J. Quill, F. McOsker, H. Hunt, on the affirmative; and F. Egan, E. Ohmer, J. Langenderfer, W. Fletcher, O. Waterman, E. Dougherty, J. Dunn, and J. Devine, on the negative. Much enthusiasm was kept up during the debate; Masters L. O. Hibben and F. Egan deserve special mention for their well-prepared speeches.
The President summed up the argument and gave his decision accordingly, in favor of the affirmative. After this Master S. Marks presented himself for membership, and after having performed the conditions necessary for admission, was unainimously elected.
W. Breen, Cor. Sec.
The Violin.
In a late number of Brainard? s Musical World we find in answer to an “ Anxious Inquirer ” a very sensible article on that much-abused instrument, the violin, from which we made a short extract, for the encouragement of our numerous hard-working Violinsts, and for the information of the few who belong to the class of which the writer speaks, and who are a drawback to all musical progress:
“ I consider the violin the noblest of all instruments, acknowledging at the same time that to the organ, on account of its association with divine worship, belongs the foremost rank. No instrument will successfully compete with the violin in power, richness and variety of expression. i While on the one hand there exists in this country an undue prejudice against the violin in the minds of many, there is on the other hand more fiddling done under haystacks, in barns, garrets and stables, and in other out-of-the-way places, than in any other country. There exists a deep love for the violin, which would soon ripen into a due appreciation for the instrument were it but properly taught. See the love which this country cherishes for Ole Bull! As yet we have too many fiddlers and too few violinists. Hence the betrayal of ignorance in some would-be critics when saying that cousin Jim or Jack or some other fiddler could play the violin better than Vieuxtemps. Such expressions the writer of this has heard from very intelligent-looking ladies and gentlemen. The fact , that the violin is heard in drinking-saloons and at the dance causes many to connect its sounds with that which is vulgar or trifling. They know not the deep pathos, the soulful tones of this precious instrument, and therefore will not tolerate it in the house. * * * When we honor the instrument by proper study—when we make a violin out of the fiddle, violinists out of fiddlers, then will all prejudices cease. In Europe, counts, dukes, ministers of state, bankers, yes, princesand kings, are known to play their first or second violin part in a quartette, as'the case may be. There is yet much work for you to do, violinist!”
Those who intend to learn the violin should determine to practice perseveringly and diligently for two or three years, following a good method, with plenty of scales and
I
THE SCHOLASTIC.
167
exercises, and abstain from tunes as long as possible, at least until they are able to play them correctly at sight.
Persons of only average talent should rather choose the piano, flute, clarionet, or cornet,—on which instruments the music produced is at least tolerable after a year’s diligent practice; but the violinist requires more than double the amount of work before he can bring a pleasing sound from his instrument. '
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, January 20, 1873.
ARRIVALS.
Miss Rose Rosesco, “ Belle Gaffney, “ Mary Kane, “ Lavinia Drazoo,
Cairo, Illinois.
Cairo, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Buchanan, Michigan,
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor (S’r. Dep’t), Jan. 20,1873.
Misses Katie Zell, Mary Cochrane, Alice Shea, Katie Haymond, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Minnie Lange, Aline Todd, Lizzie Niel, Ida Reynolds, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Rose Mary Spier, Mary Comer, Libbie Black, Mittie Ward, Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Ida Wilder, Julia Kearney, Bay Reynolds, Bridget Grace, Lizzie Daly, Kittie Finley, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church, Julia Fanning, Annie T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, Mary Riley, Jennie Noonan, Esther Boyce, Annie O’Connor, Nellie Heedy, Addie Hambleton, Mary Ann Roberts, Josephine Walsh, Rebecca Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, Katie Miller, Mary Quill, Katie Casey, Lou Beckman, Mary E. Roberts, Ella Quinlan, Belle White, Mary McGuire, Anna Belle Stockton, Rebecca Marr, Mary White, Joanna Valdez, Romualda Manzanares, Nora McMahon, Mary Lyons, Henrietta Miller, Lizzie Schiber, Cannie Rishling, Rose McKeaver, Fannie Snouffer, Nellie Hinkston.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Graduating Class—Katie Zell, Mary Cochrane, Alice Mast, Alice Shea, Katie Haymond, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Minnie Lange, Aline Todd.
First Senior Class—Misses Lizzie Niel, Mary Kearney, Nellie Gross, Ida Reynolds, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Rose Mary Spier, Daisie Green, Lillie West, Libbie Black, Nellie Langdon, Mittie Ward, Emily Haggarty.
Second Senior Class—Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Julia Kearney, Bay Reynolds, Mary Wicker, Lettie Ritchie, Bridget Grace, Lizzie Daly, Kittie Finley, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church.
Third Senior Class—Misses Nellie Ball, Jennie Walton, Julia Fanning, Annie T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, Mary Riley, Jennie Noonan, Agatha St. Clair, Esther Boyce, Nellie Foote, Annie O’Connor, Nellie Heedy.
First Preparatory Class — Misses Addie Hambleton, Mary A. Roberts, Josephine Walsh, Maggie Nash, Emma Wade, Bell Wade, Rebecca Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, Katie Miller, Mary Quill, Katie Casey, Lizzie Ritchie, Lou Beckman, Annie Ried, Mary E. Roberts, Addie Roberts, Ella Quinlan, Belle White, Mary McGuire, Agnes Cona-hau.
Second Preparatory Class—Clara Germain, Ettie Bur
ney, Anna Belle Stockton, Sarah Chenoweth, Dora Simonds, Katie Wickham, Mary White, Rose Klar.
Third Preparatory Class—Joanna Valdez, R. Manzanares, Henrietta Miller, Lizzie Schiber, Rose McKeaver, Fannie Snouffer, Nellie Hinkston.
Tablet of Honor (Jr. Dep’t), Jan. 16,1873.
E. Richardson, L. Tinsley, M. Faxon, F. Lloyd, A. Walsh, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, G. Kelly, K. Joyce, A. Lynch, N. Vigil, E. Orton, T. Schulte, L. Lilly, M. Brown, M. Walsh, K. Schmidt, J. and M. Thompson, B. Hessler, T. Cronin, M. Reynolds, K. Lloyd, M. Carlin, M. Ewing. M. Hildreth, C. Smith, M. DeLong, C. Walkerj A. Paulsen, K. Hector, L. Lappin, E. Lang, A. Ewing, E. Hessler, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, M. Ware, E. Jackson, S. Lynch, A. Green, J. Tailman, N. Lloyd.
Honorably Mentioned in the
Second Senior Class—E. Richardson.
First Preparatory Class—L. Tinsley, M. Faxon.
Second Preparatory Class—L. Harrison, L. McKinnon, F. Lloyd, A. Walsh, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch.
Third Preparatory Class—N. Vigil, E. Orton, T. Schulte, S. Lilly.
First Junior Class—M. Brown, K. Schmidt, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, M. Reynolds, A. Burney, K. Lloyd, M. Booth, M. Carlin, M. Ewing, C. Smith, C. Walker. -
Second Junior Class—A. Paulsen, K. Hector, E. Lappin, E. Lang, A. Ewing, E. Hessler, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, M. Ware, E. Jackson, S. Lynch.	/
Third Junior Class—J. Tallman, A. Green, N. Lloyd.
Whatever Midas touched turned into gold. In these days touch a man with gold and he’ll turn into anything.
©he “JUe
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by tho highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription, $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.	‘
For 2 years $5, in advance.	.
For 1 year, S3, in advance.
Single copies, 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Avb Mama for $25, in advance.
To clnbs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Avs Marla for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria for $50, in advance.
The postage of tho Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Nbtre Dame, Indiana.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE. THIRTY-TWO PAGES EVERY MONTH. $1.00 PER AJNjXTEM:.
Premiums for' Clubs. Send for a Specimen of
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar to the Editor,
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
.	Crusader Office, Boston, Mass,
1 68
THE SCHOLASTIC;
$20,000.
TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN PREmiums, for Distribution among the $2.00 Subscribers of the CINCINNATI
IN APRIL, 1873
The number of Premiums are always increased when the number of names exceed the number calculated upon.
We now offer the following:
1 Cash Premium of -	-	-
20 Cash Premiums of $100 Each, - -60 Stem-winding Watches, $80 Each, 100 Cash Premiums of $20 Each, -200 Cash Premiums of $10 Each, -100 Cash Premiums of $5 Each, - -
100 Cash Premiums of $3 Each, -loo Cash Premiums of $2 Each, - -
$1,000
2,000 4,800
2,ooo 2,ooo
Soo 3oo 2oo
1279 Miscellaneous Prem., $2 to $10 Each, 7,2oo Making a Total of TWO TIfOUSAVI) Premiums, Worth TWEUfTP THOUSAW DOLLARS.
Every subscriber who remits §2.00 for a year’s subscription will have his name registered, and will be furnished by return mail a receipt giving the date and number to which his name is registered, said, number being represented by a duplicate iu the distribution.
Agents sending 10 names and §20.00 at one time receive a free paper one year and have their names registered as participants for premiums.	-
Specimen Copies, Posters, Premium Pamphlet and Subscription Blanks sent free to persons desiring them. Address
FARAN & McFEAN,
n!8w6
Cincinnati, Ohio
Leave Niles,
GOING SOUTH.
6.50 a m.
9.35 a.m.
4.50 p.m.
Arrive South Bend, -	7 30 a.m
“	**	10.15 a.m
“	“	5.30 p.m
Leave South Bend,
Arrive South Bend,
GOING NORTH.
- 8.4o a.m.	I Arrive Niles,	-
11.45 a.m.	I “
6.30 p.m.	I “
SUNDAY TRAINS.
- 9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend,
5.30 p.m. |	“ '	“
9.20 a.m
12 25 p.m
7.10 p m
10.00 a.m
6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 18-11.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in I860, aud fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.	,
Situated near the Micliigau Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.	’
. TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, --------	$5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition /Latin and Greek); Washing and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	-
French, German, Italiau, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, -
Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	- . -	-	-
Use of Piano, ----------Use of Violin, ----------Drawing, ----------Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, - - -	-	- •
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical,. -Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra, Payments to be made invariably in advance.
150 00 10 00 12 50
10 00
2 00 15 00 ' 5 00 10 00
35 00
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on the 1st of February.
For further.particulars, address	“
Kev. A. LEBUONNIER, C.S.C.,
.	.	President.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
IJ1RAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST. '
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m. “	“	12.25 p.	m.
“	“	9-15 p.	m.
“	“	12.35 a.	m.
“	“	8.2'i p.	in.
“	“	4.35 p.	m.
leave South.Bend 4 53 p. m.
t
Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a. m
“	“	4.05 a. m
“	“	1.35 p. m
“	“	5.30 p. m
Runs to Elkhart.
GOING WEST.
2 55 a. m.
5.00 a. m.
[6.05 p. m.
6.37 a. m.
8.20 a. m.
Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p.
“	“	6.50 a.
“	“	8.20 a.
“	9.40 p.
m m m m
10.30 a..m
12.30 p. m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places. '	'
Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
J. H. DEVEREUX, General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio. .	-
CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.	.
J W. Caby, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.j
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchabd, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Goma North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a. m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.	’
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a. m.; 9.25 p. m.
Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a.m.	H. N. GAN IFF, Agent.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line .
C5T1 RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-Qj) ison Street Bridge, as follows:	.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line	.
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, 111., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington _ Express (Western Division) *
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning) Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE.
AIWIVB.
*9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
♦8:00 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 87:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday, t Dail y. § Except Monday.	.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	“
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, GenT Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
J. C. McMULLIN, Gen’i Superintendent, S CHICAGO.
PENNSYEVANIA C ENTRAE
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Tallman's Talace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New ' York loithout Change. ‘
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m “Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m*
2d train
3rd train
5.15 p. m
9.00 p. m
6 41 a. m*
11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and Sonth, and at Maunsficld with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
3. N. McCULLOUGH, GenT Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh, . H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYERS, Gen'l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh. -
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t GenT Pass. Agent, Chicago. .	.
♦ Second day.|	.	.	.	’
