! Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moritnrxis.
7/ -	===================================================================
Volume IX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA JANUARY 15, 1876.	Number 20.
The Meeting of the Waiters.
BY T. NEWER.
I.
There is not in this wide world a wreck so complete As the crash of the plates when two bright waiters meet.
|l	Oh ! the last drops of gravy and soup must depart
I	' Ere the shattered remains are consigned to the cart.
I	"	ii.
t	But ’tis not the collision that spreads o’er the scene,
The fragments of crystal and bits of tureen, ’Tis not the soft flop of the hashes that spill, Ah 1 no, it is something more exquisite still.
in.
’Tis that boys who love mischief are painfully near, Who drive the head-waiter half wild with a cheer, And who feel how the best jokes will always improve When reflected from eyes that absurdity love.
IV.
Sweet dining apartment, how calm would I rest At thy tables serene with the grub I love best, Since detentions no longer our pleasures decrease And our hearts, like thy waiters, are glutted with grease.
The Republic of Plato.
“ The Republic” is composed of two distinct parts which the genius of Plato has thrown like two metals into the same and which must be carefully separated if we wish to distinguish between what is false and what is true. One part—and in it is contained all the sublimity of the “ Republic”—fixes the eternal principles of the Beautiful and the Good; the other is destined to give action to these same principles in an imaginary society of the philosopher’s creation. In this latter part all that is defective, vicious or immoral in the writings of Plato appears, so that by a sort of fatal contradiction all the laws of nature and of justice are violated in the very work in which Plato purposes to establish them. This may perhaps appear surprising at first, though it can be very easily accounted for. Plato goes astray as often as he reproduces the ideas of Lycurgus: his errors come from others, his sublime discoveries are all his own or are due to Socrates. By the ancients he was accused of not being sufficiently practical, but we moderns should perhaps regret that he did not confine himself exclusively to the ideal; for by his ideas alone he has contributed to the enlightenment and civilization of the world, and it is only when he attempts to put them into execution that he can no longer be considered a safe guide.
To discover the best possible government; to establish a society free without any luxury, corruption, ambition or
injustice—a society in which the rank of each citizen should correspond with his intelligence, and in which virtue should naturally and inevitably reign supreme—such was the purely human problem that occupied the attention of ancient legislators and in which Plato discovered this other and divine question, viz., To find the true principles of justice. What a sudden ray of light in the darkness of anti- -quity ? It was the first time that a man embraced in the same thought the discovery of truth and the happiness of his fellow-beings. Unfortunately, however, he occasionally loses sight of this lofty idea; he follows it in theory and abandons it in practice, so that the moral principles which he inculcates might of themselves lead us to reject his political maxims. Plato had a double purpose:—he wished to destroy the privileges of birth, which too often place unlimited power in unworthy hands, and, besides, he desired to prevent the evil consequences which spring from ambition or from the blindness of paternal love—and these results he saw but one way to attain—viz.: the adoption of the system advocated by Fourier and St. Simon in the present century. Children shall no longer know their parents—mothers shall no longer know-their children; there shall be but one family in the Republic, and each member of this family shall occupy the rank which his virtue deserves. This last idea unquestionably is a generous one, but certainly not worthy of being realized by the sacrifice of the sacred ties of family and by the violation of all the laws of morality. These first laws, which serve as a groundwork, are followed by a host of others equally deplorable. For example: a free people should have leisure to attend to public affairs; consequence—the necessity of slavery. A free people should avoid the corrupting influence of surrounding nations; consequence—the necessity of isolation. The gates of the city shall be closed; the legislator virtually separates it from interconrse with the rest of the human race. Finally, this people must propagate itself in all its primitive vigor; hence the following laws borrowed from Lycurgus:
The education of women entirely similar to that of men. -Death of all sickly or deformed children.
Death of incorrigible children.
Death of all children bom without the sanction of the law.
Thus in Plato’s Republic slavery, cruelty'and libertinism are not only tolerated but prescribed.
We may here call attention to a phenomena well worthy of being pondered over by philosophers of the present day. The legislation of Plato, which was partly followed at Sparta, but which, considered as a whole, appeared to the ancients as the type of an impossible perfection, is impossible in our days simply because it is immoral—and its ideal- -' ism does not soar so high as the reality which we enjoy.
306
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Whatan immense route the human race must have travelled over! How does it happen that the objects of the ancient ■world’s admiration have become the objects of the modern ■world’s contempt? Simply because between the ancient and the modern world there is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. But enough has been said of the faults of Plato as a legislator; let us pass on to another point of view. We have seen in him the disciple of Lycurgus; let us now consider him as the disciple of Socrates. As such he soars ever upward to that revealed science which raises the soul from earth, and which has for its object invisible truth; as such he discovers the true laws of nature in the contemplation of the Beautiful and the Good; finally, as such he renders homage to the truth in tracing out the limits of justice and injustice, and in attributing to the former all the joys of the soul and to the latter the most frightful torments.
In Plato’s time it was generally believed that nothing was more useless than wisdom, and nothing more useful than injustice. When virtue appeared weak and indigent she was generally supposed to be the companion of unhappiness ; felicity, on the contrary, was thought to accompany vice when rich, powerful and triumphant; and the conclusion had been drawn that injustice is a more certain guide to happiness than virtue. Far from weakening the picture, Plato added to its intensity by erecting two types of justice and wickedness whom he endows respectively with the highest degrees of virtue and of crime. His just man is not only subject to misery but must also undergo infamy and torments. He is calumniated, scourged, accurst of men; laden with chains, he drags out his days in ignominy, and finally ends his life upon the cross. It is a wonderful presentment—a revelation almost of the life and sufferings of Christ. His wicked man is not only devoured by criminal ambition but is also a hypocrite—the hideous type whence will spring the Tartufes and Iagos of the future. And yet he is rich and, to all appearances happy; he is all-powerful over men, and takes advantage of everything because he is ready for every crime; he conciliates the good-will of men by a virtuous exterior and the protection of the gods by his sacrifices; in a word, he is a consummate villain whom fortune crowns and whom men honor. And still in full view of the tragic end of the just man and the prosperity of the wicked—in contradiction to the general voice of antiquity—Plato solemnly proclaims the just man happy because he is just; and the wicked un-happy because of his wickedness. What an admirable revelation of the lofty soul of Socrates? It is the first dawn, so to speak, of conscience in pagan antiquity. What a hideous picture does Plato not present of the life of the wicked ? He begins by proving the fact that the condition of a man enslaved by his passions is entirely similar to that of a city oppressed by a tyrant. Now, a city oppressed by a tyrant groans under the yoke of the most abject slavery. Poor, insatiable, cruel, basely humbled or furious, thirsting for vengeance or subdued by punishments, she obeys the executioner alone, and is tranquil only when bathed in blood. It is the constant agitation of the sea; the eternal flow and ebb of crime and terror. And where is it possible to find more affliction and misery, more groaning and suffering, without hope or consolation ?
In another passage he tells us that the tyrant’s soul is - the slave of every vice. Though surrounded by riches she is poor, because she is insatiable; though environed by crouching slaves, she trembles with fear, because she stands alone and isolated from the rest of mankind. She unceas
ingly experiences the convulsions nf a disorderly city, the frenzy of a maddened populace, the torments of a criminal who feels the hand of the executioner. Finally, as though to crown her misery, her crimes oblige her to become every day more envious, more perfidious, more ferocious and more impious. And such, nevertheless, is the external condition of the wicked.
These are a few of the moral lessons inculcated in the “ Republic ”; these are the doctrines which have prepared the civilization of the world. From them, as from ever-flowing sources of all that is beautiful and good, ancients and moderns have never ceased to draw. See how the eternal ideas of Plato spring to new life in the writings of a Basil and a Chrysostom. See how the burning soul of Augustine is inspired by them. Whoever knows Plato thoroughly finds him everywhere. In the writings of . Plutarch and Fenelon, as in the immortal masterpieces of Raphael and Michael Angelo. Sublime soul! Two thousand years have passed away and yet posterity has never wearied of admiring and honoring him. We admire in him the loftiest genius with which man was ever gifted. We honor him as the man who by the unaided strength of reason has done most for his fellow-men; as the only philosopher of antiquity whose light can merge into that of the Gospel; a benefactor of the human race by his noble ideas—a precursor of Jesus Christ by opening up the world of celestial contemplations. To him alone was granted a glimpse of that wisdom as yet ignored by men and which could be revealed by God alone.
Convalescent.
Mat, 1862.
Through the open hall door comes a balm to my pain, For the fresh winds of morning are fanning my brain, And hilarity borne from the groups on the porch
Tells the wounded and dying there’s joy in the world,— As there will be while life has a spark in his torch,
Though ten thousand an hour were to Tartarus hurled. And now I can see them: two sit on the step;
And one leans by a column; one plucks at the nep That is growing beneath; and two, I am sure, Are talking of home, their voice is so pure And so low that no soldier could ever mistake— Such tones the loved only and absent may wake. And some are more boisterous, telling of fight, And the way that we put the bold foemen to flight: How their eyes are now flashing, those gallant young boys! Hear fierce Indiana and grand Illinois, Minnesota and Iowa, Kansas afar, Ohio and Michigan, talking of war!
And dark-haired Missouri, now joined in the fray, With a twinkle in his eye as he sits on the plinth, Says, we nearly were granted and 'prenticed that day To the rebels who came in great power from Corinth.
Then a laugh goes around that relaxes each brow, And Wisconsin, Nebraska, Kentucky allow ’Tis the truth he has said, but better far now To rejoice in our glory and strive to win more, Till this war so unholy forever is o’er.
Thus the rough mellow lads while away the bright morn And their stories recounting their deeds are new born Thus they live the brave battle-all over again,— Or whisper of firesides, for still they are men.
And I am better too, at length; Kind Heaven each morning gives me strength,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	307
And now I long to tread the grass, To look upon the trees and skies, To jostle people as they pass,
And catch the friendship of their eyes. Dear God, how long within this ward I lie, where Death still stands on guard, Where still o’erhead and down the stair, The shuffling feet their burden bear,— Some farmer boy that bravely died With kindly strangers at his side.
And I ?-----Nay, then, I’ll not repine, But pain shall still my soul refine, Though long, so long this cot I keep, With bandaged wound and feverish sleep, With utter weakness unto death— The quivering eye, the feeble breath.
Yes, I am thankful: maimed and dead I’ve seen to rest on many a bed, While life and limb to me are spared,’ And faithful hands for me have cared. And now this lovely morn of May Comes laughing life from death’s decay: And breath of flowers, and limpid air, And song of birds my gladness share. The stretching miles before me lie, Where the rushing train full soon shall hie ; And I shall walk the well-known street, Where every sod my step shall greet;
And I shall lift the old, old latch, Where glistening eyes for me do watch; And I shall stand in the open door, Where welcome waits me, o’er and o’er. 8. P. L.

Giotto.
Cimabue, the Father of Modern Painters, having made the first exertions towards freeing Italian art from the fetters of Greek imperfection, had in his pupil, Giotto, a worthy successor.
Giotto di Bandone, or as he is styled, Ambrogiotto, was the son of a poor laborer who lived at Vespignano, near Florence. He was born in the year 1276, and at an early age was, on account of the poverty of his parents, placed with some shepherds to assist in tending their flocks. Whilst in this employment, he was discovered by Cimabue in the act of drawing on the ground the figure of a sheep grazing near him. Cimabue was so struck by the genius displayed in the work that he besought the father of the boy to allow him to take the son with him to Florence and there teach him the art of painting. His request was granted, and Giotto was taken to the house of the old painter for instruction.
Giotto was at that time fourteen years old, yet such was his genius that in a short time.he was able not only to imitate his master but also to paint from nature. Art had just begun, with Cimabue and Duccio di Siena as the leaders, to struggle against the trammels of constrained Byzantine style which pervaded all Italy; but it was Giotto who gave_ the great healthy impulse to it by rejecting altogether the existing models so slavishly followed. He was an innovator, and from the beginning of his career as an artist he deviated from the practice of his predecessors not only in the introduction of natural scenes and expressions and in the dramatic interest of his groups, but in the minor characteristics of form aud color. Up to his time the highest aim of the artist was the symbolic representation of a subjec according to conventional rules. Giotto endeavored, and
successfully, to make his works reflect his own impressions of nature, and thus give life to art. ,Tt was in this way that he succeeded within the short compass of his life to overthrow an existing style and to form and perfect another. Fuseli observes that “it is not easy to account for the rapidity of his progress, unless we ascribe it to the study of the antique, with which he might have become acquainted at Florence, and afterwards at Rome; and as we know that he was likewise a sculptor, and that models of his existed at the time of Lorenzo Ghiberti, this conjecture becomes highly probable, when we consider the character of his heads, the squareness of his forms, the broad and majestic folds of his draperies, with the grave and decorous attitudes of his figures.”
The fame of Giotto was not long in spreading throughout Italy, and many cities were adorned with his works, some of which still exist; yet from the remoteness of the epoch it is not surprising that most of them have perished. The social and political revolutions which have swept over Italy, the quality of the materials used, the effects of climate and vandalism of later times have either destroyed or hopelessly injured his choicest works; yet the specimens which remain, and the traditions of those that are lost, make it easy to account for the great influence which he exerted throughout Italy.
As to the life of Giotto we know but little. It is, however, certain that before the death of his master, Cimabue, his fame had become such that he was summoned to Rome by Pope Benedict IX. In that city he designed his famous mozaic of the NaciceUa, representing the disciples at sea in the tempest and Christ raising Peter from the waves. It is now in St. Peter’s,- but the frequent restorations have left little of the original work beside the composition. The next we know of him is that he was in Padua about the year 1306 where, in the Chapel of the Madonna dell’ Arena, he executed a series of paintings representing the life of the Blessed Virgin.
As Giotto was contemporary with Dante, it is to him that we are indebted for the portrait of that illustrious poet and also those of Brunetti and others who shone conspicuous in literature at the time. With them he lived on terms of intimacy and friendship.
The great work of Giotto now remaining, though in a ruined state, and which testifies most fully the just ground on which he earned the fame he receives, is at Assisi, in the Church of St. Francis, where, in thirty-two pictures, he represented the various events in the life of the Saint. This was his great work, and it made him a great reputation. Popes, kings, cities, monasteries and noble families were emulous for the possession of his paintings. He was honorably entertained by Robert of Naples, for whom he painted a number of works. He was taken to Avignon by Clement V, and in that city and others in France he painted many pictures in fresco for which he was paid large sums of money. He afterwards painted in most of the cities of Italy, but more particularly at Florence, where his works became the study of succeeding artists and earned the applause of Michael Angelo Buanarotti.
Giotto died in the year 1336, aged sixty years, having enjoyed a life of fame and esteem. He had been honored by admission to the citizenship of Florence as a reward for the honor his great talents conferred upon his country. He cultivated besides the art of painting those of sculpture and. architecture, and excelled in each. Of his skill in the latter the famous Campanile .of Florence is a remarkable in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
stance. His school of painting flourished, for upwards of a century after his death.
True Ecclesiastical Music.
Probably the only, certainly the best, specimen of genuine Church Music pure and undefiled, in New York, is to be heard in the Church of the Paulist Fathers, in West Fifty-ninth Street, near Ninth Avenue, and just opposite to the Roosevelt Hospital. This is the first Romanist church under the name founded in this city, and although only of recent growth, already boasts of an attendance of between two and three thousand persons, and has the foundation dug for a newchurch edifice. Wonderful, indeed, are the means used by this sect for the promotion of their ends; wonderful is the knowledge of human nature therein manifested, and most wonderful of all are the results attained.
Every year do we become more fully impressed with the’stupid, criminal, wasteful, and causeless folly of the administration of musical offices in most Protestant churches, especially “high-toned” ones. For instance: there was Christ Church, a few years ago, spending §18,000 a year for music which was at once a burlesque and a profanation. S. Bartholomew’s spends nearly §10,000 a year for music—but good music. S. Thomas’, which spends about §7,000 for music, badly selected, badly played and badly sung. There is Dr. Hall’s Presbyterian Church, with a building worth over a million of dollars, and a beggarly “ Precentor ” to lead a congregation, rich in pocket, it may be, but lamentably poor in voice. And the list might be increased.
The object sought in Protestant churches seems to be either to save money where it is not necessary to save it, or to satisfy the whims of fools. If they wanted to save money at Dr. Hall’s Church, why did they get an organ worth §15,000 ? If they wanted to save money at Christ Church, why did they pay §3,000 a year to one soprano singer? If they want to save money at S. Thomas’ Church, why do they retain that ridiculous and obtrusive harp abomination and mixed choir of unfledged singers, when for half the money they might have a boy-choir, the only kind suited to that building? The only answer to these questions is a repetition of our opening assertion that the musical affairs in most Protestant churches are stupidly managed, and why it should be so is a mystery to us. It is not so in the Jewish synagogues nor among the Roman Catholics, and yet he would be a brave man who should deny to Protestants an amount of intelligence equal to that found among “outsiders” in other things.
Now the Church of the Paulist Fathers sustains an an-tiphonal choir of seventy boys and men, who sit at either side of the chancel, and who perform the Gregorian Plain Song with modern harmonies, sung from printed books with the ancient staves of four lines of square notes. The clearness of the soprani (few of whom are over ten years of age), the sonorousness of the alti, and the even balance of tenori and bassi, as they exist in this magnificent body of choralists, are simply awe-inspiring. There is nothing to compare with it in the city, and there can be nothing superior to it in the country. The quaint old music here to be heard is a study in itself. It is supposed to have been originally Jewish music, and to have afterwards passed into the Greek Church, from which it was adapted by Gregory the Great to the Romish ritual. It comprises sep'
arate music for every Sunday of the Ecclesiastical year, and this fact compels the choir boys to be readers of music, and not mere ear babblers, as are most of the Episcopal choir boys of dur acquaintance.
This music is a forcible illustration of Richard Wagner’s rule whereby to test the true Ecclesiastical style, which he assures us must be “without time, rhythm and accent.” Most persons would say at once that they could not like it, but alas I this would only be to expose their own poor taste and lack of appreciation. Such persons resemble the honest Irishman who preferred his twopenny poteen to the best Burgundy to be had.	'
This choir, of course, sings a great portion of the service in unisons, and some of the antiphons are between a single voice and the double choir, but at many cadences the organ	I
stopped altogether and the choirs branched out in rich harmonies sometimes in five real parts, and finished the	I
phrase entirely alia Capella. Many of the responses were thus sung, and the effect was one to be long remembered. ' On a certain “ Amen” this effect was elaborated to an almost inconceivable degree, the alto, tenor and bass parts . moving about in delicious changes, while these darling little boy soprano sang an inverted pedal-point on G, a long, swelling, ringing, heart-piercing note which made us forget eveiything mundane in its delirious charms. Bless their fresh young hearts! There is such an infectious enthusiasm about musical boys that it runs away with all of our natural prejudice against them. They are quite different from your sleepy, venal, stuck-up, conceited, airish prime donne with their elaborate toilets, ribbons, feathers, fans, flowers, smirks and simpers. All of these but help to stop the ears by vulgarly attracting the eye, and robbing pure Music of her right alone to compel admiration.	«
Now, Reverend readers, and “infallible” and puissant	■
music committee gentlemen, who think you are doing wonders when you get a fourth-class quartet and blundering organist for four or five thousand dollars, and ye shrewd, high-minded individuals, with so keen an eye to the main chance, and so lively a sense of the dignity becoming to Fifth Avenue churches that you let your organists print pamphlets in bad grammer, inviting “volunteers” into your choirs and offering “ tea-biscuits and sandwiches” as an inducement, what do you think such a splendid choir as that of the Paulist Fathers (with organist) costs? It costs eighteen hundred dollars a year, including extras, and the music they make cannot be matched in any church in America, in intricacy, difficulty, light and shade, power, delicacy, beauty and propriety.
The pastor of the church is Father Young, who, of course, brings not only deep interest but profound knowledge to bear upon his music, and the organist and choir-master is	.
Mr. Edmund G. Hurley, to whom exceptional honor and	'
credit are due. We advise all Protestant clergyman and church music committees to visit this very remarkable church as a rare and'valuable lesson in church music.
Mass is at 11, and Vespers at 3^ o’clock.—Philharmonic Journal and Orpheonist, New York.
Werner Munzinger.
Reports from Cairo, Eygpt, give account of the assassination of the famous African explorer, Werner Munzinger. Munzinger was born in 1832, at Olten, in Switzerland. He was a son of the celebrated politician Land
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	'309
Amtman (Governor) Munzinger, and made his studies in Bern, Munich and Paris. In the year 1853 he got employment in a commercial establishment at Alexandria; and the following year, being appointed leader of a commercial expedition, he made a long excursion to the shores of the Red Sea and thence to the country of the Boyos, at that time quite unknown, and which he visited several times afterwards. He also took part in the extensive German Expedition under Theodor von Henglin, becoming its leader after a time.
At the end of the expedition he returned to Europe, but set out for Massana the year following, where since 1875 he acted as British Consul. At the time of the British campaign against King Theodor of Abyssinia he made himself very useful; he gained much merit by the services he rendered through his thorough knowledge of the country and its different languages, by his able management of the native princes, the purchase of provisions, and otherwise contributed very much to the success of the difficult campaign. Since 1833 he was French Consul in Massana, whence he undertook several journeys into the northern part of Abyssinia, on one of which he was, in 1869, seriously wounded by an assassin.
He visited the southern coast of Arabia in 1870,’and was in the course of the same year appointed Governor of Massana, with the title of Bey. In 1871 he continued his exploring expeditions in the countries situated north of that of the Boyos, gave an account of an unlooked for continuation of the mountain country towards the north and published a map and description of an extensive mountainous region hitherto unknown. In 1872 he was named by the Khedive of Egypt commauder-in-chief of the Egyptian army destined to invade Abyssinia, and was appointed Governor of the whole country, with the title of Pacha.	_____________
The Power of Music. '
How great is the power of Music! How often have we not heard of its calming the passions of angry men, and making them kind and gentle under its magic influence! Btv. not on in tn alone does it produce its effects, but. on irrational animals also, and even to a greater extent than on man. No doubt every one of any experience or le igth of life has seen some example of its influence. I myself saw a striking instance of it last summer. A band of music while pissing through the country commenced to play a very fine medley, and as the sweet sounds floated on the air you could see all the cattle in the adjacent fields stop feeding, raise their heads and listen, and at last come to the fences, and such as could, jumped them, while those who could not bellowed most pitifully, those that succeeded in getting over the fences followed the band until they had done playing, and then turned around and started for home. Another, that happened not long ago was when a man was about to be hanged for murder. While he was on the scaffold some very fine music was heard; as it continued, the doomed man became more and more interested in it, and upon being asked his last request, he replied: “Let me hear the rest of that music.” When music will take up a man’s thoughts in such an extremity as this we must surely conclude that its influence is very potent.	Sullie.
—Some people think Tweed is still in the city. We think he’s still, wherever he is.—Commercial Advetiser.
|	Associations.
Combine all the better and all the pleasant connections of life, whether those connections conduce to our happiness or to our sorrow they are still associations, and. without them life would be but a dreary blank—the world a chaos of darkness and misery. Without the association of men with men the human race would have remained in ignorance, and the life of man be that of the brute.	’
The most prominent associations of life and those most closely connected with the heart are those of childhood. The question—“Why is this the case!”—is frequently asked. The reason is simple. As far back in life as the memory of man can convey his thoughts, when reason first entered his soul, and it awoke to a sense of surrounding objects, all was novel to his innocent mind; whether or not the objects with which he came in contact were of an im-. portant nature his weak intellect could not decide. Hence each and every obj ect which was presented to his mind raised in it pleasing emotions and left on it an impression never to be obliterated, for it was their first and lively impression that enabled him ever afterwards to discern the same or to trace the resemblance of similar objects. -	.
The associations of childhood are rendered doubly pleasant to the emigrant or exile by reason of their enveloping those of his native land,—than which no associations are more dear, more affecting and more profound; they touch, a secret chord of the heart that no other connections or associations can ever find. The emigrant has left home, friends and relatives, all that served to make life sweet, to seek his bread in a foreign land, without a single kindly smile to lighten his labor or to cheer him on iu his path of loneliness; at night he seeks a couch beneath a stranger’s roof—in such moments how naturally does his mind revert to those happy days called childhood, when, free not alone from the care and turmoil of life, but also from sin and its consequences, he played, a light-hearted careless boy.	’	.
The exile severed from his country is carried on the current of thought, be his offence grievous or not, back to his childhood home, until he finds himself enjoying in thought what his country has denied him—life on his own native soil. The current of thought sweeps on till its source is reached and the associations of his earlier life stand prominently forth, when he enjoyed all the pleasant associations of his native land. Thus, no matter what straits he may be placed in, if left by himself his troubled mind seeks relief in thought, and when the mind seeks relief the current of thought is reversed and childhood is ever the climax.
The associations of youth form the character of man. If the associations of youth are corrupt, the mind, however pure, becomes contaminated, and must eventually succumb to its surroundings. If a man persevere in holding his hand in the fire it is certain to be burned. And as a man is not a man unless he has a character uncorrupt, if not unimpeachable, we may see that moral associations are indispensable to the formation of a true, noble, really Christian character.
The associations of youth differ, as the spheres differ on which youth moves. When youth develops into manhood, many of its associations are still retained. The connections formed subsequent to the age of manhood, though ormed for the pleasure and bene'fit of man, and of his own
'310
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
free will, are of a more trying nature than those of youth and childhood, adding those of youth to his cares and form
ing the crosses and trials of his life.
J. A. F.
Hebrew Music.
Notwithstanding the great labors of the early Fathers of the Church, and of many other learned men, there are few materials, even in the Scriptures themselves, for a very satisfactory account of the music of the Jewish nations whose restricted intercourse with other nations prevent, our receiving any illustration of it from contemporary writers. All that can be done is to cite a few passages from Holy Writ relative to the first ages of the world, from which it will be seen that, from a very early period, the art constantly ministered to the religious ceremonies of the Hebrews. Moses (Gen., iv., 21) tells us that Jubal, sixth in descent from Cain, was “ the father of all such as handle the harp and organ.” The organ here mentioned, according to the commentators, was the syrinx, or a species of Pan’s pipes. This must have been but a short period after the deluge. Six hundred years after this period Laban reproaches Jacob thus: “ Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly, and steal away from me ? and didst not tell me, that I might have sent thee away with mirth and with song, with tabret and with harp?” So that at this time vocal and instrumental music was not unusual. For two hundred and fifty years after this period nothing occurs relative to music, when we find Moses, after the passage of the Red Sea, singing with the Israelites on the occasion. Miriam, Aaron’s sister, “ took a timbrel in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances.” There seems ground for conjecturing that Miriam, by birth Egyptian, and educated in Egypt, might have learned the use of the timbrel and the dance in that country. The instruments mentioned during the administration of Moses appear to have been confined to the trumpet and tambourine. After the siege of Jericho, where the rams’ horns that were blown were rather military signals than instruments of music, we have no record of music till the appearance of the canticle of Barak and Deborah, which seems to have been sung in dialogue without instruments, excepting the timbrel and the trumpet before mentioned. From several passages music appears to have been united with prophecy. Samuel (b. 1, ch. x., v. 5) says to Saul, “Thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place, with a psaltery, and a timbrel, and a pipe, and a harp before them.” These prophets were doubtless poets or psalmodists, improvisator! of verses which they sung to the accompaniment of an instrument; and many of the fathers have supposed that the Jews had a college or school of prophets, which was also a school of music, for they almost universally accompanied themselves, or were accompanied by others, with musical instruments. David, who had cultivated music from his infancy, seems to have been destined by his family to the profession of a prophet; and Saint Ambrose says that he was chosen by God, above all the other prophets, to compose the Psalms. The power that the harp of David had upon Saul, when he was tormented with the evil spirit, is an example, among many others, of the influence of music on the maladies of the mind, and especially in cases of melancholy. Under the reign of David music was much esteemed. He appointed a great corps of musicians for the celebration of
the religious ceremonies, and his patronage necessarily extended its influence. David, on all occasions, seems to have been interested in the solemnities of his time: we find him continually dancing and playing before the Lord, with songs, harps, psalteries, timbrels, cymbals, comets, and trumpets. As in Egypt, the musicians were confined to one family, that of Levi, which was exclusively consecrated to the service of the Lord and the cultivation of music. When Solomon was made king, four thousand were the number “ which praised the Lord with instruments.” Dr. Burney calls the reign of Solomon the Augustan age of the Jews; and though Solomon, unlike his father, was not himself a performer, and ranked “ men-singers and women-singers, and the delights of the sons of (men, such as musical instruments,” among the vanities of the world, yet he continued the priests and Levites in his employ. In the reign of Jehoshaphat, the Levites were useful in the field of battle, and were, by their songs, the cause of the victory that was gained; and, indeed, this was not the only instance in which they were similarly serviceable. Some time before the destruction of the temple and the first Babylonish captivity, music and the sacred rites had met with interruption, both on account of war, and by their intercourse with foreign nations. The captivity was a mortal blow to the endeavors they had made to recover their music; and sixty-six years, the period of its duration, was sufficient to efface all from their remembrance. This oblivion is feelingly deplored in the 137th Psalm: “ How shall we sing the Lord’s song in a strange land ? ” Re-established, but soon afterwards captives a second time; again delivered, and then conquered by the Egyptians, Persians, and Romans successively, the unfortunate Jews had no leisure to cultivate the arts; and it appears probable that their music, which scarcely deserved the name till the reign of David, even at its best epoch, depended for effect more upon the number of performers than upon any refined knowledge of the art.
Among the modern Jews, instrumental as well as vocal music was excluded from the synagogue from the time of the destruction of Jerusalem. The singing they allow at the present day is a modern innovation; for, according to a passage of their prophets, the Jews consider it contrary to their law, or at least improper, to sing or rejoice until the coming of the Messiah. The German are the only Jews in the present day who have a regular musical establishment in their synagogues. They sing in parts, and have preserved traditional melodies, which are considered very ancient.—Brands's Encyclopaedia.
1
Art, Music and Literature,
—At Eton College the study of music has lately been made compulsory for all the boys in the fourth and higher classes.
—Prof Luigi Gregori has made a very fine and effective portrait in crayon of Mrs. Enoch Root, the wife of the well-known artist of that name.—Chicago Times.
—A work on “Celtic Scotland,” by Mr. Wm. F. Skene, author of the “ Four Ancient Books of Wales,” is in press in Edinburgh. The first volume will be devoted to history and ethnology; the second, to church and culture; the third, to the land and people.
—The committee for the erection of a monument to J. S. Bach at Eisenach published an appeal to musicians for further support. The sums at present received amount to 36,000 marks (£1,780)'; but at least 48,000 marks (£2,400) are required for the purpose contemplated.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	31k
—Miss' Cary’s successes at St. Petersburg have been chronicled. She made a contract to sing in Vienna for two months after the conclusion of her Russian engagement, from March 4 to May 4, and will not return to this country before June. She has made an engagement with Strakosch for next year.
—A frightfully real book in natural history is Mr. Henry Lee’s “The Octopus; or. The Devil Fish of Fiction and of Fact.” This soft and flabby fish is first cousin to the paper nautilus and second cousin to the cuttie fish and the squib. Mr. Lee defends the octopus against Victor Hugo’s cruel and damaging imputations.
—Mr. Charles Calverley is modelling the bust of Mr. Greeley intended for the monument in Greenwood Ceme-teiy. For Mr. Havemeyer’s family the same artist is making a bust of the late mayor. Like Mr. Greeley, he wears the ordinary costume, but in this case it is relieved by a sparf over the shoulder, draped in folds on the breast.
—The Portland Press learns that Miss Annie Louise Cary has completed her engagement to go to Vienna in the spring, after which she will remain in Europe for some time prosecuting dramatic studies. She will return to America late in the summer, and will probably sing in opera in this country next season under engagement to Max Strakosch.
—The centenary of Goethe will be celebrated by the theatre at Weimar in a series of representations of the principal dramatic works of the poet. The first representation will be “ Erwin and Claviso,” to be followed by “ Iphigenia,” “ Torquato Tasso,” “ Stella,” and “ Egmont,” terminating on March 22, 1876, the anniversary of the death of Goethe, when will be performed “ Faust,” newly arranged for the stage.
—The Museum of the Conservatoire of Music at Paris has just received an addition of much interest to musical antiquari ins. This is one of the now obsolete flutes known as “flutes a bee,” which were blown at the end instead of, as now, at the side. The specimen in question is fifty centimetres in length, and is made of a single piece of white marble. It is handsomely decorated, and is supposed to be of Italian origin.
—At the Hotel Durot, in Paris, the other day, was sold a valuable collection of violins and violin bows. A violin of Stradivarius was sold to Mr. Hart, an Englishman, for 7,900 francs. A violoncello of Stradivarius was bought by two Frenchmen for 7,090 francs. A magnificent violin of Bergonzi was secured by an Englishman, and most of the valuable instruments sold went to England. The fine bass viol of Montagnana, however, was bought by some Frenchmen.
—An autotype fac simile edition of Milton’s Commonplace book is to be published in London from the manu. script recently discovered. It contains notes in Milton’s handw^ting from upward of eighty works read by him. and these notes are in general his deductions and not mere extracts from the works read. There are other entries by four or five different hands, presumably made at Milton’s dictation. The MS. is quarto size and contains eighty written pages.
—The Corcoran Gallery of Art at Washington has just received Detaille’s famous picture of “Le Regiment qui passe,” exhibited in the Paris Exposition of 1875, and afterwards at Brussels, where it was bought for Mr. Corcoran. It is four feet square, and represents a regiment of the line passing along a boulevard of Paris'on a wet, snowy day in December. It is full of interest from the contrasted masses of soldiery, workmen, and schoolboys; and a grandeur is given to it by the forms of Portes St. Martin and St Denis, with other buildings that loom up through the muffled, snowy air.
—There is a general cry raised among the artists of New York that they can obtain no information from the Advisory Committee on Art, or any other responsible source as to what space is to be devoted to the American Department, or to each artist, in order that they may have some faint idea as to what to prepare for the Centennial Exposition. It is a singular fact that we hear of thousands of applications for space from foreign art exhibitors,
but none from our American artists that have been answered. . It is about time that some satisfactory information were tendered.
—At the last regular monthly meeting of the Chicago Academy of Design (on Thursday, the 6th inst.) Prof. Luigi Gregori, who had only a few weeks ago been made an associate member, was unanimously elected a life mem- -ber. The professor proposes to present the academy, when he returns to Italy this year, with casts of the most celebrated statues in Rome. The only condition which the generous donor attaches to his valuable gifts is that the beneficiaries should pay the cost of transportation. The proposition, it need scarcely be said, was accepted with thanks.—Chicago Times.
—The German painters are to be well represented in the Centennial exhibition, though many of them are complaining of the cost which will attend the transportation of their works. The North German Algemeine Zeiturig, however, reminds the artists that “ the entire cost of sending and bringing back a picture will be but little more than five per centum of its value, and surely this is but a small sum to pay for the privilege of exhibiting a painting in America, where the works of German artists are so highly prized that they bring from one-hundred to one-hundred and fifty per cent more than they do in Germany.”
—George P. Lathrop is writing a bibliographical essay on Hawthorne, his father-in-law, which will be published next year by Jas. R. Osgood & Co., so as to be uniform with the new edition of Hawthorne’s works in “Little Classics ” style. Since Hawthorne requested that no “ life ” of him should be written, the book will not take actual biographical form, but its aim, as described by a correspondent of The Academy, is “ to furnish a consistent picture of Hawthorne and his works, of a kind that has not yet been undertaken.” Many new facts in his life will be brought out, especially as regards his youth, of which little has been written.
—The Florence correspondent of The Poston Patty Advertiser gossips as follows about Mr. Joel T. Hart and Mr. John MacNamee: “Mr. Hart, our veteran sculptor, has finally cast his justly-celebrated statue, ‘Venus Conquering Love,’ which for many years has evoked the admiration of visitors to his studio. The casting has been entirely successful, and let us hope that this beautiful creation may be very soon put in marble. The same sculptor has finished a clay oust of Col. W. Smith, who lately married the daughter of Horace Greeley. It is a perfect likeness, and when completed in the marble will make a very attractive bust. Mr. MacNamee, one of our most earnest artists, is still occupied with his fine figure of a base-ball player, to which he gives the name of “The First Base.” The pose of the figure, the life and action impressed upon it by the skilful hands of the sculptor, make this one of the most interesting statues in Florence. When in the marble someone of the great base-ball associations could not do better than acquire it, as the artistic symbol of our great national game.”
—During his recent voyage from the United States, Sig. Gaetano Braga, the celebrated violoncellist, was lucky enough to meet among his fellow passengers on board the Amerique several first-rate amateurs, including the Count and Countess of Saint-Paul-Ryand, the lady being a distinguished pianist. Every day Sig. Braga look out one of his two violoncellos from its case, and his latest MS. from his portfolio. Then came a musical performance lasting several hours, to the great delight of the other passengers and the crew. Everything promised a prosperous voyage. But, one evening, there arose a tremendous storm, during which the screw was broken. The sails were insufficient to navigate the ship, and considerable anxiety reigned on board. At length, another steamer, the China, bound for Liverpool, was sighted. Sig. Braga was transferred to her by the aid of a cable stretched between the two vessels. To his great regret, he had to leave behind him violoncellos, music, and luggage. All he could, save werre his dollars and his umbrella. He is now in Pars, but, up to very lately, had heard nothing of violoncellos or luggage.—Musical ’World.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
THE SCHOLASTIC ALMANAC may now be procured at the Students’ Office, aud at Jansen, McClurg & Co.’s, 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago.
Wotre X>ame» January 15, 1870.
Public Spirit.
History teaches us that the selfishness of public men has been the cause of the downfall of many nations,—men who for the sake of self, sacrificed their country and honor.
We not unfrequently hear men say that they wish the form of government would change; they would prefer another to this, and some there are who would assist in the work. There is a class of persons who are continually seeking some office, and it matters little whether they are virtuous, learned or not, or whether they have the ability to fill the office for which they are seeking, but if they are on the strong side and have plenty of money they are sure to be elected; and when they do get the office, they look not to the benefit of the republic but to their own private interests. And this is the class of men that hold most of the public offices at the present day. That they may obtain these offices they do not hesitate to use every means in their power, even bribes, a thing which was considered so great an offence in olden times. Then again those who assist such men to attain their object, certainly cannot be much less guilty than those whom they assist. As I have already said, if a man belongs to the strong party and has money he is generally sure to be elected. It seems to be the great rule of parties to look to but one thing in voting, and that is whether he is a man of their party; it is certain that such men [as are ruled in this way do not understand or know their public duties, and I am convinced that this class contains three-fourths of the voting population of the United States. Certainly such men as the above cannot be called patriotic, and though most of them love their country, still they do not show it in the exercise of their public duties. . It is evident that the spirit which animates the men of the present time is not the same as that which animated the heroes of 1776.
What a lively contrast is presented to our minds when we compare these with persons who are not blinded by party spirit, with persons who do not seek office for their private interests but for the general good of the people; men who in neither soul nor body are absent from the welfare of their country, and such are the men whose names go down to posterity loaded with honors, men who during their whole mortal career have instilled into the hearts of the young, both by word and example, the love of public virtue—such are the men who are regarded as benefactors of the nation.
We are commended by the Most High to love our neighbor as ourselves, and how is it that we show the fulfilment of this Divine Law? We all have a natural love for one another, and when we think of doing anything it should be
with the intention of benefiting mankind; that is, whatever we undertake we should always have a general good in view. There are many ways in which we are able to ren^ der this good; we may do it by giving good advice, by erecting institutions of learning, and finally we may and ought to do it when our country is in need of the sacrifice of our property and even qur lives.
But let us cast an eye upon the past. It was by their patriotic zeal that our forefathers gained freedom from a foreign thrall, and our country arose and assumed a stateliness and firmness such as the world has never beheld. Centuries have rolled by since Greece and Rome sank into decay; ages have gone since the day when the Grecian republic first presented itself as a model, casting its rays over that proud people. Yes, Greece and Rome were repub-• lies, but only for a few, the greater portion of the people being slaves; but it was reserved for America to present to the world that glorious spectacle of liberty for all. Yes, it was destined by the Almighty that the New World should be the first to produce this best of governments. It is here, on a land extending from ocean to ocean, that the goddess of Liberty has erected a beacon that will serve to illuminate the whole orb'of the earth; nor is it planted on the sands of the sea shore, but upon a rock prepared by the blood of the patriarchs of 1776, a government which has witnessed not a single century, which though small and despised at first has grown to be the most respected of nations, and which has made the powers of Europe tremble to their very centre. And to what must we ascribe this, but to the great love of country which is found to burn in the breast of every true American.
Want Develops Strength.
Many persons are under the impression that it is impossible to become successful in life without wealth, influence and friends. That those are great aids cannot be doubted', but it is not impossible to get along without them. No matter how destitute a man may be, if he has the determination he must succeed, and it is this very want that will develop his strength.	•
Did everything happen just as we desired, there would be no need of exertion on our part; but, fortunately, society is so constituted that if man desires any position he must use his faculties to attain it. It is this very want thafcom-pelsus to exert ourselves;- and the greater the want, the harder we must work to supply it. Want is the parent of all inventions. The compass was not required until navigators were compelled to cross unknown seas. Railroads were not built until a new country was to be settled. Telegraphing was not thought of until the people desired a quicker method of communicating their thoughts. We may suppose that many things will be accomplished in the future that the present age does not dream of, because- we do not require them. Could we return to the world in a few hundred years from now, we should be astonished at the many new inventions, and doubtless our pride would be shocked to hear the people of our day called “old fogies.”
If we glance at the lives of men who have become eminent we will be surprised to learn how little they are indebted to wealth or influence for their positions. We need not pass out of our own country for examples of men whom want compelled to use all their efforts to attain an honorable position in society. General Andrew Jackson, who had no superior as an honest patriot and man, is an ex
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	313
ample of what patience and perseverance will accomplish in spite of all obstacles that may be cast in our path. Benjamin Franklin’s life proves of what little use wealth and friends are in ascending the ladder of fame. The biography of Patrick Henry, and of Elihu Burritt,'the learned blacksmith, will teach us that by earnest and well-directed efforts we can make up in a great measure for lost time, or at least that there is no excuse for giving up in despair.
We should-not look upon disappointments as evils; they are, in fact, spurs to urge us on to redoubled energy. We would be ignorant of our strength were we never compelled to battle against an adversary. How many heroes are there who would be unknown were it not that they were compelled to fight against obstacles, and all their glory consists in their victory.
Strange as it may appear, adversity is a positive blessing to many. It makes them look with charity upon the faults and follies of others; it removes the charity of many persons from the head to the heart. Having suffered ourselves, we can sympathize with others, and thus the bond of fellowship becomes stronger What compels us to labor for our support, but want? and this labor develops the body, promotes health, and at the same time prevents us from indulging to excess in pleasure.
All the human greatness to which the world has attained is due to the exertion of the mind or body in contending against obstacles that want has cast in our way. No matter if our path is strewn with thorns and the sky overhead is dark: if we persevere we will gain the main road, and when the clouds shall have rolled away we will enjoy the sunshine once more. Let us remember that no sorrow, no want or disappointment is so great that they could not be worse, that they are sent as trials; they are the furnaces that test our strength, and if received in the right spirit they will make us wiser, better and stronger members of society. If the difficulty of mastering a knotty problem in mathematics or abstruse argument in philosophy comes up to us, let us take heart and continue our studies, knowing as we do that the necessity of working will develop our strength so that we will be able to master not only these difficulties but other and greater ones that will arise hereafter. Our difficulties in the class-room are but a faint resemblance of those that we shall meet in after life, and if we encounter these present ones bravely, we will so increase our strength that when we come to walk the broad highway of the world we will be able to do so bravely and manfully.
Here at college, while we pursue our studies we should endeavor to imbibe the same spirit which animated our forefathers. It is while young that those principles should be acquired which make the good citizen, and we should endeavor to learn truly all that is necessary in order that we may not only acquire a name in the history of our country, but what is far better, make our influence felt as intelligent and useful citizens of the republic.
Personal.
—“ Nellie ” has gone to Fort Wayne.
—Rev. Fr. Jacob Lauth has gone to Austin, Texas. .
—Alexander Chapoton, of ’54, resides in Detroit, Mich.
—Mr. Klaner, of Chicago, was here the first of the week.
—M. H. Smith, of ’72, is hale and hearty in St. Paul, Minn.
—Eugene Clifford, of ’65, is in the^law business in Elginj Illinois.
—Mr. John O’Meara, of Cincinnati, spent Tuesday at the College.	.	•
—W. B. Smith, of ’67, is in the real estate business in Chicago, Ills. .
—James Nowland, of ’66, is in the commission business in Elgin, Ills.	.
—Thomas Oldshue, of ’67, is practising medicine in Pittsburgh, Pa.
—James Mahon, of’66, is one of the Globe Founders, London, Canada.
—Hon. W. C. McMichael is connected editorially with the South Bend Herald. .
—Daniel Vaughan, of ’63, is doing an excellent business in New Orleans, La.
—George Darr, of’71, is now engaged in the coal busi-' ness at Cincinnati, Ohio.
—John Mahon, of ’66, is principal of the Tile Manufacturing Company, London, Canada.
—Charles Wheeler, of ’73, enjoys a large and lucrative law practice in Mechanicsville, Iowa.
—Mr. Jesse Johnson, of Detroit, Mich., was at Notre Dame on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week.
—W. J- Ryan, of ’75, is with his father in business at Calumet, Mich., and is prospering as he deserves.
—Rev. Fr. Hannon, of Toledo, was at Notre Dame on Tuesday last. He is always a welcome visitor here.
—Elias Thomas, of ’73, was studying law in Valparaiso, Ind. We have not learned whether he is now practising or not. .
—J. D. Murphy, of ’68, resides in Philadelphia. We hear that he is connected withone of the daily papers published there.
—W. J. Winterbotham, of ’69, is doing a large and very lucrative business in Chicago, Ill. His address is number 208 La Salle Street.	-
—W. W. Dodge, of ’74, took the character of Shylock in the “Merchant of Venice,” at an entertainment given in Iowa City, Dec.. 17th, 1875
—W. C. Stillwagen, of ’71, was married last September to Miss Oldshue, a sister of the Messrs. Oldshue of’65, and has a large law practice in Pittsburgh, Pa.
—George Halbom, of ’63, is doing well in Philadelphia Pa., where he will welcome all the “old boys” who may attend the Centennial Exposition next summer.
—We were pleased to see Mr. C. Hess, of ’75, in Wheeling, W. Va., last week. He is prospering in business, with his father, who by the way is a most genial gentleman.
Local Items.
—Skating soon I
—Have you an Almanac ?
—The crisis is now about over.
—Rec. now is taken in the halls.
—The lost umbrella has been found.
• —The Societies are all in good working order.
—Now come on with your weather prophecies.
—There will be a Musical Soiree to-morrow night. .
—The Juniors’ bell had a cold Thursday morning. _
—Everything is quiet at the Manual Labor School. -
'—The Anti-Shaving Mob was lively last Wednesday.
—How many will be “plucked” at the Examinations?
—It will soon be in order for the Scientifics to reorganize.
—There was a great change in the weather last Monday.
—There was but one boy in the Infirmary this last week.
—Another table will be started in the Junior hall next week.
—The Philharmonic Club will be along some time in March.
814	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Semi-Annual Examination will begin on the 25th of January.
____The carpenters are putting up storm-doors at the two study-halls.
____Be virtuous, and subscribe for the Scholastic, and you will be happy.
—Conference was held in the Presbytery building on Wednesday last.
—There are now over tbirty'pupils in the Manual Labor School at Notre Dame.
—All the classes are now in good working order, and everything looks lively.
—Everybody looks refreshed after the holidays. They must have enjoyed them.
—Why should class-room No. 4. recall the prophet Daniel to the mind of the visitor ?
—Several new-comers arrived during the past week; to all of them we give a hearty welcome.
—Blum, the great cigar man of South Bend, “ set ’em up” for the boys during Christmas week.
—The “Little Fiddler” has been sent to Fort Wayne, there to enter the service of Rev. F. Demers.
—If on a dark night you see a man smoking a cigar you are not to conclude that he is carrying a dark lantern.
—The Literary Entertainment of the St. Aloysius Phil-odemic Society will be given about the first of Feburary.
—Everybody is preparing for the Semi-Annual Examination, which, we learn, is to be much more severe than usual.
—Now that winter is on hand, spiked boots will be very handy. They prevent one from taking a seat too suddenly.
—There have been many visitors here lately, all of whom were well attended to by the worthy Janitor, assisted by Michael.
—It is very strange that we have as yet no local college song. Who will write one, and who compose the music? We should have one.
—Our friend John, seeing a man carrying a lantern down Michigan street took a good look, and then declared it to be a “splen’ ’splay.”
—The Thespians are beginning to stir up concerning the Exhibition on the 22d. Their Entertainment should be worthy the Centennial year.
—The Juniors should start more tables in their hall. One is not enough. Everybody can’t play at one table at the same time. More tables then.
—The Seniors took a walk to Chearhart’s on Wednesday last. The weather was none the best for the pedestrians, but they managed to get through.
—The Minims got hold of the carpenters’ sled, and then— maybe they hadn’t some fun with it! They had thought. The way that sled did duty was a caution.
—We expect to hear some good music at the soiree tomorrow evening. The Amphion, the Orchestra, etc., will all be on band and will do their very best.
—The Telegraph Class is improving very rapidly this year. Mr. Roddimm undoubtedly deserves credit for the able manner in which everything is carried out.
—If you would pa<s a good Examination you must study hard and thus make up f >r lost time. Those who study hardest will com: off with most edit. Study then.
—Tutor to Pupil.—“In what part of the United States is Egypt situated ?”
Smart Bov.—“At Cairo, on the Mississippi River.”
—The bath-rooms are now in good working order. Each department will take a week about and everybody will have a chance to bathe at least once every two weeks.
—Which is followed by the most damaging results,— the twisting of a mule’s tail or the catching of a baseball in your laps? This is the question that will worry some of our young debaters shortly.
—The removal of the partition in the Studio is quite an improvement. Everything goes on finely in the Drawing
Classes. Some of the pupils had excellent pictures to show their friends during the Christmas holidays.
—Other large additions of books will soon be made to the Lemonnier Circulating Library. There is nothing about Notre Dame so worthy of encouragement as this library, and, by the students generally, nothing is more appreciated.
—Now that rehearsals will commence in the course of a few weeks, it may not be out of place to remind everybody of the fact that unless they have something to do with the Entertainment to be given they are requested to remain away from rehearsals.
—The Caroline-Richings-Bernard comic opera company will give one representation of the “Brewer of Preston ” in South Bend, on Tuesday evening, February 8th. This will be a splendid opportunity for our musicians to hear some first-class music.
—It takes 73,600 ems, or 220,800 separate pieces of metal to compose one number of the Scholastic. The type, set singly and lengthwise, would reach 16,984 feet, a fraction over three miles. In one year there are 389,491;200,000 duplications of letters on paper.
—If you would like to see a venerable time-piece go to the farm-house, just south of the lower lake. You can there see a clock which has reached the venerable age of tico hundred and fifty one years. It is not as fancy a clock as many now manufactured, but it has done good service.
—R. J. Gordon, Secretary of the Boston Philharmonic Club, was in South Bend Wednesday last arranging for a concert there March Sth. Mr. Gordon also made arrangements for a concert at St. Mary’s and one at Notre Dame about the same date. The Club are playing this week at Boston with Von Billow.
—We have made arrangements by which we are enabled to present to every one sending us before the first of March a year’s subscription to the Scholastic, a copy of the Scholastic Almanac. Have your friends, then, send us one dollar and fifty cents and we in return will give them one year’s subscription to the Scholastic and a copy of the Almanac. This arrangement lasts until the 1st of March. Let everybody then hasten to profit by it
—The 18th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma- • thean Association took place Jan. 8th, 1876. At this meeting the debate, “ Are Works of Fiction Beneficial to the Mind ? ” took place. The affirmative speakers were Messrs. Tamble and French. . The negative was defended by Messrs. H. Faxon, E. F. Arnold and J. T. Foley. The debate being over, the President gave his decision in favor of the negative side. The subject for the next debate is “ Which Develops the Mind More, Classical or Commercial Studies?” Messrs. E. F. Arnold, P. M. Tamble and D. Ryan delivered declamations, and Mr. Tamble read a composition on the “ State of Indiana.” The meeting then adjourned.
—The 10th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club was held January 8th, 1876. Essays were read by Messrs. Maas, “ Pipes,” Cooney, “ Galileo,” Hertzog, “Southwell,” Fogarty, “The Newspaper.” A declamation was delivered by Mr. O’Brien. Thanks were tendered, to Rev. Fr. O'Connell, Prof. Lyons and B. Norbert for favors received from them. An extemporaneous debate took place, the subject being: “Resolved that it is better for the Students to stop at Notre D ime during Christmas vacation than at South Bend.” It was decided in favor of the affirmative. The speakers were, affirmative, Messrs. Cooney, Hertzog. Maas, O’Brien and Fogarty; negative, Messrs. Logan, Obert, McNulty and Baca.
—The Spectator, from the College of St. Laurent, Montreal, Canada, again makes its appearance and in an enlarged and improved form. The Spectator, we believe, was not a whit behind many of our college papers in former days, but the rest has evidently given it new vigor. We are glad to see that more local news is given than formerly; if we could venture a suggestion it would be that the Editors have their printer give a little more attention to the arrangement of editorals and locals. One or two of the former seem to have strayed out among the miscellaneous articles, and the local items are not arranged according to length, as is now the universal custom. The paper is wel
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.'	315^
edited and well printed. It is needless to say that we consider it a welcome visitor and wish it success.
—There was a lively time on the Campus last Thursday. R. Morris and F. Rosa chose sides and kicked foot-ball for a barrel of apples. Rosa’s side won ah easy victory, after a struggle of an hour. It seems that Frank is acquainted with the boys thatthandle their feet best, and for thatjreason he is always victorious. Every thing went on quietly until the ball was about to enter the goal for the third and last time, when our friend John became furious and made a terrible kick at the ball, missed his mark, and struck a fellow on the shins, barking them not a little. After hopping around for a few minutes he made a charge on John, and had not certain parties interfered it might have been worse. He however forgave John after the game was overhand requested the Prefect to let the “ picket ” “ slide.’
—The following is the programme of the Musical Soiree to be given January 16th, at 7 o’clock:
Introductory Overture—“ Belisario ”......Orchestra
Quartette—“ Homeward Bound”.............Arion Club
Piano.....................................  C.	Otto
“ What are the Wild Waves Saying ? ”
...............Lindberg, Campau, Burger and McGrath Piano..........W. Breen
Duett—Violin and Piano..............Burger and Otto
Quartette—“The Roses ”..............Amphion Club
Blue Danube..............................Orchestra
Piano.. ....................................0-	Otto
Duett—Violin and Piano........'.Kauffman and Breen
Duo—“Larboard Watch”..........Robertson and Riop ele
Duett—Violin and Piano..............Byrne and Otlto
Quartette—“ Wanderer’s Night Song . .Amphion Club Quartette—“ Home, Sweet Home! ”.........Arion Club
Crown Diamonds..........................Orchestra
—The editors of the Philomathean Standard sat down to a really magnificent lunch on last Thursday evening. Turkey and all the good things of the season were in abundance, and that they were well enjoyed, the empty dishes Which they left on retiring bore ample evidence. Among the invited guests were Rev. President Golovin, Father Kelly, Profs. Howard, Edwards, the Editor of the Scholastic, and others. Rev. President Colovin made a few highly complimentary remarks to the young gentlemen, which were received with great satisfaction. The banquet over, rec. was indulged in until half-past six, all enjoying themselves hugely, as the St. Cecilia Philomatheans always do. Prof. Lyons has every reason to feel proud of the fine array of talent he has engaged on the pages of the Standard. This paper never goes beyond manuscript, it being read before the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association. Glancing over the pages of the last number, we were highly " pleased to see how well the young gentlemen take their parts as Editors. The Standard is very spicy, abounding in many local hits which make its reading very entertaining. The articles which grace its pages are written with care and ability. The number of pages in the last number are sixty-two. We wish the young Editors every success, and hope that if, when leaving college, any of them may devote themselves to journalism, they may be as successful as they now are.
,	—As most of our readers and friends are interested in
the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad, it is not out of place in us to give the material points of the last annual report:
STOCKS AND DEBTS.
Capital stock as by charter subscribed and paid in $50,000,000.00 Funded debt, as by last report................... 34,420,000 00
Total amount now of funded debt................ 36.500,000.00
Floating debt, as by last report................ 1,302,988.61
The amount now of floating debt..................None.
Average rate per annum of interest on funded debt 7 percent.
THE year’s BUSINESS.
Number of miles run by passenger trains.	2,661,610
Number of miles run by freight trains...............5,895,188
Number of passengers, all classes, carried in cars....3.086,316 Number of tons, 2,000 pounds, of freight carried in cars 4,944,807 Average rate of speed adopted by ordinary passenger
trains—miles per hour................................... 25
The following is the amount of freight by items, specifying the quantity in tons:	.
Of the products of the forest......................   533,558
Of animals.........................................  417,795
Of vegetable food..................................J,151,005
Other agricultural products........................  121,528
Manufactures........................................ 316,603
Merchandise........................................  277,579
Coal..............................................  .648,574
Other articles.....................................1,488,162
Total...............................................4,944,807
Cents. Rate per ton per mile on all freight........................1.044
Rate per ton per mile on all freight last year...............1.215
The rate of fare for passengers charged .for the respective classes per mile, was as follows:	*
Foreign. Local.
.	Cents.	Cents.
For first-class through passengers.................219	2.60
For first-class way passengers.....................2.41	2.75
For second-class through passengers................1.90	2.04
For second-class way passengers....................2.08	2.18
For emigrant through passengers....................0.98	....
For emigrant way passengers........................1.00	....
EXPENSES.
Repairs of road-bed and railway, excepting cost of iron...............................................$1,467,925.60
Cost of iron and steel rails used in repairs....... 1,055,564.24
Repairs of buildings................................. 292,337.64
Repairs of fences and gates........................... 59,934.18
Taxes on real estate................................. 502,661.45
Total expenses of maintaining road...............$3,378,422.51
Repairs of engines and tenders......................... 656,641.22
Repairs of cars........................................ 906,812.21
Total for repairs.............................$1,563,453.43
Office, train, and station supplies............... 187,724.06
Labor, porters, watchmen, switch-tenders,wood and water station attendance......................... 1,785,835.87
Conductors, baggage and brakemen................... 599,226.15
Enginemen and firemen.............................. 715,532.38
Fuel—cost and labor of preparing for use............. 1,174,379.57
Oil and waste...................................... 198,164.04
General superintendence, agencies,	etc.......... 1,175,875.36
Total for operating the road....................$5,846,040.43
EARNINGS.
From passengers..................................  .$3,999,629.71
From freight........................................ 9,864,907.44
From other sources.................................... 877,143.16
Total.......................................  $14,741,680.28
The above to be stated without reference to the amount actually collected.	*
receipts.	■
From passengers................................. $3,999,629.71
From freight..................................... 9,864,907.44
From other sources—specifying what, in detail, as follows, viz:
Express..............................$299 879,79
Mails................................ 445,453.72
Rents................................ 48,435.62
All other sources.................... 83,373.90—	877,14313
Total......................................$14,741,680.28
^PAYMENTS OTHER THAN EOR CONSTRUCTION.
For transportation expenses....................$10,778,516.37
For interest.................................... 2,542,042.66
For dividends on stock—amount and rate per cent. —guaranteed 10 per cent............................ 53,350.00
Ordinary, 3)£ per cent*......................... 1,607,661.25
♦This dividend (No. 10. $1,607,661.25) was paid Feb. 1,1875, iron the earnings of 1874. Only the last quarter of 1874 is included in this report.
Semi-Annual Examination.	'
Tuesday, January 25, 1876.
BOARDS OF EXAMINATION.
CLASSICAL.	'
Rev. P. J. Golovin Presiding. Rev. J. Frere, Mr. T. Walsh, Secretary; Mr. J. Stoffel, Mr. P. J. Franciscns, Mr. V. Chyzewski, Prof. J. A. Lyons.	.
—Will examine classes numbered 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 43, 44, 45.	•	•
*1
316
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
SCIENTIFIC.
Rev. J. A. Zahm Presiding. Mr. J. Kirsch, Prof A. J. Stace, Secretary; Prof. T. E. Howard, Prof. W. J. Ivers. —Will examine classes numbered 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 70.
COMMERCIAL.
Rev. P. J. Golovin Presiding. Profs. Tong, Lyons, Ivers, Sehnurrer. Bro. Philip Neri, Secretary.
—Will examine classes numbered 4, 7,11,14,16,19,22, 24, 25.
PREPARATORY.
Rev. C. Kelly Presiding. Mr. T. Collins, Mr. D. Hagerty, Mr. J. Rogers, Mr. M. Lauth, Bro. Francis de Sales, Bro. Alexander. Prof. J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
—Will examine classes numbered 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9,10,12, 13,15,17,18, 20, 21, 23, 87, 88, 89, 90.
MODERN LANGUAGES.
Rev. P. J. Franciscus Presiding. Mr. J. Kollop, Mr. M. P. Falize, Mr. P. Johannes, Mr. A. J. Koppes, Bro. Philip Neri, Secretary; Prof. Sehnurrer.
—Will examine classes numbered 71,72, 73,74,75,76.
RoH of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Brown, V.Baca, W. Breen, D Byrnes, W. Ball, L. Busch, M. Blackburn, P. Cooney, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, M. Cross, P. Corbett, H. Dehner, J. Dwyer, J. Dempsey, E. Dempsey, J. Ewing, - L. Evers, C. Ely, B. Euans, E. Graves, J. Gillen, A. Hertzog, J. Harkin, J. Handley, S. Kennedy, H. Kinson, P. Kennedy, J. Kreutzer, W. Keily, J. Kelly, E. Monohan, P. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, H. Maguire, P. McCawly, C. McCloskey, T. McGrath,- W. McGorrisk, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, P. Neil, J. Neidhardt, H. O’Brien, J. M. O’Rourke, E. Peffermah, J. T. Peifer, T. Quinn, F. Rettig, C. Saylor, J. Smith, F. Vandervannet, R. White, T. Wendell, J. Coleman.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. J. Byrnes, A. J. Burger, W. J. Connolly, E. Collins, F. C. Ewins, J- Cavanaugh, J Foley, J. French, P. Frane, C. Gustine, E. Gleeson, P. Hanan, W. Hake, F. Hoffman, A. Holmes, S. B. Goldsberry, E. Hall, A. Hamilton. J. P. Kinney, J. Knight, O. Ludwig, M. McAuliffe. D. Nelson, C Orsinger, X A. O’Meara, G. Sugg, P. M. Tamble, H. F. Henkel, A. Pilliod.
minim department.
C. Faxon, A. J. Bushey, F. Pleins, .J. Davis, J. Haney, M. Gustine, O. Stanton, W. McDevitt, H. McDonald, C. Long, E. Oatman, T. F. McGrath, G. Lowrey, R. Pleins, P. Heron, G. Rhodius, G. Lambin, J. Seeger, W. Coolbaugh, A. Cainpau, C. Bushey.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JAN. 13, 1876.
'	COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Senior Class—T. Gallagher, F. Devoto, E. S. Monohan, J.
J. Gillen, B. L. Euans, H. Dehner, E. Graves.
Junior Class—J. H. Cooney, P. J. Cooney, N. Mooney, H.
C. Cassidy, J. A. Brown.
Sophomore Clvss-J. F, Ewing, W. Breen, W. T. Ball, R. J. Maas, C. Otto, J. P. McHugh, J. Coleman.
Freshman Class—A. Hertzog, G. McNulty, A. O’Brien, R. McGrath, J. M. Rorke, V. Baca.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Lowrey, L. J. Frazee, C- Faxon, C. C. Campau, P. Nelson, A. Bushey, T. F. McGrath, F. Campau, J. Nelson, J. A. Duffield, F. Pleins, R. Pleins, G. Rhodius.
—State papers mention the suspension of the Afton Eagle-That must be a soar subject for the editor.—Commercial Advertiser.
—They’re to have an Educational display at the Centennial, to be sure. But isn’t it bad to have it in the neighborhood of the School-kill?—New York Commercial Advertiser.
—Fine sleighing and sledding just now.
—A very sudden transition from May to January took place last Sunday.
—The ranks are again full, and everyone is earnestly preparing for Examination.
—Moonlight rambles are now taken with more comfort near the steam-pipes than on the river bank.
—The examination in Music commenced on the 10th, and will continue every day for ten days, and then close by_a musical soiree.
—The parlor recreations, French recreations, and evening musical entertainments give a pleasing variety to the routine of school life, and cause a homelike cheerfulness to pervade this little world of ours at St. Mary’s.
—Letters from Paris announce the joyful news that Very Rev. Father General had arrived safe and well, and. had the happiness to celebrate the Christmas Masses in Paris. Miss Starr has also sent a communication which is highly interesting to her friends at.St Mary’s.
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Reily, A. O’Connor, J. Nun-ning, M. Faxon, F. Dilger, M. Brady, L. Kelley, E. Mann, M., Cravens, P. Gaynor, M. Murrav, H. Russel. S. Moran, M. Gaynor, I. Maas, 8. and I. Edes, E. Cannon, E. Edes, A. Miller, ,8. Swalley, J. Darcy, M. Usselmann, L. Leppig, R. Filbeck, L. Weber.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. Mann,B. Wilson, A. Cullen, N. McGrath, A. McGrath, A Harris, M. Derby, M. Ewing, L. Chilton, A. Morris, M. Mulligan, L. Merritt, D. Gordon, I. Mann and M. Davis.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Mulligan, A. Ewing, E. Simpson, J. Duffield. M» McFadden, M. Fehen, A. Morris, L. and A. Sehnurrer.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
3rd Class—Miss A. Cullen.
4 th Class—Misses P. Gaynor, 8. Morran, J. Mitchell and K. Morris.
5ru Class—Miss A. Harris.
OIL PAINTING.
3rd Class—Miss L. Ritchie.
Miss K. Morris has been promoted from the 5th to the 4th . Drawing Class.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses H. Foote and R. Devolo.
3d Class —Miss M. Riley. 2d Div.—Misses L. Arnold, jM. Gaynor, A. Byrnes and I. Maas.
3d Class—Mi»es 8. Eles, E. Cannon, I. and E. Edes. 2d Div.—Misses J. Morris and H. O’Meara.
i i I
i
i
)
i
—Some of the Icelandic clergy having toasted Lord DuL ' lerin, and as his auditors knew no more of English than be did of Norse, he addressed them in Latin, which is not after the style of either Cicero or Tacitus, but which has the merit of being easily translated: “ Viri illustres, insolit tus ut sum ad publicum loquendum, ego propero respon-dere ad complimenturn quod recte reverend us prelaticus mihi fecit, in proponendo meam salutem; et supplico vos credere quod multum gratificatus et flattificatus sum honor tarn distincto. Bibere, viri illustres, res est quae in omnibus terris, ‘ domum venit ad hominum negotia et pectora’; re quirit ‘haustum longum, haustum fortem, et haustum cmnes simul’; ut canit Poeta, ‘unum tactum Nature totum orbem facit consSnguineum,’ et hominis Natura est— bibere.”	g
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	317
M. Livingston & Co.,
.	-A.IRZE TZEZIE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Bend
They Have the Uest Cutter in tlie City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Cloths, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is the largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
REMEMBER THE PLACE.
91 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
McDonald,
THE PHOTOGRAPHER,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
How to Learn Phrenology.
- “ The Amebic in Institute of Phrenology,” 737 Broadway, N. Y., (Incorporated by the Legislature of the State.) will, during Summer vacation, 1371, instruct a cla-'s to acc mitnoda'e Teachers,"Students, Ministers and others. Circulars, giving full explanation,sent by mail, on apphcatioB as above.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting ot three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and firilshe!, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, e' c., will be sold at reasonable figures of a good buyer. For farther information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOGBAFHEFJ
Comer Michigan and Washington Sts. J
south: zbzeettu itt^ta-TT-a.
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholas tic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
’ CL PT. SHEERER,
Hats, Caps and Furs,
.*	TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’‘Furnishing Goods, Etc., ' IIO Micliisau Street, .	sotttzh: zbzeicttd ittid
For Holidays! For All Days!
’ No Gifts Better Appreciated.
Just Out.—jNcw'. Fresli and Handsome!
GEMS OF ENGLISH SONG
A perfect collection of songs, with piano accompaniment, comprising over 75 of the choicest Songs, Ballads, Duets, Quar-ets known, selected with great care, and with especial regard to quality and popularity; 232 pages, full music size.
The N. Y. Evening Mail says: “ A most extraordinary collection of really fine songs.”* One could hardly imagine so many veritable gems could be contained in a sing’e volume.”	.
Price, §2.50 plain; §3. WJ in muslin; 54.00 full gilt. '
Of the same form and price, full music size, are
Gems of Strauss. A new «
comprising over 100 best Strauss Waltzes, etc., etc.
Organ at Home
Musical Treasure.
Gems of German Song.
Pianoforte Gems.
Gems of Scottish Song.
Moore’s Irish Melodies.
DITSON & CO’S MU IC BOOKS
For Catholic Churches.
Books containing Morning and Evening Service.
THE OFFERTORIUM.....................Fiske. 2.50
The newest work. Plenty of easy as well as more difficult music.
THE CANTATA. No, 1 Morning Service. .Werner. 2.25
THE CANTATA. No. 2. Evening Service.. “	2.25
THE MEMORARE.......................... 2.75
THE CATHOLIC CHOIR BOOK. .........Garbert. 2.50
LYRA CATHOLICA...........Wilcox & Southard. 2.50
STABAT MATER......................Rossini. 45
MJkSSESl 1
By Beethoven, in C.... 65 Haydn, 1st, 2d & 4th ea. 80 Haydn, 6th..........1.00
Haydn, 7th & 8th, each. 65 Haydn, 3d...........1.00
Rossini Messe Sol’nelle 1.60 Bordese, in F.........65
De Monti, B flat......65 Guignard..............1.00
Southard in F.........50
“ D................50
Weber, in E flat......65
“ G................50
Mozart, 2d, 7th & 9th, ea 65
“	1st Mass........65
“	12th............80
15 th..........65
Gounod, Messe Sol’nelle 80
Concone, mF...........65
Farmer, B flat........80
Lambillotte, Pascale.. .2.50
Niedermeyer.........1-25
Stearns, in A.......1.50
Thayer, No. 1........2.00
Zimmer...............2.00
Any of the above books mailed, postpaid, for the retail price.
OLIVEB DITSON & CO., CHAS. H. DITSON & CO.,
Boston.	711 Broadway, NEW YQBI
LYON «fc HEALY, Chicago.
318
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Tittsburgh, Fort Wayno & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of trains from North and. Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Cars to	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night Ex Ex Sa & Su
° NEVr YORK.			
Lv. CHICAGO		9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE				2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	5 20 a.m
“ Lima		4 35 “	1 25 a.m.	S 00 “
“ Forest		5 34 “	3 01 “	9 17 “
“ Crestline		7 00 “	4 40 “	11 10 “
“ Mansfield.		7 50 “	5 20 “	11 50 “
“ Orrville		9 42 “	7 12 “	1 46 p.m.
“ Massillon		10 15 “	7 45 “	2 19 “
“ Canton		10 33 “	8 00 “	2 38 “
“ Alliance		11 15 “	8 40 “	3 20 “
“ Rochester		1 IS a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
“ Pittsburgh		2 20	12 15 p.m.	7 05 “
Lv. Pittsburgh		3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
“ Altoona		7 30 “	5 55 “	12 10 a.m.
“ Harrisburg		12 05 p.m.	11 05 “	4 13 “
“ Baltimore		6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
“ Washington		9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
“ Philadelphia.		4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
“ New York		7 35 “	6 50 “	11 15 “
“ New Haven		11 10 “	10 49 “	3 36 p.m.
“ Hartford		12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	5 55 “
“ Springfield		1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
“ Providence		4 25 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
“ Boston		5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. itnss, S. r. & T. A
CANDYI CANDY! CANDYI
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
100 Van Buren St., CHICAGO, ILE.
*' Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy..................................15c
Fine Mixed Candy..............................25c
Choice Mixed Candy............................35c
Caramels......................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy......................25c
Proportionately Low Prices to Wliole-sale Casli Buyers.
St,
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.) -
CONDUCTED BV THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirements of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements. Every portion of the' building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions*to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
Eor further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1874-75, or address
St. Mary’s Academy,
• Notre Dame, Ind.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SLAJST FRARTCISOO,
Sacramento, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Green Bay, Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and wifi take no other.
This popular route is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, well-b1’lasted and perfect track of steel rails, Westinghouse air brakes, Miller’s safety platform and couplers, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity -with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modem railway traveling.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points \est of the’Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	x.
Marvin Hughitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent.
J
Chicago, Rock Island, and. Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, comer Van Bnren and Sherman streets, as follows:
.	Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m.	4 00 p.m.
Peru accommodation........................ 5 00pm.	9 30 a.m.
Night Express.............................10 00 p.m.	6 15 a.m.
M. SMITH, Gen’l Pass. Agent.
H. RIDDLE,
General Superintendent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	10 pm 12 01 pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 20 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via '
Main Line.............................7	30 am 9 40 pm
Peoria Day Express.............••••...	.7 5o pm 9 30 am
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.... .7 50 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 lO.pm 12 01 pm Joliet Accommodation..;................9 20 am 4 30 pm
J. C. McMullin; Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
!
i
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	319
. (THE OLD RELIABLE .
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.	•
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladie- and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s 'will find here all the comforts ot home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, »Pronrietor8 CAPTAIN MILLS, f ^roPr*etors.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL, Opposite the Post Office, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. Rates, §2.00 Per Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 21,1875, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 40 a m.. Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo
10 30; Cleveland3pm; Buffalo 0 15.	-
IO 13 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo,5 35pm; Cleveland 10 15.
11 355 a m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 £0; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo! 05 am.
O 13pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7(5; Buffalo, 1 10p u .	’
7 53 p m, Toledo Express. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,2 30; Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 pm.
4= 40 p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 40 a m, Express. Arrives at Laporte 4 15 p m, Chicago 6 30 am
5 SOam, Pacific Express. Arrives fat Laporte 5 45; Chicago 820 am.
3 p m. Evening Express. Arrives at Lap<rte3 55; Chicago, 6 30
3 43 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45. Chicago. 8 20.
S OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m, Chicago 11 30 a. m.
3 IO a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.	.
CHARLES PAINE. GenU Supt.
EZEHCISE FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS.
Dr. Jolinson’s rortiible l»arlor
Health Lift & Lift Exercise.
ELASTIC, REACTIONARY AND CUMULATIVE.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IX
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
A complete Gymnasium for Men, Women and Children. It yields all the Developing, Curative and Hygienic Effects of the Bulky, Three Hundred Dollar Machines— Doubles the Strength in a few months—Weighs but 18 lbs.; packs in a space 4x13x20 inches; affords a dead weight ift of from 50 to 1,000 lbs, with on’y 4 lbs. dead weight— Nickel Plated and Ornamental.—Poice, §25 and §30.— Send for full Circular.
/	, J. W. SCHERMERHORN & CO.,
14 Bond St., New York.
E’A.TTLICIC SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE I
Whilst I return my thanks to tbe patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave Io inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of manv of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
A-ttacliecl to tlie INntiomil Hotel. andAd-jacent to t lie Ivalee Shore and Micliigan Southern Dejpot.
Now. that telegraphic communication has been made between Noire Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Depot, I Bha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the pa'rous of Notre Dame and St. Mery’s, I fer, hypermission, to the Superiors of both Institutions. .
P. SH1CKEY
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 31, 1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	JNig t Expre s .	.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles	 “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 12 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 01 “ 12 15 pun 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 30 “ 7 00 a.m 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 43 “ 8 55 “ 12 47 am 3 50 “	9 00 p.m	j 11 15 “ 12 45 “	! 4 55 8 00 “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 37 “ 3 40 p,m 5 15 “ 7 35	9 50 a m 12 30 p.m 4 19 “ 5 45 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p-m 715 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 *•	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30 *•	9 50 “ 12 45 a.m	" 4 30 “	- . 5 45 “	‘ 8 00 “
Wiles and Sontlx Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. “ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7 15 p m. 7 23 “	§9 06 a.m. 9 07 “	§7 00 p.ur 7 07 “
Ar. Niles—	9 00 “	8 00 “	9 40 “	7 40 “
GOING SOUTH.			
Lv. Niles—	6 30 a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00 a.m.	§5 00 p.m
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4 56 “	8 32 “	5 32 ’•
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5 05 “	8 40	5 40 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
§Sunday only.
G. L. Elliott.	Wx B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen'l Sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
' ' B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dam*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
320
fcteh
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
Z5ETTTIST,
109 ISZETCBETG-^ATT STBEET,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
D. W. RUSS & CO.
KEEP THE .
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS Fer Meals, Oysters,
ICE OZEdZEATA; PIES, ETC.
MEALS A.T ALL HOURS. ,
ESTABLISHED 1852.
M lahur &
.	Dealers in
BOOTS JNTSTZD SHOES.
The Largest Retailing House in the State
CcniETOf Whingtou sa ani Mgaa Sts., SOUTH BEND.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
MEYEE TuTVIJSTG-STOTST, 60 "Washington St.,
Three Doors West ol Blum’s Cigar Store,	SOUTH BEND, IND
^^Keeps on hand a laree stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
PRANK MAYR
. KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
"•	Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS AND 'JBWELBY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENTGrHAVIINGr A SPECIALTY
Repairing Done in the Most Skillful Manner.
60 WASHINGTON, St,,
■	. sottttt hhetid-
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD,
(Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND COMMISSIONED FOR ALL STATES, 206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special ^Attention Given to Depositions.
A. C. SHIRE, WHOLESALE Dealer in Havana Cigars, 1O1 Main Street,
Two Doors South Of Ei. Gilleil’s,	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA'
[Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
. SHAMPOOING, ETC.
TTZEBTBU’Y' SPETH, Corner Washington and. Michigan Sts., (Under Coonley’s Drug Store)
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
’	Importers and. Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STHEET,
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. BUZBY & GALLAGHER, MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gents’ Furnishing Goods, Hats, Caps, etc., 109 Michigan St., SOLTTH EETsTJD, T3SrZDTJLTSr-A.. The Blind
A. McKay, Erop., JSTILKS, ^lOZZIOAJST-Free Hack to asci from all Trains for Guests of the House The Students’ Office, HEKRY BJLTTJVE, _ Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc No. 54= "Washington St., .south bejstjd, itju.