Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vic turns; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 19, 1879.
Number 33.
Our Campus.
i.
-The College Campus now is green, That late was mantl’d o’er with snow, And, thus obscuring ev’ry scene, Made life unpleasant here below,— But since the birds are back again, We hear with joy their gladsome strain.
ir.
Along the walks how grand it looks To see, each “ rec.,” the promenade Of those who never leave their books, Save to refresh their minds—’tis said. But since these days so lovely came, We all enjoy thee, Notre Dame.
‘ in.
Beside thy fences some lie down To talk the pleasant hours away, While others often try to drown Such thoughts as would their books portray; Fuming—walking here and there, In truth they seem devoid of care.
IV.
When lounging on thy carpet floor, I oft did wonder why you seem’d So like a book of moral lore, From which ten thousand lessons gleam’d. And, yet, it’s true,—since all declare How much is learned by students there.
v.
The little birds a lesson bring Of labor, friendship, love and joy When first they come at early spring; Which tells us how we should employ Our time and actions for the best, That God may crown us ere we rest.
VI.
The spider, chipmunk, little ant, The bee, the worm, the flying bat, Are trying now to thus implant, By their example, virtues that Will make us happy, prosp’rous, free, When launch’d upon life’s stormy sea.
vn.
“Thou art, O God, the life and light Of all this wondrous world we see! ” Thou’rt written in the stars by night, And daily all doth shine in Thee. Indeed all nature doth proclaim Your Campus bless’d, 0 Notre Dame!
John B. McGrath.
—Which is the oddest, the man who asks an odd question or the one who answers it? The one who asks, because hejs the querist.
A Lecture on Queer People.
BY E. E. COLLINS.
[Although the following rather lugubrious article is the first'contribution with which our esteemed friend Mr. Collins has favored the Scholastic, we are nevertheless convinced that to secure for it a favorable reception from the Notre Dame students, as well as the reading public, it will require no words of praise from us. The name of the author will be, to all who have the pleasure of his acquaintance, a sufficient guarantee of the excellence of the production. However, for the benefit of those readers of the Scholastic who may not enjoy the pleasure and privilege above alluded to, it may be well to state that Mr. E. E. Collins, contrary to the general impression, is in no way related to that historical or mythical celebrity of the Collins family whom his intimates were wont to address familiarly as “Tom.” This last named personage was, according to the legend, one whose exact whereabouts it was at times a matter of serious difficulty to ascertain. The Collins whose name adorns our columns is, on the contrary, a gentleman who is always to be found where the interests of humanity are to be promoted, or the faults, follies and vices of the age call for the lash of the satirist. It was his original intention, as announced in a previous issue, to have the lecture on “ Queer People ” published in pamphlet form and sold for the benefit of the yellow-fever sufferers, but on more mature reflection he has concluded to dedicate it, not to the interests of any particular caste or class, but to the service of mankind in general through the columns of the Scholastic.]
O this world quite strange is— Everyday brings forth new changes I
That’s a fact: indeed these changes come so fast that a fellow can’t keep up with- them. Well, this is a queer world! But no; I’ve made a slight mistake; ’tis a pretty snug little affair, after all! ’Tis the people that are queer. Ah, now I have the right end of the rope! Yes, there are a great many queer people in this pretty rolling world of ours, but of all the queer people I have seen here below, some of the croaking, growling and grumbling, gossipping and snarling, snapping, sour, sulky, fidgety, fretful, faultfinding, tattling, backbiting students at No (there! I had almost become guilty of indulging in a personality!) are the queerest. And some of them are queer, or I don’t know the meaning of the word. They think everybody queer but themselves, and everything wrong that is not as they would wish it—and I am sure that’s' queer. Some of them mind, or try to mind everybody’s business but their own. How queer! But as they love to be queer I suppose it can’t be. helped, and until they give

518
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
up this hobby of queerness they will be apt to remain so. It is queer they don’t know that people who deserve the most censure themselves are generally the most apt to he always blaming and scolding everybody around them— their friends, neighbors, and fellow-students. It is queer that such people never discovered that the sharpest tongues and the foulest lives usually go together. It is queer also that those who are so keen-sighted as to see only other people’s faults are stark-blind as to their own. ’Tis queer they never learned the application of our Saviour’s words to their own case: “Thou hypocrite, cast first the beam out of thy own eye.” Yes, it is queer; butthen if all this wasn’t queer, they wouldn’t be queer, and then they’d fight with themselves, and, like the Kilkenny cats, would eat themselves up for being like other people. As it is, they go through life fretting at everything that ain’t as queer as themselves.
A pretty man or woman is something like the wasp; however, to the honor of the wasp be it said that he won’t sting you unless you disturb him; but a fault-finding, peevish, dissatisfied mortal goes through life buzzing and stinging without provocation.
Now, friends, don’t be queer; it is useless. It makes nothing come right. It gets no missed lessons; it sets no broken bones; it stops no leaks; it mends no broken slates; it saves no damaged grain; it makes nobody like you, and makes people only laugh at you.
I might add to what I have just said that you will find queer people all over the world. Go where you will, you will find some one that is always talking and making fun of his neighbors.
I didn’t mean to say that all the students of Notre Dame are queer, but some of them look and act very queer. You may all laugh and talk, but it is so! You may think me a queer kind of a fellow, but I always try to mind my own business. And I also like other people to attend to theirs. For instance, how would you like a person to be always picking at you, and talking to you of things that do not concern either himself or you; and trying to attend to your business, or to get you to help him to attend to somebody else’s business,—how would you like it ? Would it not be queer of him to do so ? But how can you help him? If people like to be queer, neither you nor any other person can help them.
There are some very dangerous fish swimming around this great world, of very mischievous habits; they are known by the generic term of Backbiters. There are several families of this genus, but all related by blood, such as the “tattlers,” the “slanderers,” the “ falsifiers,” the “ de-famers,” etc. These backbiters are most numerous, and to catch these fish and secure them for his service old Satan has a six-pronged hook for as many kinds of bait; for instance, one prong is concealed with the bait of suspicion, another with insinuation, another with whisperings, another with surmise, another with gossip, and another with scandal. These fish are very fond of this bait, bite very eagerly at it, and sometimes swallow the whole hook—six prongs, bait and all. They are very much feared by the more quiet, stay-at-home kind of fish, because of the mischief they make among their neighbors, and moreover, they very often devour whole families with their enormous jaws of slander.
And so it goes—from one thing to another. When there is something ugly said about friends, neighbors, fellowstudents, or whoever it may be, it causes a great deal of
trouble. Scandal is a bad practice for anyone, and if the scandalmonger don’t be careful he’ll swallow old Satan’s hook. If you mind your own affairs, there will be no difficulty in getting along with anybody; but, as I have said, people who are in the queer state of mind can’t mind their own business, but must attend to that of others, and stick their nose into other people’s business. If you continue prying into other people’s affairs you may get caught in a trap, and then will have to call on some of the queer class to help you out. O tongue! thou art a vile thing, but we cannot do without thee.
A great many people have gone to ruin on account of their tongue. If you like to j oke, take care not to carry the joke too far. Carrying a joke beyond the proper limits leads a person into trouble. So be careful when you joke that you do not hurt any person’s feelings, or carry the joke so far as to get yourself hurt. That often happens.
A person that leads one of those queer lives never feels happy. He is doing something all the time to injure some of his friends, neighbors, or fellow-students. That is characteristic of the queer class of people. Now, the upright, honest, free-hearted person is not inclined that way; he hurts nobody; he is on good terms with his neighbors and fellow-students; he does not even try to injure those queer fellows who by their malpracticeshave injured him. Everybody is an honest man’s friend; and a person that is honest has to be good, otherwise he is of the queer class. One who is at peace with God and men will always attend to his own business, and will go through this world unmolested.
For the benefit of those who wish to be miserable I will give a few rules by which they can attain their object. This may seem strange to some. “A queer idea!” you will say. Well, so it is, but I will meet these would-be miserables half way. The fact is, though, my writing these rules is not so queer after-allr'Yhere is no difficulty in being happy,—at least one might suppose so, as there are so many books and rules given to show the way to happiness. But who ever wrote a book and laid down practical rules to show the people the art and mystery of being superlatively miserable ? It is not my purpose,{however, to write a book upon this subject, but simply to lay down a few scientific rules which if strictly followed will, I promise, produce the most delightful misery anybody ever enjoyed. They are as follows:
1st. Never accommodate anybody if you can avoid it. Never visit the sick and afflicted; never give a farthing to the.poor; grind the face of the widow, and crush the heart of the orphan.
2d. Should you be induced to sign a note for your friend, never forget your kindness; but every hour in the day whisper to yourself, “I wonder if he will ever pay me?” Be suspicious; think everybody a thief, and means to cheat you, and conclude that in order to get along in the world you must turn sharper. In self-protection, closely examine every bill you take, and doubt its genuineness until you have put its owner to a great deal of trouble. Believe every dime offered you is but a sixpence crossed, and express your doubt of getting rid of it if you take it.
3d. Sit idle at the window, and look over the way at your neighbor’s beautiful house, which he has recently built and paid for, and say to yourself, “Oh that I were a rich man! ”
4th: Brood over your misfortunes, and believe that at no distant day you will come to want. Always meet trouble
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	519
half way, and invite it to go home with you. Let the poor-house ever be in your mind, with all the horrors of poverty and distress.
5th. Get angry with your neighbors about trifles, and think you have not a friend in the world. Never smile; but always wear a sour face. Weep and sigh twelve hours out of twenty-four. Often take a walk in a grave-yard, and wonder when you will be dead and buried.
6th. Believe everybody hates you and is trying to crush you. See everybody’s faults, and not their virtues. Look upon every man as a hypocrite. Make mountains out of mole-hills; strain out a gnat and swallow a camel.
7th. Make everybody’s business your own; pry into other people’s secrets, and get your trouble for ycur pains; and then, half mad with disappointment, gossip among your neighbors about some stuff the nightmare whispered in your ear. Never stay at home, but go to your neighbors with the broom of scandal in your hand, and waste your precious time in sweeping a few dry chips from their pavement. Then you won’t die for want of exercise and a little fresh air.
Whoever follows the above directions will be miserable to perfection.
Ambition.
BY J. J. QUINN.
The soul of man is an active principle; wealth, honor, pleasure fill up the measure of his feverish existence, but all combined will not afford him complete satisfaction. He is ever soaring upward; but the higher he ascends, the more distant he seems from the object of his aim. Let the humble citizen win a crown by fortune’s favor, it will but stimulate and set aglow his inmost soul to greater deeds.
Ambition is but natural to the human species, and but feeble is the effort to tame its almost uncontrollable power. The counsels of reason and the lessons of experience seem utterly powerless to influence the votaries of this passion. The tragic end of Julius Casar was an example for inordinate ambition to tremble at; yet Augustus did not quail to see him struck; the former perished in the attempt to seize a crown, the latter placed it on his brow without a struggle.
Now, since the vast majority of mankind is subject to the influence of this passion, and since a wise Creator has given no useless power to man, is ambition a good to be followed of an evil to be avoided? The proverbial “modus in rebus ” is no less applicable in this case than in the various other phenomena of which man is the object. If some glittering bauble is held out for our possession, or some pet idea has so seized the mind that it becomes identical with our very being—if under these circumstances the chained passions of the heart are loosed, means disregarded, and the object alone kept in view, then ambition becomes excessive. This is the main cause why men are led to a forgetfulness of justice. They are entirely absorbed in the pursuit of empire, honors and glory; and if the object of their desires is of such a nature that several cannot attain pre-eminence, the sacred ties of society are sundered in the violence of the contest. Men of the greatest soul and most exalted genius possess this failing; such a spirit never measures its acts by their probable consequences; deliberation has abandoned it, and blind impulse is the
monarch. This you always recognize as the harbinger of distress and misery. It is this which in time of war desolates the rich fields and smiling villas. In peace it is the occasion of faction and strife among parties, becoming as j hurtful to the princes who are led by it, as to the people ; who have been robbed of their liberties. The very name of this affection is attached with stigma: because we generally associate it with a grasping aim, insensibility to the feelings of others, or an undue superiority. Hence Brutus said that although “ Caesar was an honorable man, still he was ambitious’’; hereby considering this a censurable point in his character.
All inordinate ambition is unworthy of virtue, and can never meet the approval of the just, however nicely it may be veiled under patriotic and religious motives. But there is a laudable ambition, which scorns dishonor. Its aim is excellence, justly acquired; to follow it is ennobling; to reject it, obscurity. You may behold it asserting itself in the race for distinction among the intellectual giants of the world, or you may discern it in the efforts of the cottager to ameliorate his condition.
Truly the intellect was never destined to bloom and wither away again in hopeless obscurity. Men of extraordinary capacities may be of infinite service to the world, when their genius is well directed. But we should impute it as a blot on their character did the lack of spirit retard them from reaching their goal. Was it not this sublime impulse, and resolution to excel, that raised the humble Shakespeare to be the “ prince of poets ” ? Does not the same magnanimous spirit gleam forth in the ardor of every zealous student ? This we cannot call pride, presumption, or conceit, but the material and very essence of true greatness.
Titles and honors are generally the reward of virtue, talents, and energy. Bold, rash and uneducated men may have been elevated in a moment of popular frenzy and insurrection to stations of trust and importance, but who ever beheld such a triumph of long continuance ? Popular ingratitude, that most fickle and treacherous of things, which, like the receding tide, leaves our boat dry upon the shore when most we need it, will flow back again to cast up such creatures as the fragments of a wreck. Strong energy and honest ambition are necessary for every individual, to play well his part in life. Who ever lacks them is the grovelling creature of inferiority, and cannot be deemed virtuous, because he refuses to meet his end. This is the true ambition which has spurred on the ingenuity of successive ages, and has aspired to all that is perfection in art and science. To emulate and not to imitate, to raise the mind above low objects and little pursuits, may be deemed its peculiar function. Milton expresses the true conception of laudable ambition in the Lycidas when he says:
“Fame is the spur which the clear spirit doth raise (That last infirmity of noble mind)
To scorn delights and live laborious days.”
Annihilate that spirited desire for superiority in man, and you destroy his activity. Supplant this grand incentive to noble deeds, and the world will neither advance nor retard. If Homer had never lived, Milton, Shakespeare or Dryden might probably have never been known to fame. Newton, Bacon, and Leibnitz would perhaps have attained but local fame had not the inventive skill of predecessors fired their intellects. Bead the celebrated actions of Cannae, Thermopylae or Waterloo—where heroes fought for life, and laurels decked the conqueror, and you will sigh to

520	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
be a soldier. But pass on to those very same actions described in the undying muse of a popular poet,—your soul is fired with emulation, and secretly you aspire to poetry. This is simply nature. It is the magical wand at whose touch the poltroon is made a man, and genius culminates in fame. Superiority will undoubtedly meet with envy and malignance. No man ever succeeded in conciliating all. But true greatness can well afford to castigate such vulgar scorn with the lash of contemptuous silence. The world is ever more for censure than applause; it will slander you in one breath, it will deify you in the next, but a man of spirit will contemn the praise of the base and ignorant, and only seek the approval of merit from worthy judges. “Laudari a laudato mro,"—to be praised by the praised,—should be the struggle and aim of genius. Then, if its talents are overrated, presumption is not aroused; and if undervalued, time and impartial criticism will remedy th e deficiency. Ambition, therefore, restrained within due limits, and having a useful and virtuous end in view, is elevating and praiseworthy. Never allowing it to degenerate into an ungovernable passion, but always making its measure consist in the testimony of a good conscience, we may be safe in its indulgence.
'	The Future.
BY L. J. EVERS.
Of all the topics which man can consider, none perhaps is more vague, although none is more important, than that of the future. We are, I might say, always situated between two extremes—the past and the future. The past has been realized, and whatever fortune favored it with, man has utilized to the best of his ability. We are now in a passive condition; society has indeed a comparatively tranquil aspect, but we can feel that there is a change taking place, be it for good or for evil. The days of feudal lordship and tyranny have passed, and freedom is proclaimed supreme. Yes, freedom has come decked in all its splendor, but we fear that with it has come an idea which may seem to grow out of it, but which is a most potent agent for the destruction of all freedom. Time with its mighty waves rolls on, and those who take part in the world’s great debate are hurried off to the grave; new ones appear, and they too are carried down on the mighty stream. This transition pertains not so much to the political, as to the moral and intellectual freedom of man, if I may so call it. God grant that it may not be our lot to witness the horrid scenes which took place at the close of the last and at the beginning of the present century. At that time the whole of western Europe was in an upheaved condition. France was swayed by fanatic leaders, ambitious to hand their names down to posterity, even to be held in execration. She was rent by intestine factions panting for the blood of their king. What an animal is man when he has lost all sense of morality! At this time, man was so degraded as to bow before the so-called “ Goddess of Reason.” The royal prerogative and popular power had become powerless ; all law, human and divine, was abolished by the blind ambition of the populace. As long as intestine factions and factious constitutions lasted, government could not be a free agent. The contagion had taken root in Spain too, which had so bravely withstood all the hostile attacks of the Turk and Saracen. Her sister kingdom, Portugal,
though small, was overrun with those enemies of freedom. Yes, I repeat, may we never again behold the days of a Robespierre, a Marat, a Danton, or a Barrfire.
We almost blush to say that we are now in the midst of a revolution—not of a bloody nature, but of one which works like a venomous serpent in the midst of a garden of blooming flowers. What lion is more to be feared, what more furious and destructive than one clothed in lamb’s skin ? It is morals and manners which are in this degrading condition. It is not that we are in any way averse to the people and customs of this nineteenth century that we draw such a dark picture of it. No; we concede that in many respects our age is superior to any former one, and that since the commencement of the present century a wonderful change has taken place—in many cases for the better, in others sadly for the worse. But do we know what is the cause of this decline in the moral state of man ? Certainly we do. Sensational literature is one of the principal causes. We look back with regret, and have little hope of the return of those days when those agents of Satan, sensational journals, were not in such repute. It is only during the last few years that this sort of reading has taken such a root in the mind of the people in general. Its circulation is from the palace to the hovel. The sad effects of reading these journals are but too evident. This kind of literature is taking such a sway over the minds of our present growing up generation that it becomes the duty of every city to make laws for its suppression, or society will fall to ruin. It is among the lower classes especially that this species of literature finds its most constant readers. Among them it is deemed a mark of distinction to be familiar with the plots of the latest novels. Books which contain sound moral instruction are packed on the back shelves, only for the few to read, while a story of some brave hero starting out in the world to seek his fortune, by plunder, murder, or in some other daring manner, is placed on the most prominent shelf. The mind becomes so contaminated with these that it cannot bear the sight of a book of history or science.
The effect which novels produce oa the mind is also a great evil. The person while reading them thinks of nothing but of knowing how the hero turns out. The mind, by reading them frequently, falls into that careless and desultory manner of reading, and never gives any reflection to the subject. Many a poor father and mother sadly bewail the fate that has befallen their sons by reading this trashy literature. A novel appears, with a plot relating how a young man started out on the journey of life, and by leading a predatory course, by murdering, by counterfeiting, turns out to be a rich, comfortable man. Its alluring style—a feature in all these novels and journals—captivates the mind of some young, innocent person, and the ideas which are in the story take such a root in his heart that he begins to think, Why cannot I become rich in the same way ? Such reading as this comes from the press every week, every day. In many of these trashy pamphlets, the most sacred and moral subjects are ridiculed and satirized, and the dark side of every picture is shown. The finest picture is not always painted on the smoothest canvas. Two sculptors were once ordered to make a statue for the king’s palace, the better of which would be placed on the dome. One of the sculptors carved a very fine one, and the other a very rough one. The king was captivated by the polished one, and had it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
521
placed on the dome. The next day he came to view his supposed ornament, but to his surprise he could not distinguish what it represented. It was taken down and the other one raised in its place, and to the king’s astonishment it looked as real as life. Such a comparison may be applied to sensational journalism. These books and papers may be, and often are, gotten up in fine style, both in regard to language and make-up, but if true criticism be applied to them they vanish like the candle before the heat of the sun.
“ Ye meaner beanties of the night, Which poorly satisfy our eyes, What are you when the sun doth rise ?”
Sensational literature, if it continues to gain ground at the rate it does at present, will ultimately ruin society. The proprietors of such journals are a scourge to society. Government cannot exist without morality, and morals cannot stand if this species of literature carries on its insidious warfare. Many an innocent soul is brought to perdition by reading one of these demoralizing stories. Woe to the man who issues such obscene journals! “ It were better for him he had never been born.” Every soul lost through them will cry for vengeance on him who circulated them. Woe> too, to him who reads them!
Although we cannot despair altogether of the fortunes of our country, and of modern society in general, we have but a glimmering hope that the glorious days which society enjoyed before modern journalism took its rise will ever wholly return. Vigor is not at all wanting, talent has not decayed. No: society is indeed active, talent is displaying itself every day, only let it exert itself to extinguish this one dark spot.	.
There is another topic which has become trite these last few years from the number of times and the different circumstances under which it has been treated; I mean education. The present systems of education, too, cast a gloomy shadow over modern society; that is, education without religion. That ennobling knowledge, moral and holy instruction, science and religion combined, these are discarded, and reason alone held as the only guide. Science can never be taught with any practical benefit unless combined with religion. Science can only attain to a limited height, and there it stops. What would not religion have to sustain from some of our modern fanatics, if the hypothesis which endeavors to prove that man is only a developed species of monkey were substantiated ? But we can say, and without the least fear of erring, that our modern scientists will seek in vain for the lost link, for it never existed to be lost. Why do they take the monkey for their foundation ? why not some other animal, since there are many which come nearer to man in point of constitution than the monkey? The monkey has indeed a striking exterior resemblance to man, but his interior organization is far different. For example, iron pyrites have a striking outward resemblance to native gold, but there are many other metals which have a greater resemblance to gold in their interior combination.
Education without religion is a fraudulent education, and one that is productive of much evil; to it is mainly owing the fact that so much villainy exists to-day. Our present public-school system cannot therefore be encouraged by Catholic parents. Catholics are accused of being averse to education; but this accusation only serves to strengthen our argument. Behold the number of Catholic universities, colleges and parochial schools which are dis
persed all over the country! Can we be libelled with such a defamatory accusation? An eminent Protestant divine, speaking of this subject, said: “Education is in reality not only not repressed, but is encouraged by the Popish Church, and is a mighty instrument in its hands, and ably used.” What we want is a faith with well-defined principles, pure Christian virtues and habits of virtue firmly fixed in the daily routine of life. Virtue, like everything else, is acquired by habit, except the three cardinal virtues, which are directly infused by God. Catholics must have their religion pure and unalloyed. Some of those small points of difference seem only trifling, but it is an old saying that the drop of water constantly falling wears away the hardest rock. See the number of infidels, the number of practical atheists, with which the country is filled. This is the result of education without true religion. Society cannot stand except its members are true and Godfearing men; but these they can never ba unless they are brought up in the doctrines of the true religion. Such are some of the causes which should make us look at the future. We see what they are at present; but if these vices continue, what will they be in the future ?
Locusts as Food.
Prof. Charles V. Riley, State Entomologist of Missouri, has been the target of many newspaper shots since he announced his belief in the excellence of locusts as an article of diet, boiled, roasted, fricasseed and fried. Excepting locusts, most insects used for hnman food have been pre-curable only in small quantities, and as a matter of curiosity or epicurean taste. Locusts have, however, been an article of substantial food for man from immemorial antiquity. Among the Nineveh sculptures in the British Museum are representations of men carrying different kinds of meat to a festival; some of the men bring sticks to which locusts are tied. These insects are accounted among “clean meats” in Leviticus, and are elsewhere in the Bible spoken of as food for man. Herodotus mentions a tribe of Ethiopians that fed on locusts “ which came from southern and unknown districts.” Livingstone states that this is still the case with many African tribes. In Morocco, where locusts do damage every year, they are used for food whenever their increase seriously diminishes the crops. The insects are roasted and offered for sale in the market at Tangiers and in other cities. The locust is also used for food in Southern Russia. Many American tribes of Indians, as is well known, make use of locusts for food. As to the method of cooking, the Romans are said to have rosted them to a bright golden yellow. Locusts of the Old World are mostly large, and can be easily prepared by first detaching their legs and wings, and then by roasting, boiling, broiling, frying or stewing. In Russia they are salted and smoked. In Morocco they are salted by the Hebrews, but are ordinarily boiled and then fried. The Hebrew population used the salted locusts as part of the composition of a dish which contains almost everything eatable, is put into the oven on Friday night, and taken out on the Jewish Sabbath, so that a hot meal is provided without lighting a fire on the latter day. A variety, of other methods of cooking were instanced by Prof. Riley. He had long desired to test the value of some of these methods, and took the opportunity afforded by the recent raids of locusts at the West. He found the flavor of the cooked insect—prepared in almost any of the
522
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
methods described—quite agreeable. Fried or roasted in nothing but their own oil they had a pleasant nutty flavor, peculiar, but agreeable. He boiled them and stewed them, and found them admirable. At a hotel he endeavored in vain to obtain assistance in the kitchen. The cooks and servants retired in disgust. The naturalists were obliged to do their own cooking, but the savory messes they concocted converted the kitchen, and cooks and guests alike agreed upon the excellence of the soups, fricassees and fritters, which were materially composed of locusts. The experiment was a great success. Prof. Riley describes a variety of instances in which the cooked locusts were eaten by his friends, with scarcely a dissenting opinion in their favor.—Exchange.
Bailway Travel in Europe.
[The following notes of railway travel in Europe were written a few years ago by one of the Juniors, Master Willie Hake, of Grand Rapids, Mich., who took a trip to Europe for the benefit of his health:]	.
“ The European continent is well supplied with railroads. They are built by and are under control of the Government, and the Government receives the earnings. The locomotives are of the old fashidh, have no real cow-catcher, and are smaller than what ours are, yet they go very fast, even with a long string of carriages. The passenger cars are divided into three classes, called respectively the first, second and third class, the prices and accommodations ranging according to the means of the people. The fare is, in general, about the same as in the United States. The third class has but a wooden bench; the second has its seats upholstered ; and the first is about the same as the second, with a curtain and a'small place for the ashes of cigars. Each car, or coupe, has about five doors for entering, on the side. The cars are divided into two compartments each, by a partition running crosswise. There are generally no sleeping-cars. At least I saw but one while there, and that was at Munich. Connections are made belter than in America, and their depots are also superior to ours. Even a place of 40 inhabitants has a better depot than a place of 60,000 or 90,000 in the United States. The conductors are very rough and impolite to the passengers. They even sometimes lock the doors. About tickets, it is very unhandy. You buy your ticket and then you have to run around to about a dozen different offices. A trunk is more trouble than it is worth. In checking, you have your trunk weighed first, and then have it carried to a place where a bill is placed on it. You have also to pay for it wherever you go. The roads are very rough. Switzerland is the only country where they have cars like those of our own country—that is, built in the same style, but not so grand. America may well feel proud of its railroads, and it deserves the praise of having the best in the world. The grand sleeping cars and dining-room cars we have cannot be surpassed anywhere. The American desires everything fast and handy. America may well boast of its superior accommodations for railway travel, and is far superior to Europe in this line.”
—Jerrold one day said he would make a pun upon anything his friends would put to him. Thinking to give him a poser, a friend asked him whether he could pun upon the signs of the zodiac; to which he promptly replied, “ By Gemini I Cancer.”
Scientific Notes.
—Professor Daniel Vaughan, known in the United States and Europe as an astronomer, linguist and arithmetician, died in the hospital at Cincinnati, Ohio, yesterday, aged 58. Professor Vaughan was born in Ireland, but had passed most of his life in America. He was better known in the scientific circles of Europe, where he was even noted as an authority, than in America.	.
—The government of Victoria has recently issued the first decade (containing ten colored plates) of a “ Prodro-mus ” of the zoology of the colony. One of the most interesting of the invertebrate animals figured in the work is the gigantic earth worm, named Megascolides Australis by Prof. McCoy, which inhabits the rich soil of the Brandy Creek district of Victoria, and attains the surprising length of from 5 to 6 feet.
—The disinfection of letters containing paper money during the height of the Russian plague panic was effected on the the Prussian border by exposing them for six hours in a peculiarly constructed closed vessel to the fumes of sulphuric acid. It was not considered necessary to open or puncture the letters, since it was proved by experiment that the vapor of the acid penetrates the pores of paper, however firmly made. In the laboratoiy of the Berlin Board of Health, blue litmus paper, enclosed in four thicknesses of paper, and in several envelopes tightly compressed, was intensely reddened by being subjected to the fumes of this acid.
—In Nubia there are groves of acacias extending over 100 miles square. The most conspicuous species, says Dr. Schweinfurth, is the Acacia fistula. Its Arabic name is “soffar,” meaning flute or pipe. From the larvae of insects which have worked their way to the inside, their ivory white shoots are often distorted in form and swollen out at their base into a globular bladder-like gall, about one inch in diameter. After the insect has emerged from a circular hole, this thorn-like shoot becomes a sort of musical instrument, upon which the wind as it plays produces the regular sound of a flute. On this account the natives of the Soudan name it the “ whistling tree.”
—An Egyptian desert snail was received at the British Museum on March, 25,1846. The animal was not known to be alive, as it had withdrawn into its shell, and the specimen was accordingly gummed, mouth downward, on to a tablet, duly labelled and dated, and left to its fate. Instead of starving, this contented gasteropod simply went to sleep in a quiet way, and never woke up again for four years. The tablet was then placed in tepid water and the shell loosened, when the dormant snail suddenly resuscitated himself, began walking about the basin, and finally sat for his portrait, which may be seen of life-size in Mr. Woodward’s “ Manual of the Mollusca.” Now, during those four years the snail had never eaten a mouthful of any food, yet he was quite as well and flourishing at the end of the period as he had been at its beginning.
—The Amia calva is a fresh-water fish, abundant in the Mississippi River and the great lakes. It attains a length of about two feet. Prof. Burt G. Wilder, of Cornell University, has published in the Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, an account of a series of experiments which seem to show conclusively that Amia not only exhales, but also inhales air, and that this respiration is carried on by means of its swim-bladder. This is so much subdivided that Cuvier and others compared it to the lung of some reptiles. Experiments seemed to show that the aerial respiration was more active when the water in which the fish lay was imperfectly aerated. The average of 23 measurements of the amount exhaled was 13 c. centimeters. The exhaled air contained 3 per cent, of carbonic acid; and, when the fish was fasting, it contained at least 1 per cent. The fish displays great powers of endurance of privation of water. On one occasion a specimen was kept out of water for 65 minutes without any apparent discomfort or injury. During most of the time the gill were covers tightly closed, but there were regular movements of the jay, hyoid apparatus, and sides of the mouth.	.
TfiE NOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
523
Art, Music and Literature.
—Matthew Arnold has made selections from the poems of Wordsworth, which Macmillan & Co. will soon add as a single volume to their Golden Treasury Series.
—Robert Browning has accepted the Presidency of the new Shakespeare Society, which was left vacant at the time the society was founded, and was not to be filled “ till one of the greatest living poets sees that it is his duty to take it.
—Turgenieff, who recently arrived at his home in Moscow, resolutely refused to listen to the entreaties of his friends that he would write a fresh novel. He so much dislikes the way in which his last work, “ Virgin Soil,” was treated by his countrymen that he has resolved, it is said, never to publish another story.
—The Society which was recently founded in Man-. Chester for the purpose of studying Mr. Ruskin’s works has, we are informed, assumed the title of “ Society of the Rose.” It is a significant fact that the object of the Society is to study Mr. Ruskin’s writings on their economic and social side rather than on their artistic.—Atherusum.
—A correspondent of the Indianapolis Journal writes:' “Appleton & Co. made §8,000 000 out of ‘Picturesque America’ and a Hartford publishing house made so much out of Seward’s Travels that it gave to his heirs a check for §67,000 as their royalty. The book wasn’t good for any thing either.” The correctness of the last assertion is beyond dispute.
—A cable dispatch reports the death, at the age of 78, of Eliza Meteyard, an English authoress. She is better known to the reading public by her nom de plume of “ Sil-, verpen,” appended by Douglas Jerrold himself to a lead ing article written by her for the first number of his news' paper. Miss Meteyard has been connected with the Lon' don newspaper press, has contributed to periodicals, has written much on antiquarian subjects, on topics connected with sanitary movements, and on art design, especially pottery. Her first volume was “ Struggles for Fame,” published in 1845.
—The United States Consul at Munich, Germany, informs the department of state that an international art exhibition will be held at Munich from July 20 to Oct. 31, of the present year. Artists of all nations are invited to contribute paintings, statuary, architectural drawings, engravings and etchings. The exhibition is under the direct patronage of the king of Bavaria, who will award gold medals to artists whose works are recommended by the jury. Preparations on a grand scale are being made, and it will probably be the most important international art exhibition ever held in Europe.
—Mrs. Butler, nee Miss Thompson, who painted the world-famed “ Roll Call,” has two pictures in the Academy, London, this season. The first is the “ Escape of Dr. Bry-don from the Defeat and Massacre of the English Troops by the Afghans in 1843.” The English forces, under Gen. Elphistone, were annihilated when they invaded Afghanistan, in that year, and but one man survived. The picture represents the moment of his arrival within hail of the friendly walls of Jellabalad. The pony which bears him has hardly strength to stumble on; the man lifts his head with an almost dying effort. The other picture is an Irish recruiting scene.
—The largest book venture of this year will be John Russell Young’s “Around the World with Gen. Grant.” It is in the hands of that gigantic corporation, the American News Company, and its officers expect to make §l,000,000_ out of it in a single year. It is to have 800 new illustra' tions by the best artists, and to be printed on choice paper; it is to appear as a subscription work, in twenty numbers, at 50 cents each, and will make two octavo volumes aggregating 1,250 pages. The American News Company now has agents in everv town and locality in this country where there is a post-office, and its power is so great that it is feared by publishers. In fact, every publishing house in the United States, except that of the Harpers, is virtually controlled by this vast monopoly, and it dictates terms to them as if it owned them. It could probably bankrupt any pubUsher and stop any periodical supported by a general sale
if it should try. All publishers are at its mercy. The American News Company is to literatrue what the American press is to news.—Indianapolis Journal.
—The Annuaire of the Catholic University of Louvain for the present year has just been issued. It contains a list of the professors—seventy-three in number—a catalogue of the University establishments, in which mention is made of four colleges, of an ecclesiastical normal school, of an excellent library, of several laboratories, of several museums, of a botanical garden, and schools of medicine. The University counts ten Conferences of St. Vincent of Paul, of which the flourishing state proclaims the charity of the students. There are several literary and scientific societies of students, all actively at work. The number of students who passed the official examinations during the past scholastic year were 775, as compared with 642 in the previous year. The number of students at the University is 1,267, or 66 more than last year. At the end of this volume will be found a valuable monograph on the College of Adrian VI. It is not, perhaps, known that the Annuaire contains in past issues many important documents concerning the history of the old and new Universities of Louvain.
—A gentleman, late one evening, met his servant “ Hallo! where are you going at this time of night ? for no good, I’ll warrant.” “I was coming for you, sir.”
—In no country under the sun is educational discipline enforced with such rigor as in the Celestial Empire. A young Chinaman at Phillip’s Academy, Andover, is exceedingly backward in his studies. The faculty of the school sent an official notification of this fact to the Chinese Government, at whose expense the blockhead is being educated. The' Government acted promptly and vigorously. Its instructions were brief and comprehensive: “ Send him home and we’ll behead him.”—New York Tribune.
—Dumaine, as a pirate in Le Fleau dee Hers, was wont to excite the wonder of the spectators by extinguishing a candle with a pistol-shot. The trick was done by placing the light on a table near a small round hole in the “cloth ” behind it, through which the prompter blew out the candle as Dumaine discharged the pistol. Actuated by jealousy, or a love of mischief, a fellow actor one night covered the hole with a gold-beater’s skin, and when the pirate fired and the prompter blew the candle flared away in triumph. Dumaine drew another pistol from his belt, but before he could pull the trigger, the malicious joker had torn away the skin, and by blowing through the hole made the candle go out, apparently of its own accord, while Dumaine was mentally abusing the innocent prompter for his pet point not coming off as usual.—Chambers's Journal.
—If overdressing is chiefly a woman’s weakness, slovenliness is oftenest a masculine one. Slovenliness in the young too often is the index of other bad habits, while it is a failing which frequently renders age, venerable in itself, repulsive. Sometimes persons of genius fall into this fatal mistake, and the uncleanly, untidy, barely decent figure, forms a bitter satire on the greatness of human intellect, when contrasted with the exquisite poem, the philosophical essay, or the masterly novel, the work of the clever brain nevertheless content to inhabit such an uninviting shell. Poets who feed us with visions of the beautiful, authors and authoresses who delight in describing the most enchanting scenes and people, will sometimes appear personally in repulsively negligent apparel. To name contemporaries would be invidious, but the biography of the past serves us for the present with numerous illustrations from Dr. Johnson, with the shabbiest of wigs, to Professor Wilson, who was so careless of a handsome person that his neglect at last became intolerable. Sir Humphrey Davy was particularly negligent in matters of cleanliness, and so engrossed in scientific discoveries that frequently he did not remove his clothes for days together, simply throwing on a clean shirt and stockings over his unchanged linen, in order to be presentable at the dinner of his aristocratic friends; in this manner he often had three or four suits on at a time, and those who knew him used to marvel at his rapid increase or decrease in bulk. A certain wealthy marquis of the past generation was accustomed to walk out in such dilapidated habiliments that persons offered him alms, which, by the way, he quietly pocketed.—Leisure Hour,
524
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, -April 19, 1879,
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.	‘
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind. '
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Small Faults.
We are often warned against grievous transgressions, and with good reason. But it might be questioned whether it is so necessary to guard against them as against small faults. When a man’s early training has not been entirely neglected or perverted, his own conscience will take the alarm at the very idea of a serious fault. Where is the young man, for instance, that will join a band of burglars in breaking into a house, who has all his life previously been honest in every circumstance ? Where is the youth that will at once abandon the practice of his religion, going no more to church, neglecting the Sacraments, becoming a practical infidel, without going through the various stages of neglect of lesser duties? Thus it is found that those words of divine Wisdom are verified in daily experience, and are founded in the very nature of things: “ He that contemneth small things, shall fall by little and little.” (Eccli., xix, 1.) It is those smaller faults, daily committed without any remorse, that lead one into greater sins. The child that is accustomed to have no respect for the property of others in small matters, when he grows up and the occasion presents itself, and some great temptation assails him, will be likely to yield; he will become a robber, a cheat, or a defaulter, according to the circumstances in which he may be placed.
The youth who takes a delight in uttering or listening to vulgar language, may readily be brought to use language that is of double meaning; from this he passes by a short step to open and undisguised obscenity, if he happens to find himself in a degraded company where such language will be relished. Growing accustomed to hear and use such language, it would be a miracle if corresponding ideas should not flit through his mind, be dwelt upon occasionally with pleasure, and finally plunge him into a life of libertinism with all its terrible consequences for soul as well as for body.
It is a moral impossibility for a person to be accustomed
to dwell with pleasure on images that are foul without sometimes feeling the desire to gratify those base instincts of a nature that is corrupted by original sin. • Hence one of the great reasons why every real friend of youth will make use of all the precautions possible to guard the young against falling into bad company, where evil discourse may be heard, and against the reading of bad or dangerous books, where passionate intrigues are painted before the youthful imagination. The danger of such reading is doubly increased by the fact that the poison is in most cases artfully concealed. If the book were openly and undisguisedly bad, none would read it but those that are already tainted; but when the poison is hidden by the charms of style and the artifices used by skilful novelists, the unsuspecting may fall into the trap, and not be aware of their danger till the poison has worked its way into the system.
We admit the possibility of a man’s being once surprised into excess in drink—though it is not probable—who has all his life been temperate. But such an error, should it unfortunately be committed,- is not so likely to make a confirmed drunkard as is the practice of frequently indulging in slighter excesses which the individual is able to conceal, at the least in part, from his true friends. For by those frequent and less glaring excesses, the individual manages to deceive bis own conscience while the habit is steadily growing upon him; and he is at last a slave even before he had been aware of his danger.
We might thus find instances of a thousand kinds to show how dangerous it is to allow habits of offending in smaller matters to grow upon one’s self. It would simply be illustrating those words already quoted: “He that contemneth small things, shall fall by little and little.”
There is one more consideration to which the attention of all our young friends is called as showing the importance of not neglecting small things. Our life does not consist so much in great events and actions as in a thousand lesser actions. We cannot always be performing heroic deeds; we only occasionally soar up to the sublime, and we must be content to walk upon the level ground with our fellows for the greater portion of our lives. We should fill our own lives and those of our friends with a thousand little bitternesses unless we strive to gain the victory over ourselves in those apparently trifling circumstances in which we are placed. Brothers and sisters, husbands and wives, that will not put up with the least thing from each other, contrive to fill each other’s cup with bitterness. Why is this? Because they are accustomed to yield to those apparently insignificant assaults of temper, which could so easily be kept under with a little courage, aided by grace, but which are allowed to be victorious on every occasion.
We say then earnestly to all our young friends: Guard against little faults of all kinds; should you be surprised into them, repent; and if you are exact in correcting and rooting out those little weeds as soon as they begin to show themselves in the garden of your soul, there is not much danger that any poisonous plants will take root therein.
The Museum and Physical Cabinet.
We have observed with feelings of more than ordinary pleasure the rapid development within the last few years of the Museum and Physical Cabinet of the University. The additions made, during the last three years especially, are particularly valuable and interesting. Among these
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
525
may be mentioned the large osteological collection—one of the finest in the country—for illustrating the principles of comparative anatomy and zoology. It contains typical specimens of all the vertebrates, and some too that are found in but few museums in the United States. Chief among, these we have noticed a fine gorilla and chimpanzee, a potto, a babyrusa, an emeu, and several others that are particularly rare. The Veasey collection of fossils and minerals, and of stuffed specimens of birds and mammals, purchased last spring by Very Kev. President Corby, is, both on account of its extent and value, by far the most important addition ever made to the Museum at one time. As illustrative of the fauna and mineral resources of the Rocky-Mountain region it is all that could be desired. Besides these two large collections, numerous smaller ones have been received from time to time from various parts of the world—some obtained by purchase, and others donated by old students or friends of the institution.
In the Physical Cabinet we have noticed all the apparatus usually required in the teaching of Physical Science, and many others besides. The instruments for illustrating acoustics, optics, magnetism and electricity are the finest we have ever seen; while the apparatus for projecting, judging from the satisfaction these gave in the experiments we have seen performed with them, are perfect specimens of mechanical skill and ingenuity.
We have said that we have been much gratified in observing the increased facilities for studying the Natural and Physical Sciences, but we are still more gratified to see that there is no disposition either on the part of the administration or of the curators of the various departments to rest satisfied with what has already been effected, but on the contrary a determination to make yet more complete all the appliances for a successful prosecution in all their details of the various branches of the Scientific Course.
In the inductive sciences ours is certainly an age of progress, and although we have no sympathy whatever with those hot-headed and presumptuous theorists who imagine that science—that is, the physical and natural sciences— is destined to revolutionize the world, and physically, morally and intellectually ameliorate the condition of our race, nevertheless we do believe in a thorough study and investigation of the various objects, forces and phenomena of nature, and think that such investigation cannot be too much encouraged. Aside from any utilitarian value that such studies may possess, this cannot fail, when pursued in a proper spirit, to make the student happier and better. Nothing is calculated to give us more exalted ideas of God’s power and wisdom and beneficence than careful study and reverential contemplation of His works. It has well been saidjhat “ the irreverent astronomer is mad,” and the same can be said with equal truth of the student of any of the branches of natural science. A consideration of the infinitely great and infinitely small, the mysterious forces and wonderful adaptations observable in the natural world make an impression on even the most casual observer; but when it comes to a professed, or even an occasional student of nature, the impression made is not only much greater but more lasting.	'
New Music. >•
—We have received from W. L. Thompson, East Liverpool, Ohio, a new song and chorus entitled “My Grandfather’s Advice,” by Will L. Thompson. Price, 35 cents.
'	Personal.	.
—	Rev. Father Kelly, C. S. C., preached at Laporte, Ind., on Easter Sunday.
—	J. Eisenhauer and H. Haerly, of’78-9, are doing well in Huntington, Ind.
—	Mr. Tourtillotte, Toledo, Ohio, visited his son this week, who is a Minim here.
—	James A. Brown, of’76, is County Tax. Collector at Brownsville, Brown Co., Texas.	,
—	Rev. Father Zahm, C. 8. C., spent Easter with his pa- / rents and friends at Huntington, Ind.
—	Rev. Father Oechtering, rector of the church at Mishawaka, Ind., paid Notre Dame a flying visit on the 14th inst.
—	J. L. Saylor (Commercial), of ’76, is with Carnahan, Hanna & Co., wholesale dealers in boots and shoes, Fort Wayne, Ind.	.
—	William D. Smith (Commercial), of’76, and A.Kinson, of ’76, are in the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Freight Office, Chicago, Ill.	<	_
—	Rev. Father Patrick Riordan, of ’57, the esteemed rector of St. James’s Church, Chicago, Ill., is a candidate for the bishopric of Chicago.	.
—	Mrs. Kennedy, of Cincinnati, Ohio, spent a few days at Notre Dame this week, visiting her son, who made his First Communion on Easter Sunday.
—Denis J. Hogan, of’74, paid us a short visit this week. He is on his way to Paris, France, where he intends to spend some time visiting his brother.	'
—Mrs. Coghlin, accompanied by her little daughter, of S Toledo, Ohio, spent a few days at Notre Dame this week ’ visiting her sons who are members of the Minim Department.
—Mr. Michael Dillon, Valparaiso, Indiana, formerly a pupil at the Manual Labor School here, and now doing well in the above named city, spent a few days at Notre Dame this week visiting old friends. . r
—Edwin Washington Wile (Commercial), of ’72, son of Mr. Jacob Wile, the well known banker of Laporte, Ind., is, we are glad to hear, successfully engaged as book-keeper at the Peru Flax & Bagging Mills, Peru, Ind.
—Among the visitors this week were Mrs. Phillips and Mrs. C. E. Freeze, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Mrs. Kennedy, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs. Coghlin and daughter, Toledo, Ohio; Mrs. Clarke, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. W. N. Browne, Metamora,Mexico ; N. Bacon, Chicago, Ill.; J. A. Love, South Bend, Ind.; and Prof. W. 8. Beardsley, Washingtonville, Ohio.
—Mr. August Henquenet, founder of the promising Catholic settlement at Hope, Kansas, near Avalon, on the . Kansas Pacific Railroad, spent a few days with us the past ' week. He was accompanied by Mr. Carr&re, of Baltimore, a new acquisition to the Kansas settlement. Now that the grasshoppers have gone, Mr. Henquenet and the colonists have good hopes of large harvests, the land being very rich and easily cultivated. There are now about 79 families at the settelement, and they have a church in course of erection.	•	.
Local Items.
—Rec. on Easter Monday.
—The boats are now in fine order.
—Several fine recreation days this week.
—Washington Hall is undergoing repairs.
—The walking around the lake is excellent.
—Very few in the Infirmary these fine days.	'
—The classes go splendidly, so the professors say.
—Competitions next week in the Commercial Course..
—The disciples of Izaak Walton are rather few these days.
—Several new pictures have been added to the St. Cecilia room.
—Wednesday last was an excellent day for out-door sports.
526
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
,	—Our horticulturists are very busy putting their gardens
in order.
t	—The gardens in front of the Novitiate are in splendid
condition.
—There was a large number of visitors at Notre Dame this week.
—Bro. Robert is busy fixing up his little garden, just in front of our office.
—Some way or other, our friends on the Campus do not send in many locals.
—The grounds around the Calvary are being put in good order by the Novices.
—The Philopatrians have commenced the rehearsals for their coming Exhibition.
—“ How much do you weigh ? ” seems to be quite a common word those days.
—Are not the Senior baseball clubs going to reorganize ? We think it is about time.
—Several new books have been added to the College Library within the last few weeks.
—The collection for the Diocesan Seminary was taken ’ up in the church on Sunday last.
—The Juniors make good use of the swings, bars, rings, etc., etc., which are in their yard.
—The Philopatrians are busy learning their respective 1 parts for the coming Exhibition.
—The winter being over, the storm-doors are being removed from the different buildings.
—Several new trees are being planted around the Novi- tiate and Professed House grounds.
—The basebaliists of the Senior Department are 'somewhat backward about reorganizing.
. —The Minims were out fishing on Easter Monday. How successful they were we cannot say.
—Mr. Bonney was at his usual stand on Wednesday last and did, we believe, a pretty fair business.
—There is a “ Cable ” in the Philopatrian Society, not however, an Atlantic one, but probably a Pacific.
—ThePhilopatrian “Zouaves” are receiving instruction from the head prefect in the Junior Department.
—Navigation has opened at last, and now we may expect to see some good rowing between this and June.
—The recreation after supper, which commenced last week, seems to be enjoyed very much by the boys.
—We would call the attention of the students to the lecture on “ Queer People,” to be found on another page.
—We anticipate a fine boat-race in June. We understand that the crews will commence practicing immediately.
—The Philodemics will soon commence preparing for the Entertainment to be given by them on Moore’s Centenary.
—Master G. H. Donnelly, of the Junior Department, acted as censor-bearer during Holy Week, and performed that office creditably.
—Very Rev. Father-General has the best thanks of his - Minims for the “Easter-eggs ” he sent them in the shape of a large box of candy.
—The cake regularly given by the Junior refectorian ■ to the table kept in the best order was awarded this time to Bro. Philip’s table.
—The members of the Boat Club spend their recreation i hours in practicing for the June race. The Club is in splendid condition at present.
—Master Devitt, of the Junior Department, received a splendid forty-dollar “kettle-drum” from home this week. It will be heard at the next Exhibition.
—A game of baseball was played on the 14th inst. between the Atlantics and a picked nine of the Juniors. The game resulted in a score of 20 to 8 in favor of the Atlantics.
—The members of Bro. Leander’s table, in the Junior refectory, return thanks to Master Kennedy for a present given to them the other day in the way of a fine cake.
,	—A very interesting account of the play given by the
members of the Classical Department here, on April 1st, appears in the current number of Jfc Gee’s Illustrated Weekly.
—The baseball season in the Senior Department was opened on the 13th by a lively game between the Stars and the Mutuals. The result was in favor of the Stars by 11 to 2.
/ —The St. Cecilia room is still being ornamented, and when entirely finished will undoubtedly be one of the finest rooms around Notre Dame. It takes Prof. Lyons to fix up a boss room.
—An exciting game of baseball took place on Saturday last between two picked nines of the Junior Department. The score stood 9 io 10. There were also some good games of hand-ball played.
—The “Euglossians” will soon again favor us with one of their excellent Entertainments. Next time it will be the Juniors’ turn, and, no doubt, they will be as successful as their Senior friends.
—We noticed that the Junior Roll of Honor was very large last week. We hope the boys will try and keep it as large, if not larger, from this until June. A little exertion is all that is required.
—Vespers to-morrow will be the same as on Easter Sunday, with the exception of the Chapter and Hymn. These will be found on page 87 of the Vesperal. The Mass sung .will be the Afissa Parvulorum.
{ —Very Rev. Father Granger gratefully acknowledges the receipt of $10 from Mrs. F. Grever, of Cincinnati, Ohio, as a donation for the erection of the new Chapel of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame.
/. —The students of the Manual Labor School attended High Mass on Easter Sunday in regalia. Their beautiful banner, which they purchased a few1 months ago, was exhibited for the first time on that day.
y —The church was crowded with people on Easter Sunday, among whom were many Protestants from South Bend and the surrounding country, who came to witness the ceremonies of the Church on that day.
—The regular monthly Competitions were not held during the past week. The Class Honors and List of Excellence in the Course of Modern Languages and Fine Arts will, therefore, not be published till next week.
—Every student in the Collegiate Department should contribute regularly to the Scholastic. Several have already sent in very fine essays, and we hope that those who have not as yet done so will soon follow their example. ; —Although Monday last was recreation day, some profes-■sors were so enthusiastic about their classes as to give the customary instruction. We know two such, and their pupils think it funny that the professors prefer books to baseball or racket.
—At the last monthly visit to the Minim Department the Rev. Director of Studies examined in Arithmetic. In the First Class, Masters A. M. Coghlin, Geo. Rhodius and N. Nelson did best, and in the Second Class, Masters Jos. Courtney and H. Snee.
—The 23rd regular meeting of the Holy Guardian’Angels of the Sanctuary was held on Sunday, April 13th. Servers were appointed for next Sunday. The subject for the five-minute instruction was an “ Explanation of the different ceremonies of Holy Week.
—A meeting of the Star Baseball Club was held on April 13th. Mr. Dempsey was elected Captain. The following are the positions in the field: Brice, c.; Dempsey, p.; Collins, s. s.; McGee, 1st b.; Calkins, 2d b.; McEniry, 3d b.; Krost, 1. f.; Scheiber, c. f.; Buchanan, r. f.
—A very pleasant impromptu soiree took place in the College parlor on Monday evening last, at which the visitors then at Notre Dame assisted. Several fine pieces were executed on the piano by some of the lady visitors, and also by Geo. G. Cochrane of the Senior Department.
—The fifty-dollar gold key for the tabernacle of the altar in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame, Indiana, has been received, and was used for the first time on Easter Sunday. This key is the gift of Mrs. George Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Indiana, who has already made several donations to the new church.


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
527

/ —At the meeting of the Philodemics, held on Tuesday evening last, a very lively debate took place, the subject being, “Should the Judge be elected by the People?” Messrs. McCue and Dougherty were on the affirmative, and Messrs. Murphy and Shugrue on the negative. _ Mr. R. Russell lead an able criticism on the preceding meeting.
—The following, clipped from the local columns of the Laporte Argus, April 10th, is commended to the special attention of the editor of the South Bend Register and others:
“Edith O’Gorman didn’t create a ripple of excitement in this city. Our people had heard too much about her to take much interest in her stories, and she did not enrich herself much by coming here.”
—The 12th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Tuesday, April Sth. Some remarks were made by the President concerning the play to be given by the Society sometime next month. Masters A. Rheinboldt, N. Nelson, J. Garrity, H. Snee, J. Courtney, W. Coghlin, A. Coghlin, and A. Campau delivered declamations.
—The following are the crews selected for the June boatrace : Hiawatha—M. J. McCue, captain and stroke; M. J. McEniry, 2d; J. P. Hagan, 3d; W. H. Arnold, 4th; F. De-voto, 5th; Ed Maley, bow; J. P. Kinney, coxswain. Minnehaha—J. J. Coleman, stroke; Ed Dempsey, captain and 2d; Ed Calkins, 3d; W. McGee, 4th; W. Murphy, 5th; A. M. Keenan, bow; A. J. Hertzog, coxswain.
-—Rev. Father Kelly, of Notre Dame, officiated at St. Peter’s Church on Sunday. He delivered a sermon on “The Resurrection,” which is said, by those who heard it, to have been an unusually able effort. At three p. m., Rev. Father Sullivan delivered a discourse on “The Guardian Angels.” A beautiful banner was blessed on the same occasion for the Holy Angels’ Society, an organization composed of little children.—Laporte Chronicle (April 16).
—The ceremonies were carried out in grand style at Notre Dame on Easter Sunday. At 10’clock Solemn High /Mass was celebrated, Very Rev. Father General being celebrant, Very Rev. Father Granger deacon, and Rev. L. J. L'Etourneau subdeacon. The grand gold vestments, copes, etc., were used on that dav, and presented a sight simply magnificent. Rev. T. E .Walsh delivered an excellent sermon.
—The thirty-second regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association took place on Friday, the 11th inst. At this meeting essays were read by Masters F. W. Bloom, J. Kurz, G. Donnelly, E. Murphy, and G. Schnull. Declamations were delivered by Masters T. F. McGrath, K. Scanlan, J. G. Brady, M. J. Burns, J. Mug, G. Orr and A. F. Zahm. A Moot Court and probably a public debate will take place soon.
—The 11th regular meeting of the St. Edward Literary Club was held on Wednesday, April 16th. The debate of the evening was, “Should the study of the liberal arts be fostered by mechanics ? ” Those who took part in the debate were: P. Donohoe and W. Healy on the affirmative, and J. Fenner and A. Spangler on the negative. The question was decided in favor of the affirmative. Some of the remarks of Mr. A. Spangler caused a great deal of merriment and laughter.
—The thirty-first regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association was held on Saturday, April 12th. Masters F. C. Scheid and C. F. Perry were admitted to membership. The following displayed their vocal powers: M. L. Foote, F. X. Campau, J. W. Guthrie, and W. D., Cannon. Selections were given by the.following young gentleman: P. G. Crowley, G. Castanedo, V. Cable, L. D. Dimick, E. G. Sugg, R. French, C. Van Mourick, A. Mergen-theim, J. Seeger, J. Scanlan, H. Devitt, J. Devitt, H. Fenner, 0. Farrelly, J. Halle, J. Kennedy, A. S. Manning, P. Perley, C. Rietz, R. Pleins, J. Schoby, J. O'Donnell, J. Morgan and F. Becker.
—The Minims take this means of returning thanks to Prof, and Mrs. Howard for the pleasant time spent at their , residence, Lowell Heights, on Wednesday last. That being the birthday anniversary of their classmate, Master Edward Howard (to whom the Minims, their Prefect and teachers wish many happy returns) the Minim department boys were invited to spend the afternoon with him.. They honored the invitation, of course, and enjoyed themselves
only as Minims can, making themselves perfectly at home with their kind host and hostess. A tempting luncheon was part of the programme, and it is needless to say that boys of their age enjoyed it and did it ample justice. The afternoon was agreeably spent in various out-door games and pastimes on the grounds. Altogether the Minims say they had a most delightful afternoon.
—A certain Miss Edith O’Gorman, calling herself an escaped nun, lectured here twice last week. The fact that she had only small audiences speaks well for the intelligence of our citizens, who evidently do not believe in countenancing such efforts as hers—do not approve of her abuse and calumny. While a person may or may not care about religious orders as the case may be, still no candid individual can refuse these organizations their just dues as performing a great deal of good in the world, and giving their lives for what they consider the service of God. We know, whether we patronize their schools or not, that, wherever you find these institutions, they are bee hives of industry, and it is well known that crime and industry are mortal enemies. The Sisters that Miss O’Gorman abuses so shamefully never rush into print to defend themselves, but prefer to let their deeds proclaim their praise; and yet they do not desire even that. They labor not for praise, but when poor humanity suffers, either on the battle-field or in the hospital, those ministering angels are present, frequently sacrificing their lives that others may live. Many a poor Union soldier alive to-day, the comfort and support of wife, sister or mother, owes his life to their tender care, as thousands of brave men are willing to bear witness. And this is the class of women Miss Edith so severely criticises. The yellow fever hospital of New Orleans, Granada, Vicksburg, and the other plague-stricken districts in the South last summer are too fresh in the memory of those that were witnesses, or read of the devotion and heroism of the Sisters of Charity, who, when even brave men quailed before the awful scourge of the yellow plague, remained at their posts, doing their duty, many offering up their lives. Deeds like those live.—Laporte Weekly Chronicle.
—Latin plays are not so common in American universities that we can afford to let the presentation of such a play at Notre Dame pass unchronicled. In continental colleges such entertainments are not nearly so rare as in this country. They are only possible where great use is made of Latin in conversation in and out of the recitation room, a matter too much neglected in many institutions. A few evenings since the Senior Latin Class at Notre Dame surprised the faculty and their fellow-students, who had been invited to attend an Exhibition, by the presentation of a Latin plav_en titled “The Captives,” by Plautus. The programme promised “ a play especially adapted to the occasion, and now for the first time presented on the American stage.” The opening of the prologue with the words “ Hos quos videtis stare jiic capticos duos," etc., was the first clear indication of what was coming. The following are the young gentlemen who took part in the play: “Ergasilus Parasitus,” F. Devoto, of Ogden, U. T.; “ Hegio,” A. Hertzog, of Natchitoches, La.; “ Lorarius,” J. B. McGrath, of New York city; “Philocrates Captivus”and “Tyndarus Captivus,” by J. P. Quinn and J. J. Quinn respectively, of Tolona, Ill.; “ Aristophontes Captivus,” L. Evers, of Sing Sing, N. Y.; “ Puer,” R. Russell, of Oshkosh, Wis. The surprise of the audience on learning that the play was to be in Latin was greatly augmented when they saw how correctly each one conceived his part, and how naturally and spiritedly he rendered it. All seemed to enter into the spirit of the old Latin dramatist with the same facility as if he had written in English, and all had so thoroughly mastered their parts that there was not the slightest break in the performance from the beginning to the end. The pronunciation was correct and the articulation clear and distinct. Among those present at the play were Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross; Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Provincial, and Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., President of the University. At the conclusion of the Entertainment the Very Rev. Father General made the closing remarks— also in Latin. He congratulated the young gentlemen who took part on their proficiency in the Latin tongue, and on the ability which they displayed in the conception and rendition of their respective parts, and thanked them

528	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
heartily for the great pleasure they had afforded him. All then retired delighted with what was one of the most interesting, as it was one of the most novel Entertainments of the year.—Chicago Evening Journal.
Haiti. of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, J. F. Arentz, M. W. Bannon, M. H. Bannon, A J. Burger, J. B. Berteling, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, Thos. Barrett, G. P. Cassidy, Wm. Connolly, B. J. Claggett, Geo. Cochrane, E. Dempsey, J. Downey, F. Devoto, L. J. Evers, J. R. English, J. Eberhart, A. J. Hertzog, J. P. Hagan, M. J. Hogan, C. W. Hickerson, P. Horn, J. P. Kinney, P. B. Larkin, A A Lent, W. J. Murphy, C. F. Mueller,,R. P. Mayer, E. J. Maley, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, J. J. McErlain, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, Wm. Ryan, 8. T. Spalding, J. Spalding, J. J. Shugrue, T. W. Simms, Geo. Sugg, T. S. Summers, A Scheiber, P. Shea, J. S. Smith, F. C. Smith, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, W. Wilson, F. X. Wall.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
. J. F. Brown, M. J. Burns, J. M. Boose, Frank Becker, B. A. Casey, G. C. Casey, F. C. Castanedo, A. A Caren, T. F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, J. V. Cable, F. X. Campau, G. H. Donnelly, T. F. Devitt, J. W. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, M. L. Foote, G. C. Foster, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, H. G. Guynn, J. L. Halle, J. B. Inderrieden, J. Kuiz, Jas. Kennedy, L. D. Keis, J. A Lumley, W. A. Lentner, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A 8. Manning, J. F. Mug, J. N. Osher, G. A. Orr, F. B. Phillips, A. P. Perley, A. Rietz, Wm. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, D. R. Reidy, A. 8. Rock, J. M. Scanlan, J. A Seeger, G. A Schnull, E. G. Sugg, C.-P. Smith, J. K Schoby, R. J. Semmes, C. P. Van Mourick, F. E. Weisert, A F. Zahm, F. Zeis.
minim: department.
J. J. Gordon, J. M. Courtney, C. M. Crowe, C. L. Garrick, C. H. McGrath, J. 8. McGrath, C. M. Long, H. C. Snee, W. S. Cogh-lin, G. Woodson, A. C. Hierb, F. Mattis, W. F. Rea, A. H. Chir-hart, H. A Kitz, E. A Howard, C. J. Welty, A. F. Schmuckle, T. McGrath, F. K. Parsons, F. B. Farrelly, A. Van Mourick, L C. Williams, W. V. O’Malley, J. S. Chaves, P. Campau, C. J. Young, A R. Rheinboldt, A J. Campau, G. J. Rhodius.

—Easter Monday was a day of general recreation. The pupils enjoyed a long walk.
—During Holy Week the Catholic pupils made their annual retreat. The spiritual exercises were conducted by Very Rev. Father Corby, and closed on Easter morning, when all received Holy Communion. The non-Catholic pupils had class as usual during the week.
—Very Rev. Father General kindly brought with him for our inspection the elegant gold key presented by Mrs. G. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Ind., for the door of the grand tabernacle on the altar of the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame. The workmanship and design are chastely beautiful, and the broad ribbon pendant, on which is woven the Face of our Saviour, is of mosaic pattern suited to the adornments of the altar. May God bless the donor 1
—Visitors during the week: Mrs. Arlington and daughter, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Moore, Plymouth, Ind.; Mrs. Byerly, Mrs. Shirland, Mrs. Fox, Miss Tong, South Bend; Mr. W. C. Aifford, Lewiston, Ill.; Mrs. Billegmann, Chicago; Mr. H. N. Walker, Indianapolis; Miss H. Glasser, Michigan City; Mr. Fisk, Chicago; Mr. A. Henquenet, Hope, Kansas; Mr. CarrSre, Baltimore, Md.; Mrs. M. Jones, Ada, Mich.; Mrs. Van Namee, Elkhart, Ind.; Mr. John Keena, Ada, Mich.; Mr. A. D. Tourtillotte, Toledo, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Banks, Cassopolis, Mich.; Mrs. J. Kennedy, Cincinnati, Ohio.	'
—The ceremonies of Holy Week and services of the
Church were carried out by Rev. Father Shortis. On Maundy Thursday the spacious repository was brilliant with lights, tasteful in decorations, and fragrant with choice flowers; but what was of most importance was the constant incense of prayer which the whole day ascended from the adorers, in communion with the millions of faithful throughout the world. On Good Friday all the surroundings were in keeping with the great Mystery commemorated. On Easter Sunday High Mass was celebrated by Rev. Father Shortis. Very Rev. Father Corby preached on the glorious Resurrection of Jesus Christ, the triumphant establishment of His kingdom, the Church, which has remained secure through all ages, resting upon and believing in the Word made Flesh, and His promise to be always with her.
Ron of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
honorably mentioned in the
Graduating Class—Miss Ida Fisk.
1st 8b. Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Anna Woodin, Mary Birch, Sarah Hambleton.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Grace Glasser, Annie Cavenor, Harriet Buck, Emma Shaw.
3d Sb. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Adelaide Geiser, Ellena Thomas, Martha Wagoner, Pauline Hills, Catharine Hoad-ley.
1st Pbepabatoby Class—Misses Julia Barnes, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelie, Kathleen Wells, Caroline Gall, Della McKerlie, Ollie Williams, Mary Taggart, Linda Fox.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn, Charlotte Van Namee, Edith Botsford, Ida Torrent, Mabel D. Hamilton.
Juniob Prep.—Misses Julia Wells, Matilda Kildaire.
1st Jr.—Misses Jessie Pampel, Minnie Fisk.
2d Jb.—Miss Isabella Scott.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONOBABLY MENTIONED.
Misses Silverthorn, Buck, H. Rosing, E. Lange, C. Hoadley, M. Taggart, C. Gall, K. Wells, E. Shaw, C. Martin, E. Botsford, M. Pampel, Annie Woodin, M. Hamilton, A Cavenor, I. Torrent, D. McKerlie, C. Van Namee, L. French, M. Kildaire, M. Birch, L. Fox, E. Thomas, E. Schwass, P. Hills, L. Wells, G. Glasser, J. Barnes, M. Tam, E. Fisk.
Habmony—Miss Silverthorn.
VOCAL DEPABTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Adelaide Geiser, Alice Farrell, Aurelia Mulhall.
4th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Mary McGrath, Emma Shaw, Zod Papin, Anna McGrath, Mary Birch, Angela Ewing, Harriet Buck.
5th Class—Misses Sarah Purdy, Della McKerlie, lorantha Semmes, Mary Plattenburg, Ella Cavanagh, Ina Capelie, Katie Martin, Laura French, Martha Wagoner, Anna Loescher.
ART DEPARTMENT.
.	DBAWING.
HONOBABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3d Class—Misses Mary Sullivan, lorantha Semmes, Julia Butts, Minna Loeber, Catharine Campbell, Angela Ewing, Mary English, Mary Taggart, Sarah Purdy, Maud Casey, Sophie Papin, Ellen Mulligan.
.	PAINTING IN WATEB-COLOBS.
1st Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
2d Class—Misses Marie Plattenburg, Hope Russell, Teresa Killelca, Angela Dillon, Ellena Thomas, Laura French.
3d Class—Miss Elizabeth Schwass.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Emma Lange, Elizabeth Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Sarah Hambleton, Harriet Buck.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOB DEPABTMENT.
Misses Ollie Williams, Martha Pampel, Ina Capelie, Minnie Loeber, Martha Wagoner, Julia Barnes, Mabel Hamilton.
JUNIOB DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sophie Papin, Laura French, Annie McGrath, Charlotte Van Namee, Linda Fox, Julia Wells, Mary Garrity, Catharine Campbell, Ella Mulligan, Mary McFadden, Maud Casey, Ellen Lloyd, Mary Lyons, Mary Chirhart, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Blanche Garrity, Ada Clarke, Bridget Haney, Teresa Haney, Mannelita Chaves, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Julia
&
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
529
Cleary,’ Maggie Ivers, Elise Lavoie, Jessie Pampel, Mary Feehan, Mary Paquette,;Catharine Claffey, Isabella Scott, Isabella Hackett, Matilda Kildaire, Lilly Lancaster, Angela Watson, Minnie Cox.	'
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct’ deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Louisa Kelly, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Maloney, Teresa Killelea, Zod Papin, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Casey, Emma Lange, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Catharine Lloyd, Catharine-Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Annie Cavenor,. Harriet Buck, Elizabeth Kirchner, lorantha Semmes, Mary Usselman, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Adella Geiser, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Annie Jones, Ellen Thomas, Agnes Joyce, Louisa Neu, Josephine Mitchell, Martha Wavoner, Catharine Hoadley, Mary Mullen, Minnie Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Mary EngUsh, Mary Fitzgerald, Anna Hermann, Della McKeriie, Ollie Williams, Martha Pampel, Catharine Martin, Mary Taggart, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Mary Hake, Mabel D. Hamilton, Ida Torrent, Ellen Kinzie, Bridget Kelly, Sarah Purdy, Ella Cavanagh, Henrietta Botsford, Annie Loescher, par excellence.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Mary Mulligan, Ellen Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Linda Fox, Laura French, Agnes McKinnis, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Orr, Catharine Campbell, Julia Butts, Mary McFadden, Ellen Hackett, Lilly Lancaster, Annie Leydon, Mary Cox, Julia Wells, Mary Lyons, Elise Dallas, Maud Casey, Ellen Lloyd, Marie MeN. Garrity, Sophie Papin, Elise Papin, Elise Lavoie, Mary Paquette, Mary Chirhart, Sabina Semmes, Matilda Kildaire, Angela Watson, Celestine Lemontey, Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel, Julia Cleary, Minnie Fisk, Elizabeth Consadine, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, . Martha Zimmerman, Jane McGrath, Isabella Scott, Isabella Hackett, Manuelita Chaves, par excellence.
University of Notre Dame,
Founded 1842*	Chartered 1844.
----- _ gjaastw*
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, an fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad.- The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Bev. W. Corby, C.S.C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOTTS/WAL
^trofed to th e onor of the leased irfl in.
(20 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Same, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LATE HOLY FATHER, PIUS IX, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO HU
And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Some of the best Catholic writers at home and abroad contributors to the pages of the Ave Maria, among whom may be mentioned Rev. Fathers Lambing and Adams, and others of the Rev. and Rt. Rev. Clergy; Henri Lasserre, Lady Georgiana Fullerton, Aubrev de Vere, the Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars,” Kathleen O’Meara (“Grace Ramsay”), John O’Kane Murray, Maurice F. Egan, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Eliza Allen Starr, the Muses Howe, “Marie,’ ’the Author of “Ty-borne,” and others.
TERMS :
One Year (postage free)............................$ 2 50
Two Years.......................................... 4 50
Six Months......................................... 130
Five Years.........................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and upward, at the rate of §2 each, with 1 free Copy to the one getting up the Club), §20.
Yearly Postage to Europe, 4s. 6d., or §1.04 per copy. Single Subscription and postage to Europe. 12 shillings per annum.
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company
39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
5^" NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
pg* The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditab’y through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.	*
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs.. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Clssical Departments,-14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5: Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, . MOTHER SUPERIOR,	•
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
i *
1
530
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of train b from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	bio .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 am. 310 “ 450 “ 7.00 “ 7,30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,	 Lima,		7.50 a.m. 925 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 350 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 1225 a.m.		
Ft. Wayne,				2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	
Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive				
GOING EAST.
		bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,			9.10 P.M.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	••*••• •
Plvmbnfh			2.46 am.	11.48 “	8.55 “	
Ft. Wayne,					6 55 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
Lima,			8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest. 				10.10 “	5.27 “	233 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	1L45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “	• * • ••••••
Crestline		....Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m	4.15 A.M.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,				12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,....					2.26 u	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester. 				6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m	3.30 “
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 80 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
12 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4. 50and4 pm, Way Freight.	■
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte3 35 am, Chicago 6am.	"
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a m; Chicago 8 20 a m. .
4 50 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago, 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Geirl Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’ISupt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a.m.	8.20 p.m.	Abbive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m	8.05 p.m.
12.55 “ 12.28 “	2.30 “ 2.08 “	- - - - LaPorte, - - -- - - Stillwell, - - -	10.25 “ 10.45 “	8 55 “ 9.20 “
12.07 “	1.44 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.10 “	9.47 “	>i
11.27 p.m.	l.t-7 “	- - - PJymou h, - -	11.47 “	10.33 “
10.31 “	12.10 “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12 40 p.m	1132 “
9 55 “	11.26 a. m.	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.17 “	1212 a.m.
9.25 “	10.47 “	- - - - Peru, - - - -	2 00 “	12 40 “
9.(<3 “	10.26 “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.22 “	1.01 “
8.33 “	9.56 “	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	3 00 “	135 “
7.52 “	9.13 “	- - - - Tipton,- - - -	3.38 “	216 “
7.10 “ 6.10 “	8.30 “ 7.25 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - -	4.25 “ 5.25 “	3 02 “ 4.00 « ■
		- - - -Cincinnati, - - -- - - Louisville, - - -- - Saint Louis, - - -	10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices al the lowest current rates.
F. E. MYEBS, G. P & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
BOYAL NTAIIL. STEAMERS. NEW YOEK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVEBPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OK BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITYOF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. BALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct5-tf La Porte, Indiana.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“ 9.00 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m.
“	“	1110 “	- - -	“	“ 2 55a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
ES^Bertlis §1.2 5. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis. Gen’l. Manager, ludianapolis
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo*, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street. .
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo....3	40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7 30 am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3 40 pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am	9	00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm	9	00 am
Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm	12	30 pm
Joliet Accommodation..................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	- 531
Civil Engieners & Surveyors.
CM- PROCTOR [of ’75], Civil Engineer of City and , County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weeklv Newspapers.
rpiIE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published _L weekly at Columbus, 0. Subscriptions from Notre Dame's students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of '70.
THE A. V AU MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
rpHE BOND HOTTsSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Michigan Central Railway
TimeTable-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. •• Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 « 10 00 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26“ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 2 35 am 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
			♦Jactsou Express.		
	♦Mail	•Day Express.		tPacific Express.	^Evening Express.
			5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 « 7 55 “ 10 30 «		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago....	7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4-30 “- 6 55	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 pm 9 40 “ 12 35 am 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
IN lies and South Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 “	638 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Book Binders.
TWWARD J?. EEYDTN, Plain and Fancy Book-bind-_Tb er, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
QpS CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZlO neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
0g^ CENTS will obtain you a Copy of Tbe Scholastic ZiO At-makac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN at HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER at MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
TTiAJJTiTNGr at HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, At-JJ torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.
JOECPr E. McIIU GEI [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE at DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
Orville t. chamberlain (of ’6i) Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Bid.
McBRIDE at MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WLEIA M J. CL ARKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Room- 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES a.. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOYIN' I>. McCORMICK-of '73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DANIEL B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Special attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Michigan.	sop 14-ly
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE"
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvdt Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
532
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AM) IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
IV. E. Cor. EaSalle & Monroe Sts.
Henby Styles, Managee.	Cliicaao.
122-ly
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, JL3STT) JEWELBY. All Kinds of Engraving Done. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A IMLAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST!
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, and Des Moines, (the capitol of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Des Moines, to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth; between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents; and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points, Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Blinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes, (and the enormous passenger business or this line warranting it.) we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its pat, ack DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of
our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day. 'MagnificentIron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed byjthis line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At CHICAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.	-
At ENGLEWOOD, with the Lake Shore & Michigan SouthernandPittsburg, Ft-Wayne A Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati A St. Louis R. R.
1 At LA Sat.t.E, with Illinois Central R. R.
At PEORIA, with P„ P. A J.; P., L. A D.; L B. A W.; DI. Midland; and T., P. A W. Railroads.
At Rock island, with Western' Union R. R. and , Rock Island A Peoria Railroads.
At Davenport, with the Davenport A NorthWestern R.R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids A Northern B. R.	■ -
' At GRINNELL, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
AtDES MOINES, with D.M. A Ft. Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. r.
At Omaha, with B. A Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus Junction, with Burlington, Cedar Rapids A Northern R. R.	■
At OTTUMWA, with Central R. R. of Iowa: St. Louis, Kan. City A Northern and C.,B. A Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk A N.-W.R.Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St J. A C. B. R. R.
At ATCHISON, with Atchison. Topeka A Santa Fe; Atchison A Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K.P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
S
PALACE CARS are run through to PEOKIA, DES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH:	—	_	_
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Bock Island Boute,** are sold by all
Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada, For information not obtainable at your home ticket olSce, address,
A. KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN.
' Gen’l Superintendent.'	Gen’l Tkt, and Pass’gr Agt.,
______	•	ChicagoZDL