Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper ■vic'tujru.s; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 1, 1879.
Number 9.
Revivnnus!
September 8th, 1879.
BY T. A. DAILEY (’74).
The season waned—the hectic blush Of summer pierced the emerald green, And changed to gold the sylvan sheen, And dyed the fruits with crimson flush.
All nature yields a rich perfume, A glowing incense at the shrine Where Ceres delves the hidden mine And molds to fruit the spring-time bloom.
The-morning sun ne’er lit a scene
More sweetly fair, more grandly sweet,— New Notre Dame uprisen to greet Her thronging friends, with joy serene.
Her portals are flung wide once more,
Her children throng the broad church aisles
—They come o’er many countless miles— She greets them as in days of yore.
A royal welcome she extends, With more of holiday display— The world smiles fair and bright to-day— For recompense with effort blends.
To-day she consecrates to higher
And grander aims her garnished halls— To God she dedicates those walls Once swept away by wasting fire.
Oh, bright arisen Notre Dame!
Thou star of hope upon the sea! Thy happy children turn to thee, Triumphant o’er remorseless flame.
Bigots have hurled their shafts at thee, The fire-fiend scorched thee with his breath, But thou hast triumphed over death— Thy mission is for eternity.
The world has heralded thy fame,
Thy friends have gathered to thy side,
Their zeal and prayers have stemmed the tide, And thou art blest, 0 Notre Dame !
Oh, Notre Dame! thou canst not die. To truth and goodness life is given,— Immortal life on earth—in heaven.
God’s promises can never lie.
Never before was deed so great
Wrought out by men in such brief time;
Thy ashes held a power sublime,
That men have praised from State to State,
Oh, peerless College of the West! Oh, monument of faith and grace! The proudest record of our race— This day beholds thee richly blest.
Man’s Future the Result of his own Actions.
BY GEO. E. CLAKKE.
Truly, it is said, youth is the morning of life. Cares and sorrows are unknown to us then; our future seems as one long spring day; joy, pleasure and happiness fill our Imaginations, and we love to picture to ourselves the many deeds, we purpose to perform after our arrival at manhood’s years. Patiently we await the coming of the time when we shall bid adieu to home and friends, step out into the busy world, and taste the pleasures thereof.
Fortunately, ere the arrival of that longed-for time, passing events give us to understand that joys and sorrows, pleasures and vicissitudes alike, are liable to greet the young mariner on his voyage through life. Forcibly we are drawn to the conclusion, that we have been placed here for an express purpose, and that to each a task has been assigned; each one has a special duty to perform, and in pursuance of the same he must exercise that reason and free will with which he has been endowed by the Creator. The numerous difficulties and obstacles which we see our many friends encountering cause our enchantment to cease, and the scene to change. The newspapers and periodicals of the day devote whole columns to parties seeking employment ; the public prints glare with notices relative to bankruptcies, and, alas! to suicides, which now are becoming but too frequent. Men who yesterday dwelt in brown stone fronts, to-day are penniless. Men bom and raised in luxury, become financially embarrassed, and, after ruining in their mad career those who relied too much on their credit, finish by taking away the life which God had given them. Again, we note professional men having recourse Jo similar means—men who for a time kept above the surface and moved with the rushing current, but who soon gave up all hopes, and speedily sank to the bottom. We read, too, of literary men who have won enviable reputations, and whose productions have been prized by the student and thinker, but who have soon retired from the arena of literary fame and sunk into oblivion.
Accompany me, if you will, through the streets of one of our leading cities. This dwelling on the right is for sale; its owner failed to make ends meet, he failed to pay his notes when due; his creditors showed him no mercy, and he is compelled to part with this homestead and begin life anew. That attractive building on the comer, with closed doors, is about to undergo a sheriff’s sale. Its for
130	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mer owner was once a young man of promising ability. His father bequeathed him this establishment when its reputation was enviable and its credit unlimited; but to-day that once promising youth is not much better than a beggar, and his estate will not cover his debts.
Further on, we view an excited multitude of men and women: the costly structure which they surround is a bank, in which they have regularly deposited their earnings. Here the old story is again told: the bank has failed; its president and officials lived like lords, and to increase their store, indulged in some wild-cat speculation with the deposits.
These are the ordinary events of the day.
But if the world furnishes us so many instances of signal failure on the part of those whose career at first seemed so bright and promising, it presents, on the other hand, just as many examples of young men deprived of home and friends, who have triumphed over every obstacle; youths who, without an ordinary education, afterwards rose to distinction, and retired, leaving the world amazed at the result of their labors; youths who educated themselves and aftewards honored the vocations they had chosen; young men who by their own labor built their future, embarked in mercantile life, accumulated thousands and millions, assisted the distressed, built up the cities in which they lived; and died bequeathing their fortune to charitable purposes and educational institutions; of men whose first occupation was to dig the dirt of the earth, and who afterwards started banks and built palatial mansions, and therein entertained the distinguished men of all nations.
Vanderbilt, the railroad king, and Stewart, the merchant prince, were makers of their vast fortunes. In the legal calling, I might refer to Disraeli, who rose from the common rank—one of that race on which so many affect to look with contempt. He was laughed and sneered at when entering upon his profession, but to-day he is without a rival, and holds the highest office that aristocratic England has in her gift Again, I might' point to another of the same race, Judah P. Benjamin, once one of the 1 eaders of the Southern Confederacy, who by the result of the war was left without a dollar. Rewards were offered for his capture; nevertheless, he made his escape to England. He was certainly not well versed in its laws then, but he despaired not, and began life anew; he applied himself, studied the laws and constitutions of his adopted country, and to-day he is one of the shining lights of the English bar, lives as a noble, and defies those who once offered a prize for his life.
But why cross the Atlantic, when here, in America, we find so many striking examples? To-day, the Union with one voice—unanimously,—by word and by gesture, welcomes the arrival of its hero. Once an apprentice in a tannery, then a cadet at West Point, General, Secretary of War, twice President, he is a third time offered the highest office in the nation. Again, with pride and admiration, I* point to the gallant name of Shields—General in two wars, and Senator from three States. History fails to show many similar careers; a soldier, a scholar, and a statesman, and the responsibilities of each were so well performed that he died without a stain upon his character—in a word, an honest man.
In professional circles, Horace Greely and Charles O’Conor are examples. In fact, nearly all the great men that have left their names on history’s pages, in their youth were thrown on their own'resources, but by seizing those opportunities, and studying the means, they acquired that which- has made them famous. And what does it all teach
us ? Is not history still repeating itself? By the power of the printing-press we are enabled to study the lives of the great ones that have preceded us; and why should not we, ere it is too late, mark out our course, and omit nothing that will be conducive to the attainment of our object?
Men of mercantile life fail because they have either mistaken their calling or neglected the golden opportunities which more than once offered themselves. They either lack the necessary qualifications to achieve success, or they would be better at something else; or they wish to become rich of a sudden, and think there is an easier and surer way of procuring a dollar than by working for it They hear of a Leadville or a Black-Hill,—imagine they will be rich in a week, bid all good-bye, and are off. Others imagine that there is money in the “ puts and calls,” invest in Wall-street stocks, or buy shares in the Louisville or Havana lotteries.
How many young men who are intended by nature to be practical farmers, unfortunately abandon this means of earning an independent livelihood, and rush into the city, never thinking of the vices and sins, the frauds and deceptions, the risks and dangers that are connected with city life. How many more of the educated class, led on by a love of display, marry before they can support themselves, and choose for life-partner one who has ruined her father in trying to keep her in pin-money. She wants to live in a mansion, have adouble team, and servants, visit the watering places, dress in the height of the fashion,”—in a word, she spends two thousand a year, while his salary amounts to nine hundred.
How many times may we attribute mercantile failures to intemperance? How many young men just entering upon their professional career impair their minds by first indulging in the social drink and then frequenting, the gambling hells that infest the larger cities! How many lose all ambition and are content with any employment, when they were designed to shine on the rostrum or at the bar! How many, after receiving a classical training, neglect to fill the positions for which their education eminently fits them! how many in their youth neglect the opportunities afforded them! how many fail to cultivate the high sentiment of honor, the crown of all manly character! how many lack the determination, the will! how many become jacks-of-all-trades and masters of none, have a smattering of a few of the sciences and a thorough knowledge of none! Innumerable are those who, because not born in wealth, make life a failure, and think differently from the noted Sir Humphrey Davy, who once remarked: “I have neither riches nor power nor birth to recommend me, yet if I live I trust I shall not be of less service to mankind and my friends than if I had been born with these advantages.”
Judging from these and the thousand-and-one other instances, whieh we might point out, we may safely conclude that the future lies in our own hands. The education of our moral and intellectual nature is the foundation on’which we should build. With this go honesty, sobriety, a priceless reputation. We should have an aim in life, and having discovered the same, bend all our energies to the task of attaining our object, looking neither to the right nor to the left, but always ahead, and we will thus create our opportunities. “ Life is one grand continuous opportunity, from infancy to our last day ”; we may turn every moment into some treasure; success is at the end of our journey, all depends on our own personal exertion. Perils may beset
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	131
our path, but we should not despair. If you choose an humble station in life, rank at its head; do not content yourself with the second place; put heart and soul into your work; think not those in other vocations are succeeding better than yourself; if you do, you will be surpassed by those behind you, and thus dishonor your choice in life. Whatever you do, be the man,—honorable in all your actions. ‘‘ Act well your part,—there all the honor lies,” is an axiom most worthy of attention, and if you heed it you .will benefit your fellow-man, thereby fulfilling one of the objects for which you were created. People may say you are too late; the walks of life are crowded, there is no room; but heed them not; as Webster said, “There is plenty of room at the top.” We live in a young and growing country; its age dates back but a century; and, with plenty of room, if we do not lack the proper spirit we may predict that success will crown our efforts, and our future will be the result of our own actions.
Schiller.
Frederick von Schiller, who, together with Klopstock and Goethe, occupies the pinnacle of glory in modern German poetry, was born at Marback, in Suabia, in 1759. His father being a soldier, his early education chiefly devolved on his mother, a pious lady. After a preparatory course in Latin, Schiller attended Charles’s school, at the request of Charles, Duke of Wiirtemberg. This school was somewhat like a university, but conducted strictly on the military plan. In the beginning, Schiller turned his attention to the study of law, which, however, he soon changed for that of medicine. At the same time he devoted himself to poetry, which he loved above everything else, studying for his profession no more than was strictly necessary. While f. yet a student at the university, he composed the drama entitled “ The Robbers,’’ a production savoring greatly of the stormy times which immediately preceded the French Revolution. In this drama Schiller gave vent to his youth-A ful enthusiasm. He wrote it in secret, laboring under continual apprehension of being detected by the authorities, and each new scene was read to his companions as soon as completed. This life at the university gave rise in later times to a drama by Laube, entitled “ The Students of Charles’s School.” “ The Robbers,” with its horrible scenes and passionate outbursts, acted like wildfire on the minds of the youth of that time. A series of blood-and-thunder romances was the result. Of course, perfect art was out of the question in a piece based on such frantic wildness. After his departure from the university, Schiller obtained a position as r surgeon in the army. The discipline, however, pleased him so little, that he left Stuttgart in order to live in perfect freedom, no matter under what unfavorable circumstances. He changed his abode several times; was at one time dramatist at Mannheim, then again led a private life at Dresden and Weimar, until finally he was appointed professor, of history at Jena in 1789. His marriage with a < truly virtuous woman, Charlotte von Langanfeld, provided his restless life with a permanent mainstay. A severe disease of the chest, the result of close study, secretly undermined his constitution. He now occupied himself * exclusively with historical studies and with the philosophy of Kant, the author of Objective Skepticism. In the latter part of his. life he left Jena for Weimar, where he .died on
/ the 9th of May, 1805.
The brilliant success which attended “The Robbers” encouraged Schiller to devote himself principally to the drama. He wrote “ The Conspiracy of Fiesco ” and “Love and Intrigue,’! both tragedies. The first is based on a most fiery admiration of freedom, whilst in the second, deception and false friendship are well portrayed. Even in “Don Carlos,” signs of that ungovernable titan-like spirit, which so characterized Schiller in his youth, can easily be traced.
With the four above mentioned dramas, the stormy revolutionary period in the life of Schiller came to a close. His acquaintance with Goethe guided him into a quieter path. The study of history which he pursued at Jena, assisted greatly in diverting him from his youthful faults and dreams. The fruits of his historical labors were: “The History of the Revolt of the Netherlands” and “ The History of the Thirty Years’ War.” Both are noted more for brilliancy of language than for impartial and thorough research. During his intercourse with Goethe, the poetry of Schiller rapidly advanced to perfection. The following magnificent ballads, composed at that time, give ample testimony of the fact. “The Cranes of Ibycus,” “The Diver,” “The Glove,” “The Struggle with the Dragon,” and “The Court of Hapsburg.” Above all, however, his great historical and national drama—“Wallenstein”—consisting of three parts: “The Camp of Wallenstein,” “The Piccolomini,” and “Death of Wallenstein,” give evidence of the strength and fertility of his poetical genius. This trilogy can truly be said to be the greatest artistical achievement of Schiller. The subject was one which well suited the spirit of the age; and what chiefly adds to the interest of the work is the close comparison between Wallenstein and Napoleon. The drama holds up, as it were, before the eyes of the latter a prophetic mirror in the tragical end of the former. Such a masterpiece was well calculated to supplant on the stage those illiberal and ephemeral family scenes produced by Iffland and Kotzebue. Schiller, as a lyric poet, now appears endued with fresh creative power. Some of his most touching and thoughtful poetical productions are: “The Artists,” “ The Ideals,” “ The Walk,” “ The Power of Song,” and “The Honor of Woman.” Above all others, however, his far-famed “Song of the Bell” is a beautiful picture of humanity, and of endurance and suffering.
In 1800, Schiller departed for Weimar, to devote his powers, now much enfeebled, however, in concert with Goethe, to the drama. Soon after appeared “ Mary Stuart ” and the “Maid of Orleans,”—better adapted to the stage than “ Wallenstein,” it is true, but less perfect as works of art The characters in “ Mary Stuart ” appear too much influenced by personal motives, and the “Maidof Orleans”.haa more the form of an epic than of a dramatic composition. Schiller placed himself on Catholic ground in both dramas, which warped the judgment of some of his prejudiced critics, and caused them to overlook or depreciate their real beauties, and to exaggerate their defects. In the “ Bride of Messina,” Schiller labored to unite the romantic with the antique. This beautiful production was, however, severely criticised, because the plot is too subtle and complicated, and because the carelessness in mixing the most diverse religious views is unsatisfactory and unnatural. The last and most admired drama of Schiller was “William Tell.” The same, admiration and love of freedom appears in it which, characterized “Fiesco” and “Don Carlos.” It is no longer, however, a wild and ungovernable
132
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
passion, but an enlightened, and. at the same time ardent patriotism. “William Tell” is perhaps open to some objections, but the dramatic force of the whole is so powerful, and the effect of certain passages, the oath at Ruth especially, so grand and enthusiastic, that millions of minds have drawn the noblest inspirations from it. Besides these works, Schiller also translated the “ Iphigenia in Aulis ” of Euripides, Racine’s “ Phaedra ” and Shaks-peare’s “ Macbeth.”
In many respects, Schiller’s character differs from that of Goethe. The latter attached himself more to the real and external form, whilst the former studied -the interior and hidden springs of action. The latter grasped things as they clearly and naturally present themselves; the former buried himself in a world of dreams and self-created ideals. The influence of Goethe helped to quiet the feverish mind of Schiller and to supply him with a greater love of reality. The brilliancy of his language, rhetorical, and poetical at the same time, is not one of the least merits of the works of Schiller. If, however, an unprejudiced criticism is required of the partially perverted efforts of his youth, mention should be made not only of his doubts, his infidelity, and his wild dreams of freedom, but likewise of his high moral earnestness, honest endeavors, and his continual struggle in favor of truth. In his Christian and idealistic view of the world, he sought Christianity only and exclusively in the sphere of moral freedom, for which art, as he imagined, should prepare and educate man. Schiller, moreover, is often called the German Shakspeare, and Englishmen need not fear that the glory of Shakspeare is in any way lessened by such a comparison. His “Robbers” may well compare with “Macbeth ” or “Richard III,” and his “Intrigue and Love ’’ and the “ Conspiracy of Fiesco ” with “ Romeo and Juliet” and “Othello,” respectively.
It must be admitted that some situations in Schiller are exaggerated and unnatural, but this may be accounted for by the age in which he lived—during the stormy days of the Revolution, when France was ruled by Robespierre and Marat, and consternation was spread throughout Europe,—at a time when Reason was adored by many as the only divinity. And it is well known that authors and poets especially reproduce in their works the opinions of the age. It is quite apparent that in his later works he became convinced of the folly of the ideas which he so wildly advocated in his youth—namely, that equality, absolute freedom, and fraternity can be established by law.
Although Schiller did not follow Christian principles strictly, he at least proved in his works that he was convinced of their truth. As a poet, Schiller must undoubtedly be placed in the first rank, and as long as the German language is spoken his great genius will find admirers.
J. B. B.
—There is food for thought in the story that is told of a young lad, who for the first time accompanied his father to a public dinner. The waiter asked him-. “What will you take to drink?” Hesitating for a moment, he replied: “I’ll take what father takes.” The answer reached his father’s ear, and instantly the full responsibility of his position flashed upon him. In a moment his decision was made; and in tones tremulous with emotion, and, to the astonishment of those who knew him, he said, “Waiter, I’ll take water.”
The American Catholic Quarterly Be view.
Agreeably to our promise of last week, we have again taken up this excellent periodical, and have begun the pleas- , ? ing task of a more careful study of each article it contains. The laborious compendium of facts andjigures given us by the veteran historian of Catholic America—J. G. Shea—is especially interesting to us, for the Coquillards, Marantettes, u Campeaus, Menards, Chandonnets, Rivards, Riopelles, Archambeaus, and others too numerous to mention, whose names adorn our present and past lists of students, are all . ' evidences of the intense vitality of the Canadian element in the United States. We were not quite prepared for all that is implied, however, in the following quotation: “Canadian priests, trained as many of our own priests v have been for years in the Grand Seminaire founded at	f
Quebec by Laval, or at Montreal by the sons of Olier, are	j
laboring among their countrymen in various parts of the	4
United States. They have schools and academies directed by communities, filiations of Canadian bodies, or connected with them. The Clercs de St. Viateur have a
College at Bourbonnais; the Jesuits in the State of New 4 »> York; the Priests of the Holy Cross in Indiana.” Allow us to inform Dr. Shea that much as we respect those representatives of the Canadian element, whose presence, both as teachers and pupils, has been welcomed here, our in- ' stitution is not specially devoted to any of the numerous elements that form the vast and firmly united concrete of American Catholicity.
“ Modern and Ancient Philosophy Compared,” by Rev.
J. Ming, S. J., yield both to the mediaeval. Those who 4 like to read about the dubium Cartesianum, the transcend-	|
ent and the unknowable—of the identity of the subject	।
thinking and the object thought of—of the ego which sets the non ego in opposition to itself, and many other beauti-	T
ful things, had better read this article.	1
The life of the great Christian philanthropist, Jean Baptiste de la Salle, is well written by M. O’R. All that the Christian Brothers have done for two hundred years, since their foundation in 1631, is in a large sense due to the la-	'
bors and sacrifices of this admirable man, and the work of this widespread Order is evidenced by the testimony of x such statesmen as Guizot and Thiers, and others whom no one suspects of partiality to Religious Orders.
The article of Rev. J. M. Degni, S. J., on “ Recent Prog-	j
ress in Stellar Physics,” is a very interesting recapitula-	1
tion of the facts taught by spectroscopic examination in regard to the fixed stars, sun spots, nebulse, etc. He is a little careless in some places, as in his classification of the	>
stars by their spectra, where he alludes to Alpha Lyra * and Vega as if they were different stars, and puts Rigel, one of the reddest of the red, in the category of “those which shine with white or bluish-white light.’’ Nor can we accept Arcturus, Pollux, and Aldebaran as of a “ yellow ” tint—not if Capella and Procyon are yellow too. But his worst slip is where he says: “To the third type belong	,
about one hundred stars of the first and second magnitudes." Now, considering that the total number of stars of the two	(
magnitudes mentioned does not exceed seventy-five, and and that he has already claimed several of these for his V previous types, it is difficult to understand what he means. * We do not mean to disparage the value of this article as a whole. One of its chief merits is in its presentation of so much information in a small compass.	■> y
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
133
So much hag been written concerning the “Mormons ” that we must not expect anything very new in General Gibbon’s article—which is interesting, however, as being a sketch of his own personal experience.
Far higher is the interest which attaches to “The Internal Condition of Russia,” by A de G. Frightful, indeed, is the picture he draws of the deep-seated corruption, festering and rankling for ages in the bosom of the giant whose exterior manifestations of power have been so long the admiration of the nations. The usurpation of religious supremacy by the Czar, the degrading system of espionage perfected under Catharine II, the lowering of the moral standard consequent on the example set by her and other czarinas, the venality and corruption among Russian office-holders, exceeding the notorious and proverbial depravity of Turkish officials, the intolerable tyranny and exactions under which the peasantry and lower orders drag out their existence, are all delineated here with a masterly hand, and convince us more than ever that the true strength of a nation is founded rather in liberty than in despotism. But we cannot agree with A. de G. that “ the people of the United States are idolatrous worshippers of material power.” Power of every species is a manifestation of Divinity, as far as it is power. But when exhibited by secondary causes and perverted to unworthy ends, it will find no worshippers among the enlightened of any nation.
The article on “ Cardinal Pole,” from the pen of Rev. M. J. McLaughlin, is written chiefly to reply to the aspersions of Dr. Hook, cast upon this eminent historical character in his “Lives of the Archbishops of Canterbury.” The work is ably done. Cardinal Pole lived in a difficult age, beset on all sides by errors in religion, errors in policy, errors in practice. Few would have adhered to the truth as firmly as he. Read Father McLaughlin’s article—it is the best in the Review.
Another philosophic article on the Encyclical, from Very Rev. James A. Corcoran, D. D., vindicates the Jesuits from the absurd charge of being opposed to the Thomist system,—and St. Thomas himself from the charges of being “ antiquated, barbarous, unintelligible.” He gives us a clear idea of what the philosophy of Aquinas has done, and is still destined to do, both for the Church and for society. Then follows the Encyclical itself, with an able translation, which is already familiar to our readers.
The American Catholic Quarterly Review is one of the most welcome periodicals that visit our sanctum. It is worthy of its name, and in saying this, we comprise a lengthy eulogium in a few words.
v
Art, Music and Literature.
—A seminary for the education of Catholic priests was * opened on the 12th of September in St. Petersburg. No ; similar institution has ever before been permitted in the Russian capital.
i	—Ball, the sculptor of the Quincy statue, was absent
>-• from the unveiling, in Boston, though he had come from i Europe to be there. By a blunder, no invitation was sent to him. Bent on some sort of a celebration, he gave a dinner party to a few of his friends.
' <	—The Catholic University of Paris, according to an
official statement, numbers about four hundred students, and ■ there have been this year three hundred and thirty-four ex, aminations in law; one hundred and eighty-nine before the i	mixed jury, and one hundred and forty-five before the State
< jury.
—Harvard’s course in the Chinese language began on the 22d, and will continue daily throughout the year. Undergraduates may take it with the approval of the faculty, as well as outsiders (except women), who will pay a $150 fee. Unmatriculated students, to pursue any elective course, must be twenty-one years of age, and show a certificate of ability to take up the study desired.
—The Tremont House, Boston’s oldest hotel, has just celebrated its semi-centennial, having been first opened to the public in 1829. The corner-stone was laid July 4th, 1828, with much ceremony, and, though now considered rather old-fashioned and gloomy, such an elegant hotel the country had not then seen. When first opened for inspection, twenty thousand persons thronged its parlors for three days.
—The new Papal Nuncio in Paris, Mgr. Wladimir Czacchi, although a Pole by birth, is a thorough Roman by education and connections, in his capacity of nephew and heir of the Princess Odescalchi, in whose palace and family he has spent nearly all his life. He is considered one of the ablest diplomatists at the Vatican, at the same time that he is a man of wide literary culture and attainments. The authorship of the Pontifical letter to the head master of the Catholic University of Lille, “Libertate seholarum Ecclesia gaudet” is generally ascribed to him—a fact which givts some significance to his present appointment In the latter days of the reign of Pius IX he was in charge of the Ecclesiastical Department under the Secretary of State.—N. T. World.
—In spite of the immense amount of money annually expended for the public schools of New York, a largo number of children have to be turned away because there is not room for them in the already over-crowded school buildings. In one ward alone of that city 2,536 children’ are excluded for want of room. It is charged, and upon very strong grounds, that the High Schools and Normal Schools are eating up the funds that should be used for the lower grade schools. So the children of the poor are deprived of a common school education in order that the children of the better-off classes may study ’ologies, and ’onomies, languages, music and drawing, at the public expense. No wonder the press in various parts of the country begins to cry out against such an abuse. .
—This year there were 112 applications for admission to the St. Peters burg Medical College for women. “ Of these,” says the Golos, “66 were Greek Catholics, 40 Hebrews, 3 Lutherans, 2 Roman Catholics, and 1 Armenian. The ladies were subjected to a preliminary examination in arithmetic, algebra, geometry, trigonometry, physics, and the French, Russian, Latin, and German languages. Seventyseven ladies passed a satisfactory examination in all branches—49 of whom were Greek Catholics, 26 Hebrews, 1 Roman Catholic, and 1 Lutheran. Many of them received the highest mark (5) in Latin; all of them the highest in French or German, and not one of them in Russian; in fact, the least satisfactory examination was in the Russian language, the majority being marked 3. The explanation of this strange fact is that in Russian gymnasiums and seminaries particular attention is paid to the foreign languages and the least to their own.
—Mr. Chas. Kent, the well-known poet, biographer, and critic, and also editor of one of the best weekly newspapers of its kind in England, the London Register, has just issued his Polyglot Collection, in honor of His Holiness Pope Leo XIII, entitled “Corona Catholics,” announced some months ago. It sprung out of an epigram previously written by him, in simple and translatable English—“An Epigram after St. Malachy,” or his reputed prophecies—which has already been translated into fifty languages, by some of the most illustrious scholars in Christendom. This last fact is indeed its speciality. There have been many other polyglot collections, but none in so many languages as Mr. Kent’s. They are contributed by the following distinguished scholars: Latin, Count Ferrero; Greek, Professor Paley; Assyrian, Professor Sayce; Zend, Professor Darmesteter; Mandshu, Professor Gabe-lentz; Persian, Professor Mir Aulad Ali; Icelandic, Professor Magmisson; Sanskrit, Professor MaxMilller; Egyptian, Professor Le Page Renouf; Chaldaic, Professor N01-deke; Ethiopic, Professor Dillmann; Romaic, Professor Psaras; Irish, Canon Bourke; Basque, Prince Lucien
134
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Bonaparte. Each of the other thirty-six languages is also represented by an adept. Mr. Kent has received, in addition to these languages, more than thirty-six extra versions; hut it seemed better to give one specimen in fifty languages. Most of the type, as we learned from the correspondent of the Catholic Book News when announcing this unique work, has been cast for the work, as there was no type of many of the languages in England. Even the paper had to be hand-made to suit the types. Mr. Kent lately favored that popular American weekly, the Aw Maria, with a beautiful translation of the “Salw Regina," which we append.
Hail, Heaven’s great Queen, of mercies Mother mild, Our cries lamenting and repenting hear,
Life, Sweetness, Hope of Eve’s forlornest child, Loud weeping in this vale of many a tear.
Wherefore, in pity, advocate benign,
Turn thou on us those meek, compassionate eyes ; ' Grant that thy Jesus, thy womb’s fruit divine,
Life’s exile closed, to raptured sight may rise.
Clement and pious in thy virgin state, Mary, sweet Mother, Maid Immaculate 1
Scientific Notes.
—In February next there will be five Sundays. This fact occurs but three times in a century. Thus after 1880 we shall have to wait until 1920 before the shortest month in the year can again boast of five Sundays.
—The largest block of granite ever quarried in New England has been taken out at Woodbury, Vt. It was 230 feet long, 13 to 18 feet deep, 15 feet wide, weighed 4,080 tons, and required 673 wedges with 50 pounds of powder to start it.
—A 94%-carat diamond, found recently at Mekerk's Bush, in the South African diamond fields, was sold on the spot for $35,000. The same “digger” to whose lot this rare find tell, unearthed about the same time a fine stone of 26 carats, and another of 10^£ carats, besides several smaller gems.
—A sheet of iron, said to be the largest ever turned out in Western Pennsylvania, was rolled Thursday morning at the Union Iron Mills, Carnagie Bros. & Co., on Thirty-third street, Pittsburgh. The plate, which is 30 inches broad, 3 inches thick, 13 feet in length, and weighing 5,000 pounds, was heated by E. Schiller and rolled by John Zimmer. The sheet is one of thirty-six, ordered by the Government for the United States Navy Yard at Chester, Pa.
—The Sisters of the St. Augustine Convent, near New Orleans, have been successful silk growers since the year 1854. Several years ago they carried off two gold medals at the Industrial Exposition, and their cocoons displayed in France compared favorably with the production of that country. There is little doubt that the time will yet come when skilled female labor will be profitably employed in silk culture in many parts of the United States.— Philadelphia Record.
—Michigan University has come into possession of 500 species of fungi collected from various parts of the world by T. De Thuemen. The exchange by which this was brought about was effected through Prof. Harrington, who had also secured previous exchanges with foreign botanists, all of which have been vastly to the interest of the University. As a result of these exchanges the institution now possesses upward of 5,000 species of plants obtained from German collectors, and a large collection from Alaska.
—Experiments in a deep lake near Berlin have shown the practicability of a new and ingenious plan for raising sunken vessels and other heavy objects lost in water. The invention is that of an Austrian engineer, and consists of an uninflated balloon, containing a bottle of sulphuric acid packed in salt, which, when exposed to the action of the acid, generates carbonic acid gas. The balloon is taken under water by a diver and fastened to the object that is to be raised. Then a screw is turned that liberates the acid, gas is formed, the balloon expands and rises, and it is only a question of the size of the balloon, the strength
of the tackle, and the weight of the sunken object, whether it shall be raised or not. The experiments near Berlin were successful.
—There is at present on exhibition in New York a section of an immense tree which has been brought from California. This wonderful specimen of nature’s handiwork was discovered in 1874. It was growing in a grove near Tule River, Tulare County, California, about seventy-five miles from Visalia. Its top had been broken off, probably at some remote period, and when discovered it was still two hundred and forty feet high. The body of the tree where it was broken was twelve feet in diameter, and had two limbs, measuring respectively nine feet and ten feet in diameter. The trunk measured below one hundred and eleven feet. This ancient monarch of the forest is called “ Old Moses,” after a mountain near where it stood. It is supposed to be four thousand eight hundred and forty years old, and it is the largest tree that has ever been discovered. The section on exhibition is seventy-five feet in circumference, and twenty-fiye feet across. It is capable of holding one hundred and fifty people in its interior. The interior, as it is now fitted up, is arranged like a drawing-room. A. carpet has been laid down; there is a piano, sofa, tables, and chairs, with scenes from California hung around, and people move about quite freely.
Books and Periodicals.
—Received, too late for notice this week, “ Emmanuel ; A Book of Eucharistic Verses.” By the Rev. Matthew Russell, S. J. New York: Hickey & Co., publishers, 11 Barclay Street.
—The College Index, from Kalamazoo, College, Michigan, begins its third volume with a new suit of type and makes a creditable appearance. The matter of this number is select; if we may except a number of threadbare jokes yclept “ selections,” of which, however, the Index has perhaps, not too many.
—The Electrotgper is the title of a handsomely printed 16-page quarto paper published by Messrs. Shniedewend & Lee, of Chicago, mainly in the interest of their business as electrotypers and press agents; but also containing some good reading matter on various subjects. We congratulate Messrs. Shniedewend & Lee on being the Chicago agents of the Campbell Printing Press Company, of New York, with whom we ourselves have had pleasant business and social relations for some years, and of whom we can say nothing but in praise.
—An excellent book is the “ The Future of Catholic Peoples, Aii Essay Contrasting Protestant and Catholic Efforts for Civilization,” by the Baron de Haulleville, with preparatory notes bv Cardinal Manning, Cardinal Deschamps, and Pius IX, and an appendix containing notes from various authoritative sources. Hickey & Co., 11 Barclay St., New York, are the publishers. Price, $1.50. Catholics who are not sufficiently versed in matters pertaining to their religion, and non-Catholics who wish to know what Catholicism really is, should read this book.
—Veby Cheap and Readable Novels.—Now that the long evenings have come, there is need in every home oi amusing and instructive books to pass the hours of leisure with profit and pleasure. Unhappily, there is no lack of dangerous reading, which prudent fathers and mothers will exclude from their homes if they wish to preserve them happy and pure. Until The Vatican Lebraey of cheap, amusing and interesting Catholic books was founded, there was a just cause of complaint that Catholic books were too dear. Now, admirable and fascinating, as well as instructive and recreative books, can be had for 25 cents, and some even for 5 and 10 cents. Every Catholic ought to help this good work, for its own sake perhaps, but certainly for the sake of his children. Any one who sends a request for a catalogue to the publishers, Hickey & Co., 11 Barclay street, New York, will receive one by return of post.
—We have read with great interest the first number of The Voice, which has made its appearance among our exchanges. This little monthly, devoted to the culture of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	135
the voice, and especially to the cure of stuttering and J < stammering, though an undertaking comparatively new, is I	receiving encouragement from all sides, and we only hope
J	it may realize the great success which the importance and
i benificence of its mission surely deserves. The October •	number has, among other interesting and valuable matter,
' the following articles:—“UntoldMisery; a Stutterer’s Afflictions, by Rev. D.F.Newton, of Toledo, Ohio; “Reading in Schools—Some of the Defects, and the Right Way,” by Kate 8. Hamlin, of Troy, N. Y.; “ The Cure of Stuttering,” - by Prof. Klencke, of Hanover, Germany; “Encouraging Words,” from Prof. Raymond, of Williams College; “ The Cure of Stammering,” by John Howard, of New York; “Correspondents’ Questions Answered.” The Voice is pub-j lished at Albany, N. Y., at $1 a year. Sample copy, 10 ,	cents.
!	—We are glad to learn that the unprecedented success
of the Katholisches Volksblatt has decided the management
I	to make arrangements, now completed, to increase the
• *'•	dimensions of the paper from eight to sixteen pages. It will
appear, as heretofore, 'neeldy, without extra cuarge to its subscribers. From its very outset the Katholisches Volksblatt was considered one of the largest and best __	edited papers of its kind in the United States. It is the
only Catholic German paper in New York city, and has obtained an extensive advertising patronage. In spite of prejudices and adverse competition, it has rapidly advanced its influence all over the country, and is now substank tially established, with a weekly circulation of about 20,000 copies. Distinguished ecclesiastical dignitaries have endorsed complimentary approbations as to the importance of its mission, and flattering comments have been passed ■ . upon it by the press in view of its high journalistic merit. ~	The address of the Katholisches Volksblatt is P. O. Box
4677, New York.
—The College Journal, from Milton, Wis., begins its third volume in a new suit of type. The Journal looks well to the eye, and contains some passably good articles from a literary point of view. We wish we could say the same of ► them trom a moral standpoint. As, for instance, where the exchange editor says that “ it is the immoral, not irreligious, influence that we would have our schools restrain. A person may be very irreligious,” he continues, “and yet an upright believer in the doctrine of morality. In so far r	as religions trengthens and builds up the moral, beauty
loving element in mankind, we wish it success, and hail its advance with pleasure.” The writer has, evidently, very queer ideas of religion, and the tact that such utterances A come from a college presided over by a “Rev.” makes them the more regrettable. Morality, without a solid religious basis, cannot long maintain its purity, and a religion that does not tend to “strengthen and build up the moral, L	beauty-loving element m mankind ” is unworthy the name.
AU true religion does so; without it the moral beauty disappears, altogether or in part, before the storms of temptation. We have evidence of this almost every day in the divorces, debaucheries and suicides recorded in the daily - fcr	papers. The divorce courts also bear it strong testimony.
’	Proofs have been shown, and are still forthcoming, that
these crimes are owing chiefly to the absence of those religious principles that should have been inculcated in youth. The late Prof. Agassiz, whose testimony can hardly r	be disputed, left it on record that most of the prostitution in
Boston was directly traceable to the godless, irreligious education in the schools. The aosence of lilial obedience is another evil that arises from it. In tact, without religious principles of some sort, man is reduced to the level or the brute, and needs only sufficient provocation to ioilow his animal propensities. There are exceptions, we know, but they are rare, and only exceptions. Can the Journal man deny this? We commend these remarks to Rev. President Whitford, and hope he will endeavor to bend the twigs at Milton in the way they should grow.
—That most remarkable little book, “A Victim of the Falk Laws,” a story of priestly persecution in Germany, < which appeared in an English dress a lew weeks ago, is now being republished in serial form in several ot our American periodicals. The first to take it was, we believe, j	Donahoe's Magazine; next it appeared in the Ave Maria,
and is now beginning in the Ualhotic Union, of Buffalo,
the paper edited by the poet-priest. Father P. J. Cronin. In reviewing this interesting narrative, on its first appearance in England, the London Athenaeum said: “A note prefaced to the volume before us speaks of a German original, and of a French translation of the same. We have been at some trouble to discover these, but we have not succeeded. In the lack of further information we shall incline to the belief that the 1 German original ’ exists only in the mind of the very ingenious Englisnman who, wishing to be thought merely the translator of ‘A Victim of the Falk Laws,' appears to have produced the book from the wealth of his own imagination.” In its next number, however, the Athenaeum, having seen a copy of the original work, hastens to apologize for its suspicions, and adds: “The existence of the German original has certainly been most admirably concealed by the German censorship, which used all posssible endeavors to lead inquirers to fancy that they were on a wild-goose chase. The discretion of the censorship and the success of its exertions form a curious piece of the history of our own times; and the fact that inis discretion should have been used about this book, ‘ A Victim of the Falk Laws,’ makes it obvious that its character or composition, or both, make it of some real danger to the German Government, and therefore of very considerable interest to the student of history. The publisher of the German original is Groope, of Treves.” At the close, the writer says that if the narrative found favor with the public, he might possibly relate more of his adventures, the matter being so abundant that it would fill volumes. It certainly has found favor, outside of Prussia; and although the writer says its only merit is a truthful narration of facts, the captivating style and the really exciting adventures, will commaud lor his books a ready market. “A Victim of the Falk Laws ” is already looked upon as a beautiful writer as well as a hero.
Society Notes.
—The 7th regular meeting of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Oct. 26th. Servers for Saturday, the Feast of All Saints, were appointed.
—The “ Guardian Angels ” received Holy Communion on Friday last, it being the Feast of SL Raphael, the Archangel.
—The Columbians held their regular meeting Tuesday night. Mr. Conlan read an essay, after which Messrs. M. Burns, R. Keenan, T. Simms, 8. Spalding, B. Claggett and R. O’Brien took part in an ex tempore debate. Messrs. Brady, Solon, and Reeve were elected to membership.
—The Columbians are grateful to President Corby for the improvement which he has ordered to be made in their society hall.
—The 7th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Tuesday evening. At this meeting Masters W. Coolbaugh, Frank Garrity, H. Snee, C. Garrick, E. Howard and C. Welty delivered declamations.
—The Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary at their last meeting resolved to keep a lamp burning before the statue ot our Blessed Lady until the safe return of Very Rev. Father General.
—A good story is told in Edinburg about that genial Grecian, Professor Blackie. One day, shortly before the close of the late session, the professor being, through some cause, prevented from lecturing, there was posted on the Greek class-room door a notice to this effect: “Professor Blackie regrets he is unable to-day to meet his classes.” A waggish student, spying this, scraped out the initial letter ot the last word of the sentence, and made it appear as if the professor was regretful at his inability to meet those fair specimens of humanity familiarly known outside the college quadrangle as the “lasses.” But who can joke with Blackie ? The keen-eyed old man, noticing the prank that had been played on him, quietly erased another letter, and left the following to be read by whom it might con* cern: “Professor Blackie regrets he is unable to-day to meet his asses 1”	•
136
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JptluWik
Notre Dame, November 1, 1879.
tion have had only words of praise for the admirable spirit which the students have almost invariably displayed; and the seriousness with which the exercises of the retreat have been carried out is accepted as an assurance that all will go well to the end, and that the year ’79-’8O will be one to be long and favorably remembered in the annals of Notre Dame.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itselt anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and later-ary Gossip ol the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the suceess of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Retreat.
We were very much edified as well as pleased to notice the admirable dispositions with which the students of the different departments entered upon the exercises of the retreat All were, evidently, fully alive to the importance of making it well. A retreat is a brief breathingspell, as it were, a time set apart for serious reflection on truths to the importance of which none can be indifferent. A retreat well made is an epoch in a lifetime, and we trust that the retreat of the past few days will form an epoch in the lives of all the students at Notre Dame. The student lives not on the bread of science alone; in common with all other men. his spiritual nature has wants and longings, which no proficiency in science, however great, can satisfy. It is, therefore, to meet these wants and longings, to contribute to the education of the heart and the developement of the moral nature, that the retreat has become an institution in all Catholic colleges. That much of the success of the scholastic year depends on the manner in which it is made, is a fact which requires no demonstration. “Unless the Lord shall build the house,” says the royal prophet, “ in vain do they labor that build it.” In like manner may it be said that unless the Lord shall bless the labors of the student, in vain are all the labors that he may impose upon himself. It is, therefore, to draw down from above those blessings, without which all the labors of the student are of but little avail, that the retreat has been instituted. A great French Bishop, lately deceased, was accustomed to say that a retreat well made at the opening of a year was an infallible sign that all would go well till the end. A few years ago, he was heard to attribute some of the most gratifying results, won in the cause of religion and morality, to the success of a students’ retreat more than a quarter of a century before at the college of Orleans.
Since the opening of the term, all those who have been in any way connected with the management of the institu-
Decision of Character.
Of all the noble traits of character which, when seen in the boy, foretell a true man in every sense of the word, with all the attending success in life, the one most prominent and most promising is that of decision of character. Not only is it the foundation upon which the entire structure of his moral character must rest, but it is also a quality that is absolutely indispensable to the successful pursuit of any calling or profession. But, the question may be asked—how does this particular virtue, as seen in childhood, outshine all the others in its brilliant predictions of a worthy and successful manhood, and why should its developement, in the formation of the youthful disposition, be nourished and fostered with such extreme care and attention ? The answer is evident. It is because we see, in its possession, the consequent and ready acquisition of all the other noble virtues, regular habits, and sterling qualities that combine to form the excellent character complete. This follows from its very nature, which tells to us that there is in the subject, not only a desire to become, in every respect, a truly good and virtuous man, but also a determined and prompt spirit that scatters all doubt, and is ready to face all danger and suffering in its accomplishment.
We know that by it, and by it alone, he will be able to resist the evil enticements of those who seek to lead him astray; with it we feel that he is safe from their intriguing schemes; he may perchance wander for a brief time from the proper course, but so long as there is decision it cannot last, for he needs but to see to correct his error, replace himself, and then avoid all future occasions of sin or temptation. In a word, then, we know that it will be, as it were, his sheet-anchor, which, by the help and grace of God, will hold him right when all else fails. Well warranted, then, are our hopes, as well as our admiration, for the little boy who, when tempted to run away from school, or perform some other improper action, instead of stopping to scratch his head and consider the matter, or giving forth some undecided “ I don’t know—I guess not,” raises himself right up, sees in a moment that it is wrong, replies in a positive manner, “No, sir! ” or perhaps even “No sir-ee, Bob!" and then turns on his heel and walks off. And no wonder is it that we stop and say to ourselves, “ Ah! there is the material for a man of principle! ” because we see in that noble decision of character which he has displayed, the same moral force which will, if well developed, make him as a young man walk with a quick and determined step past the allurements of the vile saloon or riotous billiard-hall, and scorn the companionship of all who spend their time in idleness and wanton amusements. And further still, when he shall have attained the age of manhood, and assumed its high responsibilities, it, too, will have increased, and reached that degree of strength and perfection in which it becomes a part of his nature, rendering him always prompt and decided in all his transactions, and insuring to him that imperishable crown, obtainable only by those
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	137
who know the right, and knowing, dare pursue. The great < necessity, then, upon the part of youth, of acquiring and cultivating this powerful and auspicious trait of character, and upon the part of those engaged in their education, of implanting and strengthening it in their youthful minds, is readily seen in the vast amount of good that it accomplishes, and by a reflection upon the certain and complete failure of a life pursued without it.
w We remember of having once heard it said, that a man or boy without decision is like a boat whose engine is on a “ dead centre,” and we could not but admire the force of '	the comparison. To those who understand machinery at
all, the dangerous consequences of an engine getting on a “ dead centre ” is apparent, to those who do not, let us explaim
' The “ dead centre ” in an engine is the turning point; , ■*'' and, sometimes, when moving slowly, the crank fails to * swing past this centre, the engine is stopped in this position, and there remains until it is started by some extraneous u force, leaving the boat, of course, during this time, entirely , to the mercy of the winds and waves. This is very apt to .	happen just as the vessel is pulling out from the shore and
;	getting under way; and the consequence is, that should
j>	the current perchance be swift, the wind high, or should
, there be obstacles in the way, the most serious accidents occur; for the chances are, that the vessel itself, as it is carried along the stream, will become in its collisions a wreck, and prove dangerous to other craft. And so it is with the young man whose engine, that is, his moral force, gets on a “dead-centre”; his mind, like the crank, moves slowly, and without sufficient force to carry it over i. that centre ot indecision; he hesitates as to where to go, or ► what to' do, and finally stops, to be started only by some ;	outside assistance; and meanw bile, like the boat, entirely at
the mercy of the winds and waves of temptations and trials that may beset his course, he floats, we may say, “ loafs,” T along down the stream of life, bringing destruction not only to himself, but to all with whom he may come in contact.
A We earnestly hope, then, that our students will take , the example, and improve of this most favorable portion of their life—their school days—to cultivate this quality of decision of character, so excellent and so indispensable L to their success in after years. Learn in your youth to say “No,” with an emphasis to all temptations; to repel all the advances of the evil one with the charge of our Lord—“ Get i	thee behind me, Satan,”—practically and forcibly expressed;
•	that is, by, turning around and walking away, by which alone
you may be sure he is behind you, and to display, in all your actions, a principle, from which you work; and then you 7 may be sure that when you have grown up, and are obliged to encounter more difficult trials, that spirit of decision will have grown with you, and will remain forever in you a power with which there can be no “dead centre,” no *■ indecision, no yielding to temptations.
Personal.
—Carl Otto, ’77, is residing in St. Louis.
—Louis Loser, ’74, can be found at Nashua, Iowa.
—	Rev. Father Stoffel officiated at Laporte last Sunday.
—	Master Frank McGrath, of Chicago, was among the visitors last week.
—	Mr. Reaves, ’69, of Elgin, Ill., called to see President Corby last Sunday.
—	George F. McNulty, ’76, is attending a course of lawlectures in St. Louis.
—	Thos. Solon (Commercial), ’74, is in the book-binding business at Lafayette, Ind.
—	Bro. Paul, C. S. C., of the Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wis., has our thanks for favors received.
—	George Walters (Commercial), ’78, is engaged with his father in the County Clerk’s Office, at Washington, Ind.
—Dr. C. J. Lundy, ’74, has been appointed Professor of clinical ophthalmology, aural surgery, and laryngology, in the medical college lately organized in Detroit, Mich.
—Rev. T. Collins, C. S. C., ’75, was ordained priest by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, at Fort Wayne, on the 24th inst. Monday last, he went to his home in Washington, D. C., where ne offered on Thursday for the first time the Divine Sacrifice or the Mass, in the presence of his parents and friends. During the Mass, he performed the nuptial ceremony for his twin-brother, who was married on the occasion to an estimable young lady of Georgetown.
—The Democratic candidate for the office of County Surveyor is Mr. John F. Wolfe, of Osage [who was a student here in ’74]. Mr. Wolfe is yet a youug man, but his family is well known—his father being one of the oldest residents of the township. Mr. Wolfe was educated at Notre Dame, Ind., where he studied for several years in a carefully selected course. There are few, if any, men in the State with a finer mathematical education than he, and his engineering skill has been ripened by experience in the practical work of the field. He is in every way competent and worthy of the place, and that Democrat will be negligent of his duty who fails to vote for him. If there were no other reason, he should be supported as against an older man—other conditions being equal—from the fact that he is a young man, and the Democratic party of this county sadly needs a strong infusion of younger blood than flows in its veins at present.—La Salle Democrat.
—Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General, started from Notre Dame for New York last night, and on Wednesday will sail for Europe to spend the winter. The trip which he now takes is in place of the one from which he was recalled when the University burned, last spring. Now that his beloved Notre Dame is so nearly rebuilt, the school being again in full blast, he obeys the call which summons him once more across the Atlantic. He will pass the winter mainly in Paris and Rome. Elsewhere in this issue he has a card of thanks to those who have so generously assisted in the rebuilding of Notre Dame. The wish will be universal that he may have a pleasant, restful visit, and a safe return. A reception was given Very Rev. Father Sorin at Notre Dame, this morning, by the Faculty and students, at which the Band played, and a number of appropriate addresses were made. Our informant states that many eyes were wet on parting with the reverened Father, and all hearts prayed that he might again return to be the life and hope of Notre Dame.—Soath-Bend Daily Register, Get. 21th.
Biographies are delightsome reading; we compare all the virtues of the person with our own, and all his failings with our neighbor’s.
—A Sensible Dog.—Here is an anecdote that comes to us all the way from Australia: “ Sixty years ago, when I was a teacher in Kilmalcum parish,” says John Frazer, “I was using whisky bitters for my stomach’s sake. One day I dipped a piece of cracker in it and gave it to the dog. He ate it, curling up his lips to avoid the taste. Ere long he became tipsy; he howled most piteously, and naturally looked up into my face as if for help. He began to stagger and fall like a drunken man. He lay on the floor and howled until the effects of the drink wore oft. This was supreme folly—it was wicked. The dog never forgot the trick. Whenever after I went to the press for the bottles, he hastened outside of the house. One day, the door being-closed, he sprang with one bound through a pane of glass to get outside the room. So much for the wisdom of the dog—infinitely surpassing foolish, drinking men.”
138
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Local Items.
—All Saint’s Day.
—Pass the napkin.
—Shinny on your own side.
—“ Is there a tax on rats ” ?
—Peter Parkley has arrived.
—“ Corn-cobs didn’t save him.”
—Listen to the mocking-birds!
—Is that visitor about sixteen ?
—“That boy is “Nick’s niece.”
—Nutting is all the rage at present.
—“ Jim” is the boss foot-ball kicker.
—“ Mibs ” is all the go in the Minims.
—“ How about those stogys, old boy ” ?
—The Preps have two roses in full bloom.
—Keep away from other people's orchards.
—Have you said the Rosary for the prefects ?
—Joe Spalding is the latest Kentucky recruit.
—“ G. R. U. B.” is very funny, in his own estimation.
—Keep the good resolutions you made during the retreat.
—The boats will soon be placed in winter quarters
—Rettig’s Band serenaded the Philopatrians the other night.
—The Director of Studies continues to visit the classes regularly.	•	-
—The Preps are stowing away hazel and hickory-nuts for winter use.
—Competitions will be held next week in the Commercial Course. *
—The bashlul five, had some elegant cards printed by us a lew days ago.
—The “solid South,” was attacked in the 1st Grammar, Jr., on Saturday last.
—B. Hugh has received from a kind friend at Alton, Ill., a present of two mocking-birds.
—An interesting game of “Two old cat” took place last Wednesday on the Juniors’ campus.
—All the professors and instructors are well satisfied with the progress tneir pupils are making.
—The “Preps” send in more items tor these columns than their larger brothers, the Collegians.
—Mb. Editob:—Will rotunda rhyme with thunder? I am writing a poem on the new College.
Yes; but don't, please. Tne pronunciation most indicative oi culchaw is rotunder and thundah.
—Quite a number of students of both departments took a wait into the country on Sunday afternoon.
—A window fell upon “Dick’s” tail the other night cutting off about hall an inch of that appendage.
—Don’t “give yourself away”—excuse the slang—by taking to yourself that which is not intended for you.
—This is the month especially devoted to the suffering souls in Purgatory. Do not lorget them in your prayers.
—The spiritual retreat, which closed this morning, was one of the most successlul ever preached at Notre Dame.
—There arose a “murmur ’round their camp fire ” on Saturday, when the Minims’ outdoor store was overturned.
—The J uniors relished the cider won from their Senior friends last Wednesday. They say it was the best they । ever lasted.
J	—Rev. Father Condon is a great favorite with all the
J students. The more they are acquainted with him the better they like him.
—Mr. J. B. McGrath’s address to Very Rev. Father General on the occasion of his departure for Europe -is highly spoken of.
—Bro. Marcellinus says that Dick’s tail is not permanently injured by his late mishap. Our K 9 friend now feels as waggish as ever.
—Masters Rhodius, Farrelly, Gordon and Guthrie are the four who serve at the altar for the present. Master J. > Gibbons is censer-bearer.
—The English sparrows imported here two or three J years ago have increased so rapidly that we fear they will ' become a nuisance before long.
—Rev. Father Lilly, who has been sick since last July, requests his friends to pray that he may either recover or be entirely reconciled to the will of God.
—The astronomers took advantage of the beautiful moon light nights of the past week to go “ sky-larking,” as our friend oi the Cleveland Catholic Universe has it.
—The trapeze, rings, etc., are well patronized by the / athletic Freshmen. Why don’t the delicate upper-class V men cultivate their muscle as well as their brain?
—Our Morgan of the Juniors wants the Preps to distinctly understand that he is not the old reliable Johnny Morgan that used to grind the organ. He is an entirely different party.
—“ It is not necessary that this should be a school of / three hundred, or one hundred, or even fifty boys, but it is / necessary that it should be a school of Christian gentle- \J men ”; therefore, two young men were invited to take their departure last Monday.
—There is a rumor to the effect that all those who get notes for disorderly conduct shall have their names mentioned on a special list to be published in this paper, so ’ that their parents or guardians may know why they do not figure on the regular rolls of honor.
—The annual retreat of the students was preached this year by Very Rev. Father Corby. Father Hudson had been appointed, and prepared for the occasion, but owing to an accident he met with, the day before the exercises commenced, he was forced to call on his superior to relieve him.
—On Wednesday last, the fifth anniversary of Father Lemonnier’s death (uot Tuesday, as we said in our last issue), his resting-place was decorated with natural flowers and other tributes of affection. Better still, many of his old Iriends here and at St. Mary’s visited his grave to offer a prayer for the repose of his soul.
—To-day (the Feast of All Saiuts), Missa Regia will be sung, page 33 of the Kyriale. Vespers, page 214. Tomorrow, MisM Parvulorum, page 38. Vespers of the Common of one Martyr, page 40. Vespers of the Dead will be sung belore Benediction. Next Monday, the Commemoration oi All Souls, Missa de Requiem will be sung.
—Mr. Wm. McCann, who is so ably superintending the steam-fitting in the College for Mess rs. Davis & Co., of Chicago, has succeeded in making all his connections this week, and every room in the College building can now be heated at any moment. Mr. McCann thinks the steam-fitting at the Professed House could be ready in a week or two.
—The “ Russians ” and “ Turks ” of the 1st Geography, Prep. Dept., are having a lively contest to see which side shall pay for an oyster supper for the whole class. The contest commenced about two weeks ago, and will V continue until the middle of November. At present the “Russians” have the advantage, having five marks less than their opponents.
—A stitch in time saves Nine. Nine should be capitalized, as the allusion is to the Nine Muses. Stitch should be “ stich ”—a line of poetry. We still use “ hemistich ” for half a line. The meaning of the proverb is, that a line of poetry, composed with due regard to “ time,” or rythm, saves the Nine Muses a great deal of worry, as they are frequently made responsible for'matters over which they have no control.	-
—As the Professor of Mathematics drives up towards the College on these frosty mornings, we are convinced that in his inmost soul he yields ferveut assent to the sentiment or the well-known lines of Saxe:
“ God bless the man that first invented sleep,”
8o Sancho Panza said, and so say I;
“But cursed be he with curses loud and deep
Who first invented and went round prizing That greatest of pests earthly—early rising. ’
•)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
139
i
—Our attention has been called to a certain individual ■whose cognomen is not “Uncle Edward” but whose finger-nails are, to use the common expression, immense. A. friend of ours allows the nail on the small finger of the right hand to grow to a considerable length, and terms it his “ penmanship nail.” This may be excusable, but when a fellow has “penmanship nails” on eight fingers and two thumbs, we ask B. P. in the name of the community at large to exempt that fellow from penmanship. Prep.
—A second spelling-match took place in the First Reading, Prep., last Saturday. This time Capt. Herrick’s side won the day. As some time still remained, it was determined to use it for the purpose of finding out the best orthographer in the class. After a few rounds, all were retired except Masters Boose and A. Goghlin,—two ex-Minims, by the way. The two held the floor for a long time, spelling every word given, until finally the “slicker” came, which “ stuck ” Master Boose, leaving Master Coghlin the hero of the hour.
—We have had the pleasure of handling and examining at leisure a beautiful relic of two of America’s greatest men, Charles Carroll of Carrollton, and Patrick Henry. It is a handsome gold watch, presented to the latter by the former, and now the property of one of the students of Notre Dame, Mr. R. L. Johnson, son of Ex-Governor Johnson of Kentucky. The following inscription is engraved on the back of the watch, inside:
Presented to Hon. Patrick Henry, a Delegate in Congress from the Province of Virginia, by his Friend Chas. Carroll—Annapolis, Md., July 22d, 1773.
—This morning [Monday, Oct. 27th,] at 10 a. m., the .Faculty and students of Notre Dame waited on Very Rev. Father General to wish him a prosperous voyage to his ' own sunny France. Addresses were read by Mr. J. B. McGrath, of the Senior Department, and by Master J. Courtney, of the Minims. Mr. McGrath’s address, written entirely by himself, was a model of pathos and heartfelt sentiment, and was delivered with such inflections of voice as to show that his heart was really in his words. Very Rev. Father General returned thanks, and expressed his entire sutisfac-tion with the conduct of the students now present, and his gratification at seeing them so earnest in spreading the good repute of Notre Dame. Amid music from the Band and loud waits he left lor the train and his journey.—South-Bend Daily Tribune.
—We are receiving the Notre Dame Scholastic, the weekly paper issued from the University of the same name. Among the Roll of Honor—embracing the names of those whose conduct is satisfactory to the .Faculty, we found, last week, the* names of Frank Reeve, Ed. H. Uroarkin, and F. McPhiliips^— Dexter (Hfich.) Leader.
This is but one instance out of many showing how closely the Roll of Honor is watched abroad, and the interest taken in it by parents and Iriends. It is to be hoped those who heretofore have not succeeded in placing their names on the Roll of Honor will make a fresh effort and gratify their parents and guardians in this respect; they are entitled to this consideration on the part of their children or wards. We understand that the Leader is not in regular receipt of our paper. We cannot account for this, as it is mailed regularly from the office here. By the way, we hope all subscribers who do not receive tne Scholastic regularly will send us word at once, that we may look up the affair.
—A Card:—On .he eve of my departure for Europe, I cannot leave without expressing my unleigned thanks to our' generous neighbors and friends ot South Bend for their noble efforts at the moment of the destruction o’f Notre Dame, to save it from ruin, and afterwards to help and hasten its glorious resurrection. Great as our loss and affliction may have been, it has certainly been no ordinary consolation and encouragement to meet in our immediate vicinity a general sympathy that has quickly spread all over the country, revealing every day far, and near, a host of friends hitherto unknown. To each and to all I feel deeply indebted, and although nothing yet is absolutely finished, I carry with me the pleasing assurance that within six months the new Notre Dame will stand a monument in which every benefactor will take a legitimate pride, while
I will delight to point to it, abroad, as to a most gratifying evidence of the American munificence when an object seems to justify their spontaneous liberality. I am going to cross the ocean for the thirty-sixth time, but never did I take the sea with a heart so grateful to God and to man.
Notre Dame, Oct. 25,1879.	E. Sorin.
—Mr. Editor:—An article appeared in your columns last week which hardly deserves an answer; still, a few remarks may not be out of place. Well it is that the writer proclaims his humility at the outset, but it is humility that partakes of the character of Uriah Heep. As for his opinion, unless he had informed us of the fact we would not have considered it possible for him to entertain one. By the assumption of nautical phrases, probably stolen from Oliver Optic, and not correct at that, he would lead us into the opinion that he possesses “ nautical knowledge.” Alas for his vanity! If one would display wisdom, one must have at least common sense to back it, of which he exhibits a most deplorable want He has probably started into life determined to follow the rule—“Every man for himself, and the d--------take the hindmost.” But the advocacy of such principles will hardly do in a Christian community. Yes, the Hiawatha crew did know that grease on the bottom of a boat accelerates motion, or else they would not have objected when they discovered the trick. Truly the assumption of the “fair-play advocate” is ridiculous! Who, pray, appointed him as an expounder of the “ Boat Club ” rules and precedents, and by what right does he set himself up as an umpire in a case of justice of which he manifests so deplorable a want of knowledge? With all the pomp and assurance of a Charles O’Conor he says: “That they need not have offered their boat-to the other crew”; that is true, for it was a useless subterfuge. We are no rival boat clubs, but members of the same organization, governed bj' the same rules, participating in a friendly trial of speed. Hence the reason why the Hiawatha’s crew objected to it as a scurvy trick. The writer of that article may not belong to the Minnehaha crew; but if that be the case, why exhibit so deep an interest, and take such particular pains to vindicate their action ? Surely his is not the manner or language of a disinterested observer.-Justice.
—The “Blues” and “Whites” played a closely contested game offootball last Wednesday. It tookfoiir hours to decide the contest. At o’clock, Frank Grever, captain of the “Reds, appeared on the campus, and was soon followed by the Blues, headed by their captain, Charley Rietz. The choice of position fell to Cnarley’s side, and he took the eastern goal. As the wind was blowing from the west it was quite an advantage. The umpire being agreed upon, and everything in readiness, game was called at 1.40 p. m. The ball was kicked in the direction of the eastern goal, but was neatly stopped, and sent into the right field. Here an exciting race took place for the ball, between two contestants. Just as they were.within a few feet of the ball, little H. Devitt, the smallest member of the Reds, kicked the ball, amid a shout from the spectators. Thus the work went on tor twenty minutes, when the ball was kicked within the goal of the Blues. First bout claimed and allowed for the Blues. After a breathing spell of five minutes the second bout commenced, which lasted twenty-five minutes—the Reds this time turning the tables on their adversaries and winning. Frank Phillips and Frank Quinn then put in an appearance with lunch for both teams. Lunch was taken, and washed down with a glass of sweet cider. The third bout started at four o’clock. There was a struggle of forty-five minutes, terminating in victori' for the Blues.. Tne teams again changed goals. Tne captain of the Blues stepped among his men, and gave them some instructions. It was plain that he intended to change his tactics, and if possible get the ball within the western goal, winning the third and final bout. Grever was on the alert, and sent a few of his trusty Ohio boys to critical positions. By the way, Frank is an Ohio boy, and chose all the “Buckeyes” on his side, but one. Charley’s team was composed mostly of Illinois and Southern boys. It would seem that there was no affinity between the ball and western goal, for it again reached the eastern goal, making both teams even in games won. The fifth and winning bout was won in forty minutes by the Blues. Among the best players were the captains of
140
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
both teams, M. Burns, R. Le Bourgeois, A. Caren, R. Flemming, J. Brown, A. Burger, J. Larkin, R. and J. McCarthy, E. Orrick, E. Olis, W. Rietz, H. Rose, A. Rock, A. Rietz, A Hellebusch, F. Phillips, F. Becker, J. Scanlan, L. Cole, C. Tinley, and A. Rheinboldt.

One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, H. Ashe, R. Adams, J. Berteling, A J. Burger, W. Boulger, J. P. Brice, Al. T. Burns, F. Bell, J. G. Brady, F. VV. Bloom, B. J. Claggett, J. Carter, Geo. Clarke, F. Ciarke, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, J. Casey, B. Casey, L. Clements, T. B. Campbell, R. 8. Campbell, D. Donohue, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, L. H. Duginger, H. Deehan, AI. English, E. Fogarty, I. J. Git-tings, E. Gooley, F. Humbert, D. Harrington, A Hayden, G. Harris, T. Hinderling, J. Jordan, K L. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, J.Kurz, J. Keena, J. R. Kelly, F. Kinsella, T. Kavanagh, P. Larkin, A Lent, J. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, Ed. McGor-risk, P. McCormick, L. Marantette, E. Murphy, W. J. Murphy, J. J. McErlain, AL McEniry, J. K. Marlette, E. Molitor, M. Maloney, J. Malone, P. McGuire, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, W.AIegee, J. F. Mug, L. Mathers, J. Norfleet, J. Noonan, G. Nester, R. C. O’Brien, J. F. O’Connell, L. N. Proctor, Geo. Pike, R. E. Russell, J. Ryan, F. Reeve, 8. T. Spalding, T. W. Simms, T. Summers, J. S. Smith, F. C. Smith, P. F. Shea, S. Smith, L. Smith, Geo. Sugg, R. D. Stewait, J. Solon, L. Stitzel, S. P. Terry, P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, C. B. Van Dusen, F. X Wall, C. Whalen, W. Wilson, H. Wathen, G. Witwer, A Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Brown, A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, A A. Burmeister, T. P. Byrne, A A Bodine, Frank Becker, AL J. Burns, G. C. Castauedo, F. L. Carter, J. V. Cabei, A A. Caren, E. H. Croarkin, L. Cole, A AL Coghhn, L. W. Coghlin, H. P. Dunn, J. Devitt, T. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, S. T. Dermg, F. T. Dever, T. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, 0. J. Farrelly, J. J. Gordon, F. H, Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, Fred Glade, E. H. Gaines, Al. E. Herrick, A C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A Herrmann, A F. Hellebusch, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, J. M. Kelly, F. A Kleme, J. W. Kuhn, R. L. Le Bourgeois, J. E. Litmer, J. A. Larkin, A A Alergentheim, F. X. McPhillips, C. J. AlcDeimott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A. S. Alanuing, S. E. Aleredith, P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, K E. O’Connor, E. A Otis, G. A Orr, C. F. Perry, F. B. Phillips, A P. Perley, F. A Quinn, G. J. Quinn, C. H. C. Roberts, A R. Rheinboldt, Alex Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, G. J. Rhodius, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A S. Rock, J. P. Reiley, R. J. Semmes, J. K Scbobey, J. A Seeger, J. W. Start, J. AL. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, J. A Simms, C. A Tinley, C. H. Thiele, M. A Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, J. B. Wilder, W. T. Weny, Frank X. Zeis.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, J. W. D wenger, J. R. Bender, J. S. Courtney, J. Courtney, L. J. Young, J. S. Garrity, F. J. Garrity, W. R. Coolbaugh, G. P. Van Alourick, A Van Mourick, L. W. Spaulding, C. E. Droste, J. S. Chaves, H. A Kitz, W. J. Wright, J C. Garrick, F. J. Leach, G. J. Woodson, E. E. O’Donnell, J. A Kelly, H. C. Snee, E. A Howard, J. W. Bannister, C. J. Welty, W. H. Hanavin, F.B. Farrelly, C. V. O’Malley, H. F. Schmiickle, F. Alattes, J. J. Johnson, M. Olds, A Molander.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
J. R. Marlett, J. Delany, J. Keena, W. Scholfleld, H. B. Dulaney, C. B. Van Dusen, H. Deehan, L. Smith, J. Kurz, T. Zeien, P. B. Larkin, AI. Moloney, J. S. Smith, J. Ryan, T. Hinderling, J. F. Alug, B. Pollock, J. McNamara, J. Malone, J. Carrer, E. Gooley, R. Adams, L. Afathers, C. W. McDermott, A. Payro, R. E. Semmes, G. Castanedo, J. F. Browne, R. Le Bourgeois, C. Perry, J. M. Kelly, J. Herrmann, A Hierb, H. Dunn, J. W. Guthrie, R. O’Connor, E. Croarkin, A. Caren, J. Alorgan, E. Sugg, J. Gibbons, F. Glade, J. Weitzel, J. flellebush, J. Homan, F. Kleine, J. Larkin, E. Otis, G. Rhodius, W. Start, P. Rasche, A AL. Coghlin, L. W. Coghhn, J. Devitt, G. Foster, O. Farrelly, J. Dering, C. Rose, A Manning, E. H. Gaines, T. Devitt, P. Nelson, N. Nelson.
The List of Excellence for the Preparatory Course will be published next week.	.
In Memoriam.
INSCRIBED TO DISTANT AND DEVOTED RELATIVES OF SISTJ>' MARY OF ST. COLUMBIA. DIED. OCT. 27TH.
One of the first band of the Children of the Holy Angels received at St. Mary’s Academy of the Immaculate Conception. Five years a “ Child of the Holy Angels,” at the age of fifteen she became a novice of the Order of the Holy Cross. She goes to her reward in this the year of the Silver Jubilee of the institution, which is also that of the definition of the Dogma of the Immaculate Conception. Requiescat in pace !
i.
Some lives are sunshine, all:
No shadow seems to fall
On the refulgent path.
They sweetly go to God, Along a sapphire road Unclouded by His wrath, ii.
As some white lilies bloom
Even o’er the mournful tomb, .
Their purity unmarred,—
Some souls through trials glide, As rays through clearest tide, Unsullied and unscarred.
m.
So passed our dove-like one: The course of time was run, Without earth’s soil, earth’s blight.
Prevented in life’s spring, Her soul on tireless wing Lived in unchanging light.
IV.
Her name we find enrolled,
First of St. Mary’s fold,
“ The Holy Angels’ Child.” Child of those firm in grace, Who see God face to face, Yet guard hearts undefiled!
v.
And twenty-five bright years Undimmed by cares or fears Have glided calmly by;
“The Holy Angels’ Child” ;
As fair as unaefiled,	-
We see before us lie.
VI.
The crucifix she holds
Clasped in the mystic folds
Of her Religious Vows. Mary, the Angels’ Queen, Their rare child’s heart had seen, She made her Jesus’ spouse.
vn.
A Child of Holy Cross,
As on the velvet moss
In deepest forest glade A dew-drop, diamond pure, Shines brilliant, yet secure, So was her life arrayed.
vin.
O, father, thou wert wise To yield, thy sacred prize, Thy tender, stainless flower, To the angelic care
•	Of those whose lives are prayer :
Reward is thine this hour!
IX
Dear ones, whose tears are shed
Far from the grassy bed
Where sleeps the treasured clay, Recall her spotless life, And still poor nature’s strife,— Her joy is crowned to-day.
x
The Shepherd’s voice she heard]: Obeying His sweet word. Now in this year so blest,
The silver jubilee
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.'	141
Of Faith’s most dear decree, Her pure soul seeks its rest.
XI.
Rare Child of Holy Cross!
Ah, while we mourn our loss
Thy gain we must applaud: Thy patience, meekness, love, Shall our example prove,— Shall lead us on to God.
St. Mary’s Agadkmy.
—The subject of a lecture at the regular monthly meeting of St. Cecilia’s Society was a continuation of the “ History of Music.”
—At a reunion of the literary society of St. Clotilde, the following articles were read: A Sketch of the Life of Bossuet, a Sesum^ of his Literary Works, and his Pictures by Masillon.
—A new litany of the Blessed Virgin was sung by the Gregorian Society on Saturday evening. The singing, as also that at Vespers on Sunday by the same society, exhibited marked improvement.
—At the regular Academic reunion, in the Junior Department. Reading: “ The Widow of Naim,” by Miss M. Garrity; “Une bonne Montre,” by C. Lancaster; “Gottes Fursorge,” by Miss M. Bullinger.
—At the regular weekly meeting of the Christian Art *■ Society, the “ History of the Early Christain Art,” translated from the French of Paul La Croix, was read. The most lively interest was manifested. Notes were taken by all.
—The Mass in the Convent Chapel on Monday was said by Very Rev. Father General. The instruction was on the Gospel of Sunday, “The forgiveness of injuries.” The great and indispensable law of Christian charity was eloquently enforced.
—The German Literary Society has been organized by Mother Superior. Directress, Mother Mary of St. Gene-veive; Assistant, Sister Mary of St. Willibrord. Officers elected: President, Miss Kirchner; Vice-President, Miss Geiser; Secretary and Treasurer, Miss Gall. The society is placed under the patronage of St. Gertrude.
—At the regular Academic reunion Very Rev. Father General, who left for France on the Monday following, took leave of the pupils. He repeated former remarks made by him respecting the prizes offered, and impressed £ ■ the consideration that improvement in the various branches is to be the test of merit. He promised a speedy return from his visit to Europe.
—Visitors: Rev. Father Steiner, Huntingdon, Ind.; Mrs. Clarke, Lafayette, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Waldo, Arcade, N. Y’; Mr. and Mrs. Waldo, South Bend; Mr. Loeber, Troy, N. V-; Mrs. George, Miss George, Mrs. Denlew, Mr. Whitman and family, South Bend; Mr. Mooney, E. Albany, N- Y.; Mr. Coppen, Michigan City;,Mrs. O’Brien . and Mrs. Hill, Vicksburg, Mich.; Mrs. Walworth, Mr. Weaver, Jerome, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Works, Mishawaka ; Mr. and Mrs. Ryan, Mr. J. Ryan, Mrs. Cullen, Mr. and Mrs. Excell, Chicago; Mr. Mow, Mr. Buhler, Mr. and Mrs. Miller, Rochester, Ind.; Mr. Julius, Mr. Moses, Miss Reinhardt, Mr. Morrell, Mr. Williams, Miss Williams, Niles,Mich.; Mr. Sears, Mrs. Hatch, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Price, Richmond, Ind.; Mrs. Claffey, Miss Sousan, Mrs. Charnaeli, Buchanan, Mich.; Mrs. Feehan, Mrs. Seymour, Crown Point, Ind.; Mr. and Miss Reynolds, Hartford, Conn.; Mrs.Kelly, Watervliet, Mich.; Mr. Curtin, Mr. Evans, Cleveland, Ohio.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 2d Div.—Misses Buck, Gordon. 2d Class—Misses Sullivan,Usselman, Neu, Rosing, Killelea. 2d Div.—Misses Kirchner, McGrath, Cavenor, < Campbell. 3d Class—Misses Hackley, Callinan, I. Semmes, Solomon, Hoadley, Gall, McGrath. 2d Div.—Misses Roys, C. Hackett, Cortright, Bischoff, Bruser, Maloney, Piersol, Dallas, Wells, English, McMahon. 4th Class—Misses Ewing, Julius, Horner, Denneley, Woodin, H. Hackett. 2d Div.—Misses Mitchel), Cavenor, Leydon, Price, C. Campbell. 5th Class—Misses
Purdv, Joyce, Hamilton, Herrick, Fox, Van Namee, Otto, French, Jones, L. English. 2d Div.—Misses Dessaint, C. Wathen, Hutchinson, Harrison, O’Conner, Gibbons, Casey, Bannister, Loeber, Claffey, Danaher, Keys, Gavin, M. Mitchell, A. Dillon, Lancaster. 6th Class—Misses Hammond, Moxon, Neteler, M. Fitzgerald, McKinnis, Kinzie, Stitzel, Gillen, Reutlinger, Simms, Tailman, Wall, Thompson, 8. Wathen, Lloyd, L. Populorum, E. Populorum, C. Lancaster, E. Dallas, Wells, Feehan. 2d Div.—Misses Fishburne, Murphy, De Lapp, Edelen, Duncan, Moll, McFadden, Wright, Flemming, Rasche, Ward, Lemontey, C. Ryan, E. Papin, E. Ryan, J. Baroux, Cox, Chirhart. 7th Class—Misses Smith, Watson, Halloran, Zimmerman, A Taylor, G. Taylor, I. Hackett. 8 th Class—Misses Ginz, E. Lloyd, Blanche Garrity, Butts. 9th Class—Misses Carter, Wilkins. 10th Class—Misses M. Baroux. McCloskey, M. Fitzgerald. Organ—Misses C. Wathan, 8. Wathan. Harp —Misses Galen, I. Semmes. A Dillon, A. McGrath. Harmony—1st Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, A. Dillon. 2d Div. —Misses Buck, Gordon. 3d Class—Misses Usselman, Neu. Technical Exercises—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon, Buck, Gordon, Usselman, Neu, Sullivan, R >sing, Killelea, Kirchner, A. McGrath, Farrell, Campbell, I. Semmes, Gall, Solomon, Hackley, Bruser, Wells, Roys, English, Dallas, Bischoff, Rhem-hardt, Horner, Julius, Dennehey, A. Ewing.|C. Hackett, Hamilton, Otto, O’Connor, Hammond, McMahon, Thompson, Rasche, vocal department.
1st Class—Miss Silverthorn. 2d Div.—Miss Kirchner. 2d Class—Misses Gordon, Usselman. 3d Class—Misses C. Hackett, Farrell. 4th Class—Misses Buck, Sullivan, McGrath, A McGrath, A. Ewing, Julius, Herrick, O’Connor, Callinan, L Semmes, Solomon, Bruser, O’Neill, Reinhardt, Otto. 5th Class —Misses Purdy, Mitchell, French, M. English, Jones, Horner, Cortright, E. Hackett, Hoadley, L. English, 8. Wathan, C. Wathan, Rasche. General Class—Misses Cavenor, Ewing, Edelen, Hackley, Simms, Casey, Lemontey, Butts, Hutchinson, Harrison, McFadden, A. Dillon, Donnelly, Zahm, Gintz, Keena.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
2d Class—Misses Joyce, M. Dallas, Otto.
3d Class—Misses Zahm, L. Lancaster, Fox, Wells, Wall, C. Lancaster, Feehan, J. Baroux, Barlow, Hammond, Thompson, Callinan.
painting in water-colors.
2d Class—Misses A. Ewing, S. Papin, Dessaint, C. Campbell, Papin, Sullivan, Butts, Casey, Loeber.
oil painting.
1st Class—Misses Neteler, Buck, Hambleton.
2d Class—Misses Killelea, Cortright, Dillon. 3d Class—Misses I. Semmes, Zahm.
GENERAL DRAWING.	•
Senior Department—Misses Lancaster, Halloran, Gavin, Roys, Tallman, Simins, Gall. Murphy, Hammond, Jones, A. Ryan, Kinzie, McKinnis, Edelen, Cox. Bischoff, Williams, Bruser, O’Connor, Donnelly, C. Hackett, Quinn, Keys.
Junior department—Misses C. Lancaster. A. Dillon, Barlow, Hale, J. Duncan, Claffey, L. English, Legnard, Clarke, Rutlinger, C. Ryan, E. Ryan, Van Namee, McCloskey, Moll, Fishburne, Lemontey, E. Populorum.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR department.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Maloney. Keenan Woodin, Ewing, Hambleton, Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, A Ryan, C. Hackett, Buck, Cortright, Rosing, Quinn. A Ewing, Galen, Farrell, Daneher, Kirchner, Gordon, Hoadley, I. Semmes, A. McGrath, Lloyd, Dillon, Joyce, Herrick, Ussleman, Otto, Winston, Mitchell, Geiser, Smith, O’Neill, Williams, Loeber, M. Fitzgerald, Donnelly, Gall, M. Dallas, Roys, Wells, Bischoff, Bruser, McMahon, C. Wathan, S. Wathan, Zahm, Piersol, M. Campbell, Keyes. Murphy, Lancaster, 8;mms, Hamilton, Kinzie, Stitzel, Taylor, Gillen, Keena, Dessaint, Wall, McKinnis, Gavin, Baroux, Wright, Price, Thompson, McFadden, Horner, Solomon, Reindhardt, Rasche, Mitchell, Halloran, Moxon, Edelen, Tallman, Reynolds, Atwood, par excellence. Misses Neu, English, Jones, De Lapp, Julius, Callinan, O’Connor, Hackley, Hammond, Purdy,.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, Feehan, Dillon^ C. Campbell, Orr, French, Populorum, Van Namee, S. Semmes, E. Hackett, Casey, Leyden, Fishburne, Lewis, Joseph, Moll, G. Taylor, McCloskey, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, Carter, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Flemming, Duncan, Reutlinger, Chirhart, Barlow, Legnard, E. Populorum, L. English, Ginz, Paquette, Clarke, Hale, Hutcheson, Harrison, Considine, Robinson, V. Orr, M. Baroux, par excellence. Misses Fox, Lemontey, Papin, Garrity, Wells, E. Dallas, Watson, Zimmerman, E. Papin, Estridge, B. Garrity, Fitzgerald, Wilkins
142
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(On^ Hile West of Notre Name).
Under the. Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recitals.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music cr in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded tn the following courses:—German. French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
INMAN LINE.
ThreerGreat’Cities of the West
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS. NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS. 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to JOHN G- DALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York. Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, octS-if Lal’orte, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 C5 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13 16 p.m. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540p.m. Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 13 p.m, A’lantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 240 a.m: Cleve’and, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4= 50 and 4= p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 4=3 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a m, Chicago 820 a m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m. -
8 03 a m. Accommodation Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
. J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO TO ST. LOVIS, and ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY. CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and
. PEKIN and PEORIA. .
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL
POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tlie Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
Jambs Charlton, General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.
W. C. Van Horne,	J. C. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Manager.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
143
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. TL EDWARDS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, AND JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving- Doi>p. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
£
0 0) k
5 o
A MAN
co
I
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST I


t=l
0 U)
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet. Ottawa. La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell and .Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria ; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap. Centreville. Princeton. Trenton. Gallatin. Cameron. Leavenworth and Atchison: Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte. Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon. Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa. Pella, Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any tirst-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “ Havana ” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs. Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R CONNECTIONS OF TIHS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, FL Wayne & Chicago R Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & SL Louis R R.
At La Salle, with Illinois Central R R
At Peoria, with P., P. & J.: P..L.&D.: I.B.* W.; Ill. Midland;and T.. P. & W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R R and Rock Island & Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R R.
At Grinnell, with Central R R of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D. M. & Ft. Dodge R. R At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R R At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R R R (in Neb.) At Columbus Junction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids & Northern R R
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa: SL Louis. Kan. City & Northern and C.. B. & Q. R Rds.
At KEOKUK, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and SL Louis. Keokuk & N.-W. R Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, SL J. & C. B. R R
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe: Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific RRds.
At LEAVENWORTH, with K. P. and K. Cen. R Rds.
PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA.DES MOINES, COUNCII. BLCFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVE.VWOKTH:
Tickets via this Elne, known as the “Great Rock Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.	'
For information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
-A.. KIMBALL.	E. ST. JOHN.
Gen’l Soperintandeot,	Genfl Tkt. and ParnVr AgL,
Chicago, HL
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
QUIN BUILDINGS
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a_half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. COBBY, C.45. C., Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.