l)ear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I.
Notre Dame University, Oct. 12, 1867. No. 6.
St. Mary’s Academy.
On Sunday evening, Very Rev. Father Provincial made some remarks of great importance:	.
He informed the young ladies that they did not make enough noise in their recreations. He told them that they should be more energetic and lively in their pastimes: that they should be in earnest at whatever they were engaged. While writing a composition they should write withall their heart; while studying they should do the same, and be prompt and active on all occasions. “ Age quod agis! should be your motto,” he said. “Do, what you do I” Never loiter at any thing you have to perform. Accomplish it always in the least possible space of time. When at play, do it in earnest. He recommended the punctuality of his little Minims at Notre Dame as a model. “ They never,” he said, “ wait for the second sound of the bell.” From full recreation, they subside into most profound silence, and each one is eager to be in his own proper rank on the instant. He said they never obliged him to wait in the morning alter he was vested for Mass. They are never a moment behind time. He impressed upon the young ladies the fact that gravity, melancholy, solemnity of manner and carriage, are quite out of keeping with their age. love for exercise, buoyancy of steps, and cheerfulness of bearing, are charming and beautiful, because natural, and to be looked for in young persons.	’
“ If you were advanced to the age of seventy or eighty years, you might be expected to assume a slow and careful gait,” he said, “ but not so now. life, animation, should mark everything you undertake.”
The exciting competitions in class, and the sets of croquet in process of formation, seem to indicate that the kind instructions are proving already f.uitftil.
True Beauty.
True beauty does not consist in regular features, clear complexion, lovely eyes, hair, forehead, &c.. but rather in the truthful condition of the heart, and the good qualities of the mind. A young lady may be what the world calls beautiful, bitt she is not truly so, if she is not obedient, amiable, charitable, and thoughtful of the happiness of others. Are there many who possess true beauty? Alas, I fear that their number is very small.. And why? It is because that so many in their- youth yield to their desire to please themselves, by selfish indulgence in foolish passions. They cultivate the'weeds in their hearts, and trample on the flowers: cherish the wicked inclinations to pride, envy, anger, and jealousy, while they disdain the opposite virtues of humility, charity, meekness and kind judgment of others. If we are willing to be regarded as proud, we must expect to be disliked by those with whom we are thrown in contact, and there is no vice so inconsistent with true beauty of soul, as pride, because it destroys every other good trait we may chance to possess. Indulgence • in pnde will surely subject us to the reproach and sarcasm of the society with which we mingle, and this very natural interference will certainly arouse our anger, which may seriously abridge our ability to benefit our best friends. Pride prevents us from forgiving injuries, and we cannot hof>e for mercy to ourselves, while we. are in such a disposition. This very fact takes all beauty from our spirits, for God cannot smile upon us and where ms smile does not rest, there is nothin" lovely upon earth. •
We should earnestly strive to secure the true beauty of which lam speaking. Should every one expend two thirds of the time he or she now wastes in striving to appear beautiful, in endeavoring to be really so, earth would be far more like heaven than it now is. It would be a delight then instead of an annoyance to attend a party. Our minds would be diverted from pretty ribbons, silks
and jewels, to the expression of good thoughts and emotions. One may possess this heavenly prize and it may be quite unappreciated, yet this fact should not discourage us in our attempts to secure it.	■
The power to soothe the turbulent and ungovernable temper of those with whom we may chance to be, to, calm those who are discontented, to cheer those who are sad, is a power far superior to the control over others conferred by mere physical beauty.
To regard life as a mysterious fabric, in which we are to embroider wonderful figures, and in which every good action is a stitch towards the perfection of the heavenly tapestry, while every bad deed is a false stitch marring, if not destroying, the design, and to act upon this conviction, is the most secure method of obtaining those attractions which will not die, though dust may crumble back to its mother dust.	Gertrude Leedy.
Arrivals.
Miss F. Grant, Warrenville, Illinois, Oct. 7th; Miss Emma Pickett, New Carlisle, Indiana, October 9th.
TABLES OK HONOR.
Senior Department—Misses J. Schutt, H. Brooks, Mary Twomey, Laura Lewis, Elmira Smith, Minerva Ryan, L. and M. Chouteau, Maria Druliner, H. Seeley, N. Thompson, Emma Roustead and Amelia Sissons.
Junior Department—Misses M. Shirland, Helen Sprochnle, L. McKenney, Ada Metzger, Agnes Longley, Amelia Boyles, Julia and Maggie Walker.
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Class—Misses Mary Tripp, C. and L. Plimpton, K. Doran, Florence Alspaugh and L. Murray.
First Senior Class—Misses L. and L. Tong, Nora Maher, Emma Longsdorf, K. Cunnea, Mary Van Patten, Genevieve Arrington, K. Livingstone, Agnes Ewing and Lizzie Lyons.
Second Senior Class—8. Rooney, K. Young, Anna Cunnea, Mary Carraher, K. Graham, Anna Adams, Rosana Mukautz, C. Davenport, Virginia Brown, Mary Morrill, Mary Miller, Frances Git-tings, Anastasia Darsey and H. Lill.
Third Senior Class—Misses N. Ogle, R. Rettig, Belle Gardner, Mary McColley, E. and M. Barclay, ,G. and S. Blakeslee, L. Ryan, Sarah Shipley, N. Simms, Anna Breson, E. Miller, J. Greishop, K. Carpenter, Clara Foote, V. Bragg, E. Connan, Stiena Thomson and M. Toberty.
. First Intermediate—Teresa Stapleton, Anna

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
3
Tarrant, Augusta Sturgis, Sarah Walker, E. Lindsay, L. Bicknell, R. and J. Sittings, R. Joslin and M. Rooney.
Second- Intermediate—Misses M. Simms, Clara Castetter and Lizzie Niel.	’
First Junior—Mary Moon and Mary Clark.
Third Junior—Little Leo Mills.
Promotion—Miss S. Thomson, from the First Intermediate, to the Third Senior Class.
■	Eosary Society.
On the first Sunday of October, the Feast of the Holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin Mary, this Society held, its annual election of officers, which resulted as follows:
Directress—Sister M. LaSalette.
President—Miss H. Brooks.
Vice-President—Miss Agnes Ewing.
Secretary—Miss Genevieve Arrington.
Treasurer—Miss M. Ball. --
With the Rosary Society is connected that of the Nocturnal Adoration—all the pupils who . have made their First Communion being members of both.
While there is no influence exerted over the minds of non-Catholic pupils, yet no pains are spared to cultivate devotion in the hearts of the . Catholic members of the school. They are, accordingly, required to approach the tribunal of Penance, and to -receive Holy Communion—the two most important acts of a Christian’s life— once every month. The beautiful devotion of Nocturnal Adoration accompanies this monthly requirement. An hour for each young Catholic girl is allotted to Nocturnal Adoration on the last night of the month. The following morning all approach the Holy Table—that is, receive the Blessed Eucharist as a pledge of everlasting life.
Nocturnal Adoration.
. This devotion is practiced as an act of reparation for the insults and forgetfulness of God, so common among His intelligent creation. As night is the period when wickedness is most frequently committed, when the robber, the debauchee and the murderer fancy themselves shielded from detection, it is an appropriate hour for innocent spirits to.compensate as far as they can for the indignities offered to Infinite Goodness and Mercy. This is why the Society of the Nocturnal Adoration choose the last night of every month for this devotion, that each principal division of the year may be inaugurated (so to speak) by a fresh assurance of fidelity to God and
His commandments. To a heart religious in its sentiments this practice seems quite natural. Night folds a cope of blue and gold, of stars and deep clear sky about her solemn form. With the thurible of silence she comes forth, and spontaneously the souls of those who acknowledge a loving Creator offer the incense of their adoration to be burned therein. But at what worthy altar shall they bow ? The Pagan adores the sun and stars. We cannot. Enter this chapel door. What gentle rays are poured through all the spaces ? They are from the lights around the monstrance, where the Blessed Sacrament (our Lord in the veil He has Himself chosen) is exposed for adoration. With the silence of night we here find their grandeur worthily administering to the homage due from “ Nature to Nature’s God.” ■
The King of kings receives His loyal subjects in His own Audience Chamber, and we cannot wonder at the delight with which every Catholic child at St. Mary’s looks forward to the night of Nocturnal Adoration, for they are then at home with our Heavenly Father, our Blessed Redeemer, whom they are soon to receive into their own. happy hearts.
Favored children to assist the hierarchy of Heaven in their work of reparation! The grasping and the gay hoard their gold or expend it upon clothing and ornaments to deck the body. Upon the altar treasures are offered to manifest love for imperishable riches, while the fripperies of the world are ignored, and the quiet and loveliness of night consecrated in nocturnal adoration, to prayer and meditation by which the character is ennobled, the temper subdued, and the young girl prepared to make a pious, true and worthy member of society, and if true to her faith, a blessed citizen of Heaven when the world is no more! .
. Birth-Day Fete.
Not many days since Miss Elmira Smith, with invited guests, celebrated the fourteenth anniversary of her birth-day, picnic style, under the pavilion of the Holy Angel Guardian. A box of peaches, can of oysters, basket of cake, and numberless “delectables” of a like nature, were lying around in commercial rather than in artistic order, when Very Rev. Father Provincial, accompanied by Mr. Meneely, proprietor of the well-knbwn bell foundry in Troy, paused at this very spot. The gentleman had visited Notre Dame for the purpose of hearing the grand church bell, lately imported from Europe, and the sudden

■ ' -f'
4	■	-'	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
visit made * the little ladies resolve to be a little ' more formal in their preparations for picnics in future, yet they were pleased to have their festival cheered not only by the famous guest, but by the rich concert given by “ Our Lady'of the Sa-., cred Heart”—we mean the bell itself, which boomed so richly and so joyfully in praise of its beautiful patroness.	'
CORRESPONDENCE.
Special Observations. *
It must be distinctly understood that the Editor declines being responsible for the opinions of his correspondents.	«
All communications for The .Scholastic’Yeah, intended for publication, must arrive here the Thursday before the Saturday of publication.
All communications must be signed by the real name cf the correspondent, who may, however, choose another name as a signature to liis article.	■
As the “ Administration” of The Scholastic Yeah is entirely disconnected from that of the Ave Maria, alTIefters referring to The Scholastic Year should be addressed to
Rev. N. H. GILLESPIE, Eo. S. Y., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Philodemic.
On Tuesday evening the following question was debated in this -Society: Is an Absolute
Monarchy the best form of Government ?
Affirmative—M. Horgan, H. C. Allen.	* 1
Negative—S. G. Moore, Wm. Walker.	•
The arguments.brought forward by the first gentleman on the affirmative, were:	»
1st. It is found by referring to history, that as Governments proceed from a Republican form to a Monarchical one, the workings of their political. systems are more peaceful and regular, as may be readily seen by the difference between the accession of a Russian Monarch who quietly receives the crown from his father, and the election of a Chief Executive in the United States and governments of the same kind; he also cited numerous ‘ examples to thow that Republics and limited Monarchies had not produced orators or poets to compare with those of the Absolute Monarchies.
2d. That Russia and China, the two most absolute monarchies now known, have a greater pop- „ ulation, a better system of education, and are more prosperous with respect to internal improve-" ments, than any others.? Hence he concluded that an Absolute Monarchy was the best form of Government.
Mr. Moore, the first gentleman on the negative, said that form of government is not the best which crushes the energies of individuals, that trammels
the just freedom of the press, and that imposes arbitrary and barbarous punishments. We find by consulting history that the Assyrian government remained for thirty generations in a^state of oblivion, owing to its despotic form of government and .to the* indolence and luxurious habits of its sovereigns. We also find that the liberty of the press, in Absolute Monarchies, is prohibited to a great degree, as in China and Russia. In Russia, if a person brought a charge which could not be sustained by witnesses, he was punished by having red-hot irons and boiling water put to his bare body;--	-
Mr. Allen, the second' gentleman on the affirmative, then threw his argument in the following form: that form of government which can be sustained with the least contentions, and which conduces most to the advancement of civilization, is best. He cited several examples from the history of nations, which proved .that Absolute Government fulfilled these conditions.	■
. Mr. Walker being absent Mr. Rodman volunteered and limited his discourse to some comments on the argument brought forward by Mr. Horgan.	«	< G.
-------------- *
. St. Edward’s Literary. -
The first debate of the St. Edward’s Association of the present term, came off on last Tuesday evening October Sth. The subject: Resolved, that the present system of common schools, is injurious to the morals of the rising generation, was carefully discussed by Messrs J. McBride, J. Dickinson, and F. Jennings, on the affirmative, and Messrs F. Guthrie, J. Rogers, and H. B. Keeler on the negative.
The Association holds two meetings weekly : one every T.uesday evening, for the discussion of Literary and Historical subjects, and reading of original essay; and another on Wednesday morning for the transaction of business, and reading of Elocutionary exercises. Onthe.Jast Wednesday of each month, a mock court, will be substituted,instead of the reading exercises, thus giving to each member an idea of the manner in which a real court is conducted, and instructive. lessons in the art of. legal pleading.	J.
Promotions.—Lawrence Wilson? from 3d to 2d Arithmetic; Thomas Bateman, from 2d to 1st Geography; C. Mott, Rom 2d to 1st Geography; Joseph Harrison, from 5th to 4th Arithmetic.
I

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR..	.	5
A New Club.
On the 2d of October a new club was organized bearing the scientific name of Terpsichorean Club. We are glad to*hear that such a club as this, has been organized, as it is highly commendable for -the physical exercise, as well as the real enjoyment of the <students.
We are surprised that such an organization did not take place ere ibis, considering the number of students of the University that delight so much in “ tripping on the light fantastic toe.” Our friends are invited to join.
The officers are:	' ’	*
President and Musical Director—J. W. Watts.
Treasurer—R. Short.
Secretaiy—James Edwards.
Floor Managers—N. S. Wood and E. E. Hull.
The club numbers thirty-five members. - -<«££><■>-------------------
- Fourth ‘Grammar Class, Junior.
Mn. Editor : This class is now divided into two parties, Greeks and Romans. Each Leader returns to the lowest rank at the beginning of every week', and works himself up again, to the leadership by his own merits; so that every one, by not neglecting his duty, may in turn become Leader. '	-
During the battles of this week, the Greeks . were on the whole victorious-; though both parties would have done much better if they had been more attentive to discipline. Hereafter, we hope to furnish you with a more detailed account of the conflicts of these hostile forces.
At the close of this week, we have to report - Austin Gabel, Leader of the Greeks.
James Wilson, Leader of the Romans.
Additional List of Students of Notre Dame.
'	. OCTOBER 5th. . t
Thomas Downing,	Little Traverse, Mich?
Harry C. Schwab,	Youngstown, Ohio.
Mark W. Montgomery, Little Washington, Pa.
‘ OCTOBER 7th.	.	.
David L. Brady, Reeder’s Mills, Iowa. OCTOBER 9th.
Joseph Gampau,	Kalamazoo,’ Michigan.
Theodore Gampau,	“	“
OCTOBER 10th.
Charles W. Fuhier, Mount Vernon, Indiana.
Thomas W. Duvall, Terre Haute, . “ OCTOBER 11th.
Charles C. Twornby, Chicago, Hlinois.
. Tables of Honor. . "
, SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Ivo Buddekfi, Edward E. Hull, C. Hertiche, R. ' Heffernan, H. Keeler,'A; M. Owen, T. O’Mahoney, William O’Donnell, F. Pape, William Trumbo and J. W. "Watts.	.
'	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
• Henry Beakey, J. Burns, J. Coppinger, J. E. Callahan, A. Cable, W. Dodge, H. Moody, J. Rumely, W. Trout, J. Wilson and Carlton Sage.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
John Bracken, Ernest Lyons, George Lyons, Martin Smith, Wallace Templeton and Charles Toll.
LOCA U.
St. Edward’s Day,—As we go to press, Saint -Edward’s Day, celebrated this year on the 12th, because the 13th falls on a Sunday, shines brightly out, and the Base Ball boys are preparing for their matches. We drop the pen, and, wishing for double-plated armor, venture out on the field of bats and balls.- -
Washington Hall.—The destructive properties of plaster are making themselves felt in this building. The paint is, as it were, devoured by the lime, and the color has become almost white.. The wood-work, however? appears in all its originally destined glory, and turns as naturally into marble as the college walls have turned into wood.*
The Infirmary.—The habitues bf this institution are becoming pretty well known? We have no reference to those who occasionally have to go thither to cure the tooth ache or other ills to which our flesh is heir ; but to those who seek that Blessed Abode in order to sleep some time longer, on the morning, and to shirk from class during the day.	•
. What will he do with rr?—Or rather, what will the St. Aloysians do with the marly quagmirp they are enclosing with their newly extended fence, to form part of the appurtenances and- demesnes of their novitiate? A neighbor suggests • that they are going to open amateur lime-kilns for amusement and relaxation during their leisure hours. If so, we advise them not to burn
J
6	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
their fingers. The fence itself is architectural in its character and worthy of a better fate. The avenue to St. Mary’s is much improved in appearance thereby.
J We learn from Brother Boniface, the Superior of our Brothers in Cincinnati, that some day last week, the Most Rev. Archbishop visited their numerous classes at St. Francis’, and gave each teacher and each scholar a medal blessed by the Holy Father, thus making hundreds of young hearts perfectly delighted. The Archbishop was surprised to see the classes so crowded. Another. Brother, the fifteenth, has been sent there since, to lighten the burden of his confreres. They teach at this time in Cincinnati, over 1600 boys, all Germans. We should be pleased to know the names of the best.
Choosing- Sides.—Do not say that you cannot study Grammar. This ungrounded assertion is now plainly refuted by the members of the Fifth Grammar, (Junior). We will publish next week the names o‘f the victorious divisions.
We highly recommend the system of rival divisions in each class, which creates emulation among the pupils. We hear of the Excelsior Base Ball Club, Star of the West Base Ball Club, and of many others with high sounding names. 'Why should we not have in our Grammar and Arithmetic classes, as well- as in Reading and Spelling, the Washington Division, or the Excelsior Division, or whatever name you wish? and let earnest- and peaceful battles be fought that will exercise the brain and kill nobody.
-----*------3 • t
Caligrathy.—The monthly compositions of tlie Junior Writing Class deserve a special mention for the very fine manner in which they were produced. They cannot be surpassed in cleanliness, nor in application. Indeed, it took the examiner a long time to decide which were the best compositions; and it is with the hope that none would be offended, that he selected for publication the following names, as those of the best writers :
Wm. Reynolds, Wm. Trout, C. Dodge, L. Wilson, C. Hildebrand, D. Eagan, C. Marantette, S. McCurdy, B. Heffernan, Jos. Schmelz, H. Benoist, T. W. Coppinger, D. S. Bell, T. Raggio, Jas. Wilson and Jas. McGuire.
Next month we will publish the names of those
who shall have made the greatest progress, and we will carefully preserve their first compositions for comparison hereafter.
-----
The Eagle.—We are sorry we omitted to notice this useful and ornamental creature in our last issue. The cage has been removed, though not to the locality suggested in a former issue,— a want of appreciation of the value of editorial hints to be reprobated by all who are sensible of the benefit they- enjoy in the freedom of the press, and in having a fearless monitor of public morality. ,-An additional apartment has also been provided, regardless of "expense, as a dormitory, for the accommodation of the noble fowl. The Eagle has latterly shown a disposition to occupy the highest perch, where he sits watching the tergiversations of the boys in the playground, and commenting inwardly on the follies of humanity. He occasionally turns up his aquiline nose at a ‘ too intrusive visitor.. These beautiful traits of character, thus gradually developing, accord well with the lofty and majestic view taken of the eagle by. our national poets, and impress the beholder with sentiments of veneration. It may truly be said of him, that those who come to scoff’ (or rather to poke him with a long stick,) remain to—well, sometimes to execute their origi-mal intention.
------**—
Rev. Father Provincial returned last Saturday from a short visit to Joliet and Morris, and seems to have been much pleased with what he saw and heard in both places. At Joliet there are seven Sisters all actively employed in a large parochial school, and in a select school. Rev. Father Farrelly is now engaged in building a beautiful convent, which he expects to have ready for occupancy by the first of May. The site on which the building is being erected, about one hundred feet from the church, is one of the finest in the city. Nowhere is Catholic education better appreciated.
At the time Father Provincial chanced to be in Morris, the pupils of St. Angela’s Academy were celebrating the festival of St. Francis, the patron saint of their beloved.Superioress—of course all was merriment and joy. This Academy seems to be more than ever, in a flourishing condition; the numbers of its inmates is fully one third larger than last year. Eight Sisters are engaged in it and two more in the parochial school. Their zealous Pastor, Rev. Father Ryan, cannot be too much praised for the pains he takes in the wel-
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
7
fare and development of this Academy. He does, well-nigh as he pleases in Morris, having not alone the esteem but the affection of all around him. - ■
■	Big Apples.—The Minims of Notre Dame are
certainly the biggest-hearted and most whole-souled little fellows in the world. It is undoubt-.edly true that Very Rev. Father Provincial takes great pleasure in giving them “ treats” whenever his many duties allow him to think that he, too, once was young, and that though he is advanced in years, his heart is still young, and naturally gravitates to the innocent hearts of the Minims. Nor can it be questioned that they—the afore-honorably-mentioned Mimims—havfe the advantage of their Junior, though older, dwellers at Notre Dame in this, that they ofttimes receive * occasional cakes and surreptitious apples, and various other goodies from sources they know well. Nevertheless, we can vouch that they “ do as they would be done by”—and whenever one of them receives a box, the contents of that box are shared with others. Even we, gruff and grum though we be, are not excluded from this large-hearted liberality, and to prove that we are not ungrateful, though we may "be grum, -we.must publicly, here and now, return our thanks to Master Toll for a whole lot of the finest, largest, juiciest, mellowest apples we have seen this season. They would have thrown into the shade all the apples we saw at the County Fair, had they arrived sooner. '	•
------—
/	Mrs. P.’s Visit.
J __
We announced in our last that Mrs. Partington was expected to visit Notre Dame, and accordingly the old lady made her appearance one day during the past week, stepping out of the South Bend Express with her customary “ specs,” green cotton umbrella and benignant smile. Master Ike, now grown into a somewhat gawky lad of 5 feet 11 % inches, slouched up the steps after her in a new butternut suit and paper collar. His pockets were filled with peanuts, which he was eating to beguile the tedium of the journey. “Air yeu the Presidentinquired the old lady of Brother Peter, who happened at that time to be passing through the hall. A polite reference to • Father Superior was the result of. this, and the terms of Ike’s education having been settled, although the old lady’s views of the economical were not exactly suited, she sallied forth to in
spect the objects of interest in Notre Dame and its vicinity. Father Superior, perceiving Professor ----at some distance off, summoned him and entrusted the distinguished visitor to his ciceroneship. They first proceeded through the college itself, where Mrs. P. was struck with admiration and delight at the various objects that met her astonished gaze. “ But I should think it would look better if-they were all in unicorn,” said she, after expressing her pleasure at seeing the order kept by the students in ranks. “ So it would,” replied the Professor, “ and there was a proposition to that effect some time ago, but I suppose it has fallen to the ground.” “ I hope it didn’t fall from very high up,” remarked she, benevolently, endeavoring to’fathom the height of the staircases with her spectacles. “Let us enter one * of the class-rooms, and see them at their studies,” said the Professor, opening a door. A mathematical class was reciting within, and an intellectual-looking young gentleman was covering the blackboard with x’s and y’s and crooked lines. “You see, my dear Madam, it all depends on the relation of the sines and co-sines,” said the Professor, in his usual bland explanatory style. “ Does it, indeed ? Wal, now, I think depending on one’s relations is a very poor way to get along —especially if they are only cousins. What’s the use of the Declaration of Independence if a man can’t make his own way in the world?” “ Very true,” said the Professor; and they went to look at the big bell.
Tins morning, the 12th, Very Rev. Father Provincial celebrated Mass, with Benediction, in the College Chapel, before an unusually large congregation. At the close he made some interesting remarks, relating the narrative of a miracle performed by the intercession of the Blessed Virgin, by which a • child was restored to life after being buried for three weeks. He also alluded to a subject nearer home, and which is likely to’be taken up with considerable enthusiasm; bu^ we shall forbear making any further or more definite mention of it in this issue, as we believe it would be premature.
We visited St. Patrick’s School, South Bend, the other day, and were courteously received* by our old friends, Bros. Philip and Nazarius. To judge by the appearance of the bright, intelligent faces surrounding them, their office is a -pleasant one, though not a sinecure.’
®.h.t JFrMwiu
A PEHIODICAL
DEVOTED TO THE LOCAL INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS DF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S,
IS published every Saturday, at Notre Dame, Indiana, from the Ave jMaria Press. It contains matter under the following heads :
1st. Arrivals of Students and Friends at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
2d. Honorable mention of Students, both in regard to Conduct and Studies.
3d. Promotions.
4th. Articles from the Classes in English Composition, selected by their respective Professors. 5th. Bulletins of General Health.
6th. Correspondence from the various Schools connected with the College and St. Mary’s Academy.
7th. Notes and Notices of Field Sports, Boating, etc.
8th. Matters of General Interest.
9th. Interesting Correspondence from Schools throughout the Country.
All Communications intended for this Paper should be addressed to
BEV. If. H. GILLESPIE.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA.
THIS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, afiords accommodation to Five Hundred Students. Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is of easy access from all parts of the United States. •
TEEKIS: Matriculation Fee...' ..........................................................$	5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition, (Latin and Greek included;) Washing and
Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per Session of five months...................................................... 15ft	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each..............................   10	00
Instrumental Music............................................................... 12	50
Use of Piano....................................................................  10	00
Use of Violin..................................................................... 2	50
Drawing.......................................................................... 10	00
Painting............................'............................................ 20	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus....................................... 5	00
Graduation Fee.................................................................. 10-	00
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra..... 35 00
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., Furnished at Current Prices.
The First Session opened on Tuesday last. The Second Session opens on the 1st of February. For further particulars address
KEV. W. COKEY, §. §. C.9
Winn's JUinkmn,
,, Notre Dame, St. Joseph. County, Indiana,
TWO MILES FROM SOUTH BEND,
*	e
HAS earned its wide-spread popularity by the devoted efforts of the Sisters of Holy Cross to render it the perfection of an educi.ti mal house. In the Sciences and in the accomplishments the best Teachers are secured.
TSRHS, $20 0 PSH ARKUSS.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the “Twelfth Annual Catalogue oi at. Mary’s Academy,” for the year 1866 -7, or address •
WlWai AWELA, Superioress
Notre Dame Post Office, Indianft,.