
lotre Dame Scholastic
Disce quasi semper "victTirTis ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 26, 1879.
Number 34.
Our Great Calamity.
THE UNIVERSITY DESTROYED BY FIRE.
Notre Dame Stretches out her Hands to her Friends Everywhere for Help in her Affliction.

On fire, in flames, in ashes! Such is the history of Our Lady’s College for a few short hours, beginning at about eleven o’clock on Wednesday morning, April 23d, 1879. The story of alarm, of hurried help, of almost superhuman but vain labor in ex:inguishing the raging flames, and finally of saving whatever of value that could be snatched from the fire, has all been graphically told by the daily press for the past few days, and we have hardly the heart to go over the dreadful story. But our friends havea right to hear from us through our own little paper, and so they shall, for, thank God, our printing-office is one of the precious things spared by the devouring element.
The origin of the fire it is simply impossible to ascertain. Workmen had been engaged on the roof until ten o’clock, and on coming down had locked the door opening on the dome. Whether the sun infl imed the dry timberdust, or a spark from the chimney of the steam-house set fire to it, remains a matter of conjecture. The one thing certain is, that the accident could neither have been foreseen nor prevented.
The fire was first seen from the Minims’ yard. The flame was on the roof, near the east side of the dome, and the Minims’ shrill cry of “ College on Fire! ” was soon echoed on every side by brother, priest, student and professor. A very little water at first would have been sufficient to save the building, but before water could be carried to the top of the sixth story the pitch roof was already blazing, and nothing less than a deluge from the city stand-pipe could have subdued those fierce flames.
Still, with a hope that was almost without any foundation, an unthinking confidence that the beloved edifice could not thus perish before their eyes, long lines of men and boys were formed all the way up the stairways from story to story, up to the roof, and water was thus sent up. At the same time water was forced up the pipes by steam, and the great tanks on the upper stories were rapidly emptied by crowds of workers. But they contended with an enemy that could not be subdued. The long water-lines, too, became too anxious to rush each with own water supply to the fire. Mr. Bonney, the photographer, Prof. Ivers, and numerous others tried in vain to preserve the lines. As soon as the supports of the dome burned away, and the massive statue fell through to the floor below, carrying the flames directly into the mansard roof and the dry partitions and furniture, even the most hopeful gave way, and water was only brought to protect those who were saving the libraries, museums and furniture of the various departments.
Most heroically was this labor of saving performed. A stripling student seemed to be endowed with the courage of a hero and the strength of a giant. Especially did the generous and kindly-hearted students rush into their old class-rooms and the private rooms of Very Rev. Father Corby, Father Walsh, Father Kelly, and their prefects and'
professors, breaking open the doors where necessary, and carrying away to places of safety whatever had become-dear to them through the ties of association and fond recollection. Many a priest and professor who forgot all; about t heir private affairs in laboring for the general safety-can now hardly refrain from tears when he finds that all his little articles of value, books, pictures, costly instruments, private papers of priceless value, and even heavy-desks and book-cases, have been securely, and even it would seem lovingly, carried to places of safety by the warmhearted students. They loved Notre Dame as their second home, but never loved her as when the cruel flames were sna’ching her from their eyes forever.
But while all this was going on, help was pouring in from all sides. All the neighbors for miles around w< re bringing water or trying to save some articles. As soon as-the fire was discovered, telegram after telegram was sent to-the city, imploring help, and asking for the fire-engine. As-soon as the firemen cou.d gather from their shops, and put-the engine in working order, it was carried out. Mayor Tong, Councilman Nevius, Supt. Abbott, Chief Brusie-and Assistant Hall, and numerous firemen and citizens,, receive the warmest expressions of gratitude. South Bend-displayed a most grateful sympathy in our, affliction which-will be remembeied as long as Notre Dame and her sister city flourish side by side in mutual help and good will’ towards one another. The engine had not been used before-for two years, had but recently been repaired, and it was-not known at first whether it would work. But it performed admirable service, and could it have been there in-the beginning, or even an hour earlier, it would have saved the College. Had it been there half an hour earlier it would have saved the Infirmary building, the St. Francis’’ Home, and the Music Hal). But it performed great service-as it was, for by checking the flames and dashing water on. the adjacent buildings it saved the kitchen, the steamhouse, the printing-office, and also perhaps the presbytery, the Church and the other buildings in the rear. Had' the flames once entered the kitchen, and so extended to-the western buildings, it is hardly probable that anything." would now be standing at Notre Dame.
It seems a special providence that there was so littlewind stirring to carry the flames, and that the wind was-directly from the southwest, and so took the fire from the precious Church of the Sacred Heart. It was also a-blessed thing that it came not in the night, or in the winter. Early as it was in the year, the day was as warm as-in June, so that even the feeble and the sick did not suffer from exposure. The hand of God was, besides, present insaving everyone from death or even severe accident. Two of the students, P. J. Dougherty and F. Devoto, staying-too long on the roof, were intercepted by the flames, and* had to jump from one floor to another, resulting in slight injury to the former. Mr. Klingel, a merchant of the city^ carrying out furniture, barely escaped a falling wall, and was for some time prostrated by the heat. Senator Leeper,., gathering an armful of valuable books from a flaming pile,, barely escaped a burning cornice falling from above. A-Sister, hastening out the rear door of the College, passed under the porch just as it fell in. These were perhaps-the narrowest escapes. The coolness displayed by the Sisters in entering the buildings and carrying away valuables is beyond all praise. Had they been permitted to-enter the College at first, they would have saved everything uninjured, as they did in the Infirmary, carrying.
534
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
everything out carefully and putting it in a place of safety. Unfortunately, numbers of over-zealous persons, instead of taking what they could and carrying it out of <the building, tossed everything out of the windows, breaking whatever could be broken, and only piling other 'things up below for the fire to fall upon the heap and burn •it up. The most valuable books, some of them precious •tomes hundreds of years old, were thus burned on the ground outside.
On looking about after the fires were brought under subjection, we find the great College utterly destroyed—a burnt fragment of wall standing here and there. The In ffirmary building—containing, besides, the general office and the students’ office, is burned entirely out, though the black--ened walls are still standing. The Music Hall, with the -Juniors’ play room, is entirely consumed—the south wall -fallen in. All the students’ trunks, which were kept in this building, were saved; all the pianos, however, were lost, except one. The Minims’ Hall is of course utterly gone. The Church, the Presbytery, Science Hall, the ■kitchen, the steam-house and the printing-office are left, as ds also Washington Hall.
This destruction was accomplished in about three hours. Soon after, at three o’clock, Father Corby called a meeting of the wisest assistants around him, and it was here determined that nothing could be done but bring the college year to an abrupt close. It was not without a pang of sorrow that this conclusion was arrived at, but on looking around them the council saw that it was inevitable. An hour after, the students were assembled in the church, and the decision communicated to them by Very Rev. President •Corby. To all it was a sorrowful intelligence. Almost to a. man, they protested their willingness to remain and ensure all the inconveniences to which they knew they would be subjected. It was only when the Very Rev. President had shown the utter impossibility of affording any accommodation that they could bring themselves to ■bid adieu to Notre Dame. Another meeting was held at -two o’clock Thursday afternoon, at which degrees were -conferred in the Collegiate, Law and Medical Classes. On Friday morning, at eight o’clock, the Commercial Faculty met for a like object. On Monday, at eight o’clock, a .general council will be held to shape the future action of the University.
Visitors are flocking to the ruins from all sides, all with-«out exception bearing sentiments of condolence, which are -most sincerely appreciated. Mr. Bonney has taken several photographic views of the scene of destruction. Even •the greatest calamity has its humorous features. Mr. Bonney has tried for years to get a photograph of the aged □father Neyron, who was a surgeon with Napoleon at ’Waterloo, but Father Neyron always laughingly refused. ■Yesterday Mr. Bonney got his eye upon him when taking ra view of the ruins, and soon shouted his success, which •was the first intimation Father Neyron had of what had ^been done. Prof. Stace being asked if he had saved any-'•thing, with a comical smile pointed in silence to the shirt •the had on him.
Wednesday night was a night of toil and trouble. The tSecretary, by order of Very Rev. President Corby, tele-rgraphed to all the parents of the students, while the latter •were gathered into Washington Hall and slept upon the •ticks and bedclothes that had been saved. The fire engine 3iad been taken home in the evening, but the wind veering towards the south in the night threatened a new fire in the kitchen, and the engine was hastily sent for. No further -damage was done, however. The Are created intense ex-•citement among the thousands of friends of Notre Dame iin Chicago and throughout the county. An account of the disaster appeared at three o’clock in the Evening Jour--nal of Wednesday. An associated press dispatch was sent to all the papers in the United States entitled to receive it. Thursday morning’s Chicago Times gave over a column of -specials, the Tribune and Inter- Ocean nearly as many. Long specials were also sent by request to the New York Herald, •Cincinnati Enquirer, Indianapolis Journal and other pampers, showing how widespread is the interest taken in Notre Dame’s disaster. The Chicago Tribune says editori-•ally: “General regret and sympathy will be felt for the •destruction by fire of the University of Notre Dame, at South Bend, Ind. The institution has held a high posi--lion among the educational institutions of America, and
its loss is a genuine catastrophe, but one, we are glad to state, which will be promptly repaired. The loss sustained is estimated at $200,000, and the insurance 60.000 [the insurance is only about $45,000—N. D. Scholastic], but there will be no lack of funds to make up the difference and enable the prompt rebuilding of the University. Notre Dame will be herself again within a few months.” Such sentiments ef sympathy, and those we have received from the press and citizens of our own city, are most grateful at an hour like this.
Yes, Notre Dame will be herself again in a few months, with God’s help, the untiring toil of her children, and the aid of her generous friends who have* never failed her ia her hour of need. If there ever was a time when assistance was needed it is now. Notre Dame has so grown into the life of the country that it cannot but live and flourish, notwithstanding the fire. Like a vigorous tree which has been burned to the ground, the life is still strong in the great heart beneath, and it will spring from its ashes more glorious and beautiful than ever. A new building better" suited to its purposes, and equally substantial, elegant and commodious, will be immediately erected, well out front of the old building, giving more room, and separation from surrounding structures. This building will be ready before the first of September. Now, will our friends help us,—will all those who have drawn from the fountains of Notre Dame for the past twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five years, now show how well they love that "mother who has done so much for them ? Will those who love the young, and desire to see them brought up in the fear and love of God, help us in the great work we have to do this summer? Will those who seize every opportunity to do that which is most pleasing to Almighty God see in this disaster a call to them for help? Will the friends of Very Rev. Father Sorin, who has not even yet perhaps at the hour at which we write, heard of the destruction of this labor of his life—for he left last Monday morning in the brightest spirits for Europe,—will those who have seen him build up this institution in the wilderness, now come to aid him and his children in its restoration? We have the utmost confidence in the goodness of God, and believe that with His help, our own hard work and the aid of our friends we shall have as fine a college building, full of students, next September, as that which we lost on this terrible 23d of April.
A Card from Very Bev. President Corby.
To our neighbors and to the people of South Bend, we desire to render our most grateful acknowledgments for their sympathy and assistance in our calamity on Wednesday. In a particular manner are our thanks due to the press of the city and to the leading business men, for sympathy and aid, offered personally or by letter, but still more to the fire department for its generous and effective help in bringing the fire engine, which saved at least three important buildings for us, if not more. We do not dare to mention any names where we are indebted to so very many, but we desire all to know that we are most grateful to all_our generous friends.
•	W. CORBY, C. S. C., President
We publish no Roll of Honor this week. We can establish no distinction of merit between students. Their conduct during the critical hours when the old University of Notre Dame was fast becoming a heap of smoking ruins is beyond all praise. We have always spoken highly of the boys of ’79, and we thought that we fully appreciated their noble qualities, but the sad events of the past few days have been the means of revealing in them an affection for, and devotedness to, their Alma Mater which will render them dearer to her than any others of the many hundreds of whom she is already so justly proud. All, without exception, from the youngest Minim to the gravest Senior, showed that they possessed in abundance the metal of which heroes are made. While Seniors bravely scaled ladders, burst through doors and skylights, and faugbt the flames inch by inch on the roof, their efforts were nobly seconded by the Juniors in the long lines of bucket-carriers stretching from every water-tank to the dome; and even
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
53$
Minims rendered efficient service by assisting to save from destruction anything and everything which it lay within their power to carry from the rooms not yet reached by the flames. And when the sad conclusion was forced on them ‘	that the	main building was doomed, every effort was put
•	forth to	prevent the fire from spreading to the adjacent
;	houses, or at least to save as much valuable property as
I	possible from such as the flames were already destroying,
i	We will	mention no names, but let it suffice to say that
Notre Dame in her affliction is prouder of her brave and warm-hearted boys than in the hour of her greatest prosperity.
t	Deeply grateful are we also to the citizens of South Bend
>	for the aid extended and sympathy manifested by all
7	classes. As soon as Mr. F. G. Brown, General Manager of
the Western Union Telegraph Company in South Bend, received the telegram from Notre Dame giving the alarm, V	he at once rushed for horse and buggy in order to convey
?	the tidings to the chief of the fire department. As he
s	went along he gave the alarm throughout the city, urging
_•	immediate aid, and as soon as he had accomplished his
’	purpose he drove out in all haste to the College and
worked hard, with the others, to save as much as possible of the property. In the evening and throughout the night Mr. Brown was incessantly engaged in his office, sending off over five hundred telegrams for the students, announc-.	ing their safety to parents aud guardians, sending reports
to the newspapers, etc., and next day paid out with his own hands over §400 sent to take them home. Men of all parties, creeds and professions worked side by side with the priests, brothers and students. A State Senator’s zealous efforts nearly cost him his life; editors, lawyers, doctors, and city officials fought the flames shoulder to shoulder with the men from the shops; and what a lesson of Christian charity was taught by the two noble non-
.	Catholic clergymen who put forth such strenuous efforts
to prevent Science Hall and the Laboratory from falling a >	prey to the devouring element 1
The kind words and proffers of aid from the Register, '	Tribune, and Herald are known to the world, and will
never be forgotten at Notre Dame, and it gives us the deepest satisfaction to know that the press reflected the unanimous sentiment of our neighboring city. Expressions of sympathy and offers of assistance—never so much •	needed as at present—have been flowing in from all sides.
Our nearest neighbors—notably Messrs. Chirhart, Summers, Bulla and Chalfant—promptly placed their residences at the disposal of the College authorities. Ex-Mayor Miller was one of the first after the fire to put his services at the command of President Corby. A telegram from Washington announced that General Sherman would promptly supply army tents for the temporary accommodation of the students and faculty if necessary. Want of space and time prevents us from publishing in the present issue of the Scholastic more than a very few of the .	many letters and telegrams received from prominent
• citizens of South Bend and friends of Notre Dame in all parts of the country; and these few we print in the order in which they have reached us. Others will be published as soon as it is possible to strike off another issue:
■	South Bend, Ind., April 23,1879.
Father Corby, Notre Dame, Ind.
Very Rev. and Dear Sir:—I wish to express to you the sympathy of our Company in the great loss you and your associates have this day sustained in having your beautiful and renowned College destroyed by fire. We can sympathize with you the more as we have suffered twice from the same dread visitant. I look upon your loss not only as one to your community but to the country at large, and can only add that I trust the noble monument built by Very Rev. Father Sorin with . the help of yourself and associates will soon be rebuilt, and be as heretofore a credit to South Bend and the community at large.
I am, my dear sir, yours very respectfully,
Clem. Studebaker, President Studebaker Bros. AfanuPg. Co.
Oliver Chilled Plow Works, South Bend, April 23,1879.
i	Very Rev. Father Corby, President Notre Dame University,
i	Dear Sir I desire to tender you my sincere and hearty
।	sympathy in the calamity which has overtaken your institution
i	—the destruction by fire this morning of the principal buildings
of Notre Dame Univereity. If in the present emergency I can be of any service to you, I am at your command. ______
Very truly yours,	James Oliver.
South Bbnd, Ind., April 23,1879.
Very Rev. President Corby: Dear SirIf I can render you any temporal aid in this time of Notre Dame’s calamity, I will most cheerfully do what I can. Very respectfully yours,
John Brownfield.
37 Macalister Place, Chicago, April 23,1879. Very Rev. W. Corby, President University of Notre Dame.
Dear Sir I read with profound sorrow this evening the distressing news of the destruction by fire of your noble College, which, happily, was unattended by any casualty to human life.
The misfortune which has thus unexpectedly befallen you will arouse the sympathy of the entire country. Your loss is more than local in its significance, and its effects extend wherever Catholic education is regarded throughout the land. It is a national calamity. The name and the lame of your College is known from the Hudson to the Missouri, and its graduates are to be found in every city and town of the United States. These will all stand to you in yonr need, and the generous American public, who know the distinguished services you have rendered to the cause of education and good morals, will not be backward to second your efforts in rebuilding and restoring the material College, which, please God, you will speedily raise over the ruins of the one just destroyed.
I am sure that Chicago will respond promptly and generously to any appeal you make, and my poor services shall not be wanting if occasion serves to give them any value to you.
Very sincerely yours,	W. J. 0 nah an.
Cincinnati, April 24,1879.
Very Rev. A. Granger:—I sincerely sympathize with your loss, and would pay you a visit if not so unwell myself.
.	Bishop D wenger.
Chicago, April 23,1879.
To Very Rev. Father Corby and Prof. J. A. Lyons:—
If owing to your fire you should have destitute and deserving students or teachers that you desire to transfer to Watertown, we will be glad to furnish them free transportation on your order, and those who can pay we will carry at half regular rates.
W. H. Stennett.
South Bend, Ind„ April 24, 1879.
Rev. Father Maher : My Dear Sir :—The terrible calamity that has befallen your institution we fully appreciate, and feel that the loss is not yours alone, but of every citizen of our city. We feel it not only a duty but a privilege, with your permission, to credit Notre Dame with one hundred dollars as a contribution towards rebuilding.
Sincerely yours,
•	Geo. Wyman & Co.
Detroit, Mich., April 24, 1879.
Rev. W. Corby, C. 8. C., President Notre Dame, ind.
Rev. Sir:—I need not say that I regret very much to learn of the destruction of the University by tire. Would be glad to offer you any assistance in my power ; and to this end, should you wish to make any temporary arrangements, I offer yon the use of our columns gratis for announcements of the same.
I beg to remain yours very respectfully,
Wm. E. Savage,
Editor and Proprietor of Western Home Journal.
Chicago, April 24,1879.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Very Rev. and Dear Sir:—I am shocked to learn of the calamity which has befallen your noble institution. But while I lament your heavy losses, some of which I fear are irreparable, I most heartily congratulate you upon the results of your cool direction and control in the midst of those struggles with the flames and an excited crowd of students, whereby, by God’s blessing, you are able to record “no loss of life.” Even if the student who fell from a third-story window should not recover, the casualty list will be below what anyone would have venture to predict. [The injuries sustained by Mr. P. J. Dougherty are by no means serious. He is up and around, and in a few days will be as well and active as ever.—N. D. Scholastic.]
I have faith in you and the sacred Society that leads me to feel certain that Notre Dame will rise from its ashes in renewed beauty and strength. I enclose first impression of a short editorial upon your loss. Command me when I can be of service. We shall be glad to keep the public informed of your progressin this work of reconstruction.
Respectfully,	W. S. Jones.
Delphi, Ind., April 24.1879.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C.We are here giving the Forty Hours’ Devotion. We can jointly extend to you our most sincere sympathy in this severe trial. In such a loss please accept our heartfelt sympathy.
8. A. Oechtering, M. E. Campion.
J. E. Bleckman, * A. Messman, John Grogan.
536
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lancaster, Pa., 1879.
Vert Kev. Father Sorin:—Please accept heartfelt sympathy of your children and Lancaster friends.
Anthony Kaul.
(Pastor of St. Anthony’s Church.) [From the Hon. W. H. Calkins, M. C. J
House of Representatives, Washington, D. G.
April 25,1879
Dear Father Corby:—I want to add to the. already overcrowded letters you have doubtless received, my inexpressible grief at the great loss you and your coadjutors in particular, and the countrv in general, have met with in the destruction of the grand old College building at Notre Dame.
I trust the recuperative powers which you and your people are so justly celebrated for, will at once be brought to bear, and out ot the sacred ashes of the lost building another will at once be erected.
I am, veiy truly,	W .H. Calkins.
[From the Hon. A. 0. Dodge, LL. D.]
Burlington, Iowa, April 25,1879. President Corby, Notre Dame, Ind.
Very Rev. and Dear Sir:—How sudden, how terrible the calamity you have suffered!—not you, and your associates, alone, but the great Northwest. Seldom, if ever, have I heard deeper expressions of regret and sorrow than were uttered, by persons of all sects and parties, when the telegraph announced, day before yesterday: “Notre Dame is burning, and must inevitably be destroyed.”
If the ravages of the fell destroyer could have been checked and stayed by the wisht s and the prayers of thousands, then indeed would those roofs dedicated to learning, to art, and to religion, have been preserved. But it was ordered otherwise, and we must submit to the decree, how unwelcome soever it -may be to us.
In the subjoined, taken from the Hawk-Eye of to-day, your former students have spoken for themselves, and their resolutions contain an expression of the feelings of all those here who have ever sent children to your University, or who have come in contact with you or your associates when they visited Notre Dame, or when you visited our city.
My wife joins me in the heartfelt wish that Notre Dame may rise, phoenixlike, from its ashes, to even greater distinction and usefulness—if that were possible—than it heretofore attained. In deep sorrow for your great calamity, Mrs. Dodge unites with me in respect ful regards to our distinguished frien ds, Father Sorin, yourself, Father Granger and our other acquaintances, and in best wishes for the good health and prosperity of all your brotherhood
I am, most sincerely, your friend,
A. C. Dodge.
From, the Burlington “Hawk-Eye” of April 25.
Notre Dame.
RESOLUTIONS OF THE BURLINGTON STUDENTS.
A meeting of the resident post-graduates and former -students of the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, was •held in this city on yesterday, at which the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That we have received with feelings of profound sorrow ■the intelligence of the destruction bj fire on yesterday of the University of Notre Dame. Indiana.
Resolved, Tnat we offer the President, Very Rev. William Corby, ■the faculty ann their associates our deep and heartfelt sympathy in • the severe calamity wh ch has befallen them and the noble institution which through a series of years of toil and difficulty they had -reared
Resolved, That it is our most anxious wish that the University, of which we feel justly proud of having been former students, may be -speedily rebuilt, and continue the good work in which it has been so successfully engaged, and that it may regain the high character for usefulness which it has borne in the past, and that we will contribute, as far as lies in our power, to aid in this result.
Charles J. Dodge, W W. Dodge.
■	John J Flemming, John H. Gillespie,
H. H Hunt, Harby White, Charles Parsons, Harry Scott.
Very Rev. Father Corby. C. S. C.,	.
President of Notre Dame University.
Dear Father:—We desire to express our sincere sympathy in the great loss which you have sustained and the keen sorrow you must feel at the destruction of the noble University which time and association have rendered so dear to you. May onr Blessed Mother, who always watches over those who labor .zealously to make her name known and loved throughout the land, promote the success of your plans, in which her honor is always so earnestly sought. As a slight testimonial of our sympathy and regard, please accept the enclosed sum [f200.— Ed. Scholastic], which we are presumptuous enough to hope will lay the corner stone of the new University of Notre Dame. We trust it will soon gladden the'eyes and hearts of the many who are so deeply interested in its speedy election.
With the greatest esteem, and true sympathy,
The Pupils of St. Mart’s Academy.
[From the Hon. N. Mueller, M. C., of New York City.] House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.
’	April 26.1879.
John B. McGrath, Esq. : Dear SirYour favor of the 25tb inst. at hand. I am very sorry to hear of the terrible calamity that has befallen the University of Notre Dame, and its destruction by fire. . . .
Please convey to the Very Rev. Father Sorin my deep sympathy for him in the loss of the University buildings, and my best wishes for the future.
Very truly yours, N. Muller.
Cleveland, April 23,1879.
Prof. J. A. Lyons J. W. Carey, our Gen’l Ticket Agent, has te egraphed the Agent at South Bend to sell students' halffare tickets on proper identification.
Charles Paine,
Gen’l Sup’t L. S. & M. 8. R.R. Co.
- Lancaster, O., April 24,1879.
Very Rev. W. Corby : My Dear Sir:—A thousa d times as I glanced over the “Fire” items in the daily papers Ihave thought of Notre Dame, and felt a sense of relief and thankfulness to find that all was well there. But what shall I say of regret and sympathy for the calamity that has finally come upon you ? After all, it is some consolation that it is to be measured .by money only. You all live. The community built Notre Dame once: and the same disinterested and unremitting zeal and labor that reared it from the naked ground will cause it to rise from its ashes in grea er splendor, to pursue its wonted career of usefulness and blessing to the rising generation and to successive generations of Catholic youth. God grant it so!
With sentiments of most sincere sympathy, respect and esteem, I am, my dear sir, very truly your friend and servant,
P. B. Ewing.
Words of sympathy and encouragement like these speak volumes. With the blessing of God, the energetic efforts of a devoted community, and of students past and present, and the assistance of friends such as letters like the above show that Notre Dame possesses, we feel that there is no reason to give way to discouragement. No, we cannot bring ourselves to believe that the sun of No re Dame has set. Let the thousands of loving children whom she has sent into the world within the past quarter of a century— let the devoted friends whom she counts in all parts of the country but rally to her relief, and we have every reason te feel confident that the good work which she has been doing in the past will be continued in the not distant future.	.
Conferring Degrees on the Graduating Class.
As the annual Commencement exercises have been this year prevented from taking place by the fire, the faculty met on Thursday, April 24th, and decided to confer immediately and without examination the tollowing degrees on those students concerning whose graduation in June there would certainly be no question:
The degree of A. B. was conferred A. J. Hertzog, of Nachitoches, La.; L. J. Evers, Sing Sing, N. Y., and F. B. Devolo, of Salt Lake, Utah.
The degree of B. S. was conferred on M^J. McCue, of Greenwood, Ill.
The degree of LL. B. was conferred on S. T. Spalding, of Lebanon, Ky.; M. W. Bannon, of New Casel, Wis.; W. J. Murphy, of Hammond, D. C., and P. J. Dougherty, of Coldwate”, Iowa.
Medical certificates were awarded to G. P. Cassidy, of Equality Ill.; W. Connolly, of Cresco, Iowa; and Joseph Krost, of Crown Point, Ind. ‘
Commercial Diplomas were granted to S. P. Terry, Rochester, Ind.; J. Hermann, Des Moines, Iowa; T. Hale, Banker Hill, Ill.; E. Dempsey, Dysart, la.; W. J. McCarthy, Booneville, Mo.; J. G. Brady, Tuscaloosa, Ala.; A. S. Rock, Lincoln, Ill.; F. Grever, Cincinnati, O.; J. M. Byrne, Newark, N. J.; T. Summers, Notre Dame, Ind.; J. Q. Johnson, Noire Dame, Ind.; J. F. Arentz, Fort Wayne, Ind.; K. L. Scanlan, Chicago; J. M. Mug, Lafayette, Ind.; T. Conlan, Neenah, Wis.; P. B. Larkin, Loogootee, Ind.; R P. Mayer, Cleveland, O., and E. J. Maley, Notre Dame, Ind.
The above are the only degrees as yet definitely agreed upon. There are others on which the faculty have come to-no'conclusion, but which will be published in due time in the College Catalogue.