Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Oisoe quasi semper vlcturus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
► ~ --------- .
Volume X.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 2, 1877.	Number 39.
How Shall We Live?*
Religious Orders,
The rolling seasons sweep along In silent, rapid, ceaseless song, Like music from the heavenly spheres, Unheard nor known by mortal ears.
But in the glowing dreams of Fancy’s hours, The favored spirit joins celestial powers, And mingles in the golden visions seen Afar beyond where mortal senses glean.
Creation’s hidden melodies
Are free to him as Sammer’s breeze, And order meets his raptured eye Where dire confusion seemed to lie.
The broken months that formed a chance-wrought chain Are seen in circling beauty meet again— Each one a link of loveliness so fair—
So fit, that beauty never seemed but there;
The golden ones, the russet bright, The glittering glance of crystal white, The pleasing rays of emerald mild, In turn delight sweet Fancy’s child.
Borne by the rapid change we glide away, Till passing time but seems a passing day, And beauty fades before the careless eye, And sounds of joy are born to faint and die.
The gifted spirit sees in tears
The wasted wealth of golden years, The powers of pure, immortal mind To thoughtless rounds of earth confined.
Shall we aspire to feel the lofty thought Entrance the soul with pleasures never wrought By common joys ? Or shall we walk the round Of meaner minds where trifling toys abound ?
The spirits of the great and good Who with the beautiful have stood, And breathed on earth of heavenly air, Bid us walk forth to meet them there.
Our natures, Godlike formed to look above, Bid us arise to seek a nobler love— Bid us advance to seek the perfect Good, And while on earth come nearer to our God.
* This poem first appeared in “The Progress,” a manuscript • journal edited by the students of Notre Dame some seventeen wears ago.
—Nature’s nobleman is everywhere—in town and out of town, gloved and rough-banded, rich and poor. Prejudice against a lord because he is a lord, is losing a chance of finding a good fellow, as much as prejudice against a plowman because he is a plowman.
When at the present age of the world we look around us and see so many religious orders spread throughout the length and breadth of almost every land, under different titles and yet of one religion, professing one and the same Faith and bending in humble submission to the one supreme visible head, the Vicar of Christ, all united by one communion, are we not forced, as it were, to admire the beauty and harmony of the Church of God? Those who have the happiness to be included in this common bond admire with pleasure this concord and harmony, while those who are not under it rise up and ask how such variety is possible ? are they not- all Catholics, and, if this is the case, all work for the same end, why give them different names or appellations? That they are all Catholics—that they work for the same end, and that they are in concord and harmony with the Church of Christ cannot be readily understood by them, therefore we will give a short explanation for their benefit.
All the orders existing in the Church work for one and the same end, under different names inasmuch as they have different rules and constitutions, according as their respective founders thought fit; different habits, exercises of devotion, etc., some wholly separated from the world and given to prayer and contemplation, others having for their object the holy and meritorious work of preaching and teaching, others again giving themselves up to the care of the sick, and who may be found wherever charity can be exercised,—all forming a beautiful circle of love and charity towards mankind—doing everything for the greater glory of God and the salvation of their neighbor and themselves. That they may secure their own salvation we find, indeed, all of them adopting and putting in practice what our Lord recommends, namely: poverty by which they renounce all claim to the things of this world, having nothing at their own disposal; chastity, by which they renounce all carnal pleasure; and obedience, by which they give up their own free will to follow that of God, whom they recognize in the person of their lawful superior. That those are the most salutary means by which man may work out his salvation the Holy Scripture leaves no doubt. In St. Matthew, xix, 21, we read: “If thou wilt be perfect, go, sell what thou hast, and give to the poor; and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow Me.” And in the 19th chapter and 12th verse of the same Evangelist we read that chastity is not less pleasing. “ There are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven’s sake. He that can receive it, let him receive it.” And since obedience is better than sacrifice, must it not be also pleasing to the Almighty, as by it man
610
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
truly conquers himself and gains the hardest and greatest victory in overcoming his own will and self-love?
There is a sort of mystery that presents itself to those unacquainted with spiritual life, hence they say; How can a man know that he has such a calling? that he can perform such heroic acts of virtue? that he can embrace the religious life at any time and without a call from God? To this question the words of St. Paul (Acts ix, 6) are evidently in place: “Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?" He must have recourse to Almighty God in prayer, to his spiritual director for salutary advice, and weigh well and study deeply his own individual self, his own heart. After acting thus, if he find within himself a strong desire to lead such a life, and if this desire continue for a long time, and seeing that he is not actuated by any ambitious motive or self-love, but by the grace of God, he will have sufficient reason to believe that there are good grounds for that holy calling.
We have said from no ambitious motive or self-love, for a person that-would enter religion in such dispositions would be acting contrary to the will of God and His holy Church, and consequently bringing about his own destruction. For the motives of all persons entering religion should be to do penance for their sins and to avoid the dangers and allurements of this sinful world, as well as to make a true sacrifice of themselves to Almighty God by the practice of vows and aiming after religious perfection. All this is in strict conformity to the life of the Precursor of our Lord, St. John the Baptist in the wilderness, and the early Christians, who, as we find recorded by St. Luke, had all things in common, as also to those mentioned by Eusebius during the first three centuries whom he calls asceta But these, however, cannot be called members of regular monasteries, for we do not find monasteries proper until the beginning of the fourth century, when St. Paul the first hermit betook himself into the desert of Thebais and there passed ninety years in communion with God. Thither he went to avoid the persecution under the Emperor Decius, which was begun in A.D. 289. About 271 St. Anthony, a man of noble parentage and possessing a large fortune, resigned all he had in order that he might devote his life to the service of God in the religious state. When he first began this kind of life he found others too living in the same manner, but contiguous to towns and villages. This he considered not altogether in accordance with his ideas of monastic life, as he thought that the further he would be from the world the nearer he would be to God; so he retired into the desert, where great multitudes followed him, and hence he is generally considered the father of monastic life. Shortly after, St. Pachomius became the director of many religious, and the first founder of the renowned Congregation of Tabenne; he gave to his children in Christ a rule which he had received from an angel. The monastic life having thus originated, the populated deserts of Egypt and Thebais became not less renowned for the sanctity than for the number of those who there sought a retired life. Towards the end of the fourth century, when Ru-finus visited those countries, he found in the city of Oxy-rincus alone ten thousand religious men and twenty thousand nuns.
From Egypt this kind of life, so agreeable to the principles of the Gospel and the spirit of Christianity, quickly spread itself through all parts of the world inhabited by Christians. St. Hilarion, about the beginning of the fourth century, having learned of St. Anthony’s way of living,
began to practice the like in Palestine, which was in a short space of time replenished with religious of both sexes; while in Syria and Mesopotamia St. James and St. Julian Sabas propagated a similar mode of life. Pontus and Cappadocia bad also the honor of being inhabited by religious men, among whom we find St. Basil and Gregory . Nazianzen. The rule composed by the former for his religious is professed to the present day by the monks of Poland, Greece, Russia, and Italy. Nor was the western part of the Church behind at this age, for we are told the monastic life had already gained a considerable footing there in the fourth century. At this time, according to the statement of St. Augustine, there was a monastery near the walls of Milan, under the care of St. Ambrose; several in Rome, and one near Treves, in Germany, where two courtiers on reading the life of SL Anthony consecrated themselves to God. And this illustrious Saint himself, after his conversion, upon his return to Africa propagated there the same kind of life.
Towards the close of the fourth century the most famous monastery of all France was that .of the Isle of Lerins, founded by St. Honoratus, afterwards Bishop of Arles, and from which France received many great saints and illustrious prelates. The British isles were not without this kind of life at a very early period. The monastery of Ban -got in Wales had within its walls about two thousand monks. St. Patrick, who established Christianity in Ireland, did not leave his faithful children without this monastic discipline. That country was afterwards fruitful in sainted sons and daughters, together with numerous martyrs to the Faith, and gave to the nations of Europe, such men as St. Columbanus, SuGall and St. Columbkill. By the latter saint was founded the famous Abbey of Dearmach, and, subsequently, having passed over to Scotland, he founded there the Abbey of the Isle of Hy. From these two monasteries many others both in Ireland and Scotland took their origin. Speaking of the institute of St. Columbkill, Venerable Bede in his “Ecclesiastical History of the English Church” says: “ Of whose life and words, some writings are said to be preserved by his disciples. But whatsoever he was himself, this we know of him for certain, that he has left successors renowned for much continency, the love of God, and regular observance.” The Faith implanted by St. Patrick in the Irish people was not soon to vanish before the winter’s gale, but was to stand the wreck of ages and the fury of the devil himself; so that at the present day it is just as strong as ever, and will, we hope ever remain so.
The monastic life, so pleasing to God, was not soon to vanish from the earth, but continues to the present day, and is not in anywise yielding to any thing like old age, as is evident from the number of religious orders that exist within the Church at the present time. As regards the many orders in the East, there are those of St. Basil and St. Anthony. In the West, St. Augustine, with many others, entered into a religious society in 390, where he remained for about three years previous to his going to Hippo, where he was ordained priest and afterwards became Bishop. His own house he then changed into a monastery. ‘ where he lived in common with his clergy, and to which institute the Canon Regulars of St. Augustine owe their origin, who have flourished ever since in the Church of God, branching out into many Congregations, as those of St. Victor, St. John Lateran, etc. It was from this order that Luther apostatized in the sixteenth century,—the fa-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
611
moas Father of Protestantism, in whom is truly verified the words of Revelations xii, 4,—drawing with him the third part of the stars of heaven, and casting them to the earth.
St. Benedict, towards the end of the fifth century, retired from the world, and after leading for many years a life of penance, mortification and self-denial, founded twelve monasteries in Latiutn, and the thirteenth at Monte Cas-sino, in the kingdom of Naples, where he died in the odor of sanctity in the sixth century. The rule of St. Benedict was embraced by almost all the religious of the West until about the beginning of the twelfth century. The glorious life of St. Benedict was written by St. Gregory the Great in his Dialogues. The Cluniacenses sprung from the rule of St. Benedict, and were so called from their first abbey of Cluny in France; their founder was St. Odo, a man imbued with the spirit of charity and remarkable for the practice of the most eminent virtues. He instituted his order in the tenth century, and it flourished for a long time in great sanctity. St. Romuald instituted the Camaidulenses in the end of the tenth century; they flourish to this day, eminent for a high degree of sanctity, and from whom the Church receives much edification. The monks of Valombrosa were instituted in the eleventh century, by St. John Gualbert, receiving their name from the place of their first institution. In this century were also founded the Cistercians, by St. Robert, abbot of Molesme, in France. The Cistercian monks need no commendation; indeed they are in themselves something marvellous. The successor of St. Robert was St. Albertus, to whom succeeded St. Stephen Harding, an Englishman by birth, who had the good fortune or happiness of receiving the great St. Bernard into his Society, by whose example not less than by his preaching and miracles this order was wonderfully- promulgated; from him the religious are commonly called Bernardines. The famous institute of La Trappe, in France, is a branch of this order, which has renewed in this our day the austerities of the primitive religious. These monks are now called Trappists, from the Abbey of La Trappe; they have lately established themselves in this country, where they have two establishments, one in Iowa, the other in Kentucky. The Trappists have been for a long time established in Ireland, and very few there are who have not heard of the famous monastery of Mount Melleray, in the County Waterford. Other religious professing the rule of St. Benedict are the Silvesterines, the Grandimontenses, the Celestines, the Olivetans, etc. The Carthusians were founded towards the end of the eleventh century, by St. Bruno, who with a few companions retired from the world and in the desert mountain of Carthusia laid the foundation of his order. The Carthusians.preserve to this day their primitive fervor, observing perpetual silence, perpetual abstinence, wearing the hair shirt and practising other austerities too numerous to mention. About the year 1120, St. Norbert, who had exchanged his high position in life for one of voluntary poverty, founded an order of Canon Regulars called after him Norbertines, or Premonstratenses, from Premontre in France. About this time also was instituted in France the Order of the Blessed Trinity, for the redemption of captives, .by St. John de Matha and St. Felix de Valois, two holy priests who on account of their sanctity were chosen by God for this charitable and meritorious work. For this same end another was instituted in Spain by St. Peter Nolascus, called the Order of Our Lady of Mercy. The White Friars, as the Carmelites are sometimes called,
especially in England, were brought to Europe about the year 1200; they quickly spread themselves through all parts of Christendom, and received the sanction they so well deserved. These were originally hermits, living on Mount Carmel, hence their name. They were assembled together by Aimeric, Patriarch of Antioch, when the Christians were in possession of Syria and the Holy Land, and received their rule from Albert, Patriarch of Jerusalem. Their rule having in time been mitigated, it was renewed in its primitive austerity by St. Teresa in the sixteenth century, and the friars and nuns that followed her reform are called Barefoot Carmelites. The Orders of St. Dominic and Sc. Francis were instituted respectively by St Dominic and St. Francis, the former for preaching the Gospel to infidels and sinners, which it has done with wonderful success. These two orders have furnished the Church of Christ with several Popes, many Cardinals, ecclesiastical writers, etc., as well as with many Saints. The children of St. Francis increased with a wonderful rapidity, so much so that when he held a chapter at Assisium no less than five thousand religious were there assembled. The principal branches of this order are the Conventuals, the Observants and the Capuchins. The nuns of St. Francis are called generally Poor Clares, from St. Clare, the first abbess, who received the habit from St. Francis himself. The nuns of the Third Order of St. Francis are called Penitents.
Thus we see the providence of God in raising up such holy souls for the welfare of His Church and the general benefit, of mankind. O^her orders were founded between the thirteenth and sixteenth centuries, such as the Servites of Mary; the Crucigeri; the Jesuates, by St. John Colom-bini; the Bridgetines, by St. Bridget;-the Hierouymites, by Pedro Ferdinando; the Minims, by St. Francis of Paula, etc. In the sixteenth century several hew orders sprang up, as the Theatines, instituted by St. CajetanusThe-anaeus; and the Jesuits, or Society of Jesus, founded by St. Ignatius of Loyola. This order has done remarkable service in the Church, and was raised up by God at a time when it was just needed to defend the Faith against heretics and propagate it amongst infidels. The sainted men who have illustrated this order could not be surpassed as a learned body, and their saintly successors are to this day a terror to sceptics, heretics, and all those who rise up against the See of Peter. They are spread all over the world, and, as a mark of their divine character, are the first to be attacked by the enemies of the Church, the enemies of God. The nuns of the Visitation of the Blessed Virgin were instituted by St. Francis de Sales, Bishop of Geneva, at the beginning of the seventeenth century. Besides these there are several regular congregations of clergy living in common, some under the tie of religious vows, and others not; as the Oratorians, instituted by St. Philip Neri, the Fathers of the Christian Doctrine, the Redemptorists, or Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and the Lazarists, or Congregation of the Mission. To these may be added several communities of men, such as the Brothers of the Christian Schools, etc., and of women, such as the Sisters of Charity, the Sisters of the Presentation of the B. V. M., the Sisters of Mercy, the Sisters of St. Joseph, Little Sisters of the Poor, Sisters of the Holy Cross, and others.	*
The foregoing short account of the chief orders that exist in the Church will suffice to show in the first place that as they have flourished, we may say, from the time of
612
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the Apostles to our own day, there is nothing new or strange about them, but on the contrary, form what may be termed a defensive breastwork against the inroads of infidelity and schism, and are in reality the pillars of the Church; in the second place they have the sanction of the Church, the repository, the pillar and the ground of truth, which is a sufficient proof against all malicious and sectarian slanders with which they may be assailed. We have said a sufficient proof—nay more, it' is an infallible proof, one that can never be gainsaid by the enemies of religion. For when the Church speaks, Christ speaks, and when Christ speaks God speaks, hence the foolishness of those who strive to ridicule them. In the next place they are in perfect accord with the Church, professing the same faith as all other Catholics, subject to one and the same head, and closely united together in the bonds of charity, brotherly love and communion. What beauty 1 What harmony is there not found in the Church of God 1	J.
Freemasonry.
BY M. B. DBAPIEB.
[Concluded.]
So far we have seen the origin of Masonry, and how, from being a charitable institution, it soon degenerated into one of a social and political character. That it was, formerly, instituted for charitable purposes, no one will deny; for we read that the disciples of Steinbach went through Europe building churches and refusing to take any more for their labor than was sufficient for their sustenance. . We have also seen that Masonry has been censured and condemned by the Church, and that it has been the policy of nearly every Government to suppress it. Why was this, you may ask? We will endeavor to answer this question as briefly as possible. Masonry pretends to have for its object not merely the improvement of the minds of its members by instructing them in the arts and sciences, but to make better their hearts by enforcing the precepts of religion and morality; it pretends, as a certain writer says, to be in possession of a secret to make men better and happier than Christ, His Apostles, and His Church can make them, a pretension so monstrous that it would of itself be sufficient to brand an association with the disapprobation of all good men. The Catholic Church, in the first place, condemns this society because it is secret. Freemasonry imposes secret oaths, which is contrary to the teaching of Scripture, which says: “ Our speech should be yea, yea, and nay, nay?’; and that it is not lawful to swear. Again, in Masonry, as in every secret society, the individual responsibility of its members is taken away. It is a well known fact that the great majority of the association, up to the “Knights of the White Eagle,” or as they are again called, “Kadosch," are in perfect ignorance of its real objects. As to these we can have no other clue than that given by those who are said to have been themselves Masons, and who have given what they aver to be its prin ciples and mode of action. We give these for what they are worth, leaving the defence, if any can be made, to those who have the means of knowing differently. Barruel, than whom none was ever better versed in Freemasonry, having been himself a Mason, makes mention of one who had advanced to the grade of Rosicrucians, one grade lower than the Knights of the White Eagle, but who, until he was initiated into the grade of Kadosch, or Knights of the
White Eagle, was said to be completely stunned and hot. rifled by the demoniacal disclosures poured into his ears. Professor Robinson, of Edinburgh, who had been a member of the Masonic Society, in speaking of the pernicious effects of Freemasonry, says: “If there be a necessity for secrecy, the purpose of the association is either frivolous or it is selfish. Now, in either case the danger of such secret assemblies is manifest. Mere frivolity can never seriously occupy men come to age. And, accordingly, we see in eveiy corner of Europe where Freemasonry is established, the lodges have become seed-beds of mischief. I believe that no ordinary brother will say that the occupations in the lodges are anything better than frivolous, very frivolous indeed. The distribution of charity needs be no secret ; and it is but a very small part of the employment of the meeting.”* He then goes on to say that as frivolity cannot furnish sufficient occupation to the mind, it is likely that they will carry on affairs in the meetings requiring strict concealment. “When this is the case,” he says, “ self-interest alone must prompt and rule, and now there is no length that some men will not go when they think themselves in no danger of detection and punishment-The whole proceedings of the secret societies of Freemasons on the Continent (and, I im authorized- to say, of some lodges in Britain) have taken one turn, and this turn is perfectly natural. In all countries there are men of licentious morals............And where can the sentiments or schemes of discontented men find such safe utterance or probable support as in a secret society?” This is the judgment of a man who professes to be intimately acquainted with the workings of Masonry, and who apparently had no selfish or sinister motives in pronouncing such a judgment. How comes it, then, that Masonry has so many estimable followers? This is easily accounted for. The machinery of Masonry, as we have seen, is conducted with such skill that the members of a lower grade know nothing about the secrets of a higher grade. The order is divided into thirty-three grades, the principal degrees of which are six—the grade of Apprentice, of Fellow craft, of Master, of Elect, of Rosicrucian, and of Kadosch. Those in the lower grades are but the blind instruments of those of the higher grades, and you cannot persuade them that the society is of any other than a purely philanthropic character;" for the fact is, they are as ignorant of its real object as are those who never belonged to it. Here is the oath which Barruel says was administered to him: “My brother, are you prepared to execute every command you may receive from the Grand Master, even should contrary orders be laid on you by king or emperor, or any other ruler whatever?” Again says Barruel (p. 222): “ The grade of Kadosch is the soul of Freemasonry, and the final object of its plots is the reintroduction of absolute liberty and equality through the destruction of all royalty and the abrogation of all religious worship.” We have seen, then, that the real object of Masonry is not the moral improvement of its members; and it is but a year since a certain Mr. Frothingham gave utterance, in the Masonic hall, New York city, to this blasphemy: “Tori Paine has keyed my moral being up to a higher note than the Jesus of Nazareth.” Besides is it not evident, since we sometimes see men of such depraved nature occupying the most prominent places in the highest grades, that this society is not what it pretends to be?
* Proofs of a Conspiracy, etc. By Professor Robinson, pp. 464r-5. Dublin: 1798.
THE NOT'RE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	613
;	Mirabeau, Robespierre, Condorcet, Guillotine, Volney,
,	“Philippe Egalite,” etc., were all members of the highest
■	grades. Louis Blanc, a Freemason, proves that if Masonry
'	was not the cause it at least contributed greatly in bringing
about the French Revolution.* When the Communists attempted, in 1871, to bring Paris under their control, they .	were openly and officially aided by the Freemasons. It is
stated in The Secret Warfare of Freemasonry, p. 172, that in a procession of Communists, numbering five thousand T	men, one hundred and fifty lodges were represented; it
was the Grand Master, Maillet, who bore the red flag, and be declared, in a speech that met with enthusiastic ap plause, the Commune to be “the antitype of Solomon’s temple and the corner stone of the social fabric about to be raised by the efforts of the craft.” This is not, however, in the least surprising; for in The Latomia, Vol. XII, p. r	237, an organ of the craft, it is declared that Socialism,
;	Freemasonry and Communism have a common origin.
;	The ceremonies in the higher degrees of Masonry are,
•	in every way, calculated to harden the heart, and to sup-
press broad feelings of humanity. The allegorical story is related to the initiated; he is first led into the lodge, which is hung round with black. In the centre of the room is a coffin, and around this the brethren stand. The Master then relates the fable. Want of space will not permit more than a brief outline of it. Adoniram was appointed, by Solomon, paymaster at the building of the Temple. The number of workmen was three thousand. In order, then, that he might be able to give each one his due, Adoniram .	made three divisions of them—apprentices, fellow-crafts-
'	men, and masters. To distinguish one class from the other,
he gave to each a peculiar word, signs and grips. Three of the fellow-craftsmen, desiring to know the Master’s word, and by this means get his salary, lay in wait for Adoniram as he came to shut the gates of the temple. They endeavored to make him reveal to them the word: this he refused to do; and, as a consequence, they killed him. After the fable is related, the person initiated is in-formed that the object of the degree is to recover the lost 1	word, and to avenge the death of Adoniram. He is then
)	led into a dark room, blindfolded, and before him is placed
■	a manikin which is stuffed with bladders of blood—be is
j	then called upon to avenge the death of Adoniram, and he
|	at once plunges the poniard into the breast of the supposed
.	assassin. “ What a damning proof,” says Barruel, “ do we
f	not find in those trials where the candidate is taught to
strike with his poniard the pretended assassin of his grand master? In common with the Templars, it is on Philip le Bel that they wreak their vengeance; and in every other king the sect behold the pretended assassin.f Want of space will not permit us to say much more.
We cannot better conclude than by inserting a portion of Mr. Thurlow Weed’s letter to the New York Herald: “Those in this country who respect religion, law, and the F1	peace of society should not be imposed upon by the aspect
b	of Freemasonry here. The principles and modes of acting
of the society are those we have described. The application i	of them depends wholly on time, place and circumstances.
। •	The ordinary observer sees nothing in the members of the
i I	craft here but a number of inoffensive individuals, who
belong to a soi-disant benevolent association which, by means of secret signs, enables them to get out of the
j	* History of the French Revolution, Vol. ii, c. 3.
£	f Barruel, t. ii, pp. 391-393. Eng. Trans.
clutches of the law, procure employment and office, and other advantages not enjoyed by their fellow-citizens. But theu the innocent rank and file are the dead weight which the society employs, on occasion, to aid in compassing its ulterior designs. Here there are no civil or religious institutions which stand in their way, and their mode of action is to sap and mine the morals of the community, on which society rests, and with which it must perish. Of what it is capable, if it seems needful to compassing its ends, anyone may understand by the fiendish murder of William Morgan. This murder was decided on at a lodgemeeting directed by Freemason officials, in pursuance of the rules of the craft, and was perpetrated by Freemasons bearing a respectable character, who had never before been guilty of a criminal action, who were known, yet were never punished nor even tried, but died a natural death, and who do not appear to have experienced any loss of reputation for their foul deed.”
The Kensington Catholic Public School.
The Kensington Catholic Public School was founded in February, 1873, by the Right Rev. Mgr. Capel. It began with 5 boys, and work was carried on at first in Mgr. Capel’s own house. There are now 70 boys in attendance; *. a site of six acres and a half of ground has been purchased, and there is a temporary wooden building containing class-rooms, chapel, etc.
The object of the Founder of the Catholic Public School is to provide for the sons of Catholic gentlemen advantages equal to those enjoyed by Protestant boys at Eton. The old Catholic system of education, with its admirable combination of school and family life, has been adopted; the boys live either with their parents, or in the houses of masters, each master receiving only a limited number, so that the idea of family life may be carried out. The masters are graduates of English or foreign Universities, or men who have been specially trained for the work of teaching. All the modern methods of imparting knowledge are in use. The French and German languages are taught by natives.
Six forms are now organized, and a special department has been formed for the purpose of preparing youths for army and civil service examinations. Boys are received at the Catholic Public School from the age of nine years and can remain until they are seventeen or eighteen. Cricket and football are encouraged at the school, and the boys are drilled by a sergeant The present wooden building is about to be replaced by a handsome and permanent structure. The new school will be calculated to receive 400 boys, aud adjoining it will be a beautiful chapel, the gift of a generous friend.
Scientific Notes.
—J. Scott Bowerbank, well known for his studies of the lower forms of marine life, especially the sponges, died at Hastings (England), on the 9th of March, in his eightieth year.
—Mr. William Gossage, F. C. S., the inventor of several important processes in practical chemistry, died at Earlsleigh, Bowdon, Cheshire, April 9, in his seventy-eighth year.
—Gay-Lussac, the great French physicist and chemist, was born in 1778; his centenary will be celebrated by a
614
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
festival and the erection of a statue either at Limoges or Paris.
—A. new theory of the cause of auroras has been started, Gronemann asserting that it is a play of electric light on cosmic dust, clouds of which are encountered by the earth in its annual passage round the sun.
—We return thanks to Appleton & Co. for the Popular Science Monthly Supplement. The Supplement is not behind the Monthly itself, for its articles are first class, both from a scientific and literary standpoint.
—Dr. Elliot Cowes, U. S. Army, the distinguished naturalist of the Hayden Surveys, and one of the most eminent ornithologists in America, has just been elected Professor of Anatomy in the National Medical College at Washington.	,
—The solar protuberances are being daily mapped by Tacchini of Palermo, Secchi of Rome, Christie and Maunder of Greenwich, and others, while daily photographs of the sun are taken at Greenwich, Paris, Moscow, Toulouse, Kasan, South Kensington and Melbourne; and at many other observatories the spots are observed every day.
—The Commissioners selected by Congress to investigate and report on the best means of destroying and preventing the ravages of the locusts have issued their first “Bulletin” under the auspices of the Interior Department. The present number has exclusive reference to the destruction of the young insects, and the next one will be on the Natural History and the habits of the species.
—An interesting discovery of animal remains was recently made in a cave near Santander, in Northern Spain. The discoverers, Messrs. O’Keilly and Sullivan, describe the cavern as an enlarged joint or rock fissure, into which the entire carcasses, or else the Jiving animals, had been precipitated. Prof. A. Leith Adams has identified among these remains numerous portions, including teeth, of Ele-phas primigenius, which is important as furnishing the first instance ot the occurrence of that animal m Spain.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Count Moltke’s book, “ Letters from Russia,” has'appeared in Berlin.
—A superb portrait by Greunze of the Marchioness of Chauveliu lately sold in Paris for $4,000.
—Seven thousand copies of Gen. Pleasanton’s “Blue Glass,” and their readers, have been sold.
—Mme. Arabella Goddard’s first recital in Paris called forth the hearty applause of the French critics.
—A volume of “ Sir John Bowring’s Recollections,” edited by Lewin B. Bowring, is in press in England.
—A Berlin inventor has produced a machine for turning the leaves of music by a movement of the performer’s foot.
—Trinity College, Dublin, is said to have the harp that was played upon by King Brian Boroihm in the tenth century.
—Mr. Bagehot’s articles in The London Economist on the depreciation of silver are to be reprinted in volume form.
—Jefferson Davis is said to be busy at his autobiographical work, the first volume of which will probably be ready in the fall.
—Rev. Father C. P. Maes, of Monroe, Mich., has almost ready for press a life of the Very Rev. Charles Nerinckx, founder of the Order of Loretto.
—Messrs. Henry S. King & Co , of London, are about to publish the four discourses recently delivered by Cardinal Manning on the Papal Allocution.
—The Prince of Wales declines to preside at the Caxton banquet, in London, although he did not fail to accept a like honor from the saloon keepers a few days ago.
—Petrella, the composer, who died within an ace of starvation, is now to be accorded a bust executed by the sculptor Valle, and a monument at the cemetery of Palermo.
—A translation of “ La Gaviota” (The Sea Gull), one of the best novels by Fernan Caballero, the eminent Spanish woman novelist who died last month, has been issued in London.
—D. & J. Sadlier & Co. will publish, in conjunction with D. Appleton & Co., Miss Walworth’s book, “An Old World as seen through Young Eyes; or, Travels Round the World.”
—P. O’Shea published on the first of May, “Beside the Western Sea," a collection of poems by Harriet M. Skidmore (Alarie), with an introduction by Archbishop Ale-many of San Francisco.
—The historian Curtius, who is now in Athens, has written to Dr. Schliemann denying that he has made any statement intended to cast doubt upon the antiquity of the objects unearthed at Mycenae.
—Two more volumes of Emerson’s essays have been added to the vest-pocket series; one containing the essays on books, art, and eloquence, and the other those on success, greatness, and immortality.
—The massive monument ordered by the Russian Government to be erected over the graves of the twenty-eight prisoners of war who died in Lewes Prison, during the Crimean war, has just been completed, inspected, and approved.
—“ La Marjolaine” has just, been brought out at the Alcazar theatre in Brussels. The new work of M. Leeocq was not so successful as expected. It appeared heavy at times, and certain crudities in the dialogue were not to the taste of the public.
—The English critics regret that Herr Wagner, who is now in London, and who is such a stickler for national music, national drama, and nationality iu everything, should not have made some concessions to the English musical taste, language, and nationality.
—Mr. W. D. Howells has been for some time maturing plans for a library of select autobiogrophy. He has now entered into arrangements with Messrs. J. B. Osgood & Co., the publisher of Mr. Howells’ own works, and will at once begin preparing for the press several volumes, to be issued next autumn.
—Benziger Brothers have in preparation “A Manual of Ordination,” arranged by Rev. James S. M. Lynch, of the Troy Theological Seminary, and a “Sunday-school Teachers’ Manual,” by Rev. A. A Lambing, of Pittsburgh. They will also issue in a few weeks a new revised edition of Father Koning’s “Theologia Moralis.”
—Richard Wagner has a bulky MS. autobiography which he keeps carefully stowed away somewhere in his library for the benefit of the world when he shall be no more among the living. He is a devoted admirer of Shakspeare, and sometimes when he has guests declaims for their benefit an act from some one of the master’s dramas.
—The London Echo sounds a warning to literary men, founded on the early deaths of many brilliant and promising scholars. The younger race of writers are described as men of excitable intellectual temperament—careless of rest, drinking strong coffee and tea, turning their nights into days, smoking themselves into excitement, and paying the penalty of unnatural lives by untimely death.
—The Baron Liszt is thus described: “ Tall as the poplar swayed by the breeze, long and diaphanous; a broad and high forehead, eyes lustrous in their dusky sockets, a straight and strong nose, arched eyebrows, almost always contracted; masculine features, a large and imperious mouth, a swarthy complexion, and those wrinkles that denote a powerful organization—in a word, an ascetic face, framed with long gray hair coming down to his collar.”
—A painting which gives evidence of being an authentic original portrait of the redoubtable Puritan Captain, Miles Standish, has been discovered in a Boston picture store by Capt. A. M. Harrison of Plymouth. It is painted upon wood, and bears the Captain’s name on the upper part. Artists and connoisseurs have inspected it, and pronounce it an original painting by Jansen, a distinguished English painter, and it is supposed that it was painted in 1625, when Standish went to England as agent of the Plymouth colony.
—William H. C. Hosmer, the poet, died at Avon, May 23. Mr. Hosmer was born in Avon, N. Y., on May 25, 1814. He was graduated from the University of Vermont in 1841, and subsequently succeeded John Young as Master in Chancery
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
615
in New York. Having made a study of Indian life in Wisconsin and Florida for several years, he printed several poems relating to Indian character and traditions, of which the best known are “Legends of the Senecas,” “The Fall of Tecumseh,” and the “Warriors of the Genesee.” In 1854 he published two volumes of poems including “Indian Traditions and Songs,” “The Months,” and “Bird Notes.” In 1854 he moved to New York city and took an office in the Custom House. Mr. Hosmer was converted to the Catholic faith sometime ago.
—A second volume of the Records of the English Province of the Society of Jesus is shortly to appear under the editorship of Mr. Henry Foley, S. J. It will contain a history of the labors and sufferings of the Jesuits in the London district during the times of persecution, with lives of Southwell, the Jesuit poet, FF. Morse, Page, Holland, and other Fathers of the Society, as well as of several of the leading Catholic laymen who were connected with the Jesuits. Mr. Foley is publishing for the first time a large number of documents from the Public Record Office, the collection of MSS. at Stonyhurst and elsewhere illustrating the history of the Stuart period. A.nong other incidents which he notices are the fall of the French Ambassador’s house in 1623, when more than one hundred persons perished under the ruins: the seizure of the Jesuits’ College in 1628, and the consequent proceedings in Parliament, and the terrible plague of 1626-7. We are glad to see that his first volume, containing the history of the Lancashire district, which was at first limited to private circulation, has lately been published by Messrs. Burns & Oates. Mr. Foley is acting wisely in giving to the public at large the results’of his indefatigable research.
Books and Periodicals.
—The contents of the June number of Church's Musical Visitor are: I, A Talk with Wagner and Liszt; II, Vocal Development; III, Feuilleton from Chicago; IV, London Letter from Mr. Palmer; V, Felix Mendelssohn Bar-tholdy; VI, Normal Corner; VII, The Sign; VIII, An Organ for the Music Hall; IX, Musical Hopper; X, Buds, Blossoms and Birds; XI, Theodore Thomas’ Enterprise; XII, Editorial; XIII, Editor’s Notes; XIV, Answers to " Correspondents; XV. A Chapter on Intervals; XVI, Montreal Letter; XVII, Music in Boston; XVIII, New York Letter; XIX, Transposition; XX, Items Here and There; XXI, A Tempo; XXII, Conventions: XXIII, Personal; XXIV, Publishers’ Department; XXV, Music—Am I Unforgiven Still, (Song and Chorus); Largo Arranged for Piano; When You’ll be Far From Me; Cabinet Organ Gallop; Fear Thou Not, (Anthem).
Life of the Vex. Clement Mary Hofbauer, Priest of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer. By a Member of the Order of-Mercy, Authoress of “The Life of Catharine McAuley,” “Life of St. Alphonsus,” “Glimpses of Pleasant Homes,” “Angel-Dreams,” “Happy Hours of Childhood,” “ By the Seaside,” etc , etc. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, 9 Barclay Street. 1877.
The Life of Ven. Clement Mary Hofbauer, by a member of the Order of Mercy, has been received, and proves to be up to the high standard of excellence expected from the talented authoress of “ Catharine McAuley,” “ Life of St. Alponsus, and a number of other works which enrich our Catholic libraries. It is doubly welcome at this season, when the demand for suitable premium books is so great, not only for its convenient size, 317 pages, 12 mo. but especially for the attractive style in which it is got up, and for which the Catholic Publication Society is noted. As to the subject of the book, our limited space forbids us to speak at length; his virtues have justly ranked him with such men as the Cure d’Ars and Father Young, the saints of our century. To American Catholics, Father Hoffbauer should be most especially dear as being the spiritual Father of a band of zealous missionaries who have labored in almost every part of the country with a fervor and zeal which may be easily recognized as the heritage of their founder, the first German Redemptorist. We hope some of our young friends who are so fortunate as to get a premium, and still more, to get this particular work, will make it the subject of an essay which will be worthy of a place in our pages.
—We have received the Popular Science Monthly for June and are happy to say that among all the magazines devoted to science there is not one equal to the Monthly. Glancing over the list of contributors, we see the reason why the Monthly is so attractive and scientific; it has the most renowned scientific men of the day as regular or occasional contributors—such as Prof. Asa Gray, Prof; Huxley, Prof. Hitchcock, Prof. S. Lockwood, President McCosh, St. George Mivart, Prof. Young, Dr. Carpenter, R. Proctor, Herbert Spencer, Prof. Tyndall, and President A. D. White, whose attainments command respect. With such a list of contributors it is easy for the Popular Science Monthly to be the science monthly of America. The June number opens with a fine engraving of Alfred Russel Wallace and a short sketch of the English naturalist. The article “On the Evolution of the Family” by Herbert Spencer shows that the author possesses a deep mind, one which can search into the most obscure matters of science and especially of Sociology. Prof. Samuel Lockwood’ sar-ticles are always our favorite study, and his article on “Our American Owls” has for us a particular attraction. His are truly contributions to popular science. The article on “Initiatory Forces,” by George Iles, is very instructive and shows how through a small and insignificant force a great one is started. Wbat grander conception can be had than that which opens Mr. Iles’s article: “Last September, when the operations for the removal of the obstructions of Hell Gate, in the harbor of New York, had culminated in the completion of the great labyrinth of tunnels, and the storing therein of a larger quantity of explosives than had ever been used at once before, General Newton, the chief engineer, at the appointed moment told his little child to gently push a telegraph-key. She did so; her tiny impulse closed the circuit in many hundred galvanic cells; and these, by inflaming the metallic wires in contact with the explosives, freed in an instant the tremendous power which had been slumbering under the peaceful waters. The article on “ Mesmerism, Odylism, Table-turning and Spiritualism,” continued by William Carpenter, clears that question more and more, showing that the power exercised in those things is only imaginary. A very practically instructive article “On the Distribution of Standard Time in the United States” is contributed by E. Holden. The other articles are highly commendable for their instructive character: “Matter and Mind,” by F. White, is a well-written article, whilst the contribution on “Gar-Pikes, Old and Young,” by Prof. Wilder, is of ichthyological importance. “Relation of the Air to the House we live in” is very useful ; the “ Transmission of Excitations in Lensory Nerves ” is of great importance towards clearing that controverted question among physiologists; Correspondence, Editor’s Table, Literary Notices, Popular Miscellany, Notes, finish up the June number and show the taste and skill of the compiler, E. L. Youmans. We can recommend the Popular Science Montidy to every discreete student of nature, sure that he will greatly profit by it both in a literary and scientific way.
—Of Tom Moore’s children we read: His eldest son, for jvhom, by dint of great sacrifices, he purchased a company in the English army, lost his commission through extravagance, and died in Algeria, in the French.service. The second lost his health in India, and came home to Sloperton to die. His only daughter, while in the act of kissing her hand to him as she was going out to dine at Lord Lansdowne’s, fell over the balusters and was killed. Thus perished all his hopes, and he died at last in his own house in the arms of his faithful wife, having outlived even his own brilliant intellect	'
—At the head of all nations stand the men of Kentucky, of whom the mean height is 68.68 inches; then follow the men of Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, California, Nevada, Indiana, and West Virginia, whose average exceeds 68 inches; Illinois averages 67.84, Pennsylvania 67.5, and Connecticut 66.6. Taking the whole United States, we average 67.7, thus less than our Indians, who average 67.93 inches. After us follow the Norwegians, Scotch, Canadians, Swedes Irish, Danes, etc. England is the eleventh on the list, and averages 66.57, while the German average is 66.54. The French are eighteenth, averaging 66.3, while Spanish and Portuguese stand at the bottom of the list, averaging 65.6 and 65.4 respectively.
i
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame. June 2, 1877.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame. -
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should taue it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana
The Golden Jubilee.
All over the world will there be rejoicing to-morrow. In Rome, the spiritual ruler and mistress of the world, thousands upon thousands of devout pilgrims from all parts of the universe will celebrate with ceremony and pomp the golden jubilee of the Episcopate of His Holiness, Pope Pius the Ninth. And not only in that city will there be rejoicings. In the solemn cathedrals and in the humble village churches, amid the crowded cities of the Old and New Worlds, in the gorges of the Andes and far away on the lonely isles of the Pacific, hymns and canticles of praise will ascend to Heaven because of the honored years given to God’s faithful servant, Pius the Great. In every congregation will the virtues, the sufferings and the heroic life of the Holy Father be spoken of by his children; prayers to God will be offered up for him; and in many places processions, with all the pomp and circumstance that enthusiasm for the heroic courage of God’s Vicar can suggest, will be made in order to testify the feelings of veneration and love that Catholics, the world over, have for the foremost man of his age.
The Pope is now a prisoner within his palace walls, but he still has subjects more loyal in their devotion to him as their spiritual ruler than has the robber of his estates and the kingly persecutor of the Church in Italy. As in the time of his exile to Gaeta, the Catholic faithful rally to his aid. As at that time, while the enemies of the Church prophesied that the end of the Papacy had come, the devout children of the Church throughout the world came to his aid with contributions, so also they now fill his coffers, to be expended in charity. As. at that time in the great mass of the people of Italy there existed a sincere loyalty to the throne and person of the Pope, and a profound conviction of those virtues which adorned his character as a man, a ruler and a priest, so also we now find the same feeling animating their hearts. And as at
that time he came out victorious over his foes and reascended the throne of his predecessors, so we firmly believe he will again triumph, for no power has ever waged successful war against the Papacy. For the time, the powers of earth have appeared to conquer, but time in its course has righted all things; and while the opposing dynasties have passed away, the Papacy remained, and will remain until that hour when the angel of the Lord shall descend from heaven to announce that time has ceased to be.	-
A Retrospect.
In glancing over a copy of the Catholic Almanac for the year 1833, the changes twixt then and now struck us very forcibly. In the year 1838 there were but six Catholic periodicals published in the United States. The first according to priority was the United States Catholic Miscellany, published in Charleston, South Carolina, the first number of which was issued on the 2d of June, 1822, and which it was stated had been contiuued with some intermission until that year at a pecuniary loss to the diocese of at least $2,500. It was further stated that during the year 1837 it had for the first time nearly defrayed its actual expenses, but the entire of the literary and publishing labor outside the printing office had been gratuitously given during a period of fifteen years. This was pretty hard on the Catholics of that day; we hope that nowadays Catholic scribes, male and female, are treated with more consideration at the hands of publishers and the reading public. We fear, however, that exceptions could be occasionally found in both cases. This is not right, as literary and other menial drudgery is the hardest kind of drudgery, and should therefore be as liberally compensated as possible. An education suitable to qualify one for such pursuits is very expensive, and entails much labor in its attainment, which are additional claims to remuneration. The other periodicals of that day were the Truth-Teller, published weekly in New York, and which has passed away; the Ca-'holic Telegraph of Cincinnati, still published; the Catholic Herald of Philadelphia, which expired at a ripe old age, several years ago ; the Catholic Advocate, published in Bardstown, Ky., now issued in Louisville, and Her Wah-reits Freund, a German paper, still published in Cincinnati by the Benziger Brothers. There were in 1838 no illustrated Catholic papers, no magazines, no reviews—only six weekly papers, and they languishing for support. Now there are 32 Catholic weeklies, 1 of them illustrated, 3 magazines ably edited and well supported, and 1 Review that would do credit to any age or country.
In 1838 there was but one Archbishop in the United States, Most Rev. Samuel Eccleston, D. D., Archbishop of Baltimore; besides which there were but 15 Bishops and 478 priests in the whole United States. Now we have 1 Cardinal, 11 Archbishops, 57 Bishops, and 5,297 priests. There were in 1838 but 324churches, 341 stations, 16 ecclesiastical institutes, 171 clerical students, 16 colleges for young men, 31 female religious institutes, 45 female academies and 69 charitable institutions. In 1877 we have 5,292 churches, 2,768 chapels and stations, 34 Theological seminaries, 1,217 ecclesiastical students, 62 colleges, 540 female academies and select schools, 1,587 parochial schools, 219 asylums, 95 hospitals, and a Catholic population of about 6,000,000 against a Catholic population in 1838 of about 1,300,000.
In 1776 there was but a proportion of one- Catholic to
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	617
every 120 of the total population of the United States, in 1838 there was about 1 to every 14, in 1876 we had 1 to every 6 of the total population. Since 1838 we have an increase of 54 Bishops, 4,119 Priests, 4,968 Churches, 47 Colleges, 502 Female Academies, and 275 Asylums and Hospitals—or an average increase each year during the last 38 years of 1 8-19 in Bishops, 127 priests, 130 churches, 12 chapels and stations, 1 9-33 in colleges, 13 8-38 female academies, and 8 5-19 charitable, institutes, without taking into consideration the increased capacities of churches, colleges, academies and charitable institutes, which are at least double now what they were then.
In looking over the list of ecclesiastics in 1839 one is perhaps still more forcibly struck with the great changes that have taken place in these 38 years. The Archdiocese of Baltimore, the primatial See, of course takes the lead, both by priority and rank. It was erected into a Bishopric in 1789, by Pius VI, and elevated to an Archbishopric by Pius VII in 1808. Of the list of clergy there in 1838 we find but three now living that we know of, Rev. Charles I. White, D. D., at present pastor of St. Matthew’s Church, Washington, D. C., a ripe scholar and an eloquent preacher, Rev. James Curley, S. J., now Vice-President of Georgetown College and then one of the faculty of that institution, and Rev. John McElroy, S. J., in 1838 President of St. John’s Literary Institution, Frederick, Md., and now, we believe, a resident of the Novitiate at that place. This venerable patriarch has of late been afflicted with blindness, but, though blind, and feeble with age, he still has the consolation of being able to offer up the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass. Of the Archdiocese of Philadelpha, the second in order, created in 1808, there are still living Most Rev. Archbishop Peter R. Kenrick, now Archbishop of St. Louis, Mo., Rev. Edward Sourin, S. J., and Rev. Peter Lemke, the colaborer of Rev. Prince Gallitzin in the Pennsylvania missions. Archbishop Kenrick was then Vicar-General of the diocese of Philadelphia and Superior of the Theological Seminary there; Rev. Father Sourin was pastor of Christ Church, Westchester, Pa., and attended the Church of the Assumption of Our Blessed Lady at Pleasant Mills, New Jersey, and other missions; Father Lemke was pastor of St. Patrick’s, Ebensburg, and Rev. Prince Demetrius A. Gallitzin pastor of St. Michael’s, Loretto,—all these clergymen, of course, having also to attend various other missions or stations throughout the diocese. Of the Diocese of New York, created in 1808, we can give no record than that his Eminence Cardinal McCloskey was then pastor at the Cathedral in New York city; we are not acquainted with any others of the surviving clergy, if there be any. Of the Diocese of Boston, created in 1808, and including at that time the States of Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire,- Rhode Island, and Connecticut, Rev. Father Fitton, at present pastor of the Church of the Most Holy Redeemer, Boston, is the only survivor with whom we are acquainted; he was in 1838 pastor at Worcester, Mass., and President of St. James’s Seminary at that place.
Detroit is the next diocese on the list, although Cincinnati is twelve years older, being established, the latter in 1821, the former in 1833. Of the clergymen in the diocese of Detroit in 1838 we know of but one now living, Very Rev. Father Kundig, now Vicar General of the Diocese of Milwaukee, Wis. He was then located at the Cathedral of St. Ann, in Detroit, but afterwards removed to the place where Milwaukee now stands, where he erected the first log chapel, it being then but a small settlement. Milwaukee
is now a bishopric, and the city has 120,000 inhabitants. Truly Father Kundig has reason to admire the wonders that have been wrought around him in this comparatively short space of time. We might remark in passing that the Very Rev. Father has been a priest in three dioceses without having ever received an exeat from a Bishop. He was first a priest in the diocese of Cincinnati, and when the diocese of Detroit was erected he became subject to the Bishop of that city. Afterwards, stationed as he was at Milwaukee when that diocese was formed, he became by the division of the diocese of Detroit a priest of the Milwaukee diocese. Of the diocese of Cincinnati, the present Archbishop, Most Rev. John B. Purcell, D. D., was then Bishop, with Very Rev. Father Badin, the founder of Notre Dame, as his Vicar-General. The present Archbishop of Milwaukee, Most Rev. John M. Henni, D. D., was then a simple priest, and pastor of Holy Trinity Church in Cincinnati. Right Rev. H. D. Yuncker, afterwards Bishop of Alton, was pastor of St. Mary’s Church, Chillicothe, and attended Columbus occasionally, which then had no church of its own, although now it is the seat of a flourishing bishopric. Rev. F. X. Tschenhenss, C. SS. R., who died lately after celebrating his golden jubilee, was then pastor at McKutcbinsville and visited Tiffin as a station. Rev. Josue M. Young, afterwards Bishop of Erie, was Prefect of Studies at the Cincinnati Athenaeum, of which the present Vicar-General of the diocese, Very Rev. Edward Purcell, was Principal. We believe that Most Rev. Archbishop Purcell, now in the 77th year of his age, the 51st of his priesthood, and the 44th of his episcopate, has ordained more priests and consecrated more Bishops than any living Prelate. He was made Archbishop in 1850, 27 years ago, and received the pallium from the hands of the Holy Father himself, in the Pope’s private chapel in Rome. This venerable Patriarch of the American Hierarchy— “ the Hughes of the West,” as O’Kane Murray styles him— has done an immense amount of labor in the vineyard of the Lord during his long and eventful lifetime, and we hope he will yet survive many years to see it-still further advanced. A few weeks ago a canard was sent to a New York paper by some irresponsible busybody stating that the Archbishop was seriously ill, and obituary notices were being prepared in consequence—but, like the false rumors about the Holy Father’s health, it had no foundation in fact. The Archbishop, we are glad to learn, is in the best of health, and promises, to all appearance, many years more of apostolic labor.
As to the remainder of the then existing dioceses our very limited space will allow no special remarks now, but we cannot pass that of Vincennes, in which Notre Dame was then located, without a few notes. It took within its bounds the States of Indiana and part of Illinois, including Chicago. The saintly Rt. Rev. Simon G. Brute, was Bishop, being consecrated in 1834. He died in; 1839, and was succeeded by one of his colaborers, Rt. Rev. Celestine de la Hailandiere. Of the clergy then laboring in the diocese, we know of only four now living, Rt. Rev. Maurice de St. Palais, D. D., now Bishop of Vincennes Very Rev. Julian Benoit, the present Vicar-General of the diocese of Fort Wayne, then pastor of St. Mary’s, Perry Co.; Rev. Irenaeus St. Cyr, one of the two missionaries then at Chicago, and now residing in the diocese of St. Louis, and Rev. Louis J. Neyron, then pastor at New Albany and the Knobs, with Jefferson, Charleston, Corydon, Salem, etc., as missions or stations, and now residing at Notre Dame,
618
TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J
.There was no pastor at St. Mary’s of the Lake (Notre Dame) or South Beud in 1838, Rev. Louis Deseilles having left this for a better world ou the 26th of September, 1837 He died at the old log chapel bn the banks of St. Mary’s or the lower lake here, surrounded by his affectionate Indians, and his remains are deposited in the vault of the new Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. He was sue ceeded in 1839 by Rev. Benjamin Petit, who afterwards left here to accompany the Pottawatomie Indians when driven west of the Mississippi. He died shortly after, in St. Louis, a martyr to his spirit of zeal and charity, but his body was brought back to Notre Dame, where it reposes with that of his saintly predecessor in the vault of the new church. As to Rev. Father Neyron he is still hale and hearty, and teaches his class at the College every day. Rev. Father Neyron was before his ordination a surgeon in t he army of the great Napoleon, was taken prisoner at Waterloo, but regained his liberty-on condition, that he would give his services to the wounded, who were very numerous. Afterwards becoming a priest, he eventually came to the United States, where he has done good and effective service in various missions in Indiana.
Personal.
—	Frank Smiley (Commercial), of ’76, prospers in Kewa nee, Ill.
—	James Spillard (Commercial), of ’72, is studying law in Elgin, Ill.
—	Peter Kennedy (Commercial), of ’76, lives in Cannells burg, Ind.
—	Philip Corbett (Commercial), of ’76, is doing well in Anderson, Ind.
—	John T. Foley (Commercial), of ’76, is thriving in Nashville, Tenn.
—	Leo McOsker (Commercial), of ’72, is in the hardware business in Elgin,-Ill.
—	G. M. Webb (Commercial), of ’70, is in the grocery business in Peru, Ind.
—	M. Egan (Commercial), of ’75, is in the drygoods business in Grand Rapids, Mich.
John J. Griffin (Commercial), of ’66, is in the wholesale liquor business in La Fayette, Ind.
—	Frank McOsker (Commercial), of ’73, is in the office of the Western News Co., Chicago, Ill.
—	Rev. President Golovin was quite ill at the beginning of the week. He is now much better.
—	Very Rev. Father General returned last Monday from his trip to the. South. He is in the enjoyment of good health.
— We have been favored with a copy of the Elgin (Ill.) Advocate, of May 26, in whicn there is a long account of a mission preached in the Catholic church of that city. The account was written by Daniel E. Maloney, of’74.
—We are pained to announce the death of Rev. Father Campbell, of Lacon, Ill. Father Campbell was well known here, and his death will be regretted by a large circle of friends. He was the uncle of Joseph Campbell, of’76.	-
—We are in receipt of a complimentary letter from Rt. Rev. Monsignor Capel, D. D., of the Catholic University College, Kensington, London, W. We have heard with pleasure from other sources that the Rt. Rev. Doctor will come to the United States in the interest of the Catholic University, of which he is the Rector. We hope he may find it convenient to visit Notre Dame.
—The Burlington (Iowa) Gazette, under the head of “ County Politics,” thus speaks of Charles J. Dodge, of ’74: “ Among the younger men mentioned as possible aspirants for the office [Legislature] is Charles J. Dodge, Esq., one of the most prominent of the younger class of lawyers of our city. Although but two years in the practice, he has placed himself in the front of his profession, and has a professional good name equalled only by the excellence of his private character. Being a son of the old war-horse, Hon. A. C. Dodge, his democracy cannot be questioned.’’ -
—OfWm.Kelly (Commercial), of’73, the Chicago Times has the following notice: “A Youthful Genius.—Muskegon possesses a youthful genius of seventeen summers, who promises to make his mark in the world some of these days. His name is Wm. Kelly. Last season he designed and built several sailing yachts, and now he has nearly completed without assistance a beautiful steam yacht twentyeight feet long, with seven feet beam. The little craft is to have a six-inch square engine, also built by this young genius. The boiler is the only thing about her that has been furnished by other parties, and this is of steel. The new yacht is nearly ready for launching.” During his sojourn at Notre Dame, Master Kelly’s amiable disposition won for him the esteem of Prefects and Professors. His talent for drawing was of a high order, gaining for him the prize in his class for that study. The same specimens executed here obtained for him the premium at the Michigan State Fair the year following.
*	Local Items.
—The May devotions are now over.
—The games for the championship of the College are closed.	.
—The chimes now delight us every day with a number of pretty airs.
—Every one coming to the Commencement exercises will be welcome.	.
—The canine species will be well represented in the first play at the coming exhibition.
—The Star of the East Baseball Club succeeds this year in carrying off the championship.
—Every one should prepare for the examinations. The time intervening is becoming short.
—Many of the arches erected on the Feast of Corpus Christi were quite tasty and beautiful.
—By oversight the name of Corporal W. Jones was omitted on the committee of arrangements of the Cadets’ picnic.
—The Minims return their sincere thanks to Very Rev. Father General for the box of delicious oranges sent by him to them.
—Last Monday evening there was one of the most extensive and brilliant displays of aurora borealis ever seen at Notre Dame.
—Every one should look out that he may pass a good examination. It will be his own fault if a young man comes out the lowest in his class.
—The Star of the East Baseball Club defeated the Juanita Club at baseball last week to the tune of 17 to 11. The Star of the East is now the champion club.
—We are told that at the end of the exercises on Commencement Day the students will sing “Home, Sweet Home,” with music by the Band as accompaniment.
—To judge from appearances, there will be more people attending the Commencement exercises this year than in any former year. We hope that such will be the case.
—We understand that the old members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association residing in Chicago intend having a grand reunion at the Matteson House sometime during vacation.
—There were a great many strangers here on Corpus Christi. Notre Dame is one of the few places in the United States where the processions on this beautiful Feast can be held out-doors.
—The Examinations will begin on the 17th of this month. The Graduating Class will be examined on the 10th, and continued until the matter laid down in their course shall have been thoroughly gone over.
—The 31st regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Sunday evening, May 27th. Declamations were delivered by D. O’Leary and T. H. Schlink. W. McGorrisk read an essay.
—The Entertainment given at St. Mary’s Academy last Wednesday was beautfully gotten up. The parts assigned
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
619
to the young ladies were filled by all with much credit. A full report of the Exhibition will be given in our next number.
—Vespers to-morrow are, as far as the Capitulum, of St. Mary Magdalene of Pazzi, page 152 of the Vespeial; from the Capitulum, of St. Francis Caracciolo, page 153, with Commemorations of St. Mary Magdalene of Pazzi and the second Sunday after Pentecost.
—Who is to receive the highest percent, at the coming examination? This question should interest every student here at Notre Dame. And again, another question should be attended to—viz.: Which class will gain the highest percent.? We leave to the students the answers.
—The members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association will next Tuesday plant a society-tree. As a mark of respect to the memory of their first Director, the tree will be planted at the grave of the late Rev. N. H. Gillespie. The Society will hereafter plant a tree every year.
—On looking over the programme of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, published in this week’s issue of the Scholastic, we notice that an entirely new set of plays, speeches and songs are introduced. The Cecilians evidently intend giving their friends a treat, and we hope they will find their wishes realized to the full.
—We visited the Juniors’ study-hall during the week, and found all their plants in bloom; a beautiful bouquet of flowers graced the prefect’s rostrum, and the canary was chirping one of his sweetest lays. We were struck with the order of things in general, and are satisfied that the boys having charge of the study-hall do their work well.
—We would like to have the following numbers of the Scholastic, viz.: Vol. I, No. 43; Vol. II, No. 42; Vol. Ill, No, 21; Vol. IV, No. 25; Vol. V, Nos. 42 and 43; Vol. VI, No. 42; Vol VII, No. 44; Vol. VIII, Nos. 39 and 40; and Vol. IX, No. 43. Anyone having any of these copies to spare who will please let us have them, will confer a great favor upon a subscriber who wishes to complete a set of the Scholastic.
—At the beginning of the month of May we spoke of Masters McGrath, Hanson, Lindberg, Kauffman, J. and T. Nelson volunteering to supply the small altars in St. Edward’s and St. Patrick’s dormitories with flowers. We have been informed that they persevered in the good work until the end, sacrificing their evening recreations to cull wild flowers, Bros. Peter and Robert occasionally presenting them with flowers from the garden.
—The Curator of the Museum most gratefully acknowledges the receipt of a superb specimen, donated to the Cabinet of Natural History by Br. Camillus, of Trenton, N. J. It is a large full-grown peacock, artistically mounted on a beautiful rustic stand, and is in the estimation of every one who has seen it a magnificent specimen of taxidermic skill. This, however, is only one of many things Br. Camillus has secured for the Museum, for which those in charge are under many obligations.
—As may be seen from the programme, printed this day, the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association will play “ Major Andre ” next Tuesday evening. The Entertainment is got up in honor of the Pope’s Golden Jubilee, which occurs on the 3rd. For local reasons the celebration has been deferred until the evening of the 5th, when doubtless the St. Cecilians will give us one of their old-time Exhibitions. As this will be the first presentation of the play of “ Major Andre ” at Notre Dame, it will certainly attract a large audience.
—We were glad to see the South Bend Societies turning out so strong, and making such a fine appearance in the procession on Corpus Christi. There were the St. Stanislaus’ Society, of St. Stanislaus Church (Polish), in regalia, 84 members; the St. Casimir’s Society, from the same church, in variegated regalia, 75 members; the St. Joseph’s Total Abstinence and Benevolent Society, of St. Patrick’s Church, in green regalia, 33 members; the St. Joseph’s Catholic Benevolent Society, of Sr. Joseph’s Church, Lowell, in blue regalia, 53 members; in all, 245.
—We call attention to the card of E. M. Brown, of ’65, Attorney at Law, Cleveland, Ohio, which appears in this number of the Scholastic. Mr. Brown was for several years city attorney of Cleveland, and might have obtained
other officers in the gift of the people but wisely gave up political aspirations in order that he might devote all his attention to his large practice. As a lawyer, he stands at the head of the young members of the Cleveland bar, and can be relied on as conscientious, able and industrious. Business of a legal nature in Northern Ohio cannot be entrusted to better hands.
—The following is the list of the champion baseball clubs as far as we can learn, viz.: 1866, Juanita; ’67, the Juanita; ’68, the Juanita; ’69, the Enterprise; ’70, the Star of the West; ’71, the Star of the West; ’72, the Star of the West; ’73, the Excelsior; '74, the Star of the East; ’75 ,the Juanita; '76, the Juanita, and ’77, the Star of the East. Of the clubs which have held the whip-pennant, the Enterprise and the Star of the West are no longer in existence. The latter Club we believe was merged into the Excelsior Club. The Juanita Club held the championship five years, the Star of the West three years, and the Star of the East two.
—The practice of standard overtures is one of the best means of forming a good taste by our instruniental performers, and we are glad to see that the number of those who are ambitious enough to choose overtures for their examination pieces is scarcely behind that of former years. We give a list of the violinists who are rehearsing complete overtures in the original keys: M. Kauffman, “Der Frei-schutz,” Weber; A. Sievers, “Oberon,” Weber; J. A. Burger, “Don Juan,” Weber; J. P. McHugh, “ Zampa,” Herold; J. Rothert, “Iphigenia in Aulis,” Gluck; A. K. Schmidt, “Barber of Seville,” Rossini; P. Skahill, “Tancred,” Rossini; W. Taulby, “Norma,” Bellini; C. Peltier, “Mason and Locksmith,” Auber; W. Chapoton (Flute), “ Caliph de Bagdad,” Boieldieu.
—The following is a full record of the games played by the contending nines for championship this session:
April 10th—Juanita vs. Star of the East, 29 to 27.
“ 15th—Juanita vs. Excelsiors, 10 to 7.
“ 18th—Excelsior vs. Star of the East, 11 to 8.
“ 20th—Star of the East vs. Excelsior, 31 to 12.
“ 22d—Juanita vs. Atlantic, 37 to 15.
“ 25th—Star of the East vs. Excelsior, 27 to 13.
May 2d—Atlantic vs. Juanita, 54 to 18.
“ 10th—Juanita vs. Star of the East, 49 to 16.
“ 13th=-Juanita vs. Atlantic, 23 to 18.
“ 16th—Star of the East vs. Juanita, 11 to 10.
“ 20th—Atlantic vs. Star of the East (5 innings), 8 to 3.
“ 25th—Star of the East vs. Juanita, 17 to 11.
—The Junior Cadets’ picnic was a complete success. When we were informed that Br. Paul was to superintend the work we knew that “Jfeplus ultra” would be the exclamation of all who would have the pleasure of attending. They left the College at 8% a. m., headed by the University Band, and arrived at “ Johnson’s Woods” one half an hour afterwards. The distance from the College is about one mile, and the location is all that could be desired for picnic grounds. The Prefects feel very grateful to Mr. Johnson for his kindness in allowing them the use of his grove. The luxuries of the season were dealt out abundantly at different times during the day. The day was spent pleasantly by all, students and invited guests, of whom there were a large number. The Band discoursed sweet music. The boys danced, sang and enjoyed themselves as only Juniors can.
—We desire that our friends send us copies of newspapers containing notices of old students, etc. Sometimes we receive notice in an indirect manner of the election of old Notre Dame students to office when we had no knowledge of their being candidates. Don’t be afraid, boys, but let us see all the complimentary notices of you that are published. Remember that you have many old friends taking the Scholastic who desire to know all that may be said of you, more especially if it be said in praise. We wish we could impress upon the minds of.all that the Scholastic is the students’ paper, not the students of this or of last year, but the students of every year, and that the great desire of the editor is to give information concerning all students who have studied here at Notre Dame. It is because such is the the object of the Scholastic that we endeavor to extend its circulation among old students. We wish to perpetuate the friendships of school boy days, and make all old students, no matter of what year, have a feeling ot fellowship
620
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
among each other. The subscription* price of the Scholastic is less than that of any other College paper, viz, $1.50 for 42 numbers, and every old student should make it a point of honor to subscribe.
—The festival which of all others brings out the enthusiasm of Catholics is the Feast of Corpus Christi, instituted by the Church to testify sentiments of love and adoration to the Saviour of the world,- and to make public reparation for the blasphemies uttered against Him not only by the sacrilegious who despoil the altars of God, but also by the indifferent and unworthy Catholics who refuse to profit by the graces offered them in the worthy reception of the Sacrament of Love. At Notre Dame, as usual, the day was celebrated with all solemnity. The ceremonies of the Church were fully' observed; and the procession, especially, was a manifestation of the belief in the Real Presence. Two repositories were made, one on the Novitiate grounds and the other at the Scholasticate. The good taste which was displayed by those charged with the erection of these repositories is worthy of the highest praise. Nothing was gaudy, and the beauty of ornaments, the designs followed, and the whole surroundings were such as to fill all with admiration. The arches erected were very prettily festooned with gay ribbons and entwined with evergreens. In the morning, Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Father General, assisted by Rev. C. Kelly as deacon and Rev. T. E. Walsh as subdeaeon. In the afternoon, after Vespers were sung and a short sermon preached, the procession formed in the usual manner. The members of the Archconfraternity were in regalia and made a fine display, as did also the four societies from Lowell and South Bend. It has been frequently remarked that one of the most beautiful sights one can see is the procession making its way around the lake, close to the water’s edge; the long line of societies, students, clergy, and members of the Congregation, with varied colors, and banners and flags, are reproduced in the waters of the lake, and two processions are seen to move along. This is a sight worth looking at, and deserves all that has been said of it.
—The following is the programme of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association’s nineteenth annual summer exercises, to take place on the evening of Tuesday, June Sth, this year in honor of the Golden Jubilee of our Holy
Father Pope Pius IX:
PART FIRST.
Grand Introductory March.............N. D. U. Band
Song and Chorus—“Jubilee Hymn of Pope Pius IX " .......................................Choral Union
Address of the Evening.................A. J. Burger
Declamation—“ Italy in 1847”.......F. W. Cavanaugh
Song and Chorus—“Angel of Peace”.......Choral Union
Address (Complimentary)..............A. Widdicombe
Music....................................Orchestra
Declamation—“ The Blue and the Grey ”.F. McGrath Prologue..............................Ralph J. Golsen
Music...................................’Brass	Band
PART SECOND. THE MIDNIGHT INTRUDER.
Cast of Characters:
Mr. Aspen Timid........................M.	Kauffman
Zeb. Ferguson......................Nattie Vannamee
Kock-Kneed Sam..................:......John Phelan
Dark-Lantern Bill................George	V. Sampson
The Intelligent Canine.............Signor	Figurante
Statue of Atlas.........................Plato M. C.
Bob (Majordomo)......................James Hagerty
German Declamation.....................P. Schnurrer
Spanish Declamation........................J.	Perea
Music....................................Orchestra
PART THIRD.
MAJOR JOHN ANDRE.
An Historical Drama in Five Acts, by the Rev. P. Leo Haid, 0. S. B., and played for the first time at Notre
Dame.	.
Dramatis Persona:
Gen. George Washington.................0.	J. Clarke
“ Greene...............................S. D. Ryan
“ Lafayette..........................G. P. Cassidy
“ St. Clair............................Jno. Mosal
“ Putnam........................  F.	W. Cavanaugh
“ Hamilton...........................G. Crawford
“ Knox...............................John Phelan
“ Steuben................................C. Faxon
“ Parsons................................C. Walsh
Col. Clinton...........................  C.	V. Larkin
“ Jameson..............................G. Sampson
Major Talmage..........................  P.	J. Golsen
Paulding.......1	(.......N. P. Mayer
Van Wert.......[-Andre’s capturers-].....W. F. Hake Williams.................................. )	( ... .Otto Lindberg
Sir Henry Clinton ....................A. Widdicombe
Major John Andre (the spy)  ...........A. J. Burger
John Andre, Sr. (Major Andre’s Father)...W. Ohlman Gen. Knyphause.................................M.B. Kauffman
“ Robertson..............................T. Nelson
Admiral Graves.............................G. Sugg
Col. Carleton..............................T.	Fischel
Benedict Arnold (the traitor)........
Hezekiah Smith (a Tory).............. Sylvester (Page to Sir Henry Clinton)
Nimrod .. Warren ... Oneida.... Holland... Chester.... Wellington McAuley.. Newman.. Milton.....
Guards
Aides-de-Camp

Hilarion (a Courier)..............
Grand Tableau.
......C. Hagan .... J. E. Hagerty ......F. McGrath
......J. Rothert ......E. Moran ......A. Hatt ..... C. Orsinger ......A. Bergck ....N Vannamee ......J. Perea ......J. Healy ......L. Wolf ......F. Carroll
Epilogue...................................C.	J. Clarke
Closing Remarks..............Rev.	P. J. Colovin, C. S. C.
March for Retiring......................N. D. U. B.
N. B.—During the play the Notre Dame Brass Band will discourse several national airs.

Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. Cooney, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, E. Davenport, W. Dechant, J. G. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, A. Hertzog, P. Hagan, J. F. Krost, J. Kinney, J. Kanbel, F. Keller, J. Larkin, J. Lambin, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, J. Murphy, T. McGrath, J. McEniry, W. McGor-risk, Carl Otto, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, L. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, E. Riopelle, M. Regan, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, G. Saxinger, P Tamble, W. Turnbull, F. Vandervannet, E. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, A. Bergck, W. J. Brady, J. A Burger, J. Bell, G. H. Crawford, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, C. H. Colwell, M. Condon, F. C. Ewing, J. English, C. Faxon, T. Fischaei; R. Golsen, L. Garceau, B. B. Heeb, R. French, J. L. Healy, W. Hake, V. E. Hanson, J. Ingwerson, G. J. Ittenbach, C. E. Johnson, R. C. Johnson, M. B. Kauffman, J. R. Kelley, O. W. Lindberg, F. W. Lang, J. Lumley, F. T. McGrath, J. Mosal, J. Mungoven, E. Moran, R. P. Mayer, W. J. Nicholas, T. Nelson, W. fl. Ohlman, C. T. Orsinger, E. J. Pennington, E. F. Poor, C. Peltier, R. C. Price, W. J. Rogers, H. W. Rogers, I. Rose, S. D. Ryan, F. Rheinboldt, J. H. Rothert, J. P. Reynolds, P. Schnurrer, K. L. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, A Sievers, J. W. Sill, J. Stewart, C. H. Taylor, W. Taulby, C. Van Mourick, T. Wagner, L. Wolf.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Lowrey, P. Nelson, P. Heron, R. Pleins, G. Rhodius, J. Seeger, W. Coolbaugh, W. McDevitt, G. Lambin, A Coghlin, W. Cash, G. Hadden, E. Carqueville, C. Reif, H. Riopelle, F. Carqueville, W. Coghlin, C. Kanffman, A Rheinboldt, Arthur Sehnert, J. Inderrieden, F. Gaffney, C. Hertzog, E. Hertzog, C. Long, H. Kitz, W. Carqueville.
Class Honors. *
FOR THE MONTH ENDING MAT 29. PREPARATORY COURSE.
Seniors.— L. W. Proudhomme, W. Turnbull, W. McGorrisk, P. O’Leary, T. Quinn, H. Whitmer, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mat-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
621
timore, M. Caldwell, T. McGrath, G. Gross, J. McIntyre, T. Logan.
Juniors.—O. Lindberg, R. French, K. Scanlan, F. Carroll, E. Pennington, C. Johnson, R. Johnson, A. Abrahams, W. Taulby, B. B. Heeb, E. Poor, R. Mayer, J. Larkin, F. Rheinboldt, J. Healy, F. Cavanaugh, T. Nelson, J. Boehm, L. Garceau, J. Lomax, I. Rose, W. Hake, J. Scholby, G. Ittenbach. A. Sievers, J. Mungoven, C. Faxon. L. Sievers, C. Van Mourick, J. Sill, M. Condon, V. Hanson, A. Miller, J. Rogers.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Nelson, Geo. Lowrey, P. Heron, R. Pleins, J. Scanlan, W. Coolbaugh, W. McDevitt, E. Carqueville, C. Reif, G. Rhodius, A. Coghlin, G. Lambin, W. Coghlin, H. Riopelle, F. Gaffney, F. Carqueville, C. Kauffman, W. Carqueville, John Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, H. Kitz, C. Long, H. Snee.

—As no account of the trip of the vocalists to the renowned city of Bertrand has been sent in, we must omit the promised description of that grand picnic.
—On last Sunday the Children of Mary admitted seven new members to their number. Their names are: Misses M. Perley, M. Ewing, M. Dunn, A. Walsh, L. Tighe, K. Kelly, L. Beall.
—The young ladies of the Graduating Class felt much slighted that no mention has been made of the excellence of their cooking, as displayed in the fine supper they prepared on the 24th ult.
—The beautiful devotions of the month of May closed on the eve of Corpus Christi. These devotions were conducted and attended with great fervor. All feel grateful for the eloquent and instructive sermons given during the month in the Convent Chapel by the Rev. Fathers from Notre Dame.
—The Feast of St. Angela (the patronal Feast of Mother Superior) was celebrated with great eclat on the 30th of May. The pupils vied with each other in doing honor to the occasion. Very many guests were present, and the day was one of real festal gayety. We give below the programme of the Feast.
Entrance—“ Festzug ”.................(Adolph Jensen)
Misses H. and M. Julius.
Grand Chorus—“Hear My Prayer ”.......(Mendelssohn)
Vocal Class; Accompaniment, Miss H. Julius.
Address from the Graduates and Seniors. .MissM. Cravens Tableaux from the Life of St. Angela.
No. 1—Saint Angela and her little Sister at prayer.
No. 2—Death of her Sister.
No. 3—Saint Angela’s Request.
“ Musical Thoughts ” .......................(Bendel)
Misses A. O’Connor and J. Bennett.
Tableau—St. Angela’s Vision.
French Address......Misses Beall, A. Getty and J. Butts German Address......Miss M. Faxon
Vocal Trio—“Parlar non ruoi”................
Misses E. O’Connor, B. Spencer and D. Cavenor; Accompaniment, Miss C. Silverthorn. • Juniors’ and Minims’ Addresses.
“Birdling with her Trilling Song”...........
Miss B. Spencer; Accompaniment, Miss E. O’Connor.
ORIGINAL DRAMA.
MATHILDA OF TUSCANY.
Prologue.............................Miss M. Ewing
Act 1st.—Scenes 1st, 2d, 3d, and 4th.
Song—“La Printemps”....................(Tito Mattie)
Miss Foote; Accompaniment, Miss B. Spencer.
Act 2d.—Scene 1st.—The Camp. Scenes 2d and 3d.
Act 3d.—Scene 1st.
“ Sage mir, Vogel im granen Wald ”.....•••••• (Abt)
Miss E O’Connor; Accompaniment, Miss Spencer.
Tableau.
“Dream of Rest”..........Misses	Nunning and Spencer
Tableau and Scene 2d.
“ Die Lustigen Weiber von Windsor”........(0. Nicolai) “Are If aria"—Soprano Solo, with Chorus.. .(Falkenstein) Accompaniment, Miss Nunning.
Closing Remarks......................................
Overture to “Abu Hassan ” for Retiring.......(Weber)
Misses Hawkins and Pleins.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, L. Beall, A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, E. O’Neil, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, A. Reising, H. Russell, C. Morgan. C. Boyce, H. Hawkins, E. Lange, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, E. Rodinbeiger, 3. Moran. M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson, L. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, E. Pleins, D. and A. Cavenor, L. Kirchner, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, E. McGrath, M. Dunn, H. Millis, M. Pomeroy, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, M. Smalley, S. Cash, M. Halligan, K. Gibbons, C. Ortmeyer, M. Plattenburg, A. Miller, 8. Rheinboldt, 100 par excellence. Misses P. Gaynor, L. Tighe, K. Martin, M. Usselman, I. Cook, L. Brownbridge, L. Weier, E. Wright.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses C. Corrill, E. Parsons, M. Lambin, L. Cox, N. Hackett, R. Cox, L. Ellis, F. Fitz, E. Mulligan, L. Vannamee, A. Getty, J. Butts, A. Williams, E. Wooteu, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Ewing, D. Gordon, A Ewing, A. Morgan, A. Kirchner, L. Chilton.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses E. O’Connor, B. Spencer, H. Julius and J. Nunning.
1st Class.—Miss B. Wilson. 2d Div.—C. Silverthorne, H. Hawkins, M. Cravens.
2d Class—Misses A. Harris, M. Julius, A. Byrnes, L. Kirchner. 2d Div.—Misses L. O’Neil, A Koch, M. Spier, C. Morgan.
3d Class—Misses D. Cavenor, G. Kelly, B. Siler, A. Hennebery, M. Usselman, E. M. Pleins. 2d Div.—Misses D. Gordon, J. Burgert, A. O’Connor, M. Redfield.
4th Class—Misses A. Kirchner, A. Millis, A McGrath, L. Walsh, K. Burgie, M. Thompson. E. Lange, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, E. Thompson. 2d Drv.—Misses N. McGrath, A Walsh, A. Reising, A. Cullen, M. Schultheis.
5th Class—Misses K Martin, H. O’Meara, J. Burgie, M. Walsh, L. Weber, P. Gaynor, A. Morgan, M. O’Connor. 2d Drv. —Misses L. Weier, I. Cook, A. Woodin, M. Getty, G. Conklin, M. Robertson, A. Cavenor. C. Ortmayer.
6th Class—Misses K. Gibbons, L. Brownbridge, M. Ewing, S. Cash, M. Brady, L. Beall, C. Ortmayer, C. Correll, L. Kelly, A. Ewing, N. Johnson, M. Mulligan. 2d Div.—Misses N. Hackett, C. Boyce, C. Vannamee, M. Halligan, M. Casey, M. Coughlin, A. Peak.
7th Class—Misses L. Cox, L. Lambin, E. Wright, M. Davis.
8th Class—Misses E. Mulligan, M. Cox, J. Kingsbury.
9th Class—Misses E. Parsons, L. Ellis, E. Wooten.
10th Class—Misses M. McFadden and 8. Rheinboldt.
Harp—Misses E. O’Connor, D. Cavenor and B. Wilson.
Organ—Misses Spencer, M. Usselman.
Guitar—Miss A. Woodin.
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Contents.
Introduction—Astrological Predictions—Eclipses—Days of Obligation—Fasting Days—Time—Calendars—Festina Lente—Student’s Triumph—Il Ciriegio—What the Church has Done for Civilization—Peanuts—Alanus de Insulis— The Old Church—Have We a Climate—Commencement Ode—A New French Novel—Sunshine Glistens after Rain —Sidnev Smith—Leap Year—Batchelor Sketches—Count Von Gutzendorf’s Ghost—The Miser—Building Castles— Hodie Mihi; Gras Tibi—Building a Bonfire—The Cake of the Dismal Tramp—Meeting of the Waiters—Plato on the Immortality of the Soul—On the Wide Atlantic—Cowper —Dante and Pope Celestine V—A Model Student—Have we Deponents in English—Geology and the Development Theory—Oration of W. J. Onahan—Haunted House— Answer—Squeamishness—Republic of Plato—Father De Seille.
622
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWX «fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER at MITCHELL IN. S Mitchell, of '72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS Gr. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Real Estate Agent, Room No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
THOMAS U. CLIFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJi’NTN'O & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and
Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN E. McLlCTGrlT [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE it DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney ar Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.	-
McBRIDE <fc 3MCnL<EA.TH> (Jas. E. McBride, of ’63). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors iu Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLI A JU J. CL 4 It BCE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 <fc 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St., Columbus. O.
"TAMES A^. O’REILLY—of ’69 —Attorney at Law, •J 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOLTIN' D. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	-	*
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Lonis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 pm; Buffalo 8 05.
10 37" am. Mail.over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25pm; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
12 30 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 4<i p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40a m: Cleveland, 7 <5 a m; Buffalo, 1 05 p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight. • GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4 38 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 8 pm.	-
8 02 a m, Accommodation.. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chi-ago 11 30 a. m.
c 8 4 and9 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS 1 TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, •	■	• ILLINOIS.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
Organ for Sale.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.	'
Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAJN\pub'ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A. VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, pub'ished every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.5(i.	•
TFIE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Abthub C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74’ $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made bv the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass C. 0. to aS, 58 notes. Pedale, C. C. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a ’ Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address
Very Bev. A. GBANGEB, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, India”ap-olis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rptLJtu BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michi igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THEMATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wa-
bash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson. ■
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.
THE NOT^E DAME SCHOLASTIC
623
jansen, McClurg & co., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STREET, O2EIIGLAC3-O, ITjLHSTOIS.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-May 13, 1877.
	♦Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago....	5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 33 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles	9 01 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 am
“ Kalamazoo..	10 5H “	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson.	2 15 p.m	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit ..	5 45 it	t; 20 “	8 40 “	3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	4 45 p.m	6 05 p.m	9 50 p.m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m	8 00 “	9 30 “	12 45 a.u.
“ Kalamazoo..	1 16 p.m	2 40 “	5 CO a.m	12 16 a.m	2 53 “
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 50 “	2 35 “	4 24 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 (2 “	4 05 “	5 47 “
Ar. Chicago.	6 55 “	7 40 “	10 15 “	6 30 “	8 00 “
PATRICK SZETTOZKZZEY,
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE!
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
t*. S HICKEY.
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv.’So. Bend—8 15 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 22 •	6 35 ‘ Ar. Niles— 8 55 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	6 56 a.m. 415 p.m. “ N. Dame— 7 25 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 30 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H.B. Ledyard, *
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Hl.
* G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer lean for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineratogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of al] the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and cau do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other'Professional Men.
The collections’ of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Daua’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
ZF. ZMZZEITZETR, Agent FOK
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BENO, INO.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s 30-1
Look to Tour Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53-CLARK ST., oujosite Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
Number ot Specimens
25	50	100
in box inbox in box
100
200 300
Crystals and fragments.....
Students’ size, larger....
$50 $1 $1 50 | $ 1 1 50 3 6	5
Amateur’s size, 2J£ in. x 1*4.................
High School or Acad. size,2%x3]4 in. shelf specimens
College size, 3J4x6 in., shelf specimens ..
10
25
500
$ 2
10
25
50
100
$ 3
25
50
100
300
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the	.
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, comer Van Buren ana Sherman streets, as follows:	'
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m. Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express...................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
. Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
FMmd of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of .Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
M. Livingston & Co.,
-A-T&ZE TZELZE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 94 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND
624
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
. CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.	;
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.	•	''
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore ■& Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.	-
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points. .
dose connections made at junction points with trains of all cross points.	.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bemember. you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & NorthWestern Railway, and take none other.	"
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt, '
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KA* SAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES,
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, H.., and Louisiana, Mo.....4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to .Church and Markets, a vety desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees,grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, FLWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. K. LINE.
CONDENSED T15IE TABLE.
DEC. 10,1876.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
			No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
	Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive		11.30 PAI. 12.40 a.m. 3 05 “ 447 “ 6.50 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 1250 p.m. 2.32 “ 440 “ 5.15 “	2.00 P.M. 3.14 “ 555 “ 7.42 “ 9.55 “ 1030 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
	Crestline,	Leave Forest,			7.50 a.m. 925 “ 10.45 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.45 “ 7.20 “	5.40 p.m. 7.40 “ 9.35 “ 12.10 A.M. 3 20 “ 7.20 “	10.35 p.m. 11.53 “ 1.05 A.M.	•••••••••
	Lima,.									
	Ft. Wayne,	A				3.25 “ 5.49 “ 9.20 “	
	Plymouth,'						
	Chicago,.... ....Arrive					
	GC		)ING EAST.			
			No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
	Chicago,.. Plymouth, Ft. Wayne, Lima.			10.40 P.M. 2.40 a.m. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 1145 “ t	8.20 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 P.M. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.35 p.m. 9.00 “ 11.45 « 1.39 A.M.		
						
						
	Forest,					250 “ 4.20 “	
	Crestline,	Arrive						
	Crestline	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,....		 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.32 “ 4.10 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.30 a.m. 5.00 “ 6.58 “ 8.55 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6 05 a.m 6.50 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 P.M. 3.30 “
Train No. 6 runs Daily. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets tor sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
! F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A