awmwiii
The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
.	Disco quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 19, 1874.
Number 13.
JNO.HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG,
City Judge.	Notary Public.
JJAGERTY & TONG,
ATTOBNEYS-zVT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
No. 9 Odd Fellows’ Block. -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
BS. PECKS,	,
.	Dealer in
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	.	South Bend, Indiana.
£) J. HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of	.
. HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
AGO MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
■p E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST,
No. 96 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-lm
‘	Do you want a drive ? Go to
JgEN COQUILLARD’S
LIVERY STABLES,
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana. .
o24-2m
X^-JITHE STUDENTS' OFFICE!!^
JJENRY BLUM,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
CIGARS, TOBACCOS, PIPES, Etc., No. 54 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. Ko24tf
p NICAR & CO.,
* HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
HEADQUARTERS FOB
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., _______________________________o24-tf y NICAR,
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., -	- ' . SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle,. Etc. —ALSO—	’
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. ____________________________________o24-tf
J^J-RS. C. S. STOVER,
MILLINER,
129 Michigan, Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
Millinery Goods, Hats, Bonnets, Laces, Etc/
£3J“The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	- o24-Jan 1
JJIGHT & FAIRFIELD,
JEWELLERS
South Bend, - - - Indiana.
Solicit the Patronage of the Students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's
CONFIDENT IN
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK,
None Can Fail to be Suited.
^“Particular attention given to repairing fine Jewelry and Watches.	p24-3m
Q.EORGE HEHR,	.	’
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEALER IN . Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings. No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up Staiis.)	' •: ’.J^o^tf
M. A. smith.	E. P- Halloway.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY, -	-	Dealers in
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY ROODS, Chromos, Pictures, NTotions, Toys and >rusical Instruments. No. II, Washington St., •	-	• SOUTH BEND, IND.
fe
162
THE SCHOLASTIC.
j)almer & Vanwinkle,
Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,:.’
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellaneous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
JST" Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,	’	’
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., ... South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every .Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to air students desiring his services.	o24-tf
JJR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
J^DWARD BUYSEE, '	Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Stbeet,
South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. Js-tf
A HANAUER,
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
. STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
Students wishing well made Clothing should go to pUZBY & GALLAGHER,
CLOTHIERS, MERCHANT TAILORS,
AND DEALERS IN
Genta’ Furnishing Goods, HATS, CAPS, &c.
No. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. o24-2m
p E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old
English, on Watches, Rings aud Badges.
decl-Xtf-
JRELAND & SON,
PROPRIETORS of
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
. No. 34= MICHIGAN SC ,	- SOUTH BEND, IND.,
(Opposite the Dwight House).
---o--
HACK LINE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary's.	J$o24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!” .
---o--
DROP IN AT	*
“THE MINE CENT STORE!”
AND	.
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.

THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Noire Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hone during their stay, JERRY"KN1GHT, CAPTAIN MILLS, J-Proprietors.
A. KLINGEL & SONS,
69 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND.
Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of
Mens’ and Boys’ Fine Boots and Shoes
OF THE Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and Brackett & Boyden’s Hand and Machine sewed Goods, THE Largest Stock In The City.
Give us a Call and see the Nobby Styles!
LADIES
We would call your attention to our immense Stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard makes.	o24-3m
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT, 09 MAIN STBEET, -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
’ MEALS AT ALL HOURS! ■
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars, ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fresh Candies Made Daily.	’
Ho24-U
The Scholastic
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Discc quasi semper victurus; vive qjinsi eras moriturus
Volume VIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 19, 1874.	Number 13.
p	Sail, Tins!
BY J. M. J. G.
I.
From the limits of earth—from the plains of the West,— From the golden Pacific,—from fruitful Cathay—
From the beautiful Isles on the stormy sea’s breast,— Where the winds fall asleep, ’wake and hurry away;	'
From the groves of Manilla,—from Africa’s strand— Whose woful escutcheon’s a scourge and a tear;
Hear the shout of thy children in every land:
•	“ Merry Christmas ! dear Father,” and “ Happy New Year! ’’
ii.
Let the spirit of evil uprise in his might
And shriek ’mid the storms that his malice has raised;
Let him marshal his legions of error and night, ’Till his agents of evil themselves grow amazed ;
Let the Teutonic spider his poisonous web Cast over man’s freedom to bear it away, His triumph is short when no blessing is shed Upon him at New Year’s or Christmas Day. nr.
Hurrah for our Pontiff! the fearless and true!
•	The tempest is raging and threatens to whelm,
;	But who fears ?—The calm haven is rising to view,
With Peter at peace and Our Lord at the helm!
‘	Kings, cabinets, statesmen and armies of earth,—
Ye Judases, Pilates, with prison and rod,
Your plans and intrigues are fit subject for mirth, For, strive as you may, ye are working for God!
■ IV.
Yes, working for God, as sure as the sun	-
Is working His will on his beautiful path !
1	Ye work and ye sweat and when your work’s done,
.	- The Lord shapes the end and He shapes it in wrath I
!	The Assyrian came down in his purple and gold,
To bind to his chariot the High Priest a slave, ■	But the Lord heard the cry of His Priest and His Fold
And gave to the conquering myriads—a grave.
v.	.
'	Hurrah for our Pontiff! the dawn is at hand;
J >	The powers celestial are ranging in line,
The armies of God in dread majesty stand Waiting the word from the Captain Divine !
O Glorious Pius! thy crown will be great, When the legions of light in their splendor appear
।	■ To bear thee to heavenly joys which await
[	. In God’s Christinas Day and Happy New Year!
Innocsat III, and. his Times.
BY G.
John proved unworthy of the protection of the Pope, and before the end of the year re enacted the cruelties of Henry II, driving from his See the virtuous Cardinal Langton,
Archbishop of Canterbury. The hand that had saved him w’as no less prompt to hurl the thunders of the Church at his rebellious head. England was placed under interdict. John continued his cruelties; he imprisoned the intrepid Geoffrey, Archdeacon of Norwich, who had promulgated the Pontifical decree, and clothed him with a ponderous cope of lead, leaving him without food or assistance until the unfortunate victim died. He in his rage even attempted to turn Mahometan, and sent an embassy to that effect to Mahommed-al-Nassir, and requesting his aid. The Emir refused the request with disdain, closing his words to the ambassadors by saying: “ God knows that if I were without a creed I should certainly choose the Christian. Your master is a shameless wretch and unworthy of my alliance.” The stubborness of John compelled the Pope to excommunicate him and absolve his vassals and subjects from their oath of fealty. He gave the crown of England to Philip, who immediately collected a fleet of seventeen hundred sail. But the craven-hearted John again made submission to the Pope, and the expedition of the French king was prevented. “ With the consent of our barons,” wrote the king to the Pope, “ of our own accord and will, without any violence or constraint, we make over our person and our States, our kingdom of England and Ireland, to the Sovereign Pontiff and his Catholic Successors, in order to receive them back from their hands, as vassal of God and the Roman Church." The reparation was complete. But enraged at his humiliation, John turned his fury on the king of France and raised a hostile feeling against that king in all the courts of Europe. The deposed Emperor Otho IV, and several other princes, led an army of more than sixty thousand men into France. Philip had but fifty-five thousand warriors, but they were the chosen knights of France, led by such chiefs as the Duke of Burgundy, the Count of St. Paul, Matthew of Montmorency, and the valliant Hospitaller, Brother Guerin, Bishop elect of Senlis, who was on the field without sword or lance, but with counsel that was worth an army. The victory of Bovines was won by Philip; Otho retired, and died in his duchy of Brunswick. John returned to England to meet the contempt of his Catholic barons, who wrung from him in 1215 the Magna, Charta, celebrated in history as the basis on which are founded the liberties of Englishmen. John died worthy of his name, Lackland, as Louis was taking possession of London in 1216.	,
I must now speak of the Crusade which had been a favorite project with Innocent from the very beginning of his reign. This fourth Crusade, intended to wrest from Saladin the Holy Land, which he had taken from the Latins> was preached by Fulk, the Cure of Neuilly-sur-Marne, who awakened some of the accents of Peter the Hermit to rouse the faith of the people. But though there were -
164
THE SCHOLASTIC.
such celebrated leaders as Baldwin, Earl of Flanders, Walter and John of Brienne, Matthew of Montmorency, Simon of Montfort, who was to become more celebrated in a Crusade nearer home (against the Albigenses), Jeffrey of Villehardouin, and the Marquis of Montferrat, who was proclaimed Generalissimo, the Crusade proved a failure as far as the Holy Land was concerned. Against the entreaties and expostulations of Innocent III, the Crusaders allowed themselves to be diverted from their purpose, first at Zara, then at Constantinople. And though the knights covered themselves with military glory, and established their short-lived Latin Byzantine kingdom, and thereby effected a temporary but delusive union of the Eastern Church with the Western, they never reached the Holy Land; and we turn to Spain, where the Infidels were put in check.
But still it was glorious for Innocent to have attained in his time this union, and to have drawn, even though for but few years, the Orient from the darkness of schism into which it relapsed on the fall of the Latin Empire of Constantinople.
The failure in the East was counterbalanced by success in the West. Through the influence of the Pope the intestine strifes which disgraced the Christians of Spain were checked; and, obedient to the voice of the Holy Father Peter H, King of Arragou, Alphonso IX of Castile, and Sancho VII of Navarre, united their forces against the Emir Mahommed. '‘The brilliant engagement of Las Navas de Tolosa, comparable in its results to the battle of Poitiers, crowned the confederate princes with imperishable glory (1212). On this memorable field, the Mussulman rule in Spain received a blow from which it never recovered.” While on the frontiers of Europe Catholic arms were defending Christian civilization against Mahom-metan barbarism, a sect strong in numbers and powerful in hate arose in the heart of France. “ The Albigenses, a monstrous assemblage of the sects so often condemned under the various names of Cathari, Putarini, Waldenses, etc., -had survived in Languedoc, notwithstanding the thunders of the Church and the horror excited by their disorders in every upright mind. They have been represented by some historians as martyrs in the cause of freedom, of conscience, and religious independence. But the truth is, these sectaries had no other principle than the utter denial of all authority, of all hierachy, of all moral obliga tions; they were the sans culottes and petrolleurs of the 12th century, —that is, the forerunners of the vairous socialistics systems, reproduced at every succeeding stage of the world’s history.
Raymond of Toulouse was their protector, who, like many other mistaken princes thought his power would increase in proportion as the spiritual power was weakened. But the eye of Innocent IH was on him. The Pope sen-Peter of Castelneau as his legate in Languedoc, and the glorious martyrdom of this holy man, who was killed by two of Raymond’s men, was the first step to the crushing out of this sect. The Pope immediately wrote to all the “noblemen, counts, barons, lords, and knights, of Toulouse, Nar-bonne, Arles, Embrun, Aix and Vienne,” declaring Raymond VI, excommunicated, his vassals and servants released from their oath of fidelity, his person and lands placed under the ban of Christendom, and enjoined on all the faithful to arm against the enemy of the Church, granting for this campaign the same indulgences as for the other Crusades. France responded with enthusiasm; Si
mon of Montfort was given the chief command. Against the sect, and also against the Moors, who still held some of the fairest cities of France, Simon of Monfort directed his valorous troops. The whole campaign, from 1209 to 1213, was an uninterrupted series of attacks and assaults on cities and strongholds; the standard of the Cross was borne in triumph through the whple of Languedoc, and the final triumph was gained by the glorious victory of Muret (1213), in which Simon of Montfort, with twenty-five thousand men, defeated one hundred thousand led on by Raymond and his brother-in-law, Pedro II, of Arragon. The king of Arragon was killed on the field of battle, the cause of the Count of Toulouse was lost, and the Albigenses, still lingering, finally disappeared under the reign of St. Louis.
Of course at the mention of the Albigenses every one thinks of St. Dominic, who began his apostolic career in this campaign; and as Montfort was the hero of conquest, Dominic was the hero of conversion. His labors are too familiar to us all to justify me keeping you longer on that subject-.- I need only mention that to other glories of bis reign, to the other benefits he bestowed upon the Church militant, Innocent III approved, encouraged and caused to spread over Christendom the two great Orders of St. Dominic and St. Francis, and the Order of St. Clara, for women.
So great was the spirit of piety, that each of the above-mentioned Saints, after founding regular orders for men and women, had to form a third order which would comprise people in the world, who, not able or willing to enter a regular order, still wished to live a more perfect life than ordinary Christians. By this we see and may judge the real spirit of Catholics under Innocent. Far from the spirit of the world entering into the cloister, as has so often happened in less happy times, the spirit of the cloister invaded the world, “making it bloom with fruits of life and holiness.”
(to be continued.)
Sunnyside Reveries.
manorial Biomes.
The empiricism of our American people is indeed a remarkable trait in our national character. The desire to break away from old forms and customs, to mark out new paths never thought of before, is an all-prevailing appetency. The love of that which is ancient and venerable is a poetic instinct to which, as a people, we are comparative strangers. A vast unappeasable ambition for wealth, and the consequent luxury and ostentation that attend the court of opulence has led us to the discovery of new avenues and modes of acquisition, and imbued our lives with a spirit of restless, reckless adventure unparalleled and unknown in the history of any former time or people. Mutation and iconoclasm enter into even our most utopian dreams. Not content with launching new sj stems of action which have not in them a single element of permanency, we proceed at once to other schemes to bring about their overthrow, and substitute in their place other systems equally untenable, and evanescent. No change can be too radical, no theory too monstrous, to find warm advocates and sup-.porters. And this is equally true of men and things. The schoolboy to-day is a politician to-morrow, and wears an ermine robe the next; there is no systematic mental growth, no'springtime, but all is one continuous harvest,

THE SCHOLASTIC.
165
and death is not least among the reapers. The wilderness to day is a ciry to-morrow, and supports a teeming, seething population of restless, fickle inhabitants.	■
Now it might be readily surmised that among such an unsettled and venturesome people the great central influence of home-life would be very little felt; and so it is. We scarcely realize the meaning of the mystic word, seldom seek its higher, more exalted significance, and do not recognize its influence at all. We gained many important advantages by our removal from the thronged circles of the Old World, and no doubt acted wisely in casting aside many of the ancient customs which were inapplicable to our changed condition and restrictive to our rapid development; but I have often questioned the origin of our repugnance to the mannerism of the countries beyond the sea, and especially to that idea which exalted a home to the proud position that it holds in the heart of every European. There is something grand, poetic, and touchingly beautiful in those proud old manorial homes that have descended from generation to generation, and whose building dates back beyond the certainty of history, and around which legend and romance have woven such fascinating impossibilities. No wonder that the owner is regarded as a happy man; and can we marvel that he is proud of his possession and would sacrifice his life sooner than break the link which is to bind the past with the future by selling his estate. He regards the home of his ancestors as beyond the power of money to purchase, and hence he adorns it with all the adventitious aids to make it beautiful, that skill and art can supply. He renders it worth}’ the name of home in the proud certainty that it is to belong to him and his successors forever. This fact engenders a peculiar family pride, the result of family distinction, which, whatever may be the accusations against it, certainly operates as an incentive to true nobility and as a preventive of crime. Not so with us, it is the boast of an American that he will sell anything he owns, and, in this respect at least, he usually keeps his word. The home of his ancestors has nothing sacred for him, and nothing can withstand the dreadful temptation to sell. Our homes are usually boarding houses to us and nothing more. We build—or rent them, w’hich latter is more common—with the vague intention of occupying them for a few years and then going elsewhere and renting again, while not a few are well content to occupy rooms in a hotel, rear their families there, and depend upon the uncertain civility of others for all the amenities of life. They never know the meaning of home, and home-comfort, nor do they deserve to.
Society is composed of a train of wheels exactly adjusted so as to fit each other, the primary and most important one of which is the home-circle. Forth from it proceed all the others, commercial, civil and religious. Now, unless it have some fixedness, and certainty in its revolutions, the whole train must be unreliable and comparatively useless. And it is true; an influence cannot spring up in a day to last a lifetime; it requires time for development, and will not be forced, for its action is beyond the limit of the senses. This influence is the grand defensive bulwark of society. Physical growth cannot go on without the assimilation of proper food, nor can the better and higher development of the heart—the moral growth—take place without the gentle power wliich God ordained to cluster around the sweetest name in our language—Home. A man who loves not his home, or who knows not the meaning
of the word, may be a thoroughly good man and live a beautiful life, but such men are not numerous, and I have yet to see the first.	.
I was dreaming to-day of a beautiful home in the East, on the velvet, green banks of Lake Ontario, a delightful nook where the sun loved to linger and the days were long and cloudless. A place where the artistic goddess, Nature had plied her distaff in a happy mood, where nothing uncouth was tolerated, and art only adorned that which was already rendered beautiful by nature; where a poet might dream away his life, and vie with the grand solemn music of the great Cataract—which could be heard day and night—singing hymns perpetual of praise to the one -great Cause of all beauty and sublimity. Around that spot the sweetest recollections, the tenderest dreams of my life will forever cluster; but I was only a tenant, and the ebbing tide of time long since carried me away to other scenes, to the company of strangers, and the toil and care of active life;—the beautiful book was closed forever, but not before I had learned its pages well. Whatever of good I may. accomplish, whatever.of ill may cross the pathway of my life, whether among friends at home or wandering in foreign lands, I can never forget those few, brief, beautiful years that fled like a summer dream, and the touching appeal of that beautiful home will renew the days of my childhood and lighten the^heaviest burden of care.
The idea of a manorial home is a beautiful one, and by . no means repugnant to the spirit of Democratic institutions. It is the one thing left to us from the feudal system of Europe worthy our emulation. The possession of a home is the first duty which we owe to ourselves, and to adorn that home and make it worthy the name is ascertain step toward our earthly happiness and typical of the eternal happiness of the world beyond the stars. We cannot render our homes too artistic or ornamental, and no amount of money expended for such an object can be accounted as thrown away. God meant our homes should be beautiful, else He had never given us the example and model in the Paradise He created for Adam. A good location is requisite to a good home; a house in a wilderness is no home, and though a man might live very quietly and contentedly there, yet I marvel if he would find it equal to his innate ideal. God might have reared our homes for us and adorned them with infinite art and beauty, but in Hfa love and wisdom He left that duty and its reward to us, and as we weave well the fabric of His design, so shall we the better realize and yearn for that beauteous and eternal home w’hich will be ours, and of which our earthly dwellings are but the rude and imperfect archetypes.
T. A. D.
It Might Have Been.
A student at Commencement anxiously waits to see if he shall get a prize or an honor. None come. While sitting, with diminishing hope, as the pile of premiums grows smaller, he thinks: “ Why is it that I have no prizes ? I certainly have a better mind than a great many of those who did get them.” “ Yes, but they studied and you did not,” says Conscience; “they patiently plodded along, while you read trashy papers and books, which only served to enervate your mind and unfit it the more for study. You thought that you were talented, and that with a short time devoted to hard study you could easily catch up, but
163	e	THE SCHOLASTIC.
the time slipped from you and you found that you had not sufficient help to make up for what you had lost. You disregarded the proverb that ‘ Procrastination is the thief of time ” which I whispered so often in your ear; so you must be content with having no prizes, and with being considered a dull fellow.” With these words Conscience ceases to speak, and, looking sadly at the last prize as it is handed to its industrious winner, be turns away and says: “It might have been.”
An old man lies on a bed of sickness. His hair is white with the snows of seventy winters. His eyes are bleared ; and his face, though thin and pale, shows the signs of debauchery. His bed is poor and mean, and the rags which cover his wasted form cannot keep-'it warm, and hardly hold together from age. The whole of his surroundings show extreme poverty. While lying in this wretched state with no one to attend him on his bed of pain, Memory visits him. She brings up before him the time when he left college full of hope and life, with many kind friends Who were anxious to help him in his part in life. All was bright. A friend procured him an honorable situation in a large house. He had every reason to look forward to the time when he should be taken into partnership with his employer. He met a young girl, won her love, and linked her life withhis own. But he also met bad companions. They urged him to take a “social glass,” but he resisted for a long time. He was enticed into a gambling house “tolook on,” became interested in the game, and at last “took a hand.” He lost heavily, staked some of his employers, money, lost, and to drown his sorrow and shame began to drink. His faults were discovered and he lost his situation. He sank lower and lower; his wife died from want and ill-treatment, and at last after a riotous life he descended to the cellar in which we find him. Memory reviews all this before him, and Conscience whispers: “I told you that you were doing wrong in associating with the profligate crowd. I warned you that nothing but misery could come from gambling. You did not listen to me, but continued in your course. After you had ruined yourself I upbraided you more and warned you to tdrn, and told you that it might yet be well. You stifled ffiy voice in the wine-cup and.see where you are.”
These two tormenters continue, and with a groan the words “ It might have been I” force themselves through his pallid lips and he reaches out his wasted hand for his bottle to drown his agony in drunkenness. He drinks deeply, and in the stuper of drunkenness he goes to meet his Judge. One who knew him in his youthful days, and who was surpassed by him in' talent, looks around at his happy home and prosperous business, and dropping a tear for the friend of his youth says: “ Alas! it might have been.”
The poor pauper is buried in the potter’s field, with no one to mourn his death, instead of in a respectable grave, with the many mourners that always follow a good man to the grave, as “ it might have been.”	Gr. R.
—A blacksmith of a village murdered a man, and was condemned to be hanged. The chief peasants of the place joined together and begged of the judge that the blacksmith might not suffer, because he was necessary to the place, which could not do without a blacksmith to shoe horses, mend wheels, etc. But the judge said: “How then can I fulfil justice?” A laborer answered: “Sir, there are two weavers in the village, and for so small a place one is enough; hang the other.”
Will Ton?
■ To will, or not to will, that is the question— Whether ftis nobler in the mind to suffer	’
The faults and blunders of outrageous grammart . Or to take arms against a sea of errors, And, by opposing, end them ?
’Tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wished.
Aye indeed is it! Listen. Today, in walking by the lake, I overheard two intelligent youths conversing in a boat, when one of them, whom I had always looked upon as a boy of bright promise, said, in a composed, matter-of-fact sort of manner, to the other: “If I fell overboard out here I would be drowned.” What a monstrous wish! I was shocked. If he had said, “ I would swim to the shore,” I should have admired his pluck; but when he says, “I would be drowned,” I can only give expression to my abhorrence of his suicidal sentiment. This'boy is evidently the lineal successor of that gentleman, who, falling overboard into Lake Erie, shrieked out as if in an agony of desperation: “ I will be drowned; nobody shall save me.’’ They should have let him drown, but they wouldn’t; and now this boy of his lives to torment the English language.
This evening, when I twitted the boy on account of his-outrageous language, he meekly began to appease my wrath by telling this story. It seems that before the Firefiend had persuaded Mrs. O’Leary’s cow to set fire to Chicago, he had first tried to coax a poor ragged urchin to do the job; but the urchin nbbly refused, saying: “If I do that I will be hanged, and then 1 will go to hell.” I am glad the urchin refused to do the wicked deed; but I can’t understand why he wanted to be hanged, and still jess why he wanted to go to hell. For his villainous speech I could almost wish he had suffered at least the first punishment.
But what a blessing it is for us that we do not always get what we wish for; if we did what a host of willing souls would find themselves in too warm a climate this Wintry season! By their serious conversation, and from their well-spent lives, you would think that they could not wish themselves any harm; and yet you constantly hear such expressions as these: “I am afraid I will take cold if I go out” (what an ungovernable will that must be!),— “We will suffer for every fault we commit” (that must be a virtuous will which is so ready to suffer!)—“We would be traitors if we would betray our country” (it would perhaps not be amiss if we should imprison those fellows before they carry their wishes into execution, and commit some overt act of treason!) I confess that I am lost in astonishment at the willingness of these good persons to do wrong: that they should be willing to suffer for their faults does not seem so strange, as that is a mark of heroic virtue. But I cannot understand it. Some have ventured to’suggest that in such expressions the substitution of shal-and should, for will and would, would make good sense; but I don’t know. I wish some one would enlighten me on the subject. Kind reader,	Will You?
A western man set fire to the prairie for fun, but after he had run seven miles and climbed a tree, with his pants about all burned off, he concluded the sport was a little too violent exercise to be indulged in oftener than once in a lifetime.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
137
Literature.
—Before us lies the Catholic Record for December, 1874. The number is very good; the articles are even above the general order to be found in its page s, though they are always good. The Record supplies a want that was long felt by the Catholics of the United States. We have given words of commendation in the Scholastic so often that we must say nothing more in praise of the Record. The contents of the number are: I. Does Papal Infallibility Involve Civil Disloyalty, by Charles H A. Eding. II. The First Christmas. III. A Brand Snatched from the Burning-Eleanor C. Donnelly. IV. Observations on the Marks of the Church, by Very Reo. Dr. Moriarty. V. The Angel and the Child. From the French of Rebould, Eleanor C. Donnelly. VI. To .Whom we are Indebted for the Preservation of Ancient Literature. George D. Wolff. VII. The Truth of It. (Conclusion.) Mrs.M. M. Warde. VIII. Forever. H. G. Gonicay. IX. Letters to a Protestant Friend. Sixth Letter. Very Rev. Dr. Moriarty. X. Twice Mistaken. From a Bachelor’s Diary of Christmas Day. XI. “ Died—Aged Seven Years.” Mrs M. M. Warde. XII. A Story of Beethoven. XIII. Editorial Notes. XIV. New Publications. Library of the Sacret Heart. Eagle and Dove. The Elements of Physics, etc.
—The first number of Vick's Floral Guide for 1865 is on our table. It is well made up and is of great service to all who have a love for gardening. The look of the quarterly almost tempts us to turn gardener.
—All of the Pope’s discourses since the occupation of Rome by the robber-king, have been compiled for publication by Father Franciscos.
—The best essay for the treatment of the wounded, for which a prise was offered by the Empress of Germany, was. written by Dr. Porter, an Irishman.
—The Spectator, pronounces “The Greville Memoirs,” the most readable book of the season.
—Donahoe of Boston announces as in press the “Life of Rev. John Eudes,” also new editions of two of Carleton’s works.
—A very useful little book is the “ Catholic Illustrated Family Almanac,” published by the Catholic Publication Society. ' x
—We see no announcements of books for the Holidays in the Catholic papers.
—John Boyle O’Reilly, editor of .the Pilot, is in the lecture field. If his lectures are as good as his poems they are enjoyable.
■ —A fellow named Goodrich is trying to make Columbus oijt a rogue. If there is any thing we detest it is these ghouls who feast on the good names of great men.
—"The Young Folks' Monthly," published at407 West Madison St., Chicago, is an excellent little Magazine, well adapted to convey good instruction to young people.
—The students from Kentucky should invest a few dollars in the Louisville “ Catholic Advocate." The Advocate is a paper which has a manly and Catholic ring in it. We would advise all our Kentuckians to subscribe for it. It is not every city which can boast of a Catholic paper equal to the Advocate.
—The Catholic Union is a most readable paper. Though not so pretentious as many Eastern papers, it gives its subscribers good reading both as to original and selected matter.
Scientific Notes.
—The most important advance made in the theoretical part of Physical ^Science in the present century is the discovery that Heat and. Motion are two different forms of the same force; and 'mutually convertible. The theory was first advanced by the celebrated Montgolfier, about the year 1800; and was again set fotih independently by Mr. Carnot in 1824. But it was more fully developed by the English physicist, Groves, who first treated the subject in a systematic manner, and gave it a scientific form, in his work on the “ Correlation of Physical Forces.” The theory advocates that Force is as indestructable as Matter, and that the sum total of Force in the universe, as well as the sum total of Matter, always remains the same, but both may be transmuted from one form into many others; and that there is never any fresh creation of either.
—We clip the following item about figures from the Pilot:—“The question is first asked: ‘In how many different ways can the twenty-four letters of the alphabet be transposed?’ Answer, 620,448,401,773,239,439,360,000.
“ The question is then asked: ‘ How many men would it take to write down all these transpositions, supposing each man wrote forty pages per day, and each page contained forty different transpositions?’ Answer, AH the men on the whole globe could not in a thousand million of years write down all these transpositions.”
—The different colors visible in the different parts of the ocean are occasioned by myriads of minute insects which swarm its waters. The phosphorescence of the ocean is due to a like cause.
—Lake Titicaca, on the crest of the Andes, is the highest large body of fresh water in the world, and it never freezes over; it has an altitude of 12,493 feet, and is about the size of Lake Ontario.
—Alcohol affords a very fine example of the great ex pansion of liquids; It is said that twenty gallons of this liquid measured in January, will become twenty-one in J uly.	_________________________
Society Notes. -
—The Thespians will give their Exhibition to-night.
—The Sodality of the Holy Angels are working as usual.
—Our friend John says he intends to visit the St. Ceci-lians some fine evening.
—The 12th regular meeting the of St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society was held on Sunday, Dec. 13th, 1874. At this meeting Messrs. E. Washburn, and F. Hoffman were elected members. After reports were read, the Treasurer and the Censors, Masters L. Guetig and S. Pilliod, delivered declamations. The President then made a number of remarks on different subjects, after which the meeting adjourned.
—The 16th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma* thean Association was held December 15th. Rev. Father Colovin, C. S. C. presided; after giving a criticism on the last exhibition, he gave a very interesting instruction on literature. When the Rev. Director finished his remarks, Masters Arnold, Soule and Meyer delivered declamations.
—At the 16th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-matbean Association a unanimous vote of thanks was tendered to Prof. J. F. Edwards and Mr. M. S. Focte for kind favors at the late exhibition.
168
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic,
Published every Weelc during Term Time at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
AH communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: One year....................$1 00
Single copies {5 cts.) can be obtained at the Students' Office.
Parents and Guardians are requested to bear in mind that the Christmas Vacation does not begin until Wednesday morning, December 23rd. All students must be back for Classes on Saturday, the 2nd day of January, 1875
—Before another issue of The Scholastic many of the Students will be away from the College, spending the Holidays with their relatives and friends. The Scholastic wishes them all, without exception, a merry Christmas, and hopes that they may so enjoy themselves and recuperate their energies during the Holidays, that with the openingyear they may be prepir^ to commence again, in real downright earnest, the work which will be in readiness for them.
To those who are not going home, The Scholastic also wishes a merry Christmas, and we know that they can spend a merry one if they will but try. It won’t do to hang round a stove and find fault with your stars that you are among those who are left, and not among those who are enjoying themselves at home. No; if you wish to enjoy a merry Christmas you can. Start a holiday debating club; a holiday amusement club; get up a scrub exhibition; go about and show that you wish to be merry, and you will find that you will be merry. Get up a series of games for the evenings; don’t think that games are too boyish ; we pity the man of forty-five who can’t enjoy good games, such as are known to all boys. You wish for a merry Christmas: we,and all about Notre Dame, wish you a merry Christmas, and it will be your own fault if it is not merry.
- —Why is it that all the great leaders in the war of infidelity, or “ science,” as they call it, pass by the many sects of non-Catholics and single out the Catholic Church, with whom, alone, they wish to break a lance ? Huxley, Darwin, Tyndall, and others, pay no attention to Protestantism; just as the encyclopaedists in France waged war upon the Catholic Church and never heeded those outside its pale. Huxley calls the fight made by the Anglican clergy against “ Science "guerilla warfare. He might be tempted to fight them if they annoy him, but he makes his great battle with Rome. So Dr. Draper, in his recently published volume, entitled “ The Conflict of Religion and Science,” attacks religion only as shown in the Roman Catholic Church. He does not believe in revealed religion at all; with him it makes no difference whether a man is an Anglican or a Methodist; with him the Bible is no authority; he believes n no religion, possibly in no God. Why is it, we then ask again, that he, and all infidels, pass by the sects and attack the Church of Rome ?
Is it not because all outside the Church of Rome are powerless to engage in combat? No persons can partake
in a combat who are unable to fight; an army may kill them or take them prisoners, but we cannot say that it fights them. So it is with non-Catholics: it is because they are powerless to defend Christianity against the attacks of infidelity, that they are not warred upon; but the Church of Rome being able to keep up a fight, and not only that but being able to resist all the efforts of infidelity and make attacks upon it in return, is the great enemy of modem, “science.” The leaders of infidelity know well that if they could but overcome Rome their victory would be complete. They have nothing to fear from Protestantism; they are, in reality Protestants. They have run the doctrine of Luther to its full extent; they believe in freedom from authority, and they shake off all allegiance to Protestant Churches as well as to the Church of Rome ; they believe in the right of private interpretations and make use of the right in the same manner as Protestants do; they have continued the protest begun by Luther. How can those outside the pale of the Church find fault or complain if scientists, acting upon the same principle that they follow, come to the conclusions which they have? And, in fact, most of the rank and file do not complain. Though a man may attach himself to some particular Church, it does not follow that he believes in—not the dogmas, but the protests of that Church; and there is to-day many a follower of Tyndall, and Huxley, and Darwin, and Strauss, and Colenso who attend regularly, and are members of churches not in communion with the See of Rome.
—It is strange that although there have been many societies formed here at Notre Dame, not one has ever been formed having Art culture for its object. We have Religious Societies in which, it is to be hoped, the members are taught real practical piety; we have Literary Societies, in which many students take a lively interest, and to which all have, from time immemorial, been urged to attach themselves; we have Musical Associations, formed lor the purpose of promoting among the members a love and knowledge of music; we have a Sciemific Association, for the purpose of instilling a love of science in the members: but we have never had an Art Association. Now we don’t like to be urging too many things, but we do think that such an association could very easily be formed among those who study Art here at Notre Dame; we don’t mean that they should fashion their association on the model of debating societies, because then the association would fail completely. Let the meetings partake of the nature of a conversazione. Let the members meet without too much formality, talk over such subjects connected with Art as have been appointed at a previous meeting, or listen to a lecture oh Art by persons competent to instruct them. These meet-iugs will give much more life to the regular classes if members were required occasionally to exhibit a design at the meetings, there to be subject to the criticism of all the members; all would there see in what they are deficient, and would take pains to exhibit pictures on which they have given skilful work. Why could not a Society of this kind be formed? We think that it would do more to create among the students a love for Art than any other means employed. In looking over The Scholastic for 1871-72 we fin d that this suggestion was made once before but was never acted upon. We would like to see it tried once; we believe it would work much good: but even though it should fail, no harm can arise from it. Who will move in the matter?
THE SCHOLASTIC.
169
’	The Exhibition.
We were in error when we stated in the last number of The Scholastic that the Exhibition on the 10th of December was given jointly by the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean and the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Associations. The Exhibition was given solely by the St. Cecilians; and as it was in all respects successful, it is but right to make the correction and give the honors to whom they are due.
On account of the death of Revs. Fathers Lcmonnier and Gillespie, both of whom were in other years Directors of the St. Cecilians, the Exhibition was not given this year on the Feast of St. Cecilia, but was postponed to the 10th of December. From the programme handed us at the door by one of the most gentlemanly members of the Association, we learn that this year is the 17th Exhibition gotten up in honor of St. Cecilia by the star Association of the Juniors. May it continue to give them yearly until the end of time.
The following is a copy of the programme of the evening’s Enterainment, which consisted, as you may see, of music, declamations, and plays:
Grand St. Cecilia March, -	-	- N. D. U. C. Band
Overture—“ Fidelio ” (Beethoven), -	- *- Orchestra
Address—Salutatory, ----- J. P. McHugh La Marseillaise,.......................Vocal Class
Ode to St. Cecilia, -	-	-	-	- A. K. Schmidt
Overture—“ Fra Diavolo ” (Auber), -	-	- Orchestra
Prologue, - '.......................D. J. O’Connell
" THE MISER.
A Comedy in Three Acts.
Translated and Adapted from the French of JUoliere.
DRAMATIS PERSONS :
Harpagon—Father to Cleonte and Polyander, - J. F. Beegan Cleonte,.................................J.	P. McHugh
Polyander,...............................A.	K. Schmidt
Lapierre—Steward to Harpagon, -	-	. J. F. Soule
Lafleehe—Valet to Cleonte, -	-	- D. J. O’Connell
Orontes—Citizen—Neighbor to Harpagon, - J. E. Wood Anselm—A Rich Notary, - - • - - - L. P. Best Maitre Jacques—Cook and Coachman to Har-
pagon, ..............................W.	S. Meter
Orville—A Commissary, - - . - T. McNamara Lamerluche, -	)	f - J. W. Minton
Brindavoine, -	> Attendants.-< - - J. L. Perea
Antoine, ’-	-	)	'	(	- J. F. Dore
Music—Waltz—(After Act First), - - N. D. U. C. Band Overture—“Der Freisehiitz” (Von
Weber) -	-- Profs. Paul and Mayr,
.	and Messrs. Walters and Otto
To Conclude With
A CURE FOR DUMBNESS,
—OR—
DOCTOR NOLENS.
A Farce in One Act.
Gregory—Doctor Nolens,	-	-	-	- R. J. Downey
Dion—Brother to Gregory, -	-	-	- H. D. Faxon
Sir Jasper Credulous, ------ L.P. Best Squire Robert—Very unassuming, -	-	-	T. J. Solon
James, - -	-	1	5	- J. D. McIntyre
Harry, -	- f Attendants, j _ F. G. Paljibr
Closing Remarks -------	.,
March—“ You may retire"	-	-	- N.D. H.C. Band
The music of the Exhibition was, throughout, the best that we have ever heard in Washington Hall. There may have been occasions when there were a few pieces better than on the 10th, but taking the music altogether it has never been surpassed.
Though the members of the Orchestra say that their playing at the Exhibition was not equal to that at rehearsals, we think we may safely say that their endeavors on the 10th were truly excellent, and moreover were appreciated and enjoyed by all. The generality of people are not able to appreciate music of the order of Fidelio T and the applause that greeted the Orchestra after the rendition of the first overture showed that there were many in the Hall who hate taste for good music. The quartette from “Der Freischutz" was well performed, and received theapplausejustly due it; thesamemay be said of theover-ture to “Fra Diavolo," performed by the Orchestra. Prof, Paul is an excellent violinist, and all will be pleased tp-hear him often. •
• The Vocal Class made their first appearance this year in “La jltdrseiUtiise." The solo was sung by Mr. Thomas O’Leary, who showed clearly that with a little more cultivation he will become an excellent singer. The whole Class exhibit good training, and, we have little doubt, will become one of the chief features in our Exhibitions this coming year. Prof. Paul has the knack of interesting his pupils; he is unceasing in his labors and is thorough in his instructions.
Though much spirit in the singing was wanting, yet weM. may predict that at their next appearance on the stage the V' members of the Vocal Class will make a better display of the instructions given them by their energetic preceptor.
Of the addresses, declamations, etc., it is'only necessary to say that they were up to the usual standard required of all who appear on the stage in Washington Hall.
“The Miser,” translated and adapted from the French of Moliere, was well played. Master Beegan took the roll of Harpagon in good style; Masters McHugh and Schmidt impersonated the characters of Cleonte and Polyander with a true conception of the patts; Masters Soule, O’Connell, Wood, Best, McNamara, Minton, and others, all entered fully into the spirit of the play, and acted well; Master Meyer, as Maitre Ja&jues, kept the house in good humor ■whenever he appeared; altogether “ The Miser ” was well rendered, for we must always remember that the same . amount of good acting is not required of young boys as is expected from Booth.
“A Cure for Dumbness” was equally well played. Master Downey took the part of Gregory with much spirit and ability; Masters Faxon, Best, Solon, xMcIntyre and Palmer acquitted themselves finely, leaving the audience in doubt as to which of the two plays of the evening was the best.
At the conclusion of “A Cure for Dumbness” Fathers General and Cooney thanked the young gentlemen for the entertainment which they had given, and expressed the feelings of the audience when they said that the entertainment was oneof the best ever given in Washington Hall.
The Band then played the celebrated March, “ You may lietire" arranged for the occasion, after which all left the Hall for their beds. The Band played very well, and under the leadership of Mr. Gillespie will soon be equal to the Band of last year.
—A correspondent in Detroit sends us some verses. We cannot publish them until he sends us his. name.
—“ Why do they call the people who live in the South Sea Islands ‘cannibals?’” asked an old lady of a sailor. “Because they live on other people,” answered the sailor. “Then my sod in-la w.must be a cannibal,” said she, pensively, “ for he lives on me. ”
170
THE S CH OLAS TO.

.	. Personal. .
—Send on your personals.
■—J. Stubbs, of ’72, is in Galveston, Texas. .
•—Jas. Cunnea, of’70, is banking in Morris, Ill.
—J. P. Hoffman, of ’72, is banking in Chicago.
•—W. C. Green, of ’74, is in Shabbona Grove, Ill.
•^-Rev. J. Carroll, of'55, is pastor of Fremont, 0.
—Jno. Sullivan, of’64, is in the P. O. in Chicago.
—H. Beckman of’<2, is doing well in Cleveland, 0.
—Geo. V. Burbridge, of ’74, is in Springfield, Mass.
■—Rafter, of’70, is with’Field, Leiter & Co , Chicago, Ill.
—Capt. Jno. J. Healy,of ’59, is City Clerk of Chicago, Ill.
—P. H. Scott, of ’65, is cashier for Day Bros., Peoria, Hi.	,	.
—S. A. Marks, of’74, is in an insurance ofiice, in Chicago, 111.
—Jas. Healy, of’59, is in the P. 0. Department in Chicago.
—Amos K. Clay, of ’60, is practicing law in Miamisville, Ohio.
—M. H. Keeley, of ’72, is practicing law in Waseca, Minn.	.	.
—W. T. Ball is taking a prolonged vacation at Fruitport, Mich.
—Franklin Dwyer, of’67, spent a few days with us last week.
—Bro. Eugene is doing a big business in the boot and shoe line. '
—Jas. Noland, of ’66, is in the Commission Business, Chicago, Ill.	-
—Thos. Ewing, of ’69, is, at present, residing in Lancaster, Q.	'
—Bro. Raymond keeps everything in good order in the Infirmary. .
—Geo. Gardner, of ’60, is doing a fine business in Hillsdale, Mich.	’
—T. F. Heery, of ’69, is doing a fine business at Clarksville, Iowa.	.
—Chas. Wheeler, of’73, is practicing law in Mechanicsville, Iowa.
—J D. McCormick, of ’73, is in the marble business in Lancaster, O.
—P. McNaughton, of ’72, is in business with his father in Buffalo, N. Y.
—E. J. Nugent, of ’72, is in the dry goods business in Louisville, Ky.
—H. P. Morancy, of ’69, is in a good establishment in Memphis, Tenn.
—H. Randolph, of ’73, is in the grocery business in Indianapolis, Ind.
—Send in all the personals you can; they will always be well received.
—W. Freeman, of ’66, is in business with his father in Iowa City, Iowa.
' —Prof. Howard will lecture in South Bend, Ind., tomorrow evening.	-
—J. Langenderfer, of ’72, is on the Toledo & Wabash R. R., Toledo, O.	.
—Henry Barlow, of ’68, is at Mt. St. Mary’s of the West, near Cincinnati, O.
—M. B. Collins, of ’64, is an active agent of the U. S. Express in Cleveland, O.
—Rev. Jno. Crowley, of’61, is one of the most energetic priests in the Fort Wayne diocese.
—H. B. Keeler, of ’69, is in the real estate and the Insurance business, St. Mary’s, Kansas.
—Frank W. Phelan, of ’72, is keeping bocks for F. A.
-Drew, 421 N. 6th Steet, St. Louis,Mo.
' —Prof. J. D. Moriarty, of mathematical memory, is treasurer of the city of Muskegon, Mich.
—J. B. White, of ’65, is in the book and stationery busi* ness with J. J. Daly, No. 316 N. Alain street, St. Louis, Mo.
—M. R. K< egan, our old friend, is doing au immense business in the book line at 457 West 12th street, Chicago, Ill.
—Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of Laporte, is actively engaged in preparing for Christmas festivities. He was of the class of ’55.	.
—H. P. Kinkead, of’71, has entered into partnership with a Mr. Johnson, Lexington, Ky. They are in the book and stationery business.
—S. L. Moore, of ’63, is with Oliver, Finnie, & Co., Memphis, Tenn. Moore was once on the Editorial staff of the Scholastic.
—Mr. W. H. Beach, of the firm of Beach & Keedy, the enterprising paper manufacturers of South Bend, favored us with a short visit on Saturday last.
—Our old friend, Hemy Beckman, of Cleveland, Ohio, an old student of ’72-3, spent a few days with us this week. We are always pleased to see Henry, and hope that his visits may be more frequent.
—Wm. Walsh, of ’59, is with his father in the D. S. Mail service, Chicago, Ill., and is a most trustworthy and efficient assistant. For the benefit of his many old friends we may stale that his address is 1010, Indiana Avenue.
—We find that our personals are pleasing to all the old students; for this reason we beg of our many friends, no matter where tl\py are, to send us news of the whereabouts of persons who have, at any time, attended class at Notre Dame.	-	-
L:cal Items.
—Yes? ...	.	■
—In fac’.
—Study hard.
—Now, you see/	■
—Be back on the 2nd.
—Oysters are all the go.
—Skating soon, we hope.
■—Turkey on Friday next.’	’
—Rec. is lively nowadays.
—A merry Christmas to all.
—Much walking on Sundays.
—The new scenery looks well.
—Central or Southern, which ?
—Don’t throw stones ou the ice.
—Keep the 11 th Commandment.
—Christmas is all the talk nowadays. •	,
—When will a chess club be started?
—Remember the Exhibition to-night.
—Plenty of work on the St. Joe Farm.
—The Manual Labor School is all right.	.
—A scrub-game of hand ball now and then. .
—Who is foreman in the new Recreation Hall ?
—Patronize the Lemonnier Circulating Library.
—Take a free sleigh-ride on Wednesday morning.
—They are putting in the floor in the new church.
—The new telegraph wire is in good working order.
—No news from Rev. Father Carrier for a long time.
—Leave your orders for the Scholastic at the Office.
—A new addition to the Sisters’ House has been built.
—The Band will probably lose the base drummer soon.
—The Memorial Chapel will be commenced next Spring.
—Mr. Edwards has a beautiful pair of Chinese slippers.
—The marsh back of the Presbytery is being filled up.
—The new Play-Hall is open on Sundays and Wednesdays.	"
—It seems as though it is impossible to get on the Lazy List now.	’	.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
171
.‘-ntfr.-8 tace’s horse ran away the other day and broke the buggy.
—Who got the “grand bounce” last Sunday? Ask the refectorian.
—Father Neyron was once a surgeon under the great Napoleon.
—A new wing to the College is to be built, we learn, next Spring.	/
—The drapery has been removed from the Philoma-theaus’ room.
—Rev. Father Golovin lectured before the Commercals oh Monday night.
—Father Golovin will teach the Class of Dogma. He has a full Class.
—Messrs. Shea and Kelly do good work .every Sunday, teaching Catechism.
—Don’t write your names on the walls. Remember “ Fool’s names,” etc.
—The St. Cecilians set the good example of keeping quiet back of the stage.
—Why is the Junior Department like a boot? Because it has a sole on (Solon).
—There was some goon turning on the Seniors’ turningpole bn Monday last.
—If Bro. Theodosius is not where we said he was in our last issue, “ he is thar or tharabouts.” *
—Bro. Peter has been engaged to write a number of astronomical articles for the Watertown Republican.
• —The champion runner, finding no one to run against, ran against tune the other day and came out ahead.
—Bro. Vincent, who is the oldest member of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, is still hale ahd hearty.
—Bud and Jack have dissolved partnership, and Bud and Sol will keep the stoves agoing. Good! says our friend John.
—Our friend John says that steam pipes are almost as contrary as mules, and their noise is worse than that of the other animal.	.
—Our friend John went to Studebaker’s shops to see the ghost, but he says Morpheus didn’t give him a ghost of a chance to see.
—Students going home for the Holidays will have their baggage checked at the College and forwarded free, on Wednesday morning, December 23rd.
—Our friend John thought to have a glass of good cider the other day. He s tys, however, that vinegar as a beverage isn’t worth a cent.
—Bro. Bonaventure has made all his arrangements for the Spring. We need not be surprised if his garden looks more lovely than ever when June comes round again.
—Our friend John attended the Why Not party in South Bend. Among others whom he was delighted to see in the giddy mazes of the dance was Charlie Hayes, whom the South Bend Union tells us is from the College. Our friend was greatly surprised to know tnat Charlie attended class here. Who will answer to the name?
* —Our friend John don’t believe in ghosts. He is not to be frightened with any stories like those which are told of" the Studebker Factory. He spent a night in the haunted room the other night and he says the only spirits which troubled him were those which he took with him.
—Our friend John went to South Bend a day or two ago and came back with a sweet potato and a turnip in his pockets. He says its all right, but he don’t tell about the policeman who made a young man run as though the Comanches were on the war-path and were intent upon possessing his scalp.
—TheLuxemburger Gazette, an ably conducted German paper, publistud in Dubuque, Iowa, says:
“From Notre Dame, Indiana, there comes to us a neat English weekly, The Schloastic. It is devoted chiefly to the interests of the students of that Institution. It has now reached its eight year, a id the numbers before us are full of interesting scientific reading-mutter. We intend, from time to time, to make translations from its pages. Although we do not know who the friendly sender is nevertheless we thank him for his kink attention.
—We are pained to announce the death of Bro. Anthony, which took place last Sunday morning, at T^ o’clock. Bro. Anthony worked faithfully at his trade in the blacksmith shop for many years. He was also employed for a number of years in the N >viuate, but he was generally-known to the students as Prefect in the Music Hall. Having lived a good life, he died a happy de ith, lamented by all with whom he came in contact. His name in the world was Henry Reissacher. His age was 52 years, most of which he spent in religion. May he rest in peace.
—“These youngsters,” said our friend John, the other day, pointing to the “Minims,” are a queer set. Now, I saw a number of them coming out of tne refectory this afternoon and one cf them without the least concern put his two feet on a level with his chm and calmly laid the seat of bis breeches on the ground. Then he looked calmly around to see if anyb >dy saw him, and when he found that no eyes were upon him hi raised himself upon his feet and went on eating bread and butter as though there were not twenty thousand men out of employment iu Gnicago.
—Bro. Alpheus knows howto keep horses. There are many persons who may understand languages, etc., but who do not know how to treat a horse. It is not necessary 4o run a horse to death, for you should remember that a horse deserves almost as good treatment as a man. Bro. Alpheus knows that horses should be treated well; and he insists and lie does right in insisting on it, that all who use his horses drive them properly. He has four horses in his stables, Charley, Coley, Beauty and Little Fiddler. The Little Fiddler we bet our money on, though he is the smallest.
—Our friend John invited some of his friends to break first in the Infirmary last Sunday morning and was some what surprised to find that he him-elf needed an invitation. He says the shock on his nerves was as bad as that resulting from the “grand bounce” which he received but a few moments before. Our friend John is put out about it, and he says he is determined never to .go to the Infirmary unless carried t hereby main force. We would advise him to stay away in the mornings.
—The following is a popular song among the Juniors at present:	’
When----------.took a jaunt To South Bend to see his aunt, At every step his heart did pant As he thought of “ Old Reliable.”
—We have heard some very long addresses here at Notre Dame occasionally, but we never until recently imagined that they were made large enough to cover as much ground as is intimated in the following item, which is going the rounds of the papers: “Tne young Earl of Bandon was presented on his twenthieth birthday, at Castle Bernard, in the County of Cork, with an’ elaborate address, signed by 800 of his: tenantry, occupying 90,000 acres of laud.”
—We received a private letter from our friend Ned in Memramcook, containing a short account of the Exhibition given there by the students of St. Joseph’s College on the evening of the 25ih of November. The programme consisted of some 20 pieces in French and English which were well rendered by the young gentlemen to whom they were allotted. Mr. H. A. Meehan delivered an excellent discourse on Music; on which subject also, Mr.N. Landry spoke in French. Declamations were well delivered in English by Messrs G. V. McSweeney and Charles Collins; while Messrs. L. Blanc and La Forest entertained the audience in T rench. The English play of the evening was “ The Cross of St. John,” the characters of which were handsomely sustained by Messrs. Chas. Donohoe, Geo. V. Mclnerny, Charles Collins, H. Connors, Jno. Coholan, E. J. McPhelim, A. Barry, O’Neill, and our old friend “the great O'Sullivan,” Mr. Patrick Gillespie. Our correspondent waxes warm in praise of all the actors of the evening except of him who took the part of Saulman; as the Saubnan of the evening and our correspondent is one and. the same person, we know it was 'modesty that kept him silent. We know what sort of acting Donohoe, Collins, Mclnerny, McPhelim, Coholan and the others can do, and we feel confident that on the 25th they did well. The music at the entertainment was, our young correspondent
172
THE SCHOLASTIC.
writes us well rendered, under the guidance of our genial friend Mr. Ringuette. We hope io hear frequently from our correspondent and from others up near the Bayr of Fundy.
—Ourneighbor the" Ave Maria" acknowledges itself under obligations to Sir. Charles Stewart, the enterprising pa-manufacturer, of 141 & 143 Walnut st., Cincinnati, for favors during the past year. It has obtained all its paper from him during the last twelve months and professes itself not only well pleased with the qnality and price of. the paper itself, but still more so with the gentlemanly urbanity and kindness of Mr. Stewart. Our neighbor speaks so highly of him that we cordially commend his house to the patronage of our friends who may be in need of paper, etc.
Notice.
—A. special train for Chicago will leave Notre Dame Station on the Michigan Central R. R. at o. 30 on Wednesday morning, Dec. 23, for the accommodation of the students of Notre Dame and S lint Mary’s going home for the Holidays. Parents are requested to meet their children on the arrival of the train at the Michigan Central Depot in Chicago.
----------♦ ..... ■ . - ■
The Minim’s Soliloquy.
VERSES FOUND IN THE MINIMS’ PLAYGROUND.
My name’s Neddie Fox, To begin—
And I’m waiting for that box— But’s too thiu.
’Spose it comes, now, And nothin’ in’t, There’ll be a row, You bet, in print. That other feller, lie's got liis’i), In consequence of which His spirits ris’n ;— He crows at me, Does that same Jim: ’ Wish I could Put a head on him.
.	a CP*- ~ - —
The Minims’ Seance.
The Minims had often heard of “ dark circles,” “ magic,” etc., but never until last Tuesday evening did they realize the marvellous tricks of science, when their zealous and active Director, Brother Albert, treated them to a perfect little gem of an Entertainment. We had the good fortune to be present, and can state from experience that it was a complete success. At precisely 8 o’clock, the prepaia-lions being all completed and the audience seated, the curtain—contrary to custom—went down, the lights followed to keep it company, and the director of the entertainment, Prof. Zahm, of the Chair of Chemistry and Physics, took his place beside the table and proceeded at once to bring before his astonished and anxious audience group after group of little men and women, being a complete exposition of the private and public follies and idiosyncrasies of a great public character—according to Mother Goose. We saw how the hero of the magic tale spent his youthful days, how a little later he carefully brushed his clothes, and sallied forth to serenade his lady-love, how he went skating, and how well he succeeded; how he broke the hearts of all the village belles, how he stormed the castle and brought home his beautiful bride in triumph (the procession headed by a martial band), how he became economical and deposited his money in a silicous bank, how he wished to entertain his friends and at the same time accumulate riches, and how well he didn’t succeed, and at last how death carried him away, leaving nothing but four broken candlesticks and three empty glasses. (The applause was loud and frequent). Some beautiful views of Rome, including St. Peter’s and the Castle of St. Angelo, were next presented’. Village scenes followed, the best of •which were the blacksmith working at his forge and the butcher- counting his stealcs. The magic words, “Good
Night” concluded ihe first part, of the Entertainment.
The second part of the Entertainment consisted of experiments with the electric battery and apparatus. The Minims were astonished and delighted. One after another felt confident that he could pull the top off the Leyden jar, and looked completely nonplussed when he found the jar was’ empty. They could not understand Wheie that spark of fire came from, and all agreed that it was “ queer.” They felt a little dubious about “that stool with the glass feet,” and were amazed to see the bright flashes of lightning, but wondered “ where the thunder had gone to.”
A little after nine the Entertainment terminated notwithstanding the Minims wanted to see more, and each came to the conclusion, “that Prof. Zahm is a wonderful man.”
We noticed among the audience a number of distinguished visitors, among which were the Rev. Father Toohey and Rev. F. Frere, who showed by their hearty ap-' preciation that they had not forgotten the time when they too were Minims.
We feel assured that our little friends will second our vote of thanks to Bn>. Albert, Rev. Mr. Zahm, and all who assisted in this pleasant little scientific entertainment.
Minimus.
Art Notes.
—We expect to publish soon a number of articles on Art and Artists.
—The miniature of the late Father Lemonnier painted by Prof. Gregori is very fine.
—Busts of Millon and Shakespeare now decorate the room of the Circulating Library.
—The stained glass windows for the new Church are now in the Custom House in New York city.
—Prof. Gregori is now engaged in paintingthe “Stations’’ for the New Church. The figures in each arc to be nearly life size.
—The members of the Drawing Class are getting very enthusiastic about their work. That’s right. Unless you have enthusiasm for what you do it will be hard to become an artist.
Musical Notes.
—The Father Gillespie Choral Union will perfect their organization after Christmas.
—Prof. Paul executed a number of fine moreceaux before the Mendelssohn Club last Tuesday.
—Peters Musical Monthly, containing a number of pretty pieces, easy for beginners, has been sent to us.
—The Father Gillespie Choral Union will sing “The Heavens are Telling” at the Exhibition to-night.
—Tiie first soiree of the scholastic year will be given in the College Parlor on Monday evening, Dec. 21st.
—The Gwcilia for December is filled with, the usual amount of good reading. We are pleased to see that the energetic publishers send six pages of music with each number.
—“Souvenirs de la Patrie” is the title.of an excellent composition by Prof. Mayr. It shows that the gentleman is possessed of much ability, and augurs well as to his future fame as a composer.
Lemonnier Memorial Chapel Fund.
University of Notre Darae, Indiana...............§ 500 00
Prof. T. E. Howard, Notre Dame, Indiana........... 10	00
J. W. Smith, Esq , Chicago, Illinois............. 100	00
M. Livingston, Esq., South Bend, Indiana.......... 10	00
D. Riopelle. Etq., Detroit, Michigan.............  10	00
Mrs. M. Edwards Basset, Toledo, Ohio.............. 25	00
J. D. McCormick, Laneaster, Ohio................... 5	00
J. Ruddiman, Chicago, Illinois..................... 5	00
Harold V. Hayes, Chicago, Illinois................. 5	00
M. J. Murphy, Brooklyn, N. Y....................... 1	50
G. Rudge, Jr., Youngstown, Ohio.................... 2	00
M S. Foote, Burlington, Iowa....................   10	00
John H. Gillespie. Notre Dame, Indiana'.......... .	25 00
J. F. Rudge, Youngstown, Ohio.................... .	2 00
J. E. Obert, Reading, Pensylvania.................. 3	00
THE SCHOLASTIC.	173
Boll of Honor. ■
SEXIOK DEPARTMENT.
- W. Armstrong, V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, F. Bearrs, R, Barrett, L. Chamberlain, J. Crtiminey, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, T. Carroll, M. Clarke, J. Dryfoos, W. Dechant, F. Devoto, M, Egan, B. Euans, J. E>ving, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Girard, E. Graves, T. Grier, G. Hoyt,"J. Handley, T. Hansard, A. Horne, J, Hogan, F. Hebard, J. Ingram, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Koph, M. Keeler, J. LarkingP. Lawrence, J. Logsdon, G. McNulty, R. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavin, T, Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, E, McLaughlin, J. McManus, Patrick Mattimore, Peter Mattimore, E. Maas, J. Ney, A. 0 Brien, T. O’Leary, C. Otto, J. Obert, T. O’Mahony, G. Proctor, G. Roulhac, J. Retz, C. Robertson, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, P. Skahill, F.Sehlink, S. Studebaker, P. Shaul, G. Summers, J. Thornton, R. White, J, Waalen, C. Wisner, L, Zeitler.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. '
J. Beegan, W. Byrne, A. Bergck, F. Buckman, G. Budd, J. Claffey, J. Crummey, E. Courtney, J. Colton, J. Dore. J. Delvecchio, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. Frazee, J. T. Foley, L. Goetig, J. M. Green, G. J. Gross, F. H. Goldsberry, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, C. Hake, A. Johansen, P. Kelly, J. P. Khrtz, H. Korty, C. V. Larkin, J. Lambin, J. Lynch, V. McKinnon, J. McIntyre, T. McNamara,_ J. McHugh, H. McGuire, W. S. Meyer, M. J. Murphy,'J. Nelson, D. J O’Connell, C. Peltier, C. R. Post, J. L. Perea, W. J. Ruelle, F. Raymond, L. Smith, J. A. Smith, W. S. Stout, J. F. Soule, T. J. Solon. T. Summers, W. Smith, P. Sehriurrer, H, Sickle, A. Thomas. N. Vanamee, C. W.
' Welty, C. J. Whipple, R. J. Walker, J. E. Wood.
•	’	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Ralph Golsen, Michael McAuliffe. Colly Clarke, Eddie Ray mond, Tommie H<>olej', Francis Carlin, Samuel Goldsberry Francis McGrath, Willie Cash, Eddie J. Dubois, John O’Meara, Albert Bushey, Harry Ordway, Louis Goldsmith, Hugh Colton, Charlie Bushey, Otto Lindberg, Joseph Carrer, Colly Cainpau, Alexis Campau, Willie Van Pelt, Sylvester Bushey.
Class Honors. ’
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, DECEMBER 17.
• '	PREPARATORY COURSE.
Senior Class—F. H. Farrell, G. W. floyt, P E. Lawrence, F. H. Schlink, R. Mails, E. Chalfant, C. Favey, S. Kennedy, J. Kennedy, J. McManus, L. Chamberlain, R. White, E. Gault, F. G. Beards, H. Hoffman, ft, Barrett, W Dougherty, P. Mattimore, E. Ayers, Peter, Mattimore, T. Carroll, J. Whalen, L. Zeitler, F. Hebard.
Junior Class—J.Nelson, J. Delvecchio, F. Ewing, E. Gleason, F. Raymond, C. Whipple, J. Wood, H. Faxon, W. Stout, C. Post, P.Schnurrer, J. Kurtz, A.Betehvr, F. Hoffman, C. Larkin, M. Kramer, W. Meyer, J. Foley, F. Goldsberry, L. Goetig, C. Hitchcock, J. Soule, J. Kielly, A. Thomas, ‘P. Kelly, A. H. Mitchell, E. Washbumc, F. Kleiner, N. Vanamee, R. H. McGrath, J. Connolly, P. C. Budd, J. M. Crummey, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, C. Peltier, W. Byrne, J. Colton, J. Smith, W. Smith, J. Lynch, D. Claffey.
Minim Department—Eddie R lymond. Colly Clarke, Ralph Golsen, Francis Carlin, Lee J. Frazee, Oscar Bell, Francis Campau, Sylvester Bushey, John Duffield, Michael McAuliffe, Willie Lindsey, Willie Van Pelt, Daniel P. Nelson, Clement Moody, Samuel Goldsberry,- Colly Campau, Charlie Bushey, Tommie Hooley, Hugh Colton.
SAISTT MAST’S
—Literary emulation promises much fruit.
—Competitions in Geology Class are very exciting.
—In the list given last week of officers elected by the Children of Mary, the name of the Librarian, Miss Anna Lloyd, was omitted.
—There are rumors afloat of an “ exclusive feast,” which ■was given on the 10th, to commemorate the “name day,” of a certain member of Hie Graduating Class.
—Rev. Father Cooney gave a lucid and beautiful exposition of the devotion to Loreto, on the evening of the 10th. The lecture was delivered in the Chapel of the Immaculate Conception.
—Most lively competitions arc going on in the classes. Hard study is the order of the day. Some young ladies would like to add several hours to each day, so as to have more time to study.
—The first No. of SleMa iTiris,a. paper issued by the Second Senior Class, was re id o.i Sunday night. The readers were the Misses Emma York,Lizzie Ritchie, Mary Dailey, and Fannie Bilger. The beautiful cover was ex- ' ecu ted by Miss Belle Wade.
—The Graduating Class has been challenged to resume the contest for the palm of excellence. The superior talent of that Class is ready.to meet the summons. ■
—The pupils who visit home for the Christmas Holidays will leave on the 22nd, at S A. M., and are required to return on tbe2 id of January i875. Only the morning Classes will be continued during the last week of December, the afternoons will be devoted to social enjoyments.
—Thursday the 10th was the Feast of Loreto. The first Mass offered in the Chapel,—(the facsimile of the Holy__ House)—was at half past 5 o’clock A. M., and was said by Rev. P. P. Cooney. The second was at 6, A. M. and was was offered by Very Rev. Father General. The third was for the Children of Mary, and was ottered by Rev.. Father Vagnier, at half past six. Rev. Father Toohey, •at half past seven o’clock, also said Mass in the House of Loreto. As is usual on this festival, the Children of Mary breakfasted in the “ Grotto.”
TABLET OF HONOR,
FOR THE WEEK ENDING DECEMBER 13, 1S74.
For Politeness, Neatness, Ord er, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled : . Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smitli.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fan- ' ning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, L Bradford, J. Stimson, E. Sweeney, A. St. Clair, M. Johnson.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Daley, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, J. McGuire, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, F. DeLong, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E, Dougherty, J. Ntinning, L. Tms’ey, B. Wade, M. Julius.
3rd. Sr Class—Misses L. Kelly, M. Dunbar. C. Woodward. L. Johnson. M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson. M. Quill, R. Neteler, M. Biady, P. Gaynor, R. Canoil, L. Henroten, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh,_R. Klarr, A Byrnes, M. Roberts, F. Taylor, B. Spencer, lx. Spencer, M. Bryson.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Poquette, E. McAuliffe, C. Thayer, A Duncan, M. Sbiel. R. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Quill, S. Hole, H. Russell, E. Bowman, S. Moran.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, H. Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, S. Cunningham, L. Mead, E. Cody, M. McKay, E. McFarlane, B. Turnbull, L. Moran, A. Smith, S. Reising, C. West, M. Anthony, E. Botsford.
3rd Prep. Class—Miss> s C. Maigrey, F. Reppetan, L. Brownbridge, G. Hills, A. Lehman, M. Railton, M. Quinn.
ROLL OF HONOR.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, M. Carlin, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Ewing, M. Schultheis, A. Cullen, M. Siler, B. Siler. M. Reynolds, A. Allen, M. Jackson, J. Brown, S. Cash, I. Yates, C.'Yates, L. Kirchner, A. Goewey. F. Middleton, M Hogan, L. Hutchinson. L. Vinson, N. M-Grath, J. McDougall, M. Hoffman, A. Koch, B. Golsen, E. Lappin, C. Orr, E. McDougall, K. Hudson, J. Corrigan and M. Derby.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	•
Misses A. Ewing, N. Mann, I. Mann, R. Goldsbery, Y. Mier, L. and A. Schnurrer.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC. ...
honorably mentioned in vocal MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses N. Foote, E. O’Connor, L. Henroten, E. Haggerty.
2nd" Class—Misses J. Riopelle, J. Kearney.
2nd Div.—Misses B. Spencer, M. Riley, E. Dougherty, J. Locke, A. Smith, L. Bradford.
3rd Class—Misses C. West, L. Arnold, M. Jackson, C. Orr, M. Johnson, .C. Morgan, A. Curtin, M. Walker, H. Peak.
174
SCHOLASTIC
2nd Div.—Misses J. Bennet, E. Bowman, M. Walsh, A. Walsh, L. Walsh, A. Allen, A. Koch.
SCHOOL OF DESIGN.
DRAWING.
3rd Class—MissR. Net t ier.
4th Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Cnllen.
5th Glass—Misses M. R. Kian-. A Koch, M. O’Connor, M. A. Scbuliheis, M. E-ving, L Arnold, M. Thompson, E. Thompson. P. Gaynor E Lange, A. Sweeney, J. Stimson, L. Vinson, F. Tay lor, E. Lippin.
WATER COLORS.
4th Class—Miss L. Ritchie.
5th Class—Misses B. Wade, E. Sweeney, C. Morgan, L. Henroten, N. McAuliffe.
- HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE LATIN CLASS.
Misses E. Qni.ilan, D. Green, A. Byrnes, E. Yotk, K. Grace, M. Brady, E Dougherty, A. Smith, J. McGuire, N. Foote, E Sweeney’, J. Locke.
1st French Class, 1st Div.—Misses J. Kearney and M. Walker.
2nd Div—Misses J. Kreigb, M. and E. Thompson, S. Harris, M. Poqneite, F. Dilger. J. Siimso.i, K. Joyce, L. Tinsley, B. Wilson, A. Harris. N. McGrath.
2nd French Class, 1st Div —Misses L. Bradford, A. T. Clarke, M. Riley, LI. Rus« Il, A Dilger. C. Morgan, A. Lloyd, K Hutchinson. L. McK'mmm, A. McGrath.
2nd Div.—Misses E. Haggerty, L. Ritchie, P. Gaynor, R. Canoll, M. Wicker.
3rd Class—B. Spencer, K. Sp'-ncer, L. Wyman, L. Arnold, A. WalS'i, G. Wal'on, J Fanning, C. Woodward, A. St. Clair, M. Daily, J. Be mett, B. Gulsen, M. Johnson,
1st German Clas-i—Mi-s s B. Gols-.n, A Harris, M. Schultheis. 8 Harris, L. Kirchner, J. Running.
2nd Class—Misses 8. Rvising, M. Julius, A. O’Connoi. M. Dunbar, L. Kelly, L Vine- m, A Koch.
3rd Class—Misses H. Peak, B. Wade, L. Walsh, F. Middleio<>, J: and E. McDougall.
Plain Sewing—A. Lloyd. L. Ritchie, A. Curtin, R. Green, E Haggerty, A Smith, A Clarke, J. Fanning, M, Rielly, E Bradford, K. Joyce. J. Stimson, A. St. Clair, M. Johnson. E D nm-hey, A Dilg r, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, M Roberts, S Harris, S. M«>ran, E. Mann, J. Slough, M. Shields. M Poqneite, M. Quill.
Fancy Work—Misses L. Bradford, M. Riley, E. and M. Thompson, R. Neteler, S. Harris, J Bennett, K. Greenleaf, E. Yorke, M. McKay, C. Morgan, F. DiLong, C. West. M. Aninony, H P eak, K Hudson.
—A m tn went, into a butcher’s shop and, finding the owner’s wife in attendance, in the absence of her husband thought he would have a joke at her expense, and said: “Madon*, can von supply me with a yard of pork?” “ Yes s r,’’ she said; and then, turning to a boy, she added : “Jame, give that g nleinan three pig’s feet.”
The Magnificent ORGAN now Used in the Church at Notre Dame,
So much admired for its sweetness and power, containing 36 Stops and 1,709 Pipes. PRICE $3,500— to be paid: §1000 cash, and the rest in 6, 12 and 18 months, with interest.
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for §5,000. The reason why it is offered for sale is solely because the place fur the organ in the New Church does not admit of its depth, which is 12x18 feet.
Address, nov 7-tf.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, Notre Dame, Indiana.
J. STAGE,
COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of Laud Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
^"Orders expeditiously attended to
Office with 31. Stover, Room 22s over Wills <fc Sterns,
Washington St., South Bend. Indiana.
nov 28-J£tf.
CARPENTER ™ HATTER I
105 MICHIGAN St. dec 5;£tf.
SOUTH BEND.
THE
BOND HOUSE,
Niles, • -	-	-	-	_ Michigan.
A, WcKlT, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house ■nov 28-tgtf.
THE SUN. “
WEEKLY AND DAILY FOR 1875.
' »■
Theapproach of the Presidential election gives nnnsnal importance to the dents and dev<>lopnicts of 1875 We shall endeavor to describe them fully, f lilbfnlly, and fearlessly
THE WEEKLY bUN h-v-now attained a circulation of over seventy thousand copies. Its readers are found in every S’ate and Territory, and its quality is well known to the public. We shill not. onlv en-oeavor to keen It fully up to the old standard, but to improve and add to its variety and power.
THE WEtKLY SUN will continue to be a thorough newspaper. All the newsof the day will be found in it,'condensed when unimpor taut, at full length when of moment, and always, we trust, treated in a clear, interesting and instructive manner.
ItisonraimtomaketlieWEEKLYSUN the best family newspaper in the world. It will be fall of entertaining and appropriate reading of every sort,but will print nothing to oflend the most scrupulous and delicate taste. It will always contain the most interesting stories and romances of the day, carefully selected and legibly printed.
The Ag {cultural Department is a prominent feature in the WEEKLY SUN, and its articles will aiways be found fresh and useful to the farmer.
The number of men independent in politics is increasing, and the WEEKLY SUN is theirpaper especially. It belongs to no party, and obeys no dictation, contending for principle, and for the election of the best men. It exposes the corruption that disgraces the country, and threatens the overthrow of republican institutions. It has no' fear'of knaves, and seeks no favors from their supporters.
The markets of every kind and the fashions aie regularly reported in its column'.
Tae price of the WEEKLY SUN is one dollar a year for a sheet of eight pages and fifty six columns. As this barely pavs the expenses of tne paper and printing, we are not able to make any discount or allowany premium to friends who may make special efforts to extend its circulation. Under the new law, which requires payment of postage in advance, one dollar a year, with twenty cents the cost of prepaid postage adaed, is the rate of subscription. It is not necessary to get up a club in order to have the WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Anyone who sends one dollar and twenty cents will get the paper post-paid for a year.	r -
We have no travelling agents.	dec 12-Gt.
TITH^E W	SUN.—Eight pages, fifty-six columns. Only	a. year, postage prepaid. No discounts from
this rate.	____ J
, THE UA-HTST SUN.—A large fonr-page newspaper of ’ tweeniy-eight columns. I ailv circulation over 120.000. All the news fo- 2 cents. Subscription, postage prepaid," 55 cents a month, or G oO a year. To clubs of IO or over, a discount of 20 per cent.
Address, “THE SUN,” New York city.

THE SCHOLASTIC.'
143
THE
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
Particularly Devoted to ths Holy Mother of God.
Published Weekly at
NOTRE DAMS, INDIANA.
ENCOURAGED AND APPROVED BY
HIS HOLINESS POPE PUTS IX,
And Hany Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the interests ot the Blessed Virgin, is addressed .not to nominal Christians. but solely to su< h as love the Mother of Jesus and wish to see her honored throughout the land; commending itself not only to the various pious Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady—such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— but tothe whole community. ■
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of Mass once a month.
a Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four installments Within the space of one year.
Terms :
One Year, -	-	-	-	-	§3 00
Two Years, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	5 On
Five Years,	10 00
Life Subscription, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	20 00
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, fo» notice, etc, should be addressed to
Editor of “AVE NARTA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
JIOTI^E pAME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy < ross, is situated on the bt. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Kailroad, and two miles from the flourishing city of South Bend.
The site of Sr. Mary's is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. 1c would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages Io meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rive, s in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes iuspiie activuy and energy, • while the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana
• NATIONAL HOTEL,
Soutli Bend, Indiana.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern bailway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
OSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend alt the comforts of home. Convryuuces to
and from the College and St. Mary's can be procuied at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS E. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7-8m
CANDY! CANDY! '
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
OJAHSTZONT IFAOTOBY
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	15c.
Pine Mixed Candy -	25e.
Choice Mixed Candy _	_	_	350.
Caramels ------ 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25e.
JPi’opox’tionately Low Prices to Wliole-sale Caslx Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door
o2 ,-tf
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
---0--
M. LIVINGSTON & CO.,
9<L ATicliigan St., Sontli Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURNISHING GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything yon want in our Line will always be found on our shelves.
Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-takim* scaacely ever =een in Ready-Hade or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than ihe same material would cost if made: to measure. Money is scarce bin Clothing is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. -We have a full Stock of do til S. Cassi-meres and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Puces are about One Third Lower than any other house'in the business.	o24-tf.
HORTON & PALMER,
DEALERS IX -
Pianos, Organs, Guitars, Stools, fevers, Strings,
SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS,
AND ALL KINDS OF
MUSICAL MERCHANDISE.
---o--
Instruments tuned and repaired in the best manner and at the lowest prices.
Ho. 72 Washington street, - South Bend, Indiana.
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cob. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
Over Coonley's Drug. Store,
South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every
Wednesday morning at S o’clock. He has on
hand pbotographsof the Professors of the
University, members of the Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring I 024-11
wwwwrtt

THE SCHOLASTIC,;
BOOTS & SHOES.
TO THE STUDENTS!
Before Buying Your Boots and Shoes,
—WE INVITE—
YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION*
—TO—
OUR LARGE and COMPLETE STOCK,
SELECTED WITH GREAT CARE —And—
Superior to any ever offered in this City.
—o— WE FEEL WARRANTED IN SAYING —THAT— FROM OUR FACILITIES
—AND—
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE
—IN THE—
Boot and Shoe Business hi South Bend,
We can offer greater inducements to buyers than other dealers
We keep Honest Work, Glean Stock, Latest Styles, which we will sell at Low Prices.
We pledge ourselves to please all who may favor us with a call.	Respectfully,
B. H. BAKER, & Bro.,
1OO Michigan Street, o24-2m	South Bend, Indiana.
L. S. & M. SERAIL WAY.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 a. x. (No.,8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 3J; Cleveland, 2.35 p. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10*38 A. x. (No. 2}, Mail, overMa— n Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p. x.; Cleveland, io 20
12.27 A- x. (No. 4), special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 50; Cleveland, 10.10 P. x.; Buffalo 4 05 a. x.
9.11 p. x. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05: Buffalo. 1.10 p. x.
7.54 p. x. (No. 10) Toledo Express. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.3J a. x., Clevelaud 7.05 a x., Buflalo 1'10 p. x.
3.55 p. x. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.20 a. m. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. x.
4.50 a. x. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago, 8 00 a. x.
5,5 3 p. x. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 655; Chicago, 9.10 p. x.
4.51 p. x. (No. 1). Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 5.45; Chicago, 8 00.
s.oo a. x. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. x , Chicago 11.10.
730 a. x. [No. 71] Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PaRSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent. ’
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’ i
Z.OUISVIZ'Z'S ALBANS' & CHICAGO H.H.
On and ufter Sunday, Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albanyana
Salem Crossing, as follows: GOING NOR TH.
Pass ................7 29	P.	x.
Freight.............2.48	a.	x.
Freight.............8.57	p.	m.
Pass......- _______ ,9.24 a. m.
GOING SON TH.
Pass .................8	23 p.k
Freight.............".10 47 am.
Freight......."....4.45	a.m.
Pass..,,..., -....11.23a.m.
H. N. CANIFF. Agent.
Michigan Central Railroad..
WINTER ARRANGEMENT, Taking effect December 6th, lb74.
Going East.
Trains.	Leave Cnicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit.
Mail -	-	-	5 no a m	9 02 a m	5 45 pm
Day Express -	- 8 30 a m	11 47 a m	6 30 pm
Accommodation	3 35 p m	7 35 pm	
Atlantic Express	- 5 15 p m	8 53 p m	3 30 am
Night Express -	- 9 00 p m .	12 45 p m	8 00 am
	Going	"West.	
Trains.	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	-	7 00 a m	. 4 05 pm	8 05pm
Day Express -	- 10 20 a m	5 20 pm	9 00pm
Accommodation -	1 50 p m	6 3U a in	10 35 a m
Evening Express	- 5 40 p m	• 2 3'i am	6 3 > a m
Pacific Express -	- 10 20 p m	5 00am	8 30 am
	AIR LINE	DIVISION.	
	Groing East.		
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit.
Mail -	5 00 am	9 10 am	5 45 p m
Three Rivers Ac.	- 3 35 p m	7 40 p m	
Atlantic Express	- 515 p m	91'0 p m	3 30 am
	. Going West.		
Trains.	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail. -	-	•	TOiarii	3 50pm	8 05 pm
Throe Rivers Ac.,		61" am	10 35 a m
Pacific Express -	- 10 20 pm	' 4 55 a m	8 30 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 00 a m, 11 00 a m. 6 30 p m, *9 00 a m, *7 00 pm. Arrive at Niles—S 45 a m, 1145 a m 710 p m * 9 40 a m, * 7 40 p m. Leave Niles—6 30 a m. 9 20 a m, 510 p m," 8 00 a m, +5 00 p m.
Arrive at South Bend—715 a m, 10 00 a m. 5 55 p m, + 8 4i) a m, + 5 40 p m NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive from South Bend and leave f-'r rhe East, via Niles,
8 07 am. 1108 am, 6 18 pm,+ 9 07 am, +7 07pm.
Arrive from Niles and depart for Sonrh Bend.
7 07 am, 9 42 a ra, 5 46 pm, +8 32 am, +5 32 pm.
Trains marked thus ’ + run Sundays only.
C.	D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Wesrern Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
.B. CELH.STINE. Ticket Agent, NotreDame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH.	W. B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
(Sff RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Qj) Madison. Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night* Express, via Mairi Line,
St.Louis and Spri ngneld Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE.
ARRIVE.
*9:30 a.m.
♦8:00 p.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m
♦9:30 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 ,m.
$9:00 p.m.
97:15 a.m,
$9:45 pan. §7:15 a.m
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex> cept Saturday. 6 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and, Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, . _ Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO. ’	CHICAGO
PEAXSYLVA.MA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TEA0K EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Twee daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.*
2d train	“	5.15 p.m.	“	“	6.41am*
3rd train	“	*•	9.00. p. m.	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannefield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCOLLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D.	M. BOYD,- Jn., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phietphia.
F. R. MYEKS. Geu’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day.SJ	: