The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS.
I>isce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 3, 1875.	’ ‘ Number 28.
JNO. HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG.
—	City Judge.	Notary Public.
^AGERTY & TONG,
attorneys-at-law, REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd. Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o21-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
S. PECKS,
Dealer in
‘ ■ HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf <	South Bend, Indiana.
X
J) J. HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS, —ALSO—	‘
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS LN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
1OO MICHIGAN St.. - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST,
No. 96 Michigan, Street, ’	- South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m
Do you want a drive ? Go to jgEN COQUILLARD’S	-
LIVERY STJLBLES Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South. Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUSE
Niles, ----- Michigan.
A. McKAY, Proprietor,
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the ho us ■	dot 28-%tL
Jg NICAR & Co.,
* HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., o24-tf
•y NICAR,
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF	’	’
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO—
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. ,	o-24-tf
J. STAGE,
* COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
'^“Orders expeditiously attended to.. 40
Office with M. Stover, Boom 22, over Wills & Sterns Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
.	nov 28-%tf.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
Son tlx Bend, Indiana	-
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Bailway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their I stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Atary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7-8m
Q.EORGE HEHR,
. FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
’	AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND.
(Up Stairs.)	*	%o24-tf
/ M. A. Smith.	E. P* Holloway.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY,
Dealers in
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, Ohromos, Pictures, Notions, Toys and Musical Instruments.
No. Tl, Washington St., □	- -SOUTH BEND, IND
dec5-J43m
402
SCHOLASTIC
jjalmer & Vanwinkle,
Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, .
Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
JRELAND & SON,
PROPRIETORS OF
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE, ~
No. 54= MICHIGAN Si
SOUTH BEND, IND.,
^Opposite the Dwight House). --------------o---- EtA-CIC JLINE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City,
and to the College and St. Mary’s.
%o242m
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
p DUBAIL,	.
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER.
71 Washington St.,
South Bend, Ind
Mt. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory-He will be in attendance eveiy Wednesday at the College at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
R. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST
109 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
^DWARD BUYSEE,
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc., 76 Michigan Street, '
South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. J$-tf
Nos. 33 & 34 Michigan Street, . South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
. ------------0---
DROP IN AT	’
“THE NIKE CENT STORE!”
AND
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.
TRE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE, .
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
—-	J
"It .TESSBS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the	1
■lyJL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and	I
furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay, JERKY-KNIGHT,)
o24-tf
CAPTAIN MILLS,
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
-----o----
M. LIVINGSTON & OOI,
94 ATieliigan St., Soutli Bend, Ind.
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURNISHING GOODS,
All goods sold are guaranteed.
o24-tf
EUROPEAN HOTEL
M. BURKE, Proprietor.
OUB stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves. Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but do tiling is Clieap. If you don’t believe it,-drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of dotlis. Cassi-meres and ‘Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than
any other house in the "business.
o24-tf.
14=0 and. 14=2 ACadison Street.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
(Detween Claris and LaSalle,)
ILL.
For the Best Confectionery, go to
f6 3m.
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT.
99 MAIN STBEET,
- SCUTE BEND, INDIANA.
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
F.
105 Michigan'St.,
South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old
English, on Watches, Kings and JBadges.
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
- ALWAYS ON HAND!
|®“ Fresh’Candies Made Daily.
£
■a
docl-Mtf.
J£o24-tf
A
The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE
OF THE 'OTUDENTS.
Dlsce quasi semper victuriis; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTBE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 3, 1875.	Humber 28.
Under the Ban. .	.
/I
BY J. M. J. Gl^/.'^
I.
Out of her home, when the sad autumn sun
Sank angry and red in the west,
Cast forth and despised by every one,
•The frail cause asleep on her breast;
Cast forth to the night, with a mother’s frown;
Cast forth with a father’s curse ;.
On to the heath from the peaceful old town, A poor little babe and—its nurse!
ii.
O God! not one human heart in that town
For the soul which had lost the fight 1
Only the passionless moon looking down On the young mother’s anguished flight.
No mercy!—no mercy! ” she sobs, “ for me;
No mercy above or below! ”—
And so she speeds on toward the foamy sea, Through the drifting mist and the snow.
in.
The rain sweeps past on its stormy path, Quick flit the red fires in the sky;
“ 'Tis His eyes,” she moans, “ and they flash in wrath, On the sinner who dares to die ! ”
She turns and looks back on the distant town—
On the lights of a thousand homes;
And the passionless moon looks ghostly down On the distant steeples and domes!
iv.
The voice of the thunder is like a groan, , As though Nature were stricken down With a grief which would, if it could, atone
For the crime of the heartless town;
The wailing wind from the mighty deep
Beseeches the frightened night
To stop with a merciful flash the leap
From the imminent, dizzy height I
v.
Louder still louder the ocean’s strong heart
Throbs in its maddened unrest;
Fierce moves the sea’s white arms apart
To clutch the poor doomed to its breast. .
The syren of Mistland murmurs low:— “ O beautiful halls of the deep!
Come down to my emerald vales below, Where peace lulls the soul to sleep I”
vi.
“ I will trust the justice of Heaven,” she wept, “ Though my soul be sin-opprest!
I will creep to the spot where Magdalene crept ;— My shield sweet asleep on my breast!
O innocent little one, cling to me, .
For I dare not, babe, die alone!
Child, child of much sorrow and sin shall it be,— We part at the Great Judge’s throne * ”
vn.
A flash! and behold! before her stood
. A Cross white as snow, then—the night: She stood in the rush of the raging flood, And paused in her hopeless flight:
“ O holy guerdon of grace! ” she cried, With a pang like the wound of a dart,—	•
“ Sweet pity for sinners, by sinners denied, Glows warm in Christ’s beautiful Heart!”
vm.
Oh, it is well when one’s rushing to death On the wings of despair, to meet •
The Cross of Christ on the banks of Lethe, With its voice so tender and sweet!
Down fell Christabelle on the rugged rock, With the little one in her arms,
With a sense of strange joy, which seemed to mock The storm and its wild alarms!
IX.
Sweep, pitiless rain, o’er the storm-lashed heath! Look out from the sky, weird moon;
Look scornfully down through thy cloudy wreath, On the image of God—a min !	"
- Whence comes that sweet voice ?—“Baptize thy child! ”■ Gently she bares the frail head, And there, at the Cross, on the barren wild, Obeys ; then the child smiles—is dead!
x.
How she strained the dead to her aching breast, Only a mother can feel;
O sad, sad mother, when death is best And life is the last appeal!
She raises her eyes :—that Form! ’Tis Hb !— “ Thy babe has spoken! ” He smiled— Then she clasped His Feet, by the sad, sad sea, And Christabelle found her child!
xr.
“ Found dead on the moor, mother and child, Pity them both who can ;
Cover them up in some hidden wild; ■ 0 Saints, they died under the ban!
Stand ye afar, 0 stainless of earth! ” Flee from the sinful clod!
Tour pardon she sought in her soul’s sad dearth, But found it alone with God!
XII.
Ye Pharisee hypocrites! go your ways, In your golden and purple pride!
Was it ye she offended in the dark days When her angel wept by her side ?
Spurn with the foot of your holy conceit The poor heart all racked and riven, E’en while it bleeds at the Father’s Feet, And hears all its sins forgiven!
404
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Inventions and Discoveries.
In. glancing over the history of civilization and the growth of humanity, it strikes us that long periods of time often show but a slow and gradual progress. From time to time, a few inventions and discoveries of eminent men suddenly kindle a perfect revolution in all the spheres of human affairs. To trace to their source these changes so Wrought, present to the historian and scientist one of the most interesting subjects.
The causes of great inventions and discoveries have generally been small; their results always incalculable. The most ancient of these great events, namely, the invention of written characters to convey language, is wrapped in complete darkness. The most distinguished people of antiquity—the Greeks—emerged from obscurity into history with a language complete in everything except written characters. For many centuries the songs of Homer wandered from mouth to mouth before they were entrusted to the more permanent support of graphic symbols.
The history of the progress of the two greatest nations of antiquity, the Greek and Roman, is wanting in important Inventions. Amid the cheerful enjoyments of nature and its many beauties, intellect flourished in Greece as it never before or afterwards flourished in any other country. But the palmy days of Pericles, “ the age of golden fantasy,” soon passed away, and Greece succumbed first to the Macedonian and then to the Roman conqueror. Rome developed herself into political greatness only. Stripped of her warlike achievements, the scientific greatness of Rome was but a shadow in comparison with the culture of Greece.
No invention of any lasting benefit to mankind sprang from the Romans. Even the weapons of war with which she achieved all her greatness and glory remained the same, with very slight modifications, through succeeding generations, until the invention of gunpowder. Indeed, until the invention of this article we may say the aspect of society was not essentially changed. A bit of charcoal, a nitre crystal and a few grains of sulphur, mixed together, formed a compound which rent mountains and crushed the most massive walls. After this the state of society was completely changed. All the then known systems of attack and defense were overthrown, and the nation most advanced in science became the most powerful. The history of the discovery of gunpowder is yet a myth; the occasion of its discovery is thought by many to have been an accident.
Next came a series of important discoveries, all of which have played a most important part in the advancement and refinement of society. The compass enabled the timid mariner to venture out on the unknown ocean; the telescope revealed to the wondering eyes of man the positions and phenomena of the celestial bodies. The laws of the pendulum, of compressed air, and of the circulation of the blood, furnished most important aid in the work of civilization.
Although the above-mentioned events were productive of great results, none of them can be compared to that Which we will now consider, namely, the invention of the Art of Printing. Many inventions have since been made Which involve far higher intellectual endowments than that of printing, but none before or since, as regards influence, can be even remotely compared to that which rendered the sources of knowledge accessible to all—the
Printing Press. With the invention of printing, history commenced to make more rapid strides; and although events occurred a few centuries later which originated from the printing press and greatly diminished the blessings.of-the invention, still its importance cannot be too highly considered, as many improvements which have since sprung up, and which have proved of incalculable value to man, would not have come to light without the aid of the Press. This vast capital of great inventions and discoveries, handed down to us by former generations, modern humanity has immeasurably increased. Indeed, the number of great inventions which have come to light since is so great that we can only consider two events which occurred in the second half of the last century, and which have changed the entire social condition of humanity: the one an invention, that of the Steam Engine: the other a discovery, that of Oxygen. The importance of the steam engine requires no comment; its advantages are too well known and appreciated to be unfolded here in detail. The steam which to-day gushes from the locomotive is but-an equivalent of the rays of the sun, which were stored up as carbon in the vegetable world from time immemorial. By combining this carbon again with oxygen, we produce the same amount of heat which disappeared during the growth of these plants. The steam generated by this heat we allow to push against a movable obstacle, and to this obstacle we attach the resistances to be overcome; a grindstone a number of looms, or a train of cars.
We now come to a discovery of an altogether different importance. On the 1st of August, 1774, Priestly, an English clergyman and naturalist, for the first time performed an experiment now quite common in experimental chemistry. He heated red oxide of mercury in a small glass retort, and obtained a colorless gas with drops of liquid mercury. This gas he collected over a glass of water, as we do to-day, and filled a jar with pure oxygen. Here was a grand discovery, which was to eclpse anything heretofore discovered, which was to initiate a new era into the world! And yet error still swayed the mind of man. Oxygen was indeed discovered, but its value was not recognized. The phenomena of combustion, which at present is ascribed to the union of oxygen with combustible bodies, was then thought to be caused by the escape of an unknown fire substance. At length, Lavoisier showed that combustion was but the combination of a substance with oxygen; he also showed that oxygen was a simple body or element. This conception formed the basis of an exact science, andthe victory of a much contested discovery was complete.
Since the discovery of oxygen, the process of invention and discovery have been uninterrupted; every few months has brought forth some new and important revelation of science. Let us glance over the past. In 1824, the first locomotive dashed over the track, and already our political and social conditions depend in a great measure on this invention. But where would our railroads be, if we could not roll rails ? Where would the rails come from without the puddling furnace? And, again, where would the furnaces be without a knowledge of the flame ? And this knowledge is simply the result of the study of chemical science, which, in turn, can be traced .back to the discovery of oxygen. The whole series of modern inventions dates from that glass of water in which Priestly first collected oxygen. Not a member of that series could have been

THE SCHOLASTIC.
405
passed by, not a link of that chain be wanting, without rendering the remaining links impossible. We can therefore fearlessly assert that the pressent favorable condition of modern society had its rise in the discovery of oxygen. .
Rudolph.
American Artists.
To no one acquainted with the stately parlors of old families in New England can the name or the merits of John Singleton Copley be unfamiliar. The grace and youthful charms of many a dame who moved among the highest circles of the Colonial aristocracy, and was afterwards famous among the heroines of the war for Independence, were perpetuated by his pencil and brush. The elegance of these female portraits is so remarkable that they are worthy of the regard of others besides their descendants. And when we consider that many of these were -painted before he had seen the famous pictures of the Old World, we are obliged to concede a great deal either to the beauty of his sitters or to the taste and native genius of the artist ' himself.
Copley was born in Boston, on the 3rd of July, 1737. His father was of English descent, had resided in Ireland, and after marrying a lady of that country, removed to America. His son was educated in America, and to her he owed his first inspirations. These came to him very early. When only seven, or eight years old, he was found apart from the family for hours at a time, diligently tracing on the walls of a lonely room, with a piece of charcoal, groups of martial figures engaged in some nameless adventure.
Thus, unknown to each other, two distinguished artists were at the same time schooling .themselves in the rudr ments of art in the towns of America; attempting portraits of friends one day, historical compositions another, and studying, on every occasion that presented itself, the Apollos of the wilderness, as the Indian warriors were aptly called.
Copley’s earliest works were chiefly portraits and domestic groups, to which the wild forest scenery of America usually gave backgrounds. One of these pictures was sent in the year 1760, without any letter and without the artist’s name, to an Exhibition of the Royal Academy, England,— and merely called “ Boy and a tame Squirrel.” The naturalness of both the boy and his pet was so marked, and the coloring was so deep and vivid, that the Academicians were anxious to give it a good place. They did so, but were at a loss what to say about it in the catalogue. From the frame on which it was stretched being of pine, they called the work American. The surmise proved to be a correct one. The picture was a portrait by Copley of his half-brother, Harry Pelham, and was of such excellence that it won distinction for its author even before his name was known.
In 1767, when Copley was thirty years old, we find him well known to the admirers of art on both sides of the Atlantic; he was then a constant exhibiter in the British Royal Academy; was earning a decent subsistence by his art among the citizens of Boston; and was, moreover, sighing for a sight of the Sistine Chapel, and talking of great masters. In 1774, having arranged his affairs, left a few paintings in care of his mother, and put aside enough of his winnings for a three years’ soj ourn in the Old World, he set sail for Italy, by the way of England. On this journey
he visited Rome, Florence, Parma, Mantua, Venice, Inns-pruck, Augsburg, Stuttgardt, Mannheim, Coblentz, Cologne, Dusseldorf, U trecht, Amsterdam, Leyden,Rotterdam, Antwerp, Brussels, Ghent, Bruges, Lille, Paris, and Loudon. At Parma he made a long stay, and copied, while there, a fine Corregio. In the latter part of the year 1775, Copley reached London, and set up his easel at 25 George street, Hanover Square. In West he found a good friend, who introduced him to the Academy. In 1777, he became an Associate; and in February, 1783, the king sanctioned his election as a Royal Academician.	'	■
His battle pieces are as noble and spirited as his portraits are elegant. His last great work was “ The Resurrection;” and with this his labors -closed, with the exception of a portrait of his son Lord Lyndhurst, painted in 1814. He died 9th of September, 1815, aged seventy-eight years. His personal character was that of an honorable and accomplished gentleman.	-
His distinguished son, Lord Lyndhurst, continued to inhabit the artist’s house in George street,-Hanover Square, and made it an object to collect the works of his father’s pencil, in order to adorn the apartments in which they were produced.	E. A. S.
A Brief Sketch of Electric Telegraphs..
Now that Telegraphy has become an important branch, of study at Notre Dame, and that our chamber of lightning has attracted many of our commercial students during the past two years by the intelligent click of the key, we consider that a brief outline of this grand invention, which has placed the whole world in direct communication, would not at present be out of place.
Soon after it was discovered that electricity could be transmitted instantaneously to great distances, it was suggested to use it for signalling. Acting on this suggestion, Bishop Watson, of London, in 1747, after many long and tedious experiments, succeeded in transmitting a discharge from a Leyden jar through 10,600 feet of wire suspended between wooden poles.
A few years after Watson’s experiments, a plan for an alphabetical telegraph worked by electricity appeared in Scolt's UTagazine, but for some unknown cause electricians never experimented on it. A telegraph line was erected in Geneva by Lesage in 1744, consisting of twenty-four wires, each one of which was attached to a pith-ball electroscope representing a different letter. Reusser, in Germany, during the same year, proposed to replace the electroscopes by spangled panes exhibiting the letters themselves; but the great difficulties met with in managing frictional electricity prevented such schemes from producing beneficial results.
After this, we have a host of experimenters. Somnering, of Munich, proposed a plan in which the signals were given by the decomposition of water in thirty-five vessels, each being connected with a separate wire. Amp&re employed twenty-four needles,which were deflected by the currents of the same number of wires. Sir Francis Ronalds, in the year 1823, succeeded in sending intelligible messages through eight miles of insulated wire, using for his signal the divergence of the pith-ball of an electrometer; the wires to produce the result being charged with statical electricity.	'
These are only some of the many experiments that
406	THE SCHOLASTIC.
might be cited to show the ingenious contrivances to which many had recourse in bringing about the great result. However imperfect were the plans and schemes, and however absurd they appear to us to-day, we must admit that much benefit was reaped from their labors by their immediate successors; and the light which was thrown on the science by their experimenis, and .the errors into which they had fallen, cleared the way for the crowning experiments of Steinheil, Morse' and Wheatstone, and the estab-1 lishment of their systems. The former of those just mentioned, at the request of Weber and Gaus, considered the subject earnestly, and his inventions have contributed mote than those of any other individual to render electric telegraphs commercially practicable. Up to his time, return wires were used to convey back the electricity from its starting point; but he conceived the idea that earth connections might be made to supersede such an arrangement, thereby introducing into the science of telegraphy one of its greatest improvements, both in regard to economy by the suppression of one wire, and the greatly increased facility in the construction of long lines. This discovery was made while experimenting on a railway, with the view of ascertaining whether the rails could be em-ployed as lines of telsgraph. We must not suppose that electricity is conveyed from the receiving to the transmitting station by the earth. What the earth merely does is to drain off the accumulated electricity at both ends, and in this way they are kept at the same potential as if they were in actual contrast. Underground wires are however, sometimes employed. They are insulated by a coating of gutta-percha, and laid in pipes. This arrangement prevents the great leakage of electricity which occurs in air-lines, but their cost is greater, and on account of the inductive action between the wire and the conducting earth they are less suited for rapid signalling.
It was not until 1837 that electric telegraphs were first established as commercial speculations. These were put down by Wheatstone and Cooke in England, and about the same time Steinheiis’ system was carried out at Munich that Morris’ was in America. Cooke and Wheatstone’s first line consisted of five wires, buried in the earth, each acting on a separate needle. This system was soon abandoned on account of its expensiveness.
The Morse system is almost universally used in the United States, and more extensively^ than any other in Europe. In England, Cooke and Wheatstone’s single or double needle telegraph is commonly employed. The ordinary rate of transmissionu pon the Morse instrument is about 1,000 words an hour, although it can be worked as high as 2,700 ; upon the needle instrument it is about 000.
Eichibucto.
/ ____________ ___ _______—_
r/ Howto Try a Vocation. V ’	_______
[Translated from the German by O. M. SJ
A wealthy gentleman, who did not believe in the modem system of education of young ladies, used to warnhis only son and heir to beware of those smattering, pianojingling, ready-witted, quick-tongued, dress-loving, and showy young ladies of the present day, the girls of the period.
The young man reflected upon his father’s advice; and one day when a grand dinner-party was given, and a select . company was assembled at his father’s residence, Alphonsus |
’(such was the name of the young man) ordered one of his servants, whilst the guests were enjoying a sumptuous meal, to lay a broom across the hall leading to the door. The company getting ready to take a walk in the magnificent gardens adjoining the house, Alphonsus said to one of his friends; “Come, let us step behind this screen, and see how a broom can try a vocation.” Soon after, the company came out of the parlor; the young ladies in particular gambolling towards the door. Most of them stepped lightly over the fatal broom, others stumbled against it, but at last came a modest, pretty-looking young girl that stooped, picked it up, and put it in its place. Alphonsus, who was a sensible young man, believed in her vocation, wooed the young lady, was married to her, and never repented of his choice.
Moral.—Little straws show where the wind comes from. The young lady that picked up the broom showed, 1st, a love of order, which is the soul of life; 2Jly, the moral courage to do what others scorned to do3rdly, a willingness to lay hands to the work and smooth the way for those coming after her. And in conclusion, we may say that if we had more sensible young men like Alphonsus, we should have more sensible young ladies, like her who was not ashamed to pick up the broom.
Habit.
JE5op was once requested to name the best and most beneficial to man of all things, and he immediately an-	j
swered—the tongue; and upon being asked to name the	■
worst., he answered as before—the tongue. No doubt had n he been requested to name the greatest friend and at the fl same time the greatest enemy of man, be would have re-	fl
plied—habit. Habit is aptitude gained by practice. If we	0
do a thing very often, we do it after a while without thought or effort, and then we may be said to have ac- a quired a habit.
God wisely planted in the hearts of all persons this apti- j tude for acquiring habits. If used wisely, in acquiring	j
good habits, it helps us to persevere in the performance of	t
our duty; but if badly used, it, like all other perverted gifts, is only an aid to draw us to perdition. There can be no neutral ground: habits are either good or bad. Unfortunately for the human race, the fall of our first parents implanted sin so firmly in our hearts that we are .much more apt to acquire the former than the latter.
Habit gains strength each time that an act is committed, like Antaeus the giant, with whom Hercules fought in the Lybian desert, each time he touched his mother-earth. A young man takes a glass of wine. He does not see the serpent that glides into his bosom from the brink of the glass, where it has been lying in wait. He takes another, I1 and another; and the serpent, like the giant, grows stronger with each succeeding glass. The youth says; “ I do not like wine so well that I cannot quit it when I wish, so I will drink a few more times with my friends, just to be sociable.” The serpent listens; and, well satisfied, sinks back again and waits. The young man repeats his potations, and after a while begins to feel the power of the serpent;
but, silencing his fears, he says: “ I admit that I do like liquor pretty well, and drink pretty often, and even get drunk once in a while; but that doesn’t matter; as soon as I find that the habit is getting too strong I will cast it from me and never touch another drop.” The serpent rears its horrid head, and with darting tongue looks into his face, '
I
THE SCHOLASTIC.
0 40r
sees the mark of debauchery there, and, certain of its victim, bides its time, 'the young man drinks again and again, until, warned by his friends, he makes an effort to bscape.
Then the serpent, angered at disputed power, rises up, seizes its victim by the throat, coils its great bulk around his very soul, and defies him to free himself. The young man then sees his situation, and struggles heroically, but his struggles are in vain; the serpent gains strength at every encounter, while the man grows weaker and weaker and at last abandons himself entirely to the will of his terrible master.
You observe yourself doing something regularly and without thinking. Stop! Is it good ? is it such on act as you would like to commit each day until you die? one that you can acknowledge without fear before your God on the last day? Habit will surely grow if you give it a chance, and woe to you if you allow, a bad one to grow; for it will weigh you down like the old man of the sea, un-unless you can gain grace to throw it off and crush its head with the stone of penance. Be careful in your most trivial actions. Young man, do you treat your mother or sisters with impoliteness, or use slang phrases? Desist at once, or you will form a habit that will expose you to the contempt of those whose opinion you mo-t desire. Do you swear? Get down upon your knees, and pray that God may give you grace to desist. You may think that you can leave off in a short time; perhaps you can, but you are liable to foil at an unguarded moment. In the delirium before death good men have been known to break out into the most horrible blasphemies. They had not sworn for years, but they had the habit in their youth, and they went out of the world into the presence of their Maker blaspheming. Beware lest a like fate attend your last hour. Youth at college, you have now a good opportunity to form good habits. You are surrounded by an atmosphere of regularity, morality, and industry; and you have a fair chance to place a bulwark of good habits around your after-life that will break the waves of sin which will continually dash against it. Profit by it, and I will guarantee that you will make something of yourself, and die a happy death, loved and honored by all. If you have formed a bad habit, pray God to give you strength to break it. Hercules succeeded in conquering the giant of the Lybian desert only by lifting him up from the strength-giving, earth and crushing him in his powerful embrace. Therefore avoid the smallest thing that may lead to the repetition of the act,—the places, the company, the thoughts,—and you will thus lift your giant from the earth and receive strength from Heaven to crush him.	G. R.
Literature.
—Augustin Daly’s new comedy, “ The Big Bonanza,” is the most successful of American plays.
—The ninth volume of the Biographic Nniverselle des musieiens is being prepared in Paris, by M. Arthur Pugin.
—John S. C. Abbott is preparing a history of Maine, which will make a volume of about 600 pages, and will be ‘ issued during the present year.
—Professor Henry Morley is now engaged in the preparation of a work, the object of which will be to illustrate English literature throughout its gradual development.
—Fifty-three thousand copies of the “Handy-book of Property Law,” by the late Lord St. Leonards, who died lately at the age of 94 years, after 70 years of hard work, have been sold.
—The unpublished manuscripts of Peter Sterry, one of Gromwell’s chaplains, mentioned in the second volume of his work, have been found in the hands of some of his descendants, together with several of his letters.
—A Shakspearian relic of a singularly curious kind has come to light. It is a fragment of an edition of the first part of “ Henry IV,” anterior to the one of 1598, which has heretofore been considered the first impression. The text of this fragment preserves a word which has been accidentally omitted in all the subsequent editions.
- —We have received from the publishers in New York,
The Arcadian, a weekly journal devoted to Literature* Art, the Drama, etc. From the specimens we have seen, we can recommend it to all persons who are interested in these matters. In these days, it is necessary for all persons who wish to move in polite society to be acquainted with matters connected with Art, the Drama, etc. Through the pages of The Arcadian, a knowledge of many things connected with these subjects may be had. The Editors are live persons, capable of making a good, readable, gossipy journal,—just the kind of journal for all who live outside the metropolis. The cartoons by which it is illustrated are very good. The price is $4.00 per annum. All subscriptions should be sent to The Arcadian, Nos. 169 £ 170, Fulton St., New York.
—We have received from New York, Watson’s Art Journal, which we can heartily recommend to all persona who take an interest in Literature, Art, Music, and the Drama. It is, we believe, the only weekly musical journal published in the United States. The true musical critic is known by the justness of his criticism, by his knowledge of the principles of music, and the relish with which he enjoys the beautiful. That the musical critic of the Art Journal is a true critic, and not one who is given to extreme praise of friends and abuse of enemies, is evinced by the fairness of his criticism. Literature, the Drama and Art are also well treated in this excellent journal. The articles are solid and well written, and the gossip entertaining. The price of the Journal is $4.00 per annum. For subscriptions, address Watson's Art Journal, 1043,13th St., New York.
—Mr. John Sivage is making the Manhattan Monthly a most readable magazine, and we believe, that as it increases in age he will raise the tone of its articles to a very high standard. The April number of the monthly lies before us, and shows a decided improvement over the former numbers, though they were of great merit. The contents of the number are: I, April Fools’ Day; II, Under Mervyn’s Tomb; III, Archbishop Manning; IV, Things that Never Die; V, Rural Life and Superstition in Western France; VI, Gregorian Chant in Churches; VH, The Holy House of Loreto; VIII, Froude and Kingsley; IX, How She Became an Editress; X, The Conversion of Placidus; XI, Famous Memories of the Month; XII, Literary Oddities; XIII, Tne Dion Boucicault Testimonial ; XIV, The Summer of my Heart is Fled; XV, The Centennial Fountain; XVI, Miscellany; XVII, Current Publications. Published in New York, at 33 Warren St. $2.50 per annum.
—These college titles are becoming too numerous. They would put a D. D. on to a fiddle.
—The lady who advertised a lecture on the subject of “ Moods,” was disgusted at not having the first person present.”
—A Pennsylvanion boasts that he makes a soap that would “ wash a politician’s character white as snow.” There must be a good deal of “ lye ” about that soap.
. —The ghost of Noah Webster came to a spiritual medium in Alabama, not long since, and wrote on a slip of paper: “It is tite times.” Noah was right, but we are sorry to see he has has gone back on his dictionary.
—Ned Vose used to travel around Colorado with a performing bear, but a great change came one day last week, and now the bear travels around alone, thinking over old times, and occasionally leaning up against a tree as a pang shoots through his bowls. Ned is inside that bear.—Milwaukee News.
A Minnesota Judge, in pronouncing the death sentence, tenderly observed: “ If guilty, you richly deserve the fate that awaits you; if innocent, it will be a gratification for you to feel that you were hanged without such a crime on your conscience; in either case you will be delivered from a world of care.”
—A would-be school teacher in Toledo recently replied to a question by one of the examiners: “ Do you think the world is round or flat?” by saying: “Well’ some, people think one way and some ano the r, and I’ll, teach them round or flat just as the parents please.”
108
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic
Tublislved every Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
AU communications should he scut to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TBBM8 :
One year..........................$100
Single copies (5 cts.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
. Tbe Scholastic for the 2nd Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is fifty cents; besides which al 1 new subscribers are requested to send ten cents for postage, malting in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
—The great necessity for priests in nearly all the dioceses in. the United States has been felt by Bishops, priests and laymen. That the progress of the Church in our country would have been greater than has been the case (as tonishing as has been that increase) had there been priests sufficient to attend to the spiritual wants of the people, is admitted by alL And then again, many of the faithful have fallen away from the practice of their religion, and, attaching themselves to popular sects, have been lost to the Church, because, perhaps, they were unable to see the priest for months or for years.
It is true there are but few dioceses now in which this last complaint can be made, yet there is scarcely a diocese but what needs some, if not many priests. We know that the Bishops make strenuous exertions to obtain priests, and that they educate many young men for the Holy Office, yet the Bishops of the United States are not blessed with a great deal of money and hence are not able to educate as many young men as they would like.
The people, then, should assist their worthy Bishops in their endeavors to educate young men for their Church. They should not limit themselves to the annual Seminary collections, but should on all occasions do all in their power to aid in adding to the number of the ministers of the Church. Rev. W. O'Mahony, C. S C., Pastor of South Bend, Ind., knowing the duty incumbent on the people (arid after making the best collection ever made in South Bend for the Seminary) is about forming a Society for the education of young men for the priesthood. Each family in the parish is to pay monthly the sum of 10 cents or one dollar and twenty cents per year. As there are some, two hundred families in tbe parish, be will be enabled to raise yearly about the sum of $240. With this money tbe parish will be able to pay for the education of at least one seminarian. He will begin tbe work of organizing his Society as soon as he receives the approbation of the Bishop of the diocese. Success to him 1	•
—Mr. McMaster, in the New York Freemans' Journal, once suggested that a convention of persons connected with Catholic educational institutions be held for the purpose of exchanging views with regard to those questions which immediately affect such persons. The presidents of some colleges, we believe, opposed holding the convention; those of other colleges never acted in the matter; and, as a consequence, the convention was not held.
A few weeks ago we stated that we thought that it would be for the benefit of Catholic colleges if the presidents of the different institutions throughout the country would
form an association for the advancement of all educational interests. We have not had time to learn the opinions of the various Catholic college journals (for the Scholastic is the only Catholic college paper published weekly), and know not how the matter may be viewed by others. At-the time that we made the statement we had not spoken to persons connected with.the college here, and knew not how they felt in the matter. Since then we have spoken to them, and find that they are willing to join in an asso ciation of the kind.
We have never yet seen nor heard of any man who could not learn something by an interchange of views on any. question; and we believe that every college represented in an association of the kind which we have mentioned woold gain by it. We believe it would do much towards advancing the studies and discipline of every such, college.
We hope that a number of the presidents of Catholic colleges will unite in a call for a convention to meet some time this coming Summer, for tbe purpose of forming an association of this kind. We believe that the professors in non Catholic colleges have such an association. We know that the public-school teachers derive much profit from their associations, and we do not see why Catholic educators, who are one in their faith, may not gain by uniting themselves by association.
—We have just passed through a winter of almost unprecedented length in the annals of our country. We had almost given up all idea of having anything but a continual winter the whole year through. Yet there have been winters with which this last winter could not be compared. In the year of our Lord 401, the Black Sea was entirely frozen ever. In the year 763, not only was the. Black Sea frozen over, but even the waters of the Straits of Dardanelles, the snow in some places during tbe year falling so heavily that banks of it fifty feet in height were to be seen. In the year 822, so great was tbe cold that tbe great rivers of Europe, tbe Danube, tbe Elbe, etc., were frozen so hard that-wagons heavily laden could cross over for more than a month. - In the year 860, the Adriatic was frozen. In 991, so intense was the cold that everything was frozen, tbe crops were totally destroyed, and tbe year ended with pestilence and famine. Most of tbe-travellers in Germany were frozen to death on the roads in tbe year 1067. The River Po was frozen from Cremona to the Sea in the year 1134. In this year the wine-sacks were burst and trees were split with great noise by the action of the frost. In 1236, the Danube was frozen over, and the ice reached to the bottom of the river and remained in that state for a long time. The crops wholly failed in Germany in tbe year 1316; and in England, wheat, which some years before sold at 6s. the quarter, rose to £2. In Scotland in the year 1303, tbe crops entirely failed; a famine set in which was sb terrible that the poor were forced to feed on grass; many of them miserably perished in the fields, where they sought sustenance. The- cold in the years 1832-3-4, was uncommonly severe. In the year 1368 the soldiers cut with their hatchets the wine which was distributed to them. Coaches drove along the River Thames in the year 1683, the ice of the river being excessively thick. Most of tbe hollies that year were killed by the frost. In the year 1709, the frost penetrated the earth three yards into the ground. In- the year 1716, many booths were erected on the Thames; and in 1744, such was the excess of the cold that the strongest ale in England when exposed to the air was in less than fifteen minutes

THE SCHOLASTIC.
409
covered with ice %th of an inch thick. In 1800 and 1812 the winters were remarkably cold, while in 1814 a fair was held on the frozen Thames.
So there have been many winters much colder than the long, tedious one through which we have just passed.
—From the Catholic Review we learn “ that a writer in the Sicilai gives a truly lamentable account of the condition of the churches and convents in Palermo and other Sicilian cities. More than fifty monasteries have been destroyed, and over thirty closed. Of churches, twenty-three have been put to profane use; and of these churches at least fifteen are of more than usual architectural beauty, and some still retain noble frescoes, fine marbles and pictures. English and American tourists have made a rich harvest of valuable pictures, purchased from these ancient churches, for a few francs. One magnificent church, San Giuliano, is celebrated for its mosaic pavement. This has been utterly destroyed by the constant passing in and out of heavy carts and carriages, and is now used as a store-house for vehicles. Another very interesting edifice was Sinta Theresa, once full of flue frescoes, which are now utterly ruined. At Caltanessatta three glorious churches .have been desecrated. These are Santa Flavia, Sant’ Antonia and Santa Biagio, all of them remarkable for their fine works of art, monuments, tombs, and stained windows.”
We see that the revolutionists of to-day are thus following in the footsteps of former revolutionists. When that great revolution, misnamed the Reformation, took place, Art suffered throughout Germany. The glorious shrines which were then in the now non-Catholic countries of Europe were destroyed. In their blind hatred of the Spouse of Christ, the reformers destroyed many a noble monastery in which were contained the art treasures of many years. During the bloody revolution of ’93, churches which had been the admiration of all people were ruthlessly destroyed; monasteries, like those of Cluny, with which were associated remembrances of holy men, and which were the glory of the nation, were pulled down or given to base uses, so that on those spots where the great Sacrifice has been offered men were stabling their horses. During the revolution of ’43, holy places were desecrated in Rome. Works of art were sold so cheaply that many tourists and others became possessed of fine paintings for a mere trifle. It was during these years that Mr. Cass, of Detroit, then Minister to Rome, obtained his valuable collection of paintings.
How Art fared in the hands of the revolutionary party which a few years ago deluged Paris with blood, is seems in the treatment to which even monuments attesting the glory of their forefathers were subjected. And now the vandals in Italy seem determined to equal if not to surpass those of other days. They seem detei mined, in their blind fury against the Church, to destroy or drive from Italy all works of art which are connected with religion. They do not seem to consider the' fact that by acting in this manner they are doing themselves an irreparable injury. Italy has ever boasted that her land was the home of the Fine Arts, and has pointed with pride to the masterpieces of painters and sculptors born on her soil. Yet these revolutionists seem filled with a hatred of these works as well as against all religion.	,
Do they expect that art will flourish without religion? It was only last week that we published the state ment that a prize of 10,000 lire for the best piece of sculpture, was in the city of Rome, left unawarded, because there was
no work worthy of the prize. This fact shows what the regenerating of Italy has done for art.	:
It is instructive to us to witness how different from that of the revolutionists is the conduct of the Pope with regard to the Fine Arts. He is liberal in his patronage; and, at the same time that the revolutionists destroy the flue mosaic pavements in the churches of Sicily, he gives orders (as we learn from The Arcadian) for his workmen to proceed to Sevres there to help forming the manufactory for the School of Mosaics now being established. At the very time when the works of art are, by the revolutionists, destroyed in one place, he is taking means to have them made in others.
Art Notes.	'
—The monument to Regnault and the artists slain during the war is nearly finished.
—Baron de Rambuy, the historical painter, and Richard Zimmerman, a painter of note, recently.died in Munich.
—The artists are putting the finishing touches to their pictures for the coming Exhibition at the National Academy, New York.	,
—A new picture by Gustave Dore contains 903 figures, those in the foreground being of life-size. The subject is . from Dante’s “Inferno.”
—The sculptor Salvini has ascertained that a statue of St. John in the Pesciolini Palace at Pisa, which he attributed to Donatello, is really by Michael Angelo.
—Corot, the eminent French painter, recently deceased, bequeathed two of his noblest works—“Dante” and “ Hagar in the Wilderness ”—which have long been in his studio, to the Louvre.
. —Mr. H. K. Browne, a sculptor, has signed a contract to furnish a colossal equestrian statue of Gen. Nathaniel Greene for the grounds of the State Capitol at Providence, Rhode Island, receiving therefor- §40,000.	-
—The subscription opened in Denmark for the erection of a statue to Hans Christian Andersen amounts already to 18,000 crowns. M. Anderson will attain his seventieth year on the 2nd of next month.	’	-
—Now the iconoclasts declare that West’s picture of William Penn, wherein he is treating with the Indians, does not represent him as he actually looked, nor does it clothe him in the proper babilimems of the time.
—The Archte logical S >ciety of Athens has protested against the text of the convention concluded with Germany respecting the excavations at Olympia as establishing an onerous precedent if E igland, France, or other powers should ask for similar privileges.
—The tombs of Moli&re and La Fontaine, in the Cemetery of Pere la Chaise in Paris, have fallen into decay. Tne French-Minister of Public Instruction has written to the Director of Fine Arts proposing, instead of simply repairing them, that monuments be erected to tffiese two poets.
—George Simonds and Charles Summers, English sculpt tors residing, in Rome, have sent works for Exhibition in the Royal Academy which will not fail to attract attention-. Simonds’ work is a life-sized statue of the Falconer; Summers’, a group representing Hypermnestra urging^her husband, Lynceus, to flee.
—The stolen St. Anthony of Murillo, which was recovered by M. Schaus of New York, and by him given to the Spanish authorities, has been restored to its. own special chapel in the cathedral at Seville, where its reinstallation was recently commemorated by solemn processions and religious services.	'
—M. Ie Marquis de Cheunevieres, Director of the Academy of Fine Arts, is endeavoring to institute a French National Academy like the English “ Royal,” but we fear he will not succeed. You-see, in England artists will toady to Earl this and Lord that, the Presidents and
410
THE SCHOLASTIC
Chairman, etc., of this kind of institution, but in France they will not.—The Arcadian.
—At Sevres, France, they have opened a new Mosaic School adapted to the Granadan system. This work is made with small square-cut stones of uniform dimensions. In the decoration of floors and ceilings the Spanish mosaic has a greater effect than the Venetian, on account of its thick outlines, which allow a better sight of the designs. The Venetian mosaic, intended for more delicate purposes and designs, such as tibles, gueridons, medallions) etc, wrs, like its sister branch, imported from the Moors of Spain, who had inherited the secrets from the Romans and Carthagenians.—TVitson’s Art Journal.
—Watson's Art Journal says: “ It is a good sign of the progress Art is making in this countrjr to witness the interest the public took in the recent Exhibition of the American Society of Painters in Water-Colors at the Academy of Design; also the unusually large number of really good p.ctures that were exhibited. The greater part of the collection has been transferred to the Exhibition of the Brooklyn Art Association, where they will no doubt attract the same attention from connoisseurs and the public as they did in New York. This is a branch of Art which has too long been neglected, and we are happy to see that the public is now inclined to foster our native talent.”
—We take it that nobody—except, possibly, Mr. Nast himself—ever accused Mr. Nast of any knowlege of drawing; if anyone ever did make such a mistake, the cartoon in the last number of Harper's Weekly must have convinced him of his error. General Grant is represented as standing on a stairway, in a position only to be equalled by the most skilful of the contortionists announced to appear for the benefit of Mr. Nixon. Mr. Nast has of late given vent to his exhuberant fancy and humor by representing different officers of the Government in the character of bill posters. The device was never very funny, and Mr. Nast’s own appreciation of that fact majr have induced him to superadd the character of contortionist. —The Arcadian.
Musical Notes.
—Wagner is to commence his orchestral rehearsals at Bayreuth in August next..
—One of Palestrina’s Masses was sung at St. Anne’s Church New, York, on Palm Sunday.
—Rubenstein’s new opera, The- Demon, was produced at St. Petersburg in January.
—Mr. Arthur Sullivan is writing an opera. The libretto will be written by Gilbert.
—Herr Damcke, author of the oratorio “ Deborah ” and other works, died recently in Paris.
—The Oratorio Society at New York sang Handel’s “ Sampson ” on Easter Monday evening.
—The composition class of the late Sir Sterndale Bennett, at the Royal Academy of Music, has been confided to Arthur Sullivan, once his pupil.
—Sir R. Sterndale Bennett, the composer, was buried in "Westminster Abbey, an honor rarely accorded in England to members of the musical profession.
—Signor Giulio Perkins, the well-known basso of Mr. Mapleson’s company, died on Thursday at the Queen’s Hotel, Manchester, having been ill but a few days.
—Watson's Art Journal says: “We look upon Rubenstein’s Symphony Dramatique as the most important work of^a symphonic character that has been written since Beethoven laid down the pen.”
—The Director of the Brussels Conservatoire, M. Gevaert, is in Paris, for the purpose of bringing out the first volume of an important work, entitled “ Histoire et Theorie de la Musique de 1’Antiquite,” on which he has been engaged for several years.
—Of Gilmore’s Band, Watson’s Art Journal says: “ His (Gilmore’s) Band is undoubtedly the best of its class in the country, and but few would hesitate to pronounce it fully
equal to the best of the foreign Bands who took part iu the Boston Jubilee.”
—Mr. Mapleson is to produce “Lohengrin” during the season just opening at Drury Line Theatre. The preparations are very costly. Sir Michael Costa directs the orchestra, and Wagner is expected to give his advice during the rehearsals. Nilsson is to be Hlsa.
—The band of the Theatre at Bayreiith will consist of some 150 performers, namely: 16 first and 10 second violins, 10 tenors, 12 violoncellos, 7 harps, 5 flutes, oboes and clarionets, 2 English horns, 2 opheclides, 16 horns, 8 trumpets, as many trombones and tubas, and 6 pairs of cymbals.
—On Friday evening the choir of the Catholic Church of Mishawaukee gave a concert under the direction of Prof. Singenberger, who speaks very highly of their singing. Rev. Father (Echtering is a devoted Cmcilian, and our choir-leader and organist regret very much their not being able to accept his kind invitation to be present.
—It would seem that Offenbach’s new departure has been a failure, and that be is not to be enrolled in tbe category of sacred composers after all. The cure of Notre Dame listened to the rehearsal of his Mass and readily discovered t hat it was tainted with opera bouffe frivolities, and condemned it. The “ Kyrie ” was so like De Hari Sage that everybody recognized that merry tune at once, and the “Agnus” was only the letter song from “La Per-ichole” played very slow, with a tremolo.
Personal.
—	Harvey Taylor, of ’70, is farming at Glencoe, Ill.
—	W. Skelly, of’62, is a member of the Illinois Legislature.
—	We are pleased to have Mr. Joseph Fleury back in the office.
—	Dr. J. C. Skelly, of ’65, is going to Europe this Summer.
—Rev. Father Kollop, of Toledo, called at the office on Tuesday last.
—	Franklin P. Dwyer, of ’67, intends to recuperate his health in California.
—	The Messrs. Hogan, of Chicago, spent a few days at the College tins past week.
—	Very Rev. Father Provincial was under the weather at the beginning of the week.
—	Thos. Finnegan, who was here some twenty years ago, is in the dry goods business in Chicago.
—	The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne has issued a beautiful Pastoral concerning the Jubilee.
—	Mr. James J. Wilson, of’71, has been elected Presi dent of the Young Men’s Catholic Association of Newark’ N.J.
—	We had the pleasure of a visit from Prof. D. A. Clarke, of the Catholic Columbian, last week. We are always pleasedto see him.
—	We ase sorry to hear that W. C. Clelland, Gen. Ticket Agent of the P., F. W. & C. R. R-, is lying dangerously ill at his residence in Chicago.
—	Prof. J. Singenberger, President of the American Branch of the Csecilia Society, paid us a visit, and spent a' few hours pleasantly with our musicians. He tried the organ, and pronounced it a first class instrument. We hope he will make a longer stay next time.
Obituary.
Bro. Alpheus (Patrick Owens) died at Notre Dame, Ind., on Thursday, April 1st. Bro. Alpheus was sixty-five years old, and had resided at Notre Dame some twenty years. He was respected by all who knew him, and his loss will be felt by his companions here. May his soul rest in peace.	.

THE SCHOLASTIC
411
Local Items
—At last I
-—Splendid weather I
—Bulletins next week.
—Now for the champion games.
—Send in your reports promptly.
—The Choir had rec. Tuesday afternoon.
-The Band took a walk Monday afternoon.	.
—The ice in the lakes is going away slowly.
—The Boat Club has but two crews this year.
—Mr. Bonney, the photographer, will be out soon,
—Work will begin in good earnest in a very short while.'
—We suppose that Spring has come in real earnest at last.
—The Academia held a business meeting on Monday last.	■
—Some persons like to be struck by lightning—Jersey— occasionally. '
—With the Spring, new life seems to be infused into everybody and everything.
—The next meeting of the resident Alumni will be held on the 11th at 7 o’clock p. M.
—Some students—no admirers of baseball, probably— enjoy themselves with long walks.
—Baseball playing has begun ; and in a short time our “gallant tars” will be hard at work.
—The raking of leaves and the burning of wild grass about the lakes will be in order shortly.
—The Philopat.rians are bard at work for their Exhibition, which will be given in a few weeks.
—The Monthly Conference was held on Wednesday last, when a number of excellent pipers were read.
—It is easy to tell that the baseball season has opened. The boys are in high glee; we hope they will use in moderation the privileges of this, one of the most active of outdoor sports.
—Our friend John says he won’t eat another half mince pie to preserve the reputation of any table. Those fellows are so ungrateful, you know.
—The students are making the most of the fine weather which we now have. We hope that none will be afflicted with the disease which is sometimes prevalent at this season of the year.
—We were invited to an excellent lunch given by the Mother Superior of the Sisters at Notre D ime, on Monday last. The table was set in the Junior’s Refectory, and the Brother refectorian received-the thanks of all who partook of the lunch.
—“ Baseballers” shouldn’t be so affectionate. Last Wednesday morning two of them got it into their heads that they wanted to embrace each other. Instead of taking their time, they ran as hard as they could to meet; and, of course, there was a collision.
—The Scholastic, published weekly at Notre Dame, devoted to the interests of students, is to hand, and is replete with entertaining, interesting and amusing gossip; such as, in fact, students might be expected to enjoy and profit by. We give in this number a poem from its pages, which indicates that others than the students can find enjoyable reading in The Scholastic.—Western, Catholic.
—Our friend John says that some persons have no feeling at all. He was simply lying in bed the other morning, .dreaming of green-fields and eternal Spring, and all that. It’s true, most of the boys were up, but what of that? And some person or persons with malice prepense took his bed from under him and left him in the cold, and he wants to know how he could dream of green fields and eternal Spring in that condition ?
—The following books have been added to theLemon-nier Circulating Library: Index to Blackwood’s Magazine ; Sismonde’s Literature of Europe, 2 vols.; Goethe’s Faust, etc., Campbell’s Lives of thy Chief Justices of England, vols.; Johnston's Lives of the English Poets; Life an
Speeches of Stephen A. Douglas; Tuttle’s History of the Border Wars of Two Centuries; Hall’s Legends of tire West; Bret Harte’s Luck of Roaming Camp; Hall’s Romance of Western History; Eggleston’s Schoolmaster’s Stories, 2 vols. Also the fol lowing juvenile works: Ragged Dick Series, 6 vols.; Young America Abroad (Second Series), Optic’s Upward and Onward Series, G vols ; Optic’s Boat-Club Series, 6 vols.; John Goodsoe’s Legacy; The Clift on Tracts; The Knout (<i Tale of Poland)•, and Boneval (a Tale of Paris).
.—From Memramcook a correspondent writes:
“ Knowing that you take a deep interest in anything which concerns the celebration of the anniversary of Ireland’s Patron Saint, especially in Memramcook—land of your former haunts —it may not be amiss to write a tew words describing the manner in which the day and evening were spent by the Stu* •dents of St. Joseph’s College. A. large congregation assembled in the Church at ten o’eiook, when High Mass was sung by Father McManus. Af er which in a short but appropriate discourse he explained why the memory of St. Patrick has always been, and must always continue to be, dear to every Irish heart,
“ A seance was given in the evening by the Students of the College. The hall in which it was held was crammed almost to suffocation ; and many were obliged to leave, being unable to obtain even standing-room. The seance was opened by G. V. McInerney in a short address; after which followed in order, a chorus “ Hail, Glorious Apostle I” “The Irish in America,” an oration by G. V. McInerney; “Fontenoy,” a declamation by E.. J. McPhelim; “Joan of Arc,” a declamation by N. A. Landry; aduette by Messrs. Walsh and Blodget; and a solo op the piano, “ La Pleue de Corail,” by Professor Ringuette. Then came an English drama, “The Family of Martyrs,” by Chas. Collins, 0. H. Donahoe, E. J. McPhelim, G. V, Mclnerney-and others, in which these young gentlemen acquitted themselves of their various parts with great credit. Then succeeded a comic song, u Le Gonadien et L' Acadian," byN. A. Landry and J. Ringuette, which was received by the audience with rapturous applause. An oration, “What Ireland has to be Proud of,” by Henry A. Meahan, next came, and was followed by the. French drama, ''Retour de Croise," by A. D. Richard, 8. Leblanc, N. A. Landry, E. Gandet, and others, which, judging by the applause of the audience, was very successfully petforined. A comic song, by Henty O’Connor, followed; then some pieces of minor importance, after which came a Farce entitled “ A Race lor a Dinner,” in which the principal actor, C.' H. Donahoe, kept the audience in almost continuous laughter by the amusing manner in which be performed his part. Some musical selections, an address by N. A. Landry, and a few remarks from Father Lefebvre, in which he expressed himself as well pleased with the performance ot the evening, closed the Exhibition. Too much praise cannot be given to'Messrs. Walsh and Roy, the respective heads of the English and French Academies ; also to Mr. McDevitt, who rendered valuable assistance. To the indefatigable exertions of these gentlemen the success of the seance is almost entirely owing.”
Society Notes.
—The twenty-sixth regular meeting of the St Stanislaus Philopatrian- Society look place on the 29th of March, Masters F. Ewing, J. Crummey, J. French, G. Budd, W. Roelle, J. Nelson, W. Morris, C. Whipple, F. Klaner, and E Davis, delivered declamations. Master Colton presented . himself.for membership and was unanimously elected.
—The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association held the sixth regular meeting of this session Tuesday evening, March 30, Prof. Dailey presiding. Mr. S. Monahan read an excellent criticism on the exercises of the previous evening, which showed that he understands the duties of a critic. The question whether “ Political Parties are Beneficial to the State,” was debated. The disputants on the affirmative were Messrs. Ney, Matthews and Grier; on the negative, Messrs. G. Kelly, Hoyt and Graves. The decision was in favor of the affirmative. .
—The St. AloysiusPhilodemic Association held the fourth regular meeting of this session last Tuesday evening, Prof. Dailey in the chair. The President delivered the decision of the previous debate in favor of the affirmative. Mr. Kelly, critic of the previous evening, read an excellent criticism. Mr. Hoyt read a well-writtea essay On Thinking. Mr. Graves delivered a declamation in good style. The debate of the evening came next in order; it was well handled; the disputants were, affirmative, Messrs. Grier, Keeler, and McPharlin; negative, Messrs. Caren,

412
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Otto and Ball. The President having decided in favor of affirmative, and made some excellent remarks, the meeting adjourned.
—The 52nd regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held March 29th. At this meeting the debate took place on the following question: “ Which was the greater man, Washington or Napoleon?” The President decided, according to the arguments brought forth, in favor of the negative. After a lively discussion the following question was adopted for next debate: Resolved, “That the use of Intoxicating Liquors have been More Injurious to the Human Race than \Var.” -The de-batees were appointed, on the negative, Messrs. Mooney, Logan, Kennedy and O’Connell; on the affirmative, Messrs. Monahan, Campbell, Ratigan and Soule. After a few rematks bj' the President the meeting adjourned. •
—The thirtieth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held March 28. At the commencement of the meeting, Master A. Leitelt was unanimously elected a member. Dennis J. Hogan, A. B., was loudly called on for a speech. The young gentleman being of a retiring disposition, felt a little bashful in appearing before the members. He, however, made an excellent little speech, which was well received. (Mr. Hogan was, in bygone days, a prominent editor of the “Standard,” and contributed many able articles to its columns. May he visit us often.) Declamations were then delivered by Masters Walker, O’Hara, O'Connell, Downey, Faxon, and McNamara. Essays were read by Perea, Faxon, Smith, Norris, Hake, Dore and Mitchell. J. D. McIntyre and A. H. Mitchell gave an amusing dialogue, showing effectively their personating powers. Prof. D. A. Clarke was present at the meeting, to the great delight of the members. After repealed calls, he favored the members with a speech full of good advice.
Oat-Door Sports.
—On March 31, the Mutuals beat the Nationals by a score of 22 to 15.
—On the 28th ult., the Mutuals beat the first nine of the Excelsiors by a score of 21 to 19.
—On the 27th ult., the Mutuals beat the second nine of the Excelsiors by a score of 16 to 17.
—The Juanitas’ first nine is made up as follows: Logan; c.; Hess, p.; Hayes, 1 b.; Busch, 2 b.; Gault 3 b. and capt., Culliton, s. s.; Crummy, 1.1.; Graves, c. £; and Seibert, r.'f.
—The following clubs will play for the championship this year: The Star of the East, the Nationals, the Juanitas, the Fearless, the Excelsiors, Mutuals, and the Quicksteps.
—The 1st nine of the Atlantic B. B. C., is as follows: Dwyer, c. and capt.; O'Day, p.; Maley, s. s.; Murphy, 1 b.; Hennessy, 2 b.; Ruhl, 3 b.; Flynn, 1. f.; Boulger, c. £ ; and Maley, r. £	.
—The 1st nine of the Excelsiors is composed of the following persons: McDougall,c.; Downey, p.; Minion,lb.f, Hayes, 2 b.; Perea, 3 b.; Gross, s. s.; Kelly, 1. f.; Frazee, c. f.; and Murphy, r. f.
—The first nine of the Quickstep B. B. Club (minims) —Organized in 1866—is as follows: Frank Carlin, Capt. and p.; T. Hooley, c.; 6. Lindberg, s. s.; R. Golsen, 1 b. ; J. O. Meara, 2 b,; E. Rty-mond, 3 b.; C. Campau, 1. £; C. Moody, c- f-; H. Colton, r. f.
—The 1st nine of the Star of the East B. B. C. is as follows: Devoto, c.; Dougherty, p.; Ryan, 1 b. and capt.; Soule, 2 b.; Cassidy, 3 b.; Monahan, s. s.; Marks, L-f.; Caren, c. £; and Lonstorf, r. £	-
—The foilwing persons compose the 1st nine of the Mutuals: McNamara, c.; Connolly, p.; Best, s.s.; Willis,lb.; ;Roelle, 2 b.; Byrne, 3 b.; Pilliod, 1. £ and capt.; Monohan, c. £; Budd, r. £; and Morris, sub.
—The 1st nine of the Fearless B. B. C. is made up as follows: Cullen, c.; Lawrence, p.; Foley, 1 b.; Schwabacher, 2b.; McNulty, 3 b.; Hanley, s’, s.; Ayers, 1. f; Allen, c. f. and captain; and Pugh, 1. f. Subs., Oates and Moran.
—The 1st nine of the Nationals, formerly the Mulligan Guards, is as follows: Watson, c.; O’Brien, p.; Farrell, 1 b; Lyons, 2 b.; Canavan, 3 b.; Hunt, s. s. and capt.; Otto, 1. £; Campbell, c. f; and Cochrane, r. f. Schultheis is captain of the 2d nine.	.
Boll of Honor.
SEXIOK DEPARTMENT.'	'
W. Armstrong, V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, R. Barrett, J. Caren, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, T. Carroll, M. Clarke, W.. Canavan, F. Devoto, R. Doheity, P. Egan, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, A. Hess, J. Handley, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, W. Hughes, F. Hebard, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf. M. Keeler, J. Kelly, G. Kelly,-J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, G. McNulty, J. Marks, R. Maas, E. Marshall, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavin, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monahan, E. McLaughlin, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, A. Mohan, J. Ney, A. O’Brien, T. O’Leary, C. Otto, C. Procter, »G. Roulhac, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, M. Regan, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, P. Shaul, W. Stout, J. Soule, J. Vennent, C. Walters, R. White, J Whalen, W. Wells, C. Welty.	_
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, A. Bergck, G. A Burger, J. W. Connolly, J. Crummey, E. Courtney, J. Dore, J. Del Vecchio, W. Davis, F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, J. French, J. T. Foley, G. J. Gross, J. Griffith, E. Gramling, E. D. Gleason, F. Hoffman, 0. Hake, J. Haffev, C. H. Hitchcock, M. Kramer J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, W. Kreigh, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt G. J. Lonstorf, J. Lynch, P. McBride, R. McGrath, J. P- McHugh, H. McGuire, W. G. Morris, M. J. Murphy, G. Nester, J. Nelson, C. Ottoway. C. Peltier, C. R. Post, H. W. Quan, A. Reinke, F. Raymond, J. A. Smith, T. J.' Solon, P. Schnurrer, H. Sickle. C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood, F. Rosa, W. Fawcett, T. Quinn, E. Stark, O. Meyers, J. Buckles, John Rice.	•
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.	-
" Francis Carlin, Michael McAuliffe, Francis McGrath, Clement Moody, Samuel Goldsberry, Colly Campau, Joseph Carrer, Otto Lindberg, Albert Bushey, Walter Cunningham, Willie Campbell, Jolin O’Meara,.Harry Ordway, William Cash, Francis Cam-oau, Charlie Bushey, Sylvester Bushey.
Class Honors. '
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, APRIL 1.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
- Senior Class—J. Connolly, L. Proudhomme, J. Obert, V. Baca, L. Evers, J. Larkin, A. O’Brien, F. Montgomery, P. Shaul, M. Egan, F. Brady, J. Dryfoos, T. Solon, T. O’Leary, W. Schultheis, F. Wcisenburger, A. Hes=, A. Schmidt, C. Hess, M. Allen, F. Wilhelm, C.’Robertson, J. Thornton, J. Clalley, J. Flaherty, R. Downey, H. McGuire, J.‘Griffith, F. Foxen, T. Monahan, J. Wood, J. Dore, F. Frazee, H. Korty, L. Best, G. Gross, C. Hake, J. Perea, R. Staley.
Junior Class—W. Stout, J. Kennedy, J. Logsdon, A. Mohan, W. Hughes, L. Moran, M. Kramer, L. Pilliod.
MINIM DEPARTMENT, 2ND CLASS.
Francis Campau, Hugh Colton, Albert Bushey, Sylvester Bushey, Charlie Bushey, William Lindsay, William Van Pelt, HarryOrdway, Harry McDonald.
List of Excellence.
[The Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during five consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—Director op Studies.]
3rd English Grammar (Sr.)—M. J.'Regan. Rhetoric— J. Mathews.
Chapel, of Our Lady of Lourdes.
TO BE ERECTED IN MEMORY OF REV. A. LEMONNIER, C. S. 0.
D. A. Clarke, Columbus, O....................$10	00
C. Walsh, Chicago, Ill......................  10	00
Jas. O’Connor, Chicago, Ill..................  5	00
SCHOLASTIC
413
SAIHT MAZY’S ACADEMY
—Miss J. Walsh, a former pupil, spent Easter Week at the Academy.
—The music on Eister at Mass and Vespers was very beautiful, and admired by all.
—On Easter Monday the Book-Keeping Class went to see the new Sanctuary Lamp.
—Miss M. Cochrane, graduate of 1873,'is at present on a visit to her old school-home.
—Fine specimens for the Museum were presented by Mother Augusta; they were procured on her late visit to the East.
The Graduates and First Seniors held a special meetingin the Library on Easter Sunday, at which the Prefect of4 Studies was invited to preside. It was one of unusual interest.
" —Holy Week will long be remembered by the young participants in its sacred ceremonials. The Graduating and First Senior Classes had the pleasure of attending the solemnities of Holy Saturday at Notre Dame.
,	ART NOTES.
—Pupils who have just commenced Drawing, or who have not yet passed through the lowest classes, had better be careful how they speak of taking painting, unless they wish to be laughed at by their more experienced companions. Public opinion in the Studio is all on the side of going straight through the course of study as prescribed.
—A valuable addition has been made to the portfolio of St. Luke’s Studio by Mrs. Patterson, of Indianapolis. The photographs and engravings were from choice works by the great masters of painting, sculpture and architecture. Such donations are so acceptable that we feel like reminding everyone who goes abroad to remember the Studio Portfolio; for by enriching this every pupil in the department is benefited.	■
—Miss Rebecca Neteler is now making some studies in pencil from casts of the ear. Miss Neteler stands alone in the First Class of Drawing. And not only has she passed through all the studies of the Fifth, Fourth, Third and Second Classes, but has passed through all of them well. She is thoroughly deserving of the high place she has now attained. Her forms are always given with accuracy, and her shading, while clear and decided, is still delicate. Although now in the First Class, where special attention is given to heads and figures, she has not dropped her landscape drawing, in which she made such marked progress during the last of the summer term and the first of the autumn. A delicate branch of vine, drawn and shaded in . pencil while in the Third Class, will form the border for • a landscape whenever the season admits of sketching, after the manner of the old illuminations; i. e., not on all the four sides with mathematical precision, but thrown gracefully over the top from one side. May success attend her in her onward course of noble Art, and may others be stimulated by her example to persevere in earnest, faithful study as she has done, and thus win the praise she so well deserves.
—There is no doubt that the ceremonies of the Church have done as much for Christian art, as Christian art has ever done for the adornment of the Church, or for the beauty of her ceremonies. The very fact of the annual recurrence of great festivals is an education of the eye and the taste; and wherever the ecclesiastical rubrics are carried out, a germ of Christian art has been deposited. The groupings in the sanctuary during any solemnity have been studied, consciously or unconsciously, by the artists . of all ages. We shall never forget the first time we saw the Gospel carried on the hands of a subdeacon and resting against his forehead, while the deacon incensed the book and sang the Gospel of the day. A whole procession of pictures rose to mind; and apart from any pious - consideration (for we did not then understand it), the eye was filled and the imagination exalted.	■
Another result of these festivals is the response given by the altars to all these ceremonials. The writers of old could give no higher praise to a beautiful scene than to
say it “reminded them of the High Altar at Easter.’’ H«ly Week develops all these reserved forces of Christian minds and hearts; and during this past week what beautiful offerings have been made to Jesus in the Sacrament of the Altar I How costly textures, and delicate lace, and fairest flowers, have witnessed to the faith of Christendom! It is by these festivals that the Church educates her children; educates them through their devout affections even more than through their intellectual capacities; thus offering us an example for our own educational plans. When we saw the modest repository of the chapel adorned without one artificial leaf or bud; saw the careful gradations of color and the arrangement of every choice vase and candlestick, we could not but think of what we have just written, and felt new confidence in our old motto: that as faith and devotion are the keys of religious art, so they may also be called its teachers.
At Easter the effect of the high altar, by. a decided arrangement of masses of green foliage, lighted up by colors of remarkable purity and harmony, was that of a picture; while the side altars, with their lighter distributions of color, but still with an evident design running through these distributions, gave the variety needed. Twenty, sprays properly arranged are more effective than a whole green-house of plants without any association of ideas, or the using of means for an end. When we see so much pains taken to cultivate a taste for beautiful arrangement in household furniture, is it not worth while to direct special attention to everything connected with the Divine worship and the celebration of the Sacred Mysteries? And while dogma and devotion must underlie all such attempts, every sacristan finds in art, under one form or another, a most willing and intelligent handmaid. * * *
TABLET OF HONOR.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING MAUCH 21.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness,.Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled:
Misses M-Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehy, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, J. Stimson, A. St. Clair, A. O’Connor, M. Daily, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, J. McGuire, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, B. Wade, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady, L. Kelley, S. Harris. C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, R. Net-eler, K. Morris, P. Gaynor, R. Canoil, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, A. Byrnes, M. Roberts, J. Pierce, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, K. Casey, T. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, M. and E. Thompson, C. Morgan, H. Russell, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham, D. Cavenor, J. Riopelle, S. Reising, E. Botsford, L. Gustine, L. Ryan, F. and G. Wells, L. Johnson, D. Allen, A. Smith, E. Colwell, E. Pierce, E. King, C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, G. Hills, L. Brownbridge, L. Schwass, M. Railton, S. Swalley.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Craven3, M. Ewing, A. Cullen, B. Siler, M. Reynolds, S. Cash, L Kirchner, N. McGrath, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson, H. Kraus, M. Hoffman, E. Lappin, M. Redfield, M. Derby, K. Hudson,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. Mann, I. Mann, M. Hughes, C. Hughes, A. McGrath, E. Simpson, R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN FRENCH LESSONS.
1st Class, 1st Div.—Misses J. Kearney, M. Walker.
2nd Div.—Misses J. Stimson, K. Joyce, L. Tinsley, J Kreigh, S. Harris, M. Poquette, F. Dilger, E. Thompson B. Wilson, A. Harris, N. McGrath.
2nd Fr. Class—Misses L. Ritchie, P. Gaynor, C. Morgan, A. Lloyd, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, L. Wyman, G Walton, A. T. Clarke, J. Fanning, A. Walsh, M. Walsh' M. Riley.	. j
414
THE SCHOLASTIC.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses L. Kirchner, M. Faxon, J. Nunning, S. Harris, M. Schultheis.	.
2nd Div—Mi-ses R. Neteler, L. Bosch, A. O'Connor.
2nd Class—M e«es S Raising, M. Dunbur, M. Julius, E. Bmsford, L. Kelh, JI Kraus.
3rd Class—Misses L. Wade, H. Peak, L. Walsh.
■ HONORABLY JIEN.j NED IN FANCY WORK. •
Misses A. Bo'Ch, S. Raising, J. Stimpson, S. Harris, J. Bennett, K. Greenleaf, D. Allen, K. Morris, I. Edes, M. McKay.
—Arrangements have been made for a musical festiva which is to take place in May, 1875. It is expected to surpass the one of 1873, which, as our readers may remember was in every way worthy of being placed alongside of the best ever held in this country or in Europe. Thomas will again wield the baton, while Otto Singer acts as assistant Musical Director. The highest order of solo-singers will be engaged. Negotiations to that end are already in progress. The orchestra will be increased in number, so as to be the most complete that ever performed in America. The chorus, it is expected, will be much larger than that of 1873. The programmes, like those of 1873, are high-toned. Brahms’ Triumphal Hymn, of 55—never before heard in America or in Eagland—will open the concerts. The new German School is thus leading the van, unlike 1873, when Handel’s Te Deum was the opening ’piece. The performances of this composition will be of more than usual interest. While thus speaking of Brahms, we may as well mention the rest of that portion of the programme representing the music of the Future theories. Liszt is represented with his'Prometheus, and Wagner with Selections from Lohengrin. This embraces everything of the new German School, to be given in the evening concerts. And now we may greet old father Bach, again, with his Magnificat in D, and Mendelssohn, with his English. The en-re Symphony in C, by Schubert, of which the Andante-and Scherzo were played in 1873, is this time on the programme. List, we mention the glorious seventh Symphony by Beethoven, and the most glorious of all, the Ninth. It is wise on the part of Thomas to have repeated this work. In the first place, by a repetition, the chorus will undoubtedly do better justice to it, without thereby wish-ng to reflect upon the singers of last year. The enthu siasm with which the ninth Symphony was received in 1873, justifies a repetition, besides all this, an artwork like this, will only be appreciated after repeated hearings.
We feel sure, that with the commodious buildings at the command of the Committee, with the fair recollections of the last festival, with the ambition of Cincinnati to retain her good reputation as a musical city, with a good chorus, and Thomas, as a leader, the next May festival will be in the advance of anything hitherto enjoyed in this country. We hope to meet many of the fraternity at the Cincinnati festival, next May.—Brainards' Musical World.
Fooling a Car Driver.
The other night as the ‘ last car’ on the Michigan avenue route was turning around on the table at the corner of Woodward and Jefferson avenues, two young men, who had fixed up a straw man in good shape, helped him a board and seated him at the end furthest from the driver. Tjie ‘ dummy ’ man had his hat pulled low, his arms down and was so braced up against the end of the car that he
looked as much like a passenger as anyone. The c moved off after awhile, and as it turned into Michigan avenue an old lady got aboard. She paid her fare, the two young men followed her, and the car moved on again, the driver keeping his eye on the dummy, and wondering if he was going to try to beat his fare.
At, First street the driver rang his bell for fare, and the two young men. and the old woman looked over at the strange man. The car moved up to Third steet, and the driver looked through the window and yelled ‘ Fare,’ and jingled the bell again. There being no response, he opened the door and called out to the straw man.
‘ Say, you! You want to pay your fare! ”
There was no answer, and after going half a block he shouted again:
‘You man, there—walk up here and pay your fare?
One of the young men sat opposite ‘dummy,’ and he squeaked out in reply:
, Drive on the old horse ? ’
‘What! What’s that,’ shouted the driver, pushing the door clear open.
‘ Oh! hire a hall! ’ was the reply.
‘ See here, mister, you’ve got to pay your fare or get off, exclaimed the driver, winding the lines around the brake.
‘Grashus me! If there is going to be a fight let me off! ” shouted the old lady, and she rushed down the car and made a clean jump from the door.
‘ Now, then are you going to pay your fare?’ said the driver as he entered the car.
‘ Pay be hanged,’ was the muttered reply.
‘You’d better look out for him; he’s ugly!’ whispered the other young man to the driver.
‘I don’t care if he’s as ugly as John Jacob Astor; he’s got to pay his fare or off he goes! ’
Tiie driver slid down to the end of the car, spit on his hands, aud continued.
‘Come, now—out with your fare or off you go! ’
There was no reply, no movement; and spitting on his hands again he called out:	'
‘Well, here you come!’ and grabbed ‘dummy’ by the shoulders. His object was to jerk the ‘fellow’ out of doors, and expecting a struggle he put forth all his strength in a mighty effort. It was very successful. The driver went out of the car heels over head, with the straw man on top of him, and the young men leaped off the front end of the car just as the victim was- trying to get his thumb in the straw man’s eye.—Detroit Free Press.
WATSON’S
ART JOURNAL.
DEVOTED TO
Music, Literature, Art and the Drama.
THE ONLY WEEKLY MUSICAL ART JOURNAL j PUBLISHED IN AMERICA.
$4.00 Per AnmiTii.
The Office of WATSON’S ART JOURNAL is 104 East Thirteenth Street, where all Subscriptions and Advertisements will be received.
Address, WATSON’S ART JOURNAL,
104 EAST THIRTEENTH STREET, a3-4t	New York City. ■
THE SCHOLASTIC.
415
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
FOUNDED IN 1842.	CHARTERED- IN 1844.
FTTHIS Inslituiion, incorporated in 1841, enlarged in 1866, and fitted _L up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred students.
Situated near the i ake Shore & Michigan Sonthem Railroad, it is easy oi access from all parts of the United States.
Terms:
Matricu5ation Fee, -	-	-	-	-	§ 5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek inclu-
ded), Washing and Mending of Linens, per session of five-months,	150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each -	- 10 00
Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	-12 50
Use of Piano, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 10 00
Use of Violin, -.	-	----2 50
Vocal Lessons J General Class Principles, -	-	- 10 00
vocal Lessons-jVocalCu]turej	.	-15 00
Elocution—Special Course, -	-	-	-	-	-5 00
Use of Library, (per session) -	-	-	-	-	1 00
Drawing, -------	-	15 00
Telegraphy .-	-	-	-	-	-	-10 00
Tse of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus -	-	5 00
U	t Classical Course, -	-	-	- 1G 00
radnation Fee, -< Scientific Course, -	--	-	- 10 00
G	(Commercial Course, -	-	-	5 00
’ Doctors' Fees and Medicines at Physician's Charges.
Students who sptnd their Summer Vacation at the University are charged extra, -	-	-	-	-	‘ -	35 00
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
Payments to be made invariably in advance.’
Class books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first Session begins on the 1st Tuesday of September; the second on the 1st of February.
-For further particulars, addres .	Rev. P. J. COLOVIN, C. S. C.
CHEAP_MUSIC.
§3.00 for IO Cents!
THREE back numbers of CHURCH’S MUSICAL VISITOR, containing over three dollars worth of new and good music “ vocal and instrumental —all grades ” will be sent postpaid to any address, on receipt of ten cents.
Address,	JOHN CHURCH CO.
3t	Cincl a , O.
JOHN IT. CODY «fc CO., MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
JRo®,
HEADING, HOOPS, AC.
Factory at Junction of P., Ft- W. &. C., Ft. W., M. & G.
G. R. & I. Ft. W.» J. & S., AND W. &. &. E. CANAL.
FORT WAYNE,
GOLSEH & EASTMAN,
Successors to Jno. Clarke, <6 Co.,
DISTILLERS,
31 <fc 33 RIVER STREET,
CHICAGO.
JAMES^BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., . Over Coonleg's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the
University, members of the College Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring I o24-tf _
The
-AN- _
Illustrated Weekly Journal
DEVOTED TO
LITERATURE, ART, MUSIC AND THE DRAMA.
84.00 Per Annum.
Address, THS
169 and 171 FULTON STREET, '	New York,
Where Subscriptions and Advertisements wil be received.
a3 4t
CANDY! CANDY!
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
pAME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy < ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing city of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had ant icipated t he use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand iu native grandeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
‘	St. Mary’s Academy,
■	Notre Dame, Indiana
The Low Prices Stiu. Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
CJYUSTID'Y’ FACTORY^
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	- •	-	15c.
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-	- 25e.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	-	35e.
Caramels ------ 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c.
JProi>ortionately Low Prices to \V Holesale Casli. Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
I
416
THE SCHOLASTIC.
“THE SCHOLASTIC,”
' A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO
THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Published Weekly, During Term-Time,
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
$1.00 PER	.
THE “Scholastic” is the title of a neat little paper published everv week, except in vacation, at the University of Notre Dame. The chief object of this paper is to keep the parents and friends of our Students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline at this University and at St. Mary’s Academy, and of the progress of their sons and daughters in these two institutions. For this purrose, regular weekly reports are given, consisting of the names ol those who deserve, by "their excellent conduct, to be recorded on the Holl of Honor, and who by their perseverance and industry deserve special commendation from their various professor^ and teachers. Other reports, relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of rhe more talented and energetic students, etc., also find place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately informed on all that concerns their children.
The paper also opens a field for aspiring young writers, who might otherwise, through timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactive: “while many articles of an instructive and literary character, from writers of mature mind and ability, render “The Scholastic” a valuable publication for all who desire variety’ and utility in their reading. “The Scholastic" consists oi sixteen widetwo-co umn pages, ten of which will be occupied with reading matter and the remainder wita advertisements.	.
Wotice to AkcLvertlsei’s s
The Publishers will receive a limited number of Advertisements for “The Scholastic," and have arranged upon the following list of prices:
One Page,	(per month,)	-	-	-	-	§10 00
One Column	“	-	-	-	-	-	6 00
Half Column,	“	....	4 00
One-Third Column, “	2 50
One-Eighth Column, “	-	-	-	-	1 50
Address,	Editob of THE SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows: '
GOING EAST.
2.35 a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. m. ; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.12 a. Ji. (No. 2), Mail, over Main Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 P. M.; Cleveland, 9.50
11.57 a. 3t. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. it.; Buffalo 4.20 a. M.	-
9.11 p. m.(No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 P. ar.
8.00 p. 3t. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at ■	Toledo,’2.30 a. st., Cleveland 7.05 a. m., Buffalo 1'10 p. st.
E 5-44 P. M. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST. ■
3.18 A. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. st.
5.24 a. st. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago, 8 30 a. si. '
5.31 p. st. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives al Laporte, 7 30; Chicago, 10. p. si.
5.44 P- m. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 6.35; Chicago, 9.
8.00 a. st. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. st, Chicago 11.10. •
9.15 a. sr. [No. 71 j Local Freight. ’
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
B.	J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
Cliicajgo, Rock Island and E*a elite U. II.
Depot, corner Van Duren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, Grand Pacific Hotel.
Trains.	leave.	arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and
Atchison Express,	10.13 am	3.30 pm
Peru Accommodation,	5.00 p m	9.30 a m
Night Express*	10.30 p m	6.15 a m
Michigan Central Railroad;
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1374.
	Going	East.	
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detrol
Mail -	-	-	5 00 a m	9 02 a m	5 45 pm
Day Express -	- 8 30 a m	11 47 a m	6 30 p m
Accommodation	-	3 35 p in	7 35 pm	8 45 am
Atlantic Express	- 5 15 p m	8 55 p m	3 50 am
Night Express -	- 9 pm -	12 45 pm	8 00 am
	• Going	West.	-
Trains	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago
Mail -	.	.	7 00 a m	4 05 pm	8 05 pm
Day Express -	- 10 20 a m	5 20 pm	9 00pm
Accommodation -	1 50 pm	6 30 am	10 35 am
Evening Express	- 5 40pm '	23<>am	6 3>am
Pacific Express -	- 10 00 p m	5 00am	8 30 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 p m. 630 pm, *9 am. *7 pm.
Arrive at Niles—8 45 a m,-3 55 pm. 710 p m *9 4( Jim,*7 40 pm.
Leave Niles—ti 31 a in 9 1J a in, 5 10 p m. * 8 a m. too in.
Arrive at South Bend—715 a m, 10 a m, 5 55 p m, + 8 40 a m, + 5 40 p m
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Going East, -via INiles.
Depart—8 07 a m. 6 38 p m, 19 07 a m, + 7 07 p m.
Arrive—707am, 9 42 am, 5 46 pm, +832 am, +532 pm
Going West, viaNiles.	.
Depart—310 p in. Arrive—9 42 a m.
{aU Trains marked thus ♦ + run Sunday only.
C.	D. \v HITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH,	W. B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent.
Chicago.	Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near (Ip Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City aud Denver Fast Express, via, Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis, Springfield, Texas and New Orleans Lightning Express, via Main Line,
* Except Sunday. $ Except Saturday.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:40 a.m. .*8:10 p.m.
♦ 12:00 noon *2 50 p m
*12:00 noon *2:50 p.m
♦4:30 p.m. *9:20 a.m.
19:45 p.m. 17:30 a.m.
1 Daily. § Except Monday
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO
PJENNSTLVAN1A CEXTIiAL
DOUBLE TEA0K EAILB0AD.
’ PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. .
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New Pork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 a. m. ] Arrives at New York 7 35 a m ♦ 2d train “	“	. 5.15 p. m.	“	“6 50 a m ♦
3rd train “	“	10.00. p. m. |	“	“ ujs p^*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South and
Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroa’d.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J-	Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
P.M. BO1D, Jr., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphia.
P. K. MYERd, Gen’l Pass.and Ticket Ag’t, Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day.