The Scholastic.
Volume VII.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 10, 1874.
Number 20.
The Progress of Criticism.
Criticism is compared, by Kames, to the filter in the reservoir. It cleanses and purifies our literature and builds a barrier, and a formidable one, against vulgar pretensions, while at the same time it prevents the crude efforts of young authors from gaining a place that is deserved alone by men who have patiently toiled for years and accumulated vast stores of knowledge,—a position reserved for men who have proved the validity of their title. The acccomplishment of such a task demands strength of intellect, keen, vigorous penetration, ready perception of the beautiful both in matter and in form, and a faculty capable of distinguishing the one from the other; and more than all, it demands honor, and firm, decided integrity—without which all else is of no avail. He may be a scholar, a ready and even good reviewer—but a critic, never. No: a critic, like a juror, should have no preconceived opinion of his own. Prejudice and partiality are weaknesses he must overcome (and it is much easier said than done), else he can never rank as first among those who shape, the current of our nation’s thoughts by guiding and ruling the armies of our standard literature. Possessed of all the qualities already enumerated, it is the study of a lifetime, and few even then attain a degree of excellence which will carry ; their labors beyond the century in which they live.
It may be regarded as the highest department of literature, and a complete triumph over the difficulties which are placed in the pathway of the aspirant very properly places him a king in the realm of letters. It is a subject of curious interest to watch the growth and progress of this class of composition—to compare the standard of critics and criticism of one hundred years ago with the standard of to day—to notice the fierce, vindictive spirit with which the tyrants of literature swayed the sceptre of their authority over their unwilling but helpless subjects. At the beginning of the present century the object of criticism seemed to be simply to scourge the author of anything new, vigorous, or original; to attack him in a general way, and, failing in that, they were not loth to descend to the lowest personality. The only object seemed to be to teach him the theory of the divine right of kings and to scourge him into satisfaction had he the temerity to rebel. Such a state of things could not endure. The civil war between author and critic could not last forever—and terminated, as wars seldom terminate, in permanent benefit to both, by limiting in some degree the position of each. Literature has progressed, as a consequence, very rapidly; criticism has a more elevated and Christian spirit; and men who one century ago would have scorned to attempt a competition with such business and malignity are to-day holding the highest positions as critics of our literature. The present century has been remarkable for the great
minds it has called into this branch of art and the influence they have wielded, while in some cases scarcely asserting this authority at all. Not only is this true among the English speaking people, but also in France, Germany and Italy. We are most familiar with the names of Jeffrey, Macaulay, Alison, Carlyle, and in our own country with Lowell, Emerson and Whipple; and they have excited an influence over our habits and manners that is immense, and can never be but imperfectly understood. Who can read that grand essay on taste by Alison, and that still more .vigorous and discriminating criticism on the same by Jeffrey, and not feel that he never before fully understood what the word meant? Jeffrey was a prince among reviewers and critics, says Lowell, and his miscellaneous works should be the “ Blackstone of all future generations of critics.” But the opinion of Whipple is more nearly correct, •who says: “ To Jeffrey the world must ever acknowledge its indebtedness, in this only, that he elevated the tone of criticism and gave to it a vigor of expression, a terseness of style and brilliancy of diction that were only equalled by his want of sympathy with his authors, and charity for their productions.” Nor are they alone to share the honor of elevating the literature of the language. Almost every journal, of any pretension whatever employs a literary critic, and frequently more than one, and they have toiled on in silence and almost without reward; and to them the chief honor is due that American authors rank high in the universal empire of letters.
The defect in American criticism to day is the too lenient spirit of those who presume to be its guides. They are easily carried away by the sensational tendency of the whole bulk of literature, and, when a man does a single clever thing, they are too apt to join the multitude in giving him credit for ability he does not possess in the remotest degree. This arises from two causes: a lack of genuine independence of thought, which insensibly impels them to follow the majority, and the prejudice which arises from political or fixed principles of thought and action. A great number of those who assume the garb of critic not only lack ability, but do not seek to inform themselves in the rudimentary principles of criticism, boldly asserting their own opinions as the standard by which the world shall judge; but the men who think while they read are very certain to receive their opinions for what they are worth; and, were it not so, the world might well return to the merciless sarcasm of Swift and Gifford, which, if it was deficient in sympathy, at least was bold and independent. And thus every attempt at criticism should be. It is the fundamental principle, the basis of the structure; but its development depends on the ability of the man to make knowledge most familiar, to explain truth, and to carry the spirit of generalization and true philosophy of history into the walks and habits of private life.
T. A. D.
154
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Mother’s Kiss.
‘ BY I". P. MALLON.	'
“ Mother, kiss me—kiss your darling, Mamma, kiss your little boy,”— Pleaded thus a blooming cherub, While his bright eye lit -with joy.
Is there one who has not pleaded ?
Is there one who has not felt Its sweet magic, dear and soothing, Or a heart it would not melt ?
Gently down his mother laid him, On the pillow smooth and soft;
Tears flowed, and still he pleaded— “ Kiss me, mamma,”—pleaded oft.
Poor young heart! ’twas quickly beating— Longing for the mamma’s kiss ;
Tender lips how sadly twitching— Asking silently for this.
Said “ My little- son,” the mother, “■He has naughty been to-day, How, my darling, can I kiss thee— Kiss those lips that naughty say ? ”
Mother! see his heart is aching, See he presses his fair brow, See the tears his cheeks are covering And the pillow’s wetted now.
She relents 1 her boy she kisses-, Now his troubles all are o’er;
On his mamma’s breast his head lies— He will naughty be no more.
Ere the morrow broke upon him
His young spirit far had fled ;
Once again the mother kissed him, But the pleading heart was dead.
—St. Laurent College Spectator.
F&mrell to the Old. Year—Greeting to the New!
The last tiny grain in the hour-glass of eventful ’73 has disappeared forever in the boundless depths of the mighty Past. The fretful current of the now departed year, mingling with the continuous tide of life’s rushing river, has hurried us far on our checkered voyage towards the haven of our hopes, the goal of our aspirations, Heaven. But ist turbid waters are no longer master of our destiny; they have receded from beneath us. Providence has preordained that we should disembark from its troubled bosom, and survive its varied -vicissitudes, while it has wTafted its precious freight of pulseless hearts and immortal souls out on that shadowy ocean washing the shores of Time. It is vouchsafed us to drop affection’s tear and murmur the sad sigh of loving remembrance for the many dear devoted ones who have vanished from our side at eternity’s irrevocable summons during the period just closed. For many, yery many, its morning dawned peacefully and auspiciously, budding into brightness and gladness as it neared the meridian. Its noon came, overcast with ominous clouds. The evening merged into a night of darkness and desolation. Its pestilential breath has withered the darling hand of infancy, paralyzed the manly arm of strength, stamped the impress of colorless tranquillity upon the blushing cheek
of beauty, quenched the radiant light of the eye that betrayed the secret of the heart, and stamped .the signet of dissolution upon the furrowed brow of old age. Seventy-Three has been another and luminous revelation of that great and mysterious uncertainty permeating times and seasons, a spectral witness to the immutable law of unceasing mutability, a grim ambassador negotiating but too successfully for the interests of insatiable King Death, and admonishing those who have escaped his w’ell-poised arrow to contrast the vanities or,—if a less substantial word may be employed—the shadows of Time, and the inevitable, the deathless realities of Eternity. '
But the reverend gentleman whose request is the occasion of this article did not intend the writer to moralize on the Old, but to epitomize the ceremonies and entertainments that characterized the first day of the New Year at the University of Notre Dame. No longer willing to remain outside the line of demarcation, we will bid adieu to voiceless Seventy-Three, of melancholy memory to us,and make our obeisance to Seventy-Four, of cheery outlook. -
Let us, while the aroma of New Year’s delights lingers sweetly around, unveil for our readers a little magical mirror in which they may see reflected, though imperfectly, a panoramic view of scenes hereabouts on New Year’s D.iy. We disclaim beforehand all intention of deceiving the unsuspecting by optical illusions or images without substance. The event of the morning, aside from the beautiful arid impressive religious ceremonial which solemnized the festival, was the complimentary calls of the Professors on the Officers of the University. Rev. Father Toohey Prefect of Discipline, was the first to receive the attention of the learned body. Prof. Clarke, in the absence of Prof. Baasen, whom indisposition confined to his room, delivered the congratulatory speech to the Rev. Prefect, throwing in some of his characteristic humor, half-serio, half-comic, and half-scientific, on the happy occasion, and which would have been rapturously appreciated by the jolly Juniors had they been present. Father Toohey replied with that grave good humor so peculiarly his own, to the compliments of the worthy Professor, and the learned body next called upon Rev. Father Brown, the Vice-President. The mellifluous tones of Prof. Ivers’ “ winged words ” put the Rev. gentleman in one of his merriest moods, as his return of thanks, garbed in beautiful language, testified.
Accompanied by Fathers Brown and Toohey, the Faculty then repaired to the Rev. President’s room, where the choicest speech of the day was made by Prof. O’Mahony. We are far from overrating its merits, and still further from designing to speak disparagingly of the other addresses, when we term it, in the words of Addison, a “ delicious little thing.” It called forth a felicitous response from Rev. Father Lemonnier. The fantastically curling wreaths of fragrant havanas and the soft sparkle of mild wines bespoke the correctness of the Rev. President’s supposition that there were other indispensible requisites besides speechmaking, however necessary that may be to fill up the round of New Year’s conviviality. In this his visitors harmonized witn him, if outward cloudy manifestations and inward spirituous refreshment be taken as a criterion.
Prof. Lyons represented the Professors before Very Rev. Father General One who knows, says that the Professor’s remarks “were such as fill the inner eye with visions of the doles and beautiful.” Very Rev. Father General replied in his simple, winning, and impressive way. Very
THE SCHOLASTIC.
155
Rev. Father Granger was next called upon, and responded graciously and paternally to the address of Prof. Schnurrer.
But the innocent pleasures of the forenoon must be sanctified. The sweet communings of paternal and filial affection must be consummated in the Temple of the Most High. Radiant and lovely was the picture the grand altar, with its profusion of decorations, presented to the eye during the celebration of the Holy Mysteries; yet beautiful and pleasing as are all these evidences of externa! devotion so frequently witnessed at Notre Dame, infinitely more beautiful still, infinitely brighter than the dazzling lights of the altar, were the hearts of many who bent in an ecstasy of adoi ing love before the veiled majesty of the Infant King. For these hearts the resonant tones of the grand organ harmonizing with the welling voices of the choir, were only an almost inaudible echo of the notes of joy thrilling their souls where the dear Babe of Bethlehem was then attuning all the chords of love. The sermon was preached by Reverend Father Brown. It abounded in many beautiful and touching passages, preparing his hearers f >r their solemn Consecration that day to the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus. Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament followed the Act of Consecration, and so closed the ceremonies, social and sacred, of the morning.
We are of the unequivocal opinion—some claim it as a philosophical certainty—that enjoyment has its real home, attains its highest sub’imity, in the bosom of the domestic circle. And indeed the bliss of family felicity is not so exclusive or contracted in its influence but it magnetizes all hearts that cross the threshold where it has erected its throne The members of the Faculty who were so kindly received and sumptuously entertained at the homes of Profs. Ivers and Howard will gladly subscribe to the justness of the foregoing remaik. Amongst those who had the pleasure of participating in the bountiful hospitality of the Professors and their estimable ladies, we noticed Rev. Fathers Lemonnier, Toohey and Frere; Profs. Lyons, Schnurrer, O’Mahony and Folan. In the delights of social intercourse we forgot the old, longing cry; “Do they miss me at home?” so hcmelike was everybody and everything around us. Even Prof. Schnurrer, in the exhuberance of his glee, forgot all the miseries endured on that extemporized seat, “the Scholastic Article Box,” in the capricious vehicle that conveyed him from the University. We have heard the Professor exclaim that that “ box” often contained some very weighty articles in its inside, but never before that day did it support such precious matter on its outside. Yet the impress of even so many has left no visible marks upon it.
We came away from our generous entertainers, satisfied that we had sharedin the happiest social feature of the day. Our heartfelt good wishes are theirs forever. May their years be many and happy, and their lives as useful and earnest in the future as they have been in the past. -
A large number, as a friend informed us, of the Faculty, together with some invited guests, amongst whom were Mrs. Ivers and Howard, sat down in the evening to a tempting refection in the dining-room of the Infirmary. After testing its efficacy, spicy speeches were made by Profs. Ivers and Lyons, Brother Francis, and Dr. Lundy. The rose-tinted words of the Doctor, while they rolled their pleasing cadence upon the ears, wove a drapery of sunny smiles on the faces of his auditors. If the thousand and one pills and powders he is ever ready to administer to the
afflicted act as charmingly and unctuously on uis patients, throughout the year, as d d bis eloquence on his audience on this occasion, then will we insure him an enviable repute among the disciples of Esculapius for alleviating the many ills that fljsh is heir to; and his magnanimous sentiment “ that he sincerely hoped there would not be many occasions for the application of his healing art at the University the coming year,” be gloriously realized. It is superfluous to say his auditory cordially joined him in expressing the same hope. The prolongation of the evening’s festivities was now transferred to the grand parlor, where Music sprinkled her showers of melting melodies around. The keys of the piano, under the flexible touch of our young Junior friend, Carl Otto, gave out softest harmonies.
So closed the enjoyments of New Year’s Day, 1874. Slay all who have figured in them live to enjoy many a New Year’s Day, each succeeding one more joyous than the preceding. Then will be realized the wishes of a “ Happy New Year ” to all, wellingforth from the heart of
Harwich.
Lost Occupations.
Half a century ago bellows making was a thriving trade. Every house had a pair of bellows, and in every well-. furnished mansion there was a pair hung by the side of every fireplace. But as stoves and grates took the place of open fireplaces, and as coal was substituted for wood, the demand for bellows diminished, until the business as a separate trade quite died out.
The same is true of flint cutting. Flints were once necessary, not only for fire-arms but for tinder-boxes, and a tinder-box was as necessary for every house aa a gridiron or a skillet. Every one who looks back to childhood of forty odd years ago must remember the cold winter morning'when the persistent crack, crack of flint sent up from the kitchen an odor of igniting tinder and sulphur which pervaded the house. We have no more idea what became of the flint producers than of the old. man of sorrowful memories, who, three or four times a week, called at our door with brimstone matches for sale a half penny a half dozen bunches. Both have completely vanished.
Again, the pin-makers are gone, who though they have been in their graves this quarter of a century, still figure in lectures and essays to illustrate the advantages of division of labor. Instead of a pin taking a dozen or more men to cut, grind, point, head, polish, and what not, as it used to do, pins are now made by neat little machines, at the rate of 3,000 per minute, of which machines a single child attends to half a dozen.
Nail-making at the forge is another lost industry. Time was, and that in this 19th century, when every nail was made on the anvil. Now from 100 to 1,000 nails per minute are made by machines. The nailer who works at the forge has but a bad chance to compete with such antagonists, and he would have no chance at all were it not that his nails are tenfold tougher than the former. As it is, the poor men follow an all but hopeless vocation, and are compelled to live in continual hand grips with poverty.
In former days straw-bonnet making was practiced in every middle-class house where there were growing families, and straw plaiting formed the staple of domestic leisure work. Then bonnets were bonnets, covering the head with a margin of a foot or two to spare and presenting a sort of conical, shell-shaped recess, in which dimpling smiles and witching curls nestled in comfort. The work has vanished and will never reappear, unless the whirligig of fashion should glide again into the forsaken track. ■
136
ME SCHOLASTIC.
Ths
Published every Week, during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
AH communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic? Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
Oneyear..................................$1	CO
Single copies (Sets.) of the publication can be obtained at tiie Students’ Office.
The Telegraph Like between the College and the Novitiate is in good working order at present.
Mr. Fassett, of the Union, and D. Stevenson, also of South. Bend, paid Notre Dame a short visit this week.
Nearly all the students who went home for the Christmas Holidays have returned. We notiee several newcomers.
}/ There are now 1250 volumes in the Circulating'Library. The Library is kept in splendid order by Air. F. X. Edwards, the Librarian.
Mb. Philit Kramer, of Detroit, publisher of the VolJts-blatt of that city, spent a couple of days with us this week. He is an old friend, and ever welcome.
We have just lost one of our best neighbors in the person of Air. Samuel Jennings. We sincerly regret the loss of this old and worthy friend.
The carpenters and masons have finished patching up the Music Hall. It is all right again, and our musicians may blow away with perfect equanimity.
During the beautiful weather of last week the big boiler took upon itself to leak and make other unpleasant demonstrations. The iron-doctor was sent for and repaired the coat of its stomach.
The Annual New Year’s Banquet of the Faculty was duly solemnized this year on New Year’s Night. All the members of the Faculty attended. We need not say that it was a fine affair.
The storm which swept over us last Sunday did not do all the harm it might have done. Although it demolished the roof of the Alusic Hall, and threw down several tons of brick, it failed to harm anybody.
Mr. W. C. Cleland, General Agent of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago Railroad, paid Notre Dame a visit a few days ago, in company with some friends. We hope his visit was as agreeable to him as it was to us.
The members of the Faculty presented Rev. Father Lemonnier, President of Notre Dame, with a magnificent surplice in fine lace, on Christmas Eve. The present was highly appreciated by the recipient, not only on account of its value, but especially on account of the givers.
The Classes resumed last Alonday. The studies are going on as usual. The relaxation of the Holidays has no doubt proved beneficial to all, and given fresh vigor to our hard-working students. But a few days, and the Second Session will begin. Do not forget the Examination which will intervene, but do not be scared home like little boys.
Some extensive improvements are to be made on the grounds between the lakes. A verdant meadow, with fine walks,-bordered with rows of trees, will soon transform the
at present uns:ghtly and cheerless waste. The land between the two lakes is now being redeemed from its marshy state by being covered over with earth from the adjacent bill.
The New Church bravely stood the storm of Sunday last, and checked to a great extent its fury. But for it & protection more damage would have been done aroanel the College. The College dome, which is surmounted by the statue of the Bkssed Virgin, and which should naturally have suffered most, remained serene and firm beneath the feet of the guardian of Notre Dame.
Concgrt,
The members of the Orchestra are now busy with their preparations for a concert they intend to give on the 20th inst. AVe know from the list of pieces which they intend to play that it will be a fine affair. Besides the overtures-by the whole orchestra, there will be quartettes of brass and stringed instruments. Several vocal pieces are also on the board. The Orchestra was never in a more flourishing condition in regard both to the number and efficiency of its members. Several rare and costly instruments, such as bassoon, oboe, etc., were lately added to its repertoire, and the object of the Concert is to obtain funds to pay for these and other instruments which are yet needed. It is not necesary to say that their enterprise will be heartily seconded by the students and our neighboring friends. The tickets to the Concert will sell as follows: For reserved seats, 50 cts; Admission, 25 cts. The Brass Band will play several of its best pieces.
Important.
requirements for entering the commercial course AND FOR ENTERING THE CLASS OF BOOK-KEEPING.
As I am called upon to answer a great number of letters inquiring why this or that student is not studying BookKeeping, I take advantage of our little College paper to give to all whom it may concern the only information that-I can give on the subject: namely, to state the requirements for entering the regular Commercial Course or for entering the Class of Book-Keeping as a special study.
To enter the regular Commercial Course, with a view to receive a Diploma, the student must, 1st, Be sufficiently advanced in Arithmetic to be able to work correctly and with ordinary rapidity in Percentage, and Interest particularly. This is a requirement absolutely insisted upon, as our system of teaching, which is generally ackno wl-edged, by those who know it, to be the ouly true system of imparting a thorough practical knowledge of BookKeeping, strictly requires this knowledge of Arithmetic before beginning the study of Book-Keeping. 2dly, The candidate must either pass a satisfactory examination in Grammar, Reading, Orthography, Geography, U. S. History and Penmanship" or enter the classes in which these branches are taught until he can pass such examination. A deficiency in Arithmetic, however, is the only thing that will prevent him from entering the Class of Book-Keeping at any time at which a class in that branch is started namely, at the beginning of each session; yet no Deploma can be received, till all other branches named are thoroughly known. -	\	-	.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
To enter the class of Book Keeping as a special study, the only requirement strictly insisted upon is a knowledge of Arithmetic such as we have already stated. Hence we beg of our friends and patrons to know that if their sons or wards are not permitted to study Book-Keeping just as soon as they expected, the fault is not ours, but lies in their own deficiency in that branch of study. We are as anxious to see our studentsgo forward in their studies, whatever be their chosen course, as they or their parents are, but we can not lower or destroy our system of studies to accommodate a few who are over-anxious to begin a particular study before they are prepared for it, for this would be sacrificing the interests of all, even of those accommodated, to a present wish to please, which we do not think would be either politic or just either to our students or ourselves.
We can assure our patrons that the interests of their sons or wards will be vigilantly attended to, and that they will be advanced in their studies as rapidly as is consistent with their real interests and the safety of our sjstem of teaching. Hoping that this will satisfy all inquiries, and spare us the pain of being obliged to explain so frequently,
I am, sincerely, etc.,
The Director op Studies.
All Around..
Classes are once more running smoothly.
Nearly all the students have returned from their Christmas vacation.	■
We hear whispers of another Exhibition. Glad to hear them!
The phrase "I’m awful hungry,” is sometimes sufficient to insure a good lunch of—cake.
The “Why Not” Club gave a Holiday hop in South Bend last week. It passed off very pleasantly.
Our long-haired Philosopher seems to possess a natural apathy for the Professor of the tonsorial art.
Some of our Commercial friends have very strong appetites—so strong indeed that they rule every sense of religion or devotion. Hence the rush for the breakfast table.
We are happy to see Dennis O’Connell up and stirring about once more; and we are sure all his friends are likewise glad of it. Until lately he had been confined to his bed, since the first of September.
The. Juniors indulged in an Excursion to St. Joseph’s Farm on the third inst. It would be quite superfluous to say that they enjoyed themselves, for they always do on such occasions.	.
Paying a visit, not long since, to the stereotyping department of the “Ave Maria” Office, we found Bro. Ferdinand there busy as a nailer. He holds sway over that department now, and we consider him highly capable of doing so.
The Juniors’ flag-pole, which stood so much buffeting, at last succumbed, being prostrated by the heavy winds on the fourth inst. Great was the fall thereof.
One of our students, “blowing” about{how cheaply he travelled, said he did not have to pay a cent, as he patronized those railroads which carry their passengers “ through without change.” That is very fine.
What can be more embarrassing to a modest youth than ot ask him in company where is his heart ? Why, indeed,
nothing can be; yet some recently have been affronted with such unparliamentary questions. It is not fair.
In our last number we stated that the Minims had no' Christmas Tree this year. We were not aware at the time that they had a visit from Santa Clause instead. Yes, that old gentleman called on them and bountifully loaded their stockings.
The heavy winds which prevailed on the third and fourth inst. succeeded on the morning of the fourth in taring part of the roof off the Music Hall. It gave the musicians in the building at the time a good scare. Nobody hurt.
On Christmas Eve Rev. Father Lemonnier was made the recipient of a magnificent present in the form of a costly surplice. It was the gift of the Faculty, and was presented on their behalf by Dr. Lundy, who addressed the Rev. President a few remarks expressive of the high esteem and profound regard in which he was held by that body. Father Lemonnier, in reply, returned his sincere thanks to the Faculty, and stated that he would be happy to meet them all in the parlor, Christmas Night. Of course the invitation wras accepted, and all enjoyed the good things set before them on that occasion.
A number of the students have commenced to keep diaries. We are glad to see this, but we have no assurance how long it will be kept up. Many start them and carry them on very well as far as they go, but that is not very far.
Ths Juniors’ Jaunt.
As all our rational acts are prompted by motives, some individuals about here venture to assert that our act of going to St. Joseph’s Farm on Saturday last with the Students of the Junior Department was not rational, because we had no motive to prompt us. We discovered, by our acute logical powers, the sophism by which we were to be' proved insane, and hence “ can turn the tables ” by directing attention to the fact that a loco-motive could not very well prompt, even though we should have succeeded iri catching a wild one.
Well, gentle reader, we did have two kinds of motives, much more serviceable to us than a loco motive—a motive that could not be resisted under the circumstances, notwithstanding the threatening aspect of the weather and the poor condition of the roads. Pleasure, fun and a ride combined to form our moral motive; but farm-teams and wagons made up our physical motive.
Just as the clock struck nine, we proceeded to comply with a request to “pile in,” but in the accomplishing of that feat we very unfortunately forgot the “ three-centers,” with which our overcoat pockets were replete. As there is no good in crying over pulverized cigars, we accepted the situation without betraying our excitement, and proceeded to gather up the nicotian dust, intending to use it in a pinch, if not in a pipe. Aroused from our revery by the familiar noise consequent to a thorough ventilation of juvenile lungs, we discovered that we were in motion. In the van we discerned the manly form of the Chief Prefect of the Department, Bro. Marcellinus, and in medio stetit Bro. Paul, equipped for a hunt, whilst Bro. Leander occupied the rear car, into which also, your humble servant,’ Joe, had “ piled ” himself. Bro. Simon, our worthy commissioner, with Bro. Leopold and a couple of boys, who preferred to ride in the midst of gastronomic articles, fol-..
158
THE SCHOLASTIC.
i
lowed at a distance, with Profs. Lyons and Clarke, in a buggy, still further behind, carrying, like B. B., spoons and knives.
And thus we jaunted on through mud and mire, whilst now and then a sportive twig, trailing under the wheels, would loosen its hold and, rebounding, calico our shirtbosoms and “ spot our countenance o’er.” We heeded not these little catastrophies, but in chatting and singing time moved rapidly, while our wheels turned slowly through the water-filled ruts.
After three hours, we came in sight of our d< stination, and in a short time were welcomed to the St. Joe by the kind Father Letourneau, Chaplain, and the grand high Steward, Bro. Francis de Sales, who, with Bro. Alban, had preceded us on the way.
The good Sisters, although slightly surprised by our unexpected advent, immediately began the preparation of dinner “for sixty,” and we need not say that at two o’clock a very hungry set of boys were well prepared to do it ample justice. Here we will express the sincere thanks of all to Rev. Father Letourneau and to Sister Good Shepherd and her assistants, likewise to Bro. Francis de Sales, for the hospitality they manifested on the occasion, as well as for their efforts in rendering it enjoyable. Long may they flourish!
The few hours intervening between coming and going were well employed in seeing all that could be seen on a farm at this season of the year. Some endeavored to discover whether colts would kick up behind or not; some •wanted to learn a little about butchering, and betook themselves to the slaughter-house; some delighted to ride behind oxen, and others were so much interested in horses that they forgot they had not taken dinner. O..e adventurous youth, of an inquiring turn of mind, climbed to the top of the wind-mill to find out what made it turn around.
At four o’clock word was sent around that we should make preparations to start for home, as only two hours and a half more remained before supper-time. Returning in the same manner in which we went, but much more slowly, we aroused the natives to such an extent that they imagined a tribe of Pottawatomies on the ■war-path.
The distant lights of Notre Dame finally greeted our vision; and as they continued to increase in size and number, our weariness left us and we pictured to ourselves the steam-heated, comfortable apartments of the College, and had a longing desire for supper, which -was now near at near at hand.
In conclusion we would say that we have been on many expeditions, during our College career but in none did we enjoy ourselves more, taking into consideration the unfavorable circumstances under which we went, than on the occasion of our last visit to the St.
Joe.
St. Cecilia EbHomatheaa.
- The following is a synopsis of the doings of this Association previous to the Holidays:	,
The 15th regular meeting took place December 1st, 1873. The society was honored at this meeting with the presence of Bro’s. Francis de Sales, Celestine, and Paul; Prof. Paul Broder, A. M., of Beloit, Wisconsin; Messrs. Crummey of St. Paul, Dillon of Chicago, and others. At the commence
ment of the meeting Mr. J. B. Crummey, by request, delivered “ The Baron’s L ist Banquet,” in fine style. Then Masters W. Gross, J. Ewing, A. Schmidt, B. Baca, F. Egan and J. McHugh delivered selections from the various classic authors. After this, Professor Paul Broder was loudly called for; he rose, and addressed the members at some length, in a most eloquent manner, on the important duties of life. After this the meeting adjourned.
W. Gross, Cor. Sec. pro tem. -
At the 16th meeting, held Dec. 7, 1873, the following members deserve honorable mention: for Declamations and Compositions—J. Cullen, J. McGrath, W. Breen, 0. Tong, J. Beegan, J. O'Connell, J. Marks, J. Freese, F. Egan, H. Shephard, and L. Loser.
At the 17th regular meeting held Dec. 14, 1873, the Society was honored with a visit from Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C, Prof. McAfferty, and others. The members, worthy of mention for Composition and Declamation at this meeting are W. Breen, F. Egan, J. Ewing, B. Norris, B. Baca, A. Schmidt J. McHugh, N. Mooney, E. Ratigan and F. Sweger. Messrs. Berdel and Ball delivered two fine s-lections by request. This over, Prof. McAfferty favored the Society by delivering three very animated Declamations in his usual happy and graceful manner. Rev. P. P. Cooney cl >sed the exercises with a few well-chosen remarks on Literary Pursuits.	,
The time of the 18th and 19th meetings, held Dec. 19th and 22d. respectively, was mostly taken up in reading the “ S andard.” Rev. Father. Lemonnier was present, and expressed himself well pleased with the progress of the members. He said the members ought to be very thankful for the advantages they now have of becoming literary as well as good commercial men. Of the Declamations the principal one this evening was spoken by Wm. Gross; Mr. Berdel was then called for, and delivered Whittier’s “Angels of Buena Vista ” in a manner that would make some of our itinerant elocutionists a little astonished.
At the close of the meeting the President paid a very fine tribute to Mr. Frank Egan, Vice-President of the Dramatic Branch, for his good conduct, zeal and energy in the cause of the Association. Mr. Egan, he said, graduated in the Commercial Department with the First Honors of his Class, and now on his entering the busy scenes of commercial life he wished him all success and happiness. After speaking of the success of the Junior Department under its kind and efficient Prefects, and wishing the members a very pleasant vacation during the Holidays, he adjourned the meeting until January 8th, 1874, at which time there will be a general reunion.
During the sessions of the meetings named above, three applicants were admitted as members, viz.: Messrs. E Ratigan, L. Loser, and H. Shephard.
J. Beegan, Cor. Sec. pro tem.
An organist ought to punctuate well, he is so accustomed to minding nis stops.	...
Cool.—Messrs. R. Simpson & Co. respectfully invite an early inspection of their sponges. Will, the Messrs. Simpson come and have a look ot ours? They can take away the whole lot for nothing, and we_won’t mind opening a black seal to celebrate the riddance.—Zotimus.	..
THE SCHOLASTIC.
159
- St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society.
The first regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society for the scholastic year of 1874 was held Thursday evening, December 11,1873. At that meeting the following officers were elected for the ensuing year:
Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C.
President—Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.
Vice President—F. J. Weisenberger.
Recording Secretary—W. H Ohlen.
Corresponding Secretary—H. Long.
Treasurer—J. McIntyre.
First Censor—T. McNamara.
Second Censor—H. Faxon.	-
Librarian—J. Keilty.	.
Sergeant-at-arms—W. Darst.
The President then made a few remarks and the meeting adjourned until Thursday, Dec. 18,1873.	•
•	W. H. Our ex, Secretary.
Subscriptions to ths Hew Tabernacle.
■	[continued.]
Sister M. Ambrose, Supr. St. Cecilia’s Academy, Washington, D. C.............................. 10	00
Miss Bridget Moroney, Memphis, Tenn............ 10	00
Miss Catherine Wilson, Memphis, Tenn........... 10	00
Miss Hanora Slevin, Memphis, Tenn.............. 10	00
Mr. J. Keefe, St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Notre Dame, Ind........................................... 10	00
Mr. Webster, St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Notre Dame, Ind........................................... 10	00
William Sweeney, Massachusetts................. 10	00
Mary Agnes Doyle, Minneapolis, Minnesota...... 10 00
[to be continued.]
The oldest example known of harmony in music is the treatise of a learned monk, Hucbald, of St. Amand in Flanders, who lived between 840 and 930, and was an earnest student of Greek music. His art was to add-to the tenor a second part like it, but four or five notes higher, or add a third to run with the upper melody in the octave beneath. This invention was called the organum.
SAIHT MARY’S ACADEMY.
'	St. Mary’s Academy, Jan. 7, 1874.
Arrivals.—Misses R. Callery, Chicigo, Illinois; B. Johnson, Pinckneyville, Ill; L. Harrison, Kokomo, Indiana.
Although for two weeks no report has appeared from St. Mary’s, there has been no lack of vitality among the merry crowd who spent their Holidays here, for they have fully enjoyed the relaxation from study and class—and, what with devotions and social r^mions, New Year’s greetings, a trip to Niles, and dramatic entertainment, the time has passed rapidly and pleasantly for all.
The return of the absentees affords a very joyous excitement, and the interchange of the news of here and there will give additional zest to the recreations. But the one idea now is, Examination, and every one is settling down o serious work. The present term has been very satis
factory, and all seem to be inspired with great confidence for the future. The Second Term will commence the first of February and so rapidly does time appear to fly at St. Mary’s, that Commencement Day with its honors and rewards seems already close at hand.
Next week the regular reports will appear. The Tablet of Honor contains the names of those who have received perfect notes; for though a Number Two in politeness or amiability does not deprive of the seven good points atjthe end of each week, or the Monthly Certificate, it does deprive of a place on the Tablet of Honor.
DNIVEESITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA. •
.Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1814, enlarged in 1S66, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern £ Northern Indiana Railroad, t is easy of access from all parts of the Uuited States.
TERMS:	;
Matriculation Fee, --------	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding,and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing .
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- IFO 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, -	--	--------10 00
Use of Violin, -----	-----	-	2 00
Drawing, -	---------- 15 CO
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	_	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 16 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are ' charged, extra, ----------	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. LEIGONNIEH, C.S.C.
President.
THE BEST PAPER! TRY IT!
BEAUTIFFULLY ILLUSTRATED,
THE sctetstiitic a>ierican now in its
29th year, enjoys the -widest circulation of any weekly newspaper of the kind in theworld. A new volume commences January 3, lt74.
Its contents embrace the latest and most interesting information pertaining to the Industrial, Mechanical, and Scientific progress of the World; Descriptions, with beautiful engravings, of New~Inventions, New Implements, New Processes, and Improved Industries of all kinds; Useful Notes, Recipes, Suggestions and advice, by Practical writers, for Workmen and Employers, in all the various arts.
The SCIENTIFIC A5IERICAN is the cheapest and best illustrated weekly paperpublished. Every number contains from 10 to 15 original engravings of new machinery and novel inventions.
JEjVGrRA.’VTDi'GrS, illustrating Improvements. Discoveries, and Important Works, pertaining to Civil and Mechanical Engineering, Milling, Mining and Metallurgy; Records of the latest progress'in the Applications of Steam, Steam Engineering. Railways, Shipbuilding. Navigation, Telegraphy, Engineering, Electricity, Magnetism. Light and Heat. -
Mechanics, Engineers, Inventors. Manufacturers. Ci emists. Lovers of Science. Teachers. Clergymen. Lawyers, and People cf all Professi''"®. will find the SCI2ETNTIFIC AMERICAN) seful to them. It should have a place in every Family, Library. Study, auu Counting Room; in every Reading Room, College, Academy, or School.
A year’s numbers contain 832 pages and Several Hundred En-gbavings. Thousands of volumes are preserved for binding and reference The practical receipts are well worth ten times the subscription price. Terms $3 a year by mail. Discount to Clubs. Specimens sent free. May be had of all News Dealers.
TD A f 11 iji'VTrpci In connection with the SCIEN-
L Ya JL JLIN JL O. TIFIC
Messrs. Munn & Co. are solicitors of American and Foreign Patents, and have the largest establishment in the world. More" than fiftythousand applications have been made for patents through their agency.	■	-
Patents are obtained on the best terms, Models of New Inventions nd Sketches examined and advice free. All patents are published, in the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN the week they issue. Send for pamphlet, 110 pages, containing laws and full directions for obtaining Patents.	•	, -
Address for the Paper, or concerning Patents, MUNN & CO., 3T Park Row New York. Branch Office, cor. F and 7th Sts., Washing-on. D. C.	•
160	THE SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
WEEKLY, SEMI-WEEKLY, AND DAILY,
THE WEEKLY SUN is too widely known to require any extended recommendation: but the reasons which have already given it fifty thousand' subscribers, and which will, we hope, give it many thousands more, are briefly as follows:
ft is a first-rate newspaper. All the news of the day will be found in it. condensed when unimportant, at. full length when of moment, and always presented in a clear, intelligible, and interesting manner.
It is afirst-rate family paper, full ofentertaiingandinstructive reading of every kind,but containing nothing that can offend the most delicate and scrupulous taste.
It is a first-rate story paper. The best tales and romances of current literature are carefully selected aud legibly printed in its pages.
It is a first-rate agricultural paper. The most fresh and instructive articles on agricultural topics rt gularly appear in this department.
It is an independent polit ical paper, belonging to no party and wearing no collar. It fights for principle, and for the election of the best men to office. It especially devotes its energies to the exposure of the great corruptions tnat now weaken and disgrace our country, and threaten to undermine republican institutions altogether. It has no fear of knaves, and asks no favors from their supporters.
It reports the fashions for the ladies and the markets for the men especially the cattle-markets. to which it pays particular attention.
Finally, it is the cheapest paper published. One dollar a year will secure if for any subscriber. It is not necessary to get up a club in order to have THE WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Any one who sends a single dollar will get the paper for a year.
We have no travelling agents.
THE WEEEEW SUIN'.—Eight pages, fifty-six columns. Only §1.00 a year. No discounts from this rate.
THE SEMLWEEKEY SUiV.-San-e Size, as theDaiiySun. S2.OOayeir. Adiscountof 20 per cent.toclubs of IO or over.
THE DAILY SUIN'.—A large four-page newspaper of twenty-eight columns. Daily circulation over 120,000. All the news for Scents. Subscription price, 50 cents a month or SG.OOayear. To clubs of IO or over a discount of SOper cent. Address, “THE SUIN', ’’New York City.
On and after Sunday, November 2,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows: GOING EAST.
2.32 a. 31. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 33: Cleveland, 2.45 p. 3t.; Buffalo. 8.55 p. st.
10.10 A. 3f. (No. 2), Mail, over Main and Air Lines; Arrives at Elkhart. 10.50; Toledo, 5.10 p ar.
11.58 p. 3t. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. at.; Buffalo 4.05 a. at.	'
9.11 p. 3t. (No. 6', Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo. 2.40: Cleveland. 7.05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. al.
5.10 p. ar. (No 52), Local Freight. GOING WEST.
7.05 a. at. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.10; Chicago 11 a. at.
5.20 a. ar. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, S 50 a. at.	•
6.42 a. at. (No. 9>. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7 35; Salem Crossing. 8.05: Grand Crossing, 9.37: Chicago 10.15.
3.45 p. at. (No. 1), Special Chicigo Express Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 6.40; Chicago, 9.20 p. at.
9 10 a. at. (No. 51), Local Freight.	.
Note. Conductors arc positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GEDDINGS, Freight Agent.
C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent. South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gcn'l Sup't.
THE OLD «• RELIABLE” DWIGHT HOUSE, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
JS'” Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9 and 15; East. Nos. 2, 10 and 16. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Line points change cars at Elkhart without delay. Warsaw Express (connecting with"No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 1.40 p. 3t.. running through to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a. m., and 4.05 p. sr., running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers for Detroit must take Nos. 2. 8 or 16, as through tickets are not good via Air Line,—2 and 8 carry through coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance Tickets, K. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent, or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Depot, at the head of Lafayette and Franklin Streets, South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. S. POWELL, Ticket Agent.
(
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen vi-iting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay,
NILES B SOUTH BEND R.R.
GOING SOUTH.
nov 15—tf.
JERRY KNIGHT, 1 ________
CAPTAIN MILLS, [Proprietors.
PEWSTLVAMA CEJTBAL
DOUBLE TBAOK EAILBOAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO,
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New Work without Change.
Isttrain leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 1130 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	9.00 p. m “	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline “with trains North and South, and a
Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON,-AssistantSuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jn., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYERS. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass't Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.
X.OVISVIZ.X.E N. ALBAN? & CHICAGO H.R.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1S73, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:
GOING NOE TN.
Pass............7.29	r. m.
Freight.........2.48	a. 3t.
Freight.........8.57	P.	M.
Pass............9.21	a.	m.
GOING sours
Pass................8 23 r.ar.
Freight.............10 47 A.3t.
Freight.............4.45 a.3i.
Pass................11.23 A.31.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Leave Niles,
Leave South Bend, ic
Arrive South Bend,
GOING NORTH.
8.20 a.m.
11.00 a.m.
6.50 p.m.
Arrive Niles,
SUNDAY TRAINS.
- 10.00 a.m. I Leave South Bend, 6.00 p.m. I	“
-	7 35 a.m
9.55 a.m
5.55 p.m
- 8.50 a.m
11 30 p.m
7.20 p.m
- 10.30 a.m
7.00 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Liue
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and WashingtonJ Express (Western Division))
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Slain Line,
St.Louis and SpringfieldLightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson- • vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE. AKBIVE. ’
*9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m]
*9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
*9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m, ,.*4:10 p.m. - *9:40 a.m,
+6:30,p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 87:15 a.m.
4:9:45p.m. §7:15 a.m.
i
. 1
4
i
i
i
4
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only 4: Except Saturday. S- Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	•	.
Pullman Palace Pining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, -	J. c. SIcSIULLIN,
. Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO..
CHICAGO.
1
j
II