Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, AUGUST 29, 1874.	Number 1.
*
Ths First Amoricaa Pilgrimage.
The 30th of July was a day of great joy for the good fathers and brothers of the Congregation of the Holy Cross at Notre Dame, Indiana. At 5 o’clock in the afternoon the noble college chimes by their sweet tunes, whose beautiful sounds received additional charms from the mingling of the brazen-tongued voice of the huge bell, gave notice of the safe return of the much-beloved Superior-General, Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C.
The reception was, as might be expected, most cordial. Joy beamed on the countenance of every one, when, as if moved by a secret voice, the good religious entered at once the house of the Lord in order to thank the great giver of all gifts by a solemn Te Deum. And really they had reason to be grateful, for by the hindshaking with Father-General each of them seemed to feel, that the hand of the still vigorous, but venerable patriarch, was the very hand, that but a few weeks ago enjoyed the high favor of being affection ately pressed by the highest dignitary on earth, and authorized to confer the apostolical benediction on all those committed to his charge. Every one felt that he was in the presence of a man who, in spite of his advanced age, could not refrain from joining a pilgrimage attended by many hardships, in order to proclaim, in union with his venerable fellow-pilgrims to Europe, nay, to the whole world, the strong faith of the youthful American Church, and her devoted attachment to the Holy See, and to gather in the Eternal City, the central point of divine grace, new strength, in order to enter with still greater courage on the arena of the present great conflict, to wield the sword of the spirit in the interest of justice and truth.
The American pilgrimage is an occurrence of no small importance. In history it is unique. It is true, that in regard to number it was by no means in proportion to the large number of American Catholics; but, let us be of good cheer, for history teaches, that everything truly grand and noble has had generally smill beginnings and many difficulties to surmount; and who does not bear in mind, that from a little grain of mustard seed came forth a tree, which within 2,000 years has spread its giant branches all over the earth, and under its cooling shades millions and millions have found and still find refreshment and strength. It is therefore, not impossible that God, in His mercy, has secretly decreed that this sacred band, however small, shall nevertheless be the cause from which He will achieve results of such importance, as for the present may lie beyond our comprehension. And if the signs of the times do not mislead us, it seems that the land on whose soil the great and noble-hearted Columbus, a genuine Ultramontane, planted the sign of our redemption, is on the eve of great events. '
Valedictory.	. I
----	• i
. i
DELIVERED BY CHARLES, J. DODSE, OF THE CLASS	j
OF ’74.
Another collegiate year has drawn to its close. One	j
more jewel has been added to the already sparkling dia- - I dem of Notre Dame. Again has the time arrived when.	' I
joy and sorrow are commingled. Classmates, this is for	- j
us at once a proud, a melancholy occasion!	i
Weare assembled for the last time,-soon to separate;	j
and the thought that it may be forever, excites feelings of ’ I regret and pain. On the faces of the majority of the stu-	•-»
dents are pictured the anticipated pleasures of a delight- •	I
fill vacation, of a happy reunion with friends and beloved	|
relations. To such all is mirth, happiness, joy. Their	. >
minds are undisturbed by any thought of the realities of	i
life; no anxiety for the future dampens the ardor of their anticipations. The sad farewell does not darken that	q
“ hope which springs eternal in the human breast.”	. !
From the frolicsome little Minim to the more staid Sen-	’ j
ior, “vacation” is always looked to with throbbing and	!
impatient hearts. Classmates, we also, in years not long	c J
gone by, ardently sighed for the return of vacation. We	।
too, have passed sleepless nights, conjuring up the exciting	'
sports and pleasant times we should have at home,—but	'
then, we were confident of returning to renew our studies	. i
and associations.	•
Far different with us, is it now! The small piece of	.
parchment we so anxiously expect soon to receive, will bear evidence that our College life has terminated .	.
Surely, we shall not be regarded as unmanly, if we confess	-
the sorrowful feelings which fill our hearts, when we real- ' .	■
ize that our school-days, those rare happy days, are over. - -It is difficult for us to comprehend that this period of our .	’
lives so replete with all that is gay and joyous, is about to	, 1
end forever. Of it the poet s-iys:	-
“YHappy the school-boy! did he prize his bliss,	. -c
’ Twere ill exchanged for all the dazzling gems	. ’	' .
That gaily sparkle in ambition’s eye ;
His are the joys of nature, his the smile,	. A
The cherub smile of innocence and health,	. '
Sorrow unknown, or if a tear he shed	’	-
He wipes it soon.” •
We stand, classmates, as it were, on a summit separating	J
the sunny past from the unknown future. Days, months, and years, have we plodded our wreary way. up the steep,	. •
rugged hill of knowledge. In this pursuit, close association has bound us with the golden chain of friendships which ?	,
naught but death can sunder. True, we have reached the	£-
goal for which we have been toiling, but it is at the sacrifice of our happy, happy school-boy days. Soon the hotly- -contested game of ball, the lively rowing-match, the pleas-	.
ant labors of both our literary and dramatic societies, the	• .
• • nllybhnd-rehearsals, ^erepndes.and-watks.'ip.iafword °ur ^ightffll conn$c&>n6*wit|i lovm.No^re»j3jtcfe are to be ^iiiiiUqr^d amdng'tfie tiring’s of the past. But, companions, .such being inexorable destiny, let us bear it with fortitude.
. We are about to exchange our quiet scholastic life for the busy, exciting turmoil of the world, with its temptations and its pleasures. The transition is great, but I trust we may go hence clad in the strong armor of the principles of morality and virtue, ever upheld and taught here. Let us adhere to those teachings, and they will save us from the melancholy fate of thousands.
Yonder stands our Alma Mater, and who of us through all time to come, shall not bear willing testimony to the assiduity with which she has labored to cultivate our men-, tai faculties, and improve our moral condition ? She has indeed been a “Benign Mother” to us, and now the time has arrived, when we may reflect credit or dishonor upon her. To-day we step, as it were, upon the world’s stage, where will soon be seen the use which we have made of our opportunities here.	1
Higher evidences of merit will be required than the display of diplomas, proud as we may be of them. Pure and steady habits, high-souled principles and solid learning will be expected of us, by parents and friends. I indulge the fond hope that we will not disappoint them, but may add to the qualities mentioned, strength of character, decision and vigor of action. Let us select the vocation in which we can prove most beneficial to our fellow-man, - most useful to ourselves, and which is most congenial to ' our dispositions, and having done so, adopt for our motto “Excelsior."
-	“ ’Tis not in mortals to command success ;
. But we’ll do more, classmates, we’ll deserve it.”
Is there one among our number whose heart does not swell with patriotic pride when he contemplates the growing greatness of his country, and the freedom and equality ’of her institutions! It is no vain boast to be the son of the Republic whose inhabitants, by their energy and valor, in less than a century, have extended its dominion from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean; its States, from thirteen, to thirty-seven, with still a boundless territory to be settled; its population, from three to forty millions of souls,-—all united in one vast and glorious union, which, thanks to the bravery of her citizen sfldiery and the wisdom of her statesmen, has defeated the attacks of its enemies, foreign and domestic, and is, at this moment, one of the most powerful nations in the world.
We also glory in the intellectual pre-eminence of our country. Her victories in every war attest the genius of her generals, while her institutions bear witness to the sagacity of her law-givers. Classmates, .in this nation, thus favored of heaven, equality''is the grand pervading principle. Its offices of honor and trust are open to all .classes and conditions of life. Here it may be truly said.—
“ Honor and shame from no condition rise;
Act well your part, there all the honor lies.”
Need any of us, then, despair of success with such opportunities as are presented in our America?
- -Well do I know I utter a sentiment which will meet a ready response in your hearts when I say we are all proud -of Notre Dame, and rejoice at the' eminence she has attained among the educational institutions of this great -country. How gratifying to her enterprising and pious founders it must be to contemplate the wonderful progress
L ’■	.
she has made and is making. Each.year has witnessed new improvements, in every department, to facilitate the great objects for which she was founded. Her fame is secure. She is destined to stand as a proud monument of the indomitable energy, wisdom and piety of the good Fathers and Brothers who have made her what she is.	.
Would that our good name, classmates, were equally secure; but we must be the artificers of our own fortune. I trust there is not one of us who is not imbued with laudable ambition and a determination to inscribe his name on the roll of honor. In an age like -this, no youth can supinely fold his arms, and remain an indifferent spectator of the achievements of human intellect. Intelligence controls, and degradation is the inevitable consequence of ignorance.	-
When we shall fling our little banner to the breeze, beside “ Excelsior ” let us write those other, glorious .words, “ Labor omnia vincit." We may then:
"	“ Pluck bright honor from the pale-faced moon,
Or dive into the bottom of the deep,	■
Where fathom line could never touch the ground, And drag up drowned honor by the locks.” ’
Before the final adieu, I must express the deep regret shared alike by all, when, in looking over the audience, we-fail to see a well-known venerated gentleman, the founder of Notre Dame, whose majestic head is covered with the frosts of many winters, whose commanding, graceful person and benignant countenance bear the impress and reflect the image of the pure soul witliin. May He who rules the winds and the storms of the deep grant unto Very Rev. Father Sorin a safe return, and .although we j may not be here to welcome him, others will, and they | must tell him how his young friends of the class of ’74	|
lamented his absence.	-	;
Pious and venerated Father Provincial, you who have - | watched over our spiritual welfare with such earnestness ; and solicitude, we shall never forget. .	1
Honored and loved President and Vice President, respected Professors, it is with feelings of heartfelt gratitude i for innumerable acts of kindness that we sever our pleasant	|
relations with you.. Let me add in doing so that we will	|
ever bear in mind your patient care, your persevering ef- . | forts to teach us the things which we came here to learn. |
Worthy Prefect of Discipline, with your faithful assist- | ants, you who have sought so earnestly to .perform your | trying and thankless duty, be assured we shall carry with	|
us the remembrance of your, kind efforts to guide us ] aright, and now we bid you all an affectionate adieu.	J
• Of yon, dear old.Notre Dame, home of our happy school- s boy-days, we must also take leave. In your spacious halls 1 we have passed many delightful hours, the recollection of ] which can never be effaced from memory. We utter the 1 word farewell with our lips, but you shall ever abide in | our heart of hearts.	’
Classmates, dear companions of my labors and pleasures, j we are about to separate, and should it be our fate never to j meet again on this earth, may we meet in that beautiful I land where there are no sad partings but all happiness and j ■joy. “ So fare thee well,—and may the indulgent gods	J
grant thee every wish thy soul can form! Once more ,a farewell.”
It is actually said that there is a dog in South Bend so I weak that he has to lean up against the wall to bark.
T H E S C H 0 L A S T I C .
&
Transit of Venus.
- e	[continued.]
While each of the before-mentioned methods require at least two stations, a greater number would control and 'support each other, and allow ns to take the average result of a greater number of observations. Four stations at the corners of a large quadrangle on the surface of the earth might give two sets of stations for each method. But this year the stations may be nearer to one hundred.
Careful preliminary studies have already determined on what portion of the earth the transit will be visible. The most available points will be turned to account for stations. Some of the best points,' too, seem almost inaccessible, still there is a vast line of posts determined on in the northern hemisphere, and quite a number to correspond with them in the southern. Beginning at Alexandria in Egypt, the . line stretches northward and eastward through Palestine, Georgia, Siberia, Tartary, Middle Asia and Northern China, to Yedoin Japan, perhaps to Honolulu in the Sandwich Islands. Along a great part of this line the Russian telegraphic wires will give exact longitudes, thus affording a fine field for the use of Delisle’s method. In the southern hemisphere, the line may be set down as commencing at the Cape of Good Hope, bending southeastwardly to the lately discovered Antarctic lands, passing south of Australia, then turning upwards towards the equator, and terminating at Nukahiva in the Sandwich Islands, in the south Pacific Ocean.
Southeast of the Cape of Good Hope, and lying in about the 48th degree of south latitude, and on an east and west line, are situated the islands of Prince Edward, Crozet, St. Paul, Reunion and Kerguelen Lands; and further south, if the southern summer will have sufficiently melted the snows, and ciriven back the ice-barrier to allow the observers to'land and work, at Campbell’s Land in New Caledonia, and in other places, stations will be placed, be-between which and corresponding stations in the northern line in central Asia, north of the Himalaya Mountains, Halley’s method will be carried cut. The distance between several of these northern and southern stations will exceed 6,300 miles on the same line of longitude, ■while the distance on an east and west line from the shores of the Black Sea to Yedo in Japan will give 7,000 miles, on which the principles of Delisle can be tested to their utmost limits, being aided by the Russian telegraph through the Amoor country and Southern Siberia. It is not alone the determination of the distance of the sun from our earth that it is hoped to establish by these stupendous operations, but that the distance of some of the stars may also thereby be determined. To know the size of a star, its distance must be determined. The problem given astronomers to solve in determining the distance of the stars was one of stupendous difficulty. It was to be determined by observations made in different parts of the earth’s orbit, separated by 180 millions of miles of space. All stars except nine or ten remain unchanged in direction. But what must be their distance when a change of 180 million miles in the place of observation caused no perceptible change in their direction ?
The star Alpha Centauri is 210,000 times more distant than the sun. Another star, 61 Cygni, which was estimated to be three times the distance of Alpha Centauri, astronomers have since found to be not three times, but
twice the distance. Now here was an error of. 210,000 times the distance of the sun from'the earth, and yet their error in instrumental measurement was so small that it. • could scarcely be appreciated, for at. present there is no way known to tell the size of a star, only by measuring its light. The star Alpha Centauri has been found to shine with the 17-millionth part of the sun’s brightness. If the sun were moved to the distance of that star, it would be the 40-millionth part of its present brightness. That star would shine three times as brightly as the sun does if it were placed beside it, and its surface is five times that of the sun’s. All this supposing the surface of the same intrinsic brightness as the sun. Centauri is 15 degrees east from the Southern Cross, and 36 degrees from the South * Celestial Pole. The king of stars, “ Sirius,” or the Great Dog Star, in “ Canis Major,” is 100 times as bright as the sun, and its volume exceeds the sun 2,000 times. But how . do we know that these stars are suns like ours?—that these stars are not vaporous? By the method of the spectroscope it could be shown that the stars give a rainbow-tinted streak, crossed by dark lines; and this ptoves that these stars are suns like our own.
Wonderful as are the discoveries that have been made in the science of astronomy within the present century, it is confidently believed by those who are capable of forming a judgment on the subject that if the operations to be carried out on the 8th of December next are successful it will be an event of greater importance to the science of astronomy than any that has ever taken place.
The interest taken by the learned of all nations,—the talent, influence and wealth now being employed, exceeds that brought to bear upon any other scientific subject ever before sought after. There is no art or science so vitally interested in the advancement of astronomy as that of navigation, and it is for the advancement of commerce, and the success and safety of their subjects engaged in navigating the most remote regions of the globe, even to the efforts made to reach the North Pole, in which attempt daring men are at this miment engaged, that induce Governments to be so liberal in giving their assistance.
In the latter part of May, orders were issued by the . American Government to place the sloop-of-war Sumatra in commission, and at the disposal of the gentlemen having the superintendence of these vast scientific operations, which involve the entire length of the Pacific ocean, from the ice-bound shores of Campbell’s land, within the 68th degree of South latitude, to the Straits of Behring on the verge of the Arctic Circle, in 68 degrees north latitude, in- ' eluding 136 degrees of latitude, or some 9,400 miles for a base line.	'
Eight parties of astronomers have been told off to occupy as many stations. The official list has just been published ; each party is to consist of one chief astronomer or director, and one assistant astronomer, one chief photo--grapher and a first and second assistant, making 5 officers and a proper number of mechanics for assisting in the' . erection of the necessary observatories and structures. The following is a list of the names of the gentlemen who are appointed to direct each party, and of the station to’; which each is appointed. It would be advisable to-preserve this list, as it will be very interesting to refer to it* hereafter, when the work performed at each station will be examined with the deepest interest by the ablest mathematicians and astronomers in the world.. .	... 2	.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Vladivostock, Siberian Russia, has been assigned to Prof, Hall, U. S. Navy, as chief; his assistant astronomer is O. B. Wheeler, of Detroit, Michigan. Nagasaki, Japan— chief of party, Prof. George Davidson, U. S. Coast Survey, with O. H. Titman, U. S. Coast Survey, first assistant. Pekin, China,—chief of par'y, Prof James C. Watson, of the Ann Arbor, Michigan, Observatory; assistant astronomer not yet named. Crozet Island,—-chief of party, Captain C. W. Raymond, V. S. Army, Engineers; assistant astronomer, First Lieutenant S. E. Tdm in, U. S- Engineers. Kerguelen Island,—for chief, Lieutenant, Commander G. T. Ryan, U. S. Navy; assistant astronomer, Lieutenant Commander C. T. Train, U. S. Navy. Hobart Town, Tasmania,—chief of party, Prof. William Harkness, V. S. Navy; assistant astronomer^ Leonard Waldo, Commercial College, New York. Bluff Harbor, New Zealand,— chief, Dr. C. F. Peters, Hamilton College, New York, Ob-aervatory; first assistant, First Lieutenant, E. W. Bass, U. S. Army Engineers. Chatham Island,—chief, Edwin Smith, U. S. Coast Survey; assistant astronomer, Albert H. Scott, U. S. Coast Survey.
It will be seen by the above th it the observations to be taken over the whole of the North and South Pacific, a space covering nearly one-third of the surface of the globe, have been assigned to American astronomers. B it Americans need not fear for the ho ior of their scientific flag when it is carried by such men as Prof. Watson of Ann Arbor, Michigan, and Prof. Peters of Hamilton Observatory, for these two names are known over the astronomical world, and right gillan'ly will they be supported on the day of trial by their countrymen, although separated from them by distances so vast that it causes one to doubt the possibility of such an event as the taking of observations of the same object, at the sime instant, from points situated at from six to seven thousand miles distance, or from points the m-'st r-'in-ite that cm be occupied upon our earth at the sime time.
The most powerful instruments of the most cel brated observatories of the world will be taken down and removed to those distant regions, where the erection of even temporary structures will be attended with great trouble and risk, for a very slight acei 1 -nt to any of the principal instruments would render in< ffe<-tual all the 1 ibor, expense and hopes connected with, not that p irticu’ar st it ion alone, but with the two other st itions with which it was in connection—one lying in neirly the same Intitule a id the other in nearly the same longitude.
Great reliance is planed on the use of photography, and three gentlemen prominent in that science have been selected to accompany each pirty. N jw and very el >b irate instruments-have been brought into requisition, and ihe most able operators in the Union have b en selected, three of whom are from Indiana.
An event occurred on the 8th of December, 1851, which has caused it to be memorable even to the end of lime. This was the promulgation of the Dogma of the Immaculate Conception of our ever Blessed Mother, Mary Immaculate, by our venerable and holy Pope Pius IX. when surrounded by all the princes and bishops of the Church, the most numerous council that ever assembled even in venerable Rome. May the blessed Mother of our, Divine Redeemer look on with a favorable eye and bless the endeavours of her children in seeking to develop the won-
ders of the firmament, so as to increase man’s reverence for his Almighty Creator.
It is truly wonderful-to observe the total indifference with which the mass of mankind observe marvels passing nightly before their eyes,—the boundless firmament, the starry heavens, sweeping majestically and unerringly past. The most learned men and the most profound thinkers, have spent the most valuable portion of their lives in contemplating, naming and mapping every star in the Heavens. The famous German astronomers spent 18 years in the observation of the planet Mars. And years were spent in observing the motions of the little double star No 61 Cygni, (in the constellation of the Swan) with the greatest advantage to the science.
If the smallest star visible even with the telescope should disappear, it would be missed as was the case at the time of the discovery of the planet Neptune, by M. Le Verrier in 1815. In this case, the evidence of Mr. Walker, of the Washington Observatory d-cided the question, that, where there was a star several years ago, there ds now a . vacancy, and that by its movement it has proved* itself to be a planet.	J. F.
DB. A. C. Dodge.
HONORS FOR AN HONORABLE BURLINGTONIAN.
We take real pride and pleasure in announcing that the University of Notre Dame, at South Bend, Indiana, has conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws upon our honorable Mayor, Gen. A. C. Dodge. The honor is well bestowed, and our Mayor’s legion of friends, comprising all shades of politics and religious belief in this city will heartily indorse the sentiment of the Dubuque UtralA: “ This is a mark of appreciation of the sterling worth, noble qualities and excellent hard sense of Gen. Dodge, that tens of thousands of friends throughout Ib.va will b; glad io see.” We heartily congratulate the Doctor on his accumulated honors, but we must confess to feeling a little curiosity to see him home again, and shake hands with a min who can lead the procession on this impending Fourth of July with the title. His Honor the Mayor, the Honorable General A. C. Dodge, LL D. For a ciiizen of the Republic, that is b- ing pretty well titled.
The Dodge family are the descendants of the Doges of Venice.
Eloquence—-Lord Chesterfield said that the.common people regard an eloquent man as a supernatural being, and endowed with some peculiar gift of heaven. He insists that an effective speaker is as much a mechanic as a good shoemaker, and that the two trades are equally to be acquired by the same patient application. Without being willing-to agree with him to the fullest extent of this sweeping observation, it is certainly grounded in truth, and is full of encouragement to all who are disposed to put forth efforts for their advancement in this department.
A wag, with the word “ whoa,” brought a horse, driven by a young man, to a dead stop. “ That’s a fine beast of yours,” says the wag. “Yes, a pretty good sort of an animal, but he has one fault. ■ He was once owned by a butcher, and is sure to stop whenever he hears a calf bleat.”	‘
THE SCHOLASTIC-.
The SehnUstw*
Published every Weeh during Term, Time at
. NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
One year.....................................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Ordination.
Rev. John A. O’Connell, C. S. C., was raised to the dignity of the priesthood on Sunday morning, August 23, 1874/ by the Rt. Rev. Bishop Gilmour of Cleveland, as-• sisted by Very Rev. Father General, Fathers Letourneau and Vagnier, and Messrs Hudson and Zahm. The little chapel of Our Lady of Liretto, in which the event took place, was very crowded. At half past six the Bishop commenced the Mass. May the newly ordained Father livelong to fulfil the new duties imposed upon him. He said his first Mass on Monday. Father O’Connell has long ago completed the studies preparatory io ordination, his youth being the cause of the long delay. He has held the Professorships of Greek and Philosophy in the University at different times, and is justly esteemed one of the best classical scholars among our Associated Alumni. We are glad to learn that he will resume his Professorial functions at Notre Dame this coming scholastic year.
■ On Matters and Things in General.
The Reverend Editor of our valuable paper having retreated from the scene of action in the hope of building up a shattered constitution among the breezes of his native hills and woodlands,—a hope which we trust is well founded,— we have been meanwhile requested to occupy pro. tem.— a very short tern.—the editorial chair. We have therefore proceeded to inaugurate ourselves therein with all the solemnity which the occasion demands. An air of serene and majestic dignity is beginning to pervade our c'assic form and features, a sense of responsibility is creeping slowly up our spinal marrow, and we snatch the thunderbolt of truth from the adjacent table, ready to hurl it into the ranks of anarchy and vice. Perhaps a glance at European affairs would be most appropriate to begin upon. Bismark is still an annoying topic of conversation to some of our German friends. The Carlists have also contributed their quota to the gossip-shops of the neighborhood. Garibaldi has nearly gone up the spout, and Victor Emmanuel may soon be expected* to restrain his ambition within the bounds of his own Po. Nor have home affairs been less interesting than foreign. The “ Crusade” has been thoroughly damped, by the deluge in Ohio. It is a significant fact that “Temperanceville suffered most,” and the respective merits of water and wine as destructive agents have been set at rest for some time to come at least. A little more water, however, would be acceptable in our own neighborhood.* If it were not for the patriotic exer-
* Written before the late rain.
tions of the stand-pipe there would not be a patch of green grass around South Bend. In the outskirts, the crisp herb? age crackles under the foot of the traveller, who seeks to escape from the dust of the roads in vain. But within the city, constant fountains flow, and brass nozzles at the end of serpentine tubes of caoutchouc, send forth unexpected, but acceptable streams in every direction, and great is the. refreshment thereof. The stand-pipe is now completely, finished and surmounted with a gilded weather-cock, by levelling your telescope at which at any given hour of the day- you can ascertain the direction of the wind down in South Bend. If it were not for this useful appendage the stand-pipe would be the dead image of one of the minarets attached to a Mahometan mosque, and even as it is, no one can contemplate it with any degree of dreaminess, without expecting to see a muezzin appearing at the top and informing the gaping hoosier crowd below that, “ Allah is Allah, and Mahomet is bis Prophet.” We are not by any means sure that Mahometanism would find no proselytes in South Bend. Any religion making total abstinence a leading tenet would be apt to secure numerous followers— absurdity no objection. It might, however, be dangerous to inform some of the fair “Crusaders” that they haven’t any souls. This is the real heresy which prevented the general acceptance of the Moslem creed at the beginning of the “ Crusade.” A sort of female Mahomet, who would teach that men have no souls, and instead of polygamy inculcate polyandry, which would be merely a slight extension of the Indiana divorce law, would spread her doctrines like wildfire, and make piles of money.
Having thus taken a cursory glance at the world of turmoil without, let us turn a longer and moie loving gaze on the world of tranquillity within the balls of our Alma Mater—h ills deserted awhile by their more youthful occupants of the scholastic year, to be refilled again by a similar, if not identical throng, ere the sun shall have gained the Autumnal Equinox, and meanwhile occupied by a gathering of old friends—devoted Religious from every part of the United States who, spending tne greater part of the year in their mission of charity and usefulness,. still look upon Notre Dame as their earthly home, and meet here during the summer months to enjoy the recuperating influence of companionship with congenial spirits, and to make our church resound from time to time with their Community exercises. Centrifugal force, however, is again beginning to set them in motion,and, their Retreat having been completed on the Festival of the Assumption, we behold them every day departing one by one, each to the sphere < f intellectual and religious labor assigned to him. Old friends and old faces always warm our hearts and evoke old memories of times which we fancy to have been happier than the present. Father Corby, we are glad to observe, looks better than we ever saw him before. The air of Watertown is evidently hearty and strengthening. Father Condon, from the glare and hurry of the bustling Teutonic city of Cincinnati, still looks fresh and placid as ever, and gives a cheering account of his College, which is destined to take the first rank among the educational establishments of the Queen City of the West. Father O’Connell, we are happy to hear, is to remain among us during the coming scholastic year, with the sacred seal of the Priesthood set upon his brow to give additional authority to his philosophic teachings. Would that all the changes made by the Provincial Chapter were
•THE SCHOLASTIC.
pr-
os agreeable to ourselves! But we regret to say that Father Carrier, who may be considered the Founder of the Department of Natural Sciences at Notre Dame, is to leave us for the remote but hospitable shores of Texas, there to be Superior of the infant college, which is struggling in Galveston for a place in the world’s historjc Father Brown, whose labors here as Vice President and Prefect of Studies have been so successful during the last two years, and whose whole career in the threefold character of Priest, Philosopher, and Poet has reflected so much credit on the Univcisily, as wdl as upon himself, now goes to reap new honots in Watertown, while Father Toohey takes his place; the functions which Father Toohey formeily exeicistd being assigned to Father O’Mahony; and Fathers Cooney, Condon and Golovin replacing the latter in his pastoral charge at South Bend.
As for the events which have diversified Vacation, the principal ones will be found each in its proper place, the Pilgrims’ return—the Dunbar Funeral-the ceremonies at the Porliuncula—the progress of the new church—the adventures of various persons connected with the College,— the Comet,—how a friend of ours drove around town with the hind wheel of his buggy where the fore wheel ought to be and couldn’t imagine why the old mare kept on wanting to turn to the left—all these and man} other items which have rippled over the smooth surface ot Vacation may be looked lor under appropriate Leadings anil will be there found, provided the printer doesn’t crowd them out.
Our returning friends will see little change in the materiel of the Colkge. A familiar edifice on the east has d s-solved and like the baseless fabric of a vision, left not a wrack behind, but two similar structures have started up hy spontaneous combustion to supply its place. Long may they wave.	'
Funeral of Sdward F. Bunbar.
Most of Mr. Edward Dunbar's numerous circle of friends and acquaintances have been already iniormed of the particulars of his death by drowning on the-30ih of July last. Had it not been for his benevolent exertions in behalf of one of his companions, which exhausted his strength, he might still have been spared to us, for he was known to be an excellent swimmer,a reputation which he won for himself while here at College, and sustained till the last. He was a member of the St. Cecilian Society of Notre Dame,' and we believe of several other organizations also. Although not personally known to the students residing here during vacation, a number of them accompanied Brother Ildephonsus to the M. S. and L. S. R. R. depot, to receive his mortal remains, and thereby to testify their regard for one who has left here an unblemished record of his college career. The peculiar horror of a death by drowning consists in that disfigurement of . the features which places them beyond the power of recognition even by the nearest and dearest friends. For this reason many who knew him in former days abstained from taking a farewell look at the remains, preferring to preserve the memory of him as he used to be, which will be forever enshrined in their hearts. The funeral services took place at four o’clock, and were largely attended, the body being followed to its last-resting place by the assembled throng. Edward Dunbar now lies beside his old comrade Maurice .‘Williams, in the graveyard
especially consecrated for the members of the Community of Holy Cross. The scene at the tomb was very affecting, the grief of the poor parents deprived of their only son. calling forth the sympathy of all hearts. It is not unnatural in our old students to wish to come back to die or at least to be buried amid those scenes where the happy and innocent hours of their boyhood have been spent, hoping that in the great resurrection they, will find themselves. surrounded b}7 those who accompanied them and assisted them through the most difficult passages of their mortal pilgrimage. May our friend and fellow-student rest in peace.	■	■	-
Straight to the Mark.
NOT ALL AROUND
IT.
Delightful weather.
The Minims will be taught this year by one of the ' Brothers.	-
Pkof. and Mbs. Ivers celebrated the fourth anniversary of their wedding on Tuesday evening, the 25th inst. A ‘ select party of friends were present,, and general hilarity prevailed.	■	•
Our chimes are changing their abode—not without let-* ting folks know it. Tneir new quarters' are more than twice as lofty as their old ones. Meanwhile, they set the . clock wrong by way of a change. .
Messrs. Studebakers’ large establishment was destroyed by fire on Sunday night, or rather Monday morning the 24th in t. The stand pipe stood serenely by and smiled sweetly on tbesceue ol destruction. Loss §300,009; of which the greater part is covered by insurance.
Our Baseball friends, the Red Knechts of Notre Dame and the Clippers of South Bend have played already two games for championship this summer. The first, on July 25 at South Bend, resulted in a score of 30 to 30 in 11 innings in favor of the Clippers. The second game, played on Lowell heights, on August Sth, was won by the’ Red Knechts, the score being 44 to 17. The playing of the College boys was very much admired, particularly in the latter game.	•	•
We have just been to see the angel in the new church, and we feel justified in announcing th.it ‘although only a, first draught on paper and merely the shadow of what the' fresco itself is to be, it amply bears out the high reputation which Prof. Gregori brought hither with him, and affords a pleasing anticipation of the glories of our new church as it is to be. Those who go to see this draught should be made aware that the yellow parts are all to be-gilded in the fresco, which will create a very rich and harmonious effect combined with the other tints. •
Bro. Ferdinand’s New Pet.—A foe to rats has lately made its appearance in our midst, under the auspices of Bro. Ferdinand. In a little cage in front of the printing- ’ office may be seen a sandy-haired, sharp-nosed, red-eyed member of the polecat- family, commonly known as a . ferret, named-“Tommy.” In the evening he is let out of. his cage, and.“ Pop goes the Weasel.” His labors in the . extermination of rats have been so successful, and at the same time so interesting, that his patron thinks of importing several more of the same kind. Anything, to get rid of the rats.	.	..	. : -
THE' SCHOLASTIC.

We do not in general advert to political doings, but'we. cannot refrain from congratulating our friend W. 0. Me--Michael, LL. B., of Mishawaka, foreman of this office in days gone by, on having received the unanimous nomination for joint representative of the Counties of St. Joseph and Marshall, at the Democratic Convention held at Lakeville on Monday, Aug. 24th—a nomination, we may say, due simply aud solely to the unblemished character and sterling worth of our friend and fellow-citizen. He begins liis public career under the most favorable auspices, and we have reason to hope that he will continue it in a manner both useful to his country and honorable to himself.
Our gardens are just recovering from the effects of the severe drought. Tne B fianic Garden indeed, from its well chosen position, did not suffer as much as was to be expected. We regret that, just as this valuable addition to the University has been reduced to its destined shape, its originator should have bden summoned far away to pursue other labors. We know of none who can replace Rev. Father Carrier'and we fear very much that-the Botanic Garden, as well as the other dep irtments which constituted the sphere of his activity, will suffer during his absence. The garden in front of the College has been very gay this vacation, and the gardener deserves much cred.t for his unwearying industry. If we were disposed to be critical, however, we might remark that a style of gardening which produces a pretty effect in front 6f a cottage is scarcely in keeping with buildings possessing claims to architectural grandeur. But speaking of gardens, one of the loveliest spots within the College precinct is the garden attached to the old farm-house, where the cross lately erected shows the site of the first church at Notre Dame. The house itself,.covered with the foliage and blossoms of .the trumpetvine, was once the Univer.-ity. Glimpses of. the lake, caught between the boughs of the trees which defend the shady little nook from the noon-day heat, give an additional charm to the scene. We hope that some artist skilled in landscape gardening will be appointed to arrange the grounds surrounding the house lately built for the Vcry Rev. Superior General. The position is one whose beauty or deformity will depend entirely on the art with which what nature has done for it is brought into view. . Of late years, two great obstacles to the beautifying of St. Mary’s Lake have been removed,—the slaughter-house and the limeworks,—a little labor seasoned with judgment will now make it as attractive as St. Joseph’s Lake, and even more so, as its shape and position permit much greater variety. Tree-planting should begin immediately. A few deciduous trees, such as the mountain-ash, catalp t, etc., might be advisably intermixed with the pines in front of the College. The only objection that we have heard put forward to this is that the grass could not then be cut with a mower. To which we humblysubmit that a mower cannot, even now, do the work with the requisite degree of .neatness, as was painfully apparent at the time of the last mowing. A few tame deer would obviate the necessity for mowing at all.
----------*-<a> •
■ The form of The Scholastic for the present year not having been yet agreed on, the next number may not appear before the last of September.
There is a mule in Dgnbury, Conn., who has kicked the. roof off his stable every night for the past week, in addition to knocking the squeal out of a family of pigs.
SAZ^T MABY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, August 3,1874.
In St. Mary’s report of the Commencement Exercises, the name of Miss Mary Kearney of Kansas City, Mo., was by mistake omitted in the list of graduates. This oversight was much regretted, as the young lady stands high in the esteem and loving remembrance of all at St. Mary’s, and was .ranked among the first of her classmates.
The vacation has been one of much pleasure, and of rare occasions for enjoyment to the young ladies. The Fourth of July was celebrated by a picnic on the lawn at the right of the Academy, at which quite a large party were present. Some few days later, the young ladies joined in an excursion to Niles, which all seemed to enjoy. On the 28th ult., the community and young ladies gathered on the picnic grounds, for the purpose of offering their sincere congratulations to the Ri. Rev. Bishop of Cleveland on his convalescence. Addresses were made by the Senior and Junior departments of the school, expressive of their pleasure upon his restoration to health, and refreshments were served in picnic style on the banks of the beautiful river, under the shade of the grand old trees.
On Thursday, July 30th, the most notable event of the vacation occurred. It was that of the reception of Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross, on his return from the First American Pilgrimage. All belonging to St. Mary’s gathered at the Michigan Central R. R. Station situated on the Academy grounds to await the. train on which he was expected. Arches of welcome decorated the grounds around the station. The, carriages from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, collected about the place, gave a lively and festive appearance to the scene. The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Cleveland, Very Rev. Father Granger, C. S. C., Rev. Father Lemonnier, C. S. C., and several other clergymen, were prominent among those who looked so eagerly for the approach of the train. Arrived at length, Very Rev. Father General stepped out from the cars amid expressions of joy and welcome. After a few hurried greetings he proceeded to the church at Notre Dame, followed by the members of the Community and Academy, and there, while the Te'Deum pealed forth from the organ, and- the choir chanted, all-offered up thanksgiving to God for the happy return of one so much beloved and revered. Before the assembly dispersed, Very Rev. Father General gave the Papal benediction.
On Friday, the 31st, his formal reception at St. Mary’s took place, on the beautiful lawn of the'Academy. Addresses and music, embodying the sentiments of joy in the hearts of all, were given, after which Very Rev. Father General and Brother Vincent entertained the Rt. Rev. Bishop and the happy group there assembled by relating some interesting incideuts of their Pilgrimage to Rome and Lourdes. -	•
■ Thus has the vacation been enlivened by interesting and pleasing events, leaving no time for monotonous weariness. The pupils devote three hours a day to music, reading and class exercises. Croquet and other amusements fill up their leisure time. Soon it will be their privilege to welcome their former classmates and help to cheer the newcomers.
Letters from those now enjoying the delights of home, give evidence of a living remembrance of their friends at St. Mary’s, by whom the absent ones are remembered with affectionate interest.
8
THE SCHOLASTIC
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Pbices Still Continue at
P. L, GARRITY’S
L. S. & M. SERAIL WAY
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South" Bend as follows:
2 35
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-
Pine Mixed Candy -	- ’	-
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	’
Caramels -	-	-	-	-
Molasses and Cream Candy -
10.38
12.27
15e.
25c.
35c.
35c.
25c.
9.11
7.54
3.55
Jpi’ox>ortionately Low Prices to w liolc-sale Cash Buyers.
WANTED—For Cash—Five or ten tons of Maple Sugar
3.20
4.50
GOING EAST.
a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at . Toledo, 1039; Cleveland, 2.35 p. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. at.
a. ar. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo,
5 35 p. ar.; Cleveland, 10.20	’
a m. (No. 4), special New York Express, over Air Line; ’ Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. ar.; Buffalo 4 05 a m.
p ar. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 P. ar.
p. M. (No. 10) Toledo Express. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a.m,, Cleveland TAS a m., Buffalo 1T0 p. m.
p. 3t. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
a. 3i. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. ar.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door,
apl 25 -tf
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNTGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above populsrand reliable Bouse, renovated, repaired and furnished ir with new, first class furniture. The travelling public • ay rely on finding the best accommodation.
‘.adies and Gentlemen vi-iting Notre Dame and St. Mary's will ’ here all the comforts of hou e durins their stay,
A	JERRY“KN.GHT, lPrODrietors
CAPTAIN MILLS, f "opnetors.
a. m. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40: _ Chicago, 8 00 a. m.
5.55 r. m. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 6 55; Chicago, 9.10 p. m.
r. m. (No. Il Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte
5.45; Chicago, 8 00.	‘
a. m. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55: a m . Chicago 11.10.	•
a. m. [No. 71J Local Freight.	’
Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers, upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, Geueral Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PARSONS, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snp’t.
4.51
8.00
720 Note.
m-tf
Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7,9, anu71; East, Nos.2and70. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 12.30 p. m., runuing through to Wabash. Through tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets Insurance tickets, it. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket. Asrent.

EVERY man, woman, hoy and aid who would like to engage in the business of selling I’ictiires, Oil arts, <fcc., should send their address at once. From S3 to $15 per day cau easily be made. Send for private terms and < atalogue. Address
AV. 31. BURROAV, 200 Main Street, je 13-4t.	Bristol, Tenn.
Michigan Central Railroad
Time Table.
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central Railroad leave Niles as follows:
TRAINS EASTWARD.
P£XN«YL V 1 A C ANTRAL. DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE ANO CHICAGO. Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, and New York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m i Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	•	“	5.15 p.m. “	“	6.41am.*
3rd train “	*•	9.00. p. m.	|	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jb., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, 1’hielphia.
F. R. MYEK8, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.
Night Express, Mail. -	- -
Day Express, -Accommodation, Atlantic Express Way Freight,
Evening Express, Pacific Express, Accommodation, Mail -	-	-
Day Express -
Way Freight -
TRAINS WESTWARD.
12.45 a.m
9.10 a.m
12.12 a.m
7.35 p.m
8.55 p.m.
8.00 a.m
2.35 a.m
4.40 a.m
6.25 a.m
3.57 p.m
AIR LINE DIVISION.
EASTWARD.
4.35
1.45
p m p.m
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
(JJr'RAINS leave West' Side Union Depot, Chicago, near My Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
Mail—Arrives in Niles -----Three Rivers Accommodation -	-	- -
Atlantic Express ------Way Freight -	-	-	-	- -	-
.	westward.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles	-
Mail -	--	--	--	--	-
Pacific Express -	•	------
Way Freight- ------SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
9.15
p.m
- 7.40 i>.m
9.0‘i p.m
10.30 a.m
6 <'5 a.m
3.45 p.m
5.05 a.m
- 5.05 p.m
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, HL, and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Spri ngfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
LEAVE. ARRIVE,
*9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
+9:00 p.m.
+9:45 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m, ♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 .m,
17:15 a.m,
Trains leaAe South Bend—8 15 a m. 1110 a m.3.00 pm, 6.30 p m.'
Arrive at Niles—8.42 am, 1140 am, 3,3J p m. 7.00 p m
Leave Niles—6.30 a m, 9.29 a m. 12.45 p m, 4.35 p m.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 a m, 9 65 a m, 1.20 p m. 5.10 pm.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.00 am. 7.00 p m.
“	“	Arrive at Niles—9.30 a tn, 7.30 p m.
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive—7.00 am, 9.59 a m, 1.15 p tn, 5.05 pm.
Leave—8.20 a m. 11.15 a in. 3.05 p m. 6.35 p m.
.	Sunday Trains.
Arrive—8.39 am, 5.30 p m	Leave—9/5 am. 7.05 pm.
- H. E. SARGENT, Gen’l Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.
S.R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, Agent, Notre Dame.
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, III., and Louisiana. Mo.	,	.	„
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only + Ex
cept Saturday. 1 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
§7:15 a.m
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, -	CHICAGO.
Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO.
LOUISVILLB N. ALBAN? & CHICAGO H.R.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:
GOING NOR TH.
Pass....
Freight.
Freight.
Pass....
.7.29 p.
.2.48 A.
.8.57 p.
M.
M.
9.24 a. m.
Pass ... Freight Freight. Pass....
GOING SOUTH.
..8 23 .10 47 .4.45 11.23
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
P.M