ta the interests nf the Students,
"LABOH OMNIA VINC1T.”
Volume IV.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 28, 1871.
Numbee 23.
- Columbus.
When harps, whose trembling chords have flung Notes, on which raptured millions hung, Have silent been, nor left to fame One tribute to Colombo’s name, Should I essay my lyre to wake The silence of the past to break ?
To twine my simple wreath of flowers— Plucked in the far, wild Western bowers— To bring them, as a tribute meet, To lay at Worth’s most hallowed feet! Oh ! if such happiness be mine, The honored task, the song to twine With the rich glory of a name That fills the templed vault of Fame, Oh ! e’en as there, my notes would start To wake within some feelinghcart The fire of Gratitude, to blaze And kindle with Colombo’s praise 1
Genoa, In thy pomp and power, In what consists thy fame this hour ? Is it thy spires that noon-tide’s ray Mirrors upon thy crystal bay ? Is it the banners that do wave Proudly above thy chieftains brave ? Ah 1 no, all these shall pass away, As flying clonds on summer’s day; And thou unconscious of thy fame, Deem still as naught Colombo’s name,— A name alone that will make of thee A shrine of Immortality I
Unknown, unnoticed, on the strand, Where ocean’s breast heaves to the land, Columbus stands, as Phcebus’ ray, Like a pathway gleams upon the bay; With propbet’s eye, o’er the billowy west He sees a land of hope and rest, A land of wealth, where mountains rise— Their noble brow e’en touch the skies— Where rivers roll through valleys green. And bills, majestic, rise between ; He views this land beyond the seas,
. The savage sporting 'mong its trees;	.
A land no Christian foot bad trod— A land as yet that knew no God.
But Faith has lit the stormy deep, And points where Hope her vigils keep On that far shore, where love’s desire Has kindled now its beacon fire !
“ This land, this laud, I must reclaim— The savage band must know the name Of their Creator, bow and pray At matin hour, and close of day, Before the great, Eternal throne Which holds the mighty Three in One 1” Such the thoughts of Colombo’s breast, As angel fingers in the West Unbarred the portals of the deep That the sun his golden locks might steep In that wild ocean dark and vast, O’er which no human bark had passed. Such were his thoughts, at close of day, When the belie proclaimed the Vesper Jay-But oh! brave one, deep grief shall sweep Thy soul ere thou ehalt tempt the deep; Trials shall come ere thou sbalt stand, With grateful heart, on that fair land ; Trials shall come, whose mighty stroke Shall be as the lightning to the oak 1	.
But, God sustained, thy faith shall be Support and light and strength to thee.
He seeks the quiet of the fane, And pours on high his heart-pent strain. “ Oh 1 God eternal, whose decrees
Were written ere the summer’s breeze, Or seasons, told Time’s narrow span To the wide searching ken of man, Enlighten thou my mind, and place Thy burning lamp of love and grace Within my soul, to guide me on In Wisdom’s ways! Be thon my sun, Oh 1 Virgin Mother, through the day— At night, the pole star of my way; And this high purpose of my soul Guide truly to its wished-for goal.”
Before Genoa’s senate band The vast idea he had planned He now nnfolds; bnt ’tis in vain He hopes for help to tempt the main From those who his strange project deem The wild illusion of a dream!
Then sadly from his native shore Columbus turns him, to implore The stranger’s aid; oh ! who may say That human strength sustained that day And nerved that brave heart far to roam, Imploring aid denied at home!
Portugal’s distant land was sought— Before its regal courts the thought Of thoughts was uttered; but e’en there Was hope eclipsed by dark despair
Where is Hope’s bright star now beaming! Where may he catch its gentle gleaming ! Has it gone down beyond the main ?
Oh! no. Behold o’er snnny Spain That beaming star now shines for thee O’er the fair land of chivalry I Oh! when the heart so weary grown That joy and grief awake no tone Within its cells, do we not dread To breathe aloud above the dead Hopes we have buried out of sight In the cold, dreary wintry night Of loneliness and gnawing woe, Those other hopes, as bright of glow, As beautiful and brightly fair, As those that now He faded there ?
The noblest grandees Spain had known Stood calm that day before the throne Of Ferdinand, while by his side Sat Isabelle, their hope and pride I Columbus turns to scan each face To sec w hut hopes he there might trace ; Bnt chiselled marble might betray To him more feelings far than they. Not so the Queen,—oh ! could my pen Do justice to that Queen of men! Begal she sat, as if alone For her was formed proud Castile’s throne I Begal she sat, while on her face Shone royal and majestic grace I And that fair brow, so calm, serene, Showed all the woman in the Queen,— A woman gentle, kind and true,— A Queen who could both dare and do!
He told them of a land unknown Beyond the ocean’s billowy foam,— A land of dear immortal souls O’er which benighted darkness rolls. Never as yet had prophet’s eye Traced fairer scene, or fairer sky, Than great Colombo’s mind of might
Pictured that day ’fore Castile’s sight. With scoffing and contemptuous flown, The king and courtiers heard him own ' .The power to cleave the distant wave, And those dear souls from darkness save 1 Not so the Queen—her heart was stirred By all the burning words she heard;
Yet what could she, with coffers poor, Drained in fierce contest with the Moor. She hade him hope 1 Ah! hope deferred Is worse than if no hope e’er stirred Those energies, that, like the tide Still ebb and flow from side to side -Of life’s stream, that doth seethe and roll ’Gainst great events beyond control. As firm he waited for the aid That promise gave, bnt fate delayed, We see him fighting in the train Of the choice chevaliers of Spain. Standard of Christ! he conld not see . The Moslem’s crescent gleam o’er thee! Days still drew out their weary length O’er Colombo’s soul; sweet Hope was spent, ■ Wearied and sad, lone and heart-sore, He turned to seek some friendlier shore. . On, on he jonrneyed, while the heat Of noon-day’s sun upon him beat,— , His little son, clasped by the hand, Lone stranger, in a stranger’s land! Hunger and thirst are also thine, Oh noble heart; yet hand divine Points thee now on to yonder gate, There thy yet unknown lot to wait! Tired pilgrims many, oft before Begged for bread, at that Convent door, Many a weary foot had pressed Its threshold, seeking peace and rest. Unheeded passed; but to Ais mien Of dignity and brow serene.	-
Nobility’s true stamp was given By the all-gracious hand of Heaven.
The kindly friar bade him come And rest within their convent home. The plain repast was soon prepared Which now, with thanks, the strangers shared ■ The Prior heard, with sore amaze, Of all those weary months and days Wasted before the throne, in vain Imploring aid to cross the main.
And now he saw that star divine, From Spain’s horizon, must decline. “ It shall not be—who’ll weigh the cost
If Spain this glory shall have lost I The Queen I’ll seek—the Cross unfurled Shall yet wave o’er a Western World 1 The Qncen I’ll seek, in woe or weal;	:
That glorious star of proud Castile, Columbus, on thy path shall shine, And light thee o’er the trackless brine.” ,
With rubies bright and diamonds rare, g With India’s gems, the KtUaire,	j.
With pearls from ont the foamy deep, " In which the sunlight seemed to sleep, Did Isabella light the bark Of Colnmbus o’er the waters dark.
Oh! faithful woman, may not we Attribnte every good to thee? What glorious deed without thy aid By man was ever planned or made ? E’en now thy Faith doubts doth o’erleap, And light the vistas of the deep! Oh! noblest Qneen, how proud the thought Thy gems this Western World have bought!
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
And ye bright jewels, offerings rare, Immortal are the price ye bear: ’Twas ye Colombo’s sails unfurled, And gave to Faith’s embrace a world. Hail I royal Queen, who didst lay down For Heaven the jewels of thy crown! Brighter in their celestial light Those jewels are than stars of night!
The pennons float, the sails are spread, ' The seamen’s last farewell is said;
From out the depths of each heart there Softly ascends the trusting prayer Far out upon the foamy tide, When evening’s shades like spectres glide, 0, Maris Sella, the mariner’s song, By zephyr’s breath is borne along. Oh! star of the deep, e’en then each breeze Bore thy loved name o’er wildest seas.
Long weary days and nights of dread, With sea below and stars o’er head, Fill with distrust and dire despair Hearts that were e’en the bravest there f— Gloom still is deepened now by hate, The seaman’s wrath who may abate ? Wilder its rage than waves that leap As if the fragile barks to sweep From Ocean’s brow; dark threats are heard,— Fierce mutiny the crew has stirred!— Colombo's life imperilled stands At the mercy of their savage bands.
Alone upon the billowy wave, That any hour might prove his grave, Undaunted still he stems the tide Of rage! and with prophetic pride He vowed unto that clamorous band With morrow’s sun the promised land! Eie morning’s beams, far to the right They saw the gleam of taper light!
“ Oh! God be thanked,” Columbus said, As in grateful prayer he bowed his head.
“ Oh! render praise to the Adored,” He cried, as tears his pale cheeks poured.
“ Oh! hope of years! Oh! can it be I realize thy immensity ?’
The Cross is raised I the land is given With swelling hearts and prayers to Heaven; And in that name, revered and prized, Columbia thou wast baptized!
Land of the Cross! the seamen cried— Land of the Cross! yet far and wide Thy name shall spread—thy fame shall glow Beneath the arch of Glory’s bow!
As Faith dispels thy clouds of night, (And souls, like stars, shine out in light), Oh! bright, bright land of the Western World, The Cross was the banner there unfurled, As forest rang, and coast and sea, With Land of the Holy Cross! To thee Shall nations come for all that can	'
On earth bring heaven to fallen man.
Quick as the meteor’s flash, whose light Illumes the darkened walls of night, The news has spread from shore to shore, And Spain exults ! What blessing more Could brave Colombo hope to gain From the dark bosom of the main Than that fair land to mankind given— Bright Freedom’s smiling boon from Heaven ?
Did grateful Spain in reverence bow And wreathe the laurel round his brow— Did grateful nations now entwine Around his heart affection’s vine ?
Alas! not so, a galling chain Was forged by ungrateful Spain, As meet reward for him who bore The Christian’s hope to savage shore! In chains, which Envy’s band had wrought, To Spain Columbus now is brought! Slander’s vile breath infects the air, Breathing dark venom everywhere;
The court gave ear,—its frown is cast Upon that noble soul at last. Thus, saintly hero, thou wast tried In sorrow’s fire, and purified.
Hushed are the murmurs of the crowd, Spain’s grandees, too, of lineage proud ; Hushed seemed the beatings of the heart,
As now Columbus seeks the court!	.
Majestic there that head arose, With wreath of many winters’ snows,—- ‘ Majestic, as with stately grace, Before the throne he stood apace, ' Wronged and sad ! As the gentle Queen Beheld that form of noble mien Manacled by vile, treacherous foes, His deeds sublime to memory rose, . And tears, that tell a woman’s soul, From those royal eyes now freely roll! Not all the rage of days of dread. That bad, rough men heaped on his head, Nor keen reproach, nor hate, could bow' The lofty soul that’s melting now In tears before proud Castile’s throne, Where injured worth stands crushed, alone. Years still rolled on, neglect’s chill breath Fanned that great brow till cold in death ; When the star that lighted Spain for years— Quenched in the flood of a nation’s tears— Could shine no more to lead him on ; And now in age, poor, friendless, lone, By the world forgot, by friends denied, In a way-side inn, Columbus—died.
Ingratitude—the curse of slaves 1 Thy finger points to untold graves; Yet, oh I great man, thy name shall blaze While Freedom has the power to praise ! What chieftain else could Fame parade, Made sacrifice as thou hast made— Of home’s fond ties so long bereft, Beatrice, faithful wife, too, left,— AU that endearing home possessed To seek a world in the unknown West; The poor lone exile, too, has blest The name that gave him home and rest; The poor, whose wants are few but dear, Thy name forever shall revere;
And by the Shannon and the Lee, Twined in the sweet, wild minstrelsy That Erin loves in pride to wreathe Around the brave, thy name she’ll breathe And fondly praise, for thou hast given, When tempest tossed, her sons a haven. Yes, by the Seine thy praise is sung, And by the Clyde the Gaelic tongue Takes up the strains that bear along Thy name with freedom in its song. The Rhone and Rhine, whose castled pride Gleams in rare beauty on the tide, Exult with praise of thee who bore Joyous tidings to many a shore. -The red man, as he tracks the deer O’er mountain cliffs, by waters clear, Hears in the clouds, the waves that roll, A voice now speaking to his soul ■ Of hope beyond what eyes may see, Hope of that Heaven revealed by thee!
Then, oh Columbus, ’throned above, In realms of bliss, look down with love On the infant world thy genius nursed; And pray no chain of lawless thirst For anarchy may ever bind Its freedom,—may no tyrant find A foot-hold on the hallowed sod Thy tears and prayers bequeathed to God I ■	N. Mobiahtt.
A Beautiful Scene.
At the interesting exhibition given by the young ladies of St. Mary’s Academy, we noticed one circumstance not only beautiful in itself, but indicative of a spirit which we rejoice to see in that excellentinstitution. Hitherto it had been customary for some dignitary to place the Crown of Honor upon the brow of those young ladies who had merited that distinction; this year, however, we noticed with pleasure that this ceremony was performed by a graduate of last year, Miss Eleanor Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio; and the first young lady crowned, was Miss Eleanor’s intimate and worthy friend, Miss Hattie Kiel of St. Louis. It was a beautiful sight, and without claiming to be a poet, we must say that it was poetic, and made us fancy we saw the personification of virtuous beauty
crowning her twin-sister. We know that all pupils of St. Mary’s are held in affectionate remembrance, and we are glad to see the directors of that institution manifest this affection in ways similar to the one we have mentioned.
Coxamsncemsnt Exercises.
Tuesday Evening.
The solemn religious rites with which the Commencement exercises were opened had come to an end; the Alumni had met at their social banquet, and afterwards for the transaction of business; the regatta on Lake St. Joseph had terminated pleasantly; and still the stream of enjoyment flowed steadily on. After-a hearty supper, for which all were prep ired by previous exercise, officers professors. students and a large attendance of welcome visitors, repaired to Washington Hall, to witness the musical, literary, and dramatic efforts of the students of Notre Dame.
When the audience had taken their seats and all was quiet, the Band struck up a lively march, which t hey executed with taste and vigor, and thus the exercises of the evening were opened. The Orchestra followed with a grand overture, throughout which each instrument seemed to have caught the enthusiastic spirit of the artist who held it, while the contrast between the soft sweet harmony which flowed in delicious waves from violins, flutes, violoncellos, and double bass, and the hardy stirring tones of the brazen-mouthed horns, threw a spell of enchantment over every soul from which it awoke only when the music had ceased.
The curtain now arose, and Master J. McHugh, an intelligent Junior, came forward and delivered a short and elegant speech in Greek. This was followed by a Latin address, delivered by Mr. J. Zahm, a graduate. We were very glad to see that the authorities at Notre Dame have finally recognized the fact that long speeches in a dead language arc extremely tedious in spite of the custom which, it would appear, demands them. A short speech, of five or ten minutes, in a language not familiar, may indeed be interesting to an audience on account of its novelty, and is quite as good as an hour’s speaking to display the ability of the speaker. This idea was carried out on the occasion of which we write, to the great satisfaction of all. Both these speeches were well written, and delivered with an easy grace and correctness of pronunciation highly creditable to the young speakers.
The sounds from Athens and Borne were now followed by the familiar sounds of our own tongue, in an address from the Scientific Department, delivered with a forcible, easy eloquence by Mr. J. Gearin, a graduate in Science. The address from the Commercial Department, by Mr. C. Wheeler, was not quite so happy. This however was due to the fact that Mr. Wheeler had been quite ill for some days previous, which rendered it impossible for him to give due attention to the preparation of his address. We regret this; for Mr. Wheeler certainly has the ability to produce a speech of which any student might be justly proud.
The address from the Junior Department, by Master C. Dodge, was appropriate and elegant in matter, and delivered in a pleasing and eloquent style. Master Dodge promises well to become a very fine speaker.
This closed the speeches for the evening, and again the Band and Orchestra enlivened, the time by excellent music, thus ushering in the grand treat of the evening, the drama of Henry the Fourth. The cast ’of characters was given in No. 21 of the Scholastic, and need not be repeated here. The play was considerably shortened, lest it might prove tedious to the audience if presented entire; yet under the pencil of Prof. Corby, under whose management the dramatic portion of the en
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	•
tertainment was prepared, the plot of the play suffered no damage whatever, and we had all the beauties without the less interesting details.
We deem it due to the Professor, and to the young gentlemen who took part in this play, to remark here that owing to circumstances, which were peculiar this year, the preparation of this play did not begin till within twelve days of the evening on which it was brought out, and the students even then remitted none of their attention to their other duties. Notwithstanding this serious disadvantage, however, we must say, and we feel not a little proud in saying it, that the play was admirably rendered—only a very few indications appearing of the insufficiency of the preparation. A few remarks on the leading characters will give a sufficient insight into the merits of the whole performance.
King Henry IV was in general rendered in excellent style by Mr. G. Darr. However, this young gentleman being of an earnest, ardent temperament, and not having had time sufficient to acquire, by proper drill, the requisite control of voice and action, threw himself almost too heartily into the spirit of liis role, and on one or two occasions during the evening exposed himself to the charge of overdoing his part. This natural ardor, which ■proved, to some extent, a disadvantage on the occasion, is nevertheless a trait in Mr. Darr’s character which we should be very sorry to see removed; for with his natural good judgment and firmness of purpose he will in due time bring it under perfect con-, trol, and render it, as it ought to be, a powerful element of future success in any sphere of life. But while we criticise what to us appeared faulty in Mr. Darr’s acting, it is only justice to say that in other respects he won both approval and applause ; while a beautiful bouquet, composed of roses sprinkled largely with geranium leaves, amongst which a triple white lily nestled with confidence, and this coming from the fair hand ofone who knows how to appreciate a noble spirit and good playing, proved conclusively that the young gentleman who was so happy as to receive it was far from being a fiiilure.
Prince Hal was admirably rendered throughout by Mr. W. C. Still wagen. Blessed with an excellent voice, over which he exercises perfect control, Mr. Stillwagen at once enlists the sympathy of his audience, who on this occasion awarded him the palm of excellence in elocution and appreciation of the character which he presented, while his manner on this occasion gave a fair idea of royal dignity joined with the reckless gaiety of a dissipated youth.
Sir John Falstaff found a capital representative in Mr. J. A. Fox, who, being padded to an alarming extent, presented a bold front to the audience, and sustained bis reputation by the sly humor with which he rendered his part. His voice, however, is by nature rather too smooth and high-pitched to appear in keeping with the size of his extempore body.	.
Hotspur himself would have applauded the manner in which Mr. M. J. Moriarty represented him on the evening of the 20tb, notwithstanding a slight disposition to overdo. Mr. Moriarty is a natural tragedian, entering readily into the spirit of any part assigned him; and although he does not propose to become an actor,—a resolution which we highly approve,—still he is always ready to take part in a college exhibition for the entertainment of compa dons and friends. His acting on the present occasion was admired by everyone in the Hall.
The other characters of the play were well sustained ,by the younu gentlemen named in the programme, already published, but among them Mr. Keenan, in tlie character of Poins, deserves special commendation.
The entertainment lasted nearly three hours, yet
so interesting was it throughout that no one manifested the slightest weariness, but all seemed rather disposed to remain longer. This we deem the highest commendation possible, for it was the testimony of the entire audience.
Thanking all, but especially Prof. Corby and the Thespians, who by extraordinary efforts brought out a difficult play in excellent style in spite of the short time at their disposal, we will only add that we hope to witness many such exhibitions in the future.	M. B. B.
"We take from the Tribune the report of the proceedings on
WEDNESDAY.
The exercises commenced soon after breakfast this morning with excellent music, followed by an address from the Minim Department, by Eddie DeGroot, who always gets off something to bring out an encore and a good hearty laugh. J. O’Rielly, who had graduated last year in the regular course, gave an address from the Law department, which was an excellent, dignified exposition of the duties of the attorney, and of the operation of the administration of law and equity, coupled with comprehensive illustrations. '
“ BE WAKE OF ROGUES!”
Then followed a comedy, translated and arranged for the occasion from a corrected edition of Moliere’s comedies, with the following cast of characters:
Signor Argante, (Father of Octavius)...C. Dodge Siguor Geronte, (Father of Leander)....S. Ashton
Seapin, (the Valet ot Leander).....Charles Berdel
Octavius,...............................R.	Staley
Sylvester, (the Valet of Octavius).V. Hackmann Arnoph, (the Valet of Geronte).....T.	Foley
Carl, (a Friend of Scapin)..............L.	Hayes
Leander,.............................C.	Hutchings
LaFleche,............................J.	McHugh
Porters, Attendants, Terpsichoreans, &c.
Epilogue,...............................C.	Berdel
In this play the principal character is that of Scapin, and, while a difficult character to personate, it was rendered in a masterly manner by Chas. Berdel, of Chicago.
A GRAND CANTATA,
“ The Picnic,” given by the vocal classes of the University, under the direction of Professor M.T. Corby, A. M., was pronounced by able critics to have been very correct, and ably rendered.
THE VALEDICTORY, by R. H. McCarthy, was another excellent production, bidding an affectionate good-bye to all, anticipating struggles and toils in the future, taking comfort in looking back proudly to their Alma Mater, and, weighing the instructions there re-ccivcd, with thanks and good wishes to all, he pronounced the solemn farewell.
THE ORATION OP THE ALUMNI, was given by O. T. Chamberlain, one of its members, who is now a successful attorney. He rendered homage to the University, stating that experience had proved the value of the lessons taught him while a student here; that Notre Dame ever watched over the members of its Alumni, whether in the field of battle, or in the business relations of life. He who is not a Catholic, could not resist the offering of his testimony as to the treatmeut, fair spirit, and liberality exercised toward and following that course. It must and does command the respect of alL
REMARKS OF HON. A. C. DODGE.
The President introduced as the orator of the day, Hon. A. C. Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa, who had formerly been' minister to Spain, and senator of the United States. The gentleman said:
Ret. Fathers, Professors and Students:
Yesterday your worthy President was pleased to intimate a wish that I should say something on tills occasion, and it affords me pleasure to address you a few words of encouragement
A frequent visitor to Notre Dame, and having witnessed the examination of some of you, at your admission into this University, you will allow
me to offer you my heartfelt congratulations upon the gratifying progress yoii have made during your last scholastic year, the evidences of which were exhibited at the exercises of last evening and this morning.
I am glad to know that you are soon to receive suitable premiums for hard studies and. merito* rious conduct on your part. These premiums, in what shape soever presented, should be highly prized by you because of the source whence they emanate. I am also glad to learn that some of the testimonials to be awarded are of unusual valued The three gold medals are gifts, I learn, from three friends of this Institution, Mr. Quan, Mr. Tuberty, and Mr. Doyle. Ail honor, I say, to these generous friends of this growing University I How noble the purpose to which they have dedicated a small portion of their wealth—that of exciting the commendable feeling of emulation among fellow-students.	.
I regard the cause of education as the cause of my country, for the youth who are now at their studies will soon constitute that countiy. On you, therefore, young gentlemen, in part, in a few yean will devolve the responsibility of sustaining the political Institutions, the liberty and happiness of the United States. I esteem the learned gentlemen who are directing the studies and forming the charcter of our youth as engaged in the noblest employment that can task the powers of man. I hold it to be the duty of eveiy American citizen, who can aid them in this work, to furnish that aid; and if not in a more substantial form, at least by those demonstrations of respect which are calculated to cheer them and their pupils onward in their arduous and honorable task. This tribute should be promptly and willingly rendered by all Such, my young friends, are the sentiments which have led me here; such the feelings which animate me. But I must necessarily be brief
With good opportunities, of which I have availed myself, for visiting Colleges and Universities both in our own and foreign countries, I have not seen an Institution of learning more advantageously situated than Notre Dawe. The sight is elevated, healthful, and beautiful. The play-grounds and the walks are capacious, and well suited to the wants of pupils. The buildings are of ample dimensions, and well arranged for the accommodation of students, while cleanliness and good order —the latter, heaven’s first laws—seem to pervade every department of this vast establishment.
The Professors and Teachers, in my humble judgment, are fully equal to the demands of the enlightened and progressive age in which we live. They need no encomiums from me. Actions and results speak trumpet-tongued in their favor, aad have won for them the prestige of success. Where else on God’s habitable globe can be found an Institution of learning of such magnitude upon a spot so recently the abode of savage men? The history of Notre Dame, from its foundation, has been characterized by the finest administrative talent (that rarest of all talents), by union, harmony, concession and self-denial upon the part of its conductors, such as must insure triumph to the cause in which these efforts have been put forth. ’
But, my young friends, the best seminary ct learning that may open its doors to you can do no more than afford you the opportunity of instruction. It must at last depend upon yourselves, whether you will learn or not. Of this be assured : There is no excellence without great labor; this is the fiat of fate, from which no power of genius ea» absolte you.
Do not, when yon return to mix with the busy world, forget the lessons of order and morality which you have learned here from the urbane and pious gentlemen to whose charge you have been committed. Remember that a man’s manners frequently make his fortune. Aim high, and deter-
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
bons. The upper piece is an elegant chased bar, with pin, upon which is inscribed, in enamel, the recipient’s name; underneath comes a gold laurel wreath, mounted by a silver scroll, inscribed, in enamel, “Awarded for Vocal Music, June 21,1871,” with a bar of music underneath; and, under all, comes a large gold enameled Maltese cross, having a scroll of music over it, surmounted by a gold lyre. The value is $100.
Grand gold prizes valued at $50 each by votes of students, for superior good conduct, and donated by Messrs. Quan of Chicago, Tuberty of L-ifayette, and Doyle of Chicago were awarded to Thos. J. Foley, Nashville, Tenn., Daniel Egan, Chicago, Scott Ashton Levenworth, Kan.
Also another, donated by Jacob Wile, of La-port Ind., was awarded to P. Scott, Somerset. Ohio.
An extra gold medal was awarded to Robert Staley, C. Ortmeyer, and J. Rumley for services in choir.
COMPETITION PRIZES.
Preparatory Department.—Gold medal awarded to Chas. Dodge; first silver medal awarded to C. Ortmayer; second silver medal awarded to Louis Hibbard.
Scientific Department—Gold medal awarded to F. B. Shephard; first silver medal awarded to James Wilson; second silver medal awarded to J. D. McCormick.
Commercial Department.—Gold medal awarded to Thomas Foley; first silver medal awarded to Thos. Dundon; second silver medal awarded to W. Crenshaw.
Classical Department.—Gold medal awarded to John McHugh; first silver medal awarded to D. Egan; second silver medal awarded to M. Keeley.
The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association prize gold medals for good conduct, and for marked improvement in elocution and English literature during the academic year 1871, as General Honors, were awarded to 10 First Honors, 15 Second Honors, 18 Field Sports. Junior Department, Gold Medals to 27; Silver Medals to 8. Minim’s Department, mention in catalogue to 9; First Honors, Jrs., to 33; First Honors, Sen., to 10; First Honors, Min., to 2.
The medals awarded were very elegant and costly. A number of students were recipients of several medals for faithful and diligent work. It is an easy matter to determine who are favorites among their fellows by the applause they receive when the name is announced, and the favoritism is measured by the extent of applause; and in nearly every instance the measure of merit, meeted out by the faculty, in their awards tallied closely to the estimate put upon them by their fellows.
mine by industry, perseverance, and by good conduct, to attain the position in society to which you aspire:
“ Honor and shame from no condition rise;
Act well your part, there all the honor lies.”
. We thank heaven that there are no privileged classes in our country, “booted and spurred to ride the people legitimately by the grace of God.” All the offices, honors, and emoluments of the government are open to you. Who knows the number of Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Chief Justices, Senators, Governors, and Congressmen which Notre Dame shall furnish to our Republic? I hope, many.
With this exhortation I take my leave of you: “ To thine own self be true;
And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou const not then be false to any man.”
THE DINNER.
After the exercises the guests repaired to the Dining Room, capable of holding 250, or 300 persons. It was crowded with good-humored, well-pleased persons, who came, ate, and departed, and their places were taken by others who did likewise.
, the compositions and essays of the year are copied upon cap paper, and gathered together are bound in leather and placed in the grand parlor for inspection of visitors. Miss Smythe being present in the parlor sang one of her best ballads, gratifying very much her many admirers who were present.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The degree of Master of Arts was conferred on J, A. O’Rielly, Reading, Pa.
V The degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on John Zahm, Huntingdon, Ind., and Rufus H. McCarthy, Mottville, Ind.
The degree of Bachelor of Laws (LL. B.) was conferred on J. A. O’Reilly, Reading, Pa.; A. J. Reilly, Fort Dodge, la.; L. G. Tong, South Bend, Ind.
The degree of Master of Science was conferred on James McBride, Toledo, O.
The degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on John M. Gearin, Champoeg, Oregon.
- The medical certificates Were given to John J. Mulquinn, Newark, N. J.; Colonel M. Johnson, Harvard, Ill.; John A. Culver, Seymour, Ind.; Eugene Bucher, Cedarville, Hl.
The degree of Master of Accounts was conferred on Judson A. Fox, Aurora, Ill.; C. Wheeler, Mechanicsville, la.; George Darr, Cincinnati, O.; Willis G. Smith, St. Paul, Minn.; Laurence M. Rupert, Pekin, Ill.; Michael Carney, Toledo, O.; Walter Crenshaw, Springfield, Mo.; Vincent H. Hackmann, St. Louis, Mo.; Philip Scott, Somerset, O.; Francis Arrantz, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Joseph Heinz, Little Rock, Ark.; Scott Ashton, Leavenworth, Kan.; James McGuire, Chicago, III.; Henry W. Ackhoff, Chicago, DI.; Charles Morgan, Marco, Ind.; Thomas Foley, Nashville, Tenn.; William Dum, Amanda, 0.; Peter Coakley, Clarksburg, Mich-.; Robert Finley, Omaha, Neb.; Patrick O’Connell, Summit, Ill.; Thomas Dundon, Clarksburg, Mich.; Edgar Watts, Canyon City, Oregon; Charles. Swenck, Chicago, Ill.; Thomas H-Grier, Geneva, Wis.; David J. Brown, Rockford, HL; Francis B. Shephard, Jerseyville, HI.; Maurice Moriarty, Ottumwa, la.; Joseph Antoine, Somonauk, Ill.; Omer H. Zell, New Boston, Ill.; Martin J. Spellicy, Conneautville. Pa. ‘
PRIZES.
There were also awarded several hundred volumes of choice books for various degrees of proficiency in studies. The first grand prize, a gorgeous affair, was awarded to Vincent Hackman, of .St. Louis, for marked proficiency in vocal music.
The following description may be interesting: -It is in three pieces, attached by purple scarlet rib-
St. Mary’s Female Academy.
WEDNESDAY.
St. Mary’s, June 21.—The exercises opened here at 4 o.’clock, this afternoon, with essays and mu-ic by the graduates. Miss A. Rhinehart read of the “Human Eye,” giving indications of character by color, etc. One on the “Art of Printing,” by Miss A. Radin, was an elegant tribute to the press, which perpetuates fame, history, and story, linking the past with the present. The “ Harp,” by Miss A. Locke; the “Rainbow,” by Miss K. Young; “Past and Future,” by Miss B. O’Neil; “Heroes.” by Miss A Sturgis, were short, pointed, and excellent in their clear rendering. A criticism on “ Hiawatha,” by Miss C. Foote, penetrated mainly the untruthful characters therein, as the Ghost in sunlight, and many others of like character; as well as the faulty grammar, reciting many passages in proof of her position. “ Hidden Powers,” by Miss N. Millard, was considered by many as being among the best essays of the class, and was delivered in excellent taste. The music, from Thalberg, Beethoven Alvars, Strakosh, Kalbrenner, and
Hummel, upon harp and piano, by the Misses Foote, Hynds, Shirland, Locke; Young, and Kirwin, and each piece called forth spirited encores, and then the exercises closed for the day.
THURSDAY
June 22.—Ten o’clock this morning was the time set for the closing exercises, but long before that hour the visitors gathered about the entrance of .the hall in such numbers that their united pressure forcibly opened the doors, thus creating some confusion in the matter of providing for the invited guests; but when arranged, the programme was carried out in form of the grand entrance “ March Triumphale,”—Gloria, upon four pianos and three harps, executed by eleven interesting and beautiful youhg la lies, in splendid time.
During this time the students from each side of the stage entered by twos, made their courtesies to the audience, and took their seats. When this was o\er, a'chorus (Rossini) of thirty voices was charmingly given. This was followed by the distribution of pr. miums, in the junior and preparatoy department, consisting of costly books; after which came an excellent performance on the harp, “ Don Sebastian,” by Miss Mattie Shirland, who excels at that instrument. A long and well-written poem, . entitled “ Columbus,” by Miss N. Moriarty, poetizing the historic trials, struggles, discoveries and honors of the famous discoverer.
An essay on “ Battle Fields,” by Miss H. Niel, was an appeal that war might never be more. Miss B. R-indell gave a cavatina from “ Somam-bula,” and promises well for the future. Miss Foote sang in a most pleasing manner.
The premiums in the senior department were then distributed, after which Miss Jenny Hynds sang the “ Merry Swiss Boy,” with variations, in a manner that elicited the hearty applause of all.
A Warning by the juniors, being a criticism of the seniors, by pattern examples, was the laughable part of the entertainment.
A vocal duet, “ Greeting,” from Mendelssohn, by Misses Hynds and McMahon, was finely rendered.
A play, “Isabella of Castile,” in three acts, was well sustained by all the characters.
Tableau—Isabella surrounded by Faith, Hope, and Charity, crowned by the Angel of the New World, was in good taste and much admired.
MEDALS AWARDED
The graduating crowns and grand gold medals were conferred on Miss H. Niel, St. Louis, Mo.; Miss A. Sturgis, Sturgis, Mich.; Miss N. Moriarty, Topeka, Kansas; Miss N. Millard Buchanan, Mich.; Miss A. Rhinehart, Oscaloosa, Iowa; Miss B. O’Neilj Peoria, Ill.; Miss A. Locke, St. Louis, Mo.; Miss A. Radin, Chicago,Ill.; Miss K. Young, Chicago, Ill.; Miss C. Foote, Burlington Iowa.
The graduating crown and first premium in the Conservatory of Music was awarded to Mrs. J. Hynds, Morris, HI.
The Senior Department crowns of honor for polite, amiable, and correct department, were awarded to Miss M. Kirwan, Ottawa, III.; Miss M. Sherland, South Bend, Ind.; Miss M. Kellogg, Waukegan, HL; Miss H. Tinsley, Chicago, HL; and Miss M. Tuberty, Lafayette, Ind.
First honors were awarded to thirty young ladies. .
Second honors were awarded to eleven young ladies.
Third honors were awarded to twelve young ladies.
Sixteen young Indies were honorably mentioned for polite, amiable, and correct department, but, in consequence of not having been at St. Mary’s the first season, they do not receive the honors.
Junior Departmeut.—Crowns of honor /were awarded to Miss M. Quan, Chicago, Ill.; Miss M.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Kreutzer, Peru, Ind.; and Miss L. Woods, Jefferson, Texas.
First honors were awarded to eight juniors. Second honors were awarded to eight juniors. Third honors were awarded to three juniors.
Minim. Department.—First honors awarded to Miss M. Reynolds, Miss K. Loyd, Waukeegan, Mich.
Eight little minims were honorably mentioned.
THS VALEDICTORY,
By Miss Moriarty, bidding an affectionate farewell, was well received.
TUB ORATION OF THE DAY.
Hon A C. D >.lge, of Iowa, was introduced and, congratulated the sisters and graduates for the richest of intellectual repasts which he had ever witnessed. He said the sisters left their comfortable homes to serve in the war, and for one he tendered them the thanks of an American citizen. Order reigned here to the extent that nothing had taken place to mar the complete harmony of the occasion. He had never failed to attend academic exhibitions, but he had never attended the equal of this. He was glad to see so many representatives from so many States of the Union—from the North, South, Eist and West He had been a minister to foreign courts, where fashion and manners reign; he had been to St. James*, St. Cloud, and Madrid, yet he had never seen manners and courtesy so graceful as here. The enterprise exhibited here was truly wonderful, and this was a reminder to him that no great enterprise ever succeeded without the aid of woman. They are equally important characters in civilization and progress. He gave good advice to the graduates who are now to go forth in contact with the world.
COLLATION.
The retiring march, performed on pianos and harps by twenty-two hands, dispersed the audience, many of whom gathered in the large refectory, where a choice collation was spread.
DOMESTIC ECONOMY.
The graduates were not noticed for their skill in domestic economy, for the reason that too much building improvement was being, added to the Academy to give full scope to that branch, and for this season it has been neglected, but in the future it will be made a prominent branch in teaching womanly accomplishments.	.
THE FINE ARTS.
One of the spacious parlors was adorned with the drawings from natural models, paintings in oil and water colors, worsted and silk work, by the students, and among them were to be found superior gems of art.	?
-	GOOD TIMB.
The Lake Shore and Southern Railway furnished a special train from South Bend to Chicago, which made a remarkable run of eighty miles in two hours and forty-five minutes, losing twenty-eight minutes of that time in delay. The train was under direction of Conductor Greenfield.—Chicago Tribune.
Vocal Music.
In the Vocal Music Class the following notes were deserved by the best singers: V. Hackmann, R. Staley, G. Riopelle, C. Hutchings, A. Filson, each 100. V. Von Ceaulebrocck, 95. W. Roberts, J. O'Hara, C. Duffy, D. Ludington, R. Hutchings, 90.
It was indeed a surprise to us, and a pleasant one too, to see our old Kokomo friend, Aaron Lindsay here on the 22nd. When we last saw Aaron some eight-or ten years ago he was about our size, but now he is head and shoulders above us. May his fortunes increase likewise.
^□tre ^ame Scholastic.
PUBLISHED AT
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
TERMS:	'
One year...................................  tl	00
Copies of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
We met with many of our friends at the exercises at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, among whom were Attorney-General Morris, of Mississippi ; Hon. P. B. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio; Senator A C. Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa; Hon. J. J. McKinnon, of Chicago, Ill; Hon. Judge Randall, of Joliet, Ill.; Dr. Brennan, of Chicago, RI.; Rev. J. M. J. Graham, Gin., Ohio ; Very Rev. M. Kundig, V. G., of Milwaukee, Wis.; Rev. J. Noonan, of Chicago, Hl.; Rev. Hickey; Rev. J. B. Baasen of Mobile, Ala.; Rev. F. Campbell of Lacon, III.; Rev. J. Dinnen of Lafayette, Ind. ; Rev. A B. Oechtering of Mishawaka, Ind.; Rev. C. Vil-landre, S. S. C., of New Orleans; Rev. F. Toohey, S. S. C., New Orleans ; Rev. P. H. Brown of Ravenna, Ohio; Rev. W. Emmonds, of Iowa City, Iowa; Hon. T. Castaing, of New Orleans; Messrs. Kelly of St. Paul; Tuberty of Lafayette; Quan of Chicago; Foote of Burlington; Graham of Chi-cigo; Broder of Beloit; Lange of Muskegon; Wiedeman, Toledo; Nelson of Chicago; Cochrane of Chicago; Shea of Milwaukee; O’Neil of Peoria; Kelly of Minneapolis; Garrity of Chicago; Daly of Chicago; Gillespie of Chicago; Healy of Elgin; Chamberlain of Elkhart—the Alumni Orator of the Day; McBride, Attorney at Law, of Toledo; McIntosh of Oshkosh; Marks of Chicago; Dillon of Chicago; Linsday of Kokomo; McFarland of Tiffin; Walker of St. Paul; T. Ewing of Lancaster; Brelsford of Chicago; Spillard of Elgin; Litzenberger of South Bend; Stillwagen of Claysville, Pa.; Dan. O’Hara, Dr. Dunne of Chicago; Mayor Humphreys of South Bend; Dr. Treanor, South Bend.
Mrs, Phelan of Lancaster; Mrs. Dodge of Burlington; Mrs. Shanks of Milwaukee; Mrs. and Miss Libbie Colvin of Chicago; Mrs. Borup of St. Paul ; Mrs. Forbes of St. Paul; Mrs. Locke of St. Louis; Mrs. Fletcher of St. Louis; Miss R Tong of Columbus; Mrs. N. Powers; Miss L. Powers; Miss Mahon of Chicago; Miss Edwards of Toledo; Miss M. Dillon of Chicago; Mrs. Lan-genderffer of Toledo, Ohio; Misses Agnes and Eleanor Ewing of Lancaster; Miss F. McDonald of Crown Point, Indiana; Mrs. Lange and daughters of Muskegon; Misses E. A. and M. G. Spillard; Miss E. McOsker, of Elgin, Hl.
Besides these, many others to whom we had not time to say even “ Good day,” but with most of whom we said “Good-bye”—meaning by the selfsame words ”Au retail-."	■
Gooi Order on the 21st
Excellent order was preserved, and owing to the quiet execution of the plan resolved upon after the inconvenient crowding of small boys and other uninvited persons had rendered the former exhibition on the 31st of May so disagreeable, all onr friends were comfortably seated without being too closely crowded. We cannot refrain from expressing a wish that the same doorkeepers may retain permanent possession of their offices, and always be at their door-posts on occasions of the kind. We congratulate them and the College on the good result of their quiet, gentlemanly management: and return them thanks for their polite attention to us and our friends—that is, to all who were present at the Commencement Exercises.
Ths Evaninj of Exhibition Day.
In the morning all was bustle, and ere we had time to shake hands and give hearty welcome to one party of friends, other welcome faces wreathed in smiles pressed round us, to be replaced by others. And still they came; and we felt as if “ it were old times again.”	■
In the evening the recreation grounds are silent, the study Halls deserted, and the Old College looks lonesome in the absence of those merry faces and cheerful voices that were wont to enliven i-S halls and grounds, and who have hurried away immediately after the dinner.
But still it is not a lonesome time for those who are left behind. Many of those are “ very glad all is over," for a great responsibility is removed from their shoulders; and a load of anxiety is taken from their mind. Officers of the College, Professors, Prefects and Students were all more or less on the rack; had their fears whether all would go on well; whether this one would succeed, in his important part, or that one distinguish himself to the pride and gratification of his many friends, or fail, to his own and their disappointment And the students ?—though hope is sweet yet the doubt, that accompanies it in the case of “that premium” or “that medal," is a wear and a tear which no student is sorry to get rid of even though all should not turn out as he had hoped, and he find that his doubts were well founded.
Besides these there were others in the College, who had remained to have a quiet time after the bustle of the day, before terminating their visit to the College, where they had met old friends with, whom they could not have sufficient talk when the great crowd thronged the College.
During the long summer afternoon, after the sun had tempered his midday rays, and the front of the College was in the shade, the groups of talkers, sitting on the steps or wandering through the garden, or lying at ease on the grass near the summer-house, or lounging near the front door— that favorite resort of those who like to talk politics and science—were by no means downhearted. They were not very noisy—except those who, patriotically inclined, down near the summerhouse, were powerfully, if not melodiously, singing the “ Star-Spangled Banner;" yet they were all gay» and in the best kind of humor. , The pleasant jokes and the little incidents of the day were narrated and enjoyed, and they brought on others, and reminiscences of last year, and of many other years; and if some enjoyed the fragrant weed as the smoke arose gracefully through the evening air, the veriest detester of smoking could not have found fault with them. .
Long after the usual hour of retiring, the groups remained; and the hearty laughs answering each other from parlor to front door, from steps to garden, while the musically disposed continued their songs near the summer house, or rattled off “.fantasias,” symphonies and what not, on .the grand piano in the parlor. Gradually they all began to gather together on the broad stone steps; “good nights” were said and repeated, and ere long the worth}’ warder had the satisfaction of shutting and locking the front door, and everyone else hart the pleasure of a good night’s rest.
We suggest that all the old members of the. St Aloysius Literary Society have an informal* meeting and a jolly, good time on the Commencement day next year. Will not softie of the present members take steps to see that a reunion will then take place ? Why should not also the Thespians, -the St. Cecilians, the St Eds, etc., have grand gatherings at the close of the year?
We feel certain that if the Arch-Confraternity would have its reunion next June, there would be hosts of old students here. '
e
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
We were pleased to see the cheerful countenance of 0. T. Chamberlain on the 21st. It made Notre Dame look as in the days of old. We no sooner canght sight of his face, than onr memory called to mind the Sdlanum Tuberosum of the past. O. T. C. was a regular contributor to the Progress, our predecessor, and he did unfold a tale in that spicy little sheet, concerning the “Turkey gobler,” that causes the smile to spread over our face at the bare remembrance of it. The only faults we have to find with him are, 1st, that living as near ns as be does, we do not see him oftener, and 2ndly, that he did not bring Jno. H. Schutt of his town, with him.
Oub friend Joseph Healy, of Elgin, was on hand just in time to be too late for the Alumni dinner. We remember when “Joe” took the character of the Judge in a play brought out by the St Cecilians, either in the year 1859 or 1860, we forget which. He did the character justice, and, as they say, fairly brought down the house. From what we can learn, he is now doing a fine business in the practice of the law. Who can say but that in a few years hence he may take his seat upon the Bench. and be a Judge in reality?
It is now twelve years ago since J. C. Mackintosh, of Oshkosh left Notre Dame. He was with us on the 21st with his eldest boy. “Mack.” saw but few “old familiar faces,” but those few were lit up with joyful smiles when they beheld him with us again. We wish him success in the practice of law to which he has devoted himself and we know that he will attain success for he has both talent and pluck.
Tnr-. many friends of Prof. Paul Broder were pleased to see him here on exhibition-day. He came ont of his way to pay his Alma Mater a visit on her feast day. His speech at the Alumni Dinner was one of those pleasing little effusions which captivate everywhere. All who know the Professor know also that he is capital at an after-dinner speech, and at this dinner he was more than usually happy in bis remarks.
' We barely bad time to grasp Cassius M. Brels-ford’s hand and say a few words to him on exhibition day. We remember the day when “Cash” was a leading man in the St. Cecilians—along with Healy, Labarthe and others. We were going to say “success to you‘Cash,’” but you need it not. We are glad to know that he, like most of the “old boys,” is doing well.
Among the many faces we met on the 21st one ever welcome was that of Mr. J. Spillard an old student of the college, and the worthy brother of the worthy pastor of St Patrick’s Church, South Bend. He looked hale and hearty and seemed to enjoy his visit as much almost as his many friends enjoyed his presence amongst us.
E. B. Jamieson, of Peru, Ind., whose note for music was omitted in the report of the examination, received 2% for progress and proficiency.
■Pbof. Regnier a distinguished graduate of the conservatory of Ghent, Belgium, has been engaged to teach in the music department of Notre Dame for three years. He has just arrived.
A. Filson sang better than ever the morning of the 21st If this young musician allows his professor to train his voice, he may become one of the finest angers of the country. A great deal depends on labor and ready obedience.
The oration of O. T. Chamberlain in behalf of the Associated Alumni was one of the best things in its way, we had the pleasure of listening to on commencement day. All who heard it were delighted with it, and the orator was greeted with much applause It proved that the members of the Alumni Association were not deceived in making choice of Mr. Chamberlain to represent them on this occasion. We hope that he will kindly lecture to us some time during the coming scholastic year. The oration delivered on the 21st is eminently worthy of publication.
Otm Orchestra was decidedly well worth hearing at the Commencement. We regret that it did not pertorm oftener in public during the last year. The Brass Band, too, in spite of criticisms, did excellently well and may justly claim to have surpassed, this year, the achievements of its predecessors. The Brass Band under Rev. Mr. Lilly, and the Orchestra under Bro. Basil have merited great praise. The only harsh criticism which may have been deserved by the Brass Band is that the players insisted too strongly on being heard. Well even this is a good quality. For near listeners, however, softness of sound is a great desideratum especially when the aforesaid listeners are ladies. Above all, let the loud sounding bass drum play a secondary part and get down in the pit or turn its side from the by-standers Play it as well as you do, play,pfu moderate, piu dolce, and all will be perfect.
The Boating Club may boast of one thing: viz., that it performed its duty well and claimed no reward except the good wishes and applause of the multitude of visitors.
Gold badges might have been given to all of them, rewards and prizes were especially deserved by some of them. However, it is as well, it is as praiseworthy, it is even honorable to seek their recompense as they did, in giving a few moments of pleasure to their friends, who highly appreciated their efforts.
We cannot pass unnoticed the good services of the crew of the Pinta, the champions of the year, nor of the crew of the Santa Maria. Captain R. Finley, with his hardy tars, J. D. McCormack, G. Riopelle, T. Dundon, M. Keely, P. O’Connell cannot be too highly praised for his interest in the welfare of his crew and the care he bestowed on eveiy thing that related to the club. If we had R. Finley at the helm of our bark we would deem it safe; he is trustworthy. Captain W. C. Still-wagen, of the Santa Maria, is also self sacrificing, and will risk his head to cany his point, although of all men he is the most tender-hearted and good-natured. He raised a good crew in a short time, battled gloriously and returned to his base onlj’ three seconds behind his opponents. Captain Stillwagen retrieved gloriously his fame as Prince Hal, on the evening of that day. It is not often that one can be victorious twice the same day.
Mr. J. Bagley, of Chicago, has arranged to supply light oars for the fall season, and also to build a barge 45 feet by 5’at a moderate price. This splendid boat would easily carry the whole Band and eight rowers.
Conservatory of Music.
Owing to the large attendance in the Musical Department, which necessitated that all the lime and attention of the teachers should be entirely devoted to giving lessons to the pupils, it was found impossible during the scholastic year just elapsed to establish firmly and develop the Conservatory of Music as intended the preceding year. However, greater facilities and a larger number of music teachers will permit to cany out next session the original plan of this higher department of music. Students capable and desirous to enter the Conser
vatory of Music will have to pass an examination in the general theory and perform on their instrnment as required by the resolutions published in the Scholastic, No. 4, October, 1869.
They alone will have the privilege of two hours practice each day, during the study hours, and the same number of hours on Wednesday.
Public soirees will be given by, and under the auspices of, the conservatory of music at least once a month.
The Methods to be used in the Primary Department of music, are the following:	■
Organ—Zundel’s.
Piano—Bellack’s and Richardson’s.
Violin—Wichtel’s Series.
Flute—Wragg’s Flute Preceptor.
Cornet--------.
Guitar—Carcassi’s Method.	,
Clarionet--------.	.
Violoncello—Romberg.
Contra Bass—Freidheim.	.
Vocal Music—Conconi, and Bassint	.
The Pope’s Jubilee.
The twenty-fifth anniversary of the Pontificate of our Holy Father, Pope Pius IX, was not forgotten by his faithful and affectionate children of the University of Notre Dame. The festivities commenced Thursday evening, June 15th, by several private illuminations; Friday morning quite a number of Papal and American flags were displayed'from different portions of the College edifice, and portraits of the august Pontiff were placed in conspicuous positions. Owing to the pressing duties of the Examination, church services were postponed until Sunday morning. Friday evening the main building of the University was brilliantly illuminated, especially those portions under the immediate care of Father Carrier and Prof. Baasen. In the centre of the building were placed transparencies representing the exterior and interior of St. Peter’s Church and several of the principal buildings in Rome.
On Sunday morning the commencement of the religious celebrations was heralded to the surrounding country by the joyful appeal of twenty-four bells. Solemn High Mass was very impressively celebrated by Very Rev. Father Superior General, assisted by Father Granger and Father Lemonnier as deacon and subdeacon. After Mass the venerable celebrant descended to the foot of the altar and on bended knee intoned the solemn chant of the Te Beum. The strain was taken up by alternate choirs of choristers, whilst the organ sent forth peal after peal of harmonious and sonorous strains which were re-echoed by the chimes in full peal. The magnificent Te Beum was rendered under the able direction of Brother Placidus, the worthy Director of the Choir.
The church was decorated ’ with festoons and garlands of evergreen, under the direction of Bro. Benjamin, assisted by a few of the Juniors. Our artist, Bro. Albert, placed in the entrance of the church a shield bearing the arms of the Holy Father and the inscription Tu es Petrus, Jc. In fine, the celebration of the Pope’s Jubilee is one which will never be forgotten by us his truly devoted children.	£.
Field Sports.
Juniob Depabtment.
The Medals for Field Sports were awarded by the Directors of the various clubs of the Junior Department.
Gold medals were awarded to S. Dum, President, S. Ashton, Captain, L. McOsker, C. Berdel, J. Taylor, J. McGuire, P. Rielly, C. Dodge, W. Dum, D. Hogan, E. Gault,—Champions. . .
D. McGinnis, C. Hutchings. G. Ruger, H. Tay
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

lor, L. Hibben, L. Hayes, M. Cummings, M. Mahony, M. Moriarty, L. Roth, R. Lange, E. Sheehan, V. Hackmann, F. McDonald, J. Shanks.
Silver Medals.—0. Morgan, F. Obert, T. Smith, (Chicago) M. McCormack, V. McKinnon, W. Gross, J. Pumphery, H. Jones.
Minim Department.
The following were honorably mentioned in Field Sports: R. Dougherty, L. Montedonico, W. Byrne, E. DeGroot, G. Gross, A. McIntosh, J. Cor-dano, F. Dowe, T. Gibson.
Zt Might hava Baas.
BY M. B. B.
I sit in the shadow of evening’s decline—
A shade has past over my spirit within;
While fancy roams free—past and present combine, And a still voice sighs sadly, “Ah! it might have been.”
But now I sit lonely, and yet not alone, For I see in the shade what no eye has yet seen—
I see myself happy—no loss to bemoan,
I see but to feel that it once “ might have been.”
I awake from the drcam that in youth filled my mind—
I have viewed the fair phantom, at first dimly seen;
I awake from my dream of fond hope, but to find
I have failed! and I sigh: “ Ah! it once might have been.”
Oh why is the future concealed from our view When on waters, abounding in dangers unseen, We launch our frail bark, bidding thoughtless adieu
To joys, lost forever, that once “might have been.”
The shadows grow dense, and a tear dims my eye: The future is dark,—e’en the phantom has fled;
The past, though not joyless, I greet with a sigh, Yet firmly I press the thorn crown on my head.
Yet hope is not gone nor all happiness dead, For a noble ambition still lives in my soul;
And a joy still survives that around me doth shed A lustre to guide me to life’s highest goal.
O yes, give me truth—give me weapons to fight In the battle of life, ’gainst the false, insincere;
Let me see 'others happy—arrayed in the light	.
Of virtue and peace then my lot I’ll revere.
What matters what “might have been,” life is still brief;
And its joys are as fleeting as shadows at eve, Every joy that we prize we must pay for with grief;
And for every sorrow a joy we receive.
Farewell then to sadness—’tis weak to repine
At what “ might have been,” yet what can never more be;	•
Let me live in the present, whose starlight doth shine On the path which can never grow brighter for me.
The 27th Annual Commencement.
Editor “ Scholastic ”:—I wish to say a few words about the Commencement Day of the University. I can only speak of Wednesday, because I know little of the proceedings on Tuesday. The first thing on Wednesday’s programme—if you don’t believe me, see it—was the item of breakfast Other things, in the course of the day, struck my eyes and ears ; but that thing—the breakfast— struck my mouth in the morning. Didn’t it though! Let no one say that isn’t a joke. After breakfast we proceeded to Washington Hall, where the University Band and Orchestra gave us very excellent music. The address from the Minims came next, by Master Eddie DeGroot He is a fine manly boy, and gave great delight to the audience by the sentiment of his address as well as by the manner of his delivery. This was followed by a discourse on “ Equity,” by Mr. James A O’Reilly, A. M., of the Law Class. It was a clear logical exposition of the subject well conceived, ably presented,'and most effectively delivered. May he
have all the success he deserves in his noble calling. I am sure he will do honor to his Alma Mater wherever he may be. He has certainly achieved a great deal, having successively obtained the degrees of A B., A M. and LL. B. at the early age of twenty-one! He has passed' with honor and distinction through his law studies and is one of the first graduates from the Law-school of Notre Dame. His innate sense of moral duty, combined with the course of moral and mental training through which he has gone, will fit him well to take that stand at the Bar'which it must be confessed is not entirely uncalled for in these times.
Next in order was an overture from the Orchestra, and, after, a comedy entitled “Beware of Rogues.” This comedy was played by the St. Ce-cilians; and to say that the St. Cecilians played that or anything else, under the direction of Father Lemonnier and Prof. Lyons, is the highest eulogy anyone can pronounce upon them. They always de everything well, admirably wdl 1 The names of Berdel, Dodge, Ashton and McHugh speak volumes in behalf of the success of anything in which they have a part. I don’t think MoliSre ever thought of putting into his “Rogueries” the parting salutation addressed by Signor Geronte to Scapin,—and I doubt very much if it be in the “ corrected editionbut then it was done so gracefully, and with such excellent effect, that I think it would be a capital idea to introduce it into the next revision of the play and call it the Ashtonian Edition. Hutchings is a talented boy, and often succeeds in surprising by the amount of unexpected talent which he displays in what he is called upon to do, whether as a character in a comedy or in the character of a student passing a most satisfactory examination. He hails from the Empire City and is a good representative. Hayes, Hackmann, Foley and Staley knew and sustained their parts with distinction. I know, because I saw and heard the manifestations of delight on the part of the audience, that this play of the St. Cecilians was a decided success. Prof Lyons must feel proud of this Association, over which he presides with so much generous kindness, and for whose interests he labors with so much untiring zeal.
After the epilogue, by Berdel, and music by the Band, came the “Grand Cantata” by the Vocal Classes of the University, under the direction of Prof. M. T. Corby, A. M. The singing of A Fil-son received no small share of praise from the audience. As far as I can judge, it merited all the praise it got or could get. Taking it all together, this part of the programme was well rendered, and in a way creditable to its very competent director, Prof Corby. If I had time and space to enter into a detailed criticism of each character and part, I w’ould be able to do fuller justice, but as it is I can hardly do more than mention the names. The Valedictory, by R. H. McCarty, was a good literary production. His manner of delivering it was graceful, and all who know him will readily admit that the honor of being valedictorian was awarded to a polite, high-toned young gentleman.
The Hon. A. C. Dodge, of Iowa, delivered the oration of the day. This speech, which was highly complimentary to the University, was as able as it was full of sound sense and solid instruction.
Counsellor O. T. Chamberlain, a member of the Elkhart Bar, and a graduate of this Institution, delivered the Alumni oration. It was a beautiful production, splendidly composed, and very gracefully delivered.
After the speeches came the conferring of dedegrees. Thirty diplomas were awarded in the Commercial Department; in the Classical, two young gentlemen received the Degree of A B., and one, Mr. Jas. A O’Reilly, of Reading, Pennsylvania, the Degree of A M.; in the Scientific Course, two Diplomas; and in the Law Department, the Degree of LL. B., was conferred on J. A O’Reilly, of Reading, Pennsylvania; Lucius G.
Tong, of South Bend, Indiana, and A J. Reilly, of Fort Dodge, Iowa.	’
This was followed by the awarding of First and Second Honors, and in this the Juniors came out with flying colors. I never saw a more delighted man than Bro. Aloysius was when he saw his Juniors carry off so many truly-deserved honors. As I take for granted that the proceedings in the morning, in reference to Bro. Aloysius, will be in the Scholastic, I pass them by here, and only remark that the presents to him by the Juniors and the St. Cecilians were as generous as they were well merited.
The Band played the retiring march, and thus ended the Twenty-Seventh Acidemic year of Notre Dame, and one in every way of the most glorious in its glorious life. May it continue its prosperous career until it realizes the most ardent hopes of its venerable founder, Father Sorin, and until it produces a rich harvest of the good fruits for which its present President, Father Corby, has labored with honest, untiring zeah
J.
Iha St. Cecilians.
The St. Cecilians are always" the first and the last heard of. When everyone else has closed, they are sure to have their shutters open, and are wide awake when every other Society indulges in Sir Jack’s stentorian snoring. They are really tantalizing.
On Tuesday, 20th inst. at 11 o’clock A 3L, they, bethought themselves to hold a fraternal meeting. The Alumni had just had theirs. Of course, the St Cecilians were not to be outdone. So a meeting was called by the President, Prof J. A Lyons—the soul of them all. Thereto the Director was called also, and likewise a few visitors; among others, Mr. A. Dodge, Jr., of Burlington, Prof P. Foote, J. A O'Reilly, and the bright, talented, and well-remembered Mark Foote. What could be the object of the meeting! What are we going to do at last? Is there anything left undone? These were questions that each one read in his neighbor’s countenance. Each one thought himself an immortal before this, and looked to the distribution of prizes as the summum bonum which was to substantiate his claim to an undying fame. Yet the meeting opened more solemnly than ever. It was a last meeting for the year 1870-71. Everyone felt it. There were companions and friends who had sat side by side a hundred times, and were about to depart forever, perhaps. The joys of the exhibition day could not destroy this sad impression. Joy and grief seldom combine, but they do occasionally in meetings like this.
After the formal opening, Essays were read by those of the St. Cecilians who had prepared themselves for the occasion. Others excused themselves on the plea that their manuscripts and all their literary lore were duly locked up in their trunks and could not be had. M. Mahony, D. Dodge, and others, did their best, nevertheless. Then Mark Foote was unanimously called upon to say a few words to his former comrades. There was no means nor desire of withstanding the invitation, and the young speaker arose amid peals of applause. His address to them was as beautifully woried as it was affecting and well rendered. He spoke to them of days goue by, when he, too, was a St. Cecilian,—of the pleasures and great advantages he had derived as an active member of the Society, and how dearly he loved it still and those connected with it. He begged his hearers never to forget the moments passed in the Society, and the precious teachings which they had received in it. And after paying a delicate compliment to the Rev. Director and the worthy President of the St Cecilia Philomathean Society, the
j
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
young speaker ended his address amid a perfect roar of applause.
Next, the Bev. Director hade his adieu to the St. Cecilians—thanked them for their unvarying kindness towards him personally—praised them for their admirable deportment and their remarkable progress in everything that makes a young man wise, good, and learned, and begged them never to forget to apply the good principles which they had received in the Society, but to show them forth in the world wherever they may be and in whatever circle of society they may move. After this, the Director retired and with him the reporter. The meeting continued a while longer under the Presidency of Prof. J. A. Lyons. Some of the remaining business was transacted, and the members soon adjourned.
May they often meet again; if some are detained away and are not to return, may their remembrance of the past meetings—of this last one especially—be ever fresh in their memoiy; and although like the reporter, they have not the names of their comrades chiselled in silver and gold, may they nevertheless treasure them preciously, preserve them in the most precious of all tablets— their hearts.	*	A.
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
Closing Exercises.
Since the thirty-fourth meeting of this society, eight others have been held. The time in each of of these meetings was devoted to declamations, criticising essays, and preparing for the grand finale. Those worthy of special mention are Messrs. Ber-dell, Dodge, Ashton, Staley, Brown, Hackmann, Mahoney, McHugh, Moriarty, Scott, Hutchings, Dum, Ewing, D. Hogan, Foley, Ortmayer, Kin-kead, Crummey, Egan, Hayes, Foley and Rumeley.
At the dosing meeting Mark M. Foote of Burlington, Iowa, was present and complied with the unmistakable invitation of the sodety for a speech. He acceded to the request and delivered an impromtu address so full of feeling and touching reference to the olden days of the St. Cecilians that he received the most hearty applause the St. Cecilians ever bestowed upon their guests. His speech was elegant and eloquent, and captured his hearers as effectively as his illustrious namesaks captured Fort Donaldson. A vote of thanks was unanimously carried in favor of Rev. N. H. Gillespie, S.S.C., Editor Ate Maria, Professors Corby and Foote, Brother Aloysius, Brother Celestine, Professors Howard, O’Reily and Von Weller, and Mr. J. F. Edwards, S.S.C., for favors rendered to the association. The distinguished guests present at our final meeting were the Very Rev. President, Professors Foote, Corby, O'Reilly, Tong, Baasen, and Clark. The Very Rev. and venerable Father Granger was also present, and so was that most generous and kind hearted of men, Father Lemon-nier, S. S. C. Father Vagnier and Chemin also honored us with their presence.
At the close of the meeting our honored President, Prof J. A. Lyons, addressed the society and congratulated them on their progress. In point of fact their success is due, in a great measure, to him, for never has a man worked with such earnest unselfish labor for the interest of others as our beloved Prof. Lyons has worked for the success of this sodety. May success and prosperity attend the St. Cecilians in life, and I am satisfied that wherever they may be no one of them will forget the generosity and the affectionate labor which Prof J. A. Lyons has always bestowed upon their training. In conclusion the St Cecilians have done welL They always do well, and if their future, as I hope it may, will only be equal to their past, then, indeed, they will be a credit to their Professors, their Alma Mater, and themselves,—quodfdie faustumque •it.	D. B.
On last Thursday evening, reflecting over the pleasure we had in seeing so many of our friends, we noted the names of those who came to our memory; and, as is usual with us, we sent what we had written to the printer. On reading the proof we observed we had not written all, and even now, when adding the following, we fed there may be. others, whose names we cannot bring to mind: Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Clarke, Chicago, Ill. ; T. J. McCarthy, Esq., La Fayette, Ind.; S. Mc-Osker, Elgin, Ill.; O. B. Maples, Reporter for Tribune-, Mr. Hines, Reporter for Times; Augustus Dodge, Burlington, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. Landon, Niles, Mich.; Messrs. Van Sickle and Bonney, artists, South Bend, favored us with their presence.
Spiritual Retreat.
On Saturday, the 24th inst, Rev. Father Hennessey, of St Louis, opened the spiritual retreat for the Community of Notre Dame. On Sunday the Rev. Father preached an eloquent sermon at High Mass; he continued his course of excellent instructions on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, and will terminate the exercises of the retreat on Friday morning.
Father Hennessy has won the hearts of all by his amiable manners, and by the edifying manner in which he has conducted this retreat
Vacation.
Again that term of months, known as the scholastic year, has completed its course, and hundreds of youth, who during that time devoted themselves with untiring assiduity to the acquisition of knowledge, have again gone forth from college and academy, to recreate and rest their minds amid the joys and endearments of home.
The students of Notre Dame are no exception in this particular, and after a faithful employment of their time during the past ten months, they have gone to refresh their minds and lay in a new store of vigor for the coming year. While we rejoice with them in their home-pleasures and amusements, we cannot help feeling that loneliness which their departure has left within the halls of Notre Dame. Yet we would not have it otherwise than it is; for we know how much our students needed rest, and we know, too, how much they will need vigorous minds and stout, healthy bodies to grapple with the labors of next year, when we hope to meet them again, and enjoy the inspiring smile of their cheerful, earnest countenances. In the meantime, young gentlemen, a pleasant and happy vacation to you all.
A synopsis of the “ late delivery” will be given shortly. Important, if true.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
Summer Arrangement.
rpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows: GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 12 20 p. m. I Artin at Buffalo 4.10 a. m "	••	9.17 p. m. I " “a 00 p. m
“	“	1335a.m. j “	"	5.30 p. m
Way Freight, 340 p.m. |	“	“	e.50p.m
GOING ~WEST.
Leave South Bend 3.53 p. m. Arrive at Chicago 7.20 n m “	“	313 a m.	“	“	650alm
“	“	5-00 «-m-	“	“	840 a. m
Way Freight, 11.55 am.	••	11.40 p.m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
•S' For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
W Trains are ruu by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes taster thau South Bend time.
CHARLES F. HATCH, General Superintendent, Cleveland. C. P. Lslakd, General Passenger Agent, Toledo.
H. Watson, Agent, South Bend.
CB0S8IVG.
Gone Vam—Szpreu passenger, 4.20 a. tn., and 7:30 p. m.
Freight. 4:05 p. m.
Gouts South—Express passenger, 11:13 a. tn., and 0:30 P m.
Freight,4:50 a.m.
DNIVEB8ITY OF NOTEE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution. incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommo* dation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern A Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of accetss from alt parts of the Uta ted States
TERMS: Matriculation Fee....................................$	5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing and Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Jees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per Version ol five months...................................  •....... 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each..............................................   10	00
Instrumental	Music.............................    12	50
UeeofHano.......................................     10	00
Ute of Violin........................................ 2	00
Drawing ............................................ 15	00
Ut-e of Philo«ophical and Chemical Apparatus......... 5	00
Graduation Fee......... torn’J $5 f»0; be. $8 0»‘; Cla. 1G 00
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra............................. 35	00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationary, etc., at enrrent prices.
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September, the becond on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Bev. W. CCBSY 8. B. C.
President?
Tile	MARIA,”
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly st Notre Dud eCniversity, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of theCLurch.
TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 9 years $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advuuce.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Aae Maria for $25. in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $4St in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria for $50, in advance.
The postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, of twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance io the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
•^AINT ^ARY’S JUaDEMY,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
St. Mart’s Academy, under the direction of the Sisters of th Holy Cross, is situated on the St- -lostph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing town of South Bend.
Ihe site of St. Mary's is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements <»f such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees rising from the banks vt one of the most beautiful rivers iuthe Mississippi Valley still stand in native grandeur; the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
We are happy to inform our patrons that we hare/at length been able to realize a long cherished desire of opening a School of Design, where choice models in busts, chromes and oil painting in the different schools have been collected, and where full courses will be given by efficient teachers in all the various departments of Drawing and Painting.
For Catalogue, address
Mother M. Angela, Superior,
St. Mary’s Academy, oct3-70	Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
OLD, RELIABLE & POPULAR ROUTE.
CHICAGO, ALTON & ST. LOUIS LINE.
Trains leare TFest Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
Day Express, (except Sundays,).......9:15	a.m
Connects at Bwight with 1 ruins on W estern Bivision.
Joliet Accommodation, (except Sundays,).... 4:00 p.m.
Night Express,..........................  p	M
Daily, but lays over at Bloomington Saturday bights, until 1:55
A.M. Monday Horning.
Lightning Ex., (ex’pt Saturdays and Sundays,) 9:00 p.m.
Greneral Ticket Office,
®	St., Chlcngo, where Passage
and Bleepwg-Car Tickets can be purchased and all desired in-formation as to Routes, Connections, etc. will be cheerfully fur-Bished._	j. c. McMULUN. Gen’l Bup’l.
A. NN WHAN, Gen’l Ticket Agent.
I
\ i I