®ljc JS’djMiwttc
.	PUBLISHED ITEEKLY AlT NOTRE DAME.	.
fhuated fa th IMmshi «f the JiwflettK
“OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVEBSITY OF NOTBE DAME, IND., DEOEMBEB 12, 1868. No. 14.
Arithmetic.
.	BY C. J. L.
■	' ' [continued.]	■ ’
We find it quite easy by means of the nine . digits and the mark 0, or the cipher, to express by these symbols or signs any conceivable magnitudes. Now, to whom are thanks due for the introduction of this very convenient method of signifying by a few signs what it would take many words to express ? Their introduction into Europe is commonly credited to the Arabians, and their invention is also generally ascribed to them. It is true that they were introduced into Europe by scholars conversant with works on Algebra, Arithmetic, and Geometry, collated by the Arabians, but it is not so evident that the Arabians should have the honor of having first conceived that method of expressing quantities, nor must it be taken for granted that the figures were formed in the same manner that they are now. The Arabians obtained the idea of expressing quantities by the local position of characters or symbols, and the use of the cipher, from the ■Hindostanees, and they considered the method as of divine origin : “ The invention of nine figures -with device of place being ascribed to the beneficent Creator of the universe”—as Colebrooke quotes from Crishna’s Commentaries on the Bija Ganita. The opinion of good historians is that this system, or one approaching very near to it, was in use among the Hindostanees nearly four centuries before its general use among the Arabians, and that their system of Arithmetic and Algebra was tolerably complete at the time of Diophantes; but in all allusions to the system the Hindostanees always considered that it was n >t an invention of man but a gift of God. Still,
others think that it was derived by the Hindostanees from the Thibetans; but from whomsoever it originally came, this much we do know—that the system of notation now in use among us was quite familiar to the Arabians who lived in the tenth century. As we said above, however, the method of making the figures was not precisely as it now is. It is easily understood that when the knowledge of the chirographic art was rather limited,—confined to but few in fact,— their method of writing figures must have been very simple. A horizontal straight line was a very convenient way of expressing 1, two horizontal lines connected by an oblique one—thus, Z—was to them an expeditious method of expressing 2; while five lines, connected, was their neatest manner of writing 5. Their cipher was like ours, a circle, and was no doubt suggested by counting around their fingers, once around being expressed by and 0,—that is, translated, once around the fingers. We call that ten. The etymology of the word ten that we use now is rather difficult to derive, some asserting that it comes from the Gothic word taihun or tehan, and others from the old German word zehen, to draw.
It is supposed that the early Phoenicians had direct intercourse with Ireland, and engrafted their names for the first nine digits, for each of which they had a distinct name and symbol in the Celtic language, and from them we who speak the English have the names of the digits. A study of the etymology of these words, and the similarity existing between them in different languages, is very interesting, but rather beyond the limits of a short essay. Consequently we must refer the readers of the *• Scholastic Year,” who may be interested in a further knowledge of the history of the signs used by us now, and who may wish to compare the similarity of words used for expressing the different digits, and in the various languages which have a dependence
106	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
one upon the. other, to the Encyclopaedia Metro-politana, article “Arithmetic,” where they will find the subject treated very extensively and exhaustively. As we have seen above, there is no doubt that these characters were in use by the Arabians, and it is supposed that they were transmitted to the Europeans through the instrumentality of works on Mathematics in the Arabic language. The Abb6 Andres is of opinion that the earliest example of these figures to be found is in a translation of Ptolemy in the year 1136. Kirchner thinks that a knowledge of these tables was communicated to Europe by means of the Astronomical tables of Alphonso, King of Castile, published about 1252, and which were computed by Arabian astronomers. Others are of opinion that they were known in Europe about 1202, and their first use among Europeans is ascribed by these same authorities to Leonardo Pisano. It seems to be admitted that his work treating of the use of the characters which we now use, and of the ease with which computations can be made thereby, was the first published in Europe of which we have any knowledge, although it is not definitely known whether he lived as early as stated above, or, as others suppose, about the middle of the 13th century. However authors may differ about the person by whom and the time at which the use of these numerals was introduced into Europe, they seem to agree that they were in general use first in Spain and afterwards in Italy. The Tuscans and Florentines were famous for their knowledge of Arithmetic in the 13th and 14th centuries, and to them is given the honor of introducing the system of bookkeeping known as the Italian method. As their commerce was quite extensive, they paid great attention to the keeping of accounts, and it is supposed that we are indebted to them for our present process of Multiplication and Division, and also for a classification of the rules of Partnership, Exchange, Interest simple and compound, Loss and Gain, Rule of Three, &c. Although it is a very interesting study to note the. general introduction of the Numerals into Europe, but very difficult even after a very careful comparison of the authorities to know to whom to give the honor of using them exclusively in his works, still it is enough for us to know that they were, without doubt, quite well known in the 13th century. It is asserted that the use of them was taught in the University of Paris as early as 1306. After- this short epitome of the history of Numerals, and their introduction into Europe, it
may not be amiss to mention the fact that the ancients had, as we may express it, two kinds of Arithmetic—one, practical, the other speculative; and to the latter they paid considerable attention, introducing it somewhat into their schools of philosophy. They do not seem to have agreed about their definitions, and hence there were many pretty little quarrels among them. Euclid defined unity to be that by which every thing which exists is called one, and number to be multitude composed of unities. A great many of his cotemporaries and successors did not accept that definition—and we don’t see why they should— and hence they were compelled to give definitions of their own. Although the discussions between those who accepted the Euclidian definition, and those who are opposed thereto, is quite amusing, we have not the time to give, nor you the space to admit, the history thereof. Our mathematicians of the present day don’t agree with Euclid either; or if there is any agreement, it is not seen at first sight—their definition being that a unit is me—a number either a unit or a collection of units. A unit of a number being one of that kind, as of 756 horses, 325 lbs., &c., the unit is one horse, one lb., and so on. Besides the usual division of numbers found in our books, as simple, compound, integral, fractional, &c., there are various other kinds spoken of by old authors, such as perfect, amicable, diametral, triangular, square, &c., a lengthened explanation of which would be quite entertaining, and, no doubt, beneficial. These different kinds of numbers were often used by the ancient philosophers in their analogies; as, for instances, perfect numbers were likened to the virtues, imperfect ones to vices, &c. They, however, did not always proceed very satisfactorily in their analogies, and sometimes they jumped to conclusions not consistent with good common sense, nor with decency. Thus when Pythagoras stated that numbers are the rulers of forms and ideas, and the cause of gods and demons, he asserted a proposition that was both absurd and ridiculous. Still, in their speculative arithmetic, they went that far and farther. Even within the last three centuries immense works have been published to show some relations between numbers and virtues, or other ideas. The numbers 3 and 7 are especially noted for the many Beautiful comparisons to which they gave rise, as well as for the many absurd things said of them.
Although it would be quite interesting to trace the progress of Arithmetic and its improvement

	
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	107	
after the introduction of the Arabian numerals, we must for the present leave that subject and proceed to give some idea of our system of Numeration. [to be continued.] (Revised Poems.) No. III.—The Harp. BY FANCIULLO. When the soft breath of evening, with loving caresses, Rejoices the sweet sunny vale of the West; When the day-star, retiring, imprints golden kisses On<rosy-cheeked nature, ’ere sinking to rest, Come then, sister, and sit on the knoll by the willow, And join thy sweet voice to the harp’s trembling chord; let the rich notes of music, on wings of the zephyr, Bear joy to a heart with thine own in accord.	. When the cricket peeps out from his secret day-chamber, To welcome the mild silvery light of the moon; When the stars from behind the blue curtains of heaven Lean breathlessly forward, entranced by thy tune; 0, then, let thy magical fingers glide lightly,— The slumbering strings rouse to melody true, — And thy own gentle voice chime with every vibration,	’ As on fragrant flow’rs falls the soft soothing dew. When the gay world is breathless with sport and excitement, And nectarine goblets the epicure sips; When silence reigns over the meadows and woodlands, 0, then, let sweet melody flow from thy lips. Touch, then, lightly the chords of thy harp, sister dearest, For music is charming wherever ’tis found, But flowing all pure from the chaste touch of beauty, A new charm is added to harmony’s sound. Law Department at Notre Dame. Since the announcement of the resolutions passed by the Board of Trustees in relation to the opening of a course of Law at Notre Dame, great encouragements have been received by those charged to carry out the intentions of the Trustees. Many well informed and well wishing friends have expressed their opinion on this subject, in a manner that bids to hope for success. Inquiries have also been made as to the time at which the course shall begin, and what shall be its programme; and many other questions showing the interest taken in the subject. . We are not quite prepared to answer the many questions put to us on this matter. We can, however say that the prospectus of the legal studies is now being prepared by the professor resident at the university, and that it shall be published before Christmas; that the course will begin with the second session, opening the 1st of February, 1869.	We are aware that we labor under some disadvantage at the start, and that it will take a few years to form a large class of legal students; for the course has to be created, young men have to be prepared for it. For many years, in fact since its beginning, the University of Notre Dame has sent her graduates to the schools of Law established in other universities, because of the want for which it is now a question of providing. They could not, on leaving their classical studies, and throwing aside Quintillian or Plato, open Blackstone, Story or Kent. A great interval in time and distance was thrown between. Their college life, so pleasant, so regular, so much in accordance with their own studious dispositions, at that paricular time, had to be foregone. Old ties of friendship and old reminiscences had to be severed; an adieu to the old Alma Mater was contemplated in the joyful day of the annual commencement, when the Gold Prize for Competition, or the Honors of Graduation, or perhaps the Gold -Medal of Honor came to cheer the parting student. Then for him to seek elsewhere new teachers and form new acquaintances, not friends, for the College friends are only those who deserve that name, those to whom both heart and mind revert with pleasure, those with whom conformity of habits and congeniality of sentiments and disposition have created a lasting union. We know that to begin a new life is something hard, and that it has its weakening, distracting influence on new studies; and by remedying the evil effects accruing from this change, we offer a great boon to our future graduates, or others who intend to devote themselves to the study of Law. On our part, we may say that it will always be a pleasure to us to afford our students every opportunity of improving themselves, well persuaded, as we are, that in so doing we not only save the individual interests of our students, but also that we contribute so much to the general welfare of that great American society in whose ranks they may be hereafter called upon to perform various and important duties. It is our intention to have a special care over the Law Department, and to contribute by every means in our power to its perfection, so as to place it on a footing with the best Law-schools, in either Europe or America. For success, we must only await the developments of time, and the patronage of an enlightened public, whose generous encouragement has so often heralded success to many more arduous undertakings at Notre Dame.
108	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Our Faculty.

Although, there is no absolute perfection in this world, yet we say anything is perfect, (re latively), when it fulfills, in the best possible manner, the end for which it was instituted. In this sense we may unhesitatingly say that the present Faculty of Notre Dame is perfect. That we do not assert too much in saying this, will be evident, if we understand the duties of a University Faculty, and then consider the facts on’which we base our assertion.
■ A University is a place where young men are prepared for the battle of life. This is effected by teaching them, not only the arts and sciences, by the aid of which they may obtain a livelihood, but, in addition to these,' instructing them in those eternal principles which underlie the entire social fabric, and by the observance of which men fulfil their duties as accountable and social beings. The Faculty of a University is a body of men who undertake to give the young both these species of instruction so very important in the forming of good men and good citizens. Hence the perfection of such a Faculty consists in the faithful and exact discharge of this self-imposed duty.
If now we observe the manner in which the Faculty of Notre Dame perform this important duty we will acknowledge the justice of the assertion that they are perfect. First, as regards the teaching of the arts and sciences, we do not hesitate to say that a more devoted, efficient and thoroughly earnest body of teachers cannot be found in any educational establishment in the country. It is quite possible, we admit, that in some other University, one or two professors may be found who are more learned than an equal number of our Faculty; but taking the whole Faculty as a body, we are not prepared to admit any superiority in any other quarter; and, besides, it is a fact which daily experience is rendering more and more evident, that it is not always the most learned man who is the best teacher. Provided a man is master of his subject to such an extent as to be able to remove readily all the difficulties of his pupils, he is qualified in this respect to teach; and all things else being equal, will be a more efficient teacher than one more learned; for he will see more readily the difficulties of his pupils, and will therefore be better fitted to remove them. Now in our Faculty there is not one who is not thus master of the subject which he teaches, whatever his acquirements maybe in other respects; and hence we may say that in
qualification as teachers, our Faculty is perfect. But scientific or literary qualifications are not enough to constitute a good teacher. Devotedness is also an indispensible requisite; for every one knows that a man must love his work to do it well, and here we defy the world to produce a more devoted and earnest body of teachers than we possess. This can be shown by a single fact. There is not perhaps one individual in the Faculty who might not realize double or treble the profit from his labor in some other occupation, were money his object. Why then does he teach ? Simply because he loves teaching, and is satisfied with a comparatively small remuneration for his labor, in order that he may secure for himself the pleasure which he finds in imparting knowledge to others.
As regards the teaching of sound moral principles, those who are specially engaged in this particular do it well and thoroughly, while all, without exception, second their efforts, by exemplifying in their own conduct the teachings of their associates, and by their gentlemanly affability of manners render moral and social propriety attractive to all around them. Thus, not only do those, whose special province it is to form the moral character of the young who come to Notre Dame, fulfill their duty thoroughly, but all contribute their share to this important end, and therefore we say that in this respect also our Faculty is perfect. We do not pretend to deny that from time to time a less worthy member may have found his way, for a time, into the Faculty, as he might have done into any other similar organization. But thank heaven such a fact is of rare occurrence, and prompt action on the part of the officers of the University remedies the evil. But what we do say without fear of contradiction is, that for ability, efficiency, devotedness and moral standing, the present Faculty of Notre Dame can compare advantageously with that of any other institution in the land.
For those who are acquainted with Notre Dame these declarations are not necessary; we make them for the benefit of those who are not acquainted and who still would like to know something about the status of our professorial corps. We do not however do so iff a spirit of boastfulness; for we know that blessings of this kind, as all others, depend upon the goodness of an ever watchful Providence, and while we sincerely rejoice that we are able to make these statements in all truthfulness, we humbly acknowledge our indebtedness, for the matter of them, to the Author of all good.


>1
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	109	
r\	T>	I	First Algebra. College bulletin.	m	T T. 0 Mahony, L. G. Dupler, H. P. Morancy, D. Wile, D. Clark, A. Reilly, C. Sage. Arrival of Stir dents at IV. Dame.	Second Algebra. —	T. Watson, J. Lecompte, J. Wilson, R. McCar- December 2d.	thy, J. Coppinger, M. Foote, L Buddeke. William J. O’Brien, White Oak Springs, Wis.	Third Algebra.	
William Peebles,	St. Louis, Mo.	F. Crapser, C. Ilgenfritz, T. McKey, W. Nelson, Roswell H. Dennis, Coldwater, Mich.	J. Eisenman, J. Edwards, T. Kinsella. December 4th.	First Arihmetic Sr. Seymour Washburn, Lafayette, Ind.	B. Gambee, J. Eisenman, J. Mader, J. Mont- Edward C. Reeves,	Bloomington, Ind.	gomery, J.	Harrison, C. Sage, D. Diemer, M. December 7th.	Wenger, C.	Ilgenfritz, J. Grier, J. Heery, R. L. Henry H. Voorhees, Burlington, Iowa.	Akin, J. L.	Gavitt, T. Downing, J. Wilson, A. December 9 th.	Wetherbee,	J. Alber, M. Foote, F. Ingersoll,	
C. L. Walton,	Pontiac, Mich.	W- Small> H- Beakey. Second Arithmetic. L. Reswick, A. Menard, P. Rhodes, J. Vocke, Tables of Honor.	8. Corby, B. Mathers, L. Dunnavan, W. C. Lence, 		F. W. Metzger, W. Orr, F. Wood, W. Sangster, ct.	C. Stuart, H. Schnelker, M. Spellman, M. Hite. Senior Department.	’	> r	> E. Fitzharris, W. Waldo, Jas. Curran, Jno.	’ Third Arithmetic. Shanahan, G. Chane, W. M. Bird, T. Kinsella,	Garharstine, J. Leunig, E. Fitzharris, E. John Moriarty, C. Ilgenfritz, Wm. C. Lence.	Whittaker, J. M. Finnerty, B. Vocke, H. Nunna- macher, T. Dechant. Junior Department.	First Arithmetic Jr. B.	Heffernan, D. J. Wile, J. Nash, R. Espy,	John Broderick, James Ryan, Roscoe Brough- C.	J. Hamblin, A. Hemsteger, R. Broughton, R. ton> George McCartney> Edward O’Bryan, Ben-Staley, V. Hackman, Jno. Broderick, J. McGuire. jamin Heffernan> Vincent Hackman> Austin Ca-Minim Department	bel, Daniel Eagan, M. Brannock, Philip Coch- C. Campeau E. Dwyer, H. Fosdick, E. P. rane, H. Hemsteger, W. Clarke, F. Nicholas, Goffinet, A. Trumpff, W. Byrne.	Mitchell. Third Arithmetic Jr.	
		 C. Morgan, Jno. Klein, H. Hug, G. Hug, Geo. Kahmann, J. Pfeiffer, C. J. O’Neil, D. Lafferty, Honorable Mention.	A. Trentman, H. Odendahl, R. J. Delahay, J. Krauth. Astronomy.	Fourih Arithmetic Jr. H. B. Keeler, T. O’Mahoney.	Geo. Terrell, C. Beggah, W. Odendahl, E. Analytical Geometry.	Odendahl, J. Michel, W. Wallace, F. Miers, J. „ t t,-	T «	Murphy, W. Taylor, W. Carson. H. B. Keeler, H. L. Eisenman, J. Cunnea.	r J ■	Commercial Course. '	Trigonometry.	~	i T	T tt •	tv ml CoTTVfn^rczdv LoWt'^~u, H&rnsoiiy eJoiiu Jxlberj A. B. White, A. Reily, D. A. Clark, W. Rhodes. jokn Broderick. Thos. Downing, H. H. Schnel-First Geometry.	ker, John Vocke, J. M. Duffy, E. Bahm. L. G. Dupler, D. Clark, H. Morancy, A. Reilly,	Book-Keeping. W. Rhodes.	Theory:—M. Hite, W. H. Sangster, B. A. Gran- Second Geometry.	ger, J. J. Page, L. Schmeider, C. Marantette,	
D. Waldo, H. Wrape, R. McCarthy, J. Alber, W. B. Small, J. H. Frittz, A Clewes, S. Corby, David J. Wile.	J. M. Grier, T. Lappin, A. Maierhoffer, T. McKey, Third Geometry.	J. Montgomery, H. Owen, 0. Moseley, J. B. C. Ilgenfritz, J. P. Rogers, Carlton Sage.	Roberts, L. Towne, R. Campeau, L. Dupler, Jas.	
110	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Finnerty, T. Kinsella, J. Mader, F. Metzger, T. O’Neill, W. Orr, W. Rowan, C. M. Wenger, F. P. Wood, H. Bird, Janies Wilson, Laurence Wilson.
Practice :—T. Downing, J. F Ryan, H. Murphy, C. Parker, W. Roy, B. Vocke, A. Beverley, A. Wetherbee, J. Deehan, D. J. Diemer, H. Nun-namacher, G. M. Webb, H. Beakey, J. Brannock.
Course of Studies.
The latitude which is given in American colleges to the student ambitious of obtaining an education, interferes necessarily with the regularity of the course as marked out for graduation in their catalogue, and this strict regularity, which is scrupulously observed in European schools, where young men are classified frequently regardless of the proficiency which they may have attained in certain branches of their studies, has in some measure to be discarded here, in order to save the American youth time and expenseas well as useless review of matters already sufficiently studied. Thus instead of the eight invariable and time honored classes of Europe, each subject of studies forms a class with us. We have Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Rhetoric, Grammar, Geometry, and many other classes, each of these being moreover subdivided in 1st, 2d, 3d and 4th, and more too, as the number of the students or their proficiency demand it. In a word each study is taught separately. Latin does not mix with Greek. Grammar and Arithmetic have their hours, class-rooms and teachers, sacred to themselves, and so likewise of all other branches.
From this system, which has the approval of many learned educators and which is beyond doubt very beneficial to the student, who finds himself at home in all his classes, it follows that a student may be attending a first class of Latin whilst he belongs to a fifth class of Greek; that instead of eight classes we have here something like a hundred; instead of eight or a dozen professors we need thirty-five or forty. A very costly system, one will say. We must grant that it is, and none know it better than those who have to figure up the very large expenses entailed on such a university as Notre Dame. The youth who quietly sits down on the schoolbench might sometime indulge in making up the sum, and approximately guess what a whole year’s run of a college amounts to.in hard cash; especially if such a youth knows something of the sums voted by the aiderman of his city for
the mere support of their ward schools; or if he heard of the plentiful donations lavished upon some of the famous universities of this country, which donations are not too much for the welfare and success of their grateful recipients..
But anon we could perceive it we have withdrawn somewhat from our subject, which was simply to show why, at Notre Dame, we have not followed the system in vogue in European schools, but rather had conformed ourselves to the exigencies of our growing country, with the hope, however, that at some future day we shall be enabled to follow more closely the old plan, which after all is absolutely the best whenever it can be followed.
According to the announcement made in the last number of The Scholastic Year, we give below the list of the students who, at present, follow the classical course, each one being placed in the order to which his class entitles him. We have used the alphabetical order, and make no distinction in the lists, as to the personal merit of the student. We have taken Latin as our standard, and whenever proficiency in other studies correspond to it, we signify it by affixing the letter C to the name of the student, meaning thereby that his study of the course is complete thus far. If the student is deficient in some of his studies we record it by affixing the letter D, and naming the branch in which the student is deficient:
Classical Course.
Sixth Year:—J. Cunnea, D, 3d Greek; J. Curran, D, 3d Greek; W. McClain, C; J. O’Reilly C.
Fifth Year:—G. Atkinson, D, 2d Greek; T. Ewing, D, 2d Creek; R. McCarthy, D, 2d Greek; P. McKeon, D, 2d Greek; J. Rogers, D. 1st Greek; D. Tighe, D, 1st Greek; W. Walker, C.
Fourth Year:—A. Arrington, D, Greek; Jas. Edwards, D, 2d Greek; M. Foote, D, Greek; J. Garrity, D, 2d Greek; W. Hoynes, D, 1st Greek; J. McClain, C ; M. O’Mahony, C.
Third Year: J. Dickinson,D, Greek; H. Eisenman, D, Greek; F. Ingersoll, D, 1st Greek; T. Johnson, C; H. Lecompte, D, Greek; C. McCarthy, D, Greek; J. McHugh, C ; H. Morancy, D, Greek; P. O’Connell, C; J. Staley, C ; J. Zahm, D, 1st Greek.
Second Year:—R. Broughton, D, Greek; Wm. Clarke, D, Greek; P. Cochrane, D. Greek; F. P. Dwyer, D, Greek; E. Gambee, C; B. Heffernan, D, Greek; J. McGlynn, D, Greek; H. Ody, D, Greek; J. Shannahan, D, Greek; T. Watson, D, Greek.
x>

L
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Ill
First Year, 2d Session:—31. Carney, J. Coppinger, P. Fitzpatrick, E. Hagan, C. Hutchings, J. Nash, T. O’jMahony, A. Walter, D. Wile.
First Session:—J. Dooley, V. Hackman, J. W. Lence, J. B. Logan, C. Marantette, J. Monroe, F. Nicholas, 0. O’Neil, P. Tinan, J. Ward, M. Wellington.	-
Forthcoming Exhibition
By the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society.


Faithful to their engagements, the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society will give on the 15th inst., in honor of their glorious Patron, St. Cecilia (whose festival has been especially transferred), a splendid Exhibition whose principal feature will be the play “If I were a King.”
The members of the society will moreover endeavor to please their audience by the recitation of select pieces.
Musical strains from the Orchestra and the Brass Band of the University, and songs prepared for the occasion, will add their share to the interest of the Exhibition.
For the better understanding of the play we give the following outlines.
Prologue of the Play.

To honor St. Cecilia, if you please, We will conduct you far beyond the seas, To fair Italian shores, where Shepherds meet, With snowy flocks, calm grazing at their feet; Where fragrant groves, and azure skies o’erhead, On Ischia’s wave their soft reflections shed, While in the distance Mount Vesuvius stands, Too stem a monitress for these bright lands.
’Tis not our province to anticipate The tale that our performers must relate, But to impress the lesson of our play	'
We hint the point its various scenes convey.
’Tis to enforce, that justice will ere long Beward all virtue and redress all wrong, Will punish crime, and open to the light The evil deeds which sought the screen of night; To show, that though malice triumphs for an hour, That still she answers to a mightier power, And that the tyrant plotting for a crown, Oft, when least fearing, sudden is cast down: That injured Innocence, though long oppressed, Is in her fetters by her conscience blest.
’Tis true that many a knave until he die May stand forth prosperous to the World’s dull eye; A shrewd Ruisco, he may scheme and plan, And cheating all, pass for an honest man: Gonsalvo too, and Banquo may succeed In hiding and abetting his dark deed,	•
But when the measure of their crimes run o’er, Long slighted mercy waits for them no more, And falling in the snare themselves have laid, The debt of their cold cruelty is paid,
If not on earth, beyond the silent land, Where justice measures with no stinted hand,
Upon the side of Virtue, every state, ’ • Lofty or lowly, holds the good and great. Not every shepherd boy, ’tis very true, Should labor with an earthly throne in view.
’ But every youth, no matter how obscure, Can win a crown by being just and pure, A crown celestial, to which those of earth, Are trifling tinsel, dim and without worth. Indeed we all are heirs by regal claim
' To princely realms above those earth can name. And while we labor to obtain this wealth, Our emulation breathes of holy health; If from this object all our actions spring, Each one is right to wish himself a King.
Outline.
The Drama “If I were a King,” in four acts, composed expressly for the Society by a literary friend of the Institution, and performed by about forty young students, is as follows: In the fisrt act a group of shepherds are watching their sheep on tho Bay of Ischia. They find a mysterious letter announcing that the Prince is to be drowned, indicating a conspiracy against the King of Naples, and closing with an allusion to “ two brothers’’ in a manner quite puzzling to the curious shepherds. Tbeir wonder subsides, and a shepherd boy of superior appearance, named Genaro, enters, and is greeted with affectionate reproaches for his long absence. After a while be falls asleep, and is left that he may rest in quiet, but soon wakens, and in soliloquy reveals the fact that he has that day saved the Prince from drowning, has been rewarded and promised the lasting friendship of the royal heir to the throne of Naples. This kindness seems to have aroused in the youth an ambition for something higher than his present condition, and he alludes with bitterness to the cruelty of his overseer, Banquo, but despairs of escaping from it, when the veritable Banquo enters, abusing and menacing Genaro, who turns and defies him. The overseer leaves the stage venting his rage in severe threats Genaro, discouraged, is about to go as commanded to tend the sheep, when he is joined by his little brother Valerio, who enumerates the wrongs he has suffered, and is assured by Genaro that he shall never be subjected to the like again ; and the scene is closed.
Now conspirators enter; discuss their plan for the assassins, tion of King Ferdinand; but Genaro, under the covert of a large tree, overhears their sonversation, and is startled to fiad Banquo a bribed accomplice in the projected treason and regicide. Ruisco, Gonsalvo and Banquo are the conspirators. Ru_ isco, being the King’s cousin, has determined to betray Naple3 into the hands of the Spaniards (the Spanish Naval General, Cesare, being in the secret), on condition that when Ferdinand is dead Spain will recognize him as King of Naples. Ruisco dis. covers Genaro. Alarmed, he questions him to find if anything has been overheard. Genaro boldly rebukes the villiain for his unseasonable presence in this lonely place, bnt gives him no sat. isfaction, when Ruisco leaves the scene, undecided whether to kill Genaro or not	.
Left alone, the shepherd immediately summons his companions, and after telling them all, declares his determination to take them with him to Naples to inform the King in time to pre vent the catastrophe. In the next scene Genaro after consider ing the dangers hanging over the kingdom, expresses his desire to be possessed of power, of large armies, fleets, strong fortifications, »&c., that he may be enabled to execute justice, protect innocence, encourage virtue, and make the whole world happy. At length he falls asleep on the green sward, and, dreaming, sings, “ I wish I were a King.” At this moment the royal cortege passes. The King overhears his wish, and resolving to give |
113
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
the shepherd boy a taste of royalty, steps from the litter and orders that Genaro be carefully laid upon it,' aud carried in this way asleep to Naples. In the palace Ferdinand collects his courtiers and tells of the joke he is playing, informing them that they must treat the new King as if he had always reigned, and that he abdicates his. crown for three .days in favor of the shepherd.	.	.
While yet asleep the M 'jor Domo of the Palace observes a re. markable white lock on the head of GenasO, and is struck because this is peculiar to the present royal line of Naples.
The youth wakens, wonders at his surroundings, is obsequiously greeted by courtiers, and, though quite mystified, finding all persist in treating him as a King, he resolves to embrace this providential opportunity to rescue the kingdom from impending danger. Meanwhile a scene of the conspirators is brought forward, showing them confident of success.
The scene following finds Genaro commanding the entire court to assemble. From the throne he proclaims the attempted assassination of the King, and pointing out Rulsco and Gon-salvo, orders them to be searched, and conclusive evidences of their guilt are found upon the spot The royal joke turns out a miraculous defeat of treason and murder. While this is going on, Spanish forces are moving upon Naples, and as Ferdinand s listening to the story of the “white lock,” the alarm of ani attack is given, and he rushes out to battle.	-
Alberto, the Prince, hears the cannonading, sees the flames and the palace in disorder, enters, calling pitifully for his father, when Genaro meets him,and they recognize each other.
Genaro, left alone, is attacked by a party of brigands in pay of RuiSCO, with that villain at their head, who is about to slay him as having defeated the smooth plot, when Cecato, a shrewd shepherd, who with his fellows had come to Naples to give information, inflicts summary justice, and the shepherds, Genaro aud Cecato, leave, tired of royal life, for their home on the Ischia, glad to know that Blnquo will never torture them again. Ban-quo seeing the turn of affairs, and meeting with much trouble, with brigands, being arrested and nearly murdered once or twice, determines to leave the world and play the her nit until all danger is over. The qualms of a bad conscience torment him to death however, and we see that crime carries with it its own punishment, for this o erseer had in their infancy stolen Genaro and Valerw, who were princes, from the palace, bemg bribed by RuiSCO. Naples once quiet, after the defeat of the Spaniards, Ferdinand sends for Genaro to reward him in a manner becoming the g eat service he has rendered. In Naples the identity of Genaro aud Valerio with the stolen princes is attested, and the youth, who as a simple shepherd had saved the life of the Prince and the throne of the King, finds himself at last heir to the crown he has so marvelously rescued from the grasp of the usurper.
Saint Mary’s, Dec. 1st, 1868. Arrivals.
Nov. 25tli—Miss M. Silversleeve, Cheyenne Wyoming Territory.
Table of Honor, Sr.
Misses F. Hosmer, J. Hynds, A. Cunnea, C. Bertrand, L. English, A. Carpenter, W. Corby, A. Boyles, H. Higgins, J. (Sittings and M. Minor.
Honorable Mention.
Graduating Class: Misses Lizzie and Laura Tong, E. Longsdorf, K. Livingston, K. Cunnea,. A. Ewing and M. Twoomey.
First Class Sr: Misses N. Taber, A. Carmody, A. Mulhall, O. Brady, E. Kirwan, N. Tracy, J. Dobson, M. Mukautz, M. Johnson, M. Claffey, E. Ewing, M. Carraber, A. Darcy, M. Alexander, M. Walton, L. Lewis, L. McNamara and E. Howard.
Second Class Sr: Misses S. Thomson, E. Bland, R. Rettig, C. Foote, L. Ingersoll, E. Lindsay, L. Leoni, N. Leoni, M. King, N. Sherburne, E. Carr, N. Thomson, A. Heckman, T. Lafferty, N. Wilder, L. Chouteau, C. Carpenter, A. Walker, T. Vanhorn, M. Ogle, K. Armstrong, L. Corning, E. Smith, M. Edwards.
Third Class: Misses M. Tuberty, H. Neil, A. Fulwiler, N. Simms, M. Shirland, E. Ruger, F. Butters, E. Plamondon, J. Chesebro, A. Wiley and M. La Brash.
First Preparatory Class: Misses A. Mast, S. O’Brien, A. Lyons, M. Foote, M. Rumely, M. Cochrane, J. Lonergan, S. Coffee, C. Warner and L. Barnett.
Second Preparatory Class: Misses H. Sproch-nle, K. O’Toole, M. O’Toole, J. Davis, A. Minnick, E. Simms, K. Cline, M. Vanhorn and N. Burridge.
Third Preparatory Class: Misses J. Denny, L. Blaizy, C. Hoeber, M. Clune, A. Matthews, J. Davis, A. Dingers and E. Siely.
German.	'
First Class: Misses R. Mukautz and E. Ruger.
Second Class: A. Wiley and L. English.
French.
F.rs\ Class : Misses K. Livingston, A. Carmody, • L. & L. Tong.
Second Class: Misses A. Mulhall, M. Carraber and M. Alexander.
. Drawing.	’
Misses L. Lewis, A. Carpenter, F. Grimes, C. Heckman, A. Ewing, L. Chamberlain, A. Cunnea.
Table of Hoiiot, Jr.
Misses M. Letourneau, L. Wilder, L. McNamara, B. Meyers, B. Fensdorf, M. Durant, M. Nash, M. O’Meara, F. Taylor, R. Carroll, B. Wilson.
Honorable Mention.
First Preparatory Class: Misses L. McKenney.
Secsnd: Misses A. Clarke, A. Woods.
First Junior Class: Misses L. Thomson, A. Garrity, J. Walton, A. Byrne and A. Longley.
Second. Junior Class: Misses K. Former, B. Henry, M. Vaughn, A. De Camp and M. Reynolds.