Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper vlcturus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 14, 1878. Number 2.
The Marriage Feast.
BY LADY GEOBGIANA FULLERTON.
A festive scene—a marriage hoard—
Jesus and Mary there;
Ah, little could we guess the need ~ That calls for Mary’s prayer.
’Tis no important grace, no boon
For one in dire grief:
It is no deep heart-rending woe That clamors for relief.
Only a poor and simple want:	-
Wine for the wedding guest,
’Tis but the chasing of a care That clouds the anxious breast!
What we should hardly dare to call
A sorrow, she can read
In a weak heart that turns to her
E’en in a trifling need.
What scarce wins pity from the wise To Mary make it known,
A mother’s hand will drive away The fear we blush to own.
—Ave Maria.
What Constitutes Greatness?
Turning over the pages of the new American Cyclopaedia, the student of literature is constantly tortured by the recurring inquiry, “Who was he?” There appears the name of a man of whom he has never as much as heard, and he reads on for information only to learn that he is the celebrated author of a long list of books of which he has no more knowledge than of the building of Solomon’s Temple The Sphynx itself is a more intelligible riddle to him than how such a man ever came to have a place in history. It is a subject for grave and curious inquiry, and the student returns from his speculations unenlightened and un-instructed^
The great difficulty is, the world has not a proper appreciation of merit, and fame has become a comparatively cheap thing. We are too credulous, too easily humbugged. We sit in our private boxes and see the play go on, allowing the false glare of the stage to charm us into a quasi acquiescence, and we see the stars that illuminate the stagesky, the moon that looks so natural, and passively allow ourselves to be deluded into the belief that they are real. A moment’s reflection would demonstrate to us that the artificial fragrance of our cigar is not more transitory. A moment’s observation by daylight would show us the trick that was played on us; but we do not reflect, we do not
take the trouble to observe, and the conjurer’s victim is not more deluded than we.
There is a deep and beautiful philosophy underlying all this. And blind is the man who will dare affirm it as the result of chance. Is fame necessarily an ephemeral thing? We shall see. History is but a monument of which every stone is a personal biography, and a peculiar mosaic patchwork at best. Caesar, the scholar, is forced by events to turn his pen into a sword, and with that weapon conquer the world, and returning to Rome render his name imperishable by writing his own version of the event which advanced the civilization of the world by at least a century. The world delights to contemplate such a character; it feels the power he has evolved, and cannot fail to pay tribute to his genius. Homer wrote a glorious epic; and unborn nations, of which he never dreamed, have rendered him famous by reading it; but it is not so much the poem that they remember as the spirit of the people and the time of which he spoke. Aristotle collected the scattered and fragmentary speculations of the philosophers who preceded him into a grand system of abstract and applied science; and though he held the world in bondage for centuries to the grandeur of his genius, the spirit of inquiry and investigation at last declared his system false, and has risen above and beyond it; yet the world has not ceased to admire and eulogize the man. Kepler remained a slave to his master, Tycho Brahe, because of his admiration of that tutor’s learning, but when he began to think for himself he saw the fallacy of his master’s theory, and by proving it, he made a place for himself in history. The lives of those men may have been pure and noble, or the exact reverse, for all we know, and this is the striking defect of history. It loses sight of the men themselves in the dazzling brilliancy of their achievements; and here is wherein our history has the advantage over all others of the past, and at the same time suffers from a corresponding disadvantage. The men of our nation are not heroes removed by centuries that have rolled in between, but their lives are as familiar to us as the friends whom we see on the street every day. “ But we have lost immensely,” says Franklin, “by being transplanted.” Yes, we have lost our title to the past; the hierarchical succession of history passed on beside us, but we belonged not to it, and our pretentions to a lineage are as ludicrous a mockery as the attempt to foist the American Indian into the place vacated by the “Lost Tribe of Israel.” The Church of Jesus Christ did not abandon Protestants. Protestantism maligned and abandoned the Church, and that moment forfeited and forever lost the right of succession; whatever it may gain must date from that period; it cannot go beyond it. The unbroken succession passed on as if Protestantism had never been, and the result is only a matter of history. We
5
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
are a people of yesterday; and, notwithstanding all the Fourth-of-July orations ever spoken, the events of our history lack the grandeur and magnitude which invest the nations of the old world with such unimpeachable dignity. We scout the very idea of “caste” in our democracy, and yet it is the background without which the Drama of Aristocracy cannot be successfully presented; and when we play it to our satisfaction on a provincial stage and then bring it to a great metropolitan city we find ourselves laughed at and hissed by the refined audience,-and retire in shame and humiliation from the just anger we have provoked. And thus it is with our history; we lack the age which is necessary to give it interest; a history in toto which, so far as the world is concerned, might easily be written on the fly-leaf of a child’s primer instead of filling fourteen large volumes, each one labelled “Bancroft’s History of the United States,” which no one pretends to read. The work is made from the purest gold, we know, but it lacks what it can never have—a background, and is withal hammered out so thin that the reader cannot help the feeling that he is being imposed upon and that the author was running his distaff without flax. And again, fancy an author with all the genius- of Homer writing an American epic! An insane asylum would be his proper home. Our orators tell us we are a great people, and if boasting makes a people great then we are pre-eminently so, for if we have one national trait more peculiarly developed than another it is the habit of lauding ourselves, forgetful of the old proverb, “Self-praise is censure.” We are wealthy and talented, it is true, but withal our history lacks unity and interest; read’it once through and you are done with it. There is nothing to draw upon the imagination, no symmetry, no beauty,—nothing but a few miscellaneous facts with very little method, and we turn to the history of the Old World with a pleasant sense of relief that there is such a grand thing as an old world to furnish us food for thought.
The great men of a country must always depend on the competition—the intellectual training and culture—of their colleagues and opponents.' To be great means to be superior—to be above, to be better than those who form our ideals of ordinary men, and in proportion as our ideals change so do our bpinions of our great men. I do not pretend to say this is a good definition, but it is the popular one. The common thief may regard his brother reprobate as a great man because he has better success and more ability to evade the just punishment of his crimes, and his opinion is at least as justifiable as the popular canonization of men whose private lives have been a burning reproach to society, simply because they were endowed with genius which they have basely abused by their evil lives. By what tenure does Edgar A. Poe hold his place in our hearts ? A man whose vices were as gigantic as his intellect. By what authority does he preserve his niche in the temple of fame ? Bjr the power of intellect alone. We cannot help our admiration of his genius, but it should ever be coupled with execration of the man. And is this so ? We know that it is not There is a sympathy in vice, and a sordid avarice which prompts men to praise him that by so doing they may excuse their own moral turpitude, and elevate their base, brainless lives into respectability upon the ladder of his acknowledged mental power. There are men who admire Aaron Burr, the traitor and libertine, whose name can scarce be mentioned by a true patriot without disgust, and by a true, pure woman without contamination; men who would fain doubt the integrity of his accusers
sooner than the fame of the murderer they affect to admire. ! James Fisk is not without his admirers either, a man who , was abandoned and shunned by the society of New York	.
city as , too gross for them. One would fancy, after such	,
expulsion he would find “ no man so poor to do him hornage”; his immense and fashionable funeral cortege is sufficient answer. He was a man powerful for good, but who	j
accepted by voluntary choice a life of infamy, and for so doing deserves only the scorn and loathing of a scandalized community. That he was two-thirds of a great man is only the concluding article in his moral indictment. He should	,
have been the other third, and there is no excuse, no palliation why he was not. And there are living examples, not less noteworthy, whose lives have been so notoriously base and corrupt that the halo of intellect which surrounds their names is not sufficient to crush out the effluvia of their debaucheries. There are certain public men who have almost held the destiny of the nation in their hands,—men whom we were proud to name as kings in the realms of intellect—truly have they “taught us lessons of disgrace,” and while they are repaid by honors and increased emoluments, where is our guarantee that the lessons in licentiousness which they inculcate by example will not be practiced by those who are to take their places to the complete subversion and destruction of all we hold most dear—religion, freedom, and happiness ?
Men who hold high rank in society are always men of great intellect, and if they have great temptations and strong passions God has given them great power to overcome them. And to those men and women who have intellect to comprehend the enormity of their moral delin-	'M
quencies, I can extend no charity, no moderation, no extenuation, no rewards. To the humble and ignorant, whose lives are hedged in by the forced contact of vicious and de- • basing associations, whose homes are cold and cheerless—a place to exist in rather than a home—whose hearts have never been lifted into the sunlight of God’s smile, I can extend sympathy and compassion, and their vilest deeds pale into insignificance beside the corrupted passions of those whose duty it is to become their teachers. The power of a great bad life is too potent in its lessons of evil and cor- ’ ruption to demand one moment’s sympathy, one single sigh of pity. I do not wish to step in between the certain jus- . tice of the Divine law and the infallible sanction which God has given to it; but at the same time, just so far as rewards and punishments-go in this world, I cannot, and will not, write my judgments in the sand. I know and feel the truth of the spirit of forgiveness,—the purest, sweetest faculty of our nature, and which could come alone from a God of love and mercy,—and I can comprehend the awful struggle between conscience and temptation in the heart of him who was trusted and who betrayed that trust; and while I feel that placed in the same situation I might have fallen, yet I cannot withhold nor change my verdict of condemnation. The spirit of forgiveness may be abused—carried too far,—and it has become the curse of our American society. It is wrong, and it works evil in a multiplicity of ways. It is an insult to virtue, and loosens the very foundation of our national strength by assisting wicked men to make respectable that which is most foul and loathsome.
I would sign no man’s death-warrant until he himself has signed it; but the moment he does, I would lay aside my sensitive scruples and affix my signature with a fearless and unshi inking hand.
Public opinion has more to do in shaping the exterior z |
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
23
lives and actions of our great men than most of us imagine, but it is our great men who shape and give currency, force, and direction to public opinion, and so sure as the one relaxes and becomes effete the whole structure will ‘ crumble to the dust. Political life and political influence
are the great objects of an unnecessary majority of our young men. They recognize the fact that a greater amount of publicity may be secured in less time and by the expenditure of less real labor than by the adoption of any legiti-
■ mate profession. Thus the bar becomes thronged with men who know nothing of jurisprudence, whose moral principles have long since been sacrificed to one albabsorbing mania for public station and its attendant notoriety, and public offices are consequently entrusted to men who are mentally and morally bankrupts; and thus our ordinary criterion of greatness is most shamefully debased. By the intrigues and obliquities of such men the path to eminence through the field of politics has become so thronged with the mire and slime of calumny, so beset with deadly assassins whose highest aim is to murder the reputation of any who pass that way, so dishonorable in every respect, that men of integrity, of ability’’, and real moral worth will not venture upon the path at all, and the consequence is, the rfbst important offices in the nation are occupied by men who are the least capable of filling them. The course of training a man is compelled to submit to before he can become a successful politician, instead of making him more worthy and capable, serves to so debase and ruin his char acter that he becomes unworthy the confidence and support which he has spent the best years of his life to attain. The ability to manage a primary or ward meeting is as far from being a recommendation for honesty and efficiency as the absurd idea that a man made a better President because he once built a log cabin, or split rails, or managed a tannery. If men would only think before acting, such absurdities would never have a place in history.
Because a man is a professional politician it does not necessarily follow that he is a dishonest man and a vulture in society, but I think observation and experience go so far to prove it that at present there is not a single exception. Select every professional office-seeker you know, and study their characters faithfully and impartially, watch their actions closely, follow out their motives, and you will find in them an intense love of self over-ruling and controlling their every thought and perverting their every action. This is not necessarily so, but experience has proven that it is the case. This fact is as humiliating to our pride as American citizens as it is undeniable. Traverse the world from one extreme of it to the opposite,-and you will find nowhere else such baseness, deceit, and calculating depravity in political circles as is exhibited in our own free republic. To one who does not understand the complete working system and machinery cf our Government, this would seem a startling and unaccountable statement, and he would find it very difficult to harmonize it with the evident prosperity and continued tranquillity of our national affairs; but there is nothing contradictory or impossible in it when we reflect upon its universality coupled with the checks and balances which are so wisely imposed on every position of any importance. It is inseparable from the nature of poison to kill—to destroy life,—but there is no danger to be apprehended from an over-dose, for it then reacts upon itself; and so it is in poli- i tics: a thief will not permit another thief to steal unless he can share the profit, for he feels that by so doing he would
, be diminishing the chances for his own enrichment; and , thus politicians hate' and watch one another, and by so doing relieve the nation of the necessity for a vast amount of vigilance. This is why our Government rolls so prosperously along; but the fact is so very disgraceful in itself, and so repugnant to our principles of equity and morals, that from time to time there arises a great cry for reform, a cry that rings from one boundary of the republic to the opposite, whose tones sound the death-knell of dishonest officials then in power, and whose echoes make the great virtuous pulse of the nation throb with just anger at the indignity which has been forced upon it, and for a time the cloven hoof of Rapacity disappears; but the affairs of Government are too extensive and unwieldy for the eye of Vigilance, and corruptions begin to creep in as reform is forgotten, and soon a new revolution is demanded and obtained, only to follow in the beaten track of its predecessor; and thus they continue after each other like the motion of a wheel, one reform differing from another only in point of time. And this is the life for which young men of talent and moral integrity will sacrifice the pleasures and amenites of home, the religious principles that pious parents have engraven on their hearts, and the certain and steady advancement which attend legitimate trades and professions; they must sacrifice these and stifle the voice of conscience ere they can hope for advancement in the pursuit of their choice. It is not worth the sacrifice, even if you were certain of reaching the highest position to which it can elevate you. Oh, young man! if such be your ambition, abandon it. You are capable of better things. Let the altar whereon you sacrifice the best years of your life be a more worthy one. Follow no pursuit in which you must bind down conscience and forfeit your self-respect. Remember the path is abandoned by respectable men, and strewn with wrecks, the most pitiful and sad, of men who were weak enough to set out in the sunny, delusive atmosphere of hope; but when they discovered whither they were going they were not base enough to proceed, and they could not retrace their steps; they had forfeited their self-respect, lost their faith, sacrificed the approving smile of God, and their ruin was complete. There is nothing in the whole round world so sad to contemplate as a life thus thrown away, and there are multitudes of instances in the world’s history every day. You wish to be a great man, you wish to build the ladder with which you may mount to the pure sunlight above the clouds, where your voice can be heard and your form seen, and your name carried on the breezes till it is heard in every household on the earth; and it is a worthy ambition, but oh! beware of the means you use. If you accept a base and dishonorable agent to advance your cause, remember you do it at the expense of your own self-respect, and the time will come when you will most poignantly regret the folly of your choice. If you feel that you are called upon to exercise your talents as a lawyer, do not forget that you must master the science of jurisprudence as well as the petty details of office drudgery. The world is thronged with practitioners, but jurisprudence is sadly in need of able exponents. You can become a great man in this profession if you wish, but you must work for it— and wait. That reply of one of America’s great lawyers— when asked if the profession were not crowded, he answered: “Yes, down below, but there is plenty, of room up above ”—was enough to give him an honorable place in history. It is a grand truth, applicable now. as then, and
24	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
will ever continue so long as the superficial education, so prevalent now, is continued. While you remain in the lower positions of the profession you will find the avenues thronged with the cormorants and shysters, who give such an unhealthy odor to a noble profession; butas you advance the crowd gradually diminishes until at last you will find ample room and very little company.	T. D.
Is the Catholic Church Hostile to the Spread of
■	Education?
A few days since, the Very Rev. Superiors and professors, with the students of the Roman University, were received in audience at the Vatican by his Holiness Leo XIII. They were presented to the Holy Father by his Eminence Cardinal di Pietro, Camerlengo to the Sovereign Pontiff and Chancellor of the Roman University. There was a very large assemblage in the Hall of Audience, and the Pope appeared in excellent health. An address to his Holiness was read by Monsignor Tizzani, Dean of the Teaching Faculty of the University, and, in replying to it, the Holy Father said as follows: “It has been at all times most gratifying to us to find ourselves in the midst of a body of men distinguished for their virtue and their learning, and devoted to the instruction and the formation of the minds of the young. Whilst expressing to you our pleasure and our satisfaction, we shall add that it is with especial happiness that we have just heard you calling back to remembrance the efficacious protection which the Sovereign Pontiffs have always accorded to the Roman University; you have contrasted, in opposition to calumnious assertions the other way, the indisputable truth that the Roman Pontificate, far from being hostile to science and from checking its onward progress, cherishes it, and seeks to develop and extend it. You have recalled, Right Rev. Dean, the benefits with which our predecessors have loaded the Roman Athenseum, and you have done well in doing so. It may be permitted us for a moment to lift ourselves somewhat higher, and cast a rapid glance at the other Universities of Italy and of Europe, with the object of still further confirming the great truth to which I have alluded. It is easy to see that these universities, thanks to the care of the Roman Pontiffs, who have ever protected) them with every resource at their disposal, have always been a noble arena for the play of the loftiest and most vigorous intellects, as well as a peaceful and splendid refuge for science, and a furnace which kept the flame of knowledge alive, and a light amongst the nations of the earth. And this was so, without a break, so long as the universities were not perverted into centres of political agitation, and were not put upon the fatal road of warfare with Catholic faith. History has written in letters of gold the eminent favors bestowed by the Roman Pontiffs on these institutions. For the present it will suffice for us to recall the celebrated University of the Sorbonne, of Paris, which was in an especial manner favored by the immortal Innocent HI, by Martin IV, and by Honorius IV; the ancient University of Bologna, enriched with precious privileges by Innocent IV, and other Popes; that of Salamanca, confirmed and enlarged by Alexander IV; that of Padua, canonically erected by Urban IV, and specially protected by Urban V; that of Perugia, rendered famous by such scholars as Bartolus and Balbus, and which was the object of special favors from several Pontiffs, amongst others from Clement V, who called it the studium gene
rale; and many others which it would be too tedious to enumerate. And' in truth, it could not be otherwise; for the Church, called by St. Paul “ the pillar and the ground of truth,” consecrated by Jesus Christ to the mission of bearing and sustaining that truth amongst the nations, could not do aught else than cover with its wings those centres of human knowledge in which the noble office of teaching is discharged—protect and watch over them with maternal solicitude. It was natural, therefore, that the Roman Pontiff, when the circumstances of this city permitted it—when interna] disorders were removed, and there were none of those popular tumults which, as you are aware, at times drove them into exile—it was natural, I say, that they should devote all their paternal care to the foundation, the confirming, and the organization of the Roman University, and in such a fashion as that in the complete development of its different faculties, in the excellence and celebrity of its teachers, in the purity and solidity of its doctrine, it should have to yield to no other similar institution in the world. From this beautiful plant precious fruits have been already gathered, and if the times were less wicked than they are for our Holy Church and the Roman Pontificate we might be gathering its fruit even yet more abundantly still. For ourselves, to maintain in vigor the prestige and honor of this University, we would cheerfully make any practical venture, and you, we are sure, would follow us readily in the road marked out for you. Two immortal names have been recently recalled to our memory—Innocent III and Leo X. In presence of such names our soul is penetrated with a profound respect, and we are tempted to speak spontaneously these words :
Tu longe sequere, et vestigia pronus adora.
“ Meanwhile, as far as lies in us in the difficult circumstances in which we are, we shall endeavor not to leave inactive your distinguished talents—those talents which it is meet to show forth in their full light and splendor for the glory and renown of the Roman Pontificate. With these sentiments, and as a pledge of our paternal affection, receive the Apostolic Benediction, which from the depth of our heart we impart to all of you.”
The Madonna of St. Luke.
Did St. Luke practice the art of painting?
This question is certainly not new, but it is one much more difficult to answer than might be supposed; for there are authorities both ancient and modern for and against.
St. Luke was born at Antioch, the capital city of Syria, famous in the East on account of its situation, its commerce, its riches, its numerous population, and its schools which furnished to all Asia so many distinguished masters. It is well known that the Saint made there great progress in his studies, and especially in that of medicine, for the more profound and thorough knowledge of which he travelled through Egypt and Greece.
The preaching of St Paul gained him over to the Gospel, and so attached did he become to the Apostle that he was ever his faithful companion in all his journeys and fatigues. Death alone could separate them. We know from the Apostle * that, once become a Christian, he practiced medicine as often as his new occupation would permit. St. Paul sends to the Colossians the salutations of his physi-
* Epistle to the Coloss., xiv,
THE NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC.
25
cian. Some writers make a distinction between the physician St. Luke, of whom St. Paul speaks, and the writer of the Gospel which bears his name. But this distinction is altogether false. The testimony of the Greek and Latin fathers contradicts this sophism reproduced later by Calvin, Erasmus and Basnage, and always refuted by the most convincing proofs.
We cannot, however, be so positive in regard to the question whether St. Luke was a painter, since, as said before, there are authorities on both sides. Let us see, however, the reasons of those who pronounce in favor of the negative, and examine if they are so clear and strong as to permit no answer.
The first and most serious objection of those who would erase the name of St. Luke from the list of painters, is, according to them, his very condition as a Jew. If he were an Israelite, as some pretend, he could not practice the art of painting, because it was forbidden the Jews under most severe penalties to make or possess images.* Josephus tells us that when Pilate wished to set up in the city of Jerusalem the statues of the Emperor, the people were filled with horror, and begged of him to remove the images and leave intact the laws of their country; and though threatened with death if they did not consent, they persisted in their appeals, and would prefer even death rather than suffer any transgression of the law. And Pilate moved by their firmness yielded to their supplications.
How then could St. Luke, in the midst of such an opposition, undertake to practice painting and produce portraits ?
Again, if St. Luke was a Greek, and came over from paganism to Christianity, he could not have known the Blessed Virgin before she had attained her sixtieth year. In that case he could not have given to his portraits of the Virgin that freshness of color, that air of youth which mark the greater part of the portraits attributed to St. Luke.
It is very easy to answer both these objections. The public practice of painting and the adoration of images were prohibited among the Jews by the Mosaic law, but they were not forbidden to make them and preserve them in particular houses, as was the custom among the ancients, especially the Greeks and Romans. Add to this that at the time when the Mosaic law yielded to Christianity, a great number of the precepts of the law had been changed or had fallen into disuse, and other traditions substituted instead, as our Redeemer on more than one occasion reproached the Scribes and Pharisees. It is very probable that images were kept in particular houses or were bought by Greek painters, among whom we may safely class St. Luke. It is true that several authors have pretended that St. Luke was an Israelite and a disciple of St. John the Baptist, and, what is stranger still, one of the seventy-two disciples of Jesus Christ. But, supported by the most weighty authorities, we believe that he passed directly from paganism to Christianity. St. Luke, then, could have been one of those Greeks who practiced the noble art of painting. And what better use could he have made of his talent than to employ it in retracing the pure, angelic form of the Mother of God ? According to a pious tradition, the Christians of that time were most eager to see the countenance of the Blessed Virgin, and came from far-distant countries to hear the sacred words pronounced by her lips. Could not St. Luke then have known, too, the Virgin of Nazareth ?	•
In regard to the objection taken from the discrepancy
* Exodus, xv, v.
between the age of the Blessed Virgin and the air of youth in the madonnas of St. Luke, we reply: 1st, Is it impossible to suppose that St. Luke procured among the Jews a portrait representing Mary at a less advanced age than when he knew her? 2d, Granting that he knew the Blessed Virgin only in her old age, might he not, as painters ordinarily do, have given to his portraits a younger appearance and greater freshness without on that account misrepresenting his model ? Besides, how often are not women seen, especially among the unmarried, who preserve to a very advanced age the freshness of youth ? Would it be anything astonishing then if the Blessed Virgin herself had in her old age preserved a youthful freshness in her immaculate flesh, even making abstraction of the consideration that to the thousand supernatural privileges with which God enriched her He might have added that of which we speak ?
Other authors oppose to us the authority of St Augustine, who, in his treatise on the Trinity, affirms that it was not certainly known what were the features of the Blessed Virgin. Others too add that before the Council of Ephesus, in the fifth century, there were no portraits of Mary, or if there were they did not represent the Divine Child in the arms of His Mother, as the paintings attributed to St. Luke. In the first place, the Bishop of Hippo does not speak of portraits, but only of the true physiognomy of the Blessed Virgin. His object was simply to prove that even though we could not show the true features of Mary it does not follow as a consequence that she was not the Mother df God, just as ignorance of the true traits and appearance of John the Baptist, Lazarus, or the Apostles would be no reason to deny the existence of these personages.
The second assertion is entirely false, and contradicted by both ancient and modern writers. It is sufficient to mention among others Bosio, Amighi, Boldeth, Trombelli, and Marchi, of the Society of Jesus. The latter, in the frontispiece of his work on Christian monuments has placed a very ancient portrait of Mary found in the catacombs of the first ages.	J. A.
Scientific Notes.
—Fifty-one metals are known to exist, thirty of which have been discovered within the present century. Four hundred years ago but seven were known.
—A resident of Sacramento, Cal., has a breadfruit tree in full bearing. The fruit averages a length of four inches, and is pear-shaped, with a flavor like that of a cantaloupe.
—Fireworks and fire signals were in use in Japan and China centuries ago, and YokohamaJias a pyrotechnist today in the person of Hirayama Ginta who is likely to become world-famous.
—Everybody has heard of Glauber’s salts, but-how many know whether Glauber is the name of a place or a man ? He was a famous chemist of Amsterdam in the sixteenth century, who invented the peculiar preparation bearing his name.
—Prof. Leviteux, a Pole of Warsaw, has discovered a method of taking entire clay casts of the living body without the slightest injury. Hitherto such could only be had of corpses, and hence the new discovery promises to be extremely advantageous to sculptors.
—Experiments have been made with the electric light in two of the forts round Metz to ascertain whether, in case of siege, the nightly operations of the enemy could be watched and counteracted. The experiments are to be continued, and the telephone is also to be tried in field operations.
—One of the curiosities of the Paris Exposition is to be the smallest book that was ever printed in any language—
4
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a marvel of typography. It is a microscopic copy of Dante’s “Divina Commedia,” printed in Padua, bound in red velvet and silver, and so small that it may by worn hanging from the watch-chain. A microscope is needed to read it.
—The most important geological discovery of the year has been made by Prof. Snow, of the Kansas University scientific expedition, about 300 miles east of Denver. It consisted of a giant reptile, or Saurian, so perfectly preserved as to exhibit a portion of the hide. Previously geologists had found hundreds of specimens of these Saurians with the bones alone remaining, so that this discovery of the outer skin is new to science.
—Another of the minor planets discovered by Prof. Peters, at Clinton, N. Y., brings up their whole number to 188, nine of which have been found since the beginning of the year, and sixteen during the.last eleven months. Nos. 173,177, and 178, have been named Ino, Irma, and Belisana, while three of last year’s planets are still without names. Of the nine planets found since the beginning of the present year, No. 180, discovered by Perrotin at Toulouse on Jan. 29, has received the name Garumna; No. 181, discovered by Cottenot at Marseilles on Feb. 2, the name Eucharis. Of the three planets, No. 182, 183, and 184, found by Palisa at Pola in February, only the last has yet got a name, Dejopeja.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Bayard Taylor’s “ Prince Deucalion,” a drama in verse, will issue from the press during the coming month.
—The London World believes that, next to Dr. Newman, the greatest living master of the English language is John Ruskin.
—Messrs. C. Kegan, Paul & Co. will shortly publish a novel of Irish Life by a daughter of the late Wm. Smith O’Brien.
—The volume of Punch cartoons illustrating the political career of Lord Beaconsfield has already reached a sale of 60,000 copies.
—Theodore Thomas has accepted the directorship of the New Cincinnati College of Music. He takes his large musical library with him to that city.
—“ Bombay to the Bosphorus ” is the title of a narrative of a thousand miles’ ride through Asiatic Turkey, by Mr. Grattan Greary, editor of the Times of India.
—Raphael’s celebrated painting of The Virgin with the candlesticks was recently sold at the auction at the Novar Gallery at London for the price of 500,100 francs (about §100,000). ■
—Messrs. Lynch, Cole & Meehan, of New York, have published “ The First Irish Book,” at the request of the Society for the Preservation of the Irish Language. It is designed for the use of Irish classes in America.
—“The Franciscan Martyrs in England ” is the title of a book which Mrs. Hope has written, and tells what the members of the Fanciscan Order have done and suffered in England since 1220, when they were- introduced into that country.
—Mr. P. O’Shea, of New York, has published an edition in two volumes ot Rodriguez’s “ Christian Perfection.” It has been prepared for general use, and, consequently, those parts which treated of the conduct and duties of Religious have been omitted.
—Prof. Skeat has undertaken an etymological dictionary of the English language, illustrated by a few selected quotations approximately illustraing the period of introduction of the various words into the language. It will take about three more years to complete the work.
—Mr. W; W. Corcoran, of Washington, has added to his many generous bequests to the University of Virginia one of §50,000 to endow a new chair of Natural History. Mr. Corcoran is an alumnus of Georgetown College. Why does he not remember his Alma Mater ?
—The memoirs of M. Thiers, which have been prepared
under the supervision of Mme. Thiers, are announced to appear in November. They are expected to contain many interesting revelations respecting the men who have been prominent in France during the past eight years.
—M. Nandet, the author of a History of Etienne Marcel, and formerly Professor of Latin at the College de France, has just died, aged 91. He is believed to have been the oldest member of the Institute. A French Hebraist, the Abbe Auguste Latouche, has also just died at the age of 95.
—The fifth edition of Bishop Ryan’s Lecture on “ What Catholics do not believe,” is now published. The sale has reached nearly seven thousand copies. The learned prelate has in preparation two other lectures, entitled respectively “ What Catholics do believe ” and “ What Protestants do not believe.”
—The oratorio “Christus,’’ by Herr Kiel, was a great success at the third Silesian Musical Festival held at Gor-litz. There was also a new symphony by Count Hochberg, who composes under the name of Z. H. Franz. Handel’s “Judas Maccabmus” was the great attraction of the second Schleswig-Holstein Festival celebrated at Kiel.
—In the course of the work of demolition and excavation near the Ponte Sisto, in Rome, for the formation of an embankment on the Tiber, the workmen, a few days since, disclosed a portion of a colossal bronze statue buried beneath a large mass of material. Whether the statue is entire, or whether what has been found is only a fragment, cannot be ascertained untill the superincumbent mass has been removed.
—A great impression has been produced in Halle by the first performance of an ochestra symphony in B Minor, from the pen of Mdlle. Emelie Mayer. The work is said to bear evidence of original power and thoroughly musician-like workmanship; and the fact is the more worthy of notice since the successful competition of lady composers with the opposite sex in the higher spheres of the art, remains at present but an isolated achievement.
—The following is an extract from a letter of the Hon. and Rt. Rev. Mgr. Stonor, Domestic Prelate of His Holiness Pope Leo XIII: “I have just seen the Holy Father, and he sends his special blessing to Miss Stewart, and hopes that she may have every success with her writings.” We hear that Miss Stewart has for some time been engaged on a Life of John Fisher, Bishop of Rochester. The volume will contain three portraits, comprising that of the Bishop, Margaret Beaufort, Countess of Richmond, and Queen Catharine of Arragon.
—The daily records of an ancient African traveller who lived in the XIVth century have recently been discovered by Don Marcos Ximenez de la Espada, at Madrid. The records state that a certain missionary, whose name is not given, had made extensive journeys in Africa between the years 1320 and 1330. His travels were not confined to the western coast, to the Sierra Leone and thence to Dahomey, but it is also said that from the mouth of the Senegal the intrepid missionary had traversed the entire continent, visiting the Sudan tribes, and after having -reached Dongola, where he took ship on the Nile, he finished the circuit at Damietta, at the mouth of that river.
—A meeting of the Stockholders of the College of Music of Cincinnati was recently held, at which were present Messrs. Joseph Longworth, George K. Shoenberger, David Sinton, John Shillito, and others. The following Board of Directors was elected: R. R. Springer, John Shillito, Peter Rudolf Neff, Jacob Burnet, Jr., and George Ward Nichols. At a subsequent meeting of the Board of Directors, Mr. Nichols was chosen President, Mr. Neff, Treasurer, Mr. Burnet, Secretary. In accordance with the suggestions of Mr. Theodore Thomas, Muical Director of the College, the Course will be opened the coming fall. Those seeking information will please apply to J. Burnet, Jr., Secretary, No. 81 West Third Street, Cincinnati, O.
—The celebrated red marble used by the Romans in adorning their temples has been brought to light again. Mr. Delmonte, a citizen of Oran, Algeria (which was called by the Romans Mauritania) has discovered the old quarries in the Kleber mountains, which for ages lay hidden be-
r*-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
27-
neath the soil. Mr. Delmonte also found the transparent onyx of Tekbalet, and obtained the privilege of mining these quarries by experienced workmen whom he had engaged in Italy. Some blocks of marble having the same -matchless reddish tint as the antiques are now to be seen at the Paris Exposition. Several large columns for the portal of the Cathedral of Marseilles are being prepared in the quarries. Besides the foregoing, Mr. Delmonte has also discovered an excellent kind of pink-colored marble.
—A volume of American poetry, comprising four hundred pages, and selected from one hundred poets who lived between 1776 and 1876, has made its appearance in London. The Academy welcomes it as a “considerable boon to miscellaneous readers of poetry. They will learn here—with more approach to completeness than from any other readily accessible source—what the last century of American poetry consists of.” A portrait of Walt Whitman forms the frontispiece. There are ten poems by Bryant, one by Halleck, seven by Emerson, ten by Longfellow, ten by Whittier, five by Holmes, four by Poe (“ not including,” says the The Academy, “his masterpiece, ‘For Annie’”), eleven by Lowell, two by Thoreau, eight by Whitman, five by Bayard Taylor, three by Bret Harte, four by Stedman, and one by Joaquin Miller.
—Three or four years ago one of the New York publishers engaged the services of William Cullen Bryant and Evert A. Duyckinck as editors of a new edition of Shaks-peare. Mr. Duyckinck prepared himself for the heavy-part of the work by procuring two copies of an approved edition of the plays, cutting the leaves apart, and pasting on detached sheets of blank paper each successive page of the volumes. He then provided himself with a dozen or more of the most approved editions of Shakspeare, including two variorums and the folio of 1623. Thus provided and thus surrounded, he began with the “ Tempest,” and went over his pasted and detached pages line by line, comparing the text on his desk with all the others, and making such changes as seemed to him to be the best authorized and accredited. He sent those corrected and annotated sheets to Mr. Bryant in installments of forty or fifty pages, received them back with Mr. Bryant’s comments and approval or disapproval, as the case might be, and he then finished them for the publisher. In this way and in the course of eighteen months the work was completed, and it was all delivered to the publishers something more than a year ago. When it is to be published is not yet announced.
—August 16th a proposal was sent from Mr. R. R. Springer and a number of-other prominent citizens of Cincinnati to Theodore Thomas, inviting that gentleman to make his home in their city and take the musical directorship of the new College of Music. It is proposed to place this College on a footing with the best of the kind in Europe, to employ in it first-class professors, to organize a full orchestra and possess a school for orchestra and, chorus, and to give concerts. Cincinnati possesses superior advantages for the success of the project in the new Music Hall, where the College would be held, the large organ, and a community who evidently appreciate good music. Mr. Thomas, appreciating these advantages of location, etc., and the benefits likely to be derived from -the proposed College, has accepted the proposal, and expresses his willingness to begin the work at once. In his answer he says: “ This project is a step in the right direction, and Cincin--nati is the right place in which to begin. We want concentration of professional talent, methodical training such as we have in other branches of education and a musical atmosphere. The formation of a College, such as you propose, realizes one of my most cherished hopes, and I shall work hard to make it superior in all branches of musical education.”
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from Messrs. Hickey & Co., 11 Barclay St., New York, the publishers of the Vatican Library, the 12th number of that series, “ A Double Sacrifice, and Other Tales.” The publishers deserve well of the Catholic public in their endeavors to supply it with good reading at a moderate price.
—Received.—A History of the United States of
America. For the Use of Scholars. By John G-. Hassard, Author of “Life of Archbishop Hughes,” “Life of Pius IX,” etc. With an introduction by the Right Rev. J. L. Spalding, D. D., Bishop of Peoria. Published by the , Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay street, New । York. 1878.
; The Joint Venture: A Tale in Two Lands. By E. A. Fitzsimon. New York: James Sheehy, Publisher, 33 Bar* clay St. 1878.
We have not had time to examine this book thoroughly, but from a slight perusal of it we do not find anything injurious in it. The story is laid partly in Ireland and partly in the United States.
— Our Young Folk's Magazine keeps up the high repute in which from the first it was held by young folks everywhere, the consequence of which is that it enjoys a high run of prosperity. The articles are, generally, short, varied, and interesting, the illustrations giving them additional interest in the eyes of the young. There are prose, poetry, instructive and amusing incidents, a puzzle-drawer, and a chapter on magic. Our Young Folks is published monthly by the Rev. Thomas Scully, Boston, Mass.
—We have received the first number of Ditsoris & Cods Musical Record, published every Saturday at Boston, Mass. To judge from this number, the Record will take its place among the foremost of our musical journals. The articles are written with ability, themusical news selected with care, and the music is excellent. We feel confident that-with the well-known enterprise of the publishers the Record will increase in excellence each week. The terms are §2 a year. Address, Mnsical Record, care Oliver Ditson & Co., Boston, Mass.
Memorial of Thomas Ewing of Ohio. New York: The
Catholic Publication Society. 1878.
The late Hon. Thomas Ewing, of Ohio, was one of the foremost jurists of the country. Rising by force of his own exertions, he became one of the leaders of the national bar. But not alone was he distinguished as a lawyer: the purity of his private life was beyond reproach, and in his long political career, no matter how much men might differ from him in opinion, his character remained unsullied. His was a life which it should be the aim of all young men to imitate, for in it they can see how obstacles may be overcome by study and perseverance and an honest ambition rewarded.
—It is said that a Troy inventor will shortly take out a patent for a cataphone. By means of wires stretched along back-yard fences and house-tops he conveys, with the aid of some simple machinery, all concatenated caterwauls into an air-tight barrel. By another simple contrivance, the sound in the barrel can be compressed, and can be used in quantities for fire and burglar alarms. The inventor predicts that he will give the boys something that will make Rome howl, in place of dangerous fire-crackers for Fo.urth-of-July celebrations. For blasting rocks he says it is just the thing.
’—The American matron in Westminster Abbey moves along corridors and over the bones of the mighty departed in a state of badly-suppressed dismay. Used to walking reverently around the grave of even the humblest mortality, to see herself and brood treading upon the most majestic of tombs is more to her than paganism. On a second tour of the Abbey I was in the train of such a dame—a fairly-read, intelligent lady, brimful of reverence, one who at home worships her minister and pays regular respectful Sunday evening visits to the local cemetery. - She will never forget her jaunt through Westminster. Her running fire of horror came out in undertones in this wise.- “ Anna, dear, you are standing right on Ben Johnson.” “James, my son, don’t straddle over Macaulay in that heathen fashion.” “ Mr. Jones, you ought to be ashamed to step on poor Charles Dickens.” “ Mercy on me, here I am walking across Dryden,” and the miserable woman sat square down on a bench above the bones of the first Archbishop of Canterbury, and gave up trying to be even half-way respectful in a minster whose every passing stone is a slab covering somebody who once made the world wonder or tremble.—Landon Letter in Chicago Tribune.
28	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC’.
|aiiu
• Notre Dame, September 14, 1S78.
. The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Pilgrimage.
A week from to-morrow, September 22d, the Feast of the Seven Dolors, will take place the third annual pilgrimage of the Catholics of Mishawaka to the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame, Ind. If it be as largely attended as last year, the procession, including those who will join it from Lowell and South Bend, will number some fifteen hundred souls. We have every reason for believing that in point of numbers it will exceed those of past years, for unless we have been misinformed there will be quite a number of people from Laporte to take part in it. The procession will form in the morning at Mishawaka, and, reciting the Rosary and other prayers, walk the four miles to Notre Dame, where they are expected to arrive at ten o’clock. Solemn High Mass will be sung by the Rev. A B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, the deacon and subdeacon being taken from the College. The sermon will be preached by Rev. John Oechtering, of Laporte. A Mass from the repertory of the American Cecilian Society will be sung by the choir of St. Joseph’s Church, Mishawaka; and as this choir has the reputation of being one of the best in the State, we have reason to expect excellent music. During the day the pilgrims will visit the various shrines about Notre Dame, such as the Chapel of Our Lady of the Angels, of the Immaculate Conception, Loretto, the Grotto of Lourdes, the Calvary, etc., and in the afternoon will attend Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, before which a sermon will be preached. Doubtless this pilgrimage will be fraught with many blessings to all who take part in it.
Pilgrimages have been made in all ages and among all nations. In the Old Testament we read that, by command of God, Abraham made a pilgrimage of three days to offer up his holocaust, and that the Jews at stated times made pilgrimages to Bethel, which place Jacob had sanctified. Again we read that by command of Moses the Jews made a
pilgrimage three times a year to the Ark of the Covenant, and that afterwards all were commanded to go up to the temple at Jerusalem. In these pilgrimages Christ Himself took part, as we read in St. Luke. Again in the New Testament we are told of how the Apostles and pious women visited the Sepulchre of Christ, and how St. Paul hastened to Jerusalem to celebrate the Feast of Pentecost. And the pious custom of visiting holy places, such as Jerusalem, the graves of the martyrs, etc., has always received the sanction of the Church.
The pilgrimage to-morrow week, then, is to be made in imitation of this pious practice of the Jews and early Christians, and, if it be made with the right spirit, will be beneficial to all who make it.
Our Medals of Honor.
The gold medals commonly known as First Honors, and given at the Commencement exercises as a testimonial of previous satisfactory behavior, have always been objects of' laudable ambition among our students here. Time was when only one medal of honor was given, and that to a student of the Senior Department, whose name was also inscribed in letters of gold on the refectory wall. A tablet may be seen there still, in what is now the Junior refectory, on the east side of the north door, bearing names and dates for a period of 25 years, ending with 1868. Modesty forbids our calling public attention to the distinguished character of the names that appear here, or to the brilliancy of the subsequent career of each. With 1869, the year of Silver Jubilee, the practice of giving medals to all whose conduct was absolutely unobjectionable was begun, and has thenceforth been continued, thereby relieving the faculty from the interminable debates which resulted from the attempt to choose one among a number of the equally deserving. The customs which are now observed in the awarding of First Honors may be briefly stated as follows:
A First Honor requires an attendance of at least four sessions, of which the last two must'be consecutive.
A First Honor is not usually given to any student who has not succeeded in obtaining a second honor the previous year.
Three objections, from any three members of the general faculty, are sufficient to defeat any candidate for First honors.
Graduates of all the courses except the Commercial receive in their diplomas a testimonial that includes all minor honors. Hence the First Honor is not in future to be added to the diploma.
It will be seen that it is no easy matter to obtain a First Honor at Notre Dame; for as it is the aim of the faculty to make this as high a reward as possible, the objections are made with the most conscientious scrupulosity. Very few there are who pass absolutely blameless beneath the scan of thirty or forty men of severe virtue and exalted sense of duty, such as now compose our faculty.
But difficult as it appears, it is not so in its own nature. There is nothing laborious in keeping the College rules, since they are made simply with a view to the well-being, moral, intellectual, and physical, of the student. And if it seem irksome at first, as is natural after the relaxations of vacation, a few days of steady observance will smooth the way, and in a week or so the student will find himself floating onward with the stream in unconscious ease and undisturbed serenity. We will close by hoping not only
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
29
that the recipients of Second Honors last June may all receive First Honors next Commencement, but even that the excellent behavior of others may make such a favorable impression on the faculty as to induce then to waive the restrictive clause of their rules. As for the new students, they will all try for second honors as a matter of course, and all should remember that a few years spent at college would be well employed if nothing more was learned than to converse with the dignity and propriety of gentlemen.
Rev. John H. McManus.
Amongst the recent heroic victims of the yellow fever was the Rev. John H. McManus of Vicksburg. Like a faithful shepherd, he died as he had lived, in the midst of his flock. Father McManus is remembered as one of the most talented and virtuous students that ever sojourned within the walls of Notre Dame. In him were most perfectly united religious devotion and love of learning. Leaving Notre Dame in 1863 he completed his studies in philosophy and theology in Belgium, at the Seminary of Louvain, where in 1869 he was ordained priest for the diocese of Natchez.
Father McManus remained three years in Columbus, Miss., in care of an extensive mission, preaching the Word, administering the Sacraments, and building churches in a region having but a scattered Catholic population. From this field of toil he was transferred to the more important charge of the city of Vicksburg, where he continued the same life of unceasing labor. During the present pestilence his life was literally spent for his people, until, when he was no longer able to go about amongst them, to cheer the living and console the dying, he at length lay down himself to die, exhausted no less by his toils than by the fever which consumed him. What more need be said ? Receiving the last consolations of religion from the hands of his friend and Bishop, the saintly Dr. Elder (himself now at death’s door), he passed to receive the sentence, Well done, thou faithful servant! enter thou intothe joy of the Lord!
Notre Dame has sent forth many a noble heart into the battle of life: merchants and mechanics, physicians, lawyers and tillers of the soil, soldiers and priests, but no one who has added a brighter halo of glory to her crown than the martyrs priest whose life and death we here commemorate.
There are the heroes that our luxurious age stands so much in need of, and it was perhaps necessary that this fearful plague should come upon the American people in order to exhibit before our eyes those examples of heroic self-devotion and charity. Let the students of Notre Dame while praying for the soul of their brother rejoice that they can claim as their own sb great and heroic a spirit. To each of us the example of the Rev. John H. McManus seems to call out, Go and do thou likewise!
The University of Notre Dame.
From the Chicago Times.
Among the various educational establishments .which overspread those vast regions of the Northwest of which Chicago is the metropolis, few present the same attractions to the intellectual visitor as does that of Notre Dame, near South Bend, Ind. South Bend is but a few hours’ ride from Chicago, on the line of the Lake Shore and Michigan
Southern railway. A ride of two miles from the station brings the visitor to the gates of the object of his pilgrimage, the alma mater of many of Chicago’s hopeful sons. The college buildings form the leading feature in the landscape for more than a mile before they are reached. In the centre is the main building, square and massive, and built to a greater height than one would believe necessary in a locality where land is not sold by the foot but by the acre. Its height, however, affords to those who ascend the little dome that crowns it an extensive view of the surrounding country, stretching over the valley of the St. Joseph River, and bounded northward by the forest-covered hills of Michigan. To the right of the principal building, as you approach it by the main avenue, stands the house known as Washington Hall, where the pupils of Prof. J. A. Lyons, who has for many years filled the chair of elocution at Notre Dame, are accustomed on the public festivals to entertain large audiences of their fellow-students and invited guests with choice selections from the best dramatic writers and with original efforts in the varied form of essay, oration, poem, and debate. Many a person now prominent as a public speaker, either in pulpit, forum or legislative assembly, can trace his success to the practice acquired on the boards of its ample stage. Here also take place the distribution of medals and the awarding of diplomas at the annual commencement exercises. On the same side, but further north, is the music hall, devoted to the cultivation of the most ennobling of the liberal arts. On the lefthand side of the principal line of approach stands the church, a massive pile, unfinished, but yet replete with objects of interest. Its. sanctuary is enriched with works of art in gold and silver and precious gems such as no other church in the west of America possesses. The magnificent high altar was on exhibition at the Centennial on its way here from Paris, nor are the accessories, lamps, candelabra, chalices, patines, ciboria, and monstrances out of keeping with it. - But the great charm of the interior are the frescoes and other paintings by Gre-gori, a work of four years. Hours might be passed in their contemplation, and yet one-half of their beauty remain unnoticed. A dim light pervades the edifice, the glare of the sunbeams being modified by the richly stained glasses through which they pass. In the tower of this church hangs the largest bell at present in the United States, a monster of seven tons weight. The picturesque demesne surrounding the University is dotted with objects of interest to the pious Catholic. Between the lakes to the northwest of the College stands the Chapel of the Portiuncula, celebrated in the annals of the Franciscan Order. A facsimile of the Holy Sepulchre gives interest to another quarter of the grounds, and elsewhere are found life-size crucifixes with the attendant figures of St. Mary and St. John, forest shrines of St. Joseph, St. Aloysius, and other well-known patron saints, grottoes memorial of that at Lourdes, etc. North of the church is the unpretentious house where dwells Very Rev. Edward Sorin, the founder of Notre Dame, and for many years President of the University, until his elevation to the Superior Generalship of the Congregation of the Holy Cross obliged him to resign. The present President, Very Rev. Wm. Corby, has conducted affairs at Notre Dame through her years of greatest prosperity, and is well known throughout the United States and the adjacent Dominion. Other buildings interesting to the visitor are Phelan Hall, devoted to lectures and scientific experiments, adjacent to which is the chemi
30.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cal laboratory; the printing-office, whence issue two periodicals, The Ave Maria, a Catholic journal published weekly and having a wider circulation, than any other of its kind in the United States, and The Notre Dame Scholastic, a students’ paper; the Professed House and Novitiate, two buildings about a quarter of a mile distant, each charmingly situated on the shores of the upper lake; the Manual Labor School, conducted by the Brotherhood of the Holy Cross, and the farm-house and stock-yards, the centre of sixteen hundred acres of land immediately surrounding the College, tilled by the industry of the same community, while at a distance of about seven miles to the northeast lies another farm of fourteen hundred acres, chiefly used for grazing, whence milk, butter, and butchers’ meat are daily brought for the supply of the University. A mile away to the west, on the St. Joseph River, loom up the buildings of St. Mary’s Academy.
Notre Dame has risen to eminence with the city of Chicago—it has progressed with Chicago’s progress—mourned at the catastrophe that temporarily desolated her, and rejoiced at her restoration. It has ever formed a safe retreat where the flower of her youth, removed from the dangers which a large city is necessarily prone to furnish, can fit themselves for the brilliant career which metropolitan life offers to intellectual cultivation, regulated by self-restraint. Science, virtue, and religion here make their salutary impressions on the plastic mind of youth. Studious application here finds no distractions to embarrass its steady onward flow. Patriotism and the spirit of progress are fostered and directed to their noble ends.
The college this summer publishes her thirty-fourth Catalogue, showing that the pressure of hard times has not prevented her patrons from appreciating the advantages to their children which she has constantly afforded. A still longer list of names is expected for the coming year.
Personal.
—P. Dechant, of ’78, is living at Franklin, Ohio.
—Daniel E. Maloney, of ’74, is practicing law at Elgin, DI.
—	JohmG. Ewing, of’78, is studying law at Lancaster, Ohio.
—	Thos. J. Ewing, of ’69, visited Notre Dame last Wednesday.
—	John Coleman, of ’77, remains at Notre Dame this year also.
—	Dr. Charles J. Lundy, of ’72, is practicing medicine in Detroit, Mich.
—	We were pleased to see Rev. Father Paul Gillin here this last week.
—Rev. Peter Lauth arrived here from Watertown, Wis., on Wednesday last.
—	Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C, has offered himself to assist the yellow-fever sufferers in the South.
—	Edward D. Murray (Commercial, of’57,) is in business at No. 921 Cottage Grove Avenue, Chicago, Ill.
—	Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C. S. C., is Professor of Natural Sciences at St. Laurent’s College, near Montreal.
—	Joseph P. McHugh, of ’78, is reading law with his brother, John F. McHugh, of ’72, at Lafayette, Ind.
—	John Prudhomme (Commercial, of ’78,) is telegraph, operator at Cumpte, Natchitoches county, Louisiana.
—	Thos. Finnegan (CommerciaHof ’72.) is with the firm of Kellogg & Barrett, 10 and 12 Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
—	Rev. J. M. Toohey preached on the 8’h of September. We hope to have the pleasure of hearing him frequently.
—	James Graham (Commercial, of ’63,) is with the firm e
of Ramsey & Leigh, agents and dealers in farm and mill machinery, Cleburne, Texas.
—Andrew Mullen (Commercial, of ’73,) is the senior partner in the firm of Mullen Bros. & Co., 347 and 349 Broadway, Milwaukee, Wis.
—Frank C. Ewing (Commercial, of ’78,) is engaged as collector and assistant book-keeper in the Bank of Lancas- ' ter, Ohio (late First National).
—David J. Wile, of ’73, is practicing law at Laporte, Ind. He is in partnership with Judge Osborne and Hon. R. Calkins, the member of Congress from this district.
—Thomas J. Ewing, 'of -’69, has recently reached his home in Lancaster, Ohio, after an absence of ten months in the territories and on the Pacific coast for the benefit of his health, which is now quite established.
—We are pained to announce-the death from yellow fever, at New Orleans, of Mrs. Pennington, the mother of E. J. Pennington, who attended class here last year. wMr. Pennington has our sincere sympathy in his affliction.*
—Mr. J. R. Gerhart, of the U. > S. Railway Mail Corps, paid us a passing visit last week. If the mail corps be formed of such conscientious men as Mr. Gerhart, and we are not aware of anything to the contrary, the department deserves praise for its selection of employees.
—Rev. John Lauth, for the past two years pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, will leave next week for Watertown, Wis., where he will become assistant to Rev. P. J. Golovin, at St. Bernard’s Church. Rev. Peter Lauth will take charge of St. Patrick’s, South Bend.
—Major Dallas—at present, if we mistake not, post commander at Leaven worth, Kansas—paid Notre Dame a brief visit last week, having accompanied his daughters to St. Mary’s Academy. The Major is‘evidently a person of no ordinary education and accomplishments, and, if report speaks truly, he unites in himself the character of the true American gentleman, the scholar, and the soldier. We had heard of him before, and in a way that gave additional pleasure to our meeting, for which we hope a happy renewal at no distant day.
—Among our late visitors were Rev. A. 0/ Walker, Circleville, Ohio.; Howard Morgan, Trumansburgb, N. Y.; R. Becker, Canton, Iowa; John Casey, Erie, Pa.; E. B. Piekenback, Dubuque, Iowa; F. M. Way, Winchester, Ind.; J. Kurz, Dubuque, Iowa; B.Mergentheim, Chicago; E. A. Field, Belding, Mich.; J. D. Weigel,Rushville, Ind.; E. S. Terry, Rochester, Ind.; Rev. Chas. Brosehlei\ Sandusky, Ohio; H. O. Glade, Chicaco; P. H. Welty, Pekin, Ill.; Jno. Fitzgerald, Pekin, Ill.; F. Gallagher, Cincinnati, Ohio; Jno. Caren, Columbus, Ohio; S. S. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.; E. W. Freeman, Battle Creek, Mich.; Rev. A. B. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Rev. M. Noll, Elkhart, Ind.; C. C. Connolly, Chicago, and many others who did not register.
—The Chicago Times, speaking of the church of the Servites in that city, says: “The edifice has lately undergone a wonderful transformation. Prof. Gregori, whose work in embellishing the beautiful church of Notre Dame, near South Bend, Ind., has attracted general admiration, took pity on the bare and uninviting appearance of the little church and set about transforming it into a shrine of beauty and attractiveness, one worthy of the elevated purposes to which it is consecrated. The aid of Signor Caretti was invoked, and between the two artists it was planned that they would jointly, and as a labor of love, paint in fresco the interior of the little church, Prof. Gregori agreeing to supply the figures, and Caretti the ground details. This they have now fully accomplished, and the artists’ work is exposed to the public gaze. The panels of the ceiling are filled with religious emblems and devices, except only the large centre-piece, which was reserved for a painting of the Assumption by Gregori. This with the groups of angels at either side of the sanctuary,-is the chief part of the Professor’s contribution, Sisrnor Caretti having completed all the rest. The church is really worth seeing, and these frescoes merit a close inspection. When it is understood that the two artists named have given many weeks of laborious art duty gratuitously in order to embellish and adorn the church of their nation, it will be seen that they imitated the ancient renowned
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	311
| masters in working for love of religion and art rather than I	' for gain. Next Sunday, Sept. 15, the Feast of the Seven
I Dolors, is the patronal feast of the Church, on which occasion there will be solemn religious ceremonies there.”
i	Local Items.
;	—The nights are beginning to get cool.
■	—There are very few cases of home sickness.
-	—The College opened on the 3rd of September.
I	—All the classes are now in good running order.
'	—The Boat Club will elect officers in a few days.
! ~	—Every day there are many visitors to Notre Dame
—The library of the Rev. P. P. Cooney is being removed.
—A few social rows have been taken on St. J oseph’s Lake.
—The Minim recreation hall has been greatly enlarged.
—Will the Boat Club have a race on St. Edward’s Day?
:	—The disciples of Isaak Walton have not yet begun work.
—The validore in the Minim yard is undergoing repairs.
—The nimrods made their first excursion last Wednes-
, day-
.	—In the Preparatory Department they evidently mean
work.	-
—The weather was very hot during the first week of the session.
—The baseball clubs will pick their nines the week before us.
—The bi-weekly catechetical conferences will begin Wednesday.
—The Juniors have had a number of fine walks through the country.	•
-	—It is expected that there will be a number of ordinations
r next month.
—The St. Cecilians will give their Entertainment on the 13th of October.
—The walk around St. Joseph’s Lake is extremely delightful just now.
—The Minims return many thanks to B. Bonaventure for favors received.
—The Scholastic will be delivered to students every ' Saturday at half-past three.
—One fourth of the'students in the Junior department this year are named Frank.
—Who will receive the largest number of notes this year? and who the smallest?
—All mail-matter sent to students should be addressed to
“Notre DamePrgl, Indiana.”
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was reorganized last Tuesday evening.
—Racket and hand-ball do not seem to have many favorites among the Juniors this year.
'	—The reading room will this year be in connection with
j the Lemonnier Circulating Library.
|	—We are pleased to hear that a large number of students
I are going to work hard for honors this year.
—There are no Goths, no Huns, no Vandals in the Junior department, but there are plenty of Franks.
—All communications for The Scholastic should be put into the box in the corridor of the College.
—There are three mails received daily at Notre Dame, one at 8 a. m., one at noon, and one at 6.30 p. m.
—The Minims’ patent validore is a great success. It is much patronized by them during the recreations.
—Most of the literary, debating, religious and dramatic associations will be reorganized the coming week.
—There is to be a covered validore erected on the Campus for the use of the members of the Junior department.
—Brother Albert has lately painted a fine picture of the Assumption for the Chapel of Our Lady of the Angels.
—The Scholastic may be had at the students’ office.
All students wishing to subscribe for it can do so there.
—Never neglect to send us all the local and personal items you can;—but, remember, we do not want “gags.”
—So far there has been little or no sickness here. What few cases there were, were generally those of homesickness.	-	•
—There will be, it is expected, a large accession of membership to the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association this year.
—The many flowers in the study-halls were all replanted during the vacation, and the hanging baskets -put in fine order.
—Everyone should understand that no one should deface or injure books taken from the Lemonnier Circulating Library.
—The St. Cecilians will give either “The Hidden Gem,” “The Expiation,” or “ St.Louis in Chains” on the 13th of October.	'
—The St. Cecilians are under obligations to Bro. Law rence for his kindness in taking care of their property during vacation.	•
—Signor Gregori is at work in Chicago on a portrait of Very Rev. A. Granger. He will come to Notre Dame for a number of sittings.
—Some of the students of last year have been somewhat dilatory in returning. It is their own loss, however, for the classes are going on.
—All the money received by the Lemonnier Library Association, no matter from what source it comes, is used in the purchase of new books.
—We need not advise all students to join the Lemonnier Library Association. Everyone is able to see the great benefit to be derived from it. '
—By mistake the account of the exercises.by the Graduating Class on Monday of Commencement-Week was not published in The Scholastic.
—It should be the aim of eveiyone to have his name figure frequently on the Roll of Honor, the list of Class Honors' and the List of Excellence.	-
—Some of the Juniors take strolls around the lake after • supper, accompanied by onp of their prefects, while the remainder engage in field-sports, etc.	'
—The annual retreat of the clergy of the Fort Wayne diocese will take place shortly at Notre Dame.. We have not yet learned the name of the preacher.
—There is a rumor that prizes are to be awarded in the Minim, Junior and Senior departments for politeness this year. Certainly this should be encouraged.
—To-morrow, the Feast of the Holy Name of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Vespers are from page 36 of the Vesperal. Everyone should provide himself with a book.
—All kinds of sports are indulged in by the students on -the Campus during recreation hours. We believe that as much earnestness is displayed in the class as in the games.
—A very fine painting, some four or five hundred years old, has lately been received from Rome. It is a Holy Family. When it has been unboxed it will be hung in the new church.	•
—The two Archconfraternities of the B. V. M. will be conducted this year as last. The organists, however, will be expected to practice an additional number of hymns for the meetings.
—We like to see a student indulge in out-door exercises during recreate n hours. We have heard it remarked that most of the hard students at Notre Dame are good in the games on the Campus. .
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was the first Society in the field this year. As there is plenty of talent among the members it will maintain its old reputation as a live society.	.	3
—The Librarian of the Circulating Library has received/^, a latge number of volumes of books. He expects to receive ■ shottly one hundred volumes, the gift of the late Dr. John^ M. Bigelow, of Detroit, Mich.
• —A prize will be given by The Scholastic on the Wed-
'4?
32
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Treasurer, J. Courtney; Librarian, C. McGrath; Censor, R. McDonald. '
—The College Librarian acknowledges the receipt from Brig. -Gen. A. A. Humphreys, Chief of Engineers, U. S. A., of a number of maps exhibiting some of the operations of the late war: viz., The Atlanta Campaign, in five sheets; operations in front of Atlanta, Chatanooga, Franklin, Knoxville, and marches-of the United States forces under Gen. Sherman.
—On Thursday, Sept. 5th, Solemn Votive High Mass of the Holy Ghost was sung by Very Rev. President Corby with Rev. T. E. Walsh as deacon, Rev. C. Kelly as subdeacon, and Mr. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., as master of ceremonies. Very Rev. President Corby preached to the students on the manner in which their time should be employed during the coming scholastic year.
—The Juniors opened the field-sports of the season on last Wednesday by a closely contested game of foot-ball. J. Nelson and T. McGrath, two Chicago boys, were chosen as captains of. the two contending clubs. Nelson’s club came out victorious after a struggle of 45 minutes. We noticed that quite a number of the new comers handle their feet well, and did good work for their respective sides.
—This year public Entertainments will be given by societies as follows: the St. Cecilians, on the 13:h of October and the 31st of May; the Thespians, on the 22d of February and during Commencement-Week; the Philopa-fridns, on the 5tfi of January, and the Columbians, on the H7th of March. There may be some private Entertainments given during the year, to which the public will not be invited.
—We are glad to announce that Mr. E. Condon, of 67 Washington Street, South Bend, has consented to take charge of the tonsorial operations at the College on Wednesdays hereafter. Mr. Condon is, it would seem, judging from hearsay, and the popularity obtained by him in South Bend during the short time he has been there—an A No. 1 workman in his line, and we congratulate the students that his services are specially for them.
—On the weekly Roll of Honor, published in The Scholastic, are the names of those who, by their conduct, have given satisfaction to all the prefects and professors. On the roll of Class-Honors, to appear regularly in a few weeks, will be the names of those who have given satisfaction in their classes for one month. On the List of Excellence will be the names of those who have been first in the monthly competitions. Every student should endeavor to have his name figure on these lists as often as possible.
—We trust that everyone possessing a good voice will take part in the singing in the church. It is in order that all gifted with good voices may use them in singing the praises of God that congregational singing has been introduced at Notre Dame, and we hope that all will make use of the opportunity afforded them. Let no one be prevailed upon by mock-modesty to refrain from joining in 'the singing. We will, as heretofore, continue to publish the Mass and Vespers sung on Sundays and holydays. Tomorrow the Alissa de Angdis will be sung. All desiring Vesperals and Kyriales can procure them at the students’ office.
—A friend of ours, who has lately visited the College of St. Laurent, near Montreal, Canada, gives a most favorable account of that flourishing institution. Under the presidency of the genial and wholesouled Rev. L. Geoffrion it cannot but prosper. We hope that the Rev. gentleman may find it convenient to visit us soon. The numerous friends he made here some years ago will extend to him every welcome. We are glad to learn that Rev. J. C- Carrier, so long and favorably known here, is in the best of health, and has in charge the scientific studies at St. Laurent. The College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Cote des Neiges. near Montreal, which serves as a preparatory college to St. Laurent, is also flourishing under the able management of the enlightened and judicious Father Gastineau. By the way, our friends at St. Laurent ought to be able to send us a long subscription list.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, one of the oldest and best of the Societies at Notre Dame, is at the same time a debating, dramatic and musical Association,
nesday before Christmas Day to the member of the Junior department whose name appears the greatest number of times from now to the holidays.
—A game of foot-ball was played on the Sth inst. between two picked nines of Juniors and Minims. The game resulted in the score of 8 to 9 in favor of Bloom’s nine. Mr. Bulger of the Atlantics kindly acted as umpire.
—Our brave little college contemporary The Notre Dame Scholastic enters upon its Twelfth Volume. We wish it twelve times twelve of usefulness and prosperity; some one else can take up the wish at that time.—Catholic Universe.	*
—Autumn man advertise ?—Homs Journal.
Yes, or Fall below the mark in business.—Catholic Columbian.
Indeed all business men should be advertisers. However, Summer not.
—Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, Ind., intends sending a . large number of volumes to the Lemonnier Circulating Library. They will arrive at Notre Dame in the course of a week or two. The Librarian returns thanks to him and to other friends who have donated works.
—We trust that there will be any number of literary communications dropped into The Scholastic box in the corridor of the College, near the Senior Study-hall. The columns of The Scholastic are open to all having the ability to write and wishing to make use of them.
—Students from Southern Indiana and Kentucky should take the I. P. & C. R. R. when coming to Notre Dame. It is an excellent road, and has lately put on a number of fine sleepers on the road. Mr. F. P. Wade, the general passenger agent, Indianapolis, is a most estimable gentleman.
—Lectures will be delivered the coming year in Phelan / Hall by Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh, x Kelly, Toohey, O’Connell and Zahm; Profs. Howard, Stace, Tong and Schnurrer. The subjects will be announced from time to time in The Scholastic.
—Twenty bound volumes ol The Scholastic for 1877-8 will be given as premiums next June. The Scholastic made the most sought for premium that bad been given at the last Commencement. For this reason we have determined hereafter to keep fifty sets yearly for premiums.
—We will send out the coming week our notices of the expiration of subscriptions to The Scholastic. We hope . that all our subscribers will continue our paper, and not only that, but that they will procure us one or more new subscribers. We will do our best to give them their money’s worth.
—Next week we expect to publish “The Record of a Good Life,” being a sketch of the life of the late Dr. John M. Bigelow, of Detroit, Mich., whose death we chronicled in our last issue. Dr. Bigelow was, as Bishop Rosecrans, in the Catholic Columbian, styles .him, a “ saintly convert, profound scientist, and able writer.”
—The Senior Orchestra reorganized last Wednesday, with Bro. Theodore as director. The following are the z members: George Walters, leader and first violin; John / Thomson, second violin; A. J. Burger, viola; B. Clagget, t/ double bass; J. P. Quinn, cornet. A few more members wiil be added>o the organization in a few weeks.
— Rev. John McManus, whose death from yellow fever we announce in another column, received in 1863 the premium of honor, and his name may be found in golden letters in the walls ot the west-end refectory; This premium was given to the student receiving the majority of the votes of the students and of the members of the faculty.
—By many people the Manual Labor School at Notre Dame is confounded with the College. It is a separate institution, and the officers of the College have nothing whatever to do with it. The College has its officers, professors, etc., and the Manual Labor School has its director, teachers, etc. The two have been founded for different objects.
—A meeting of the Holy Angels’ Society was held Sunday, Sept. 8th., for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing year, with the following result: Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.; President, T. McNamara, C. S. C.; Vice-President, A. Coghlin; Secretary, W. McDevitt;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
33
Its exercises include public reading, declamations, essays, debates, dramatic exercises, and a moot court. It numbered, last year, forty members—the elite of the Junior Department. At a meeting held Tuesday, the 10th of September, the following officers were elected for the ensuing session: Very Rev. W. Corby and Rev. T. E. Walsh, ' Directors; J. A. Lyons, President; Frank W. Bicorn and FrankT.McGrath,Vice-Presidents; A.Rietz,Treasurer; G. Donnelly, Recording Secretary; J. Brady, Corresponding • Secretary; J. A. Gibbons, Librarian; K. L. Scanlan, Historian; M. J. Burns and W. J. McCarthy, Monitors; Frank E. Weisert and Frank Clarke, Censors; and J. Caren, Sergeant-at-arms. During the session Profs. T. E. - >	Howard and A. J. Stace will deliver a number of lectures
P /	before the Association. Bro. Leander and Prof. J. F.
” Edwards were appointed Promoters. The Editor of The Scholastic was invited to act as the Critic.
:	—Everyone ought to take part in the singing in the
church on Sundays, at least all those who are blessed with good voices; but this singing should be from the heart, and with the intention of offering up praise to God. It should ' be the endeavor of everyone to enter into the spirit of the Church, and let the pious words of the psalm or hymn find - an echo in his heart. When a whole congregation of people join in the praises of God with this spirit, their love and joy go along with the singing, and what the lips utter and the ears hear, the heart of the worshipper feels, as the expression of its devotion and happiness. It was thus that the people sang in the days of St. Augustine, and it was because they sang in this manner that he was so affected by , • the singing. “How many tears,” says he, “have I shed at i	the psalms! how much did the sweet singing of the Church
•	move me! As the tones sounded in my ears, the truth
made its way into my heart; my tears flowed, and I was filled with joy.” The same chant listened to with such delight by St. Augustine is used in our church. May it be sung in the same spirit, and may we too be affected as he was.
—On last Wednesday the second game of foot-ball this session was played by the Juniors. As there was a barrel of apples at stake, both sides worked with a will to the close. The boys met on the Campus at 1.30 p. m. Two of the best players were appointed to act as captains, namely Alec Rietz of Chicago, and Roger Williams, not of Rhode Island, but of Monmouth, Ill. Williams’ club, or ; side, as the boys termed it, wore red ribbons, and had a Murphy who, by the way, did good work during the game. I . We are not prepared to say, however, that he was the -	great red-ribbon advocate. Rietz’s side wore white, and
came very near w/ute-washing their adversaries, winning three times out of four innings. They were of course declared victors by the umpire, as the game was the best three in five games. The “ whites ” liberally shared the fruit . of their victory with their opponents. The game lasted two hours and passed oft' pleasantly. Among those who did good work for the “ red ” might be mentioned the captain, R. Williams, J. Burns, F. Bloom, J. Osher, E. Ewell, F. Way, F. Weisert, H. Niles. Whites,—A. Rietz, • J. Brady, A. Garren, F. Clarke, J. Lumley, R. French, F.
. Grever, A. Mergentheim, F. Ceiz, E. G. Sugg and A. Perley.
—The following books have been placed in the Lemon-• * nier Circulating Library: Mrs. Jameson’s Works, viz.: Le-; gends of the Madonna, Sketches of Art, Diary of an An-nuyee, Sacred and Legendary Art, 2 vols., Loves of the Poets, Studies and Stories, Legends of the Monastic Orders, Memoirs of Italian Painters, and Characteristics of Women; Lives of the Popes, from St. Peter to Pius IX, 2 vols.; De Montor, Translated by Nelligan; History of the Irish Brigades in the Service of France, O’Callahau; Memoirs of . Service Afloat, Admiral Semmes; Biographical Sketches of Distinguished Marylanders, Boyle; McSherry’s History of Maryland; History of Maryland, Brown and Scharf; Life of Madame Louise de France, Daughter of Louis XV; Life of Margaret Roper, Agnes M. Stewart; Life of Pope Pius IX, Brennan; Life of Archbishop Spalding, Rt. Rev. J. L. Spalding; Life of St. Catharine of Sienna, E. Cartier; Life of St. Charles Borromeo, Edward H. Thompson; Life ’	? and Work of Ozanam; Life of St. Francis of Assisi,
I’ Chalippe; Balmes’ Logic; History of the Jesuits, 2 vols., T Bartoli; Historyiof the American Revolution, Wilson; '	History of Ireland, Mitchell; Sketches of Irish Soldiers,
Col. Jas. E. McGee; Lady Fullerton’s Works, viz.: A Stormy Life, Constance Sherwood, Mrs. Gerald’s Niece, Too Strange to be True, Grantley Manor, Ellen Middleton, Lady Bird, Laurentia, and Seven Stories, 9 vols.; Lio-nello, Bresciani; In Six Months, Mary M. Meline; Countess of Glosswood; Juvenile Stories and History; Sketches of the Youn g Crusaders; The Noblemen of ’89, M. A. Quinton; The Wise Nun, and Other Tales, Tayor; The B:akes and Flannagans, Sidlier; Survivors of the Chancellor, and Martin Paz, Jules Verne; Ubaldo and Irene, Bresciani, 2 vols.; Isabelle de Verneuil, Snell; The Two Colonelsand the English Countess, Father Thomas; Pauline Seward, Bryant; From Kdlarney to New York, Nun of Kenmare; Florence O’Neill, The Rose of St. Germains, Agnes Stewart; Strayed From the Fold, Minnie Mary Lee; The Merchant of Antwerp, Conscience; Lion of Flanders, Conscience; Marion, Translated from the French; Known Too Late, by the Author of Tyborne; Romance of the Charter Oak, William Seton; Little Pierre the Pedlar of Alsace; The Joint Venture, Fitzimmons; New Lights, or Life in Galway, Sadlier; The Student of Blenheim Forest, Dorsey; The House of Yorke, by M. A. T.; Celebrated Sons of Irishmen, McGee; The Men of ’48, McGee; Travels of an Irish Gentleman in Search of a Religion, Moore; Revelations of St. Bridget; Old and New, Sadlier; Gordon Lodge or Retribution, Miss M. A. White; Maddelina, The Orphan of the Via Appia; The Spaewife, or the Queen’s Secret, Paul Peppergrass; Life and Speeches of O’Connell; Memoir and Speeches of R. L. Shiel and J. P. Curran; The Works of Moliere, Translated into English, Glasgow, 1751, 5 vols.; Life of Israel Putnam, I. N. Tarbox; Drake’s Indian Chiefs; History of the Discovery of America and of Remarkable Engagements with the Indians in New England. Hemy Trumbull; Diary of a Sister of Mercy; Anne Severin; Fickle Fortune,Faber; Heiress of Kilorgan, Sadlier; Life of Pope Pius IX, J. G. Shea; Household Books of Irish Eloquence; Glories of Ireland, McGee; A Sister’s Story, Mrs. Augustus Cravens. A large number of other volumes are expected shortly.
University Regulations.
SPECIAL RULES.
1.	The students of Notre Dame should at all times and everywhere behave like gentlemen. Therefore, good habits, gentlemanly deportment, politeness, neatness, order, application, respect for God and attention to religious duties are expected from them.
2.	All the Students are required to attend the exercises of public worship with punctuality and decorum. They must be provided with books suitable for divine worship.
3.	As soon as the bell announces the beginning or end of a college exercise, every one shall repair in silence to the discharge of that duty to which he is called.
4.	The time of recreation excepted, silence must be inviolably observed in all places.
5.	Students must show themselves obedient and respect-, ful towards the Professors and Prefects of the Institution. They must- never absent themselves from the place in which they ought to be, unless with permission from proper authority.
6.	Students must carefully avoid every expression in the least injurious to Religion, their Professors, Prefects or fellow-students.
7.	Students are not permitted to visit private rooms.
8.	Intoxicating liquors are absolutely prohibited.
9.	Compensation for all damage done to the furniture, or other property of the college, will be required from the person or persons causing such damage.
10.	No branch of study, once commenced, shall be dis-con'inued without permission of the Director of Studies.
11.	Students are not allowed to remain with visitors, parents and guardians excepted.
12.	No one shall leave the University grounds without the permission of the President, Vice-President or Prefect of Discipline.
13.	Any breach of pure morals, either in word or action, must be reported forthwith to the President, Vice-President or Prefect of Discipline.
34
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
14.	Students are not allowed to enter the playgrounds of the other departments without special permission.
15.	No students are permitted to take private walks unless accompanied by a Prefect.
16.	Noone shall keep in his possession any money except what he receives weekly from the Treasurer, on Wednesdays, at nine o’clock, a. m. TheUollege will not be responsible for any valuables, such as watches, money, etc., unless deposited with the Secretary.
17.	Bulletins are sent to parents every month.
18.	Bath-rooms, provided with hot and cold water, are fitted up for the use of the students.
19.	Stationery, etc., will be delivered to the students daily, during the morning and evening recesses.
20.	Students of low and vicious habits will not he retained in the College.
21.	Students who have failed to give satisfaction in the class-room, or who shall have been guilty of misconduct or breach of rule, will be sent to the detention-room during the recreations or promenades, and required to prepare their lessons or perform such tasks as shall be assigned them, and will be excluded from all College exercises until such tasks be accomplished.
22.	Every month the students must write to their parents or guardians. All letters sent or received may be opened by the President, Vice-President or Prefect of Discipline.
23.	No book, periodical or newspaper shall be introduced into the College without being previously examined and approved of by the Director of Studies. Objectionable reading-matter found in the possession of students will be withheld from them until their departure from the University.
24.	Whether in class or in recreation, when permitted to converse at table, or during, their walks, students should endeavor to improve the purity of their language and cultivate urbanity of manners. Bad habits and manners are sufficient to deprive a student of Degrees and Honors.
25.	The students are reviewed on Wednesdays and Sundays with regard to their personal neatness.
W. Corby, C. S. C., President.
Boll of Honor..
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arantz, R. E. Anderson, J. Brice, A. J. Burger, J. Berteling, M. T. Burns, T. J. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, J. J. Coleman, A B. Cougar, G. P. Cassidy, T. Conlan, W. Connolly, W. H. Carpenter, B. J. Claggett, W. H. Clagsett, C. J. Clarke, C. K. De Vries, M. Doty, L. J. Evers, M. English, J. Eberhart, A. J. Hertzog, J. P. Hagan, M. J. Hogan, j/Herrmann, L. Horn, J. Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, J. F. Krost, R. Keenan, B. Kratzer, J. R. Kelly, L. W. Lillig, A. A. Lent, P. B. Larkin, M. Laughlin, H. Maguire, J. McGrath, R. P. Mayer. W. N. McGee. J. J Mc-Erlain, H. W. Nevans, R. O’Brien, R. C. Price, L. N. Proctor, S. S. Perley, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, 0. P. Rettig, R. Russell, J. J. Shugrue, T. S. Summers, R. D. Stewart, G. Sugg, J. Thompson, S. P. Terry, P. H. Vogle, G. S. Walters, W. A. Widdicombe, C. Walsh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. J. Burns, J. G. Brady, J. M. Boose, F. Becker, F. W. Bloom, B. A Casey. J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, G. C. Castanedo, F. Ceiz, G. H. Donnelly, A. C. Eigholz, R. French, H. J. Fenner, J. A. Gibbons, J. W. Guthrie, W. D. Cannon, F. H. Greyer, E. G-. Gallagher, F. Glade, F. T. Gaffney, J. L. Halle, J. Kurz, J. A. Lumley, T. F. McGrath, J. L. Morgan, J. L. Nelson, J. N. Osher, E. Piekenbrock, A. P. Perley, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, F. N. Way, F. C. Weisert, E. 8. Walter, A F. Zahm, H. E. Canoil, A A Caron, W. J. McCarthy, H. Niles, J. M. Schneider, G. A. Schnull, E. G. Sugg.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. McDevitt, N. Nelson, James Courtney, C. Crowe, W. Rheinhardt, H. McDonald, Joseph Courtney, C. Long, A. Hart-rath, John Inderrieden, J. Gordon, C. McGrath, A. Coghlin, W. Zimmerman, W. Coghlin, Joseph Inderrieden, L. Young, F. Parsons, John Crowe, P. Fitzgerald, C. Garrick, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, 0. Welty, J. Williams, P. F. Brady, G. Howard, H. Bachmann, F. Orner, H. Kitz.
—Careful housewife (lifting a shoe from the soup tureen): “ La! wh'o’d a thought baby’s shoe would turn up in the soup ? But I knew it wasn’t lost. I never lose anything! ”
Erospsctus of the 9th Volume, 1878-9-THE ALDINE, The Art Journal of America.
SOLD ONLY TO SUBSCRIBERS.
COMPLETE IN 24 PARTS, AT 50 CENTS EACH. ISSUED MONTHLY.
It is the purpose of the publishers to persevere in their efforts to keep The Aldine, as an exponent of Art work, free from competition, and to spare neither thought nor expense to still further beautify and improve the broad pages of the work.
While urging the necessity of cultivating a taste for the beautiful in Nature and Art, The Aldine has not been unmindful of the force of example and Illustration, therefore it has been a constant study to show, in the pages of the work itself, that improvement so certainly consequent upon sincere devotion to such subjects. As in the past, so in the future, The Aldine will continue to be an example of the progressive and refining influences of connection and association with the beautiful and true.
The volume now in preparation, while it will not suddenly depart from the general course of its predecessors, will yet present many modifications and improvements, the result of study and experience in fitting The Aldine to worthily maintain its position as the “ The Art Journal of America.”
In the more mechanical department of the arrangement or make up, changes, in themselves slight, will largely enhanc the general beauty of the pages, which had already won admiration so hearty and universal.
Editorially, The Aldine will deal broadly and fairly with Art in general and American Art in particular. Carefully prepared papers will keep the reader well informed on ail Art topics of the important Art centres of this country and Europe. The important exhibitions will receive full and timely notice ; and artists whose achievements have won for them the right, shall be introduced and given a proper personality by sketches biographical and critical. It will be the purpose of the Editor to earn for the Critical and Literary Department of The Aldine a recognition in every way worthy of its established and admitted pre-eminence in Art illustration.
The Art Department of this volume will bencher in representations of American natural scenery than any of its predecessors. To aid a popular decision on the claims of rival localities to the title, “ The Switzerland of America,” our artists are exploring the wonders of those regions of our country which have more recently been brought into notice. The Yo Semite and Yellowstone, the Sierras and the Rockies shall be brought home to the patrons of The Aldine— but not to the exclusion or neglect of our glorious old Alleghanies and their more familiar surroundings.
Experience, and capital largely increased by the liberal patronage of an appreciative public, has made possible the introduction of greater system and plan in selecting the Art exhibits-so as to better cover ail desirable ground, enabling an harmonious and judicious combination and progression, so to speak, through the wide world of Art. Examples by figure, animal and landscape painters of every school—ancient and modern— American or foreign, will appear with all the old refreshing variety, but with an added advantage of more deliberate arrangement and defined purpose, to instruct and inform as well as to delight.
The publishers have entire confidence that the public will continue the evidence of their appreciation of these efforts to maintain an Art publication that shall be characteristic and worthy of the progress and liberal tastes of Americans, and they anticipate with pleasure the .opportunity for a practical verdict on their past achievements which the commencement of a new volume affords.
PLAN OF PUBLICATION.
The Aldine volumes will, in future, be completed in 24 parts at 50 cents each, published monthly and sold only to subscribers for the complete volume. Subscribers will pay on delivery for the parts actually received, and no canvasser or deliverer is authorized to vary these terms in any way or to make any representations on the taith of the publishers outside of the regular prospectus. The Aldine will not be sold by book or newsdealers generally.
Any person desiring to act as the agent for any particular locality, should apply promptly, giving full particulars as to business, references, and territory desired. Liberal arrangements will be made with the best parties.
THE ALDINE PUBLISHING COMPANY,
JAMES SUTTON, President,
18 Vesey St., New York.
t !
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
35
Michigan Central Railway
z
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIAvR. R. LINE.
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	iSight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “• Mich. City.. “ Niles .. “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 31 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 39 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m Jl 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
					
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		tPacific Express.	$ Evening Express. 6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 u
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 .05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 •*	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n .2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	
IN lies and Soutli Bend TJivision.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p ro “ N. Dame— 8 52 •	6 38 ••
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “ 715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m
“ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces'under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA. LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negau, nee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake SuperioCountry. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CAR3
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest'.
GOING WEST. -
			No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, MaH.
	Pittsburgh,	Leave .Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,		 Mansfield,		 Crestline,	Arrive		11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.45 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.30 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “ 5.35 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 * 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
	Crestline,	Leave Forest,			7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.30 p.m. 3.45 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 12 25 a.m.		
	Lima,									
	Ft.Wavne					2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	
	Ply mouthj Chicago,..					
						
	GC		>ING EAST.			
			bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, MaD.
	Chicago,..; Plymouth, Ft. Wayne, Lima,	 Forest. 				Leave	9.10 PAT. 2.46 A.M. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 P.M. 9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M. 2.48 “ 4.25 “	• •*••• •
						
							
	Crestline,.... Arrive						
	Crestline	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 P.M. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A-M. 2.30 “	4.30 a.m. 5.00 “ 7.10 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 “	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 PAT. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily .except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEES, G. P. & T. A. -
A NEW SYSTEM — OF German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, . at the University of Notre Dame, lnd._
Published by EE. PTTSTET,
52 Barclay Street, NEW YORK, and 204 Vine Street, CiNCimn.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those adopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beautifully engraved.	. .
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.

36
THE NOTRE DAME'SCHOLASTIC.
University of Notre Dame,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Bailroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advance: ment of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	•
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Chicago, B. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
■Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m
Peru accommodation........................ 5 00 p.m.	9 45 a.m
Night Express.............................10 00 p.m.	6 30 a.m
A. M. SMITH, A. KIMBALL, Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo’, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, H., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation..................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.

PBOPBIETOB OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Muy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
■ P. S HICKEY.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.	'
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend aa follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11	05 am. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10pm; Buffalo,4 am.
12	16 pm. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 240 am; Cleveland, 7 05a m; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
4, 50and4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago. 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raft, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26,1877.
Northward Trains.	No. 5* Peru and Meh. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W.,Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis		6.10 P. M	12.25 P. M.	7.25 A. M.
“ Kokomo		8.30 “	2.42 “	9.52 “
Ar. Peru		9.25 “	3.50 “	10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte*	 “ Michigan City		9.30 P. M. 11.27 “ 12.55 “ 1.40 A. M.		11.02 A. M; 1.07 P. M. 2.35 “ 3.20 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Michigan City.. “ LaPorte	 “ Plymouth	 Ar. Peru		9.35 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 11.47 “ 1.40 “	8.05 P. M. 8.55 A. M. 10.33 “ 12.35 “	-
Lv. Peru	 “ Kokomo	 “ Indianapolis....	2.00 P. M. 3.05 “ 5.25 “	12.40 A. M. 1.45 “ ' 4.00 “	6.10 A. M. 7.05	“ 9.35 “
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis. Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
INFORMATION WANTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, seed about 18 years.
Was a Minim in 1864 and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, Ill.; afterwards in St Louis. Mo.
Please address,	“ The Scholastic.”