I
1
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vleturus; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 29, 1877.	Number 18.
Sonnet.
FREDERICK OZANAM.
A soul alight with purest flame of love, A heart aglow with sweetest charity, A mind all filled—and this is rarity— With even-balanced thoughts, his eyes above, Yet saw the earth in its dread verity ; For is’t not true that some who Heaven see
Cast down no looks upon the shadows of This shadowed world ? A serpent, yet a dove, He saw the world, and seeking, found the clue To all the thoughts of the present time, And from the past drew other secrets down;
He placed ’mid Dante’s boys a diamond true Of purest water; and in every clime
Prayers of God’s poor add gems to his own crown.
Maurice F. Egan.
—Catholic Secord.
Shall it Ever be Thus?
A Moral Tale.
Written Expressly for the Notre Name Scholastic by One who shall be Nameless.
CHAPTER THE FIRST.
On every side we see blossoms that only seem to wait for our plucking; every wind brings us their betraying odors; yet we turn away, and go on with our old business of pulling thistles, no matter how our hands bleed.—Bayard Taylor.
“And such, is life,” said Von LUnchengrab, surreptitiously swallowing a sardine, while the bar-tender was attending to a more profitable customer. “If we only meet it in a cheerful spirit, it lays its prizes at our feet.
“Man fondly follows grief and care, He seeks for thorns and finds them there; While, wasting sweets on desert air,
The violet blooms unheeded,”
continued he, singing to the good old tune of “Freut euch des Lebens'' “ Now, my good friend, Von Schrinckenbach, why did you let pass that golden opportunity which perhaps may never again recur ? A free passage on an excursion to Niagara! Oh! if I-only had had the chance, how quickly I would have availed myself of it! How I would have joined in the dances on the hurricane deck by , moonlight, or if the night were not propitious, how brilliant a game would I have played at the card tables below! ”
“And lost all your money,” said Von Schrinckenbach.
“Ah! that is where I have the advantage,” said Von LQnchengrab; “I never have any money to lose. And while talking of money, my dear fellow, do me the favor to lend me twenty dollars. I shall return it in a little while; but as to that, you know, it’s only a question of time.”
“A question that it will take a long time to answer, I, fear. No, Von Lttuchengrab; much as I should like to oblige you, I make it a strict rule never to lend money.”
“ Why, my dear sir, rolling in riches, as you must be, I should think that it would be a pleasure to oblige your friends. How otherwise can you dispose of your vast resources ? ”
“ Not so vast as you imagine, perhaps,” said Von Schrinckenbach, “ although I must confess it does give me some trouble to determine what to do with my money. If I keep it with me, I cannot sleep at night, for fear of burglars. If I put it in a bank, the bank will be sure to burst. If I buy Government bonds, they will redeem them again in silver, and I shall be the loser. If I bury it in the ground, who knows what would happen ? I could neither rest by night nor by day. Oh, how miserable it is to have the care of wealth! ”
“True! true! Nammum summum defendendum. You must be deaf-and-den-dumb when anybody asks you for it. Why, it’s a joke. Don’t you see it ? ”
“ Please—please don’t, dear Von Luuchengrab; it’s no joke to me, I assure you! O’.i! the miseries of life!”
“Pooh! pooh! Cultivate the muses, man, and fling money with its anxieties to the winds. D mce with Terpsichore, declaim with Melpomene, jest with Thalia, sing with Polyhymnia, or gaze at the stars with Urania.”
Von Lilnchengrab was after all not much of a classicist, and he pronounced “Thalia” and “Urania’’ as careless persons will, with the accent on the antepenult. Professor Parkes, an inoffensive man in other respects, became quickly exacerbated by a false quantity. Although aware that he was in a dangerous neighborhood, he could not forbear murmuring: “ Urania.”
“Sir!” said Von Luuchengrab, turning fiercely around, ddid you address that expression to me? Au unprovoked insult I can nover overlook.”
“Ahem!” said the Professor, embarrassed, and conscious that he had no business in a bar-room anyhow;—“ it was, ahem, a false quantity—a—”
“A false quantity of what, sir? Explain this atrocious insolence! How dare you address such terms to a perfect stranger. Here is my card, sir. My friend, here, Von Schrinckenbach, will meet any friend of yours whom you may designate, to arrange preliminaries. Enough, sir. No more, sir. Yes: as I was saying before, Von Schrinckenbach, gaze at the stars with Urania.”
274
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“But, my dear Von Liinchengrab, I don’t want to have anything to do with this. It isn’t safe, you know.”
“ What! not safe to gaze at the stars ? ”
“I don’t mean that; for, setting aside the danger of being hit by a fall ing star, ^suppose there isn’t much—but ”—
“Butyou are afraid of becoming too enthusiastic in the prosecution of the sublime science of astronomy ? Ah 1 my friend, I sympathize with you. Do not allow yourself to be.ensnared by the charmer. Waste not the precious hours of sleep in discovering asteroids. I once thought of devoting my whole life to the discovery of an additional asteroid, but the inward monitor asked me: 1 What then ? ’ And I was forced to echo the question and re-echo it through the cavernous recesses of my sensus intimus^idL-out coming to any farther conclusion. How can we imagine that the names of the discoverers of these trifling luminaries will be handed down to posterity, when the name of him who discovered the brightest luminary of all,—the sun,—is absolutely unknown to history.”
. “Way, I suppose it was Adam," said Von Schrincken-bach.
“You suppose so,—yes! But that you see, by the very terms you use, is a mere hypothesis. Aud what if the Darwinian hypothesis be true? What if Adam himself be merely au hypothesis ? An hypothesis, perhaps, with a tail!”
“ Oh, Von Liinchengrab, how can you? In the present state of my nerves—”
“What! shrink from the Darwinian hypothesis, confirmed as it is even, by the testimony of living languages! Tae Greeks do not consider a man perfect unless he is tdeios, which means having a telos or tail—the English word is an exact derivative; and a modern French writer says that Napoleon’s dignified demeanor was something wonderful dans un homme de' sa taille, which, of course, means his tail, although the anti-Darwinians seek to gloss it over with another translation. And why are those who make our clothes called tailors, unless by way of reminiscence of the times when the tail was the only article of clothing worn ?”
“Very pliusible,—but let us talk of something else. This affair with Professor Parkes. You surely don’t mean to fight him, d > you ? ” The Professor had stepped out during Von Liluchengrab’s Darwinian harangue.
M Fight him, of course, and kill him too! What do you take me for ? ”
“Yes; but it’s so dangerous, even for the seconds; for a stray shot, you know, might take any direction, and I made it a rule never to have anything to do with fire-arms.”
“ Well, you are in for it now. The Professor has gone off, you see, probably with a view of selecting a friend to act as his second. You can’t get out of it now, so you must break through your rule.”
“ And what will happen if I decline to do so ? ”
“ Happen ? Why, you’ll be shot surely, then; the Professor’s second will shoot you,—the Professor himself will shoot you,—I’ll shoot you—”
“You’ll shoot me! Excuse me. I must just step out for a moment. I’ll see you again." And Von Schrinck-enbach disappeared through the back door.
“ There,’’ soliloquized Von Liinchengrab;—“ that is the last I shall see of him! He will leave town by the next train, and never come back. Serves him right! He should have lent me the small sum that I requested.”
The Orientalist had been'calmly viewing the scene from
his corner, where he was smoking a pipe through a flexible stem of many convolutions and sipping arrack punch. He now addressed Von Liinchengrab—
“Your friend does not shine as a duellist,’’ said he.
“Jfy friend,” said Von Lunchengrab. “No friend of mine is he, or of any man’s that I know. He is afraid to commit himself to the claims of friendship. Shine! He shine!”
“Likakatsi Underabed," murmured the other.
“ A Persian proverb, eh ? ” The Orientalist nodded.
(The suite by and bye.)
How Shall We Educate the Nation ?
BY JOHN G. EWING.
The great truth in government that this century has established, is that the government derives all its power, under God, from the consent of the people governed. On this truth rests our nation, and this right did our fathers defend in ’76. It was no new axiom, for we then but held by the Laws of the Confessor and the Rights of Magna Charta. The theory of divine right is now held by few . men of learning and of intelligence. It has become a thing of the past. The monarchies of Europe have become—or rapidly are becoming—Republics in reality, whatever they may be in name. The many, not the few, now rule. The saying of Lewis le Grand, “I am the State,” would now be met by the universal fact patent to all that the people, not the ruler, is the State. Governments bow to the public will, to the public opinion. Let us not argue whether that be the true and proper form of government, though I would say it is; let us not linger on this question; let us but meet the fact as it presents itself. Be it true or false in doctrine, be it fortunate or unfortunate in its practice, the truth of government by the people is now an established fact, and must be admitted as such. In our Nation was it first pushed to its ultimate conclusions. The Bourbon and the Brunswicker fought and struggled, the one to free, the other to enslave our people. Little did Lewis XVI, or George III that maniac king, think that in that Republic would arise new principles, new longings, and new hopes that would bury the throne of one in the waves of a universal carnage and destruction, and cause that' of the other to totter to its fall. We have risen a Nation that has sent a tide of democratic ideas back to the Old World of Divine Right, that has swept the people over the ruin and destruction of monarchies and empires to the principle that the government rules for and by the governed, and not through Divine Right, and for its own glory and renown. Government must now rest on the confidence and love of its people. For it is now held that “ Society is an association of equal rights, for mutual protection; and that power, under God, belongs to the whole body of corporators,—that is to the multitude.”
If, then, the people must and do govern, if they are the State, and must maintain it, how can a solid, firm, and lasting foundation for government be found ? Can it found ? Would not the people, under such rule, disregard all law ? Would not crime and passion hold eternal sway? Would not uncontrolled license rule the State? Would not contempt of law, disrespect of rulers, love of self, and gratification of-all wishes be the end attained? Is not, then, this axiom of government by the governed false and pernicious? Is
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
275
then all this beautiful fabric of Equality and Liberty to fall, for want of a controlling power for good over the minds of men ? We, Americans, born and reared on Freedom’s soil, and loving our Nation and our Government with love undying, who could and have poured out our blood in token of this love, we say there is a means to attain this desired end. It is not new. The axiom is well known and evident to all. No nation can be free and self-governing, unless founded on clear intelligence and well-established virtue. Education, in its true sense, is what we seek. It is the foundation of liberty, it is the safeguard of equality. We must have education in order to have a fit administration of government, in order to have a proper exercise of a nation’s power.
What is Education ? Where are we to look for it? Education is the development of man’s powers and faculties, of his heart as well as his head, of his moral.as well as of his intellectual endowments. We, in order to be a free people, must have this development. The child must be reared in the mental and moral knowledge of his forefathers, and made to transmit it to his posterity. Like the atoms of matter in the universe, so are the children of man in society. If the atoms be not disposed in true and righteous order, confusion is the result. None can be left idle. Each has its duty in the economy of Nature; each, its work. The change of place of one alone would destroy the body formed. * So are the children of man. So they, too, should be taught in the way, and thus they should be guided by laws of right and truth from their cradle to their tomb. Truth must be developed, not in itself, for it is the same now, and always will be the same, as when the fiat of man’s creation went forth, but it must be developed in the minds of men. Truth must be brought home to the people and made known to them. But men will say, “ We have truth. We can allow our ancestors had it not, but we possess it in all its fulness. They said it, and they blind their eyes to the tyrannies and oppressions, the pride and the luxury, the folly and deceit, that fi’l this earth wjth misery and mourning, and that drag mankind down into sorrow and sin. We have not the violent crimes of our ancestors, but we have the .more stupendous crimes which corrupt civilization has brought forth. For the robber’s sword, we have the forger’s pen; for the wild foray of war, we have our swindles and speculations ruining thousands, and sending hundreds to suicide graves; for fierce and uncontrollable lust, we have polite and polished divorce; and thus we might go on through the catalogue of moral shame and degradation, giving proof to the assertion that our enlightenment is a shame as far as national advancement is concerned. Murder, suicide, lust, robbery, and fraud are seen in high places so commonly in our day as to excite no surprise, and nothing more than a passing comment. No nation can govern itself unless it has a clear head and a sound heart. It will rush to its own destruction and ruin, blindly and without a purpose. Without education, a nation is either buried in dead and hopeless servitude, or raging in a turbulent sea of uncontrolled anarchy, license, and passion.
Education we, as a free nation, must have. Whence shall it come? Shall we turn to that knowledge without morality, that sings for us the siren song of equality and conciliation effected by its teachings? Shall we listen to its voice, and let our nation drift on through the sea, dark and foreboding of fatal Atheism or sensual Materialism, on to the rocks and shoals of- anarchy, revolution, and un-
bridled passion ? Let us but listen to the warning voice of nations gone. Hear through the ages the mournful song of fallen Greece! List to the sage teachings of a Plato and a Socrates, warning their countrymen of their danger, and yet offering naught but dead and unfeeling philosophic teaching as a resource! List to the cry for a God to lead them to the right road, and to show them the way to true freedom! Hear the songs of their immortal poets, and see the works of their immortal sculptors, and consider them well. Behind all this beauty are corruption and decay. 'Tis the apple of the desert, beautiful to the eye, and crumbling to ashes at the touch. Ask of Greece, that land of al-*most superhuman intelligence, the cause of its downfall and decay, and the answer will come, the want of moral" teaching. The laws of a Lycurgus or a Solon might form a State, but could never preserve it. The Romans came in their might, and the nation was no more. They too practiced, as far as man could with reason as a guide, the virtues natural to men, and yet they fell into the dark night ofcorruptionandsin. They fell,an.l Caesar came. Amighty Virgil might sing the praise of old Roman virtues, and a Livy in his genius might take them to point his tale. A Juvenal might sting with his pen of matchless satire the viecs almost numberless of his age, and a Tacitus might point them to the inevitable end. Still they fell as did all before them. List to the cry of the pagan heart for something more than mere knowledge; list to it, ye that must rule the nation, and take warning by it. A few deserted columns and temples are all that are left of those proud and haughty peoples. Knowledge could not uphold the nation. Something more was needed.. It was heart-training, it was moral teaching. It was the perfect fulfilment of that pagan maxim, “Know thyself,” in heart as well as in mind, that was needed in Greece and Rome of old. Even in Christian times have we seen the nations fall from the fulfilment of this maxim, and every fall marked a nation’s decline. In this century past, did we see the eff.ct of mere intellectual training. The most enlightened nation then on earth, deifying humxnity, refusing to God the homage due, and bowing down before a harlot as the Goddess of Reason! We have seen that nation plunge into excesses unknown before, sweeping the land in a torrent, with carnage, lust, anarchy, and destruction in its wake. We have seen what education without morality is worth. List to history, and trust not to mere reason. Are ye wise and true in your love of country ? Then know that education without morality leads a nation to destruction, or places over it the Caesar of despotic sway. Morality is needed to a free nation, and morality must form part of the nation’s life, part of its education, part of its training. L;st not to the song of Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity, sung by the teachers of the doctrine of Intellect! It will lead but to destruction; it will bury our people in oblivion; it will cause our name, as a nation, to go down as but another example added to those who said they would stand without God.
Here are we, as a people, met by the question as to the wisdom of our method of education. Are our schools as now managed, when viewed in the light of the foregoing truths,—are they, viewed in the light of logical truth, wise and politic? I say, “No ; in all truth they are not.” The Government says to the people, “In consideration of the religious difference of the people, we shall establish schools in which no religious doctrine shall be taught. If we allow the Bible to be read, it shall be read without note or com-
276	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ment, so that it may afford no instruction to the youth. But since the version of the Bible is with many a disputed point, it cannot and shall not be allowed in our schools.” We, therefore, have schools without God, education without morality; we follow the nations of old in their teachings, shall we follow in their practice? shall we follow in their way to ruin and destruction? Nay, not only the Catholic now protests, but the Protestant also raises his voice against this system. It is false in its conception of education. It is leading our land to ruin. Men are rousing against it, and day after day some earnest seeker sees the evil, and warffs the nation. It, as a learned Protestant clergyman remarked a few months ago, is breaking down Protestantism in our land, and inducing infidelity in its stead. Better error mixed with truth, than blank error, denying God. The evils of the system are patent to all men; few would now deny that these schools form a nation of Godless men and women, and such a nation is a crime against civilization. The system is wrong, and cannot be upheld. Not many years shall go by before we shall see the nation rise against-it, and shall witness its downfall and destruction by the still God-fearing people of this land. The opponents of our present system bring forward two substitutes for it. The one is that the State no longer interferes in education; the other, that the school tax be divided among the diverse religious bodies to be used by them in educating their children. •
I consider the first substitute as unwise. The State should not educate, but should provide means for education. Speaking on the subject of education, it has been well said: “ The fact is palpable, and every statesman, philosopher, and candid student of the educational question confesses that voluntary agencies are wholly unable to undertake a task so gigantic” as to reach the ignorant masses that abound in every community.’ But, we, as a free nation, must educate all our citizens, poor as well as rich; and here it is that government will find its work. With its thoroughly organized resources and immense power, it is fully able to reach this ignorance, and yet to do, it must not necessarily put on the pedagogue’s cap. Let our country take pattern after the nations of Europe, wise in this respect at least, and forego the thought of teaching in person the people. Let us adopt that method which Prussia, Austria, France, England and her colonies have all adopted, that of dividing the tax among the religious bodies of the nation. Let us levy the tax, and thus divide it. We shall still have free education, and we shall violate the conscience of no one. The only objection, of any import, raised against this system is that it would be impossible to satisfy the diverse denominations, they being so many, and in many cases of such small number. And another objection raised is that it would prevent the unification of our people. The best answer, and a complete one, is the working of this system in the countries named, especially in Canada, where the same elements of diversity are met as are met in our nation. Here we shall find neither of these objections is of weight when met by the test of experience. If our present system is done away with, this is the method that should be adopted and followed by our people. In it is retained the leading principle of our present system, that endears it to every American heart, namely, free, public education, supported by Government taxation.	‘
I say, our system Is made away with, and I contend it should be. As now conducted, it leads logically and inevi
tably to the fate of Greece and Rome, for the education imparted is knowledge without morality. We cannot introduce into it, which as now formed, religious teachings. To the mind of the child by a system of religious education framed by the State is to violate the rights of the parent. No American with religious persuasions will deny this, and no one would sooner rouse against such coercion than he, for it would be a violation of the sacred right of liberty of conscience. Hence we must either change our present system or form a Godless nation. We must change, unless we are fools in our wisdom. One more objection I would bring against our present system, and the mention of it should touch the pride of every American, and rouse his innate love of justice. We, Americans, vaunt and boast our hatred of the union of Church and State; our right of free belief; our love of fair play; our respect for the rights of minorities: and yet we give the lie to ourselves, and fall far below the monarchies of Europe, when we tax the six millions of Catholics, and yet refuse them a share in the benefit thereof. We refuse them a share, because we place it where they in conscience cannot use it, and hence we act in the same way as we would in forbidding them the benefit in justice due them. We have Taxation without Representation. Is this right? Is this even politic? Here I will rest cause, and on these two grounds do I protest against our present system, on its evident tendency to infidelity, and on the injustice of Taxation without Representation.
Three ways are open to us: to educate as I have laid down; to retain our present system; or to have no public, free education. As to the last, ignorance leads a nation to servitude. It brings a Caesar to rule the people. Shall we then retain our present system ? Godless education may for a time be endured by a people, but it as inevitably leads to the same end, to anarchy, followed by the iron heel and absolute sway of Caesar’s rule. Education with morality is all that can keep a nation free. Let us cherish it as becomes Americans. It is the safeguard of our liberties; it is the refuge of our rights. Guided by it, we shall prosper, and without it we shall fall, mayhap never to rise. We must be free, for we feel we cannot be otherwise. Let us not add another to the list of those who fought and died for the freedom they never gained. We cannot be free without education, and we cannot be educated without morality.
The Hudson.
Aside from romantic beauty, the banks of the Hudson have an interest which to the historical student is far more enchanting than their natural grandeur. Her winding banks are everywhere marked by the reminiscences of battle-fields and fortifications of the revolutionary war; besides, they are studded with romantic haunts which form the subject of many an interesting story.
As everyone has a natural liking either to see in person the relics of bygone times, or to read of them as described by some one who has seen them, we will relate some of the most important events which took place on this river. On the Jersey side of the river, near a small place called Weehawken, is the spot where the duel between Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton took place. This occurred during Jefferson’s administration, on the 11th of July, 1894. Aaron Burr, the Vice-President, was both in law and in general politics Hamilton’s most bitter opponent. At last Burr challenged Hamilton to a duel, and the latter accepted.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
277
They fixed Weehawken as the place for the meeting. It was Hamilton’s intention not to return fire, and this he carried out; but Burr was determined; he took deadly aim, and at his first shot Hamilton fell. It is also remarked that the very spot where Hamilton fell is the place where his eldest son had fallen a short time before, also a victim to a barbarous custom of those times. A small spot of ground once marked the place, but it is now almost forgotten. Burr with that shot blasted his own reputation, and lost the remarkable address and magnetism which had previously made him such a favorite with all his friends and acquaintance. From the time of the duel, Burr was ostracized, lived in poverty, and died in distress. *
Near to the same suburban town of Weehawken is the place where Joseph Bonaparte lived in exile, and not far from Bonaparte’s seclusion is the house where Audubon, the great naturalist, lived for many years. From its mouth to its head, every mile is marked like the pages of a history. Here not only is the name of Henry Hudson ever to remembered, but also the deeds of Major Andre and Benedict Arnold, which are printed on every flashing bubble of the glistening stream. To the tourist on the river, the ruins of old Smith’s cabin, wherein Arnold hatched his treason, is ever an object of note. Every American takes an indescribable interest in tracing each point connected with the campaign. The place where Arnold arrived in Haverstraw Bay, in a small boat, with his treasonable documents in his pocket, is still remembered by certain marks. There it was that Andre and Arnold consulted, and from thence Andre crossed in a small boat to a little landing below the well-known village of Sing Sing. Thence following the path through the woods to Tarrytown, he, while on his way to New York, was commanded by the volunteer trio to “ halt.” Arnold, it seems, had some private troubles; these drove him into a passion, and he committed some misdemeanors. He was at one time publicly mobbed, and was afterwards reprimanded by Washington, who performed his duty gently and considerately. After a short time Arnold secured from Washington the command at West Point, then the most important point in America. Stung by disgrace, and the want of money, Arnold resolved to gratify his passion by betraying his country. He made a proposition to Clinton, with whom he had previously held correspondence, to surrender his command to the British. The proposal was eagerly accepted, and Major Andre appointed to confer with Arnold. Andre ascended the river in a small boat called the Vulture. While lying at anchor waiting for Andre to return, it was attacked and had to leave without him. Andre was therefore compelled to return to New York by the road. He had passed as far as Tarrytown, when three men sprang from an ambuscade, seized the horse by the reins and commanded him to alight, which he immediately did. Having accosted him for a few moments, they determined to search him. Having done so, and found nothing of interest, they finally compelled him to pull off his boots, in which they found some papers that proved him to be a spy. He was then locked up for a short time to await his trial. When the trial came off he was found guilty, and executed. The exact spot where he was captured is still marked by a large monument. It is situated in the eastern part of the village of Tarrytown, in a private lawn. The monument is about seven feet square, and on it is an inscription which we cannot now recall. About five miles from this village is the battle-field of White Plains. Wash
ington, having evacuated New York, advanced up the river, and stationed his troops at this place. Shortly after he was attacked by General Howe, who defeated a part of his army.
Besides the historic memories which are wound in and out on every beud of this beautiful river, it is interesting because of the many persons of note in science, art, and letters who have lived and are still living on its banks. We will mention a few of these. There is no person who is any great lover of reading who has not read the stories of “Queechy”and the “Wide Wide World.’’ The authoress of these is Miss Warner. Her little house is situated on the edge of the river, and the cars on the H. R. R. are rushing by it every hour.
On the summit of the pallisades is situ ited an old brown house, where in his quiet laboratory a gray-haired enthusiast named Morse worked night and day despite the jeers of the world. The house, lofty, firm and roomy, stands in its old place yet, and about it lingers the grand individuality of its owner, and at the front of the hill the wire strands take on their threadlike path the words which bring together, so to say, the opposite ends of the world. The earth is now girdled by cables and wires, and from the house on the Hudson came the inventor who annihilated time and space. On the left bank of the river stands an old-fashioned house, almost hidden from view by a cluster of trees, which was the residence of Martin Van Buren for many years before his death. On a gentle slope the house of Cole, the great artist is still standing. It was here that he produced his famous set of allegorical pictures entitled the “Voyage of Life,” afterwards reproduced in steel engraving.
A few miles from Germantown stands a mansion in the Gothic style owned by the descendants of Chancellor Livingston, of Revolutionary fame. It is called Clairmont, after Fulton’s first steamer. The name of Livingston will ever be associated with that of Fulton and his steamer. Had it not been for Livingston’s encouragement and-pecuniary aid, perhaps the frenzied Fulton would not have run his quaint little steamer, Clairmont, from New York to Albany in September, 1807—now seventy years ago. Fulton labored long, and often felt disheartened; but by the encouragement of Livingston he came ou1 crowned with success. For many long years the Hudson boasted the only steamer in the world.
About thirty-five miles up the east bank is the homestead of Washington Irving. We deem it unnecessary to say anything of this favorite writer. There can scarcely be any American who has not read the tales of Irving His “ Diedrich Knickerbocker,” “ Sleepy Hollow,” “ Dolf Heyliger,” “Ichabod Crane” and “Rip Van Winkle” have become household names in our country. The house is still standing, and everything around it bespeaks the taste of its first owner. The plots of many of his tales are laid in Sleepy Hollow and Sunnyside.
The banks of the Hudson are also famous for many seats of learning, and also as being the homes of some of the richest men in America. The great Military Academy is situated at West Point, the School of Engineers at Albany, and Mt. St. Vincent’s Academy for young ladies near Yonkers. Near the town of Rokeby is situated the mansion of Wm. B. Astor; near West Point is the mansion of ex-Secretary Fish; and near Front Hill is a residence which once belonged to Edwin Forrest, all which go to make the natural scenery more attractive. May.
2'78
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Two volumes of Letters of St. Jane Frances de Chantal have been published by Pion & C Paris.
—D. Lathrop & Co. have begun the publishing of a quarterly eclectic record of American and Foreign books, to be known as ‘‘The Boston Book Bulletin.” .
—L’Abbe H.Fanien has written a book called “La Por-tioncule, ou le Grand Pardon d’Assise, son origine, son histoire,son excellence, sapratique,” of which two editions have been issued.	»
—J. B. Lippincott & Co., Philadelphia, have published a popular edition of Sullivan’s “ New Ireland.” Their editions are issued by special arrangement with the author’s English publishers.
—The English Premier’s Biography is now being published at St. Petersburg under the title of “ Lord Beaconsfield Disraeli,” the magnitude of which may be estimated from the fact that the first volume, which only carries the Premier’s life dowu to 1846, consists of 750 pages.
—An imp irtaut collection’ of Hebrew manuscripts has recently been brought to London, and the question of their purchase is now being considered by the authorities of the British Museum They are forty in number, and come from Sana and Yemen. Thirteen of them are Biblical.
—Mr. Elliot Stock, of Pa’ernoster Row, has reproduced in facsimile the original manuscript of the “ Christian Year,” as it came first from the hands of John Keble. It is true it does not contain all the sixty or seventy poems which make up the printed volume, but we have in it those Morning and “Evening Hymns” which have become classics in the language.
—Very Rev. Dean Neville, D. D., for many years the intimate friend of the late Most Rev. Dr. Moriarty, Bishop of Kerry, is writing a life of that illustrious Prelate. Besides the personal It nowlege the Dean posesses of the life, labors, learning, and virtues of the late Prelate, the executors have handed over to him many valuable documents and correspondence, found amongst the archives of the Bishop’s library. Considering the work before him, and taking into consideration the arduous duties attached to the Dean’s position in this ancient diocese, we can see that his hands will be full for some months to come; but when the volume issues from the press, we are satisfied that it • will be worthy of the great subject and biographer. The learned Dean, we are also informed, has kindly consented to edit the Sermons, Pastorals, Allocutions, Retreats, &c., &c., delivered by the late erudite Prelate during his episcopacy, wich will form a valuable addition to the sacred eloquence and Ascetic Theology of the Irish Church.
—The Academy says.- “ By the death of Miss Julia Kavanagh, at Nice, on the 20th ult., English literature has been deprived of an accomplishd novelist and a skilled writer of biography. She was the only child of Morgan Kavanagh, a gentleman of some note in his time as the author of curious books on the science and source of language. Of Irish birth (she was born at Thurles in 1824) a residence in France for some years of her early life gave her a practical knowledge of the manners of French life and the traditions of French literature. In her twentieth year she returned to London, and at once entered upon literature as a profession. Her first work, entitled, “ Three Paths,” a simple story for children, appeared in 1847; but her first step in her new life was won by the publication in 1848 of “Madeline, a Tale of Auvergne.” This was soon followed by “ Women in France during the Eighteenth Century.” About 1853 she solaced her arduous labors by a lengthened visit to France, Switzerland, and Italy. The fruits of her travels were seen in 1858, on the appearance of “ Summer and Winter in the two Sicilies.” She again returned in 1862 to the familiar scenes of French literature, with two volumes on “French Women of Letters,” and the favorable reception accorded to these volumes prompted the issue next year of a companion work on “English Women of Letters.” It would be impossible to mention the names of the novels from-her pen which passed through the press in rapid succession. “Adele,” (1858) and “Queen Mab” (1863) were probably the most popular. Many of them received the honor of more than one edition, and nearly all
were republished and warmly welcomed in America. If her novels were not distinguished for depth of thought or profound grasp of character, they were all remarkable for gracefulness of style and much poetic feeling. Of Julia Kavanagh, if of few other English female novelists, it may be emphatically said that she left ‘ no line which dying she could wish to blot.’ ”
Scientific Notes.
—An expedition under the auspices of the French Government is to be sent to San Francisco to observe the transit of Mercury, which occurs on May 6,1878.
—A- series of deep-sea researches after the manner of the Challenger investigations, is to be instituted toward the close ol next year, in the Bay of Bengal and the Indian cceau, by an expedition under the direction of the Government of India.
—It has been remarked by Dr. Reichenau that generally birds which have open nests produce colored eggs, while those that have covered or concealed nests lay white eggs. The color of the eggsserve as a protective, and may possibly be due to the action of the principle of selection.
—M. Fabre has introduced to the notice of the French Academy of Sciences an American vine, of the species ri-paria, which is not attacked by phylloxera, gives cuttings readily, can be grafted easily from French species of vines, thrives in almost any kind of soil, and grows rapidly.
—In experiments with nitro-glycerine M.Brull finds that when a portion of it is suddenly heated to 180 deg. centrigrade, explosion ensues, but the statement that a gradual heating of nitro glycerine to 193 degs. results in simple decomposition, without ignition or detonation, is questioned.
—Spurious wines appear to be very extensively manufactured in Berlin. One of the largest houses in the city, that pretended to deal only in pure wine suitable for medicinal purposes, had actually nothing eise in stock but artificial mixtures of spirit and sugar to which some flavoring essences were added.
—The University of Upsala, Sweden, is at present attended by 1,395 students, of whom one-half are included in the philosophical faculty. The corps of teachers embraces sixty-three ordinary and extraordinary professors, and fifty-four privatdocenten. Of these eighty-two are in the philosophical faculty.
—Imitation gems of the corundum variety—blue, red, and purple sapphire, etc.,—have at length been successfully produced by M. Fell, of Paris. The color is the result of using small quantities of metallic oxides. The mass is worked with boracic acid, and in order to make large gems, the discoverer says it is necessary to keep the mixture under constant heat for several weeks.
—A dealer of London, England, has lately received from Moscow an aquamarine weighing over six and one-half ounces, without a blemish and of a deep sea-green tint. He has also received from the same city a remarkably fine topaz, said to be worth $56,000. These gems have been, it is thought, forced into the market by the pressure of hard times induced in Russia through the present war.
—Mr. Darwin must look to his laurels. A Japan correspondent says that he saw wrought in inlaid wood on a door in the great temple of Ligmoto, a scene showing first a monkey, then an ape, then a gorilla, and so on up by gradual development until the final one of the series was a perfect man, surrounded by elephants and curious birds. The door was several hundred years old.
—Sir Rutherford Alcock, in his inaugural address before the Royal Geographical Society of Great Britain, has made an earnest appeal to the British to join in the work of civilizing Africa. He said that since the great discoveries of the fifteenth century so magnificent a field for well-directed effort had never presented itself. Three great objects were to be kept in view in regenerating Africa: “The development of avast trade, the civilization of the people, and the suppression of. the slave trade.” Great Britain had, he stated, during the last seventy years, expended in abolishing slavery not less than £70,000,000. He believed that there were' no great o bstacles in the way
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of at once commencing to supersede the trade in human beings by legitimate commerce.	'
- Books and. Periodicals.
I	—We have received the Irish-American Almanac for
1878. It is a work highly creditable to the compilers, and will without doubt have a large sale. Besides the calendars, etc., the volume contains many readable articles, biographies, etc. Price, 25 cts. Publishers, Lynch, £» Cole & Meehan, No. 57 Murray St., New York.
—We have just received the January number of Our Young Folks' Magazine, which is now entering upon its second year. This excellent magazine for young people contains stories of travel and adventure, sketches of natural history, anecdotes, puzzles, etc., etc., etc. It is the best magazine of its kind in the United States; and all who would keep their children from the Frank Leslie sensational, soul-destroying literature should subscribe for it. Young boys must have something to read, and this magazine is the something to be given them.
—The Catholic World for January comes to us filled with choice and instructive reading. The articles are varied and will repay a careful reading. The contents are: I, Between the Years; II, Christianity as an Historical Religion; III, To the Witch-Hazel; IV, The Wolf-Tower; V, Mr. Froude on the Decline of Protestantism; VI, A Ramble after the Waits; VII, The Descent of Man; VIII, Mickey Casey’s Christmas Dinner-Party; IX, Catholic “ Circles ” for Working-men in France; X, The River’s Voice (Poem); XI, Papal Elections; XII, How Steen-wykerwold was Saved; XIII, The Year of Our Lord 1877 ; XIV, New Publications.
-	—We have the one great fault to find with The Popular
* Science Monthly that its articles savor a little too much of Materialism. Were it not for this we could give it great praise. As it is, the Monthly is a necessity to the man of science. The contents of the January number, now before us, are: I, The Growth of the Steam-Engine; II, HealthMatters in Japan; III, Illustrations of the Logic of Science; IV, The Archer-Fishes; V, Temperaments; VI, The Ice Age; VII, Teachings of a Day; VIII, History of the Dynamical Theory of Heat; IX, Style; X, Our SixFooted Rivals; XI, Sketch of Prof. Joseph Le Conte (With ’ Portrait); XII, Correspondence; XIII, Editor’s Table;
Literary Notices; Popular Miscellany; Notes.
New Music.
—From Oliver Ditson & Co. we have an acceptable budget of new music, including a Romance by Rubinstein; (whose portrait appears on the title), an elegant Mazurka called Frauenlob, which means “ Praise the Ladies,” and an easy and pretty Transcription of ‘‘Sweet By-and-By,” by Warren. There is also Gounod’s pure and sweet song, “ The White Dove,” the German Folks-S mg called “The Little Bird,” with German and English words, and lastly “ Come and Cheer Me, Little Treasure,’’ simple song and chorus of the kind that most people like to sing.”
—Hugh Gough, of Borou^Ztbridge, was a rough soldier on a furlouyZt, but a man of doughty deeds in war, thow^Zi before he fou^Zitfor this country he was a thoroupZi, doughfaced plouyZtman. His horse having been houghed in an engagement with the enemy, Hugh was taken prisoner, and, I ought to add, was kept on a short enough clough, of food, and suffered from dro?iyZit as well as from hunger. Having on his return home drank too large a draw^rZit of usquebau/yZt, he became intoxicated, and was law^/ting, cowyZting and hic-couyZiing by a trowpZi, against which he sought to steady himself. There he was accused by another rough, who showed him a cough which he had caught on a clough near; also the slou^Zt of a snake, which he held at the end of a tough hough of a ent/Zi-tree, and which his shaggy i	shou</Zi had found and had browyZtt to him from the entrance
of a sough which ran throuyA and drained a slough that was close to a lough in the neighborhood.
—A magpie was in the habit of hiding bits^of food, not immediately wanted, in some long grass at the bottom of a row of iron hurdles. This hord was discovered, and often robbed by a favorite terrier. One morning Mag was observed in great excitement, hopping and chattering incessantly, rapidly repeating every word in his vocabulary at the dog, who was busily engaged in rifling the storehouse. In his search, however, he passed over a tuft of grass in which a piece of beef was concealed; Mag was at the spot in an instant, drew forth the treasure, and securely fixed it on the highest bar of the-hurdles, far above the dog’s reach. He then, at a little distance, began pluming his feathers, chattering to himself wfith a very self-satisfied air, and occasionally hopping back to take another look at his recovered meal, evidently priding him«elf on his skill. The conduct of this magpie is quite in keeping with the old adage of “Seta thief to catch a thief.” His pilfering habits are notorious. He is also a sad poacher. Not only the eggs, but the young of pheasants, patridges and other game are destroyed by the magpie; nor are the unfledged chickens or ducklings of the farm-yard safe from his mischievous attacks. In captivity he is very amusing, and notwithstanding his thieving propensities, no one can contemplate his dark, arch eye, his inquisitiveness, his familiarity, and hear his efforts at mimicry, without interest. That he is not wholly devoid of grateful feelings, the following anecdote shows: A favorite magpie had been accustomed to receive dainty bits from the mouth of its mistress. One day it perched as usual upon her shoulder and inserted its beak between her lips, not as it proved to receive, but (as the good turn deserves another) the grateful bird dropped an immense green fat caterpillar into the lady’s mouth.—[Leisure Hours. ■
It is very curious to observe ihe regularity with which we are told in the autumn that the “first frost changes the color of the leaves,” whereas the frost has nothing to do with the change. It has indeed sometimes happened in New England that the foliage has change as if by magic in a single night. So that, upon looking out of the window in the morning the eye was surprised with the spectacle of the world well-nigh on fire; and since this transformation took , place in connection with the mercury at a low point, the ’ whole affair is referred to the agency of Jack Frost. But why not refer to this prestidigitator the glowing tints of the apple, the rich crimson of the velvet peach, and the purple of the plum? Many years ago this error was pointed out by an eminent botanist, who showed that the gorgeous color of the autumn leaf came in regular process of ripening; and though botany is taught in schools, the old notion comes back with the beavers every year, showing that error, in common with truth, especially when supported by the vox populi, “risesagain,” however deservedly crushed to earth. Leaves find their parallel in man, as already observed, and, like the human species, they may ripen suddenly. If, however, any one chooses to make a mystery of the intensity of the autumnal colors, there should be no greatdifficul’tyinexplainingiheuarZeZy. Indeed,theappa-rent superiority over the strength of color in the foliage on the Continent of Europe may be attributed chiefly to this variety. In Great Britain the climate is evidently unfavorable to the production of bright forest-tones, but in parts of Germany the brilliancy of certain kinds of leaves is quite equal to that of the corresponding var ieties in North America. At the same time the greens of Europe are quite different from those of our laud, where, beginning with the burnt green in the South, we pass northward along the Atlantic seaboard, reaching the true green of the greatest of the hay producing States, the Slate of Maine. Every one has noticed the unparalleled green of the “Emerald Isle, ” which becomes a pale sea-green in Scotland, a whitish-green in the south of England and in France—only to change to an ashen-green in Germany, and a sombre olive in the Italian States. But we were remarking upon the variety of the autumnal tints in our own country. This is explained by the fact that while in Europe there are only forty trees that attain to a height of thirty feet, in North America there are no less than one hundred and forty— hence our, forests flash like the plane tree that “the Persian adorns with his mantles and jewels.—Catholic Standard."

280
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame. December 39, 1S77.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
hoice Poetry, Essays, and the cu rrent Art, Musical and Liter-ry Gossip of the. day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Passing Year.
In a few days the year 1877 will be numbered among , the past. It seems but a fortnight since we welcomed its birth. How many changes have taken place! Lips that on its birth wished us “A happy New Year” have since been sealed in death! hearts that beat warmly with high hopes for the future are now as cold as the marble that marks their resting place. How many good resolutions has it seen broken, brilliant anticipations clouded, and plighted vows discarded! How many hearts has it beheld crushed, bleeding, as the grave closed from their sight their nearest and dearest friends! How often has it witnessed the death of the young, the pure and the beautiful! Its brief career is covered with man’s actions, laden with acts of charity and cruelty,—deeds that make the angels weep and rejoice. It is now swiftly and sadly departing to the realms of Eternity, with deeds that it were better for the name of man had never been committed. Nor can wealth, power or influence stay its onward course or erase one line from its fearful record.
Its first-born, Spring, made its appearance—its smile disclosing the beauties of nature, releasing with its warm breath the streams from their icy manacles, welcoming the feathered warblers of the forest, opening the tender petals of the lily and rose, wafting their sweet fragrance on the air—its genial smiles softening the rudeness of the earth, and even creeping into the heart of man, compelling him to bless his Creator—its softening rays reminding man that the time had arrived to cultivate the soil in order to reap its fruits. But at length Spring, the beautifier of nature, the delight of childhood, the staff of old age, the loveliest of the seasons, took her departure ’midst the murmur of the fountains. She was succeeded by her queensister, Summer, who came clothed in robes of green. At
her approach all nature arose, chanting the praises of the great Creator.
She perfected the work her sister had begun: the trees of the forest were covered with leaves, offering us shelter from the mid day sun; she presented us with a profusion of the most luscious fruits, inviting us to partake of their sweetness; she strewed the earth with innumerable flowers whose beauty pleased the eye and whose fragrant odor was borne on every breeze to delight the senses; she invited us to wander through wood and forest, to feast our eyes on the wondrous works of her Creator. At night she spangled the heavens with millions of golden stars, inviting us to raise our thoughts and hearts on high. After bringing all the fruits of the earth to maturity, she introduced her brother Autumn, and departed. He lingered for a few day, admiring the work of his sister; but he is unable to impart her smiles. The leaves of the trees assume the most varied and beautiful colors—but alas! the hand of death is already upon them. The ear is no longer delighted with the songs of the birds; the days become shorter and the evenings cooler; the leaves drop one by one on the damp earh; the naked trees look on in dispair at the decay of nature, and even man partakes of the melancholy that hangs over the world. Whatever disappointments or sorrows, he resigns himself in pensive meditation over them. The leaves, the withered roses, remind him of cherished hopes long since crushed to the earth; the fallen leaves, the dead flowers, the short days and the dirge of the warning that he too is morral, and that he should be ripe in good works when the reaper, Death, comes to gather him into the harvest. After changing the face of nature, Autumn takes his leave to make way for dread Winter. He makes his appearance attended by hail, wind and snow. All nature bows at his approach. The shrubs and trees surrender the last remnant of their vesture at his appearance; the brooks cease their murmuring as he advances to embrace them, and his cold breath arrests the onward course of the rivers. He casts his'shroudlike mantle on the earth, and all nature is compelled to wear in All the beauties of the other seasons that gave us so much pleasure perish at his approach.
*********
But while the seasons were thus changing the face of nature, were we in any way changing ? In the Spring, did we sow the seed of virtue and knowledge ? Have we improved the condition of our own mind, or been the cause of improvement to others? Have we acquired knowledge that will be of practical use to ourselves or society at large ? Have we discovered and laid up during the summer of life truths that will console us in the winter of our age? Or have we, like the butterfly, lived through the summer without any thought of the future? Are we satisfied with the labor of the past year? Is there any duty that yet remains unperformed? Finally, have we spent our time and employed our talents to the best advantage?
These are questions that force themselves at this season of the year upon all, but especially on the student. He is freed from the cares of the world,—away from its distractions and temptations, in order that he may improve himself and benefit society at large. The world depends on the schools for its future men; and although we may be of small account in our own estimation, and perhaps in the estimation-of. our professors, yet society will expect some return for the time spent at school.
At this season of the year the merchant takes an in-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
281
ventory of his goods and balances his accounts, in order to discover his profits and make preparations for the coming year. The mechanic counts up his savings of the closing year, places it out at interest in order that the original capital may increase. We too should carefully go over our books in order that we may be able to discover our mental gains and consider how we may increase them. If we find that we are deficient, we should set to work like the cautious merchant, to discover the cause of our deficiency—and having discovered it, resolve to employ our time in such a manner as will in a measure make up for the loss; The school is the market in which we have invested our capital, time, and we are sure to obtain an equivalent in proportion to the manner we employ our capital.
In the world, two persons may commence business with equal capital; one will become wealthy, the other bankrupt. The success of the one, the failure of the other, are owing to the different manner in which they employed their capital. We have found by expecieuce that Euclid was correct when he asserted that “there was no royal road to knowledge,” no pretended machines for turning out ready-made educated men. The paths leading to the mount are narrow and rugged, often strewn with thorns. He who desires to reach the summit must not expect to ride, nor will the surmounting of a few obstacles make the road' clear. Mountains must be scaled, rocks climbed, and streams forded; nor must we tarry along about the gardens of pleasure or the bowers of ease. We may possess brilliant genius, but unless we court comely applications we will never gain our object
Order.
The habit of order, or regularity, is one which all should strive to possess, but unfortunately it is one which many disregard in a greater or less degree.
Young people, in particular, should strenuously endeavor to acquire a habit of order in all their undertakings. It has been asserted by an eminent writer that young men are hindered more by a want of order than by any other cause from arriving at positions of honor and great usefulness. Nothing great can ever be achieved, even though we possess many brilliant qualities, without order, which disposes in a proper manner the means necessary to the accomplishment of any end. From this may be seen the necessity of cultivating, from earliest youth, habits of order and regularity. Without them, little can be achieved; with them, everything is possible. From an active and energetic mind much may be expected, but if we perceive order is wanting to it we readily conclude that there is that possibility of failure, even in important matters.
The want of order is with some a constitutional defect; with others, the result of habit,—or perhaps, more correctly speaking, the want of a proper training. Now there is no place better adapted to assist a young man in obtaining the great qualification above spoken of—no place in which surrounding circumstances combine in assisting him to obtain it better than at college. Here, order is the rule, not for one, but for all; and the force of example is a greater help than any other to those who would lay aside any disorderly habits they may have heretofore acquired.
But even in college the old habits will not be conquered or put away without an effort at obtaining, the mastery,
and people are occasionally to be met with who wish to have exceptions made in their favor—exceptions from rules laid down by experienced men for the good government and happiness of those committed to their care. It is quite evident that one who tries in every possible manner to evade certain rules to which he should rather submit with as good a grace as possible, is out of the way which leads to a habit of order and regularity. Were such a one to reflect seriously upon the matter, and weigh well his own interests, he would undoubtedly find that true happiness consists not in evading laws and rules, but in faithfully observing them, for what is done at first by constraint soon becomes a habit, and from being disagreeable becomes a source of true pleasure, for a victory over one’s irregular self gives a wise man more pleasure than anything else.
With young persons it appears to be, not unfrequently, a sort of forgetfulness, which begets in them this want of regularity; but what now seems only the trifling fault of forgetfulness will not avail them anything in after life, when they find themselves grown old in disorderly habits, habits that proved unconquerable and will follow them to the grave, but which a few slight efforts in youth would have enabled them to overcome.
The man of order never inconveniences himself or others by irregularity or by insubordination to those regulations and restrictions that have been imposed by those who understand human nature and would curb its evil propensities. The man of order is known by his very appearance. In society, as at home, he will always prove himself the true type of a gentleman, by carefully avoiding the violation of even the least of the rules proper to good behavior; and he is one with whom it is a pleasure to associate. If we carefully examine into the lives of great men, we will find them, as a rule, to have been thoroughly imbued, even from earliest boyhood, with a love of order, and the lives of great men can in this much be imitated by the intelligent youth of our age. Would it not therefore be advisable for young men to copy this excellent characteristic, and lay the foundation for a life of usefulness that will end only at the grave ?—nay, even, the fruits of which will embalm their memories long after they have departed for a better world.
The disorderly man has few, if any, friends, while the man of order is beloved by all. The one is always unhappy, and renders every one with whom he comes in contact as unhappy as himself, while the other is a model of contentment. As nothing great can be accomplished ' without earnest application to the object in view, so nothing great can be accomplished with any degree of success without order, for order is Heaven’s first law.
Personal.
—We are pleased to see Rev. Father Cooney with us again.
—John Lambin (Commercial), of ’77, paid us a visit dur ing the holidays.	,
—Edward O’Brien (Commercial), of ’68, is in the Globe Democrat office, St. Louis, Mo.
—William B. Small (Commercial), of’68, is in the lumber business at Wilmington, Ill. •
—Arthur Murphy (Commercial), of ’68, is connected with the Lindell House, St Louis, Mo.
—John J. Gillen, of ’75, -received tonsure at the late ordinations at Troy, N. Y. Mr. Gillen belongs to the diocese of Boston.
282	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Burritt Hinsdale, of ’68, is considered by the New Yorkers one of the best phdnographers in the United States.
—E. Gillen (Commercial), of ’72, died at his father's residence, South Bend, Ind., on Wednesday, Dec. 12th. His funeral took place on Dec. 14th.
—Mr. John Gibbons, of ’67, of Keokuk, Iowa, has been visiting his brother, Hon. P. Gibbons, of South Bend. We were pleased to see him at Notre Dame.
—M. Dillon (Commercial), of’77, and P. W. Hennessy, also of ’77, have entered into partnership and are doing a good business at Valparaiso, Indiana.
—The Hon. John Gibbons, of Keokuk, Iowa, is in the city, visiting his brother at the Grand Central. He paid us a call on Saturday last and we find him a very pleasant and agreeable gentleman.—South Bend Herald.
—As we were preparing for press we bad the pleasure of a visit from Mr. Wm. J. Clarke, of ’74. He has been for some time engaged in the profession of the law in Columbus, Ohio, where for a young practitioner he has succeeded in working up an excellent practice.
—It is seldom that a newspaper man is called upon to write up a local like the following; as we are compelled to do so we will make the best of it The truth is, that L. G. Tong, in his right mind, without being asked, called at our < ffice and paid for a professional card and subscription for The Herald for two years in advance. Think of this, ye newspaper editors, and then say times are not getting brighter.—South Bend Herald.
Local Items.
—A happy new year!
—The lakes have been open all winter.
—So far, we may consider this winter a failure.
—The Seniors had quite a sociable Christmas evening.
—The great American humorist has started on his travels.
—The boys remaining here have made out to enjoy themselves.
—The Soholasticate has been removed to the Presbytery building.	'
—Santa Claus paid his usuil visit to the Minims on Christmas Eve.
—To one and all of our one thousand subscribers we wish A Happy New Year!
—The Psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are the same as those sung on Christmas Day.
—The pupils of the Manual Labor School enjoyed a merry Christmas; everything about their house goes on finely.
—The Editor of the Scholastic thanks B. Crispinian for a fine lunch furnished a number of young gentlemen on Wednesday. .
—Messrs. A. Burger and F. Cavanaugh have taken charge of the Juniors’ study-hall during the absence of G. Sugg and G. Cassidy.
—The members of the First Grammar Class speak of the lunch given them by their teacher as the “ boss lunch of the season.”
—It was a comic spectable to see about fifty or sixty Seniors last Friday in pursuit of a rabbit; he outran the Juniors a few days before.
—The Juniors are under obligation to B. Edward for a large table for their play-hall. It comes very useful during the holidays to play authors, checkers, etc.
—Boxes by the wholesale arrived during the week. The boys all seem to be very generous in sharing the contents of their boxes between their chums and companions.
—Prof. Edwards allowed all the students free access to the Circulating Library during the holidays. Besides, receiving papers from Rev. Father Hudson, and others, they were in nowise short of reading matter.
—On Christmas Eve; Matins and Lauds were solemnly chanted. After the Office, Solemn High Mass at midnight
was sung at which all the students attended. Solemn	,
High Mass was ulso sung at 10 o’clock. In the afternoon
solemn Vespors were sung.	.
—The Catholic Mirror of Baltimore, Md., issued, Dec-22d, its Christmas supplement of four pages, containing a‘ number of interesting Catholic tales. Tne Mirror shows every sign of prosperity. It is a really good paper, and deserves the support which we believe it receives.
—Each number of Vick's Illustrated Monthly Magazine contains thirty-two pages of reading, many fine wood cut illustrations, and one colored plate. It is a beautiful garden magazine, printed on elegant paper, and full of information. lu English and German. Price, §1.25 a year; five copies,	*
§5.00. Vick’s Flower and Vegetable Garden, 50 cents in paper covers; in elegant cloth covers, §1.00. Vick’s Catalogue,—300 illustrations, only 2 cents. Address, James Vick, Rochester, N. Y.	.
—Rev. Father L'Etourneau received on Christmas Day a beautifully decorated top for the new organ in the Chapel of the Portiuncula. It comes, as did the organ, from the manu-faclory of Messrs. Clough & Warren, Detroit, and is really ■ a handsome piece of work. It is surmounted by a finely proportioned ornamental cross, finished in oil to suite the style of the organ. It is truly a novelty in parlor organs, and well adapts these organs for chapels and religious houses.
’ —The Catholic Review comes out with a Christmas supplement filled with good reading. The Review is an earnest and eloquent defender of the Church. The proprietors have on hand a project which we believe will be success-	।
ful and will supply a long-felt want. They have begun the publication of what they call the Vatican Library of amusing, entertaining and instructive Catholic literature.
The first volume of the series is Fabiola, price 25 cis. Tnis will be followed by other works of merit to coit even less. We wish the enterprise good speed.	• ye
—The weather has, during the past week or two, been such as scarcely the oldest inhabitant has ever seen in this northern latitude of ours. Alternating with smiles and tears, it gives no idea of winter, but rather resembles early June. No frost, no snow. Sometimes genial and balmy, at others drizzly or foggy. Open air exercises are in order betimes, and fuel is at a discount. We were hoping to see the boats out o i the 1-tke during Christmis, but in this we were disappointed, although the weather was more than favorable. If the warm spell continues we should not be much surprised to see them out at New Years.	‘
—On Thursday of last week, Rev. Father Zahm gave the second lecture in his course, the subject chosen being Magnetism and Electro-Magnetism. He treated the subject at length, and gave many practical illustrations of it. The kinds of magnets known were explained and shown. The means and ways of forming the artificial were thoroughly illustrated. The magnetism of the earth, and the	.
formation of magnetic bars when inclined to the dip, next engaged his attend m. Tnen the connection between magnetism and electricity was explained, and the theories.
thereon founded were unfolded. At the conclusion of his lecture the Rev. Father treated the audience to a number	'
of views with the lantern.
—The Senior and Junior departments joined together	j
and held a grand soiree oa Wednesday evening in the Senior study-hall. The instrumental music was furnished by the Senior Orchestra, and was excellent. Jigs and clogs were danced by Messrs. J. Prudhomme, J. Devine, and J. Stewart. A declamation was given by Mr. E. Arnold in a very effective manner. A stump speech was given amid great applause by Mr. J.Prudhomme, who finished up with an excellent rendition of his famous song, “The Medical Student.” Mr. W. Jones also addressed the audience in some soul-stirring remarks. The applause which greeted him was immense. Tnere were other things given, and the fun ran high, but we have no further space.
—The editor of the Ave Maria announces that during the following year Lady Georgiana Fullerton, author of “Ellen Middleton,” “Grantley Manor,” “Lady Bird,” etc.,	,
has promised, if healtn permits, to contribute during the	4
year a new story which will be duly announced. It will re- • place the charming story, “ Nora,” now publishing, which
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
283

grows in interest as it draws towards the close. He hopes to have the pleasure of publishing an occasional contribution from the eminent poet, Aubrey de Vere, whose verses have graced the pages of the Ace Maria in times past. The author of “ Ty borne ” has sent him the first instalment of a charming new story, written expressly for the Ave Maria, entitled “The Stoneleighs of Stoneleigh.” Henri Lasserre, the renowned author of “ Our Lady of Lourdes,” whose literary labors are consecrated exclusively to our Blessed Lady, has promised to contribute something on his cbcsen theme. Eliza Allen Starr, so favorably known to the readers of the Are Maria, remarkable for grace and tenderness, and beautiful simplicity of style, will be, as heretofore, a frequent contributor. Rev. Father Adam, whose letters and sketches have been so widely read and so much admired, will continue to instruct and entertain all by descriptions of the famous Shrines of the Blessed Virgin in Spain, etc. The Misses Howe, the gifted authors of “A Visit to Louise Lateau,” “Pilgrimages Abroad,” “The Feast of the Holy Rosary at the Tomb of St. Dominic,” etc., etc., will recall other delightful memories of foreign lands for their admiring readers. He hopes to be able to publish during the year a sketch of the Life of the illustrious and Ven. Father Liber-mann, who died in the odor of sanctity only a few years .ago. He was a Jewish convert, and was distinguished for his tender devotion to the Mother of God. The name of the American Adelaide Procter, Eleanor C. Donnelly, is a familiar one to the readers of the Ave Maria. We are happy to assure them of the continuance of her poetical contributions, which have always been so highly appreciated. “Arthur” will not only continue to send his oc-cosional letters from Rome, but will contribute other articles from time to time. His account of the “ Caravita ” in Rome, which appeared in a recent number, delighted every one. Besides the above, he announces a series of articles on the Blessed Virgin from the graceful and able pen of Mgr. Gaume, which are now being translated for the Ace Maria. Also “ Rays from the Tabernacle,” by M. L. M., Author of the “ Confessors of Connaught,” “ Stars of Our Lady,” etc., whose sketches are so lively and entertaining. The publication of this series was announced for last year, but has been unavoidably delayed. A shorter story of great interest will soon be begun for the benefit of new subscribers. “Marie,” A. M. G., Maurice F. Egan, R. V. R., and others, will continue their welcome contributions. He will continue to publish, as heretofore, the Weekly Bulletin of the Association of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, a record of remarkable cures effected by the miraculous water, of Lourdes, etc. The Ave Maria numbers among its contributors several of tlie Rt. Rev and Rev. Clergy, who generously devote to it what time they can spare from other duties; also the distinguished author, Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey, Author of “ The Flemings,” “Tangled Paths,” etc., etc.; Kathleen O’Meara (“ Grace Ramsay”), Mr. John O’Kane Murray, Author of the “ Popular History of the Catholic Church in the U. S.,” etc., the Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars,” and others, from whom contributions may be expected more or less regularly. Several new writers have been engaged for the Children’s Department, which he promises to make as entertaining and instructive as possible. A new story by the Author of “Tyborne,” “The Wise Nun of Easton-mere,” etc., will begin the new year. Miss Eliza Allen Starr will also contribute to this department. An Account of the “City of St. Ambrose,” in her happiest style, will appear in an early number. A charmingly written sketch of the Life of Columbus, prepared especially for this department of the Ave Maria, may be expected early in the year.
Roll of Honor.
[In the following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, M. W. Bannon, J. Boehm, J. E. Cooney, J. M. Devine, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, J. J. Fitzgerald, R. Francis, J. Fuerstein, G. Goble, H. Hagan, A. Hertzog, T. Hale, A. J. Hettinger, J. Knobel, J. Kelly, P. W. Mattimore, W.
J. Murphy, J. Murphy, H. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, F. C. Mueller, H. Maguire, J. J. McEniry, P. F. McCullough, J. J. McConlogue, T. F. O’Grady, W. L. Prudhomme, R. Price, E. Poor, R. Routledge, J. Rothert, J. Rice, G. Saxinger, F. Hellman, F. Walter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Abrahams, R. M. Anderson, J. Berteling, M. T. Burns, .H. E. Canoil, J. Carrer, F. T. Clarke, A. J. Burger, R. French, L. Garceau, J. Guthrie, F. E. Carroll, F. Cavanaugh, J. L. Healy, C. Johnson, R. Johnson, W. Jones, J. Matthews, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, J. Lumley, J. A. Larkin, J. D. McNellis, T. O’Hara, R. Pleins, F. Pleins, J. L. Perea, E. J. Pennington, J. Schobey, 8. Wei tv, F. Weisert, J. 8. O’Donnell, J. L. Lemarie, A Hamilton, J. R. Lawton.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. McDevitt, A Bushey, C. Crennan, Jas. and J. Courtney, J. Seeger, F. Gaffney, R. Costello, C. Welty, C. Crowe, J. Crowe, 8. Bushey, C. Bushey, C. Long, O. Farrelly, F. Farrelly, T. O’Neil.

—Miss Kate Young is visiting St. Mary’s. She will remain for a few weeks.
—The ferns and primroses of the Studio are remarkably lovely this week. A fine plant of the last named is blossoming luxuriantly.
—The Seniors’ Study Hall, the Sodality Room, and the Studio vie with each other in the cultivation of exotic plants. These house-plants impart a very cheerful aspect to the Academy.
—The pupils of the Art Department were much rejoiced a week or two ago to welcome back Miss Genevieve Walsh. She is an ardent lover of Art, and, endowed by nature with superior talents, bids fair to excell.
—The dormitory occupied by the Children of Mary is very beautiful. The white curtains of the beds are surmounted by azure blue canopies. The floor is carpeted with azure blue, and the entire room has assumed a very lovely appearance.
—Some very handsome scarfs for dear younger brothers, as well as for the beloved fathers of those who made them, have been praised by all who visited the work-room for the past month, also many lovely toilet articles have called forth equal admiration. It would be pleasant to give names but the list would be too long were all to be mentioned who deserve it.
—A large quantity of ornamental needle-work has been executed by the pupils to furnish Christmas gifts for friends. The greater proportion of this work has been painted in water-colors by the expert hands whose skill is the pride of St. Luke’s Studio. Many toilet cushions, handkerchief cases, watch-cases aud the like, after finishing up iu the ornamental work-room have been taken to receive their most complete touch, their master beauty, from the magic brush of the artist.
—Painting on “brick a-brac," or “porcelain painting” has lately been introduced into St. Luke’s Studio. This art is one deserving of warm encouragement. The greater the skill in painting the more beautiful and precious will be the work. Young ladies who do not know how to fill up time if they choose can not only employ their spare moments well, but can produce exquisite proofs of industry and taleut to grace the festive board simply by giving attention to this new and interesting branch, that of painting on china ware. Miss Kate Young has brought specimens of her own work from Cincinnati. She intends to complete an entire table set. The skill she has acquired in the use of the brush under the shadow of St. Luke’s Studio gives her a great advantage.
—On Monday evening the “Editorial Corps of Rosa Mystica, that is to say, the Graduating and First Senior Classes, were served to a delightful surprise feast in the ladies’ refectory. Mother Superior presided at one table, and the Prefect of Studies at the other. Mrs. M. M. Phelan, Mrs. H. A. Redman aud Miss Maude Mary Perley, were
284
!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	;
present as invited guests. Wit and mirth, repartee and anecdote, interspersed with poetic and sage suggestions, rendered the occasion sweetly memorable. When the repast was over, Mother Superior remarked that the feast they had just partaken was but the auspicious introduction, as she trusted, to the beautiful Christmas season, and she said that she hoped those who were to leave St. Mary’s to pass the holidays would find nothing more to mar their pleasure than had transpired at the little surprise feast of the Graduate and First Senior Classes.
—On Tuesday morning a large number of young ladies left the Academy to pass their Christmas holidays with their parents at home. The evening previous, Mother Superior assembled the pupils in the study-hall to address them, particularly those who were to leave on the approaching festivities. She expressed her regret at their early departure; but said that at present this could not be; changed. She said that she was sorry for what must be, that those who remained, would be at least a week in advance of those who who left. Their studies must of course suffer for the interruption. Nevertheless -she merely touched upon this consideration, as she wished to dwell more especially upon the manner in which, while at home, the young ladies should prove their gratitude to parents and guardians. By way of introduction, she recommended great circumspection on their homeward journey, as well as on their return to St. Mary’s; urging upon them, to display on the cars, and every where, that modesty and reserve which is ever impressed upon the deportment of the true lady.
Holl of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses J. Cooney, B. Reynolds, A Piet, M. Spier, P. Gaynor.
1st Senior Class—Misses AL Ewing, S. Moran, C. Boyce, B. Wilson.
2d Sr. Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Way, B. Thompson, A. Woodin, N. Davis, M. Danaher.
3d Sr. Class—Misses M. Brown, T. Pleins, M. Galen, L. Otto, AL Sullivan, L. Schwass, K. Hackett, M. Wagoner, K. Riordan, A Ewing, A. Kirchner, A. Gordon, M. Mulligan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses M. Hayes, S. Rheinboldt, L. Chilton, E. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Mullen, F. Fitz.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Jr. Prep Class—Misses AL Hake, A. McKinnis, L. Fox, L. Wood, L. Ellis, N. Hackett, M. McFadden, L. French.
1st Jr. Class—Misses H. Lloyd, E. Wootten.
LANGUAGES. .
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Latin Class—Misses J. Cooney, A. Piatt.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Plattenburg, M. Luce, 0. Franklin.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st French Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, N. Keenan.
2d Class—Misses S. Moran, M. Ewing, N. Galen, B. Reynolds, J. Cooney.
3d Class—Misses A. Ewing, M. and E. Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses M. Danaher, L. Chilton, L. French.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
2d German Class—Misses A Kirchner, D. Gordon.
2d Div.—Miss 8. Rheinboldt.
3d Class—Misses AL Way, C. Boyce.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
2d Dit.—Miss C. Silverthorne.
2d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, A Harris, N. Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses N. Galen, M. Spier.
3d Class, 2d Div.—Misses G. Welch, A. Gordon.
4th Class—Misses A. Kirchner, AL Brown, W. Dudley.
2d Div.—Misses J. Cooney, P. Gaynor, K. Hackett.
5th Class—Misses K. Reordan, AL Danaher, At. Mullen.
2d Div.—Misses M. Way, B. Thompson, L. French.
6th Class—Misses N. Hackett, S. Rheinboldt, C. Boyce, A Thomas, Al. Plattenburg, A. and AL Ewing.
2d Div.—Miss E. Tighe.
7th Class—Misses L. Chilton, AL Cox, A McKinnis.
8th Class—Misses L. Wood, L. Ellis.
9th Class—Misses AL AfcFadden, E. Wooten.
Organ—Miss W. Dudley.	•
Harmony—Misses Wilson, T. Pleins, L. Kirchner,
ART DEPARTAfENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE 3d Class—Miss S. Rheinboldt 4th Class—Afisses G. Welsh, M. Plattenburg, A. Kirchner. 5th Class—Misses E. Mulligan, L French.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Afisses L. Kirchner, 8. Moran, B. Reynolds, P. Gaynor, AL O’Connor.
4th Class—Misses N. Davis, AL Spier. OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Afisses E. Lange, P. Gaynor, B. Reynolds.	, i
4th Class—Afisses N. Davis, AL O’Connor.
Tablet of Honor	1
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	j
Afisses J. Cooney, B. Reynolds, A Piet, AL Ewing, 8. Aforan,	'
C. Boyce, W. Dudley, C. Silverthorne, M. Way, N. Davis, A.	'
Woodin, L. Kirchner, AL Danaher, G. Welch, K. Reordan, L.
Otto, AL Brown, M. Wagoner, T. Pleins, AL Plattenburg, K. Hackett, A. Thomas, L. Schwass, B. Anderson, AL Sullivan, M. Galen, S. Rheinboldt, AL Hayes, AL Mullen, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Spier, P. Gaynor, B. Thompson, N. Keenan; L. Tighe.	,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A Gordon, A Kirchner, M. Mulligan, L. Chilton, L. . Ellis, L. Wood, L. Fox, A. AfeKinnis, M. Hake, L. French, E. Mulligan, 100 par excellence. Afisses AL McFadden, M. Cox.
A NEW SYSTEM OF German Penmanship. ■ --------------
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FR. PTTSTET, 52 Barclay Street, NEW YORK, an! 204 Vine Street, CiNCINM.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beautifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given- on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	285
C. .& N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its	•
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and'Central Minnesota. Its
' GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A m' smith, h. riddle,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KA^SAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices ■	at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, Il., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou's Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express..8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation..................9	20	am	5	00	pm
•I. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
A NEW DRAMA.
“THE UPSTART;”
A Comedy in Three Acts, adapted from the French of
Moliere’s
LE BOURGEOIS GENTILHOMME,
and arranged for Male Characters only,
By A. J. STAGE; and Edited by
JOSEPH A. LYONS.
1
This play is dedicated to the Members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association,—the former, present and yet to be.
Price 25 Cents.
“ The Upstart ” has been played at Notre Dame a number of times. Parts in this drama have been taken by Messrs. Berdel, Dodge, Ashton, Roberts, Foote, Dwyer, Wile, Foley, W. Dodge, Clarke, Mahony, Staley, Dum, Hutchings, Cochrane, Spillard, Nash, McHugh, Brown, Reilly, McGinnis, McOsker, Rumely, Goodhue, Shanks, Hunt and others. Hence
« Every Member of the St. Cecilia Philomathean
Association,
PAST AND PRESENT,
should procure a copy.
jty Sent post free on receipt of. price.
P. FOX, Publisher,
14 SOUTH FIFTH ST.,
'	ST. LOUIS, HO.
286
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	THE SUN. *
:------
rounded 1842.	' Chartered 1844. 1878.	- NEW YOBK.	1878.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind
THE “AVE MARIA,”
CLA.’rrEcox.ic journal
woM la the anor of the taed
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
As the time approaches for the renewal of subscriptions, THE SUN would remind its friends and wellwishers everywhere, that t is again a candidate for their consideration and support. Upon its record for the past ten years it relies for a continuance of the hearty sympathy and generous co-operation which have hitherto been extended to it from every quarter of the Union.
The ©ally Sun is a four-page sheet of 28 columns, price by mail, post paid, 55 cents a month, or §6.50 per year.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is an eight-page sheet of 56 columns. While giving the news of the day, it also contains a large amount of literary and miscellaneous matter specially prepared for it. The Sunday Sun has met with great success. Post paid, $1,20 a year.
The w eekly Sun.
Who does not know The Weekly Sun ? It circulates throughout the United States, the Canadas, and beyond. Ninety thousand families greet its welcome pages weekly, and regard it in th e light of guide, counsellor, and friend. Its news, editorial, agricultural, and literary departments make it essentially a journal for the family and the fireside. Terms: One ©ollar a year, post paid. This price, quality considered, makes it the cheapest news-paper published. For clubs of ten, with §10 cash, we will send an extra copy free. Address
PUBLISHER OF THE SUN, New York City.


J
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS IX., ABD MAH EMM PREUTES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere, . Grace Ramsay, Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author oe “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
-	TEHMS:
One Year.....................................$	2 50
Five Years....................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of S2 each)..20 00 A specimen copy sent free to any address on application. Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MABIA
Notre Dame, Indiana. Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chamber St. New York.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a :emale academy. AU the branches of a rolld and complete education are taught here. Music, both v^c il and instrumental, and the modern Jan uages, form prominent features in the course of instruction. •.
Particular attention is paid to the relieious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominatiolns are received, and for tne sake of order required to attend the pubic religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious’ suited to the educ"-tional requirements of the day. and furnished with all m dern improvements. Every portion of the bnildit g is heated by steam, -and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartm ents.
The grounds are veryextens’ve. beautifully adorned, and situated in that charmng seclusion wnich is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two insri utions to each other-is a gre at convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twenty-Second Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1877-8, or address	.
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
PBOPBIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mny’s.-l refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
F. SHICKEY.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
287
Attorneys at Law.
BRONVINT IIAKVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «& MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of *72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
mHOMAS R. CEIFFORD, [of *62] Attorney at
I Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING A HOG AN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Hoorn 26, Ashland Block, N. B‘. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, HI.
JOHN E. McIIUGII [of’721, Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVIEEE T. CIIAMBEREAIN (of ’61), Attorney ar Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MCBRIDE <fc MIIjIoABD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
\ * 7 IEETA M2 J. CE A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A. O’REIEEY—of ’69 —Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN X>. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and No'.ary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11. 18 7 7.
	♦Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 am 9 28 “ 10 45 “ 12 35 p.m 3 45 “ 6 45 “	9 00 a.m Il 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 40 p.m 4 05 “ b 39 “	3 45 p.m 6 20 “ 8 14 “ 10 00 “ 5 20 a.m	5 15 p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m 11 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 CO “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	4 00 a.m 6-10 “ 7 50 “ 10 30	9 50 p.m 12 45 a.u 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 2 25 a m 12 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
jXiles and South Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8f2 •	6 38 *• Ar. Niles—	9 25 “	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. +Daily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. F. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Slain St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. ST ACE [of'G4], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.,
THE CATIIOEIC COEUMBY AN. pub'ished weeklv at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame's students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin. pub'ished every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edi’ed by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, 52.50.	'
THE YOUNG FOURS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERAED, published weekly by Chae. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74- $1.59 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodiue, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rplIE ISONO IIOTJ^E. A. McKay,Prop.,Niles,Mich-I igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE Matt ESO X HOUSE, Comer of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Hinders.
FLYNN & HISGEN Plain and Fancy Book Binders, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CALLING CAROS—no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
’	Mishawaka, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial E Aposit ion of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mincra'ogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the tab’e of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, haranese, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more conveniert location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17’h day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and m most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens
25	50 loo
inbox inbox inbox
Crystals and fragments....	$ 50 $1 $1 50 |
Students’ size, larger....|	1 50	3	6
Amateur's size,2)4 in.x 1J4..................
High School or Acad, size,2 j^x3 J4 in- shelf specimens
College size, 31^x6 in., shelf specimens.....
100	200	300
$ 1	$ 2	$ 3
5	10	25
10	25	50
25	50	100
500	100	3<0
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellmo of the American Association for the Advancement of Scienc Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sentences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.	•
THE NO THE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday. Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 b m; Buffalo, 4 am.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 1 2 p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 210 am; Cleveland, 7 (5am; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 D m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago. 7 40 p m.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago. 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 0 25 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of traina from North and Southwest.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS:
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Groundhoggery, Calendars, The Months—description, etc.,
January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December, The Two Rules,
Address,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women, Pio Nono, A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q, In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer.
The Duty of our Young Men,
Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ? Sonnet, Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau tbe Tribune, Maris Stella, Aerolites.
J. A. LIONS, Notre Dame, Ind.;
or, The Scholastic Printing- Company, Notre Dame, Ind.

GOING WEST.
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
RnrhostPr ..		12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,...		3.10 A.M.	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,			4.46 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Arnnsfiplfl.			7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	....Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
FnrpRt. 				9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,			10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,............		1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	*
Plvmnnth				3.45 “	246 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago.. L-.		7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mali.
	.... Tjtaw	9.10 P.M.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
Plwmnnth			2.46 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft Wayne,				6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima.					8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
PnrARt. _. . ..				10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	1L45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline		....Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,				12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,....					2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,..............		4.05 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rnohpstp.r. ;			6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 P.M.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday. ’
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. E, MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
SAMUEL TTAYTLTLTS,
MANUFACTUBEB AMD DEALER IM
AMATEUR TOOLS,
1 ' /
FOB	X
Amateurs, Boys and Girls. 1
Turning Lathes,	Scroll Saws,	/
Hand Saws,	Saw Blades,
Fancy Woods,	New and Handsome
Small Engine Castings, designs fbr Brace-
Small Tools of all Kinds, lets, etc.	' I
Also, Pubusheb of	I
The Amateur Mechanic,
A Monthly Journal of Practical Information for Amateurs, Boys and Girls. 50 Cents per Annum.
Send Stamp for sample Copy. Address
SAMUEL HARRIS,
decs-tf 15 South Canal Street, Chicago, III. ’ >
i