t ~
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disc© quasi semper vieturus; vivo quasi eras moriturus. .
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 6, 1878.
Number 32.
He Leads us on.
He leads us on
By paths we did not know:
Upward He leads us, though our steps be slow, Though oft we faint and falter by the way, Though storms and darkness oft obscure the day, Yet, when the clouds are gone We know He leads us on.
He leads us on
Through all the unquiet years :
Past all our dreamland hopes and doubts and fears, He guides our steps. Through all the tangled maze Of sin, of sorrow, and o’erclouded days, We know His will is done ;
■ And still He leads us on.
And He at last, After the weary strife,	'
After the restless fever we call life—
After the dreariness, the aching pain—
The wayward struggles, which have proved in vain, After our toils are past— Will give us rest at last.
—Exchange.
Rhampsinitus and the Sons of the Architect.
The following story, or rather fact, which. Herodotus, the father of history, was told by the priests of Egypt during his stay in that country, was deemed by him worthy to be handed down to posterity in his memorable work of history:
King Rhampsinitus, who towards the year 1250 B. C. succeeded Proteus on the throne of Egypt, had, we are told, accumulated riches and treasures such as had never before been seen. To secure them from thieves and robbers, he built a large tower of stone, the outer wall of which was beyond the enclosure of his palace. The architect who had been charged with the execution of the work, however, had fitted one of the stones on the outside with such skill and ingenuity that one man could easily remove it and thus gain entrance to the royal treasury.
When the tower was finished, the king deposited all his riches therein, but the poor architect was not to enjoy the fruit of his contrivance. Shortly afterwards he fell dangerously ill, and feeling his end approach called his two sons to his bedside and revealed the secret to them. He clearly described the stone, and indicated the way in which they were to remove it, adding that if they would go to work with prudence and observe his prescriptions they would become masters of the monarch’s wealth.
The architect died, and his sons were not slow in carrying out their father’s plan. The very first night after hearing
’ of it, they repaired to the king’s palace, entered through the ingeniously arranged aperture and carried off a large amount of treasure. This they did several times, so that the king one day on visiting his treasury was disagreeably surprised to find the coffers half empty. He was at a loss how to explain this alarming decrease of his riches, as the whole house was well secured from without, and the royal seal on the door inside had not been broken. As he could not fix the slightest suspicion ,on anybody, and seeing his riches disappearing more and more every day, he at last resolved to place traps around the vessels containing them.
The following night our thieves paid their visit to the treasury as usual. One of them entered, and as he approached the vessels, he was at once caught in the trap. After repeated and useless efforts to extricate himself, he called to his brother who kept guard outside, bidding him come in immediately and cut off his head, lest he should be recognized and involve his whole family in his own ruin. The other, seeing their desperate situation, thought it best to do as he was bid; after decapitating his brother he carefully replaced the stone, taking the head with him.
The next morning the king visited his treasures and was astonished at seeing the body of the thief in the trap, minus the head. A close examination was then made, but to his great surprise and perplexity he could not discover how anyone could have got in. The chamber was* apparently secure at all. points, and there was no means of entrance or exit. In this dilemma he concluded to hang the corpse on the outside of the wall, and placed guards around it, ordering them to arrest anyone who would be seen to weep or seem in the least moved at the fearful spectacle.
On his return home the surviving thief was badly received by his mother, and when the latter heard that the corpse of her son was publicly exposed, she could no longer restrain her grief, but broke out in the most bitter lamentations. In her anguish she accosted her surviving son and threatened him that if within one day he would not take down and bring home the body of his brother she would denounce him to the king as the robber of his treasury and the murderer of her son. No entreaty, no supplication whatever could move the heart of the afflicted mother. The young man then arranged the following plan. He loaded several asses with leather -bottles filled with wine, and drove them before him towards the place where the body- of his brother was exposed. Arrived there, he opened two or three of the bottles and allowed the wine to spill, at the same time feigning the utmost .despair and breaking out into loud complaints at the seeming accident. The guards had no sooner perceived.tl\e wine flowing than they ran to it, and with the vessels in their
498
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
hands saved the good wine from spilling, notwithstanding all the remonstrances, the violent anger, and abusive reproaches of the ass-driver. They ingeniously endeavored to soothe his temper and to console him in his misfortune; and after they had helped-him to stop the asses they finally engaged with him in a rather social conversation. Finding him not to be such an unpleasant fellow after all, they invited him to join their party and made him drink and be merry with them. After so much kindness of course he could not resist, nor would he allow himself to be outdone in generosity by them. He gave them some of the wineskins as a present, and our brave sentinels took very copious draughts, until they finally got too much of a good thing, and, overpowered by the force of the wine, they soon fell asleep. The night was already far advanced; and the ass-driver took down the corpse of his brother, laid it on the asses, and then by way of insult shaved the right cheek of all the sentinels, and brought the corpse home to his mother.
When the king heard that the body of the thief had been stolen, he became exceedingly indignant, and determined to find out at any cost the contriver of the artifice. He brought his daughter to a public place and announced that he would give her in marriage to whomsoever would have answered satisfactorily the questions which she would propose. He had given her orders to ask each one presenting himself what had been the most clever and the most wicked action of his life, and should any boast of the affair concerning the removal of the corpse she was to seize him and have him placed under arrest.
The son of the architect, however, guessed the king’s design, and determined to outdo him in his craftiness by having recourse to another act of daring and subtlety. He cut off at the shoulder the arm of a fresh corpse, took it beneath his cloak, and went to see the king’s daughter. He was of course asked the same questions as all the others, when he coldly replied that the most wicked action he had committed was to cut off his brother’s head when caught in a trap in the king’s treasury, and the most clever thing he had ever done was to make the sentinels drunk and take away the corpse of his brother which had been hung up and so carefully guarded. At these words the princess immediately seized him and called for assistance. The thief, however, stretched out towards her the dead arm, left it in her hands, and made a speedy exit through the open door.
This event being reported to Rhampsinitus, he was greatly astonished at the shrewdness and boldness of the man. His wrath turned to admiration, and he ordered proclamations to be made in all the cities of his kingdom offering a free pardon and promising great rewards to the man if he would discover himself The thief, relying on the king’s words, presented himself, and Rhampsinitus greatly admired him and gave him his daughter in marriage, considering him to be the most clever man among all the Egyptians, whom, the priests said, were superior to all other nations.	X
—It is said that Moliere read his comedies to an elderly female servant named Lefaret; and when he perceived that the passages which he intended to be humorous and laughable had no effect on her, he altered them. He also required the players to bring their children to the rehearsals, that he might form his opinion of different passages from the natural expression of their' countenance.
A Minister’s Tribute to a Catholic Missionary.
At the fifth annual meeting of the Michigan State Pioneer Society, held at Lansing, Mich., on the 7th and Sth of February, Rev. George Duffield, D. D-, one of the members, paid ah eloquent tribute to the illustrious Jesuit Missionary, Father James Marquette, from which we take the following extract:
“ Jacques Marquette came late to his fame. 0 pen Davenport’s dictionary of biography, published in 1831, comprising the most eminent characters of all ages, nations, and professions, and you will not find even so much as his name. Other authorities are equally silent, and hence the need of -such an historical society as the present, that one of the greatest and best of the original founders of Michigan may receive his due credit. Marquette was born of honorable family at Laon in the north of France in the year 1637. In 1654 he joined the Society of the Jesuits, and in 1666 he was sent to the missions in Canada. He was the man to discover and trace from the north the wonderful Mississippi, that De Soto, the Spaniard, had first seen at the south in 1541. In 1668, according to Bancroft, he repaired to the Chippewas at the Sault to establish the mission at St. Mary, the oldest settlement begun by Europeans within the present limits of the commonwealth of Michigan. On the day of the Immaculate Conception of the Holy Virgin, in 1673, he received his orders from Frontenac to go with Joliet on his long decided journey. Taking probably the short trail through the woods, he found his companion at Point St. Ignace, where, after many remarkable vicissitudes, both in life and death, he was at length to find his grave, where his numerous friends and admirers, both French and Indians, were for so long a time to lose sight of it, and where a second time he gains his place as one of the founders of Michigan.”
Speaking of the great work which Marquette accomplished, Mr. Duffield says:
"Honor to whom honor is due, is not only a sound maxim, founded on that equity, which is the highest form of justice, but is also in just so many words one of the very first principles of Christianity itself. When I cannot give a man credit for what be really is because he belongs to another party than my own, or give him credit for what he has done because he belongs to another denomination than my own, I deserve to be consigned for the remainder of my life to a hole in the woods... . Marquette was much more than a religious enthusiast. He was a scholar and a man of science, having learned within a few years to speak with ease in six different languages. A subtile element of romance pervaded his character which not only makes it exceedingly attractive to us in the retrospect, but was no doubt one of the great sources and elements of his power and success among his beloved Ottawas, Hurons, and other of the great Algonquin tribes. All historians who have spoken of this great explorer and missionary unite in calling him ‘Thegooi Marquette,’ and his name and fame should be dear to Michigan.
“ On May 17,1673, Marquette, with the simple outfit of two birch canoes, a supply of smoked meat and Indian corn, and five men, embarked on what was then known as Lac Des Illinois, now Lake Michigan. On June 10th they came to the portage in Wisconsin, and after carrying their canoes some two miles over marsh and prairie, they committed themselves to the current that was to bear them they knew not whither; perhaps to the Gulf of Mexico,
THE NOTRE 'DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•499

perhaps to the South Sea or the Gulf of California. On June 17 where now stands Prairie du Chien, he found what he sought, ‘ and with a joy that I cannot express we steered forth our .canoes on the Mississippi, or Great River.’ The honor of this discovery has unjustly been given to La Salle, and also to Father Hennepin, but fortunately for the fame of Marquette, the true record of his labor was not left to doubtful tradition, and the hearsay testimony of Charlevoix. Among the papers discovered some 25 years ago in the archives of the college of Quebec was Marquette’s journal of his great expedition, the very map he drew, and a letter .left unfinished at the time of his death.
“On Oct. 25, 1674, he again left St. Ignace to fulfil a promise to the K-iskaskias in Illinois. On Dec. 4 he reached Chicago, hoping to ascend the river, and by a portage reach the Illinois. But the ice had closed the stream and it was too late. A winter march across the country was beyond his strength, and his two faithful companions erected a log hut and chapel, the first dwelling and the first church of the first white settlement of the city known for its great misfortune the world over— Chicago.
“ With the opening of spring the good Father again set out, and his last letter notes his progress until April 6,1675, when he was again struck by disease, and he saw that if he would die in the arms of his brethren at St. Ignace he must depart at once. Escorted by the Kaskaskais, who were deeply impressed by his zeal, he reached lake Michigan, gave orders to his faithful men to launch his canoe, and commenced his adventurous voyage along that still unknown and dangerous shore. His strength failed him so that he had to be handled like a child. He showed admirable resignation, joy, and gentleness, consoling his beloved companions and encouraging them to suffer courageously all the hardships of this voyage. On the eve of his death, which was on Friday, he told the attendant with joy that it would take place on the morrow.” . Bancroft prophesied that “ the people of the West will build his monument,” and Mr. Duffield says the time for it has come. “ There is only one regret that I should have,” he says in a private letter to one of the priests here, “ in the erection of such a monument as Bancroft long since predicted, and that is that it should be built by -our Catholic friends alone. Will they not permit us all to unite in it —Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, and the whole Northwest—and do him honor ? the monument to be of the natural rocks in that immediate vicinity, and which have been so long waiting, apparently, for such a noble purpose.”
The Chastised Grain-Usurer. -
(From the German.)
“Ahem! Should the Lord God Himself come down from the Heavens and not give me §10 a barrel for wheat, He shall not have a single grain thereof.”
When all faith and religion diminishes in man, all respect towards the things that are holy both in the sight of God and man likewise diminishes. This is especially demonstrated in our own days. With what carelessness do we hear those around us speak of God and His creatures, of His Laws, of His Church and Sacraments! It seems as if there were not one spark of religion left in them.
Friend! tell me, what art thou doing when thou cursest so fearfully the weather if it is not just now in accordance with your wishes? Behold, thou takest the Name of the
Lord thy God in vain. Tell me, who brings on rain, snow, hail, and fair weather ? Who permits the storms ? By whose power does the lightning shoot through the clouds, and the mighty thunder roll? Who gives rain, snow, and sunshine in their proper time? It is thy Sovereign Creator, by whose power all these things come and go.
It was in the summer of the year 1842 that the great drought raised the price of grain very high; it was as in the times of Elias. Not a cloud was to be seen in the welkin, and the heavens seemed as if shut towards man forever, as the dark blue hue looked down upon the parched earth. This was just what the grain-usurers, the leeches of human society, longed for. In the village of P--, near Leipa, Bohemia, there lived a farmer to whom nothing was of greater value than money, and in whom riches had implanted the landlord’s pride. Nobody was allowed to usher himself into his presence unless called for. He possessed such a farm as a nobleman might have: superabundant granaries, strutting cattle, pockets and purses filled with gold, florid fields, and dense forests. What more could a man wish ?
This peasant came to Leipa in that self-same year. It was the middle of August. A beautiful clear heaven vaulted itself over the earth. Our peasant sat in the tavern among other grain-dealers. One of them questioned him:
“Well, friend Anton, how do you sell your wheat to day ? ”
“ Ahem! If the Lord God Himself were to come down from the heavens and not give me §10 a barrel, He shall not have a single grain thereof.”
“ For God’s sake,” exclaimed many, “ Anton, are you not afraid of sinning thus ? Do not blaspheme, for God always punishes blasphemy.”
But instead of repenting, the blasphemer began to laugh loud and repeated the blasphemy. Those around him moved away from him through fear. He left, sold a load of oats and other grain, and his purse was filled with money. Exceeding elated, he returned to the tavern. At 3 o’clock in the afternoon, one tiny cloud passed over the heavens. It thundered once, the lightning struck once, and the-cloudlet disappeared. A half an hour la’er the fire-engines wheeled through the streets and everybody cried out.- “ The great farm-house in P----is all on fire.”
A messenger came breathless into the tavern and told our peasant that his house had been struck by the big lightning and was on fire.
“ Go, fool, what nonsense! I have four big lightning rods on it; go, or big lightning will strike you.”
Just as he raised his hand, a second, and immediately a third messenger came in and cried out: “Come, come nothing can be saved! all is in flames.”
Now indeed he was convinced. He took his hat and left for the farm. As he ascended the hill, in view of his farm, he himself saw the reality. His whole farm was on fire: barns, granaries, house, everything.
God took every grain without paying one penny.
All was burned; even the horses, cows and hogs lay around dead; his gold and silver was molten, and dug out of the ashes in lumps, and even his full purse was lost, for in throwing off his coat a thief got hold of it. Thus was blasphemy punished on the spot.	P.
—Even if a boy is always whistling “ I want to be an angel,” it is just as well to keep the preserved pears on the top of the pantry.	'
500
THE NOTRE DAME' SCHOLASTIC.
Lying.
Of all the abominable habits in this world, and they are many, that of lying is the most abominable. The degradation which this despicable habit brings upon man is something simply indescribable. He who is addicted to this vice cannot trust himself, for having lied he is constantly in dread lest his actions should betray him, by proving the contrary of what he has asserted. Nor can he be trusted by his fellowmen; for since they know him to be a liar they never bestow upon him, nor does he ever merit, their confidence. They are aware of his having lied on former occasions, and now though he may be telling them the truth they cannot, without having some doubt as to the veracity of what he is saying, believe him. There are persons who to save themselves from punishment, no matter how slight that punishment may be, or how trivial may have been the fault which they may have committed, instead of standing forth and making a bold and manly declaration of the truth of what they have done, and receive the punishment which they have so justly merited, will resort to that vile and cowardly habit of lying. The liar may succeed by his vile habit in diverting suspicion from him for the time being, but in nine cases out of ten he is caught in the act. What then must be his mortification, what his shame, on seeing himself exposed! How humiliated he must feel to think that after having, perhaps, been obliged to tell ten lies in support of one, he has at last been detected and is now branded as a liar!
We should avoid the companionship of a liar with as much horror as we would that of a thief or a murderer. You may think that such an assertion is extravagant, but I can show you quite conclusively that a liar is all that I have said him to be.
He is a thief, inasmuch as he can rob us of that which we prize above all—our character. How many innocent, unsuspecting persons have had their good name more or less injured by the detractions of the liar! How many suicides have been caused by his base calumnies and misrepresentations! One instance of a suicide caused by the liar will suffice. In one of our Western towns there was a man who had established himself in business and was doing well. He was distinguished for his integrity, manliness and uprightness of character. For a long time all went well; but by and by, owing to the lying disposition of a certain individual, false reports as to the character of the man were freely circulated. These reports, on account of the supposed integrity of the one circulating them, made rapid headway. Those who formerly stood by him as friends now began to desert him one by one. He, as a natural consequence, became disheartened and dejected, and seeing his business prospects destroyed, and his character ruined, resolved to put an end to his existence, which he did by suiciding. Other examples of the same nature could be adduced; but I deem it unnecessary to bring forward any more examples as proofs of what I have asserted—that a liar is both a thief and a murderer.
Thus far we have viewed the liar only in his relation with his fellowman; let us now see how he stands in his relation to God. God is essentially a lover of truth, since He is Truth itself, and must therefore of necessity be diametrically opposed to the contrary—untruth. Let us examine one or two passages of Holy Scripture in order that we may better understand the hatred which Almighty God bears towards this vice. In the Book of Wisdom we read:
“The mouth that belieth, killeth the soul,” and in the Apocalypse: “All liars shall have their portion in the pool burning with fire and brimstone.” How hateful then must lying be in the sight of God, since He is compelled to condemn it in such fearful terms ? Now I do not mean to say that every lie is mortal, and will consequently merit this general condemnation. No; far from it. For instance, in jesting we often say things which are untrue, but they are not mortal sins, since in jesting we do not mean to injure anyone; still even those should be avoided, for since it is known that people who began by stealing a pin became great thieves, so also he who begins lying in jest may also be led to lie in serious matters.
Lies are mortal sins only when told to oppose' the great truths of religion; to praise vice or to condemn virtue; to protect or forward wickedness; to injure our fellowman in anything of consequence; when we know that they shall be a cause for scandal to others; when having made a promise in matters of consequence we fail to keep it; and when otherwise venial they are confirmed by oath. In all such cases they are mortal sins, and consequently merit the punishment due them.
Such is the manner in which this contemptible habit is viewed by both God and man. You can never become distinguished members of society unless you are firm lovers of truth. Let you, then, who have contracted this habit of lying resolve to part with it forever; for if you do not, rest assured that you can never attain to that success for which you are striving. Follow the noble example set by him who is called “ Pater Patrice,”—the immortal George Washington,—who having cut down his father’s cherry tree and being asked if he had done it did not try to throw the blame on some one else, but said “ I did it, father.” So you also when questioned concerning any fault which you may have committed, be men, and fearlessly tell the truth. And no matter what position you may occupy in society,
“ Or whate’er may betide,
Keep truth your companion, And honor your guide.”
Leaving Home.
- “ Stay, stay at home, my heart, and rest, Home-keeping hearts are happiest; For those that wander they know not where Are full of trouble and full of care,—
To stay at home is best.”
Who has not felt his heart shrink within him when for the first time he was about to leave his father’s roof and the friends endeared to him by so many associations, so many acts of kindness—when he is to leave a father’s guidance and protection, to go forth and act without an adviser, and to rely upon his own unaided judgment! 0 how" cold and desolate the world then appears! When the time . of departure comes, the heart seems to overflow with emotion. It causes a painful struggle to say the final “ Goodbye ! ” and it is often in silence that we receive the adieus ~ of father and mother, sisters and brothers.
Having thus gone forth into the wide world, and felt the want of a father’s care and a mother’s love, then will it be that the scenes passed through in youth will return freshly to mind; kind acts and words given and received will make the heart pulse with fervid emotion, and the remembrance of every unkind word, or look, or thought will give a double pain.
After the battle of Gettysburg a large number of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	501
■wounded were sent to Philadelphia; the citizens of the “ City of Brotherly Love ” did all they could to cheer and comfort the poor fellows, many of whom were from the far distant West, others whose homes were beyond the sea. The dying soldiers’ conversations were generally of their old homes, of their brothers and sisters, and their dear father and mother whom they were never to see again. Others, too weak to converse, lay on their couch of death to dream of home and those dear ones whom they would never again behold in this world. As I before remarked, everything possible was done to cheer and comfort them. Among other means of entertaining them and diverting their minds from gloomy thoughts, vocal and instrumental music were introduced into the different wards. One day Kprima donna who was then singing at the Arch Street Theatre visited the hospital. Sitting down to a piano, she played and sang “ Do they think of me at home ? ” Before she had half finished the piece of music she was approached by a physician and requested to stop. On looking about to see the cause of her interruption she beheld the soldiers in tears. It is said that soldiers heroically undergo the most excruciating torture with scarcely a murmur, for a soldier thinks it an act of cowardice to cry or moan; therefore the suffering that wrings one or the other from his brave bosom must be fearful indeed; yet, at the sound of these words “ Do they think of me at home ? ” the noble veterans were moved to tears.	x
Again, I remember reading of the departure of the Newport Kentucky Volunteers. These brave men were about to risk their lives for their country’s cause; they were departing from those who were as dear to them as life, and were leaving their friends and firesides without the certainty of ever returning to them. It was one of those sorrowful scenes that were so common during the late civil war. Many of these brave men, remarked a reporter, bade adieu to their nearest and dearest friends without the least noticeable emotion until the band struck up the air “ My Old Kentucky home, good night ”; then, he continues, there was not to be seen a dry eye amongst that vast throng.
Ah yes, it is hard to part from parents and friends and home, and we who are not compelled to leave them should be grateful to a kind Providence who gave us a home in a land of plenty, and kind parents to care for us and to attend to our many wants. We should not wait for the bitter hours of separation to learn to appreciate these blessings of a beneficent Providence, but should now honor, love and pray for those dear parents, and not only in childhood and youth, but also and more particularly in our riper years; for as we advance in wisdom and knowledge we should increase in piety and filial devotedness. Thus we read of our Saviour, the pattern of all virtue, that He was obedient to His holy Mother and His foster-father St. Joseph not only until His twelfth year, but until His thirtieth year, for after His finding in the Temple we read that “He went down to Nazareth and was subject to them,” as if to convince us that obedience to parents is our great and continual duty, and one that is extremely pleasing to God, as is shown by the promise made to those who honor their parents: “Honor thy father and thy mother, that thou mayest be long-lived upon the land which the Lord thy God will give thee.” (Exodus, xx, 12.)
A Junior.
—Impatience dries the blood sooner than age or sorrow.
—Chapin.
Anecdotes of Pope Pins IX.
[From “ Life of Pins IX ’’ by Rev. Bernard O’Reilly, D. D.] But few anecdotes have reached us about his doings in South America. Two noteworthy incidents will suffice, however, to show in what direction ran the current of that unselfish existence. In one of the wild valleys between the interlocking spurs of the Andes he stumbled on a hovel, in which a poor man lay at the point of death, with his wife and children weeping, hopeless and helpless, around him. It was an Indian family. They had received neither instruction nor baptism; had never been under priestly care, and knew the Christian religion only by the traditions of their parents and the godless lives of the Spanish mountaineers and traders. The comely features of the young priest, who all of a sudden appeared at the death-bed, lighted up as they were by unearthly charity, seemed to the dying man and his family an angelic apparition. The words and acts of the stranger proved to be those of an angel. He spoke of heaven, and of Him who died on the cross to open its gates to all men, with such inspired eloquence and in the near presence of death that the poor sufferer believed and was baptized. He was doing, like the first apostles, Christ’s work among the heathen, and Christ was with him giving efficacy to his every word.
When the regenerated soul had taken its flight, Mastai opened the wallet containing his wardrobe, took out his best linen, clothed the catechumen in it, and thus laid him to his rest, with Christ’s Cross above his grave on the hillside. Then he instructed and baptized the widow and her orphans, shared with them his little money and clothing, and went on his way seeking other stray sheep of his Master’s fold.
As in Imola, so in Rome, Pius would go into the streets simply dressed and with few or no attendants, seeking the most neglected portions of the city for his walks and visits, and wishing to see with his own eyes where light and air were most needed, or souls were most in want of spiritual aid. The Ghetto, the Jews’ quarter, had been the scene of many a charitable excursion in his younger days; he knew of its squalor and many pitiful discomforts, and was planning a change. One day a wretched old creature stopped him to lay before him his sore distress. Perhaps he was one of the many who yearly spend their little all in making a pilgrimage to Palestine, and after pouring out their tears, their prayers, their longings on the ruins of their once glorious Temple, find their way back to die among their kind in some Christian land, where they experience but little of Christian charity.
The Pope paused to listen to the story of his poor petitioner, and placed a large alms in his hand, with .loving words of comfort that were ever ready. Thereupon an attendant reminded His Holiness that the recipient, of his kindness was a Jew. “What does that matter!” was the quick reproof; “itis a man.” The act and the words were not forgotten. They kindled hope and love in every house and every heart of the Ghetto. It was only a beginnig, however. Ere a new year dawned that down-trodden race received from their sovereign and father splendid proofs- of a liberality and kindness which should suffice to immortalize a prince even in the absence of political genius and transcendent success.
—Passion is the drunkenness of the mind.—South.
502	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—The Geographical Magazine for March handsomely acknowledges that its former severe judgment of Mr. Stanley’s conduct towards the natives was unjustifiable.
—As the Chinese have no alphabet, the telegraph has proven worthless; but the telephone has been adopted by the authorities, and 500 miles have been spoken over readily.
—The common honey-bee, when imported to Australia, continues its accustomed habits of industry for a year or two, accumulating honey and maintaining order in the hive, after which it ceases to lay by stores of food, and becomes utterly barren.
—Among odd places for birds’ nests, it is noted in Forest and Stream that a pair of robins built their domicile on the ground at the base of an apple tree, between two swelling roots. The tree stood on a steep incline, and the nest was on the lower side of the stem.
—The collection of Indian relics formed by George Catlin, the famous historian of Indian life, is to pass into the possession of the Smithsonian Institution. It embraces, besides implements, weapons, and curiosities, 300 portraits in oil, and 200 paintings illustrating the different phases of Indian life.
—A Roman coin of bronze, of the size of about a half dollar, has been found in the environs of Zyfflich, Rhenish Prussia. Judging from its inscriptions and images, it must be a medal struck in memory of the triumph of Germanicus in May, A. D. 17, when that General returned from his campaign in Germany.
—An invention providing the motive-power of a sewingmachine in a coil of strong springs has been perfected in Vienna. The speed of running the machine can be regulated with ease by the operator, and the motion continued for hours,—thus doing away with the wearying exertion imposed by impelling it with the feet.
—Remains of the village of Eidun, which was submerged in 1436, in the German Sea, were excavated last fall. Stone foundations of dwellings, garden walls, and remnants of wood work for fences and beams, and especially many old pits made of turf sods, have been brought to light. Besides this, old coin and tools, and a well preserved metal bracelet of exquisite workmanship, have been found.
—An application of electricity to prevent railway-collisions is being tried at the station at Marseilles. It consists of an electric mirror, in which all the movements on a line 100 kilometres in length are brought vividly before the eye, enabling the station-masters to follow exactly the progress of every train. It is hoped that by this means accidents resulting from delays or too rapid runs may be avoided.
—The British bark D. M’B. Park, which arrived at West Cowes, March 30, from Batavia, reports the occurrence of several submarine volcanoes in the equatorial region, in the month of January. The report runs: “ January 29, at 7 a. m., in lat. 4.20 N., long. 21.45 W., saw several submarine volcanoes throwing large columns of water about 100 feet in the air, while the sea was in great commotion, as it is when there is a very strong under-current, the weather at the time being very cloudy, with rain, and nearly calm. The sound was like distant thunder.”
—M. de Quatrefages noticed, a few months ago, that a six-toed cock had so universally transmitted to his descendants the peculiarity that marked him, and it has spread so widely that the ordinary five-toed variety had disappeared in the district. M. Lengien, a physician of Arras, has lately described a remarkable perpetuation of a peculiar formation in the human species. A man named M. Gameion, in the last century, had two thumbs on each hand and two great-toes on each foot. The peculiarity was not transmitted to his own offspring, but appeared in each of the three subsequent generations,—some of the children at present showing it in a clearly marked manner.
—The attention of the London Linnaean Society was lately called to the valuable qualities of the Mahwa tree {Bassia latifolia), which grows in abundance in India.
The flowers, of which a single tree will bear several hundred pounds, resemble iu taste the dried seedless grapes called Corinths, and are eagerly devoured by wild animals of all kinds. They are nutritious to man, and form an excellent food for fattening cattle. A strong-smelling spirit, a kind of arrack, is obtained by distillation of the corolla; an essential oil is yielded by the fruit; and, as an agent in soap making, the tree is invaluable. The Bassias belongs to the natural order Sapotaceae, and one.of the species is the Butter tree of Mungo Park.
—The antiquities found in the environs of Lake Wan, Armenia, and afterwards purchased by British ambassador Layard in Constantinople, have now been placed in the British Museum. They represent a valuable collection and are of so much the more importance at the present time as no similar objects from that country and dating from that period are extant. The city of Wan is vener-ablein its age, since it is certain that it existed in the 10th century before Christ. These Armenian objects greatly resemble the Assyrian antiquities, with this difference, that the artists of the old Minnaeans, then living in the country of Wan, have reproduced from nature more true and exact than was done by the Assyrian painters and sculptors. The inscriptions could give much interesting knowledge if savants could be found to decipher them. In the main, the collection consists of the bronze ornaments of a palace.
—Arrangements are making for a very complete exposition of the progress of Science, at the forthcoming World’s Fair. An enormous building in the Trocadero Park will be devoted to the “ scientific display.” In this an audienceroom is to be constructed seating above 4,000 people, and to be used expressly for lectures. Each Government department will show the way its scientific work is done, and there will be a collection illustrating the scientific enterprises France has accomplished during the present century. Every facility will be afforded for the conventions of scientific societies; lecture-rooms will be provided gratis; advertising will be conducted on an extensive scale; and Government apparatus will be at the disposal of lecturers for the performance of experiments. In view of these generous provisions on the part of France for the exposition of Science, and of the neglect of England to contribute anything to the display, Nature exclaims in despair, “ We surely must, after all, be merely a nation of shopkeepers, seeing that our Royal Commissioners have doubted our capabilities in any other direction!”
—Shortly before the close of 1877, the chemists Cailletet and Raoul Pictet of Paris, both working separately at their experiments, have succeeded in producing oxygen gas in a liquid form. On the 31st of December Cailletet informed the Academy of Science in Paris that he had succeeded in a similar operation with nitrogen, and even with hydrogen, although for the latter a failure was at first expected. The experiment was tried in the laboratory of the Ecble Normale, in presence of distinguished chemists and professors of natural philosophy. Nitrogen has been observed in the shape of little drops, and hydrogen in the shape of a fog. Thus it is proved that all gases are subject to the rule which states the possibility of their liquefaction. This is done with nitrogen under pressure of 200 atmospheres, or about 3000 deg., and with hydrogen under a pressure of 280 atmospheres, or 4200 deg. per square inch, and -is' brought about by a lowering of temperature which at the moment of the operation is 300 deg. below zero (Celsius). The cold and the heavy pressure of air jointly move the molecules of gas to such a density that they are transformed into a liquid shape, since our common air is composed af oxygen and nitrogen, and each one of these gases is subject to liquefaction, it is evident that air itself can be successfully operated upon in this manner. Cailletet has proved this by taking a quantity of air entirely free from moisture and carbonic acid, which he liquefied in his apparatus. When he cfpened the faucet, the liquid air dropped out like a perfumed liquor out of a still. Following up this experiment, liquid air could be rendered solid so as to appear iu solid lumps. This solid air is certainly one of the greatest achievements of modern chemistry, and the 31st of December, 1877, will always be a remarkable date in the history of science. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
503
Art, Music and Literature.
s*'
—Father Secchi’s work on the “ Sun,” translated by Prof. Proctor, is announced by the Longmans.
—An International Exhibition is to be held at Milan in 1879, under the auspices of King Humbert.
—A statue of Marcus Aurelius, in wonderfully-beautiful armor adorned with reliefs, has been found at Olympia.
—The second volume of the new edition of Green’s “ History of the English People ” will be issued this month.
—The Dutch Government has ordered the erection of statues representing the different attires worn by the peasants of the country.
—The German pictures to be sent to the Paris Exhibition will number about 200 and will include some from the Emperor’s collections.
—The facade of the Cathedral of St. Mark’s at Venice has been set up in miniature to adorn the Italian department in the Paris Exhibition.	,
—A German art-critic of high authority has pronounced against the genuineness of the “ Cupid” at the South Kensington Museum, which has been regarded as the work of Michael Angelo.	‘
■ —A copy of the “Book of the Dead,” which bears the name of a princess named Nedjem, mother of Herhor the high priest of Ammon, has been added to the Egyptian museum of the Louvre.
—Russia and Siberia furnish the scenes of the new volume of Mr. Longfellow’s “Poems of Places,” which will be continued to cover Syria, Persia, (and other parts of Asia), Africa, and lastly America.	,
—“The Speaking Telephone and Other Electrical Novelties ” is the title of a new work by George B. Prescott, author of “Electricity and the Electric Telegraph,” which will shortly be issued in one volume.
—P. J. Kennedy, who has recently purchased the stereotype plates of the old house of Dunigan & Bro., is preparing new editions of most of the books, many of which have been out of the market for a long while.
—Switzerland has fifty Catholic journals, Austro-Hungary has ninety, Belgium one hundred and seventeen, which is more than any other country. In Italy, France, and Spain the Catholic periodicals are sadly in need of funds.
—The Louvre has been enriched by casts of all the principal sculptures obtained at Olympia. By their help the remains discovered by the Morea scientific expedition in 1829, already in the Louvre, receive valuable aid toward reconstruction.
—J. A. McGee has issued in book form the “ Zozimus Papers, a Series of Comic and Sentimental Stories and Legends as told by Michael Moran, the Blind Story-teller of Dublin.” These papers formerly appeared in NcGee's Illustrated Weekly.
—Mrs. Muloch Crarik has written and edited, for early publication, a book which describes, it is said, the incidents of a very touching and interesting life. “A Legacy; Being the Life and Remains of John Martin, Schoolmaster and Poet,” is the title of the book.
—Of late years quite a passion has grown up in Paris ' for handsome books. Aucienl and rare works are sold for fabulous prices, and it is not unusual for a volume to fetch 1,000 or 2,000 francs. Publishers find a better sale for handsome editions than for others.
—There is talk of holding a literary congress in Paris during the forthcoming exhibition. The proposition has already been discussed by the Societe des Gens de Lettres, and a resolution passed to offer the presidency of the embryo association to Victor Hugo.
—The Boston Transcript says: “The editor of The Nineteenth Century must have had a hard struggle with himself before deciding to accept Tennyson’s last poem, and many admirers of the poet-laureate will regret that the demon of the waste-basket did not win a victory.”
—The French art-critic of the Athenaum suggests that the woolen veil known to have hung in the Temple of Olympia was the veil of the Temple of Jerusalem, which
was carried off by Antiochus IV with other spoils of the Holy City, and presented to the Olympian sanctuary.
—Mr. Tennyson is said to be engaged upon a new historical drama, which will complete the trilogy of dramas upon great characters and events in English history which the poet laureate originally contempleted, and of which two, “ Queen Mary” and “ Harold,” have already appeared.
—A new tenor, named Sellier, whom M. Edmond About discovered by accident employed in a cafe, has just made his debut in “ William Tell,” at the Paris Grand opera, after two years’ study at the Conservatoire. The beauty of his voice is said to be extraordinary, but he has still a great deal to learn.
—Although the low admissions to the Paris theatres necessitate their being subsidized by the State, their gross income is subject to the levy of a fixed percentage for the poor, and manager after manager fails. A bill has been brought into the Chamber to transfer this levy from the receipts to the net profits.
—There is shortly to appear in London a work on the armies of the powers of Europe, giving particulars of their strength and organization, and many interesting details regarding famous regiments in the different services, their constitution, etc. The book will also include an account of the navies of the several powers.
—In the “Rathaus” (city-hall) of Osnabruck in Germany, an old book has been discovered, with the images of the ancient Bishops of that city, from the year 722 till 1607. These images were made with a common goosequill pen, and are ascribed to the court artist in office at the last named time (1607). To each drawing is added some remarkable scene from the life of the Bishop represented, which is explained at the foot of the page. The book is said to be of little artistic value, but its historical importance cannot be denied.
—The exhibition of Mr. Ruskin’s Turner drawings at the Fine-Art Society,'■London, is one of great importance. The Academy says that notwithstanding the rare generosity with which Mr. Ruskin has given to Oxford and Cambridge possessions that must have been an immense delight to him, he is the owner of a collection of Turners which, as a whole, is not to be surpassed in England, save by the monumental assemblage of the National Gallery. The series of works on exhibition are so arranged as to elucidate the progress of Turner in his art, through the different stages that mark its course.
—There were in the West, from the most ancient Christian times, a great number of various Latin translations of the Bible. Among these the so-called “ Itala ” was the most generally received version, which in its time enjoyed the same sanction of the Church that was afterwards accorded to the official Vulgate edition. The multiplication of its text by careless, or incompetent, or malicious scribes led, however, to many arbitrary and incorrect changes, which induced Pope Damasus, about the year 382, to have it carefully revised by St. Jerome, the most learned Doctor and the most classical scholar of his age. The result of his labors was the so-called “ Vulgata,” which, though not unfrequently impaired by copyists accustomed to the Itala, came down, however, substantially the same to the time of Clement VIII, who had it revised and republished at Rome in 1592. This edition is the officially recognized edition of the Bible.
—The little daughter of a leading physician in a certain country town presented the following as her first school essay: “There was a little girl, and she was very sick. They sent for my papa, and she died very quick.”
—“ It was simply an informal affair,” wrote the editor of a little strawberry party at a neighbor’s house. “ It was simply an infernal affair,” read the compositor, and that editor will never get any more invitations from that quarter.
—Professor Dana, one of the foremost of living geologists, packs a whole volume of argument into two sentences, in holding that if the first chapter of Genesis is proved to be the right natural account of creation, then it must have been written by inspiration. “Examining it as a geol- r ogist,” adds Professor Dana, “I find it to be in perfect accord with known science, therefore as a Christian I assert that the Bible narrative must be inspired.”
■	- s
504	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
jjitnu
Notre Dame, .A/pril 6, 1S7S.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.	•
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,	'
Old Students should take it.
Terms. §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Pope Leo XIII and the “Ave Maria.”
On the 1st of May, 1865, the publication of the Ave Maria was commenced by Very Rev. Father Sorin, with the approval and encouragement of a few friends, prominent among whom were the late Right Rev. Bishop Luers of Fort Wayne, Bishop Young of Erie, and Bishop Timon of Buffalo. These saintly men were, warm in their approval of the enterprise, but business men and Catholics generally were not at all sanguine of its success. Many decidedly well-edited publications, both weekly and monthly, had been started from time to time, under favorable auspices, but failed for want of support; and some who had been consulted by Father Sorin in regard to his undertaking augured for it a like fate. Some even said that its very title of “Ave Maria” would insure its failure; devotion to the Blessed Virgin was not nearly so well understood as it should be even by Catholics, and among non-Catholics the prejudice against it was so great that Catholics would be deterred from patronizing the proposed publication. Very Rev. Father Sorin was told that he would get no more than a few subscribers for it, and these out of pergonal consideration to himself. Nevertheless, in his ardent devotion to the Holy Mother of God, and the desire to see her better known and honored, he resolved upon the venture, cost what it might, for he had placed all his undertakings hitherto under the patronage of the Blessed Virgin and had never cause to regret doing so. Therefore a motive of gratitude supervened, in addition to his filial devotion, to decide him in the present case.
We have seen the result. The Ave Maria has been productive of a measure of good in the special field marked out for it We know not how long it may please God to prolong its mission, but in any case we believe Very Rev. Father Sorin has had cause to rejoice in the prosecution of his enterprise. It has succeeded, if not so well as might be expected considering the number of our Catholic
population, at least as well as the majority of our Catholic periodicals. Within a few months it had received, together with the encouragement of Rt. Rev. Bishops Timon, Young and Luers, the approbation of several other members of j the Hierarchy, many of whom, as they stated, had pur; posely kept aloof until proof had been given that it was worthy of its mission. In September of the year following, the Holy Father, Pope Pius IX, himself deigned a Latin ■ letter of approbation and encouragement, written with his own hand, a fac-simile of which we see in the Ave Maria from time to time. It reads as follows:
•	Die 10. Septembris, 1866.
Rebus hisce stantibus, et dummodo ad majorem Dei gloriam, et B. M. Virginis omnia sint directa, Benedicimus opus inccep-tum et omnes cooperatores, et Dominus N. J. C. opus perficiat solidetque.	Pius PP. IX.
. [Translation.]
“ These things being so, and provided that all be directed to the honor and glory of God and of the Blessed Virgin Mary, we bless the undertaking and all the co-operators thereunto, and may our Lord Jesus Christ perfect and strengthen the work.”
Such was the blessing of Pius the Ninth.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, now Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, writing from Rome, says that on the 6th of March he was admitted at the Vatican to a private audience with the Holy Father, Pope Leo XIII. He had with him a copy of the Ave Maria in which was published the approbation or rather the special blessing of the saintly Pio Nono. Towards the end of the audience, Father Sorin said: “ Most Holy Father, one more blessing I desire: for this Journal, devoted to the Mother of God, which I began in the New World thirteen years ago; and which, with the blessing of your saintly predecessor, has prospered greatly, counting as it does 10,000 subscribers.” The Holy Father took it very kindly from his hands, and fixing his eyes attentively upon the autograph, he read aloud the six lines	:
so familiar wherever the Ave Maria is known. “Ah!” said the Holy Father, “this is precious, and deserving attention. It delights me to know of such a Journal of our	.
Blessed Mother in your great and beautiful America. Now	‘
listen well to what I have to say: you will write immedi-	:
ately, on my part, to the editor of your Ave Maria, direct-	t
ing him to place your communication at the beginning of	;
the first page in the next number, and say to him that I bless him with an especial blessing, and all the contributors and other persons engaged in its publication and propagation. I renew every word of this exceptional blessing. Indeed, I wish	“
with all my heart to see the Ave Maria more than ever # prosperous and extending its usefulness over the country. . Now that every land is deluged with wicked papers, can	M
we ever sufficiently encourage the religious and sound	I
press? Certainly, the Ave Maria deserves encouragement;
May GodUess it!"
While speaking, His Holiness looked at Father Sorin with great benevolence, and he and his companions retired from . the Pope’s apartments perfectly delighted. The Pope receives all his visitors standing with them; and he loves America as much as did his saintly predecessor. Father Sorin begged a particular blessing for our good Bishop of Fort Wayne and another for our venerable Archbishop. “ Ah! ’’ said His Holiness, “you mean Archbishop Purcell; I know him. I now charge you,” he added, “ to write to both, and say to them that I send them with joy the Apostolic Blessing—to them and to their Dioceses. Indeed,” added His Holiness, “I bless from my heart all the Bishops of the New World; and when you return, give yourself that blessing to your community and friends.”
I	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	505
A Letter from. St. Joseph’s College, Memramcook, N. B.
Dear Scholastic:—Five years ago you and I celebrated Erin’s Festival together here in Memramcook. Do ■ you remember the day and its associations? At that time you and I, each in our own sphere, did what we could to honor Erin and her Apostle, and (so people told us, didn’t they?) succeeded. Time has wrought many changes here since then, old friend: others have filled the places by us left vacant, and they, in their turn, true to the old traditions, do their utmost to make St. Patrick’s Day the day at St. Joseph’s College. And like us, dear Scholastic, they . succeed—succeed better than we did. (“ Honor to whom honor is due,’’ you know.) Not that they are smarter than we were (of course not); but they have more of the elements of success at their disposal, and, as a consequence, they have not to cope with the difficulties which we had to encounter. What with a grand exhibition-hall, a spacious stage, fine scenery, lots of talent, and a genuine leader (your friend, Rev. R. L. Walsh) at their head, the present Irish students of St. Joseph’s possess every facility for celebrating St. Patrick’s Day with a heartiness and an edat worthy of the blood which runs in their veins.
As you know, the 17th of March fell on the 20th this year (little Jimmy Tucker believes so at any rate); and it was on the 20th that Mother Erin awakened her children here from their slumbers, and bade them be up and doing for it was “Patrick’s Day”—her own fete-day, the only *	one she enjoys during the- long,- long year. Poor Erin 1
mother of my heart, how eagerly did we obey the summons when we heard your “Rise, acuslda,” and how joyfully did we hasten to comfort your old heart by honoring '	your Regenerator and contributing to the praise-offering
’	which your children, the world over, yearly pour into your
lap as their annual tribute to St. Patrick. We knew that by doing so we would make, you glad; for, Erin, be our 1	faults what they may, you will be always proud of us as
•	long as we continue to honor your sainted Patron.
j	Like true Irishmen, our first act in the day’s celebration
i	was one of faith. We went to Mass, and in God’s temple we
I	offered in St. Patrick’s honor the Sacrifice of the Religion
he preached to us. And there was there one of Ireland’s truest sons to preach the panegyric of the great Saint. Rev. W. J. Foley, a gifted preacher, told us the tale of St. Pat-•	rick’s life, of his labors for Ireland, of his zeal for the salva-
tion of souls, and of the heroic sacrifices he made that the 1	object of his mission might be accomplished.
3	As we listened to the eloquent priest, we were more
.	than ever convinced of the greatness of St. Patrick’s merit
tgc to be honored by Ireland, and of his right to the gratitude ?	~ of every son of the isle he converted. At the conclusion of
the Mass which, en passant, was celebrated by Rev Father McGill, C. S. C., with Rev. Father Roy, C. S. C., and Rev. R.
. L. Walsh, C. S. 0., as deacon and subdeacon respectively, we retired from the church and spent the afternoon in the enjoyment of our holiday and in expectation of the musical and dramatic entertainment to be given in the evening by the gentlemen of St. Patrick’s Academy, kindly assisted by the members of the Academie St. Jean Baptiste.
The evening came and with it the promised Seance. Quite a large audience assembled in the exhibition hall of the college to enjoy the treat prepared for them by the acad'	emicians. At 7^ o’clock the Very Rev. Superior, Father
Lefebvre, C. S. C., accompanied by the members of the
Faculty and invited guests, entered the halt As the curtain rose the College Band played the “ Marianim Quickstep,” after which Mr. Frank Bradley stepped forward and pronounced the “ Opening Address,” in which he announced the programme of the evening’s entertainment and solicited the indulgence of the audience in favor of those of his companions who might, during the evening, appear before them, whether in song, discourse, declamation or drama.
I enclose you, dear Scholastic, a copy of the programme, which, however, I do not ask you to publish lest my letter would occupy too much space; but you may read it over in private yourself and judge of its merits. Of course it would have been better had I managed to make my letter shorter and thus enable you to insert the programme (the boys, you know, like to see their names in print); but really it is so long since I’ve had a chat with you and it may be so long before I’ll have another that I cannot help monopolizing.
However, I cannot refrain from putting in a good word (edgewise) in praise of Messrs. Owens, Bartley, Bradley and Brawley (I hope the others won’t be jealous) for their rendition of the various characters they assumed in the drama —“Look before you leap,” and in the farce, “Cherry Bounce.” By doing so, I give pleasure to myself and a merited distinction to them, and thus “kill two shtones wid the one bird,” as “ Teddy McGoogins” did in “Cherry Bounce.”
And now, dear Scholastic, before concluding, a word or two. What a pity it is that St. Patrick’s Day is so much like Christmas in its coming “ but once a year ”! How sad that Ireland has but one day in which she can, with all the grace of Atlantic’s fairest daughter, array herself in her festive robes and publicly receive the homage of a world of hearts! Do you not regret that we cannot more frequently see our own Erin in her gala dress of shamrocks with her emeralds flashing in her hair and on her bosom ? —a queen as regal as ever queen that wielded sceptre and wore a crown. Aye, and more so too! and, though her shamrock-robe is faded now and the emerald’s lustre dimmed, her throne o’erturned and her sceptre gone, she is still our queen and rules our hearts, rules them with a sway great as the power which has tried to crush her. It could not be otherwise; for we have to compensate our Mother Erin with a load of love and loyalty for the infidelity of her faithless son, Dermott—our traitor brother—from whose crime she is still suffering, and whose memory she curses not, though she cannot bless.
With this reflection, dear Scholastic, I will say goodbye. I have told you all I had to tell. If I have kept you too long, pardon me. Believe me, etc.,
Patrick Shamrock.
Personal.
—O. W. Lindberg, of’76, is doing well in Pointe Conpee, La.
—Mrs. Rhodius and Mrs. Hugg, of Indianapolis, Ind., were among the visitors at the beginning of the week.
—We were honored with a visit on the 2d by Rev. /Figi di ns Hennemann, O. S. B., and Mr. Krost, of Crown Point, Ind.
—Jacob F. Rehm (Commercial), of ’68, is with the firm of E. S. Dreyer & Co., real estate brokers, 98 Dearborn St., Chicago, Ill.
—C. W. Swenk (Commercial), of ’69, visited Notre
506
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Dame on the 1st of April. Mr. Swenk is at present connected with the Chicago Times.
—Mr. John Cooney, of Cleveland, Ohio, was one of our visitors last Wednesday. Mr. Cooney was here some twenty years ago, and now finds the place greatly changed.
—Rev. Thomas Vagnier, for the past seven months assisting Rev. D. J. Spillard at Austin, Texas, arrived at Notre Dame on the 1st. Father Vagnier intends remaining here.	.
—Charles W. Hodgson (Commercial), of ’72, is to be married on the 10th of this month to Miss Alice M. Whitfield. Mr. Hodgson lives at Clarksville, Tenn., and is doing well.
—We are sorry to announce that Rev. W. F. O’Mahony has been quite ill for the past few weeks. We are at the same time pleased to be able to say that he is now happily out of danger.
—S. E. Folan, who was connected with the College faculty here in 1874, is now we hear Secretary of the Legation at Alexandria, Egypt. He was for a time after leaving here acting in the same capacity at Constantinople.
—Prof. William Ivers will be a candidate for councilman from the Fourth ward. If both sides nominate men for the place having Mr. Ivers’ capability, and acquaintance with local affairs, whichever proves successful no discredit will be done to the cffice.—South Bend Tribune. .
—From a letter to Rev. Father Neyron we understand that Prof. James E. McIntire, who was connected with the College here in ’67, is now residing in Pennsylvania, on his farm. He is married and doing well, and promises to visit Notre Dame shortly. His post-office address is Box 661, Emmittsburg, Md.
—The Northwestern Chronicle, after quoting from the Catholic Columbian the item about Rev. L. Neyron published in last week’s Scholastic, says:—“We remember Father Neyron nearly thirty years ago making a long and tiresome journey to a stranger’s house in Kentucky, where some dozen doctors were quarrelling over a broken leg, one half saying it was broken, the other that it was out of joint, and while the quarrel went on they were pulling that leg every day—or in other words they were murdering the patient. They meant it all right, but they were mistaken. The moment Father Neyron saw and touched the limb he solved the trouble—the thigh socket bone was broken He relieved the suffering patient and went his way. The wife of the gentleman pressed upon him a sum of money, when he took his leave—but ecery cent of it was returned neat day. He would receive no remuneration whatever.”
Local Items.
—Holy Week will soon be here.
—The monthly Bulletins were made out last Wednesday.
—It seems to Turkey like the day after Thanksgiving.
—Every one should provide himself with a Holy Week book.
—There were quite a number of tricks played here on All-Fool’s day.
—Quite a number of students go fishing every week. Luck, only so-so.
—Classes go on with the usual regularity, and most of the students are doing good work.
—A new collection of books has been placed on the shelves of the Scholasticate library.
—Already the small boy has begun to count the days between this and Commencement-Day.
—In spite of the fine spring weather which as a rule is with us, we occasionally have a little snow-storm.
—Work on the imitation of the Grotto of Lourdes, just to the northwest of the new church, has commenced.
—On Wednesday last the Atlantics beat a nine picked from the Actives and Eclectics by a score of 14 to 10.
—We understand that the St. Cecilians will plant an evergreen tree over Rev. Father Patrick Dillon’s grave in a few weeks.
—The Dubuque Herald of the 25th contained a very complimentary notice of the Columbian celebration of St. Patricks’ Day at Notre Dame.
—Vespers to-morrow are from the Common of Confessors not Bishops, page 50 of the Vesperal. In the morning Missa Paivulorum will be sung.
—There is considerable work done by the members of the Drawing Class. We notice one pupil is at work on a portrait of Very Rev. President Corby.
—The 25th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on the 2d inst., when the reports of the various officers were handed in and accepted.
—The rain interfered with the game of baseball played by the Philosophers and the Mutuals on the 3d. At the end of the 5th inning the score stood 23 to 8 in favor of the Mutuals.
—The various religious societies are in a more flourishing condition than in any year since the founding of Notre Dame. This speaks volumes in praise of the students of this year.
—Quite a number of people at Notre Dame were surprised on All-Fools’ day to find tigers, lions, bears, buffaloes, wolves, and foxes (all stuffed of course) in their rooms in the morning.
—At the last meeting of the Columbian Club, the “ Light Brigade ” was given in concert by all the members. It was, being of a martial character, of the fortiter in re style of declamation.
—At the end of the 6th inning the score in the game of baseball between the Excelsior and the Enterprise clubs stood 16 to 8 in favor of the latter club. The rain prevented the nine innings.
—Why is it that when a match game is played there must always be some boys to lie around the outskirts of the grounds amusing themselves and annoying those witnessing the game by playing pitch and catch ?
—The regular meeting of the Sodality of the B. V. M. was held Wednesday evening last. Mr. Charles Brehmer read a “Life of St. Gregory the Great,” and Mr. Healey gave an “ Account of the Scapular.” Mr. R. Johnson was unprepared.
—We learn that a contract has been (or is intended to be) entered into by which a party binds himself to plant over five hundred forest trees about the walks on the Campus, along the avenue leading to the College, and other places.
—We have learned from Mr. J. M.,Veasev that the value of the museum purchased from him by Notre Dame, and described in a late issue of this paper, is §10,000. The Notre Dame Scholastic makes it §7,500, a very low estimate.—South Bend Tribune.
—The 26th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held March 31st. Essays were read by Messrs. G. Cochrane and G. Cassidy. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. R. P. Mayer, L. J. Baker, J. Perea, T. F. McGrath, T. Nelson, and F. Cavanaugh.
—The 25th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held March 30th. Essays were read by Messrs. S. Spalding and F. Luther. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. J. Fitzgerald, A. J. Hettinger, and P. J. Dougherty. A select reading was given by Mr. M. Bannon.
—On Thursday last a telephone was attached to the telegraph wires at Notre Dame connecting with South Bend. Conversation was freely carried on, and music played at Notre Dame was distinctly heard at South Bend. In the evening a concert was given in the telegraph-office and the music was listened to by a large audience of ladies and gentlemen.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin sent the Minims, from Rome, a picture of Pius IX, taken when dead and lying in state. It was “for the best Minim”; but as there are a number of good boys in the department it was decided to let them draw. Master A. Coghlin was the fortunate winner. He returns sincere thanks to Very Rev. Father General for his kind remembrance.
—At the meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	507
Virgin Mary, held last Sunday, Mr. Shugrue gave an account of “The Foundation of the Benedictine Order”; Mr. McConlogue explained and defended “The Catholic Doctrine of Purgatory,” and Mr. P. J. Hagan gave a “Sketch of the Lffe of St. John Nepomucene.” Tne ten-minutes’ instruction was given by Rev. T. E. Walsh.
—The 28th regular meeting of the Holy Guardian Angels was held Sunday, March 31st. A vote of thanks was given to Very Rev. Father Corby for his kindness in granting the Society a recreation day. Masters McDevitt and Coghlin were appointed Censors, and Master Rhodius Secretary. The President then explained why that Sunday was called Ltctare Sunday. Questions were given to Masters Rhodius, McDevitt and Coghlin.	•
—The singing in the various religious societies has done much towards adding to the interest of the meeting. The new departure in the way of having questions answered has also done a great deal in the way of making the meeting instructive and entertaining. We are sure that if pastors of churches were to attend a meeting of either of our Archconfraternities, they would form their young men’s societies after them.
—The Greeks organized a baseball club this session, and have put as strong a nine in the field as could be expected. They are confident of winning the championship. The following are the officers: Bro. Theodore, Director; Mr. N. Stoffel, Manager; H. Maguire, President; M. Regan, Secretary; L. Evers, Treasurer. The nine plays only on special occasions. The positions are as follows: Thucydides Evers, Catcher and Captain; Achilles Maguire, P.; Ulissus Ewing, S. S.; Aristides McHugh, 1st B.; Demosthenes Claggett, 2d B.; Xenophon Regan, 3d B.; Apo-lastos Cooney, L. F.; Agamemnon Hertzog, C. F.; Themistocles Kinney, R. F. latrotechnes O’Grady’was unanimously elected surgeon. At meetings or while playing a game the Greek language is used exclusively, so says Anoetos Anthesterion.
—Very Rev. Father General enclosed a photograph of Pope Leo XIII in his last letter from Rome, requesting that it be given to the best Junior. Br. Leander, not being prepared to decide who was the best, had the Juniors themselves decide it by voting for the one of their number they considered best. The prefects all seemed pleased with the result, and say they believe the boys voted conscientiously, G. Cassidy, of Equality, HL, received the higest number of votes and was awarded the prize. The following are the names of the other boys that received votes: W. J. McCarthy, of Boonville, Mo.; J. Matthews, of Kenosha, Wis.; K. L. Scanlan, of Chicago, Ill.; F. Cavanaugh, of Dubuque, Iowa; F. Bloom, of Vincennes, Ind.; G. Cocrane, of Chicago, Ill.; F. Pleins, of Dubuque, Iowa; G. Sugg, of Chicago, HL; R. Mayer, of Cleveland, Ohio; T. Nelson, of Chicago, Ill.; J. L. Healy, of Elgin, Ill.; J. G. Baker, of Fort Wayne, Ind.; W. Rietz, of Chicago, Ill.; A. J. Burger, of Reading, Pa.
—Considerable curiosity was excited last Tuesday by the trapsfer of museum specimens—ten wagon loads in all —from the Michigan Southern depot to Notre Dame University. The collection, as we have since learned, embraced the entire extensive museum of a former resident of this city, Mr. J. M. Veasey, who during his stay in Colorado spent several years in collecting minerals and animals peculiar to the southern Rocky Mountain range. The collection is especially rich in Colorado minerals, fossils, petrifactions, birds and mammals. Among the animals that attracted the most attention may be mentioned five buffaloes, from the young calf two days old, to the full-grown buffalo bull; three artistically mounted Rocky Mountain lions, one of which is unusually large; a group of grizzly bears, embracing a large she-bear with two cubs devouring a deer; several Rocky Mountain sheep, from the lamb to the largest sized buck; a number of deer, black-tailed and white-tailed, and fawns; three antelopes; a large Bengal tiger, a cinnamon bear; one of those very rare animals, the black-footed ferret; a very large life-like grey wolf. Besides the animals just mentioned there is a large number of foxes, wild-cats, beavers, coati, lynxes, porcupines, and all the smaller animals found in the Rocky Mountain section. Among the birds, of which
there are several hundred, and nearly all from Colorado, we noticed a very large pelican, the largest one we ever saw, pairs of pin-tailed and dusky grouse, sage hens, herons, eagles, etc., also curlews, wateroussls, and avocets; a very fine and rare glossy ibis; a beautiful lyre-bird, from Australia; an apteryx, a bird of the ostrich family, without tail or wings, from New Zealand, and several trios of ptarmigans, birds remarkable for having a pure white plumage in winter and a spotted, ash-colored plumage during the remainder of the year. Some of the fossils in the collection are remarkably large and well preserved. Our attention was called to a large baculite over two feet in length, several fine orthoceratites and trilobites, which show perfectly the form and structure of these singular animals of bygone ages. The collection of minerals is one of the richest and best selected ever brought from the West, and well illustrates the great mineral resources of Colorado. The gold and silver ores are rich and beautiful, while the lead, iron, copper and manganese ores are scarcely less attractive. The crystals of pellucid and smoky quartz, some of which are nearly a foot long and perfectly formed, amethyst, the different varieties of calcite, selenite, garnet, tourmaline, felspar, amazon stone, flourspar, etc., are remarkably beautiful and would compare favorably with those of any other collection in the country. The petrifactions from Bijou Basin and other localities are even more varied and attractive than any other part of the collection. The specimens of opalized, agatized and jasper wood are particularly pure and clear, while the specimens of petrified palm, cedar and other woods are so perfect as to exhibit distinctly the smallest cells and fibres. Among the petrifactions are specimens from small polished pieces a few inches square to a large stump upwards of three hundred pounds in weight. We noticed also a number of beautiful agates of various kinds, geodes, carnelians, dendrites, and a specimen of chalcedony in the form of a stalactite, which alone is valued at §100. The addition of this large collection of Mr. Veasey’s will make the already extensive museum of Notre Dame one of the largest and most interesting in the West. In securing this collection Notre Dame has shown her enterprise, as in other things, and her knowledge of the wants of the present generation —the facilities for acquiring a thorough scientific education. Very Rev. President Corby, the energetic President of the University, conscious of the demands of the age, has spared no pains nor expense to make the scientific department of Notre Dame equal to all the wants of her numerous students, and to this, as well as his great experience and success as an educator, do we attribute the large attendance—larger than for several years past—at the College this year. Seconded by Rev. J. A. Zahm, curator of the museum, who is an enthusiast in his work, and who for several years past has devoted all his energy to the development of his department, and Mr. A. Kirsch, assistant curator, also ardently devoted to the cause of science, we can, without being a prophet, foretell, that the scientific department of Notre Dame will at no distant future be recognized as one of the centres of science in our country.—South Bend Tribune.
—The following anecdote of Pius IX, although perfectly true, is not in general circulation. Shortly after his election to the Papacy, and when Antonelli held his first office under him, that of Finance Minister, the Romans, meeting their Pontiff in the street, complained to him of the tax on salt. The tax was a monopoly farmed by one of the speculators who thrived in earlier days. Pio Nono sent for the speculator. “ I suppose that salt tax is very valuable to you,” said he. The speculator trembled, fearing the price of the monopoly was about to be raised, protested that it was a dead loss. “ How much would compensate you for being relieved of your loss?” asked his Holiness. The salt-tax farmer named a ridiculously low sum. “Then,” said the Pope, “ you shall have the money ”; and, calling for Antonelli, ordered him to pay it. The rogue of a speculator refused; but on being informed by the Pope that he would publish the fact that he had offered him his own price for the monopoly, at last took the money, and went away a sadder, a wiser, and, prospectively, a more honest man. The day afterwards the salt-tax was abolished.
508
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, M. W. Bannon, T. Barrett, j. ECooney, J. J. Coleman, A. Congar, W. L. Dechant, E. C. Daven" port, E. Dempsey, F. J. Dougherty, A. Dorion, C. K. De Vries> J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. J. Evers, J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, E. Gramling, F. Hellman, J. J. Houck, J. 8. Hoffman, F. J-Hoffman, M. Hogan, A. J. Hertzog, A. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, F. Keller, J. Kelly, J. Kotz, F. Krost, P. W. Mattimore, W-Murphy, J. E. Montgomery, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, V. F. McKinnon, H. C. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, M. McCue, J. J. McEniry, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, F. McMullen, H. W-Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, R. Price, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J-Regan, E.W. Robinson, J. Rothert, J. Rice, J. Rabbitt, J. Rogers, A. K. Schmidt, T. S. Summers, S. T. Spalding, J. Smith, J. S. Sheridan, F. Williams, F. J. Walter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, J. B. Berteling, C. J. Brinkman. A. J. Bushey, G. H. Crawford, H. E. Canoll, T. F. Clarke, F. E. Carroll, C. E. Cavanagh, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. 8. Coddington, G. H. Donnelly, W. P. Doyle, R. French, J. A. Gibbons, H. A. Gramling, J. L. Healey, G. J. Ittenbach, P. P. Nelson, W. J. Jones, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, J. A. Lumley, J. R. Lawton, R. P. Mayer, J. T. Matthews, C. A. McKinnon, H. J. Newmark, L. H. Garceau, T. E. Nelson, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, 8. 8. Perley, E. J. Pennington, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. K. Schoby, G. E. Sugg, F. W. Singler, W. Stang, C. Van Mourick, W. A. Widdicombe, C. F. Walsh.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, G. Rhodius, J. A. Seeger, W. Coghlin, W. McDevitt, J. Boose, C. McGrath, J. Inderrieden, W. Coolbaugh, J. Courtney, Jos. Courtney, A. Hartrath, F. Gaffney, R. Costello, F. Berry, C. Garrick, E. Esmer, H. Snee, C. Herzog, S. Bushey, C. Bushey, Jos. Inderrieden, P. Fitzgerald, T. O'Neill, W. Rhein-hardt, T. Barrett, EL Kitz, J. Crowe.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL '	BRANCHES.
R. P. Mayer, F. Hoffman, A. Hettinger, A. J. Burger, H Newmark, C. Brinkman, J. B. Ittenbach, G. Ittenbach, J. Krost, L. Home, F. Singler, A. Rietz, A. Ginz, H. Gramling, F. Walter, W. Rietz, E. Gramling, L Chatterton, W. J. McCarthy, W. B. Walker, G. Crawford, W. Ohlman, J. Hafner, G. Walters, E. Dempsey, H. Murphy, M. Burns, T. Nelson, T. F. McGrath, J. Smith, S. Cassard, H. W. Nevans, F. Lang, S. Welty, J. D. McNellis, 0. McKinnon, J. Matthews, W. Stang, R. French, W. Doyle, W. D. Cannon, A. W. Johnson, A. Keenan, J. Le-marie, J. Shugrue, W. A. Widdicombe, R. Keenan, A. Bushey, R. Price, A. Dorion, W. Arnold, G. Sampson, J. G. Ewing, M. J. McCue, J. D. Coleman, J. D. Montgomery, T. Barrett, J. A. Burger, F. Cavanaugh, J. Scanlan, T. Fischel, F. Hellman, 0. 8. Mitchell, J. Garrett, J. Gibbons, A. Sievers, K. Scanlan, J. Rothert, J. P. McHugh, A K. Schmidt, E. McMahon, B. J. Claggett, O. Rettig, T. Barry, O. J. Hamilton, J. Fitzgerald, T. Hale, F. Ewing, C. Cavanagh, J. English, J. Arentz, J. Healy, A Hatt, V. McKinnon.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which arejheld monthly.—Director of Studies.]
German—L. Horne, G. Ittenbach, W. Rietz, H. Newmark, H. W. Nevans, I. Chatterton ; French—W. A. Widdicombe, J. L. Lemarie, A Keenan, A. Dorion; Law—J. J. Quinn, M. W. Bannon, W. J. Murphy, J. J. Shugrue, E. Arnold, 8. T. Spalding, P. Dougherty; Elocution—E. Arnold, P. Hagan, P. Dougherty, J. Perea, F. McGrath, W. A. Widdicombe, T. Nelson, C. Hagan, G. Donnelly, R. Mayer, A. Congar; Music—J. Baker, J. Arentz, J. A Gibbons, A. Sievers, J. P. McHugh, T. Barry, T. Fischel, T. Carroll, J. Montgomery, O. S. Mitchell, F. Singler; Drawing— A K. Schmidt, V. McKinnon.
The name of J. P. Hafner was accidentally omitted from the last of Excellence last week.

—The address delivered on behalf of the Rosary Society on Tuesday was the composition of Miss Hope Russell; that on behalf of the Senior Department that of Miss Mary Ewing.
—Mr. Rudolph Rheinboldt, of Cincinnati, sent four large beautiful hyacinths to his daughter, Miss Sophia, to present to St. Luke’s Studio. The members of the Art Department return thanks to the kind donor.
—The reunion of the advanced French classes in Mother Superior’s study was very lively this week. The week before it had been omitted on account of Mother Superior’s absence, as important business connected with other houses of the Congregation had called her away. To make up for the absence there was a little “surprise feast,” which was pronounced very delightful.	~
—The celebration of the patronal festival of the Assistant Superior and Prefect of Studies was very successful. Very Rev. Father Granger, Very Rev. President Corby, Rev. Father Walsh, Rev. Father L’Etourneau, and Rev. Father Roche, of Notre Dame, and the Rev. Father Shortis, Chaplain of St. Mary’s, and his assistant, Rev. Father Soulnier, honored the occasion with their presence. Professor Lyons and Professor Edwards of the University were also present.
—The subject of the lecture before the St. Cecilians on Wednesday evening embraced the following topics: “The Ecclesiastical Keys, their Foundation and Progress ”; “ The Ambrosian and Gregorian Chaunts, Modes, etc., etc.,” were analyzed and fully explained. The music of Oriental pagan nations was touched upon; also the peculiarities of the Scotch, Irish, Italian, Spanish, French and Swiss music; their national dances, and many historical events in connection with the whole subject.
—The reading at the usual Sunday evening reunion was uncommonly good. “King Robert of Sicily,” by Longfellow, as rendered by Annie Cavenor, may be justly styled as very good. The grace of expression and perfect familiarity with the French language evinced in the reading of “ Dexoument d la Science, pur Augustin Thierry," by Miss Clara Silverthorne, and in that of “ Beaux traits de Pie IX, par Leonce de la Ballaye," as presented by Miss McGrath, was vary creditable to all concerned, as was also the German reading, “ Wer Seine Ettern ehrt und liebt dem geht es wohl. Die goldene Dose. Xach Ghr. ®. Schmidt," by Adelaide Geiser. “ Absalom,” by N. P. Willis, read by Miss Harris, was also very well given.
HoH of Honor.
’ ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.	.
Graduating Class—Misses Genevieve Cooney, Pauline Gaynor, Beatrice Reynolds, Amelia Harris, Elizabeth O’Neill, Mary O’Connor, Anastasia Henneberry, Minerva Spier.
1st Senior Class—Misses Cecilia Boyce, Hope Russell, Bridget Wilson, Emma Lange.
2d Senior Class—Misses Ellen Keenan, Mary Way, Ellen McGrath, Ellen Davis, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Ellen King, Zoe Papin, Clara Silverthorne, Catharine Barrett, Mary Casey, Mary Birch.
3d Senior Class—Misses Emma Shaw, Florence Cregier, Lola Otto, Mary Brown, Thecla Pleins, Julia Burgert, Catharine Lloyd, Anna Cavenor, Mary Sullivan, Mary Wagner, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Hackett, Agues Brown, Elizabeth Sehwass, Delia Cavenor, Harriet Buck, Maria Flatten burg, Ellen Galen, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Adella Gordon, Mary Winston, Alice Morgan, Frances Kingfleld, Adelaide Kirchner, Angela Ewing.
1st Prep. Class—Misses Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Cleary, Mary Loeber, Anna McGrath, Adelaide Geiser, Lucy Chilton.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Mary Mullen, Ellen Kelly, Ellen Thomas, Imogene Richardson, Alice Barnes, Alice Williams, Julia Barnes, Mary White, Matilda Whiteside, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Lambin.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Linda Fox, Mary Hake, Agnes Me-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	509
Kinnis, Laura French, Lottie Van Namee, Lulu Wood, Ellen Hackett, Lorena Ellis, Mary McFadden, Frances Sunderland, Mary Lyons.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.,
1st Latin Class—Miss Genevieve Cooney. _
2d Latin Class—Misses Clara Silverthorne, Maria Plattcn-burg, Mary Luce.
FRENCH CLASSES AND CONVERSATION.
1st Class—Misses Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorne, Ellen Keenan, Bridget Wilson, Hope Russell, Amelia Harris.
2d Div.—Misses Mary O’Connor, Genevieve Cooney, Beatrice Reynolds, Julia Burgert, Anna McGrath.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adelaide Geiser.
3d Class—Misses Zoe Papin, Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary;Brown, Mary Birch, Martha Wagner, Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan, Julia Butts, Ida Fisk.
2d Div.—Misses Fannie Kingfield, Emma Shaw, Mary Danaher, Mary Casey, Linda Fox, Lucy Chilton, Laura French, Mary Mulligan.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Div.—Misses Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Usselman, Elizabeth Walsh.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth O’Neill, Anastasia Henneberry, Annie Reising, Florence Cregier, Catharine Barrett.
3d Class—Misses Mary Way, Cecilia Boyce, Mary Lambin.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen King, Minerva Loeber, Alice Farrell, Charlotte Van Namee, Blanche Parrott.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Bridget Wilson and Thecla Pleins.
1st Class—Misses Clara Silverthorne, Elizabeth Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser.
2d Class—Misses Minerva Spier, Amelia Harris, Ellen Galen, Ellen Keenan, Elizabeth O’Neill.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Mary Usselman, Anastasia Henneberry, Delia Cavenor.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Julia Burgert, Matilda Whiteside.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Farrell, Adella Kirchner, Mary Brown, Emma Lange, Anna McGrath. Elizabeth Walsh, Ellen McGrath.
4th Class—Misses Alice Morgan, Pauline Gaynor, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney, Ellen King.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Winston, Imogene Richardson, Mary Way.
5th Class—Misses Mary White, Catharine Riordan, Florence Cregier, Catharine Barrett, Louisa Papin, Emma Shaw, Anna Cavenor, Matilda Wagner.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Lola Otto, Mary Cleary, Ellen Hackett, Laura Wood, Mary Platteuburg, Cecilia Boyce, Angela Ewing, Henrietta Hersey.	.
6th Class—Misses Ida Fisk, Sophia Rheinboldt, Louisa Schwass, Mary Mulligan, Helena Thomas, Mary Lambin, Mary Casey, Mary Loeber, Linda Fox.
2d Div.—Misses Blanche Parrott, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Ellen Wright, Ellen Kelly, Ellen Mulligan.
7th Class—Misses Agnes McKinnis, Julia Kingsbury, Lorena Ellis, Susan Hamilton, Alice Barnes, Mary Cox.
Sth Class—Miss Mary McFadden.
Harp—Misses Cavenor, Ellen Galen, Lucy Chilton.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Misses Delia Cavenor tmd Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Annie Reising, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Jennie Winston, Agnes Brown, Lola Otto, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Riordan.
2d Div.—Misses Sophia Rheinboldt, Adelaide Geiser, Imogene Richardson.
4th Class—Misses Alice Farrell, Annie Woodin, Mary Winston, Clara Silverthorne, Julia Burgert, Mary Casey, Annie Cavenor.
5th Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Angela Ewing, Mary Hake, Mary Mulliganj Ada Peak, Mary White, Annie McGrath, Nellie McGrath, Nellie Keenan, Henrietta Hersey, Matilda Whiteside.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Class—Misses Harriet Reynolds, Emma Lange, Elizabeth Kirchner, Pauline Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses Matilda Whiteside, Delia Cavenor, Julia Burgert, Sarah Hambleton, Alice Farrell, Marie Platteuburg, Harriet • Buck, Adelaide Kirchner.
4th Class—Misses Laura French, Helena Thomas, Julia Butts, Ellen Mulligan.
5th Class—Misses Lola Otto, Mary Way, Emily Miller, Hope
Russell, Lucy Chilton, Florence Cregier, Minerva Loeber, Anna -Reising, Elizabeth Schwass, Catharine Riordan.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ellen Hackett, Frances Kingfield, Julia Kingsbury, Angela Ewing, Mary Lambin, Agnes McKinnis, Laura French, Lottie Van Namee.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Davis, Harriet Reynolds, • Pauline Gaynor, Sarah Moran, Mary O’Connor, Minerva Spier, Emma Lange.
4th Class—Miss Matilda Whiteside.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Beatrice Reynolds, Pauline Gaynor, Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Davis, Delia Cavenor.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL NEEDLE-WORK.
1st Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Usselman, Mary Winston, Genevieve Winston, Alice Farrell, Mary Luce, Bridget Wilson, Minerva Spier.
2d Div.—Misses Blanche Parrott, Adella Gordon, Catharine Barrett, Mary White, Sophia Rheinboldt, Catharine Lloyd, Ellen Thomas, Ellen Davis.
2d Class—Miss Harriet Buck.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRESS-MAKING AND PLAIN SEWING.
Misses Mary Sullivan, Cecilia Boyce, .Elizabeth Schwass, Blanche Thompson.
GENERAL SEWING. CLASS.
Misses Ellen Keenan, Mary Birch, Emma Shaw, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Amelia Miller, Marcia Peak.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Genevieve Cooney, Anastasia Henneberry, Elizabeth O’Neill, Minerva Spier, Mary O’Connor, Anna Reising, Beatrice Reynolds, Hope Russell, Mary R. Ewing, Sarah Moran, Cecilia Boyce, Bridget Wilson, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorne, Blanche Thompson, Mary Way, Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Ellen King, Z >e Papin, Anna Maloney, Catharine Riordan, Lola Otto, Mary Brown, Elizabeth Schwass, Ellen Galen, Alice Farrell, Adella Gordon, Genevieve and Mary Winston, Delia Cavenor, Sophia Rheinboldt, Margaret Hayes, Mary Cleary, Henrietta Hersey, Mary Mullen, Ellen Kelly, Alice Barnes, Alice Williams 100 par excellence. Misses Amelia Harris, Pauline Gaynor, Emma Lange, Ellen Keenan, Elizabeth Keena, Catharine Barrett, Emma Shaw, Maria Platteuburg, Julia Burgert, Catharine Lloyd, Anna Cavenor, Mary Loeber, Julia Barnes, Matilda Whiteside.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Frances Kingfield, Annie McGrath, Julia Kingsbury, Linda Fox, Mary Hake. Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Ivers, Alice King, Bridget and Teresa Haney, 100 par excellence. Misses Adelaide Geiser, Mary Lambin, Ellen Hackett.	.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into t he regular course of Studies.	'
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.	.	’
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.	-
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Name P. 0., Ind.
510
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Chicago, B. I. & Pacific.
. Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri, This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the	-
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, comer Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
’ Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m Peru accommodation.............   5	00 p.m. 9 35 a.m
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent..
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOGRAPHER, Comer Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH BTHsTZD, USTTDIA-TTA-
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
■	TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side).
On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 p.m.	9.00 AM.	1.50 p.m.	6-00 AM.
Rneh aster			12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,						3.10 AM.	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orryille,							446 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
’MAnsfifilfT _		.		7.00 “ .	4.40 “	9.20 “	311 “
Crestline,....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline		....Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,................		9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,					10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,			1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plvmnnth			3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,			7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		No. 4. Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,			9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 P.M.	
Plvmnnth			2.46 am.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
FL Wayne,					6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,.				8.55 “	405 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest.				10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,....	... Arrive	1L45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “	
Crestline		....Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,.............		12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,.... ...........		2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “•	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.05 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rnehftfiter				6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 «	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Perk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	.
FjB. XYEBS, G. F. & T. A.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, 187 7.
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		4.35 p. m 7.10 “ 8.10 “	12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ 10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City		8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.		11.10 A. M. 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No.4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis....	5.30 P. M.	4.10 A. M.	9.10 A. M.
“ Kokomo		2.55 “	1.50 “	6.33	“
Ar. Peru		1.50 “	12.38 “	5.37	“
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. M. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. M.	12.33 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 8.50 “ 8.05 “	
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
A NEW SYSTEM OF . German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FR. PUSTET, 52 Barclay street, NEW YORK, ana 204 Vine street, CiNClfflATi.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IJSrTDIJLTSTJL-
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the • City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.	'
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years.. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Pull particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t., "	Notre Dame, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	511
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 23 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 pm; Cleveland 10 10 pm; Buffalo, lam.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 210 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
Q 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a m; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago, 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Kaff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS:
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Grouudhoggery, Calendars, The Months—description, etc.,
January,	'
February,
March,
April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December, The Two Rules,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women,
Pio Nono,
A View of Astrology,
Night Scene,
The Letter Q,
In October,
Silent Letters, , St. Augustine’s Prayer.
The Duty of our Young Men,
Over the Leaves,
Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She?
Sonnet,
Mirabeau the Man,
Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella, Aerolites.
. Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
Address, .	J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Ind.; or, The Scholastic Printing- Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
zpjvtzrjoik: shickey,
pr.orniETOR of the
NOTRE DAME AND ST, MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions._
P. S HICKEY.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo’, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and. Texas Fast Ex.-ria
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J.C.McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches* and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Dlinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSEj’WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets. ‘ For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
TYPE FOUNDERS,
CHICAGO,
Have the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from best quality of metal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
Tire Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse & Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.	jan 5-3m
512	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN «fc HARYEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL, [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
mHOMAS K. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FADi'NTIVG & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of T4], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN F. McHU GrH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.	"
McBRIDE «fc MZIUIL<A.RR (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLIAM J. CL ARKE (of ’74). Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES	O’REILLY—of ’69.—Attorney at Law,
527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN T>. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦MaU	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson.... Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 28 “ 10 45 “ 12 35 p.m 3 45 “ 6 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 40 p.m 4 05 “ 6 30 “	3 45 p.m 6 20 “ 8 14 “ 10 00 “ 5 20 a.m	5 15 p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m 11 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 00 “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 •*	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	4 00 a.m 6 10 “ 7 50 “ 10 30 “	9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 2 25 a m 12 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and Soixtti Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p m.
“ N. Dame— 8 52 - . 6 38 *•
Ar. Niles— 9 25 •*	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m
“ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHO R J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
■Weekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, pub isted weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
,	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A.	MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74> $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpIIE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Comer of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Bl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I». FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
Qp? CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, led.
Qp' CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
.	J. A. Lyons,
’	Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “ Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the speci es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The specie's number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, ardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens	■ 25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments		$ 50	$1	$1 50	$ 1	$ 2	$ 3
Students’ size, larger		1 50	3	6	5	10	25
Amateur’s size, 2*4 in.x 1*4....				10	25	50
High School or Acad, size,2*4x314 in. shelf specimens				25	50	100
College size, 3*4x6 in., shelf specimens						500	100	3 f0
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, Iff. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy, *
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, lafe Member of the Philadelphia Academy of natural Scie-encet and of the American Museum of natural History, Central Part, new York.